Do snails go to high areas because they know they are going to die - 14 Apr 16

Three minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. A nice tweet here from shaky James. Why is your news leading on Nigel Farage's response to Jeremy Corbyn's speech rather than Jeremy Corbyn's speech shaking? My friend? I have absolutely no idea whatsoever, but I'll try and find out for you after the program. Astonishing. Absolutely astonishing. How can the headline be. Here's what one man thinks about another man's speech when we haven't actually heard the headline of what the speech is about. I tell you, sometimes I go away for two weeks back here and they've painted all the walls purple. It's four minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour. James O'Brien on LBC, where we will now, I hope, find a little bit of light relief. You know how it works by now. If you've got a question and it needs an answer, then ring me on zero 345-606-0973 if you want a little promise, a little guarantee by 01:00 today you will know more than you do now. Okay, that's the deal. I'll also give you a belly laugh between now and then. I've got a question. Inspired by my holiday, but misses O'Brien felt it wouldn't be appropriate to put it on mystery. My seven year old thinks that I should. I'd very, very rarely get my own questions up on the board, but here's one. Why? Why have british lavatories evolved not to include any form of hose pipe or b Day? So in Southeast Asia for a holiday and there's a pipe next to every posh toilet. Why are british lavatory. I don't. I'll take that under advisement. I'll let you decide whether that should get on the board or not. And remember, someone's supposed to ring in and ask what the origin of the word totty is. But we're only allowed one origin of the word story per week, so we'll have to wait and see whether that is going to be the 10 345-606-0973 is the number to call if you've got a question. Let me explain how it works. For those of you unlucky enough not to be familiar with the feature already, the way it works is you have nestling burrowing somewhere in the back of your mind a question to which you have been thus far unable to find the answer. It may be a who, a why, a what, a wherefore. Why do we do that? Where does that come from? When that happens? Why does that happen? What's the origin? This? Where's that? Where's this? Where's that? Somebody listening to this programme will know the answer to that question and if you're lucky, they'll ring in and tell you. So if you've got a question that needs an answer, if it's dull, if it's about motoring or something similar to that, then you probably won't get on the board. If it's repetitious, if Victoria or Caroline or I can remember that we've dealt with this question in the relatively recent past, then we will politely invite you to move along as well. But the simple rule is, if we think other people will be interested in the answer to the question that you asked, then it will get on the board. Okay. Zero. 345-606-0973 let's start with Dave, who's in Lewisham. Dave, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question, actually, Dave, I've been off for a fortnight. This is the first mystery hour in three weeks. I didn't forget anything in the introduction, did I, then? No, you didn't. It's brilliant, as usual. Carry on, mate. Right. I'm a window cleaner, James, and when I get up on. Sometimes on the second floor story, doing UPVC windows, you find snails right at the very top corner of the windows. Snails. Snails, yeah. And they. Yeah, they go out there and they die. And when you take them off, they just. They just, like, completely dried out. They die out there. And my question is, if you go over tonight, you have a look at your. If you have your windows clean regularly, you might not notice it because they're in. The cleaners probably got rid of them, but if you have a look, they climb up the UPVC and even on, you know, your french doors and things, and they climb up into the corners and they die. And I wondered, was it something to do with, like you say the elephants go to the graveyard when they know they're going to die. Do snails go up because they know they're going to die? Or have they actually got no sense of direction and sense of. And it's only. It's only the second floor windows you notice? No, no, no, they do. They do the first floor as well. But what I'm saying is they get right up. So, I mean, that's a long way to go with no vegetation, and they keep going in that one direction until they get right to the very top and then they just stay there because they've got no vegetation. That's what they're programmed to do is they keep moving until they find vegetation and the window, because it doesn't have any. Kills them. No. Yeah, but why do they keep going up? I mean, you know, snails. You think they would. Well, if there was vegetation in the way, they wouldn't, but that's just because it's a straight surface. There's no. There's no obstacle on it. Yeah, but you think they'd get to know that they're going actually up in the air rather than bit down where the vegetation is, wouldn't you? So in a sentence, why do snails climb up windows and die? Yeah. Is it to do with, like the, you know, the elephants graveyard scenario? Is it to do with. They've got no sense of where the vegetation is? Don't overthink it. It's not. It's not going to be elephants. I don't know, actually. Can they not smell vegetation? This is what you should have rung in with. We've been on much thicker ice that can snail smell. Yeah. Have they got no conception of where their vegetation is? Smell of garlic, usually. Right. So why do snails climb up windows and die? Yeah, basically. I can't go. I can't put any supplementaries in. Dave, you know how it works. So could do a PhD thesis on this. How do you know they're dead and not just resting? Because I take them off and they're completely dried out. Oh, dried out snails stuck to your window. And that's why you need people like Dave. You're not gonna let me down. Well, it's not me, is. It's not up to me whether you get let down or not. It's up to everybody else listening. There's another good reason why you should hire professional window cleaner like Dave to do your windows. Because you might not, you know, you might not be able to reach the snails. Removing the snails that other window cleaning regimes cannot reach. David Lewisham. Thank you. Nine after twelve, Epsom, Patricia. Question or answer a question? Carry on. I just wondered what happens to all the valuable bits and pieces that go down the drains and into the sewers? Is there a sewer? Lost property office. The reason I ask is that I lost a bracelet recently and it's occurred to me it might have gone down there. And, I mean, not that I'd expect to get it, but I just wondered whether they do deal with those valuable items in any way. I can't imagine you'd be able. Because, I mean, you'd never be able to establish. I realized I would never get it. Back. But I just wondered when they gather all those bits up because they. Scott, it's a perk for the sewage workers. It's a perch for this. It's a perk for the sewage workers, surely, wouldn't you have thought so? I mean, have you ever seen a fat burger, Patricia? I said, have you ever seen a fat burglar, Patricia? No. A Fatberg on the Leicester Square can be the size of a mini. Yeah, I have seen them doing it on the teleporter. So these poor men go down there with their power hoses to dismantle fatbergs, and if they happen to find your bracelet, they pop it in their pocket, they take it home, they give it a ring and they give it to misses. Misses Fatberg. Buster. I don't know. I don't know. I read recently that if you something about gold dust, there's some scientific process where. No, I'll shut up now. We'll just find out what happens to valuables that get dropped down the drain. Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Stay away from those fat bugs. Twelve after ten minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call. James is in. Steven is James. Question or answer? Oh, hi there, James. Yeah, I lost my temper a bit in the last, though. It's not a good look, I'm trying to. I'm trying to grow out of that, mate. I think it's, you know, I'm 44 now. Gotta let it go. So basically, November, this phone line is not good enough for banter. I'll come back to you in a minute. It's no good me being all open and honest and vulnerable like that. If you can't hear me and come back immediately to pat me on the back and go, it's all right, James, take it easy. Les is in Solihull. Les, question or answer? Oh, I've got a question. Okay, Les. Okay. Well, everyone knows that the wife of the US president is called the first lady. I was waiting for you to say, but anyway, the answer is first lady. Everyone knows that. So my question is, what if Misses Clinton wins? What is her husband going to be called? Mister President. Well, he won't be president. No, will he? He's called Mister president now. Less. Oh, he is. That is very true. That is true. So they'll still call him Mister president, you think? Oh, yeah. Why would they stop? Oh, I don't know. And what is your qualifications? Common sense. Okay, fair enough. All right, Potty is called Potty because it's made of pot, by the way. Same as teapot. The question is about Totty. Oh, Totti. I thought you said potty. No, because you were talking about toilets. How's this working out for you, Les? Okay, but you were talking about toilets there, weren't you? And potty. I thought you said no. Totty. Totty. Oh, I don't know. What's a totty? Well, that's what I asked. Oh, I see. I've never heard of it. You've never heard of Totti? About the MP who said to the Spectator journalist, I want to talk to the Tottie. Oh, I see. We spent the first hour of the program talking about it today, Les. It's just in all the newspapers. It's dominating the social media chatter sphere. I wasn't tuned in then. So how's Soley Hill today? What's the weather like in Soli Hill? It's cloudy. Cloudy, yeah. There you go. We learned something in the end. Sure. For each other. Twelve after twelve. Okay. James is in Stevenage. James, back to you. Hello. Sorry, mate. That's right. Back in November you said that there was a great story behind why the founder of Twitter used the symbol to create handles. Did I? But you never told. Answer. Yeah. Mate, you can't do this. I've got enough trouble remembering what I said yesterday. You can't pull me up on stuff I said back in November. You must still remember the story if it was good enough for you to tell the nation. I can't. I can't. I don't even remember saying it, that it was a good story, but. So can I ask? I can't tell you. I'll put it out. So. Oh, I do know why. It's. No, it's a rubbish story. I've obviously over egged it and I did provide the answer. You obviously lost the signal or something. Or you drove through a tunnel. Yeah, maybe, yeah. Oh, well, I've been dying to know ever since then. I can't google it anyway. Why did they use the app symbol on Twitter? No, why the founder of CEO decided to use that symbol in the first place. Yeah, that's the same thing. Why do they use the symbol on Twitter? It would have been the person that decided it. Reason I don't feel this mystery error started. Well, James, I thought it was a great question. Let's not beat about the bush. Les was a bloody disaster, wasn't he? The last fella? He really was. And I started off being all cross about our ludicrous news headline, which probably doesn't have any place in mystery hour anyway. And now I'm just confused about what you're saying to me. Brilliant. Well, that's gone well. Yeah. Should we start again after quarter past? But now. But then I've got the snails and the valuables questions. They're really good. Really quickly, mate. Yeah. Me and my friend Rob listen to your podcast every Tuesday night on a drive. Can you say hello to rob for me? No, I can't. Oh, sorry, Rob. All right, yeah, okay, mate. Take care. Don't go yet. Okay? I can't do this on my own. I can't plumb these depths of mediocrity alone. James, we'll wait for the news. Sorry, we've got a minute left. I've got 17 seconds where I am. 17 seconds. Yeah. Okay. What can we do in the room? I've got a great idea, you know. Do you know what I'm going to do in the remaining 17 seconds? Twelve. 1110. Do you know what I'm going to do? Hi, Rob. Yes, love you. It's 1215 from the LBC Travel center on LBC. So 18 minutes after twelve. It's gone a bit meta this week. Mystery era. I think we'll run with it, won't we? Here's some of your thoughts so far. James, you're getting very gervaise or Stuart Lee esque this week. The show's at its best when it's a shambles smoking. Sparky takes a different view, he writes, this is the worst mystery hour ever. James, it's just sad and stilted. Get a grip, mate. Well, Abu takes a different view. He writes. James, the past 15 minutes have been brilliant. It's had me in stitches. I never go on Twitter, but I had to let you know. Naz writes, it's all gone a bit nuts today, James, maybe you should have a nutty hour instead. And Lane writes, there was a poetic air of beautiful melancholy to the dejected Les from Solly Hole. I know what you mean. And Hussein writes, this is the most incredible mystery hour ever. Ryan, listening to you today, it's genuinely Alan Partridge. Like, at times, we're not talking about potty. And so it goes on. You're not supposed to be providing a meta criticism of mystery hour. You're not supposed. What do they call it? You're not supposed to be live blogging mystery hour, you prunes. You're supposed to be joining in with your mysteries and your answers, which currently include these. Why do snails climb up windows? Especially when it leads? According to Dave and Lewisham to their certain death. What happens to valuables that you drop down the toilet? Well done to Lino for suggesting there should be a lost property office. Office. Lost property office. No. All right. And we're going to give Les in Solihull another bite of the cherry. So if a female president was elected in America who wasn't married to a former president, what would he be called? I'm told in Australia it's the first bloke, but that could be a joke. 90 minutes after twelve is the time. If you can answer those or you've got a question of your own, you know what to do. Luke's in pool. Luke, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Good man. Carry on to the lost property. Valuables in the sewer. Question. Oh, yeah, yeah. It's not quite as black as white as black and white, as you said, because it can depend if you've got a small catchment, if you imagine a cul de sac with, say, five houses on it and all their sewage drains to a small pumping station, and then that goes off to the main network. There are cases where people have rung in and said, oh, I've lost this down the toilet. Can they check? And then, yes, you might get lucky if you find it in the pumping station, because obviously if it's a heavy metal, it will probably sink to the bottom. Yes. Or it may get caught in a sewer. And because it's only a small sewer with very little flow in it, it's likely that you might find it caught up in a manhole or something. If you're in a city on a major network, chances are it's never going to appear again. And if it does, like you said, it will be some guy cleaning a sewer in 20 years. Time goes, oh, brilliant. Occasionally you see them at treatment works on the actual screens, you know, the mechanical screens that take out some of the larger debris and the guys might, if they're lucky, again, spot it. And then you do see them up on the side next to the screen sometimes, like watches and rings and things like that. What happens to that? It just stays there, to be honest. No one really wants it. No. What if it was, surely. What if it was a Rolex? If it's a Rolex, then, yeah, I'd have it. I mean, what are the rules? Are you supposed to hand it in because you're obviously working? There's no rules. There's no rules, really? No, not. Not officially. If someone generally. If someone rings in and says, look, I live in Bournemouth or pool and I've lost this bracelet. You know, if anyone spots it, can you. Can you let me know? I mean, we would probably answer and say that it's not likely that we'll ever find it, to be honest, because it isn't. Have you ever had a satisfied customer? No, I was trying to say I did personally go and look for something once. That's where I gave you the analogy from the pumping station. Yes. And we didn't find it, unfortunately. Well, we were quite. We thought we were going to, because we knew it was a small catchment and we knew that we had a good chance and it was. It was a. It was, yeah, quite a sad thing. But it was a wedding ring that a woman had lost and her husband had died the year before, something like that. So we thought, well, make the effort on this one. But no, we didn't find it, unfortunately. So, I mean, the answer to the original question is not a lot really happens. You maybe get lucky if you find someone as kind and considerate as Luke. And he's working. He's on shift that day. They might have a bit of a rummage for you, but otherwise. I mean, the main sewers, the big sewers under the west End of London that you can walk through, presumably, if people. People have occasionally slipped a golden ring into their pocket down there and stuff like that. Well, I'm sure they have, yeah. And if it's anything that's got a. You know, if you lost a wallet or something like that, but you're not going to lose a wallet down a toilet, generally, but if you've got a name and address for something, then of course you'd always seek to try and get it back to the people. But that's, you know, so rare that that would ever happen because it has to go down a drain into an actual sewer. So, yeah, it's not. Sorry, it's not a conclusive answer, but it is a conclusive answer. I mean. Now I just need to ask you what your qualifications are, although we already know. Yeah. 18 years in the sewage and water treatment industry, currently working for a water company in the southwest. Can't say further than that. No. There you go. Round of applause. That's made my day. That's made mine as well. No, thank you, Luke. Great work. 22 after twelve. See, we're back. We're fighting back. Mystery hours. It's a resurrection time. Dean's in Luton. Dean, question or answer? Question, please. Yes, it's a question from my wife. She wants to know whether a baby can break any bones. While they're in the room. Oh, lord. I know. It's not the best. We've gone off on a bit of a weird one this week because I've been off for a couple of weeks. Mystery hour is a slightly different mood from the. From the rest of the output on that. And I just thought we were sort of getting it back upbeat, then getting it all cheerful and getting things nice, and you find him with absolutely heartbreaking. I know. I mean. I don't know. I mean, she's, um. She's pregnant, right, with, uh, her second. And she's. What's she planning on doing? What's she worried about? I see. Was she gonna start doing. I mean, what. Why does she want to know? I don't know. I said. I said, it's a strange question. And I mentioned your show and I said, well, I'll ask. And she was like, yeah, please do. And I was like, I don't think they can. I think any. Yeah, I don't. I can't see how a baby can. But she. She reckons she wants to know. All right, well, we'll find out for her, goodness knows. I mean, she's. She's, you know, a bit emotional at the moment. Possibly. Pregnancy can. Can have an effect upon your emotional equilibrium, can't it? So can a baby break bones in the womb? I. All right, thanks for that, Dean. Next week, mate. Keep your phone in your pocket, eh? I will. Thank you. Joe Sinhalo. Joe. Question or answer? It's a question, mate. Go on, Joe. I want to know what the odds are of finding a four leaf clover. Why? Well, I was laying on the field last year with my dog and there was a bed of clovers in front of me, and I had a rummage and gave up. I thought, I wonder what the odds are of actually finding one. How would you know? I mean, you'd have to. I just. You'd have to count millions. You'd have to what? This mystery house is what this is all for. Is it, though? Is this an appropriate mystery? What are the odds of finding a fall if. It depends where you are, doesn't it? I mean, some fields might have a preponderance of four leaf clovers. There might be parts of the world where four leaf clovers are coming out of the ground like there's no tomorrow. Other parts of the world where you don't see one for decades. I want to know, though, what field were you in? In a field in Harlow. A field in Harlow? Whereabouts in Harlow? It was Nicholsfield. All right. So what are the odds of finding a four leaf clover in a field in Nicholsfield? I think. Well, you could do. You could ask that one or any. I don't know. Why would there be odds? Right. We'll find out. Okay. Seriously? Thank you. That's my pleasure. Thank you. Ramos is in borough. Ramos, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Ramos. My question is, is porridge a cereal? Yes. Are you sure? Even after it's cooked? If it's changed state. Now it comes from a cereal husk. But if that gets cooked in a change of state, what defines cereal? Define cereal, then that is the problem. Is it eaten raw with milk? You mean a breakfast cereal rather than a cereal crop? Yes. Yes, exactly. Now, what's happened is, obviously, it was also eaten in Scotland throughout the day as part of the staple diet. So it wasn't classically a breakfast cereal. It wasn't a cereal, but I sometimes have a bowl of all bran at bedtime. Ramos, it doesn't undermine the status of all bran as a cereal? No, absolutely not. Absolutely not. But would it typically be eaten at breakfast time, or what actually classes as a cereal? And is it actually a state that it's in? And basically, if it cooks, if it's cooked, does it change its state? Does it actually become less of a cereal? Essentially. Would you need to define cereal, though? Absolutely. I don't know what a cereal is. Well, then you can't get an answer. You need to denote, according to the criteria, cereal. The definition of cereal will be in the eye of the beholder or the bowl holder, and. Thank you. And until you've got the criteria for defining cereal, you can't really answer the question of whether porridge is a cereal or not, because you could say anything that comes in a cardboard box and is vaguely sort of crop based, is a breakfast cereal. So everything from sugar puffs to porridge, whether you add hot milk or cold milk, doesn't really matter, should it? Can't be in the eye of beholder, though. It's in the eye of the bowl holder. But surely there must be more criteria than that if we actually put it down to an educated person. Is it a serial because it comes from. Well, you say an educated person. I'll take an answer from anybody with a scottish accent. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've actually had the debate with somebody from Scotland, too, and it kind of went around in circles, but really. So this is an area of abiding interest for you, Ramos? It is, actually. It's. Can I ask why? Why? Why again and again, why it was a bit of a strange conversation that we had at work, and all of a sudden we were playing, having a bit of play on words and one of the mentions actually had a serial as a connotation. I thought it was a bit too far. And yeah, it was from breakfast with the play on word on cereal. And it kind of all just led on and we're kind of like, well, is cereal actually. Is porridge. Can you actually stretch it? Yeah. Is porridge actually a cereal, a breakfast cereal, a breakfast cereal, or is it actually close to something else once it's. I assume that the cereal definition for breakfast comes from the cereal crop definition, in which case the fact that it's made of oats probably does render it as cereal. But I'm not scottish, so I'm not allowed to say thank you. Ramos. Let's go from borough to romford. Gary is in Romford. Question or answer? Gary is an answer. James. Yes. To the question about what would the husband of a female president be called? Yes, the answers are the first gentleman. Qualifications. I studied american politics, but also if you read any book with a fictional female president, they all use that convention. It makes sense, doesn't it? First lady, first gentleman. It won't apply to Bill Clinton because he will be the first gentleman, but still addressed as mister president. If Hillary wins, of course. Yeah, that's correct. Round of applause for Gary. 29 minutes after twelve questions that still need answers. Can a baby break bones in the womb? Sorry about that question. Dean's wife is currently pregnant and she's got a lot on her mind and so we thought we'd try and help her out, but obviously it's not very cheery territory. We've done the valuables. Why do snails climb up windows and die? What are the odds of finding a four leaf clover? And is porridge a cereal? If you want to add to the list of questions currently awaiting answers 0345-6060 973 is the number that you need. You can tweet and email me. I might read them out, but no guarantees. Those are the only questions I've got on the board. If you can think of any that have already been asked and that I've missed, then you know what to do. In the meantime, if you've got a question that you want to ask, or you can answer any of the ones that we've just reminded you of. Zero. 345-606-0973 Dear James, every week you say that by the end of mystery hour I would have had at least one belly laugh so far. Maybe because I'm a miserable sod. That hasn't been the case. But today I've got to be honest. You've got me. That last caller's question was outstanding. I don't know which one you mean, but any satisfied customer is all right by me. Here's Eleanor notes with the headlines. Labor leader Jeremy Corbyn has insisted on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve. Mystery act continues. Why do snails climb up windows and die? Can a baby break its bones in the womb? What are the odds of finding a four leaf clover in a field in Essex? And is porridge a breakfast cereal? What is a cereal? What's a breakfast cereal? Defined cereal. The golden Graham cereals. Yeah, apparently they are. They're in the cereal aisle. Porridge is in the cereal aisle. But is it a cereal? Rob's in, uh, traorkee. Did I say that right, Rob? Yes. Yeah, triokey. That's nice. In South Wales. Well, what have you got for me? Question or an answer? Nice question. Yes. Okay. Um. Yeah, I been thinking about this question in the meantime and I think it's giving me a headache now. Enough. Don't worry, we'll help. Yeah. If soy Rose and Cliffy Rose and keeps on working its magic over the next millions and millions of years, is the UK going to disappear eventually? Totally. What, you mean because of rising sea levels? No, not so much rising sea levels. Erosion. Coastal erosion. Just coastal erosion because obviously we lose in feet on meters. Of course. Of course. Every year is eventually going to meet in the middle and think, ah, okay, that's nice. Nice ocean left. That's it. I'd say your question when. Not so much when is it, like, would it happen or would the erosion and subsequent landslides. Exciting. That's going to create another landmass, but of a different. Because of all of the debris would go into the sea and then be deposited somewhere else on another beach and then. Yeah. Where would they end up with current? I don't know. I need the question. This is arguably the best question of the week, Rob, but I need it. I think we both need to focus in a little more on it. We need to get it in. Will Britain eventually disappear due to coastal erosion? Yes, totally disappear. It's going to change shape. It all does change constantly. Changing shape is changing shape as we speak. It's changed shape since you came on the air. Yes, absolutely. It's probably God depressed. No, mate, you're raising the tone, trust me. So we don't need a worm, we just need to know whether. I would have thought the answer was yes. Wouldn't you? Sort of. I don't know. Because it's been around for quite a long time and it hasn't gone yet. No, I know, but we're talking in the realms of theory. So it could be millennia hence. It could be millions of years, theoretically. Is, if here's an apple, if I take a bite out of that apple, will the apple one day disappear? If I keep biting? The answer is yes, isn't it? Well, yes, that's right. It's got to be the same principle. It's just a really big apple and really small teeth. I don't know. I don't know. Because then, you know, if you drop a seed on the floor, the apple is going to grow back up again eventually, isn't it? So we'll one apple, the apple will disappear. There might be another apple growing somewhere as a result of your self fertilized deposit. But the apple that you're eating at the beginning of this conversation, they've just taken that will disappear. So it's probably. I don't know who can answer it? A geologist? Yeah, I'd imagine so. I mean, I'm gonna say more land masses getting shoved up with volcanic activity all the time. But this is true. Landmass, that's not. That's not Britain as it is now. That's not. As new landmass. Yes. Yeah. But the country as it stands with its current borders, those borders are going to get smaller and smaller and smaller until eventually they disappear. I don't know. I like the question. Um. Why do you want to know, Rob? Well, I mean, are you thinking of buying a place? It's just what they thought about. And we know we're quite high up in the wrong, so we'd probably be the last ones to go. I see. So you've got your fingers crossed that with your property prices are going to go through the roof. It'll be the new night's bridge. It's going to be me and 2 million sheep in one field looking for Paulie clovers. Oh, beautiful, Rob. Thank you. We'll try and get you an answer. 1237 is the time. Mark is in Northampton. Very national mystery out today. Although minus. Been in touch from her yacht in Florida, complaining. So the international flavour, it's not a wind up. He really does want to know what the definition of cereal is. Mohnie, Mark's in Northampton. Mark, question or answer? I'll have an answer. Come on, then. It's an answer to the snail question. Insects suffer from diseases just like any other animal, and these are fungal, bacterial or viral in origin, collectively known as entomopathogens. Now, fungal entomopathogens reproduce via spores. Are you reading this? No, no, not at all. You're good. Hang on, hang on. Wait there, Mark, because I've been in a funny mood today, I'm going to give you a round of applause just for excellent use of long words. Now, carry on with the rest of your answer. Yes, well, thank you for the use of long words thing. I'm glad it's not a flocky, rocky near pillification. Beautifully done. Beautifully done, yes. So the fungal ends, pathogens reproduce vias spores, and one of the interesting things they can do is actually reprogram the insects to crawl up to a very high place, and then when the insect dies, the spores are sent out on the wind to infect new animal, new insects. So if you ever see a aphid or a fly that's stuck to the end of a very long blade of grass that's possibly killed by an entomopathogen, and it's a very high likelihood that that's the case with the snails. Shut the front door. Well, yes, it's a marvel. Marvelous world out there. Qualifications? Professional horticulturalist and amateur entomologist. But I used to be a biological control consultant, which meant I would advise growers how to use predatory insects instead of insecticide pesticides. So we're in the realms of speculation or theory when we say it's probably the same principle happening to snails. It is theory with speculation, but I'd say it's highly likely. What do you call someone who studies snails? Um, don't know. Nor do I. Just this insect. But maybe a mollusculologist? Molochologist. Molluscologist. I'm going to give you another round of applause, but I. And I'm going to go definitive on this. But if someone does ring in with a challenge. Yeah, see, someone's already texted, say snails are not insects. We know that. Yes, we said, but it's probably the answer, because it's certainly Occam's razor would provide your answer, but whether or not anybody challenges it, we'll have to wait and see. In the meantime, have another one. Mark. Seriously, two for one. How about that? Thank you very much. There you go. Laura is in Kingston. Laura, question or answer a question? Go on. Hi, James. I've spoken to you once before on much more serious subject. You were really kind to me, so please don't. I can't be rude to someone on miss I had a bad hour in the last hour. I got crossed with one lady. I feel terrible about it. Kind this time as well. Okay. I was glad to hear the snail answer because I love snails. I'm a bit of a creature lover. And my question is this, where it sounds a bit nutty if you're not a creature lover, often, if I'm refilling the bird's water bowl or whatever, if I see a dead fly or a fly that looks like it's struggling, I will pick it up and I will spend a long time breathing on it. But the breathing, I can variate the temperature. And my question is, I often think, because I'm saving them, I have time to think about it. But if you hold your. If you try this, don't really. You will. But if you put your mouth in a position quite. Your lips quite close together as if you're going into a blow, you're going to blow some air out. If you breathe, it comes out warm. So keep your mouth the same size. If you breathe, it comes out warm. If you blow, it comes out cold. Yes. No matter whether you change the veracity of the, you know, the speed of which you're blowing or breathing. But I can variate it so I don't have to pose the question. Nor do I. I've got no idea. This is. I'm being nice. I know I'm being nice. I'm being nice, but I've got no idea what you're talking about. Is that there were flies involved. Try it. Go on. No, there's just creatures in general that need a bit of breath. I don't, you know, give them a kiss of life or anything. But that would be weird if you've. If we. Yeah, I think they call the authorities. But anyway, um. So if you're just try. If you try it. Hold your mouth in one. If you go. Yeah. As a breath. Yeah. Breath is hot. Blow is cold. Yeah. I. You can also. You can. You want to know why? Do you want to know why? Yes. I want to know whether I can help you. It's, it's not, it's not. You're focusing on what's coming out of your mouth because really you should be focusing upon what the breath is hitting because it's the chill factor of what you're blowing on. That's cold. If you hold your hand in front, you hold your hand in front. Go. That's hot. The blow that cold. No. Hold your hand in front. Now hold your. No, no, Laura, hold your hand in front. Now. Yeah, yeah. And purse your lips as if you were doing a hard blow and do it really, really, really gentle on. So barely blow at all. Got it. Yes, but that's what I mean. That's still warm. That's still warm. Maybe you can change, like, a tap, the hot water. You can change the temperature by. The more you blow, the colder it gets. But that's because the wind chill on your skin. So your skin is warm and you've blown on it, so it's cooling down. And the harder you blow, the faster it cools down and the cooler it becomes. Ergo, it's not about the temperature of the gas coming out of your mouth. It's about what it's doing to the skin. The breath that you're breathing onto the skin is colder than your skin, than your body temperature, right. So even if you do a really hard breath, it's gonna be still warm if your mouth's really wide open. Yes. No. No, because it's the same. I can waste your time now, but. But I just been. One of those weeks. Don't worry. Laura, seriously, I don't even think this is the worst bit. Okay, I hope not. So, in a sentence, your question is, when I breathe. No, I'm not even there. I'm not even there now, after all these hours. You know what? The only reason I called is because of snails. And I thought, right, maybe it's gonna be a creature lover, you know? Yeah. I wanted to pose this, but I knew how to. You should have thought what the question was in your own mind before you rang into. No, I know, I should. I've wasted it now. You haven't wasted it. You haven't wasted someone listening. Might, by a process of intellectual osmosis, have actually understood what question you were trying to ask. But that person. I got to be honest with you. That person. That person is not me, Laura. I know. I know. But. Yes, and so anybody out there. Oh, God. I'm gonna send that to you again. Snails, please. Oh, that. Yes. They just were the snails. We've done the snails. We've done the snails. They've got. They've got. Okay, but I was just going to say, please don't tread on them. When it rains and they go onto the pavement, don't avoid them. Are you a Buddhist? Are you a Buddhist? I'm not. I just. A creature lover. Oh, good for you. We need more creature lovers. Where would we be without them? Okay, so, breathing and something. All right, if you know the answer to that. Zero. 345-606-0973 Sharon's in Amersham. Sharon, how we doing? Yes. Good, thank you. Question or answer? Answer. Are you in a swimming pool at the moment or have you got your head in a bin? It's all very echoey. No, just where I'm working. Okay, carry on. Yes, it's an answer. My son was born with a broken clavicle. Do you know what's happened now, Sharon? Someone's just tuned in, literally, in the last 30 seconds. Probably some, I don't know, some international radio looking to hire the new breakfast show host of some massive New York station who's been told. Check out this guy on LBC. He's really good. He really cuts to the heart of the matter. And they've just turned on the radio and they've heard someone ring in to say, my son was born with a broken clavicle. I was thinking, what the hell is going on? What? What? Yes, but it's a happy story. He's 20 years old and fully recovered. So in answer to Dean in Lewton's wife's pregnant wife's question. Yes, babies in the womb can break their bones, but there's no necessary cause for concern. Do you know how your boy broke his clavicle while he was inside you? No, they couldn't really tell me. Is the clavicle the collarbone? Yes. Yes. They couldn't really tell me. It could have been during their birth process. He was just under nine pounds, so a fairly large baby. But it wasn't a traumatic birth at all. It was very quick. So really they were non committal, really. It could have been. Could have happened on the way out. Could have happened on the way out. But he didn't, you know, he didn't get stuck. There was no shoulder issues. And he was born very quickly. But, yes, it could have happened on the way out, but they couldn't. They couldn't confirm to me when it happened. It's a pretty definitive answer, given that you gave birth to a boy with a broken bone and you're answering the question of whether it's possible to break a bone in the womb. Yes, I think I probably am. That's about as definitive as it's possible to be. It could be. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Great work. Great work. Why are you doing mystery hour in the twilight zone this week? James, great question. Actually, I have no idea. From the LBC, traffic 1248 is the time. Four leaf clovers porridge. Is Britain going to disappear eventually as a result of not immigration? All right, so this is my show now. Britain going to disappear as a result of coastal erosion, not Romanians. And we've done the snails and we've done the babies. So four leaf clovers, porridge, sea levels and breathing out. I got that right. But I explained it bad. When you breathe out with an open mouth, it's warm. Breathe out with a closed mouth, it's cold. It's about the wind chill factor on your skin. It's not about the temperature of the gas that's coming out of your mouth. Hard though that may be to believe, I'm 83% sure that I'm right. Wrigley Clive's been in touch. I don't know why he's called Wrigley Clive. Probably because he's Wrigley. He says, thanks, james. I've actually laughed out loud so many times this week that. That's great. That means we've kept the promise of previous weeks when I promise you that you'll laugh out loud at least once in the course of mister. And if you don't, although I've never actually had a complaint this week, you've laughed out loud several times. I'm very glad to hear it. Adam's in Cheshunt. Adam, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, mate. I just wondered why we use silent letters in words. They didn't used to be silent. They didn't. For example, the word pterodactyl. I don't know why I come across that word, but it's got a p at the front of it. Who decided, oh, this word needs a p in front of it? It would have been a pterodactyl originally. Oh, really? Yep. Pterodactyl. Is that the same every word, like dumb or autumn might be somewhere. It's linguistic, where we've borrowed a word from another language, but generally speaking, silent letters didn't used to to be silent. Autumn. Autumn's a good one. Languages, what? Is that the same, like every language that other nations have, like, silent letters as well? I can't see what the point of them would be unless they weren't silent to begin with. So autumn was probably autumn us. So the end. Do you see what I mean? Autumn null. So the ends just stayed there as a sort of residual limb. But generally speaking, silent letters didn't used to be silent. That's the best answer you're going to get. That's the best answer you're going to get. Okay, I believe you. Yeah. Well played out. Have you got a favorite one? Have you got a favorite one. A favorite silent letter. Uh, xylophone. What's the silent letter in that? X. Where does the z come from? It'd be wile phone if you didn't have an x in it. You prune. It starts with X. It's spelled xylophone. With an x. It zerxes. That's how you pronounce X at the beginning of a word. Unless it's x ray. Xylophone. Xerxes. What else is in the dictionary beginning with x? Yeah, you got me. There must be something else. Xylophone. Xerxes is a bloke. Not. Not even a word. It's not silent, though, is it? If it wasn't there, the word wouldn't be the same. If the x wasn't there, it'd be, I love phone. Or win a phone. Or elephant. What. What are your qualifications? I've no idea, mate. I don't even know what day it is. It's Thursday. Well played. Give him a round of applause. Thank you very much. No, you're very welcome. Jimmy's in Hoddesden. Jimmy, question or answer? Hello. My question is, why is it bad manners to lean your elbow on the table whilst eating dinner? How old are you, Jimmy? Pardon? How old are you, mate? I'm ten. Good question. And do you do this? Do you get told off when you do this? Yeah. Yeah, me too. I'm 44 and a half. I don't know, actually. Have you asked your mum? Yeah, but she didn't know. Well, then she can't come here a minute. If she can't tell you why it's bad manners. She's not allowed to tell you that you can't do it, in my opinion. Oh, yeah. You tell her you got that off the radio. Why do you think it might be? Because it shut. Because I think it's. I haven't actually haven't got an answer as well. Me neither. It's a crack of that. 1252. Why is it bad manners to put your elbows on the table? I'll find out for you. Okay? Thank you. No, thank you. But in the meantime, seriously, you tell your mum that if she can't tell you why it's bad manners, she's not allowed to tell you that you can't do it. Okay. Fair. Yes. She says, you know, give her my number, mate. Any problems. All right? Okay. Thank you. Nice one, Jimmy. Mind how you go. 1252. Collins in ricellip. Question or answer, Colin? Answer. Go on, then. Britain. Will it ever be nothing? Will it be rode away years ago? The Isle of wood. Xenophobic, Colin. Xenophobic. Xenophobic. Okay, carry on. Years ago, the Isle of Wight was connected to mainland Britain. Over the years, it eroded away. That's why you have the needle sticking out, because that is part of where the Isle of Wight was connected to Britain. So give it millions and billions of years, there'd probably be no isle of wight, and Britain will be the size of the Isle of Wight. And if you think about the sea, you look at pebbles on the beach, they've eroded from rocks, so the water will eventually erode everything. I think you're right, and that's kind of what I said with my apple analogy. But I don't know that you've gone definitive on it because the needles are still there, to be honest. So, I mean, your man in Treorchie, Rob, I think his name was, would probably say, ah, but Britain still exists because you've still got needles. But we're not connected. You can't drive to the Isle of Wight, where as you could before. Well, mate, what do you mean? You could drive to the Isle of Wight before the Isle of Wight was connected to Britain. You couldn't drive there. You're talking about 2 million years ago, man. Henry Ford wasn't even born. Well, give it 2 million years ago, you wouldn't have walked to the Isle of Wight or jumped on your donkey. But it was connected. It's no more, because what was theirs eroded away, it's true. And. But the needles are still there, so you might have a big chunk of needle that was stuck together and that would still be Britain. So there'd be a tiny little corner of the world that was still Britain. Possibly, but you still physically have to cross the sea to get to the Isle of Wight. What are your qualifications, Cole? I read it at school many years ago when I was doing geography. Not your qualifications about the Isle of Wight. Your qualifications for stating with absolute certainty that Britain will one day disappear, you traitor. Geography and the map was connected of traitor, are you? Britain will never disappear. Britons never, never, never shall be slaves and Britain never shall disappear beneath the waves. Colin, whatever your sort, your communist lot tried to achieve. Push the applause button. No, I'm not pushing the applause button. Was worth a try. Yeah, yeah. Andrew's in Herne Hill. Andrew, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer. Carry on, Andrew. It's when you blow through your mouth. If your mouth is open, it comes out at the temperature of the body. Yes. If you sort of purse your lips, as it were, it comes out much colder. It's called the Venturi effect. The Venturi effect? Yes. Does it come out colder or does it just not just reach the target? Feels colder on your skin because it's. No, it comes out cold. If you've ever. You've ever seen compressed air coming out of a compressor? Yes. The moisture is freezing around where it's true. Why? Do we know why? Well, no, it's just a natural phenomena. I dare say you could work it out through my nuclear physics, but it was observed in the 18th century by this chap Venturi initially. That will do, won't it? All right. No. Give me a round of applause. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Pleasure doing business with you. 1255 is the time. James, you are so going to get a slap off Jimmy's mum. Don't be ridiculous. You can't go around telling children to get their elbows off the table if you can't tell them why. It's bad manners. Simples. Get a slap of my own mum, probably. James is in Kingston. James, question or answer? Oh, answer. Is it about elbows on tables? No. Can we get an answer for Jimmy? He's only ten. Can we sort out Jimmy? Little Jimmy. That's all right, someone else is on the case. Three Jimmy's in a row. We've got Jimmy. James. And now another James. Well, what are you going to answer for us? James and King Langston. Right. Four leaf clovers. Yeah. What are the odds? Well, very, very slim. I've searched all my life and over the last four years, being blessed with a beautiful daughter, we often go out. And at Christmas. Yeah, we had a friend come over from France who gave me ten, no less than ten. Shut the front door. Swear. Fermat la porte femela. Port and Femila Venetra. I promise you, I have in possession ten full leaf clovers wrapped up in white paper. And they're beautiful. And I'm not going to tell you where they came from, but it is a corner of France where they're very common. The island pops up every 3000 years. You serious? And it's full of. No, obviously. Like Atlantis. No, but. No, but there is obviously the odds of finding a four leaf clover, wherever your french friend was, are considerably shorter than they are in that field in Essex where the caller came from. Well, the Irish might tell you different, because, you know, that is their. That is their lucky thing, but it's. I've never, ever found one. And we have spent a long, long time looking for, so you can't answer the question, then. What? What are the odds of finding a four leaf clover? The odds are you can't answer that question. The answer is you're not going to find one unless you find this little place in France. Depends where you are. Yeah. No, that's silly. That's not true. I found a four leaf clover when I was eleven. I'll get off. Give us a shit. Straight up. Seriously? Seriously. In Chattersley. Corbett, mate, in Worcestershire, I bet you chatter is bigger than York. You've got ten. I'm not having a fight with you. You've won already. But I found one in Chattersley. Corbett, you just said I had to go to France. There's a round of applause. I think we'll have one each. That one's yours and that one's mine. But we still haven't helped little Jimmy. Oh, poor little Jimmy. I'm sorry, Jimmy, I can't help you. Hang on. Let's see if Mary. Mary's in Potter's bar. Mary, can you come to the aid of little Jimmy? I'm in stevenage. But very, very quickly, because I'm actually in the car. Come on. Yes. I'm telling you, from growing up with edwardian parents, you sat at the dinner table with your parents and you had your wrists on the edge of the table. If you were eating with a knife and fork, you put your knife and fork down and left your wrists to sit at the edge of the table. Your elbows at all times stayed under the table. But why? Reason? I don't know. Simon's in Finsbury Park. Simon, why is it bad manners to put your elbows on the table? So, back in the old days, when before they put tables together, what they used to do, they used to put them on top of a log, like a base. So if you put your elbows on the table, the table would flip up. So that was how it became to be bad manners to put your elbows like a trestle table. Now, it would happen with a tr. You know, you go to a party and there's a trestle table and you lean on it and it sort of wobbles a bit. And the sausage roll. The sausage roll rolls towards you, mate, you're a flipping. I nearly swore then. I'm so happy. You, Simon, are a genius. You're the new patron saint of mystery. What are your qualifications? I see it on a Discovery Channel years. Get in. Round of applause for Simon and Jimmy, mate, next time your mum tells you to get your elbows off the table, just say, excuse me, mum, I don't think we're eating off a log. We'll be back tomorrow morning. From ten, here is Sheila for Fogarty. Thank you, James. Now, from three. If in a professional setting, say, Westminster, for example, a man refers to a woman as Totti, should she a, complain to him b, complain to his boss c, take it on the chin. I'll talk to a woman who's a leading political journalist who's told another woman herself, a leading political journalist who chose b that she should have chosen c, what would you do?