Custard slices - really?

Three minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we embark now upon our weekly ventures into the unknown. Those opportunities don't come along very often. Well, they do. They come along every week. But apart from here, they don't come along very often where you can achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. If you have bubbling away in the back of your brain a little question to which you know there must be an answer, but you're damned if you can work out what it is. Well, this could be your absolution, your deliverance, your savior. Who, why, what, where, when, whither, wherefore, even the occasional whence, whatever the question may be, as long as it is sort of sensible and interesting, we'll put it on the board and we will try to get you an answer to it. The number you need. And I've got phone lines 30345 because Caroline forgot to clear the board at the end of the last hour. So all the people who normally pile in really early have been getting the engaged time, which means all the new people, if they pile in now, could grab a place on the switchboard for the first time in recorded history, forgot to give you the number zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Why do we do that, James? Where does that come? What's the origin of that? How come, what, why, where, when, whither, wherefore, whence, what resulted? What happened? Anything goes. Science or trivia silliness or serious stuff. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then do ring in and answer it. And if you are judged to be correct and you can provide evidence of your credentials, by which I don't mean, you know, got a bag of gymnastics award for. I mean, how do you know the bit of knowledge you just shared with us? And it can be because you did a PhD thesis on it or because you saw it on the telly last night. It really doesn't matter how you know it, I just need to know. To establish your qualifications. If your qualifications are adjudged to be suitable and your answer judged to be definitive, you will receive a mystery hour round of applause. There is another honour available on this program for all 15 hours of the week that we broadcast, although it does in recent years. Recent weeks seem to have been awarded more on mystery out there elsewhere. But it hasn't been. Can you remember the last time we gave out? We haven't had a raliota for weeks now. A raliota is when your qualifications to answer the question are so special and out of the ordinary. That is, you know, if you are actually a rocket scientist, and by an amazing sort of confluence of coincidence, convergence of coincidence, we get a question about rocket science very specific to your particular field of expertise within the field of rocket science, and you happen to be listening and you ring in and you provide the answer. In those sorts of circumstances, you may find yourself in receipt of the loftier, loftiest honor that radio can provide for listeners. The loftiest honor that radio can provide for presenters is the Broadcasting Press guilds broadcaster of the year award. But I've already won that. So what I want you to do for me now is to get onto Twitter and start voting for me to beat Sarah Cox, because it ends in 24 minutes and she was ahead of me when I came on air. So if you go to my Twitter account, there's a radio times, it's all a big game underway, but it's great fun. And don't just vote for me, vote for Steve Allen as well. He's in a different group. And if you vote for both of us, then we might end up doing a head to head near the end in the semi final. Like sort of Djokovic versus Nadal. No, all right, like sort of, I don't know, a couple of british people that you've never heard of, except once at Wimbledon twelve years ago. Should we go on with Mister Yah before we embarrass ourselves further or indulge in more utterly shameless boasting? Yeah, all right. Anne is in eltam and question or answer? Question, please. Yours. In our house, we have a mystery knocker. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. This is a family program, madam. No, it's a knock. It's a sequence of a knock. Oh, yes. And it can happen anytime and it's always very quiet. But it's a knock, you know, knock, knock, knock, knock, knock, knock, knock. That sequence. Yes. Where does it come from? Oh, I know that I did something. Something to Bob. We've done this before. It's to do with. Oh, I can't remember. Oh, the two bob, or something like. But anyway, I'm just gibbering. What do you mean? You've got one in your house and it's quiet. I thought you were talking about an invisible knock and no one knows where it came from. But this is a knock that people do. We don't. And we look out, we don't. We can't see where it is. Well, so you're just sitting at home watching university challenge with the volume on low and then just out of nowhere you all hear the same. The knock. Yep, that's what we hear. And it's your neighbors. Well, it can be early in the morning. I mean, that we just live with it. It's just a mystery. That's the mystery. That's a much more interesting mystery, although much harder to solve than the mystery of where the actual rhythm comes from, if you will. Well, we live. We live in a terrace house and we can see our neighbors front doors. Yeah, it's your neighbors. It's obviously one of your neighbors. How often does it happen a day? It doesn't happen daily. It happens about two or three times a week. And it can be 03:00 in the morning and you hear this very gentle knock. But it's this sequence and, I mean, we live with a knock. Could one of your neighbors be having a little extracurricular activity and it's a secret code when she has a gentleman call her. It could be. Could be. I should look at them differently now. Definitely. I should think so too. I. Sure. So what you want to know is the origin of the actual rhythm. We're not going to be able to solve the mystery of your own home by 01:00 today. That's lovely. No, thank you, Anne. Unless you are, of course, Anne's neighbour, in which case you would be able to provide a definitive answer to both or at least the first half of the mystery. Most of us will confine ourselves to the second half. I know it's something to do with costermongering or selling door to door, but it's not coming. Christians in Norwich. Christian. Question or answer? Oh, hi, James. Question, please. Carry on. Matt Fry's in Norwich today. Give him a wave if you see him, won't you? I heard you. Yeah, I heard you mention that on the radio earlier, actually. Yeah. Honorary degree indeed. Yes. Fantastic work. He's not going to the art school, which is where I went down by the theatre. I know where the art school is. Just. But then they're just opposite the theater, isn't it? Yeah, a bit further up the playhouse. Same street? Yes. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. George, big fan of Norwich. Carry on. Aha. So I tried to call up last week, so I'm a bit. I'm a week late on this. So that's pretenders. Last week. In the spirit of Wimbledon, why is a dry volley called the dry volley and a wet volley called a wet volley? I don't know what you're talking about. I thought I knew about tennis. So when the player takes the ball out of the air, it's either called a dry volley or a wet volley. And when the ball bounces, it's either called a dry volley or a wet volley. And I can't remember which is which. Well, this is the worst question ever. You don't even know the terms of the question yourself. How am I going to get you an answer? The questioner doesn't understand the question. I think a dry volley is when they take it out of the air. And I think a wet volley is when it bounces on the ground, that's a half volley. If it bounces on the ground, it's not a volley at all. That's the whole point. A half volley is when this is going to end in tears, very briefly. Yeah. Well, then what's. There is a sideline to this. In music production, for example, wet and dry is applied to signalling or processing signals. You're making it worse. Am I? Yeah. I think it's a valid question because you don't even understand the question. Why is it? I mean, I've got. I know what a volley is and I know what a half volley is and I know what a non volley is. And are you describing a non volley? No, I'm describing a wet volley or a dry. I think you're a Wally. I think you're a volley Wally Christian. Also, why does Rainyota sound like Donald Trump? That isn't in that. Well, I don't know. We can't. Haven't heard it for weeks because I keep getting like this on the program instead of real hardcore, hardcore contributors who deserve the highest accolade. So I will ask the question in the hope that someone who answers it has a better understanding of what the question means and the person who asked it. You're not going to get a round of applause. I'm not? No. Nor are you. Right. What's the difference between a wet volley and a dry volley? Is that, you know, um. Where's the. Where's that? We're back in Norwich. You know, the art cinema? The posh cinema? Not posh, but the arty one on the hill. The madam market. No, I'm getting confused now. Cinema city. Sorry. Yeah, yeah. Is that still there? Yeah. And if you go up the hill on the left, there used to be an irish pub. Is that irish pub still there? No, I mean, I was living down in Brighton for the best part of three years and I think that irish pub has changed. Names and hands. About ten times. Oh, has it? Because I was going to ask you to pop in and say hello to my mate Aidan, who used to be the landlord there 15 years ago. But I think that ship's clearly sailed, hasn't it, Aidan? Actually, that main ring irish fella had good contacts in the horse racing industry. Okay, I'm pretty sure everyone that used to drink there still drinks there. They don't really care what it's called, they just go there. Used to do a pint of prawns and he was a lovely bloke and he always used to offer me a free drink. And then I took my wife with me once and I said, yeah, right, and she asked for a glass of champagne. I was so embarrassed, because if the landlord offers you a free drink. Sure. Champagne socialists. Thank you, Christian. What's the difference in a wet volley and a dry volley? And what's the origin of that knock noise? You know, da da da da da da. Ten bob. It's probably not ten bob, but that's what I've got. James is on old Street. James, question or answer? Hello, James. A question, please. Carry on, James. So, body odor, sweaty body odor, personal scent. So I took a t shirt off the other day and I smelt like my dad. Is it hereditary? Sort of. Is it in your jeans? Your smell. Is your smell in your jeans, mate, this is going wrong on all sorts of levels. So how do you know you smell like. I mean, did anyone else agree with you that you smell like your dad? No. So what about your mum? I took the t shirt off and, yeah, it took me back to being sort of six years old and my dad would come home from work, go give him a big hug and everything, and it smell. I smell like my dad. And it's not, it's not, it's not. It's your personal smell, rather than Bo. Yes, yes, because it's so. You know, people have a certain sense, don't they? Is it not? What do they, though? Because could it not just be that you're using the same laundry detergent that they used when your dad was. Well, no, because, I mean, I'm assuming within the last 20 years, it's changed. Anyway, I bet there is something. I bet there is something, because, you know, it would be an evolutionary, biological sort of protection mechanism. Oh, it's a good question that everyone has that sort of smell, don't they? Like my missus, sort of. You're all right, mate. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. No, no, no. Stop it. And she's just. She smells nice. There is a distinct, distinct aroma. Okay. So is body scent hereditary? Yeah. All right. I'll try and get you an answer to that. I like that a lot. The thing is, you don't really notice the smell, but I reckon I would know with my eyes closed. No perfume involved. Everybody clean? And you. This is all going to sound a little bit Alan Partridge. If you've just tuned in at this moment in time, I should clarify that this is an illustration and an embellishment of a question that's just been asked on mystery hour. But in order to understand James question, I need you to conduct a mental, theoretical mental exercise, which is think of someone you care for and know very well, probably a partner, but it could be a parent or a child. And then imagine an experiment in which everyone is clean but not perfumed, so they haven't washed in perfumed soap or anything like that. And clean as in, they haven't exerted themselves to such a degree that they've got body odor. With your eyes closed, using only the power of your nose, would you be able to identify which one of ten people was your partner just by smell? I think you probably would. Would you or not? If you can, then you understand James's question. If you don't think you could, then you don't. 1215 is the time. It's 19 minutes after twelve. The origin of that phrase. I've remembered it now, but it's too late. I have to let someone else get the points. The knock. I think we may have had an error from Norwich. A lot of you are suggesting that what Christian heard was drive volley, and there's no such thing as a wet volley or a dry volley. So you never. Christian, mate, I don't know if you ever heard of a wet volley, or if you just imagine that if there is a dry volley, then there must also be a wet volley. But it was called a drive volley. So it's the difference between, you know, hitting it hard as it comes towards you, or just getting to it in the nick of time before it hits the ground. I could be wrong on that, but I've got a sneaky suspicion that I'm not. And is body scent hereditary? That's a lovely question. And, in fact, it's offered a wonderful opportunity to say, maxim Preston, this is one of my favorite tweets of all time. I'm getting some lovely tweets at the moment. This is a text, I beg your pardon, to 84850. My party trick in school was to be able to tell whose school jumper belonged to whom? In my class from smell alone, says Max, impressed. And that is some party trick. Matthew twining always smells salt and vinegar crisps back at my school. And then it turned out his parents had a pub. So it was quite possible, looking back, that he used to keep his school uniform close to the cupboard in which they kept the crisps. I may be sort of going a little bit off the beaten track on this one. Let's get back to the program proper. It's 20 minutes after twelve. David is in Enfield. Question or answer? David a question, James. Also kind of scent related. It's to do with bumblebees. Oh, yes. My neighbor's garden at this time of year has several large clumps of wild flowering lavender. Oh, I love lavender at this time of year and it's bothered me for a couple of years because every time you go by the garden it is swarming with bumblebees from sun up to sundown. There's literally hundreds of bumblebees visiting this garden. It goes on until basically the flowers die. Yes. I don't see any honeybees visiting these flowers and I don't see any bumblebees visiting any other sort of flowers that grow profusely in the neighborhood, like roses or, you know, flowering plants and baskets. So I'm wondering, is there a botanist out there that can tell me why bumblebees are particularly attracted to lavender? Is it a scent thing or is it the quality of the pollen? You're probably in danger of answering the question yourself via sort of multiple choice, but do we know that this is common to all lavender, rather than just your neighbours? Well, I would think, I mean, you know, because you get lavender honey, you mean. So clearly, that's why I find it a bit strange. Yes, but in this particular garden, literally there's several hundred of these bumblebees swarming around these plants all day, feeding off them. And I don't see any other type of. Maybe bumblebees scare off the honeybees. They're much bigger. Well, that's possible, but I'm just wondering why that particular flower. Yeah, you're on. I like it. The bumblebees and lavender. What's the deal? What's going on? What's the relationship? David, it's a lovely question. Thank you. 22 minutes after twelve is the time. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Scott is in Romford. Scott, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Come on then. I need to know why? Whoa. I need to know. All right, all right. Why? Boats steer from the back. Cars steer from the front. I was in a. I was in a. I had to go fly fishing on Tuesday. Oh, how'd you get on? And I got caught a little cheeky. Rainbow trout. Nice one. Was it big enough to eat? If he was hungry enough. If you weren't hungry, you mean. Was a massive. But it was big. It will be when I tell everyone. Cool. This boat we was in, Adam, at a motor at the back, and I was really struggling to steer it because the outboards on the back. So I put it in reverse and sailed it everywhere backwards and I. Hang on a minute. You did. You what? So we're in it. So you could. So you turned it round and you could go from the front? No, no, no. The. But the engines on the back. Yeah. So you put the. You put the engine in Ford gear. Yeah. And it propels you forward and you steer it from the back. Yeah, but. But if you put the engine in a reverse gear, obviously it will pull you backwards. Yeah. And I could. I could. I could control this thing. I could steer it better from the back. Really? Then I could. When it was going forward. So I want to know. You mean you could. You mean you could control it better from the back when the back was actually the front? Yes. Got you. All right, now I'm getting there now. So I want to know why rudders aren't at the front. I suspect it goes back to sail, doesn't it? I have no idea. Well, that would seem the obvious answer in that way, because you've got a mechanical engine, which obviously you can control in a way that you can't control the wind. If you. If you're powered entirely by wind, you need a rudder at the back. Even speedboats and ferries and. Yeah, I know, but they all, they all. They all evolved from sailing boats. So probably at no point did anyone say, I'm just talking gibberish. I'll get. Why isn't the steering evolved? It may be that your experience on Tuesday is not indicative of the entire maritime history of the universe and that because you think, had ales been taken on. I mean, I know that beer is often taken on fishing trips. It may be that you hadn't actually improved the efficiency of your craft by steering it from the back. We beached the boat to go for a cup of tea and I almost capsized it moving away from the beach. There was. There was no beer. It was just tea. All right. Just tea. So why do boats steer from the back is the simple question. That's the one you're on. I like it. Are you going to go fishing again? Absolutely. I'm already looking. I'm not really carp fishing. I'm already looking for fly rods and reels. I absolutely loved it. Like it? Make your own flies as well. You know, when you become really, uh, committed. I'm a little bit heavy handed for that. I'll end up with them in my fingers. Very wise. Yes. Know your limitations, Scott. Take care. 25 minutes after twelve is a time. Why do boats steer from the back? What's the relationship between bumblebees and lavender in particular? Is our questioner's neighbour an anomaly, or has he spoken of a broader truth? Is body scent hereditary? And the origins of the knock knock? And then you've got the wet volley dry volley question, which I suspect is built upon a false premise. But if you can unpick it, then you're welcome to do so. Tom's in Camberwell. Tom, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. Go on. It's the knocking one. I think I'm gonna steal a round of applause here. Oh, good man. Go on. It was shave and a haircut, two bits save and a haircut. Two bits. Where does it come from? People going to door. People going door to door. And that's how you knew who was at the door. And it comes from America, I think, if it's two bits, doesn't it? How did it get into british parlance? Do we know? Don't know, I'm afraid. Heard it on mystery hour a couple of months ago. Yeah. And you had a better memory than I've got. Pinching one a little bit, I'm afraid. Sweet as a nut. It's yours. Take it. Nicely done. Shave and a haircut. Two bits. 26 minutes after twelve. Stuart's in Bedford. Stuart. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Question is, why do doctors sign prescriptions when no one can verify the signature? I guess ultimately someone can verify it. You know, if you brought it back to the issuing surgery and said, did you sign that? Then they'd say, yes, I did, I suppose. What do you mean, you suppose? That's the answer. Okay. I thought there might be something slightly more to it. No, I mean, it was almost a really good question. No offence, that sounds snidey on my part, and I understand why you asked it, but the impenetrability of the signature doesn't actually prevent identification by the author. So if you wanted to investigate whether or not a prescription had been falsely issued, you would go back to the issuing doctor and say, is this your signature? Otherwise it could be. I mean, it's just the same question about forgeries. How do they know that prescriptions aren't forged? They don't. But if they have any suspicions, they'll go back and ask the GP. That's the bad news, is it wasn't a great question. Do you know what the good news is? Go on. I get a round of applause. Tim's in Newquay. Tim, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about the dry volley. Come on, Tim. A dry volley is when they take it in the air and they carry on the swing through. Yes. A normal volley is when they punch it and it goes over the net. So they take the ball early, in the end, they drive through the shop. So there's no such thing as a wet volley. He's missed. He's misheard. He's misheard. Drive volley and thought it was dry volley and therefore invented the existence of a wet volley, hasn't he? Yes. What are your qualifications? My port is a tennis player. At what level? Tennis official. At what level does your daughter play? She was international. She's at university now. Fantastic. That'll do. And what is the biggest tournament at which you've officiated? I've lie and umpire at Wimbledon mystery hour state. Say that again. What's the biggest tournament at which you've officiated, Tim? Wimbledon. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Tim, you got a Ray Liotta, mate. Hello. Hello. I'm here. You got a Ray Liotta? Did you not hear it? No, I didn't. All right, well, have a round of applause and listen back to the podcast. That qualifies. Right. I've umpired at Wimbledon answering a tennis question. For a minute. I thought it was Tim Henman. I would have also got a rallyota. Paul is in Leamington Spa. Paul, question or answer? Hello, Paul, what have you got? So it's an answer, mate. Bring it on to the scent question, the body odour and what have you. Yes, basically mammals, people included, have the same genetic scent as the mother up until early adolescence, when puberty kicks in and things start to change and that, and I believe the. I think you said it actually comes down to a survival thing, so that parent animals know the scent of their own animals and know when to feed them, when to look after them or what have you. But when they reach adolescence and they become more independent. That's interesting. So is there any likelihood, is there any likelihood that the questioner did have the same scent as his dad, then later in life as an adult? Possibly. I mean, it does change things like your environment, the things that you eat, the clothes you wear, them washing up powders and stuff like that, that you use and perfumes and that do have an effect on it. But when everything is stripped off and you're down to the bare bones, if you like, it's all just damaging up until 11, 12 30, it'd be interesting to know. So Max's party trick in Preston probably was at primary school, if he could tell who everybody was by their school jumper. Although. No, because you'd have your own. You'd have your own scent after that, but up until puberty, it would be the same as your mom's. What are your qualifications, Paul? I was trained dogs to find all sorts of things, including people. But I read a study, I think it was dated back in the seventies, somewhere in Holland, where they looked at this exact sort of issue and then concluded that that was the case. I like that. That's a quality answer and a quality qualification. Round of applause for Paul. Good man, good man. 12:30 is the time. It is 1234. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Remarkably for half time on a mystery, I've got two phone lines free. If you've got a question, there's still time for you to grab one of them. 0345-6060 so 973 is the number that you need questions that still need answers. Actually, we've done pretty well. Bumblebees and lavender. Do bumblebees have a particular affinity for lavender? And if so, why the steering of a boat? It's such a stupid question. I knew that was a stupid question when you asked it, Stu. It's so obvious what the answer is. Never mind, someone else can get the round of applause. Why are boats steered from the back? Motor boats. And the answer has nothing to do with wind or sail, oddly. But anyway, you can work it out for yourself and that's it. They're the only two that still need answers, so we've got time to get some more on the board. Jack is in Manchester. Jack, question or answer? Carry on, mate. Why do women like hotter temperatures? Why do women like hotter temperatures than men? Yes, it's an appalling phone line, so I'm going to tell. I'm going to. I'm going to speculate on why you're answering this. Great. If you get into the shower after your girlfriend or wife has been in it, you burn your backside. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, me too. I don't know. I mean, what would the answer look like? Why do women. Is it. Is it, why do they? Or is it. Do they. Yeah. Is there a biological. I mean, it'd be more to do with a higher threshold, wouldn't it? I mean, actively enjoying the hotter temperature. I can't get in the bath after my wife gets out of it. It's far too hot for me. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can answer that question. Anna is in Potter's bar. Question or answer, Anna. Hi, James. It's an answer. How hot do you have your shower? No. It's funny you say that, actually. I don't have a shower. I have a bath and I do have it really, really hot. And I find that interesting, how we can tolerate hot water more than we can tolerate cold water. Yes. That's a female thing. I don't know. No. All right. Anyway, that's not what you rang in for. Maybe we look at baths as a bit more of a luxurious item, whereas you guys are a bit more functional. So you just don't really care. Getting out, get washed. No, I don't. I just said no. I enjoy luxuriant bath. I like to kick back a bit, maybe, you know, put in some ungents, get a few. Get a few lotions, read a bit of a book, get the old. Get the old radio on in the background. I like to make an event of a bath, but I don't have it as hot as the women in my life, including my eldest daughter now is probably tolerating a hotter shower than me. But anyway, we're digressing slightly. What did you bring in for? Can you remember? Yeah, I can, but I'm afraid I might do myself an injustice because I'm so excited. I feel like that six year old in class who's, like, bursting with her hand up, wanting to answer the question. And then the teacher points at you and you can't say anything because you're frightened that you get it wrong. You'll be fine. The bees. The bees, they see plants. They're attracted to certain plants because of color. They see the plants in ultraviolet light, different to how we see the colours of the plants. And they're kind of geared towards, obviously, certain color patterns. Some bee species will only go for a certain plant. Most bee species, 250. We've got 24 of them, which are bumblebees. Most of them are kind of broad feeders. I think it's mainly got to do with different. Different lavenders are more attractive to bees. Different. There's hundreds and hundreds of types of lavenders and different ones certainly do attract more bees and honeybees. Honeybees love lavender just as much as bumblebees. Yes, I thought they did, because you can buy lavender honey. But in our questioners next door neighbor's garden, it could be a combination of breed of lavender, if you like, species of lavender, species of bee and geography. There might not be any honeybees in the vicinity. Exactly. And also, what was the other thing I was going to say? I don't want to fail now at the line. I think you're already over the line, but if you want to add to it, you can only help. And also just a little punt for the bumblebees or the bees is. I think there's been such a decline in plants that are suitable for pollinators. That's why we see such a condensation of them when they do. There's been a big trend for those blowsy, really colorful plants that people plant up which serve no purpose to the pollinators. I think we've lost something like 75% of our pollinating. So lavender is one of those, is one of the mother loads then, of pollination, because it's still fairly popular even in the blousy, frowsy gardens that you described. So just to clarify, why do they go for the lavender and not the other plants? Probably something to do with seeing the world in ultraviolet. Why don't they? Why don't they, why aren't there loads of honeybees there as well? Probably because there are any honeybees in the, in the, in the district. Yeah, that's pretty. Also, different species of bumblebees have different lengths of tongues. The sunbees access, like flat. What did you just say? Different lengths of tongue. Some have long tongues that can get into like, things like, you know, the deep flowers, like. I'm, I'm trying to think of one. Fox gloves. Oh, of course, yeah. Like hummingbirds, that kind of thing. Some of them have short, shorter tongues so they can only access things like Michaelmas, daisies or those kind of flatter umbella feathers type. If my mum could hear me using all these lunch, she'd be so proud. She is. She would. What are your qualifications? Just to put the cherry on the icing on the cake. I'm just a really up and coming and amateur entomologist who's taken a real swerve towards our bees and I'm trying really hard to learn everything I can about. Great work. Superb. Oh, no. You spoil it all by using toilet language. What? Round of applause, everybody. Plants and lavender. It's delicious. Well played, Anna. Great work. 1240 is the time. Steve is in barn. Steve, question or answer, Steve? It's both. No, it isn't. Whatever you cleared with Caroline, you can do on the radio. If you haven't cleared it with Caroline, you can't. So is it a question or an answer? My question is about custard slices. Custard slices. Slice. When a custard slice comes into the bakery, right, it's a big custard slice. Massive. It comprises of about eight individual slices of custard slice. Yeah, yeah. You know when you try and eat a custard slice. Yeah. It's impossible to do it with keeping the custard inside the custard slice. It's not easy. So how do they cut the big custard slice into his individual pieces without squashing all of the custard out? Still in the tin. It's what? It's still in the tin. What's still in the tin? The big custard slice. No, I don't think that's it, mate. I think normally it's not in a tin. It comes in the tin. They cut it in the tin. All right? They cut it in the box. It's in it. It's in. It's got. No, it fits very neatly into the container. Therefore, when they cut it, there's nowhere for the dislodged custard to go. I don't think you're right, really. All right. They use a cheese wire. No, I actually. I know the answer to the question. Well, then, why have you asked it? Just to see if anybody else knew to provoke. That's not how mystery hour works. You can't prove you're clever by misunderstanding the rules of a feature that's been running for the best part of a decade that. That proves the opposite of clever, Steve. Well, see if anybody comes up with the right. No, no, Steve, you don't give you the. I don't care. I'm not the one who's got a particular fetish for custard slices. This is your world that you've invited us into and no one wants to come. Well, you know, I think maybe you're speaking on behalf of everybody there. I am, yeah, I am. No, I'm very partial to a custard slice, but as long as it is. Isn't dislodging the custard when it's cut. I don't really care about the. Oh, I do care now. Yes. You've never wondered? Because I have a particular way I turn it sideways. Yeah. So you bite through the custard instead of the top. The pastry. I do know. I'm not gonna lie to you. I'm not gonna lie to you. I was enjoying. Everybody has their individual, unique technique towards eating a custard slice. You're weird. So don't tell me you don't find it fascinating. I know you're thinking about it when you're eating a custard slice. I'm quite intrigued now to know how they cut custard slices. So go on, then. Yeah, go on, then. Tell me. Do you want me to tell you? Yeah, I do. But with Brett, us to break the rules. No, I know, but, hey, you know, I'm a red pastry that goes on the top and the bottom. Yeah, they cut it. Yeah. Then they put the custard in there and then they put the pastry on top. But I thought it came into the shop already, like a giant custard slice. It does, because, you know the giant piece of pastry that goes on top? Yeah. They cut it and they cut the bottom bit. They separate the two, put the custard in the middle and then put the lid on. Got you. I felt cheated when I found that out. Yeah, I do a little as well. You thought there was some sort of physics type? There was some kind of, you know, magic? I never thought there was magic. I thought there might have been a kind of, you know, something interesting. Can I answer the thing about the guy at the girls in the bath? Steve, you're really. Pardon? Can I answer the thing about women in the bath? No, no, mate. Listen, you've already indulged one fetish. I'm not allowing you to start talking about women in the bath on top of your custard slices. This is getting quite unsavory. No, I think. I think you. I never thought I'd say that about a custard slice. No, you clearly are a much, much wiser man than I gave you credit for when you first came on with your custard slice question. But you can't start. No. No. You can't stop. No, no, please. No. Please. No. Come on, man. No chance. You've broken one rule and now you're asking for more. This is what happens with people like you. You can't give you an inch and you want a mile. What if I just start. That's what my ex wife said. There you go. She had a point, mate. Seriously, I'm gonna give you a round of applause. I'm not sure you deserve it, but I don't want you to go away unhappy. Leave it, leave it, leave it, leave it. Ross is in Wolframstow. Ross, question or answer, please, James. I'm to be surprised if you can remember what it is. Go on. Boats, why do they steer? Well, yeah, ships, boats. Why do they steer from the back? Yes. Turning circle. Are you a taxi driver? No. Common sense and observation. Well, no, you say that, but there's another reason with an engine, because if you've had it at the front of the boat, then the back of the boat would be up in the air. So you've got at the back of the boat, the front of the boat's up in the air. So that's part of the answer as well. You might be able to counterbalance that. Yeah. So it's. The size of the turning circle is for. If you're steering from the back, you've got a much tighter turning circle than if you're steering from the front. Yeah. That's a nice answer. Yeah, I think. Qualifications? Common sense. You worked out observations free of charge. Yeah. Same with big trucks, isn't it? Yeah. Dust trucks, articulate lorries, trucks. Anything that needs a tight turning circle, whether it be long or need to work in confined spaces. Round of applause for. Right, take it, mate. 1245 is the time. 1249. We. There may be a stewards inquiry on the horizon. As you know, there is no fear or favour on this program shown to people in the. In the public eye. This is why various famous people have not been allowed to contribute. I made one exception by accident last week when. When we took an answer from Gary Lineker that he tweeted him. But generally speaking, I don't care who you are or what you done, everyone's equal on mystery hour. But I do think we may have made a mistake when we turned away Matthew Pinsent on the question about boats. How many gold medals has Matthew Pinsent won in a boat? Four, five. Six lots. And we turned him away and he is fairly indignant that the answer we just gave a round of applause to is wrong. You can argue with Matthew pinsent about boats, but you're going to have to have all your ducks in a row before you do so. And obviously, Matthew was far too modest when he rang in to say, don't you know who I am? So we shall see. 1250 is the time Philip is in Bristol. Question or answer, Philip? Answer. Carry on. Answer to why women are hotter or they prefer hotter things? Don't worry. I need to do the evolution of man and women. Hang on. James Cracknell's wife just texted to say that Matthew Pynsent won four golds. James Cracknell's wife, of course, is my friend and colleague Beverly Turner. He'll be back on LBC on Saturday. I told you everyone was listening. So go on. Evolution. Yeah, evolution. As far as I know, millions of years ago, homo sapiens men were hunter gatherers and we used to go out hunting for months, months on end, sleeping under the stars. And so our heat had to sort of spread all over our bodies to keep us warm at night. You're having a laugh. Wait, wait, wait. Whereas women, because they give birth and they need to keep all their heat closer to the womb and so they're much colder at night, they're like hotter showers, blah, blah, blah, and so their heat is sort of inverted and out. No, no, not even close. Oh, okay, yeah, just pluck that out of the ether. Did you just sort of. I mean, what I mean by that is there's no basis whatsoever for your answer, just speculation. No, I think I heard it from a teacher many years ago. Now you're just telling porkies Philip. No, honestly, you never. Problem is, the more I take the Mickey out, someone for giving a rubbish answer, the higher the likelihood is that in four minutes someone will ring in from a university and say, actually, I think you'll find Philip in Bristol was completely correct and you were very wrong to patronize and insult him in that fashion. But I'm backing. I'm backing myself on this one. That is pants, mate. All right? I've been telling that one for years. I can't, because also it's not true that women are colder in the night. Women are hotter in the night. Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah, maybe. Right, we shall see. But you know, you're not getting anything for that. 1252 is the time. Graham is in Orpington. Graham, question or answer? Answer. Go on. It's about the sailing question, the boats. Hang on a minute. How many. How many gold medals have you got? Well, I trade Matthew Pinsir everything he knows, but other than that. Did you really? No, not at all. Why have you put through Graham, who's probably never been in a boat, and Matthew Pinsent, who won four gold medals, is stuck on the end of his phone line weeping, weeping into the engage tone. I do work on a boat on a regular daily basis. Oh, all right. I've taken that back, then, Graham, over to you. You were mentioning earlier about the whole idea of having the engine at the back and then lifts the power up. That doesn't count if you think about sailing ships. Correct. Ship's always fairly level. Yeah, but it was always at the rear. If you're on flat water or if you're going against the tide, you could steer from the front and you'd be fine. Yes. If you tried to do it with the tide, you'd be stuffed. Because if you try to turn, your back would be swung right round. Of course it would. You can compensate for it from the rear. From the front, yeah. And that's why our man on his fishing trip thought he'd invented a new way of traversing water. And in fact, he was obviously going either with no tide or with the tide. Yeah. Yeah, that's what I'd reckon. Qualifications? I work for London duck tours. Oh, I like London, doctor. Yeah, that'll do. So you don't. I mean, that's not a boat, that's a. That's a lorry that floats. Yes, a lorry. So it's even harder to steer. Yeah, it must be. I like that. Yeah. Nothing to do with the turning circle, then? I don't believe so, no. I have to wait and see what pinsent. I'll have to wait and see what pinsent tweets. Yeah, but I'm going to give you a round of applause in the meantime as a holding tactic. Awesome. Well played. 1254 is the time. Lance is in Beckenham. Lance, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Lance, can you have thunder and lightning and snow at the same time as they both require different climatic situations. Yeah. Thunder, lightning and snow. You want the hat trick? Yeah. Because, you know, you can have thunder and lightning. You can probably have thunder and snow. Can you? Can you have thunder and snow? But can you have thunder and snow and. I don't know, why am I talking? Well, you. It's the best job you do. Very kind to us. If we check to see if I won that thing with Sarah cots. Does anyone know yet? I have to check before we go. Okay. Can you get thunder, lightning and snow all at the same time? Yes, please. You're on. I'll find out for you. I've only got four minutes left, but my goodness me, we should. Nick is in St John's Wood. Nick, question or answer? Answer about bar feed. Women carry more body fat than men. Whoa. I'm going to enter witness. Witness protection after this. Yes, you are, my friend. Women carry more body fat than men and therefore take longer to warm up. So they turn the heat up the same way as you have the row with your wife about the central heating. When you think it's fine, she says, turn it up because they take longer to warm up. Can you write. You can write your own punchline. Yes. I don't. But it's a. It's a simple thing, covering the body fat. Women take longer to warm up. I'm not a scientist, but I once had it explained to me. Like it. And is that your qualification? Somebody once explained it to you and. No, no, no. My qualification is that I love women. Get steady on, mate. I like it. That's. But, you know, as you said, that Sheila Fogarty walked through the door as if by magic, as if by clockwork, as if we'd scripted it. Round of applause for Nick. It is, yeah. There's more body fat biologically, so the sensitivity to cold will be. Will be different. Men are less sensitive to cold due to more muscle mass. Michelle has tweeted while Nick was talking, but Nick gets the round of applause. Daniel is in Liverpool. See, it's like we arranged today's program for Sheila Fergus. Daniel, question or answer? It's an answer. It's a slight stewards inquiry. James, which question? On the custard slide. I'll get lost. He asked the question and answered it. How can you have a steward? Because he violated the secret mystery hour rules. Well, did it? Yeah. True. Go on, then. So a custard slice. It depends on the bakery shop or the petitioner that does the actual slice. So certain companies, like Petissia, Valerie will have a huge slice. Yeah. And they'll huge a. Raise a really long serrated knife and they'll just cut the big slices. And how does. How come all the custard doesn't squeeze out? Well, because some companies will use a sharp knife and the paste would be nice and thin so you can cut right through and apply much pressure. Although some companies also use a mold with perfect lines in, like a tin, like you said. Yeah. And you'll cut in and it'll cut a perfect slice, not keep all the custard on the inside and the third way. So you do. So you push it down like a mold. Like a. Like a. Yeah. Like a guillotine type thing. Well, exactly. And then you get the nice slice of compartmentalized. Yeah, that makes sense. And then the final way, you can pop it in the fridge and it'll set up a little bit. And then before you actually sell it out, because if you notice in certain pastry shops. Yeah. They'll come in refrigerated units. Yeah. So the cream is always a little bit cooler. That's right. A bit firmer. And there you go, mate. You are a custard slice guru, I bet. Too many. What are your qualifications? I'm a Jbaker and I've spent too many hours on YouTube watching videos on how to to do it instead of researching slice. Because the pastries on a custard slice, that's quite hard. I presume that's quite tricky. It's not. It's not easy, but it love a custard slice. I'm so gonna have a custard slice after this. You've got to make sure that the sort of fondant on the top is nice and thin and then you can cut through it. Do you know, my mouth is actually watering? Not as a figure of speech is yours. Do you know, I love a custard slice, Daniel. I take a round of applause. Thank you very much. Squeezing. One more afters in Ilford. Question or answer? After aftar. Where is he? Is he not there? It's the last one. We're gonna get the snow, thunder, lightning. Is he there? Is he there we go. And go. Mark, Marcus is in maidenhead. Marcus, are you there? I am. Question or answer? Quickly answer. Bring it. Thundersnow. It's got all their albums. It's also known as a winter thunderstorm. Oh, yeah. It's very rare. You'll get lightning with it. But it is possible. But it is possible. It's only in, like, the most strongest of weather conditions. Qualifications will happen. I really like weather and I love the lightning storms we had earlier this week. I'm just fascinated by it. Let's go. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. Thank you for pushing me over the line in that sort of silly little competition thing that I barely mentioned. Just a bit of fun. Did you win? Yes. We'll be doing it all again tomorrow from ten. I'm James O'Brien and as you may have gleaned, Sheila Fogarty is here jabbering away from five minutes, which it shouldn't be. Thank you, James. From three, should the queen's huge personal.