How do I become a private detective? - 29 Jan 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC. Text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. And so it begins. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not available on any other radio program in the world. We speak of intellectual satisfaction. We speak of your curiosity being met, polished and then preserved forever, I hope, because this is your chance to seriously ring up and what do they call it? It's the hive mind, isn't it? This is it. We've invented. We invented the hive mind. They're always banging on about it in Internet circles. This is the original hive mind. You've got a problem, a question. You know there's an answer out there, but you want it to be provided by a human being, not by a search engine or a computer screen, not by an app or a technological gizmo. You want a fellow human being, you want to celebrate education. Well, you can. And in fact, you have to get involved in the usual way. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call. The way it works is this. You've got something bubbling away in your brain. A who, a why, a when, a where, a what or indeed a wherefore, and you haven't been able to find an answer. You might be able to google it, but life's too short sometimes for that sort of thing. Or indeed, actually, life's not short enough because you want to enjoy a bit of human interaction and because you actually have a little bit of knowledge. You're listening now in the hope that somebody else will ask a question to which you can provide the answer. If I give you a quick heads up on the sort of qualifications people employ when answering questions, then, very simply, the way I do it is this. When I say to someone who's running with an answer, what are your qualifications? You don't say, sort of bag of gymnastics award for, or, I got a GCSE in maths, you just say what it is. That explains why you've got that specific bit of knowledge. And regular contributors to mystery would tell us, oh, I'm a professor at the University of Brighton or at Middlesex universities, so that is one qualification. At the other end of the scale, plenty of people say, oh, I know it because I saw it on telly last week. So that is all you need. It's just why you've got the knowledge. You don't have to be a brain box, a genius or a university professor, you just need to have that little bit of knowledge so someone else will ring in and say, james, why do we do this? Or what's that about? Or where does that come from? Or what's the explanation? Why, why, why? And I'll say, I don't know. Yeah, if you're lucky, I'll say, I don't know. More chance that I'll probably try and answer it myself in the hope of accruing my own special mystery. Our round of applause. And if I get it right, everyone's a winner. If I don't know the answer, you ring in with the answer and you provide it and you get a mystery. That's it. I don't need to explain this anymore. Don't be dull. Don't never be boring. All right? Yeah, I know, pot, kettle, black, but never, ever be boring. So don't ring in with a question about driving. Seriously, the chances of it being interesting to the rest of us are pretty close to zero. Similarly, with repetition, I can't be cross with you for repetition because you've got no way of knowing what's gone before. But if we feel we have dealt with your question relatively recently, then we will politely invite you to move along and free up your phone line for somebody else. Okay? Anything else, Jones? Can you think of anything we missed out? We've done all the housework, we laid down all the ground rules, got all the rubric in place. I think that's pretty much it. The phone number zero. 345-606-0973 and as Jones reminds me, the management's decision is final. So if you, you know, if you get invited to move along, don't clog up our phone lines by ringing back again, we can get through two or 3000 calls in the space of an hour on a Thursday afternoon. So I'm not exaggerating when I say we need all the phone lines. We really do. Especially once we've got a few questions on the board and we start collecting answers. If you hear someone ask a question to which you do know the answer, the number obviously remains the same. Anthony's in Gillingham. You can kick us off this week. Anthony, what is your question? Hi there, James. What I would like to know is, why is the space dark? Why doesn't the whole space light up from the sun like it does on earth during daytime? Well, okay. Did you have your lights on last night in the house? I did, yeah. Right. Well, why wasn't it illuminating the garden four streets away? Yes. Well, obviously, whenever we go up into space and you see darkness in the pictures. Why is the sun not lighting up the whole space? For the same reason that your sitting room light doesn't light up your neighbor's garden four streets away. Okay, but then you would say that the closer you are to the sun, the brighter it will be. Well, yes. Am I being stupid or are you being stupid? I'm not. I'll go 50 50. I'll go 50 50 on this before I start getting too cocky. Space. Why isn't it? I'm saying the sun can't light up the whole of space because it's not powerful enough. Well, there's other stars that could also be brightening up as well. Yeah, but they're not and they don't. I mean, what do you think the answer would be? Is it. Is it the fact that light doesn't carry through space because it's constituted differently from our. I have no idea. Otherwise I wouldn't be calling out. You're all right, keep it friendly. That's all right. So hang on, just bear with me a moment. Who's being stupid, me or Anthony? No, I wouldn't either, actually. All right, jewelry's out, mate. Why is. Why is space dark? Is this the question? Make me sure I've got it right. Why is space dark when the sun is always shining? Yeah, all right. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you're not familiar with this feature, I probably should tell you that the cockier I get with a questioner and the more confident I am in accusing him of being stupid, the more guaranteed it becomes that in the space of the next ten or 15 minutes, someone who actually knows what they're talking about will ring in and make me look like a prune. So do stand by your speakers. Neil's in Bedford. Neil, question or answer? It's a question. James? Yes, mate? What causes wind to blow from a particular direction? Is pressure, isn't it? Well, no, pressure causes the wind, but why did it blow from the north or the south? Why did we get a west wind? Or. That's what I could understand. Yeah, I think I know this, but given that I came a bit of a cropper with the last question, I'm going to leave it on the board and let someone else answer it. So what defines what determines a wind's direction? Why doesn't all wind go in the same direction from one morning to the next? He can go in all points of the compass. Yes. Okay. Zero. 345-606-0973 some breaking news for you. Andy Murray has made it through to the final of the Australian Open after beating the czech player Thomas Burdick in four sets in their semi final. Sterling performance. I've got to tell you, I don't know if you're into tennis or not. Murray's on fire at the moment. He is playing the best tennis of his life, probably marginally better than you did in the run up to the Wimbledon and US Open finals that he went on to win. No guarantee he'll beat Djokovic in the final. If it is Djokovic, I think Djokovic is playing the defending champion, Stamford. I know what you're thinking, flipping out, James. You know your tennis. It's the one sport I do know, actually. I love tennis. I watch the ones that aren't Wimbledon. That's how you can tell a proper tennis fan. Watch the Australian Open get up early at the weekend, probably, but he's through anyway. He's in the final, which, if you're a betting man or woman, it might be worth a few quid if you can get a price on him. Jill's in Beckenham. Question or answer, Jill. It's a question. Carry on, Jill. You know, it's about measurement. Twelve inches are 1ft. And presumably a foot was called after it was when they standardized measurements. The foot was somebody's actual foot. Now, twelve inches is actually a men's size 16 shoe. And I know this because my son in law takes size 16 shoes and I measured his foot and it's exactly twelve inches. So whose foot, when they standardized the measurements, was actually a size 16? Because I don't think there's many of those around. Well, hang on, you're making a leap, aren't you, to presume that it refers the foot as a unit, refers in some way to the foot as the anatomical structure here, aren't you? Well, then, if that's not the case, why is it called a foot? Why is a foot called a foot? And if it is called. If it's because it was somebody's foot they measured, whose foot was it? You'd say, wow. Yes. And I think, you know, if you go back far enough, there are different levels of foot. Ancient civilizations used foot as a unit of measurement, but it wasn't always the same length that it is now. It was a different length. But that doesn't answer your question, does it? No. So your question is, is a foot anything to do with feet? And if not, why do we call a foot a foot? Yes. And why is it so long? Well, hang on. You can only have one question. But it's all linked. It's all the same thing. Well, twelve inches. I mean, in the olden days, no one would have had feet that big, would they? No, that's right. Because it's exactly twelve inches. Size 16. Okay. Yeah, you're on. I like this question. Why is a foot a foot? And whose foot was the foot that gave us the original foot? That's it. And if no one's foot gave us the original foot, why do we call a foot a foot? Yeah, there's something a foot here. Oh, thank you. I'm not sure that deserved the laughter that you graced it with. Jill, Wayne's in back. What? Hello, Wayne. Hello, sir. How are you? I'm all right. You missed a gig on Sunday. Well, there's. You know, I can't really leave the good woman in the state she's in at the minute. How long have you got? How close are we? We were two weeks to the due date on Sunday. Come here, mate. Come here. Give us a hug. Seriously, give us a hug. Nearly there. Any minute now. Is it literally any minute now? Yeah, pretty much. If I get a phone call, then I've got to turn around. Well, no, hang on. This is mystery. Well, I pulled over. Wayne, for those of you who wonder what the hell is going on, Wayne has become a good friend of mine after we met through the program, and he's about to become a dad for the first time. And he will allow me to say, despite blushing furiously as I say it, that you, my friend, are going to be a brilliant father. Thank you very much. It's very kind of you. Say, now, have I distracted you enough from what you rang in to tell us? No, it's an answer. Go on. To the space question. Yes. Light is invisible, and if there's nothing for it to reflect off, you can't actually see it. So once it's traveling through space, you can't see it. As soon as you put an object in the way of the light, it reflects. And then that's what you see. You don't actually see the light, you see what's reflecting off of. So we could see a planet, but you couldn't see anything at all if the planet wasn't there? Yeah, there's nothing for it to reflect off of it. Qualification qualifications? Just general science knowledge. Just general science know. Right. Okay, then. Speaking of general science knowledge, and having established your credentials as a regular contributor to Mistria, who do you think would be best qualified to comment on whether or not you've done the business here, if you've got Professor Howe on the other line, that's like the full circle. Well, here we go. Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And as if by magic, here he is. How's the boy doing, Professor Howell? How's the boy doing? He's fine. I'm hoping he's read it from one of books I sent him. This is getting a bit too cozy now, boys. Half a million people listening. I wonder what the hell we three are doing. Having a private chat on the radio. Go on. Has he got it completely right? I don't disagree with Wayne's science, but I do disagree with the cause and effect, because effectively, any point light, the energy and the light will dissipate in a cube relationship the further you get away from it. So we see the sun because we're very close to it, but every time you move away from the sun, it gets less and less and less. Perhaps you've seen the pictures from, I think, one of the mariners, which shows the sun as a pinprick of light in the distance. Yes. And consequently it's just a question of space is dark because there's far too much distance between all the stars. And that was one of the pieces of evidence that was put forward for the fact that our universe is expanding. Because if the universe wasn't expanding, there should be stars in all directions, and therefore it should be light all the time, day or night. And I mean, this nearest star, I think, is it two light years or three light years away? Hang on, I'll check with the expert. Wayne. Carry on, Professor Hal, a light year, and I didn't look it up, I calculated it as I was waiting for you, is 9000, 460 billion km. So that's an awful lot of space for light to fill. And if you imagine how you don't have to get very far from a point of light for it to be not much of a point of light anymore, as you were saying to the original caller. But that wasn't the comprehensive answer it needed. The other bit about reflection as well. I think the reflection is a bit of a red herring, actually. I don't disagree that it depends what the questioner meant. So to take the question literally, both of those answers work. I think even if you had things which you could reflect on in the intervening space, the energy of a light still dissipates. Are you talking about this? The nearest star to us in light years, the nearest star is the sun. The second nearest star is approximate centurial alpha Centauri, which is. That's about 4.2 light years away, isn't it? The fountain war knowledge. Wayne said it was two. Wayne, where are you getting your numbers from, pal? Books. Will you share it, lads? Is that all right? Yes, of course. Well done. Before you go. I'm right, aren't I, Hal? He's gonna make an amazing dad, this boy. He is. And I'm really happy for him. I'm very excited. You and me both. Keep us posted. Wayne will go. Cheers. All right. It's tearing up now. It's gone all emotional. He'll never admit it. It's 1217, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 21 minutes after twelve. Why is a foot a foot as a unit of measurement, not as an anatomical feature? And what makes the wind blowing in the directions that it blows? 345-606-0973 those are questions still in need of an answer on mystery air. If you hear me say the phone number, or indeed, if you hear me ask a caller to say it, because it should by now be burnt into your memory. On this program, it means I've got phone lines free. If you don't hear me say it, it means that at that moment in time, I don't have a phone line free. If I never say it, it means that we'll speak to the same three people every day. All day, every day. All day, every day. So that's why we say it. Zero. 345-606-0973 is two phone lines free. In fact, I got a mystery out question on Twitter today, which is, how many phone lines do you have, James? Because you sometimes mention that you've got one or two free and the answer is ten. Generally speaking, there are ten phone lines open and if you don't get through, it means all ten of them are full, as they are at the moment, but won't be the next time you hear me say the number stands in Kingsway. Stand. Question or answer? Answer, young man. You reckon? Yep. Come on, then. St Paul's is the origins of the foot measurement. What it was, was the cathedral used to have a post outside and we all, churches and cathedrals in those days used to have marketplaces outside, because people used to actually go to church and come out and they used to do it and it become a standard size for selling wood and cloth. And when was St Paul's? When was St Paul's built? Well, the first one was built in, under the Romans, actually had a cathedral there. But the first cathedral was about 604. The Romans brought the foot with them in the first century ad. Well, that's all I was. I was. I read that. So, I mean, you're not going to get arrested, but you're just wrong. No, yeah, well, not according to my book. Well, what book? Well, it was. The measurement was. Was at the foot, because I actually asked the cannon who come out of the. The cathedral, the new one, which is there now, and I asked her where it was and she said it was on the old one that burned down. Well, you're just getting confused now. No, I'm not. I am. I mean, I'm just getting confused. Yeah, you are. No, you are wrong, because they had it in ancient Greece and they had it in ancient Rome and it was called a foot. And I think I've solved the problem of why it's so enormous. And it's actually quite obvious if you think about it. But you. You've obviously got some historical accuracy in what you say, but that is not where we get a foot from. A foot goes right back to ancient Rome, ancient Greece. Oh, well, all I know is what I read. It's called pus in Greek, the push push. Yeah, but it's called a foot in England. Push push. Yeah, but it's got nothing to do with St Paul's. Well, the measurement was down there. Yeah. You know what, that is actually? Porky's alarms just gone off. Not mine. No. Trying to reverse out of this conversation, aren't you, Stan? I know your game. It was definitely at the bottom of the foot. That's interesting. And that's. That's interesting. I'll find out more about that. But in terms of why is a foot called afoot? It's got nothing to do with St Paul's. I don't know what I mean. It has got. In fact, the answer is clear now to people listening. If not me and Stan, it will be to others. Stan mine. There you go. 1225. Eddie's in Dartford. Eddie, question or answer? Can I ask you, James? Come on, then. Wind direction. Yes. It boils down basically to a couple of bits, first one being what they call the Coriolis effect. So basically, the sun is our generator. It cools all our weather systems. Yes. And it heats at the equator quicker and hotter than it does at the poles. So air at equator rises and it draws in the colder air, the colder air from the poles. And that gives us. Northern hemisphere goes one way, southern hemisphere, same as if you put a matchstick into a boulder, ball out, let the plug out matchstick will spin one way, southern hemisphere will spin the other way. In addition to that, you have, obviously, the earth's rotation and the land it crosses. The land it crosses makes a bit of difference. But your next bit is high and low pressures. High pressure. The wind will always go in an anti clockwise direction and a low pressure goes clockwise. So depending where you are into relation of these pressures will give you the wind direction for where you are. Qualifications? I'm a Paraguay instructor. Part of the exam. We sit for our instructors. Mate, that's one of my favorite ever. I never know what you. I thought you might say. I think you had it on a month ago, James. I just remember it from them. But then you got all technical in the middle of it. I'm a paragliding instructor. If you want one man on this planet to know wind inside out, I would cautiously suggest it's a paragliding instructor. It would be. James. The wind is our biggest enemy, our biggest friend in the sport. Good grief. He's doing poetry now as well. This is unbelievable. This is one of the best answers ever, Eddie. Round of applause. How scary is. Sorry, it's all getting a bit personal today. How scary is paraglide? I've always fancied it. Your first couple of flights, maybe? Yeah. Need to check your underwear, maybe. But after, if you've got good instruction. Are you married? Have you got a partner? Yes. Married with children. And then she's all. She's all right with it, is she? Is. She's had a couple of goes as tandem as a passenger. Oh, nice. Yeah. It's a sport I enjoy and I travel the world doing it. So I need to know what's going on. Good man. And. Well, there you go. I'm sure it's achieved more already than this, but it's just. Aren't you a mystery? A round of applause as well. I don't think my wife would let me do that. I just say that's my excuse for bottling it. No. I'd love to have a go at paragliding, but misses O'Brien won't let me. She'll ring in now and go. Yes, I would. I'll buy you the ticket myself. Mark's in Battersea. Mark. Question or answer? Afternoon, James. It's a question. Carry on. You know the finger you're wearing your wedding ring on? Why that particular finger? Why not any other of the fingers? Because there's a vein in your finger. In that finger. It goes all the way to your heart. Of the other five fingers, the vein is not in it as well, is it? No. It'd be a big flip in vein, wouldn't it, Mark, if it was the size of your hand? There's a vein that goes from your finger, from your ring finger all the way to your heart. And that's why you put a ring on that finger to denote commitment and love and marriage. No, I don't think so. You having me on, James? I think. I don't think so. Okay. You give me a better answer. What's your qualifications, James? My qualifications are general knowledge, degree of genius and deep, deep romantic impulses. My friend, I do occasionally indulge in flights of fancy. Not much during mystery out. To be honest with you, I certainly wouldn't do it on a question like this. I can answer your question honestly. My qualifications are that we've had this question before and I remember the answer. Okay, you just wanted a bit more theater, didn't you? You wanted a bit more showbiz. You didn't want to ring in, ask a question, get an answer, go home. You wanted. You wanted to big your part up. You wanted a bigger role to play in the show this week. Not really. Not really. I just. I was just wondering, of the five fingers, why that particular thing? I was just wondering. That is your answer. Hand on heart. Get it? Hand on heart. Hand on heart. Get it? Get it? Hand on heart. You see? That is your answer. Okay. All right. Round applause for me. I do say so, and I am right, I think zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call. A lot of you enjoying it this week? I'm very glad about that, actually. So am I. And I could reply. Me, too. To almost every nice message coming into the studio today. So. Me, too. When Jill in the last hour said, oh, this is one of those days where I feel like we've got two brains arguing with each other. I say, me, too. Me, too. There are other things as well. I love mystery. That three way conversation you just had is the reason why I look forward to it. Me, too. Me, too. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number. I've got some phone lines for you now. If you've got a question, I need it. Actually, we've done wind. We haven't done a foot. Stan had a crack. Why is a foot called a foot done? The vein, done? The ring. Got anything else to answer? If we have, we'll remind ourselves of it after this mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1234 is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What are we doing? Mystery hour. What does mystery hour involve? Well, you should know by now, but if you don't, it's quite straightforward. People ring in with questions, other people ring in with answers. Except it's a lot more fun than that. 1234 is the time if you want to get involved. If you've got a question that needs an answer, zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you've got an answer to a question that's already been on the board. Which would just be the foot question, wouldn't it? Why is a foot called a foot? When Jill measured a foot, her son in law has a foot that is size 16 and that's twelve inches. So where did they get that foot from? There's no way anyone was wandering around with twelve inch sized feet in ancient Rome, which is where we seem to have traced it back to, despite stans attempts to distract us by directing us towards St Paul's Cathedral. Deckman's been in touch because Stan's had a cannon at St Paul's Cathedral. Told him that that's where it came from. And Declan's been in touch, saying that cannon should be fired. James, this sounds like one of your jokes. I'll take that as a compliment. John's in Croydon. Question or answer? John. Hi. It's a question. Yeah. How do you become a private detective? See, the fact that you have to ask that question means that you personally are supremely unqualified to become one. It's just all been a. Yeah. Dream job of mine since I left school and ten years later, I still failed private detective. But I would have thought if you were going to be a very good private detective, then over the course of the last ten years, you might have worked out a way to become one. Well, yeah, like, every job I've had has been through someone I know. And I've tried ringing, you know, lots of agencies asking for experience. I've offered to do it voluntary, but no one like unpaid. Private detection? Yeah. So you found private detectors in the yellow pages and offered to work for them and they said no? Pretty much, yep. No. When you were on the phone to those private detectives, did you ask any of them how you become a private detective? Yeah, a couple of them said they are ex military, cousins. Said their father done it before and that kind of stuff. So, actually, as is often the case, and as I mentioned half an hour ago, the more convinced I am that a question is silly, the more likely I am to look silly in the next. So what you're really asking is, how do I get into it? Yeah, yeah, I take it back. I don't think the fact that you had to ring in and ask that question means you're supremely unqualified. Maybe you don't need any qualifications at all. Maybe you can just. You just stick an adler in the paper and say, private detective, phone John in Croydon. Yeah, that's me. I don't know if there's any. So what we need, we need a private detective to ring in and tell us. Yeah, that'd be perfect. Oh, I'll do that. I reckon we can do that, can't we? If you build it, they will come. That's the motto of the prayer. You in work at the moment? I'm currently unemployed, unfortunately. So you mean this is quite an urgent question, then? Yeah, yeah, I'm just trying to think if I've got any, but I really want a career. So are you good at surveillance? Yes. You know, it's not like the Bourne supremacy. You're not chasing spies through the streets of London. Most of the time, you're sitting in a cold car for 14 hours, hoping to catch a glimpse of the woman who's doing the dirty on her husband. Or vice versa. Yeah, you still fancy it? Yep. Or you'll be charged by an insurance company. We're trying to find film footage of someone who's claiming a massive insurance payout. And they want you to get footage of them on their trampoline. Yeah, yeah. Still. You still interested? Yeah, I've always wanted to know. Disguises or anything like that. It's not like Sherlock Holmes. You can't dress up as a woman. Yeah, all right. Okay. Let's get John a job. Seriously, I want to get John a job as a private detective. Oh. 345 60. Or at least a answer to his question of what he has to do to become. 10 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Terry is in Chelsea. Terry, question or answer? Well, I'm not too sure, really. It's to say that I think you was wrong with your. One of your answers that you gave about the wedding ring. What a wag. What a wag you are. Go on, then. What did I get wrong? What it was I heard about the wedding ring. Yeah, the vein. And I thought, that's lovely. I thought, I've never heard of that. Yeah. Yes, I googled, I'm afraid, because I've never heard of it and apparently. No, no, no, mate, I don't know no, sorry, mate. You did what? I know. I didn't really. Oh, no. That's it. You're off. You're not. You just. That is the only rule of me. You're not allowed to do that. What? Ridiculous. How did you get through? No, you didn't. It's not even. Terry. Terry, I just want to prove you. Stop talking. Michael's in Clapham. Michael. Question or answer? Question. James. What is it? You know, like when you name a town, like, say, Clapham, for instance. There's Clapham. South Clapham, North Clapham Common, but there's no Clapham west. There's Croydon. South. South Croydon. East Croydon. West Croydon. But there's no North Croydon. Yeah, North Dulwich. Why don't they use the four points of the. The, you know, come from compass? Because that. Because they haven't built four stations. No, it's not stations. It's not. It's not all about. It is. It's towns. No, it isn't. It's stations. Think about it. Yeah, okay, think about it. There is a west Croydon, but it just hasn't got a state or an east Croydon. It just hasn't got a station. Whichever example you choose, it's only stations. You're talking about Clapham. North Clapham town, Clapham Junction. Yeah, but. Okay, so if you've got a place, it's got four corners, it's got a north or south. Even this studio's got a north or south and east and a west. North studio. East studio, west studio, south studio. But it doesn't get a name unless you build a station there. Okay, I didn't realize that. I think that's true, isn't it? Does it make sense to you? Not really. Well, give me your examples again. Give me your examples again. All right. North Dalwich, East Dulwich, right? Yeah. This west Dulwich, but there's no South Dulich. They've got a Dulwich village, but there must be a South Dulich. What is south of North Dulich? But there isn't. But there's no but. There's no signpost to say. But there's no station there. There's no station in Dulwich village. No, it's a village. That's not a point of the compass, which is what you're asking about, right? I think it stations. Unless I've misunderstood the question. Okay. Jones is looking at me as if I've got this wrong. I don't like that look. What do you think? Is what I think you're wrong. But I can tell that you're just putting it a little bit more politely than some other people have done in the past. And I like that. I respect you for it and I'm grateful. But you know what I always say, you eliminate the impossible. Whatever you're left with, however implausible or improbable it must be that. It must be the answer. You've got stations in Croydon, east, south and west, but you haven't got a north. But there is still a north Croydon. It just hasn't got. I think it's stations. But you're not going to buy it from me, are you? So I'll find you someone you will buy it from. Right. 1241. Annie is in Woking. Question or answer, Annie. It's a question. Yes. I love your show, by the way. It's all right, isn't it? Yeah. Something that's been bothering me for a long time. Oh, yeah? Yeah. What happens, you know, when you go and stay in a hotel or b and b or something? You always get a mini packet of soap. You do. What happens to the soap? Do they just throw them away after, like, two or three uses? Because then that's just daft. You mean you get. You get your own soap and you open it and you use it, and then if you were to check in the next day, you'd have another soap wrapped up. What do they do with all the old soaps? Yeah. And then surely they must get recycled. But if they do, what's it get recycled into? Or they just get thrown away. I like. I like that question. I have also wondered about that in the past. I just sort of thought, what do they do with it? What do they. Same with jam, actually. Not just soap, but the jams, easier. You know, the little jams you get in a hotel and you never eat a whole one, you have a half of it, you spread it on your crumpet and then you eat your crumpet and there's half a pot of jam and you come down for breakfast the next morning. There's no half eaten pots out there in your. In your basket, but that they probably take to the chef. The chef will use it in the kitchen. He might do a baked well tart. He could use that. You can use jam for anything. What can you use soap for? Maybe they melt it all down and turn it into new soaps. But do they? I don't know. I would as well. Who's going to know this? I don't know. Chambermaid, hotel owner? We're already. We're still waiting for a private detective. We've got a private detective in. Yeah. Any signs of any private. No. You don't know anything about private detective work, do you, Annie? No, I don't, sadly. All right, so we'll stay with soap. What happens to all those soaps in hotels that no one ever finishes, but you always get a brand new one when you check in? I love that question. And it reminds me of jam. In fact, it reminds me of the question I asked last week, but completely forgot to ask again this week, even though I never got an answer to it. Which is why today. I've got a long day today. So this morning, lying in bed, you find yourself, oh, I wish I didn't have to get up. I wish I didn't have to get up. And then Saturday morning, when I don't have to get up, I wake up at the same time, and I won't feel that same desperation to stay in bed. I wanted to know last week why that was. I don't think anybody knows. It's one of the great mysteries of our time. If you're a private detective and you can answer the question about how one becomes a private detective, call zero 345-606-0973 now, you can do it undercover if you want. And if you know what happens to all the soap in hotels after you've left it there, call the number now. And if you know why a foot is called a foot. I know that now. I've worked it out, and it seems to be true, but I want to hear it from someone else. Jason's in tooting. Jason, question or answer? Question, please. Come on. Okay. You see the sun, right? Yeah. And the planet goes around the sun. Yeah. It takes a year to go around the sun. Why is it hot? Like, say, places. Not the best phone. It's not the best phone line, this Jason. I don't know if there's anything you can do to improve it. Can you hear me now? I can, yeah. But it's still not ideal. So hang on. So you do with the sun. The relationship between the sun and the earth is established. What's the question? Why is it hot in the Caribbean or other places in the cold open, like in Europe or America? What? So why are some countries hotter than others? Yeah, basically hot. And some countries are cold. It's the equator, isn't it? Yeah, but the closer you are to the equator, the hotter you are. But the planet rotates. Pardon? Yeah. This is why I'm worried about the phone line, is. I think I've told you the answer. You think? Well, I know. Yeah, think about. Okay. All right, let me do it like this. Okay, let me do it like this. Where are you now? Are you at home? No, I'm at work. Okay. Are you inside or outside? I'm outside. I'm driving. Yeah. All right. Have you got the heating on? No. All right. When you go home tonight and you're sitting watching the telly and the radiator in the corner of the room is on. Yeah. Why are you going to be warmer in the sitting room than you are in your bedroom? Because I'm away from it. Yeah. Yeah. But we can still see the sun, and the sun is still shining on. Yeah, but it's not as hot. You can still see it's not as hot as it is if it's nearer to you. Yeah. Because it's closer to the equator. So you're closer to the equator, which means you're also closer to the sun. All right. After research. Okay. What do you mean you have to research? You just did. It's. I think the phrase you're looking for one of us is looking for might be axial inclination. Okay. So it's about the fact that the earth is round, and therefore, by definition, if you hold up a ball and a candle, there's nothing you can do to make that ball equally close to the candle. Every single point on that ball is going to be different distance from the candle. Right? Yeah. And that's why axial inclination. Is it because. No, but I've just told you why. Yeah. All right. All right. Nice one. Okay, fine. My. There you go. Round of applause, please. David's been in touch. Actually, I think you might know this. Dave. This is David, who writes all the bond music. David Arnold, the composer. He says, if the sun is so hot, why is space freezing? Which takes us back a little to the. To the earlier cry. These space ones, I never know whether we're being really clever or really stupid. So I'll err on the side of stupid. It's 1240 712 52. Crikey. Even more. More gender politics coming up with Sheila. It's fascinating. You can almost knit these stories together as well. But I'll tell you what's going to be the watchword now is this thing, mannanism. All these men out there who think somehow that they are victims, that they'll be having a field day at the suggestion that female criminals should be treated differently from male criminals. I have to say, of all the mindsets, I find most baffling when the conversations we have together that these, these weird, weird, angry men who blame women for everything are even stranger to me than people who blame foreigners for everything. Nicky's in Tunbridge Wells. Nicky, question or answer? Hello. It's an answer. You asked about private detectives. Yes. And two years ago when I was an 18 year old I took a temporary job in a bailiff's office. Yes. And it ended up being about six month job. And one day the chap that worked as a private detective within the company came in to see and asked me to come and work with him and. But I wouldn't recommend it because he ended up in a pub car park in south London with a machete in his head. So you can't. I think I'm familiar with that story and I won't talk about. No. So I'm not. Can you give the fellow who wants to be a private detective any advice or not? Okay, that's fine. It's fine. Nikki, take care. Anthony's in harrow. Anthony, what would you like to say? It's in answer to your question about why on the day that you don't have to go to work, do you want, do you want to get out of bed early instead of having a lion? Yes. It's because subconsciously you don't want to waste the day. No, it isn't. I'm happy to know. I'm happy to waste the day. Seriously, my favorite days, the best days are wasted days. There's no way that I'm lying there thinking, oh, why can't I have a line? And my brain is subconsciously going, get up, there's loads to do. You could be cleaning out the henhouse, you could be putting out the bins, you could be polishing the kitchen floor, you could be doing all those jobs misses O'Brien's got written on the fridge, you could be building the new hut for the recycling bins. It's not that, mate. Okay, but on the days that I have to go to work I get, I, you know, I want to stay in bed, but on the days that I don't have to go to work and I could potentially have a lie in, I'm up and about because I know I can be more productive even if I don't have things to do. Yeah, I want to make the most of the day. Yeah, but this is where you and I diverge, my friend, because I would be making the most of the day by staying in bed. That's why I want to do it. You're thinking, oh, there's better things I could be doing? I am lying there thinking there is nothing I would rather do than go back to sleep now. But I can't. And yet, on work days, when I wake up, sometimes the alarm will go off at 20 to seven and I'm back asleep by quarter two. Not a lion. So it's not that you're just a better person than me? I wouldn't go that far. No, I would. I would. You're a better person. You're probably a better husband. You married yet? I am, yeah. Yeah. Better husband. Got any kids? No. All right, well, if you. If you want them, if you have them, you'd probably be a better dad than me as well. Because I am lying there thinking of nothing that I would rather be doing than lying there. And yet my body won't let me. Makes me get up. I don't get me wrong. Before anybody starts sending in violin concertos, I usually manage to battle through to the other side. I get up, I potter about, have a cup of coffee, then I go back to bed with a book, determined to go back to sleep. And it often works. Douglas is in West Hampstead. Douglas, question or answer? Answer. Are you alright there, Douglas? Yeah, fine. Carry on. Hotel soap? Hotel soap without the soap. Well, a very small amount of it will be used in staff areas. Yes. And in public areas, such as cloakrums, that sort of place. Of course, the rest of it is thrown away. Years ago, there was a market for reselling it. That market has gone reselling it to be sort of melted down and reshaped. Yes. But now it's presumably made abroad and the production costs are so low, it's cheaper to chuck it all away. Correct qualifications? I retired a few years ago, but up to then, there wasn't. You. You were a hotelier, were you? I was a purchasing manager for a group of hotels. Well, that's pretty close to perfect. You haven't done any private detective work on the side, have you? Sadly, no. Well, you would say that, wouldn't you, Douglas? Round of applause for Douglas, please. Just chuck it away. There you go. I mean, it was hard to come up with another answer, to be honest with you. I couldn't quite imagine there was a massive market for second hand soap. In fact, even the very phrase sounds a little wrong. Secondhand soap. What else haven't we answered? We haven't got. I promised him we'd get in some work. We just got slightly strange lady. 0345, you've got three minutes left. Two minutes left. Unless Sheila Fogarty knows about private detection, but her facial expressions suggest that it's not. It's not one of her previous career paths. If you do know how you can become a private detective, ring me now on zero 345-606-0973 otherwise we're just going to have to leave it hanging. Claire is in Holloway. Question or answer, Claire. It's a question. Yes. Very late, I know. Unlikely to get. Get an answer to it unless I happen to know it. Well, you might know it well. Sheila. Should we let Sheila join in or not? All right. Sheila's on the. Sheila's on the mic as well. Okay. When you've got a very, very horrible stinking cold or an awful flu. She had. This is uncanny. Go on. I've just had one, too. Why is it that you feel so awful in the evening and at night much, much worse than in the day, Doctor Fogarty? I suspect it's because you're not on the go. Oh, no. No. Do you think? Yeah. You just stop, don't you? You stop. Your body prepares for no distraction. Things function more slowly. You do. You not just notice it more because you haven't got the distraction. I think you just notice it more. You think? I'm Claire. I've got to go. I've got a private detective on the other line. Oh, God. And also, you know, Sheila's bigger parts up now. Joke. Joe's in Islington. Joe, question or answer? Answer, please, Mike. Carry on. Joe. Um, there is a school of private detectives in Greenwich. Is there really? Yep. How do you know? Because I found it, on my knowledge. Ah, so you're not a private detective yourself, but you have encountered the school while driving around? I have, yes. All right. Well, this then, takes me back to my original suspicion that the fellow asking the question, by dint of asking the question, had kind of precluded himself from private detection as a career. Because he. Exactly. He probably could have found evidence of the school in Greenwich. Yeah, exactly. Maybe he needs a bigger magnifying glass. Ten years, he said he'd been thinking about it, but he's never heard of that school in Greenwich. Is it well hidden? Is it behind a big hedge? Yeah. It's clandestine. Yes. Round of applause for Joseph. Round of applause for Sheila. Quite likes it. Round of applause for me. That's it for another. What? That's it for another. Ms Chow. The next voice you'll hear does still belong to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much, James.