Why do so many people struggle with H?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, gosh, I forgot as well. Four minutes after twelve is a time. And so did you, I guess, because the conversation we were having in the last hour was so serious and heavy duty. You forgot because for the first time I can remember in a long, long, long time, the switchboard still has two spaces on it. At four minutes past twelve on a Thursday, normally you start ringing in from about ten to. Sometimes I allow myself to get a bit irritated by the fact that you're taking up phone lines that could be used by people still keen to contribute to the conversation that we're having in the hope of getting in early on mystery hour. So that is your call to arms. There is still one phone line free. What is, Miss Jarrett? Well, it's only your weekly opportunity to achieve the source of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. And I'll give you another one. Actually, I will reintroduce the pledge that you will laugh out loud at least once between now and 01:00. If you don't, I'll give you a full refund on the ticket price. Okay. The best contribution of the week my favorite contribution of the week will win a mystery hour board game coming soon, hopefully to a Christmas tree near you. If you are not lucky enough to win one, you can buy one. Oh, will wonders never cease at mysteryhour dot co dot UK or in John Lewis and other shops? I think Argos soon. If not. If not. If it's not there already. But it's a brilliant game. Go and have a look at the Amazon reviews. And as with all my stuff on Amazon, including my books, do have a look at the one star reviews as well. Some people are confused about what Gammon is when we use it as a description of a certain mindset of people. Some of the one star reviews for my books and indeed for my board game on Amazon. You can smell gammon as you read it. You actually get a whiff of Gammon up your nose sometimes you'll find yourself craving pineapple. So strong is the whiff of Gammon as you read some of the ones. Well, all of the one star reviews on my books and board game over on Amazon. So Mister dot co dot UK or Amazon or whatever you want, just, just, you know, you know, do yourself a favor. Full terms and conditions for that competition, because it is a kind of competition, even though it's just me giving away a board game to my favorite contributor to mystery. Can be found at LBC Co dot UK. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Should we kick straight on and not bother explaining what it is? Should we do that? I think we could do that. Anne's in whitstable and question or answer? Question. Carry on. I was a primary teacher for 30 years, for my sins. That's a statement. And anybody who's ever been involved in primary education will tell you that on a windy day the children are noisier, they are wilder, it's a lot harder to get them to concentrate and engage and I don't know why. Are you sure? Is this. I mean, the problem is, this question has parameters that I have to establish independently, I think. Well, it's one of those, if you ask any teacher, I mean, my great aunt, bless her, she was a teacher in the fifties and sixties and I mentioned it in passing one day and she said, well, yes, of course it is like I was stupid. It is a well known phenomenon. Obviously it depends on other things as well. But in general, if it's a windy day, the children are. And I still call them children, by the way. I don't call them young people, it's just well known. Windy children. Children on windy days. Well, I mean, could it just. Well, I have no idea. Why? Must there be a reason? Well, I don't know. I suppose. Science. Science, yeah. Well, we get very strange phone calls, particularly at night on LBC when there's a full moon. Well, maybe that's. It's just. All right, let's phrase the question another way. You don't have to. You don't have to. I mean, the problem is I can't. I can't have bunches, I can't have loads of primary school teachers ringing in to say that's nonsense. I've never heard so much rubbish in my life. I have to work on the presumption that you and your great aunt are correct on this. Well, I think I'm correct. All right, that's good enough for me. Okay. Is there an explanation? And if so, what is it you're on? Is there an explanation? Is it even a thing? But don't ring in to answer the first bit. How would you even find. I mean, I don't know. So why do children. Why are children at school misbehaving more on windy days? Zero. 345-606-0973 Stephen's in Leeds. Stephen, question or answer? Question. Jim. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I've started wearing a hat. What sort of hat? It's like a peaky blinders style affair. Very nice. About six different. Six different styles. And what I've noticed since I've been wearing this hat is when. When I go up to someone and I say hello, I'll touch the peak of the hat and give them a. Give them a slight nod, or maybe even take the hat off, especially indoors. I'm just wondering where the etiquette comes from. From that. Because I was thinking it could be maybe kind of a military related. Well, I think this has come up before, right. And I think I know the answer to this. Go for it. I think it goes back to knights lifting their visors on their armor to show that we were friends. You know, we're not having a fight if we're going to have a joust, Stephen. I'm keeping my visor down, mate. You can be sure of that. But if we're going to go for a cup of mead together, I'm lifting my visor up. But why then? If that is the reason, why is there an ingrained human instinct to do that? Because it's gone back to that. So the lifting of the visor became a thing. And then when we stopped wearing armor, we carried on lifting the visor, even though there was no visor there. We tipped our hat, we doffed our hat a bit. I'll take that. I think it's a correct answer. Qualifications. It's come up before and we went definitive on it. I think it might even be in the board game, that one. Right, I'll take on that. Thank you, Steven. Next week, top man. I'll see you there on the 28th. Looking forward to it. Cheers, mate. Take care. Bye. Take care of yourself. There you go. Round of applause for me, please, Keith. Come on, mate. Come on, mate. I like that one as well, because it's a sort of one that you remember once. I just proved once, you know, you know. Chrissie's in Glasgow. Chrissy. Question or answer? Hi, James. Well done in the new book. Question. Yes, question. It's annoying the hell out of me. What could it be? You know the gelatin capsules that you get for your washing, for your laundry, that you throw in most of these things, like pods. Yeah, they call them. And you throw them in the machine and, you know. And they dissolve in water? Yeah. The fact that they dissolve in water. Why don't they dissolve. Stand alone. Because they're filled with liquid. What stops them from dissolving into a grease? You mean why don't they dissolve from the inside? Yes. Yes. What is it about? Because I would expect if there was some kind of membrane that it would be water soluble? That's quite a question. Because I was going to say it's got an inner coating that stops it from dissolving. But then it wouldn't dissolve from the outside either, would it? Precisely. Precisely. So I. Well, I never. Yeah, there you go. Well, I never. I mean, it shows you the exciting. The exciting life of it. Well, I know. Well, everyone's wondering about this now. So you've spread the. You've spread the mystery that. I mean, the. Would it be. The ph of what's inside it is going to be different from water, isn't it? The ph of the detergent is going to be different from water. So it may be that. I mean, it must be that. Actually, I can't think of any other example. Well, maybe not. Maybe not just that. I was thinking, the composition of the chemicals within the liquid, does that change? Could. Do you know, and the viscosity. Oh, I love that one. Sorry? The thickness of the fluid. Why are you saying sorry? We did a phone in two weeks ago about women saying sorry when they don't need to. I love the word viscosity. Don't change it. You're on. I like that a lot. I'm just being a bit viscous. Because we're all a bit viscous sometimes. Depends what you did last night. Yeah, but there's no. I love it for me as a housewife, to check this. All I know is that if I've ever touched gone in the bag with wet hands. Wet hands, it gets gooey really quickly. Yeah. And they stick together. It's a right old palaver, isn't it? Right, you're on. Why don't they dissolve? Why doesn't the liquid inside them dissolve the membrane around them? Zero. 345-606-0973 Chrissy, do you want to know something funny? Go for it. Millions of people are agreeing with Anne about children misbehaving on windy days. Basically every primary school teacher in the country seems to be listening today. They just get all excited. I think it's just. I'm not expecting you to answer it. I'm just letting you have the news first. Breaking news, Chrissy. Yeah, I think it's an overstimulation thing. Could be an overstimulation thing, we'll find out. Speaking of overstimulation, a lot of people are trying to answer your question by referencing temperature so it dissolves when it's hot. But that doesn't work at all because of the point you just made about your wet hands. 1213 is the time Ollie is in Watford. Ollie, question or answer? As a question, please. Carry on, Ollie. So I'd like to say when you read those one star reviews. Yes. To via that. It's very much. You could smell. It is indeed a distinct whiff of gammon. It's quite not unpleasant, actually. Not unpleasant. Carry on, Ollie. Absolutely lovely. We were at your show at Islington and it was great. So it was one of the maddest nights of my life, that, mate. It was so special. What do you think? Stick around to get the. I think you and Stuart Lee should become the next Lauren and Hardy. Well, I think. I think I'd be the very junior partner in that comment. What did you think when Stewart walked onto the stage? Because I don't think people knew it was going to be him, did they? No, absolutely no idea. I mean, I. Cuz I listen back, actually, after the show. This is back to his full disclosure. Yes. Where he sort of says, no one knows me. Well, not true. That's. You said not true. He sort of is adamant that he gets in cabs and sort of. He says, I was doing comedy and they say, oh, where are you supporting? Or whatever. Which is amazing because he's such a great gasp that went around the room because I was still backstage. I could hear. Hear it, let alone feel it. It was such a lovely moment for people to realize they were dead. And the cartoonist was an amazing touch. Chris Riddell, absolute legend. Absolute legend. It was such a. When you got to some of the later, the later topics, and I remember specifically around Elon Musk. Yes, I know I've got all those. I've got all those drawings. I gave Stuart a few, but I've got almost all of those drawings and there's such a tree. I'm going to get a bunch of them framed up anyway. We're making people who couldn't make it to the group question. Yes. Yes. Is. So when we have a leap year, why today added to February when it's December? Well, because it already has an unusual. And I know it's the shortest, but is that. Is that the only reason why. Okay. No, I don't reason why. I mean, why kind of feed it so I don't have too many. I can't ask too many questions. But February is the shortest month. But when we have an extra day in the year, because it's a deep year. Why is it then added to the shortest month? No, I like. No, it's a good question. It can't. That can't be the answer, can it? Because it's the shortest month? Well, I mean, it might be, but it needs to be explained. You can't just say because it's the shortest. So April is the cruellest month, of course, and February is the shortest month. Thank you, Ollie. Thank you for the kind words it is. 1216. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. Anne is categorically correct. I have been truly inundated with teachers, by teachers attesting that on windy days children misbehave. They are out of control. I was listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour about children getting excited on windy days, writes Patricia from Croydon. I taught in secondary school for 34 years and I dreaded gusty windy days as the children became particularly hyper. Just like birds becoming frantic before a storm. So the caller was quite right. It is a well known phenomenon. Do do do do do in teaching. Well, there you go. Why. Why do children become. I'm going to use the word particularly hyper or wild on windy days? Why don't detergent capsules dissolve, given that they've got liquid on the inside? And why do we add a day to February as opposed to any of the other months when it's a leap year? Richard's in Shrewsbury. Richard, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. In English, we have a lot of collective nouns, particularly for animals, but also for other things which are quite sort of descriptive or poetic or flowery. Do any other languages do that, or is it just us? What do you mean? So we have. Rather than just having heard or flock or. You mean lots of different words. Oh, sorry. Yes, of course. I understand. Yeah. So, non generic collective nouns. So, like, one of the ones is crash of rhinos, which I think is what I really like. I'm sure it doesn't directly translate, but do other languages have, like, an equivalent, or do they. I don't have the Latin. I thought I might be able to come up with one of French. Oh, that's a lovely question. Yeah. I mean, all you need is one answer, isn't it, to be affirmative? I don't think anyone can answer in the negative, because you'd have to be familiar with every language on earth. That's true. And I. Yeah, I think that's unlikely. Oh, yeah. I would love to hear if, you know, if, like, the Welsh had a collective now for kangaroos. And why. What is the collective now for kangaroos? I don't know either. I bet there is one there. Of course there would be. Well, yeah, but that's in English, isn't it? Albeit Australian. Thank you. No, I like that one. So, collective nouns in foreign languages. I wonder if there is. It's lovely. It comes from the Anglo Saxon, then the Germans probably do. I don't know. It's on the list. Richard, great question, great question. Zara is in Kingston. Zara, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Hopefully it's an answer. So it's about why children go wild on windy days. Oh, yeah. So I'm a child psychotherapist and part of my training, I had to observe a two year old for a year in a nursery, and I noticed exactly the same thing, that when it was windy, this room full of toddlers were absolutely, absolutely bananas. So at the time, I googled it and Google said that there was no science behind it, so I had to think, based on what I know about child development and their brains and everything, and I think that they are much more susceptible to the environment. So, kind of much in the same way that parents might try and have an argument, but without raising their voices, children can sense that. That tone and that there's just a feeling, or like, I know something. I've got a four and a half year old. Whenever we're packing to go on holiday, he loses his mind because he can just sense that there's some sense of urgency. So there's a. What do they call it? There's a disruption in the something. It's a disregulation. So I think it's a primitive thing that when it's windy, it might be that some children seek comfort because that unstable atmosphere makes them feel a bit scared. And some children, it makes them dysregulated and they kind of reflect that chaotic atmosphere in their behavior. So there's no sort of cause and effect explanation of it? Yeah, there's no. There's no science, but there's kind of. When you look at child development and how their brains work and how they get dysregulated very easily, that it kind of makes sense. Qualifications. Child's like therapist. So you've observed it, then? I have, yeah. I take that. I think that works. So it's a dysregulation in the atmosphere contributes to a dysregulation in the behaviour of the child. There we go. Round of applause for Zara. I like that one. Yeah, mate. I mean, it makes sense that people might add to it, Zahra, they're welcome to do so, but your round of applause is ring fenced and Esteban is next in on Oak Park. Esteban, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So I saw a video of kind of, you know, the guards who walk around, horse guards and so on, marching with their rifles, and there was one child who didn't notice them or didn't know that he had to get out the way any more or less got trampled over. Yes, I've seen that. It's a viral clip, isn't it? It's quite. I think he shouted. I think the soldier shouted, but the mum was too busy on her phone or something. I forget the details, but yes, I'm familiar. I mean, even. Even in that instance, I was wondering, like, are they tourists? Do they know the rules? Do you know? They want to get out to the way on standing? But anyway, the question was, I didn't know that. Did you know that? I didn't know that. I think only because I've seen previous videos of that being the case and other people being chatted away. Get in the back of the vent, carry on. What's the question? Maybe out of just sheer fear. Yeah. It's like, run. Um, could they be soothed, like. Oh, and if they are soothed, is it themselves? Because technically they're the king's guards, aren't they? This is a complicated question. I thought. I just. So, I mean, so if they trod on a human and did them some damage. Yeah. Would the human have a case for damages? I presume so. Or you're wondering if there's some special dispensation because of. That's it, the royal connection, yeah. Is that a good question or not, Esteban? I'm not sure, mate. I don't know. The misses agrees. She thought it was good question. I generally. That's a good sign. Yeah, fair enough. It's two to one. All right, you're on. So are they liable to normal laws when they're trampling small children in the course of duty? Zero. 345-606-7973 I guess we just need a horse guard to answer that question. A former horse guard or something like that. But even you probably don't know if it's probably never happened. Nobody knows. Don't need to know. Nobody knows. I like it. Chris is in St Helens. Chris, question or answer? Answer, please. James, carry on. The pods. So, long story short, they can't dissolve with the product that's in them because they're super concentrated. I can't remember the name of the polymer. But it dissolves in a certain saturation of water. Yes. And basically because the liquid detergent is super concentrated, it can't physically dissolve in that. And that's why when you add water or if, say, for example, you've got steam in your kitchen, you might find that the starting to dissolve before you even put them in the washing machine. Yes. So the concentrate. So they dissolve in water and there's not enough water in the. In the. In the concentrated liquid. Exactly that. So is it PVA? It's called. I don't know, to be honest, mate. Qualifications? I wrote the process side to make the detergent for a very well known brand. You wrote the process guide? I wrote the software for the process. I'm an automation engineer. You've been on before, haven't you? Yes. Did you get. Did you get a Ray Liotta? Yes. Yeah, I thought so. I don't think you get another one on this. Do you? Do you get another one on this? I'm not. Possibly because it's super cool. You wrote the software for the recipe for the. For the. For the pods, for the detergent side. Yes, for the detergent side. That's pretty good, isn't it? But then you're going to just hoover up all the Ray liotres whenever there's a question about detergents. No, it's anything manufacturing, mate. Well, that was it. What was the other one? What was the last one? It was about barcode. Pewdiepodding. The what? Pedy podding. Yeah. Do you think I'm going to let Keith decide? He literally wrote the book. So you get one. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Nice one, Chris. Thank you, dude. Have a good day. Thank you, mate. Nicely done. Soluble in water, but not soluble in detergent. It's polyvinyl alcohol. Jonathan tells us. Quite poignant now that Ray Liotta is no longer with us. That. And speaking of poignant, is anyone else just having their getting completely blindsided whenever I read about Matthew Perry, absolutely. The tributes from his co stars yesterday, I think they've all given one now. But the one that Lisa Kudrow, who played Phoebe wrote was just. It just. They just get me. It's the first time I mentioned this to you at the time. It's him and George Michael, for some reason, have just. They just get me every time I remember that they're no longer with us. It just. You never know how big a hole someone's going to leave. I don't know them. I didn't know either of them I met them but I didn't know them. They weren't. But gosh, the Matthew Perry one just breaks me every time I see it. 28 after twelve. Liz is in Petswood Liz, question or answer? It's a question, please, James yes. So I woke up this morning and for some reason I was just thinking about this and I thought why have I never thought of this before? And I really want to know the answer so I thought I'll phone James today and what it is is when you buy sort of roast beef or raw steak or something like that and you get out the bag it's really quite bloody and you see quite a lot of blood there and, you know, reminds me of where it's come from however, when you buy chicken, you don't see. You never see even if you buy a whole roast chicken you never see any blood. So I was wondering if chickens had blood inside their bodies well, of course they have blood inside their bodies but why don't you, why do you never see it from raw chicken? Whenever you buy where is it then? Where does it go? It's been drained out in the slaughtering process and the same is true of red meat as well. It's not actually blood that you see, it's, it's, it's myoglobin, I think, is the word. Yeah. So I just don't understand how the, how the meat is very white in chicken and it doesn't look like there's ever been any blood in it well, there would have been. Well, I don't know that bit. It's, um. It comes out of the muscles. The red. There would have been blood inside the white. The white nest, the white chicken. I guess so, yeah, there'd be. I mean, the capillaries are just empty so the capillaries are there in the meat but they're empty so there's no redness, I think because all the blood has been chicken so there's a, there's a process in the factory where they just drain blood. I mean, they hang it upside down and all the blood comes out. Oh, so that means then it must be smaller. I'm moving out of my comfort zone now. I presume they hang them upside down until all the blood comes out because gravity seems to be the best way of ensuring that all the blood comes out. But I do. I know that. I don't know where the word myoglobin entered my vocabulary, but I know that when you are talking about bloody meat, like rare meat, it's not actually blood that you're talking about, it's myoglobin. Well, I'd still like to know where all the blood goes from chicken. Fair enough. Well, I mean, you know, if you think about a pig, you don't see much blood on. You don't see much red on pork, do you? Either? A bit more than on chicken, though. It's just the chickens, I thought, and I just wondered if they ever got a cup, if they could. I can't. So if you want to know if you cut a chicken, would it bleed? Yes. As well? Yes. Well, there's sometimes blood in eggs, isn't there? Well, yeah. Try not to think about that. Well, there is, though. I mean, when we had chickens, you would occasionally get a little bit of blood in it. It's not very pleasant. I do appreciate it. But it's still blood, isn't it? I expect that it's what it's made from. Eventually. It's on the list. Where does all the blood go? Because they make black pudding out of the pig's blood. That's why I mention it. You drain a pig and then you make lovely, delicious black pudding out of it. Yeah, yeah. It's just the chickens. I know. You keep. You're not being distracted from the chickens, are you? You're hitting me over the head with a chicken every 30 seconds during this conversation. Where does all the chicken blood go? Yes, well, we're on a subject. What do they do with it? Exactly? And, you know, how does it happen? How much blood could a chicken chuck? If a chicken could chuck blood, how much blood is there? The factories must be swimming in it. You'd think so. And you'd. Oh, God. And then put it to right. You're on. Yeah. Where does all the chicken blood go? And why does there appear, if you want to add to it, what's going on with a nice piece of beef? Can't believe that. That made me late for the news, honestly. Thomas Watts is here now with the headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 36 is the time. Questions that still need answers include. We've done that one. We've done that one. Why do we stick the extra day on the end of February in a leap year? Languages have collective nouns like we do. Sort of quite imaginative ones, like a murder of crows or a crash of rhinoceri. And when those horse guards trample over children, are they legally liable in any way. Zero. 345-606-0973 and you can still put your own questions on the board as well. Quite a lot of people turning vegetarian during the course of the last conversation. Oh, that one as well. Eggs. What was it again? Chickens and blood. Where does all the chicken blood go? Sorry. Matt's not happy. It's mad that you've watched Simon Amstel's carnage. It's a brilliant film, yet you can't see that that last conversation was psychotic. Maybe I can see that it was psychotic, Matt, actually. So there. 1237 is the time and Mo is in Eastbourne. Mo, question or answer? Answer the February question. Yes. Why do we put the extra day on the end of February? Right, so calendar is gregorian. It's based on the julian calendar, which was done by Julius Caesar. And in roman times, initially, they had ten months. Yes. And the proof to that is today's name. September comes from Septa in Latin, which is seven. So it was the 7th month. October is 8, November is nine, and December is ten. Isn't it? Exactly. Well done. So then they added January and February, and February was the last month to be added. So when they were doing the adjustments, they added the days on the last month. There you go. Okay, so the last month to be added. But did the roman year end at the end of February? Yeah, it used to start in March and end in December, and then they added January and February. And February comes from a festival that was a festival of purification. So that was the purification transition month, which the year ends. So it made. So actually, Oli's question was doubly good, because he thought it made more sense for the extra day to be stuck on the last month. And in fact, it was. Yes, the gentleman was very clever. And can I just say, I'm not going to answer another question like I was asked to do. No, you're not, because you'll shoot me dead, too. Right. The question about the chicken is the most first word question I've ever had on this show. Yes, I think I understand what you mean. I think even I might grew up anywhere else they've seen the grandmother preparing chicken. Familiarity, perhaps with some street markets in Singapore might have provided an answer to that question as well. But I think it's a valid question, and like any of them, and I uploaded just because it demonstrates that we live in supermarkets these days. A supermarket state. I think we might describe it as qualifications. Mo for the. For the roman question we learned at school, because I grew up in Egypt and we have a different calendar in Egypt. Officially, like the islamic calendars, we all learn a lot about different calendars, and we also have the coptic calendar, which is based on the jewish calendar. So, like, officially three calendars in Egypt. So it's part of, like, your high school stuff. Plus I love languages and etymology and stuff, so that's why I remember that December is the 10th one. Round of applause. Fort Mo, please. Lovely stuff. Thank you very much. Philip is in Boreham Wood. Philip, question or answer? Hello, question, please carry on. So, where I live in Boreham wood, there are two. Well, nearby, there are two leisure centre, council leisure centers, two swimming pools, both different temperatures. One is a gala pool they use for competitions and things like that. Yeah. And therefore they've made it a colder pool, like, really much colder. Yeah. And no one tell me why it needs to be colder. It doesn't need a gala pool. Does it need to be. That's what they said, or that's their reason for it being colder. So there's one in bushy, which is one temperature, one in Boreham wood, which is colder, I might say the kids swimming, and they're very precious. Well, I think it might be obvious. Okay, so if you're in the galapool, you're there for exercise. You're not just splashing about, are you? You're a serious swimmer. Right. If the water is warmer, the warmer the water is, the more likely you are, I would have thought, to sweat or to. Or to cramp up. So if you're doing competitive training, like proper training, physical training, then the cooler water means you'll just do better. Also, for record, you probably slow down in warmer water for those reasons. And therefore, for a record to be more likely or your fastest time, you want cooler water. It cools you down as you exercise, whereas in the other pools, you're not really exercising, you're just splashing about, so you don't want to get cold. So they do have family swims and children swimming. It's not just. They don't just use it for galas, it's just that the one that they do. But it's a competitive pool is what we'd call it. Right, yeah. So I think that would be it. I'm going to leave it on the board and I'll let a swimmer answer it, but I'll be very surprised if it's not linked to sweating. Okay, well, if it is, you're obviously welcome to your round of applause. That's very kind of you, Philip. That's very kind of you to come around my house and tell me to help myself to a drink. That's. That's all right. And have a light hearted hour. Top man. Thank you, mate. 1242. Why are competitive pools colder than leisure pools? I think I've got the terminology correct, Richard. 1242. Shaun's in Worcester. I was in Worcester last week. Very nice. Yeah, it was. It was all right. I was looking for a pub. I couldn't find it. It must have sort of either gone shut down. Everything south of the station seems to have shut for a bit, and everything north of Forgate street was. Was new. So loads of new bars and restaurants north of Forgate street or going up towards the cathedral, but then going away from the cathedral, lots of things seem to have shut down. Have you noticed that? Yeah. The river flooding's not been helping. No, that wouldn't help at all, would it? Anyway, question or answer? Um, question. Yes, bit of a jovial one. So I was joking around with my fiance the other evening. Oh, yes. And I tried to stick my finger up a nose. Messing around. I say, was this for. Was this foreplay or was it just general sort of mischief? Worcestershire. Play Worcestershire. Like it. Yes. My finger would not fit up a nostril, so it made me think, is everyone's finger diameter in proportion to their own nostrils? Is there someone out there who can't pick their own nose? That's a superb. So if your girlfriend had your fingers, she would not actually be able to pick her nose, or she would. She wouldn't get it back out. She would. It was that tight. It was quite, quite, quite, quite a tight fit. Yeah. Whereas I've never encountered anyone who's had ProB. But you wouldn't know, would you? It's not the sort of thing you'd volunteer on first meeting. No. But on this show, maybe, so you can. And it's got nothing to do with height either, has it? Because, you know. Pure girth, James. Pure girth. Girth. Width, depth. Not depth even. Okay, so are our thing accessory or it won't just be finger to nose. There's probably a question here about general physiognomy proportionality, because I imagine that you could probably fit your little toe up your nose, but not up your girlfriend's. Yeah, possibly. But I want to know if there's an answer to it. I will fight. Well, I will try. I will endeavor, Sean, to find out for you. Is there a relationship between finger girth and nostril width? I think we've. Yes, I think we've used those words. Correct. I love that just before you go, how did your girlfriend feel about this? Um, she got me back quite, quite, quite harder. So. Yeah. Okay. So she rammed her finger up your nose? No, she slapped me. 1244 is the time I got kicked in the head by a horse. Kay's in Plymouth. Kate, question or answer? An answer today. James, carry on. Kay, the blood in steak, but not in chicken. Yes, you're. You're quite right. It's myoglobin. Yes. Myoglobin isn't actually anything related to blood. A protein found in muscle. This is the red stuff. This is the red stuff. This is the red stuff. Yeah. So it's a muscle pigment. And in mammals, there is a much higher concentration of myoglobin than there is in fish or birds or even certain other mammals. Oh, right. Yeah. So that's all. And so that's all it is. When you. When you cook it or cut it, the myoglobin is released. And pigs, because they've got a different muscle structure that's less dense than cows, that's why it's more of a white meat. And there you go. Simple as that. And I was going to ask you the next bit of the question, but I think Tony and Kettering is going to do that. So I just need your qualifications for this bit of the question. My son is a relatively newly qualified biology teacher, and every time we say we've got a really bloody steak, he gives us a lecture. Does he use a special voice? He does. He's got a teacher voice. He's only been teaching for just over a long term, actually. I think you'll find that it's not blood at all, mother, pretty much. Round of applause for Kay, please. And then for the second part of the question, I think we go to Tony and Kettering, who I'll come to after this mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is indeed. 1249 is the time. I mean, I've got a couple of podcasts out today that I should tell you about. One is already out. That is the media podcast that. This was an amazing thing to do, actually, I have to be honest with two genuine Fleet street legends, Alan Rosbridger, former editor of the Guardian, and Lionel Barber, former editor of the financial ties. I talk about Imposter syndrome, talking to those two titans of the industry about the new book for the media Confidential podcast. That prospect put out every week was just an honour in every imaginable way. Something that if you told me ten years ago that was going to happen, I would simply not have believed you. And also, coming out later today comes out about tea time. I did the pod save the UK with Nish and Coco, which is a lovely sort of light hearted roundup of the news. And goodness knows we recorded it yesterday and there was plenty, plenty of news to talk about. In fact, it was still breaking while we were doing the record. So there's a couple of points in there where we sort of went back and did it again. So that's the media confidential podcast with Alan Rusbridger and Lionel Barber at Prospect and the Pod Save the UK podcast, which I think they have their own YouTube channel, don't they? And you can find it all over the shop. That's with Nish and Coco. Thank you for that. Thank you for indulging me. And the unlikely event that 15, 16 hours a week isn't enough to sate your needs, then there's another sort of hour and a half or hour, I guess, if you add the two up together for you to enjoy, 1251 is the time, Tony. What do you mean, first name terms? All right, then. Nish Kumar and Coco Khan. But if I could. I call them Nish and Coco if I want to. Ridiculous. Tony is in Kettering. Back to the blood. Tony. There will be blood. Hello, James. Hello, Tony. Be careful, people are having their lunch, mate. I know. I listen to you every day when I'm walking my dog. I can't believe I find myself phoning you up. Well, here you are. You definitely are. I just happen to know what. Where all the chicken blood goes. It's not a great phone line, so I'll be quiet and I'll let you speak. Okay. I mean, it's not a very pleasant thing to talk about, but basically they are hung up, like you said. The blood drains out into stainless steel bench with a gutter at the back. All the gutters join up, run it right to the end of the plant. And at the end of the plant, there's a tank apart, like a petrol tanker size fuel tanker. Yeah. And it all just runs into that tanker. And as soon as it's getting near full up, they back onto it, drive it away, put in an empty tanker, and they run for 24 hours. The blood never stops flowing. Where does it go? They take it away to different plants, but it's mostly made into, like, fertilizer, you know, like dried blood that you put on plants. Of course it is. Yeah, there it is. But you can never have that tanker not available because the blood just runs 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Qualifications uh, well, I used to service the trailers that did the blood, and woe betide me if I couldn't have it ready to go and collect it. Oh, I bet. Yeah, I bet that'll do. Round of applause for Tony. Lovely answer. Perfect answer. I can't believe I got a round of applause on your show. I just love the show. You can keep it as well, Tony. You don't have to bring it back next week. All right, mate. Look after yourself. Thank you, Tony. I like that. And mo's point, if you didn't understand it, was that if you were to buy a chicken in a market elsewhere in the world, or indeed if you were familiar with agriculture, then there would be very little mystery about where chicken blood, where the chickens have blood or where blood goes. Ian's intentidant question or answer, Ian, answer. Carry on. Right, swimming pools. Why you've got competitive swimming pools, different temperature to leisure pools, mainly because of the fact that, believe it or not, athletes sweat when they're swimming. So the hotter the temperature, the more they sweat. If they sweat too much, obviously they don't actually work properly in terms of their biomechanics, etc, etcetera, and they're not as fast, so they actually have it cooler for there. And there's also the fact that most of the really competitive pools, like the London aquatic Centre and things like that, have got a much larger volume of water, which is easier to keep cooler than a smaller pool when you've got heater going on it. Yeah. And also it costs money as well, so it's not as if there'd be any impetus upon the pool people to warm it up unless they absolutely had to. Well, years ago, the pool that we swim at, the swimming cup that I'm associated with, they put the temperature up in the winter for the old ladies session one morning, and as they turned, tried to turn the temperature down, the handle snapped, temperature got stuck, got hotter and hotter and hotter, and we went in for a training session after. And after about ten minutes, the kids were all like lobsters, bright red and so on and so forth. And the harder they work. Yeah, the less suboptimal, the more sub optimal that would be. Qualifications, please, Ian. I'm a british swimming referee. I've got four daughters that swam competitively up to national level and one of them went on to compete internationally as a lifesaver. That'll do nicely, mate. Nice big round of applause for Ian. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Not quite. Rayleigh otter terrorists, because there's no specific link to the question, just the general area of the question. So I don't know, maybe people think that's strict, but I'm in charge. Phil's in Inverness. Phil, question or answer? Hi, James. Very quick answer. Carry on. The troops, before they mount Kingsguard, are given a specific set of orders. As long as they follow those orders, they're following a lawful order and therefore do the job. And until the late eighties, defence had the crown immunity and was therefore exempt from civil action, no longer a case. So individuals could raise a case against offence, but they'd have to prove that. For example, the soldiers shouting, make way for the kingsguard. All the boots stamped on the cobblestones, all the signs, etc, were not sufficient to warn them of the risks. Okay, so if you stamped on a child without shouting, you could get into some trouble. But not anymore. Up until the late eighties, it's been changed. Has it? It was the other way around. Sorry? The other way around. So now you would. But the health and safety regulation exemption expired in the late eighties or disappeared in the late eighties. So if an individual didn't follow a set of orders, did something unlawful, then that individual will be responsible. If they've done their job as they've been taught and as they've been trained and following all the rules, then it'd be very hard to prove that that individual had done something unlawful. Qualifications? Start majoring the army and I have to write health and safety risk assessments. There you go. That's pretty perfect. Round of applause for Phil, please. 1256. So are there any collective nouns in foreign languages? And is there a relationship between the size of your finger, the width of your finger, the girth of your finger and the width of your nostril? Because Shaun couldn't fit his finger up his girlfriend's nostril last night. Ben Zinclakton. Ben, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on. Right, so, yeah, my fingers don't fit up my nose. I haven't been able to pick my nose since I was a kid and I genuinely thought I'd be answering a more highbrow question this Monday, but there you go. I'm bringing up about picking noses. That is extraordinary. What sort of age were you when you realized you couldn't fit your finger up your nose anymore? Do you know what? I don't really. I just remember, I have no idea when it happened. As I got maybe 18, I don't know. Who knows? What an absolutely legendary mystery hour moment this is. Ben. I'd probably keep sudafed in business. This is a thing so you've got a particularly narrow nostrils rather than particularly fat fingers. I don't think I've got shovel hands, but, you know, I've got. I've definitely got a smaller nose than. Than I need. So, I mean, there it is. Your fingers do not fit up your nose. Food assault. There you go. Well, I'll tell you what, Ben, it's got you one of these. I'm really order. And you're listening to James Ryan on LBC. Oh, my God. Fantastic. Love it. Thank you, James. Cheers. Take care. Toby's in Salzburg. Our second call from Austria today. None of it counts. I don't get any money for this, Toby, you know, you don't fill in rope anyway. Question or answer quickly. You don't get money, but you get an answer from me. James, about collective nouns. Oh, yes. As you sometimes point out, there must be a german word for it. Yes. And so the answer to the question is yes in German. It's also. It's quite common to have different collective nouns. For troops of animals, for example, you have a sprung of deer, you've got a rotte of wild boars, whilst you have a herde of sheep. Yes. What's a rotter? Fish. What does rotter translate as you call me? What? A group of wild boars. What it's called. It's got no other meaning. A rotter is always a troop of wild boar, like a troop or a group. So there's lots of different words for herd. But do any of them have another meaning? Like, we would say a murder of crows. And obviously murder has two meanings. Do you have any like that? Yeah, you have a shuler of fish. So, like a school of fish. Oh, a school of fish, yeah, that's. Yeah. Oh, great. Perfect answer. Qualifications? German. Round of applause for Toby. Exactly, yeah. No, great work. We tipped them all off. Have we tipped them all off? That. Oh, we didn't. No. I did the hats off on. I did that. What do you mean? Oh, well done. I invented mystery hour. I'm allowed to answer that. I did the visors. Who do we give the game to? Do we give it to? I gave Sean. Sean asked the question, didn't he? It's got to be nostrils, man. And Ben answered it. So the person who asked it, or the person who answered it, though, answered it. You sure you didn't asking it? He suffered enough. The man with the small nostrils. Well, Sheila has spoken. It's going to Ben, so. Not to Shaun. Shaun's going to be gutted. He's going to be so cross, he'll probably try and stick his finger up his girlfriend's nose again. That's it from me for another day. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back to the whole show podcast on global Player, the official LBC app, where you can also pause and rewind. Live radio. All of LBC's shows are there to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcast, including mystery out like a self contained mystery. A lot of people don't realise that I still get messages from people who've just discovered it. Pause and rewind. Live radio on global player, where you're always in control. Download it for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Sawbrick will be with you at four on LBC, but now it's time for Sheila Fogarty.