How did they measure they height of mountains before modern technology?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Good grief. It's had a time already. What a show. What an absolute banger of a show. Very, very, very little to do with me. It's mostly down to Keith and the coolers. But one of those days, isn't it, where you just sort of realize you've got no idea what's going to happen next. Except on Thursdays at twelve, when mystery hour generally happens next. That's where we are now. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. Before that, a little bit of Essex based humour for you. Hearing a lot about the polish town of Chelm, spelled C H E l M. Will's been in touch to say it's definitely pronounced helm. James. I met my polish wife in Chelmsford and that caused all sorts of problems when her friends and family visited. I don't know why I find stuff like that so delightful, but I do. And if you don't, then unlucky. You get your own radio show and I can find your areas of delight and enthusiasm unsympathetic. Give me a call and we'll see how we go. If you've got a mystery that needs solving, a question in search of an answer, a dilemma or a conundrum in need of resolution, now's your chance. The number you need, as ever on this program, is zero. 345-606-0973 and any question you've got a who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a wherefore, even very occasional wither. And somebody else listening will know the answer, they will ring in with it and there will be joy, unconfined rounds of applause, prizes, possibly, maybe even Ray Liottas. We had a Ray Liotta yesterday, didn't we? Was it yesterday or the day before? Ray Liotta, which is the reward, the award that we reserve for contributors to the program whose qualifications for contributing are above and beyond our wildest expectations. And that happens more in mistrial than it does in every other. But I am obviously quite a strict master and you're not allowed to look anything up. I mention this because the audience figures continue to confound all critics and the prospect of people listening for the first time is obviously real and present every week. So people ring in and ask questions and you might think, oh, I'll google that and then I'll ring in and I can be on the James O'Brien experience. But don't, because obviously, that's silly and we wouldn't be doing it if it was that simple. It just wouldn't be mystery, it'd be Google hour, wouldn't it? So you're not allowed to look anything up either online or in books or anything like that. If you did look something up for different reasons a couple of weeks ago or a couple of years ago, that's fine, because that's called learning. And the whole point of mystery hour? Well, the whole point of mystery hour was to fill an hour on a Thursday when there was a by election. I'm not going to lie to you, because you're not allowed to talk about the news when there's a by election, and by elections are always on Thursday. So coming up with things we could do on the program and we weren't allowed to talk about politics, despite the fact that politics was the biggest story of the day, low and behold, mystery hour appeared. But it was so popular and so enjoyable that it actually managed to sustain long beyond the by election. It's now been running for over ten years. Would you believe that? Can you believe that? Over ten years. And, of course, most excitingly of all, it has, yeah. Well done, Jason Rayleigh Otter is even more Essex based humour. Technically, yes. There's even a board game now. Genuine. Some people still don't believe me. I had. Chris Moyles was quizzing me this morning about how well it had done. I think Chris Moyes is a bit jealous. I think he's very keen to come up with a board game of his own devising. But you know, where I lead, Moyes follows. But it is real and you can buy it at mysteryour dot co dot UK. And it is also brilliant, in my opinion. It's absolutely brilliant. Fun for all the family. I haven't had one unsatisfied customer. But if you make a brilliant contribution to mystery hour this week, you can win one. My favorite contributor, whether question or answer, it matters not, can win one. The terms and conditions. The full terms and conditions. Go. We're so grown up now, aren't we? Not only have we got a board game, we've got terms and conditions, lads. Terms and conditions. Get you with your terms and conditions can be found at LBC. I'll do it in a professional voice. Now, stop messing about, please. Terms and conditions can be found. I'll do it in the special small print voice, shall I? Like they do on the adverts. You ready? Terms and conditions can be found at LBC UK. Should I do it again in a way that you might actually understand. Terms and conditions apply and can be found at LBC dot co dot UK. Thank you very much. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Shall we start or should I carry on? Warbling oh, okay. Vicky's in Twickenham. Vicky, question or answer? Hello, question, please carry on. And I want to know, what's that noise? What's going on in the background? I'm at school, sorry, I'm a teacher and it's lunchtime. Well, shouldn't you know the answer to this, for heaven's sake? What's happening to educational standards in this country? What's the question? So I have asked around and people kept saying they'd Google and I said, don't Google, I'm going to phone at lunchtime. Fantastic. So I want to know, how did they measure the height of mountains before modern technology? Yeah, I like it. Just because I was doing some reading with children yesterday and as we were reading through european mountain ranges, as you do, they were quite specific heights in meters, and I got a bit distracted by the thought they might not need a lot of technology. There might be a way of doing it that is, you know, like, I'm thinking of navigation, but before. Because when you really. When you say technology, you mean electricity, don't you? Or you mean something that would be like a gadget or a gizmo, but you think about what they could do on ships and all that kind of thing. Well, but you'd need to be able to see the top, wouldn't you? You'd think you'd need to be able to see the top to the ground. And then we kind of talked about. I like that. Whether you would go up with, I don't know, like a ball of string. I know that's ridiculous, but it's not ridiculous. No, it is. Would it be something like that? But then you're measuring the slope. Yeah, of course you are. You're not going to get a vertical drop, are you? And then someone else said about sun and about shadows, so that kind of led me down the path of sundials. Yeah, that would work. But again, I don't know, you need a benchmark. You wouldn't. This is really. This is a great question. We've almost. I mean, every time I do this, I'm so old now, Vicky, I said, it's an amazing question. I can't believe we've never had it before and someone takes an hour. Well, I'll try and keep you talking while Keith goes through this. No, it's not going to happen. I was going to get you a sound effect but we haven't. Not even the Stevie wonder one. I used to have the Stevie. Well, a round of applause at least, Keith. Happy birthday, Vicky. Thank you. Is that why you're not on duty at break? Yeah, I'm about to go and have my lunch. They've let you have. They've let you have it off. It'll be. Yeah, it'll be trigonometry. But I don't understand how trigonometry works if you can't see the top. So. Yeah, you measure the side, the adjacent. No, it's not gonna. Right, you're on. I'll fight that. And also, seeing as it's your birthday, you're a contender for the board game. Although it's early days, Vicky, early days. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Ten minutes after twelve is the time Christian's in Norwich. Christian, question or answer? It's a question, please, James, carry on. So playing table tennis last night? Oh, lovely. Got quite a good bat and my opponent asked what was the difference between the red and black side of the table tennis bat? And I didn't have an answer so I thought I'd call. Is one not a bit stickier than the other? Not as far as I can tell. I used to play a lot of table tennis as a kid and I think they changed the rules. So at one point I had a bat, a slazinger bat that was pimply on one side and flat on the other. Yeah. So that would have been my first response. But on closer inspection, both sides seem. Both sides are smooth now, aren't they? Yeah, yeah. And equally as sticky as I say, it's got quite a good back and. Yeah, no difference at all that you can detect. Not. And you don't detect any difference when you do a shot. You don't, you know, you do the same shot, spin the back round, do the same shot. Yeah. To be honest, I twizzled the bat and it would kind of. Yeah. Which, which color I preferred for serve rather than technique. No, same. So it's a great question though. I really like it. I think it's changed in the course of my lifetime because my schlazinger. I was so proud of that bat. I don't know about you, but if I needed a new bit of kit and I went with my mum to buy it, I'd always get the slightly bog standard one. But if my dad, because my dad worked a lot, if I could somehow get the timings right and my dad took me to buy a new cricket bat or a new table tennis bat. He'd always get me the top gear and he was in the chair the day that I got my schlazinger table tennis bat. It was a piece of work, that, and that was black on both sides, but pimply and smooth. And I'm pretty sure that's not allowed anymore because you can't. But anyway. I'm wobbling. Sorry, Christian. I'll try and find you an answer to your question. Thank you. No, you're very welcome. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time will's in Newcastle. Will, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Hi. I was watching the news the other day and they were talking about land erosion. You know, how we're losing so many meters all around our coastline in the UK? Do cartographers change the mapping on for the UK itself or do they just keep it basic in the same so it doesn't have to get changed? You see what's coming with that? Because obviously we use so much land, how accurate a map is. So you mean like when it happens a lot in the. Do you know what I nearly said? I nearly said it happens a lot on the coast. Where else is it going to happen? That's the best thing. Happens a lot in Norfolk. So you mean a cliff? You see the pictures in the paper, don't you? When someone had a big garden and over the course of 20 years, the cliff has come up to their back door and they can't sell the house for love or money, would that ever be reflected on a map? Exactly. Because they're losing. Because you're not talking about five foot, you're losing actual about meters or period, like you've just said, over a period of time. 510. 20 meters. Yes. So how long does it. Because that's quite a substantial size. Yeah. But not on a scale map. It's not, is it? No, it's not. No, it's not. And hence my question. Yeah. Would that be reflected. Just keep it normal size, just keep it in normal shape. That's a good question. I like it a lot. In fact, that's three absolute belters straight out of the blocks this week. Well done. Thank you, Will. We shall find out for you. Does erosion, coastal erosion show up on maps? What's the relationship between coastal erosion and cartography? Oh, yeah, very. What's the relationship between coastal erosion and cartography? Why do table tennis bats have two different colors on each side? And how did they measure the height of mountains in the olden days? 13 after twelve is the time Joanne is in Dagenham. Joanne, question or answer? Hello. Question. Hello. You're going to see that I've got a really lifestyle. So I laid in bed last night looking at my glass of water. Oh, yeah. Living the dream. I thought, at what point does water go off? So I said, coffee, milkshake, orange juice, coke. It does at some point look like it's off and you obviously wouldn't drink it. Yeah. So what point does water in room temperature get? Point where it's actually off. It's never off. And does it go off? No. Does it? No, you can if it's. Yeah, go on. There must be a point, surely, where, uh, it becomes undrinkable. I don't think. Only if it's kind of, you know, got lots of dust in it and things like that. Not, not actually in and of itself. I mean, plastic. Bottled what? Bottled waters can go off, but that's got more to do with the plastic. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'll put it on. Does, does, does tap water go off? Is the question? Right, yeah. Before you go and does it. Yeah. Does tap water go off? And if so, when? I mean, it seems unlikely, doesn't it? But I'm just a bit baffled. I just have got this mental image of you now lying in bed looking at your glass of water. Joanne, it's not. I probably need to get out more. I'm glad you said that and not me, but, yeah, I think you possibly. What did you do last night? Oh, there's this amazing glass of water on my side. Boy, I couldn't take my eyes off it. It's 12:15 this is lb. It is 18 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions in need of answers. How did they measure the height of mountains in the olden days? Why do table tennis bats have different coloured faces? What's the relationship between cartography and coastal erosion? I like that one. And does tap water go off? I know about stagnant water, but that's different. I think that's just when loads of bacteria gets into water, presumably. But if you're, you know, in a bedroom. Anyway, that's the question. Does it go off? And if so, when glass of water on your bedside table, is it ever going to go off? I like that question as well. Cracking questions this week. Professor Hal is here already. Gosh, it's early. Professor Hal, question or answer? Hello. I was delighted with the how do you tell the height of a mountain? Question. Yeah, go on. And you were right, you hit the nail on the head whilst missing it entirely. In some regards, that's my roll. That's what I do. That's how I roll. Only because it is trigonometry. It's not as accurate as we'd like it to be. And here's what you have to do. So what you want to find is the height of the mountain. So that's an imaginary line of a triangle. Yeah. And then you go and you walk a certain distance away from the mountain. Yeah. That's another line of the triangle. And so from the top of the mountain to where you're standing is the third line of the triangle. All you need to do is the hypotenuse. Yes, we're just trying to measure the hypotenuse. Yeah, and all you need to do is look up. But you need to measure the angle you tilt your head at to look up. Yeah, and I've got. I've written this down in front of me. The sine of that angle from the little book or your calculator is the opposite divided by the distance from the mountain. So you can calculate the one unknown. Yeah, but you need to be able to see the top. Yes, but I said that. Well. Oh, okay. Well, that was. All right. Yeah, that makes sense. But you're stuck. So you'd use it. You'd use a piece of equipment to measure the angle. You wouldn't. I mean, you use a protractor. A protractor to measure the. The line that you take to get to the top. But how would you measure Mount Everest then? Because you wouldn't be able to see the top of it. Well, then you're stuck. Yeah. So how do they know how high Mount Everest is? Well, no, because the other inaccuracy is that the line from the top of the mountain to the earth has to be at the center of the mountain. So you have to estimate how much of the base of the mountain you count towards where you're standing, which is why it's inaccurate. No, I can live with that. Okay, so it's always inaccurate. But how did they measure Mount Everest then? Well, they have to have a sunny day and look at the top. You can't see the top of Mount Everest, can you? What? You can never see it. Wouldn't have thought so, mate. Okay, well, let me check. Let me check with my very knowledgeable colleague. You can see the top of Mary. How do you know? Okay, yeah, apparently you can. The shadows of Styx is an interesting. So this goes back 2000. I mean, this goes back to Pythagoras, then. So, I mean, it's not just the olden days, it's the ancients who could have measured mountains. Well, my next comment was going to be, the first person to calculate the circumference of the earth was Eratosthenes, who was a Greek, and he did it by the well at Alexandria. On one day of the year, the sun would shine directly into a well and he got his mate down the road to put a stick in the ground and measure the angle there. And because you had then effectively a z, he calculated to within 15% the circumference of the earth, which I thought was ingenious, just a bit. Great stuff. Qualifications. My munificent employer pays me to do my hobby, and that's the University of Brighton, which allows me to be a professor of public understanding of science. Funny, because the question was asked by a teacher, possibly, I sense from the tone in the background, a primary school teacher. So we've gone from the beginning of the educational process with a primary school teacher right through to the end of it with a university professor. That's rather pleasing, isn't it? It is, and I love helping teachers, as it happens. It's part of what I do as I go out to schools and help them to do some interesting science for their pupils. To bring science to life, Hal, to bring science to life. I love it. I can't believe I get paid for it, but I do. So welcome to my world. Would you like another round of applause? You've got millions in your delighted wardrobe. There we are. There else? There we go. So how gets that? And Mickey's still in the frame for the board game. Perhaps Saul is in Southend. Saul, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Question. Carry on. Right, the origin of the saying or phrase. Tickety boo. Tickety boo. Yes, I'm tickety boo. I'm really not sure. It comes up images of maybe something like a jack in the box going ticket, tick, tick, tick and then jumping out my boo. I've no idea. I heard it on the tv program last week and. Yes. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, quite a lot of this stuff comes from the Raj, comes from the empire, so it might, you know, like, it's a boulderized version of native language and we've adopted our own version, so it might be that, but I don't know. I'll put it on the board generational as well. I think it's probably. It's not used as much as it was, maybe very little is, really, but no, you're right. I mean, no, I mean, in terms of figures of speech, they generally. I was in the supermarket yesterday and the person behind me bought chicken breasts and a box of eggs and the cashier was an older lady, I think polish. And I was so desperate to do the joke. I was so desperate to do the joke. I might have been lost. Yeah. And I couldn't, because the woman buying the chicken and the eggs was very young and the woman on the till was older, but I think polish, definitely not. Not English. Anyway, strong accent. And I didn't risk it because I thought, if I do it and they don't know what I'm talking about, I'm going to look weird. I'm going to look weird. I'm not just going to have a bad joke on my hands. Look weird. And it was. It was on, you know, the moving conveyor belt. So I literally could have stood there. I said, oh, hang on, I'm just going to wait to see what comes first, the chicken or the egg. And I feel like I really missed a moment. How many times in your life are you going to find yourself in front of the queue in the supermarket, somebody who is only buying chicken and eggs? And you could have. That's just. I know, but it wouldn't be as funny. We'll be doing it on purpose, that. It wouldn't be funny, would it? Just everyone. Maybe it would be so. I miss her. She's been haunting me all day, that has. I completely missed that offer. Well, just going to wait and see what comes first, the chicken or the egg. Would have been a moment, wouldn't it? Wouldn't it? All right, maybe not. Tickety boo. Origins of that, please, for Saul. Rosie is in New York City. Rosie, question or answer? Rosie? Oh, sorry, James, I've got a question. Please carry on. I was on the subway the other day, riding the subway, and I felt someone looking at me and I looked up and I confirmed that the person was indeed looking at me. And I'm wondering, why can we feel when someone's staring at us? I don't think we can. But I always. Yeah, no, it's. You know, there is a book and don't even begin to ask me where I am dragging this from. But I think I can remember the name of the author, not just the name of the book. There is a book called the sense of being stared at and I think it's by someone called Rupert Sheldrake. And it is dedicated to questions like the one you've just asked. And he thinks if memory serves, he thinks it does possibly have some sort of psychic explanation. But I don't know that you'll get a better answer than that. Yeah, all right. Well, if we don't, I'll look up the book after the show. Yeah. No, do. It does feel like a sort of weight on you, so. But we all think it. We all think it. We all think that. But the problem is, it's one of those things where you will never remember all the times you thought you were being stared at and you looked up and you weren't. You're only ever going to remember the times you thought you were being stared at and you looked up and you were. And then your brain goes, oh, my God, I'm psychic. But you don't remember all the times. It's how a lot of confidence tricks work, or how a lot of these things superstitions work, I guess, in that you only remember the times when the planets align. You never remember the times, which are probably much more multiple. There's probably millions of times you thought you were being scared out and you looked up and you weren't. But you wouldn't remember those because it would just sort of wash over you, I think. But that's. That's the best I've got. Fair enough. Well, if there's someone with a better one, I'd love to hear it. Yeah. All right. Careful. What, um. What time is it in New York City? It's just after 08:00 a.m. We're only 4 hours behind you right now. That's nice. So what, you getting ready for work? Are you off out? Oh, yes, I am. Fantastic. I love the idea of having mystery on before work. Getting ready for work. Can we please get Rosie an answer, please? 27 minutes after twelve is the time. Why have I written down the sense of being stared at? That's not going to confuse me when I go through the questions that still need answers. No, it isn't. Has anyone checked that yet? Is there a book by Rupert Sheldrake called the sense of being stared at? If there is, that's one of those weird memory glitches that I couldn't begin to explain. Ken is in north. Ken. Ken. Question or answer? Oh, I've got an answer for you. Carry on, Ken. Table tennis? Yes. Yes. Yeah, I reckon your one must have been an old slavenger. Was it green? No, black, mate. Oh, it's black, yeah. On both sides. Yeah. Yeah, we see that within the early days. It was before 1980. Correct. John Hilton won the european championships. I believe it's 1980. Yeah. And he was using the same color rubbers on each side. Yeah. Pimply and smooth rubbers. Yeah. Pimply and smooth, that sort of stuff. Yeah. Or maybe. Yeah. So what happened was he won it by twiddling this bat so no one could see what. What. Exactly. That's why I used to do as well. Yeah, right. Absolutely. So later on in 1980s, the International Table Tennis Federation changed the rules that you had to have one black and one red, so when you twiddled and players are allowed to check their bats. So although Christian didn't detect any difference between the two sides of his bat, there almost certainly would be a difference between the two sides of his bat. Well, yeah, if you. If you're using different rubbers on each side, a lot of people use the same, but if you're using the same. Does it still have to be different colors? It has to be red and black. Well, actually, I've just changed it again. Not now. You've got a black on one side and every color on the other side. I've just changed. So you're not allowed to have a table tennis bat, even if it's got the same rubber on both sides? You're not allowed to have the same color? No. Even if it's the same rubber. So Christian's bat might be the same on both sides, but it has to be different colors. It has to be red and black. Well, that's the old rules and qualifications. It must be black. I've been a coach for over 30 years and I play table. Where do you play them? Whereabouts in North Kensington are you based? Well, I don't play in North Kensington. I played around in London, all over the place. No, there's nowhere in North Kensington. Funny enough, that's why I asked. I thought I used to live there. I thought I'd have gone to a table tennis club, but I didn't think there wasn't one. No, no, there was. No, there isn't. There isn't in my area. So I've had to play. Well, I played at various clubs. You have to cast your net a bit wider, Ken. Your net. Well, I had to net your net a bit. We have to cast your net a bit wider. Yeah, I know. Yeah. Round of applause for Ken, please. Have a lovely day. 12:30 is the time, and we can cross that one off as well. Time now for the very latest news headlines with Lottie Morley every Mother's Day. I'm yves half of efax, the OG Cloudfax solution. And here's my safe sidekick. Security here. Whilst our network is so resilient that it's like you have a parachute on. An extra parachute. I'm all about spreading peace of mind so you can sleep easy knowing our solid network has your back, I've chilled out more than a million businesses and nearly half the Fortune 500. The ultimate combo, efax. It's secure, easy. Head to efax dot co dot UK corporate mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1234 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Questions still in need of answers include the relationship between coastal erosion and cartography. You work it out. A glass of water on your bedside table. Will it ever go off? And if so, when? The origin of the phrase tickety boo. And a tricky one, this. Is it true that we can tell when someone's staring at us? It's a thing in the back of your head, for example. Or so the sense of being stared at. The book was called. Any of those? That's all I've got left. Anything else, Keith? I think that's the lot. Peter is in Hilton. Peter, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on. Peter. The tap water question. Yes. Doesn't go off. No. I didn't think so. And the reason why it doesn't go off is because water is made up of hydrogen and oxygen, which are naturally occurring elements, and tap water is treated to remove any microorganisms that might be in the water supply as well. So there's no potential for any microorganism growth to occur in your glass of water, if you leave it there for days, weeks, months or years. Whereas with river water, or water that can go stagnant, there'll be something in it that can multiply or infect, for want of a better word. Correct. And if you were to get bottled water that can go off, because the plastic and the polymers in the plastic which is in the bottle can disintegrate over time when they're subjected to weather and the outside environment, and that will leach into your water, making it go off. So that's why water bottles, bottled water's got an expiry date on it based on how long the shelf life of plastic might behave under certain conditions that it's stored in. Which is why they say, keep in a cool, stored, cool, dry place away from sunlight. Yeah. Qualifications? I have got a master's in chemistry. That'll do nicely. That's only one of these. Thanks very much. No, thank you very much. Beautifully done. I like that one a lot. Thank you, Matt. Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Hello, James, answer. How are you? Hello. Well, funnily enough, I've recently phoned up about the mountain question and there is actually more to that story than Professor Howe indicated. Oh, no, no, no. You know how well, you know how it works. I think you were told, in fact, weren't you, by the producer, that we weren't going down. Yeah. So then I was asked to answer the question about mapping and coastal change. So with that one, it obviously depends on the scale of the mapping. So the ordnance survey, their largest scale, maps at 112 50. So of course, when we sort of seen that coastal erosion, sea level rise, accretion of sediments that are coming down from river networks and things. Yes, of course, at that scale, those types of changes will have to be mapped. And as the ordnance survey continued to do their mapping updates, they will bring those changes onto their systems and then they get published, obviously a much smaller scale. So the audience have also published mapping at one to 1,000,001 to 2 million. And at that scale, those changes are completely undetectable. So you won't see those changes unless there is incredibly large changes. But obviously, as we sort of see now, with sea level rise and wave action on cliffs and everything, then, yes, you will see mapping have to be developed to incorporate those changes. I suppose, in a way, now you've explained it, of course it will, but it's just a question of when it becomes significant enough to be noticed, isn't it? Yes. And the significance is dependent on the scale of the mapping qualifications. My first degree was in cartography and now I master's in climate change and work environment agency. What? Forgive me for asking you a stupid question. A degree in cartography? Yes. I'm going to sound very ignorant when I say I'm surprised. There's three years worth of work to do. There's more than people do. Phds in college. Oh, I'm sure they don't. I'm genuine. I'm fully owning my ignorance on this. I just. I'm just keen for you to remove it slightly. No, I mean, there's all the design elements, there's technology, there's gis, history of mapping, all sorts of different survey, all those sorts of things. Yeah, I love it. Another round of applause for you. Thank you. That's my hat trick. Thank you. How about that hat trick? Special moment. Maybe you need a new sound effect. 1238 is the time you are listening to James O'Brien. On LBC, Sarah is in Warminster. Sarah, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on, sir. Why is a saxophone classified as being a woodwind instrument when it is made of brass, like many other brass instruments, like cornet, french horn, etcetera? Well, can you think I know this? It's just a question of how smug I'm going to be. I did wonders whether you'd had it before. No, I don't think we've had it before, but my dad used to play the clarinet, so I think that's why I know. What is the most obvious difference between a saxophone and the other instruments you mentioned, for example, a trumpet or a cornet link? I don't know. I was wondering whether it was a historic thing, you know, whether they used to be. It's actually quite boring. It's actually quite boring. What makes the noise that is amplified by the saxophone? Where does the actual noise come from? From the reed. What's the reed made of? Oh, okay. Yeah. Wood. Wind. Yeah. Wood plus wind equals. And that's it. It's that simple. There you go. Yep. Thank you so much. I get a round of applause for that one. Thank you, sarah. I think I asked my dad and he told me. I think that was my qualifications. Gorad is in Romford. Gorad. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Hi, I've got an answer for tikki boo. Tikka tiboo. It's translated into Hindi as tika babu. And that means, I'm fine, sir. And it came about when the British. When India was part of British Empire. The british soldiers, you say, how are you doing? To the soldiers, indian soldiers, and they used to say, tika bubble. Teeka bubble. And they used to take the Mickey saying, tickety boo. Tickety boo. And that's where it came from. I'm. And it means, I'm fine, sir. And that's what tikka boo means. I'm fine. That'll do nicely. Everything is fine. It's come to mean tikka tibu. Yes. And I got it from Nick Ferrari, who had a guest on a few years ago. Well, I never. That's a first. Those are your actual qualifications? A guest talking about the origins of commonplace phrases and. I speak Hindi. That's just incredible. What was what? How did that come up on Nick's show? I'd just be interested to know. I have no idea. It was years ago. Sure you didn't dream it? You sure didn't dream it? What? No, no. It just clicked in. Look at that. So, well, that doesn't really count as a qualification, then. You can't just say, I heard it on Nick Ferrari's show. You hear all sorts of nonsense on Nick's show, it doesn't mean it's true. Round of applause. 1241 is the time. Paul's in Birmingham. Paul, question or answer? I've got a question for you. Carry on. Right. I was watching shoe and Laurie the other day and they had one of the comedy sketch scenes, shoe and Laurie, the comedy sketch show. Fry and Laurie. Oh, Fry and lorry. Yeah, a little bit of frying Laurie. That's it. 1617 hundreds kind of thing. And they're not that old. They're not that old. It was only about the eighties. They're dressed up in character, imperial drama and they. There's a common script where they challenge each other to a jewel. Oh, yeah. And I'm just wondering, when did that kind of stop? What? Well, my question is, did it actually ever happen? But I can only ask one question, so if I. They definitely had jewels. I mean, Alexander had. Hamilton died in a duel, so did his son as an american. So when did they kind of. When did that stop being a thing? Because obviously, when did gentlemen. Or. I don't know, because if you didn't assume, you can't do it now, because if you murder, like, you could just go out and. No, you can't consent to being killed. So, oddly enough, it would be. Dignitas would be part in this country. You cannot consent to being killed by someone else. So the same legislation that prevents assisted dying would also outlaw duelling. Even if you'd agreed to it, you can't agree to being killed by someone else. What do you mean exactly? You hadn't thought of that before? Yeah, I just assumed any kind of, you know, you can't kill somebody. Yeah, no, I like it. Yeah. So, I mean, we'll have to pick a country. Is it going to be the UK? We want to know? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I was thinking in the UK, definitely. Yeah. I love that. When was dueling outlawed in the UK? It might have just fallen out of favor, you know, it might not ever have actually been legislated for, but I wouldn't be surprised it was. I love that question, Paul. Well, who's annoyed you? Who's annoyed you? Paul and I normally listen to the podcast and I'm from Birmingham, I'm actually driving in London. It's one of the only times I'm able to actually phone it when it's live. I love it. And you got through as well? Well, happy day. And the sun's out. And the sun's out. It's ours. Fantastic. Yeah. So take care, mate, and safe journey back. 1243 is the time when were duels outlawed? So, Holland Coburn, who you heard on the program last week, ive read his new book. Now, I hadnt read it when I interviewed him, which I thought I should probably be upfront about because ive read every other book hes ever written, one of my all time favourite authors, and takes us back to Rosie. This in New York City, where Alexander Hamilton died, where he had his duel. There is a rock with a plaque on it. I didn't know this until I read Harlan's latest book, the match, which is just brilliant. I'm not. Spoiler alert. Stephen in Milton Keynes, don't spoil the end of Hamilton. James. I haven't watched it, mate. He's a. What? Are you joking? He's a historical figure. It's not a. Spoiler alert. How the music. The producer's just waving at me going, no, no, don't. I haven't seen it either. Look at. No way am I doing. They get absolutely. That's like saying, spoiler alert. How did Amber Linda. Don't tell me. Don't tell me how Amber Lindard. I haven't seen. I haven't seen six yet. I haven't seen the musical about Henry. Oh, no, no. Spoiler alert. Spoiler alert. Don't tell me about it. Katherine, get knotted. Alexander Hamilton dies in a duel with Aaron Burr, sir. And if you don't, if you're uncomfortable with that, it's history you should blame, not me. And anyway, apparently in New York City, the sight of the duel, still, you know, a bit of Parkland there, and there is a rock with a plaque on it that says, this is where Alexander Hamilton, one of the founding fathers, literally rested as he died after being shot in a duel with Aaron Bursar. He's not called Aaron Bursar, he's called Aaron Burr. But if you're familiar with the musical, you find it very hard to say Aaron Burr without adding the word sir, because that's how the song works. And I just thought that was incredible, because, as Harlan writes, the idea that you can touch it, that sense of reaching back into history, is incredible. Apologies if you. If I've now spoiled the ending of that musical for you, but don't worry, the songs are still great. This is LBC. Whether you're searching for kettlebells or boxing gloves, how you pay matters, visa, a network protecting your payments online picture this static cars idling engines, angry horns. Now picture you zooming past it, all light and breezy. Ah, the sweet feeling of whizzing past traffic. Book your train journey via avantiwestcoast dot co dot Uk. Avanti west coast feel good travel. My prostate cancer was thankfully caught in the nick of time, but it shouldn't be done. To luck, men at higher risk are aged over 50, those with a family history of the disease, or black men. Or the 45. Check your risk of prostate cancer now. Search risk checker or visit prostatecanceruk.org dot men. We are with you. Heard about swole panda, the bamboo clothing company that needed a bit of help from go daddy one day, one of them is like, our clothes might be sustainable, but our business won't be. We need more customers. And then it hits him. We need goDaddy. Look, we can get a domain name and build a website. Yes, to get found online and reach more customers. And now, after little online growth spurt, everyone's like, your socks are so sick. They small pandas. Yeah, fam. They made that out of bamboo. Sustainable, innit? For the help and tools you need to grow online. Go, daddy. Michael Paulson was plotting something. Yeah, houses on a map. It's what architects do. And cooking up all manner of wickedness along the way. Oi, that's my lunch you're talking about. That's why he works in the shadows. I'm literally in the basement. We get Bt Wi fi down here. So I came down for a bit of peace and quiet, or so I thought, fine, I'll take my dramatic voice elsewhere. Cut the drama with bTw in every room of your premises. So it's all business, no drama. Search BT business to find out more. Bt beyond limits. Here in south east England, we sell amazing products and services the whole world wants. We're global processing services from London and we help people pay in innovative ways in over 48 countries. We're creative nature from Surrey and our allergen free snack bars let people eat safely across the Middle east and Europe. Whilst at Crep protecting London. Our sneaker care range keeps footwear protected in 52 countries. So wherever your business, big or small, startup or established, if you make it in the UK, why not sell it to the world to get free help from the UK government? Search let's get exporting. Whether you fancy moving to the country or dream of taking early retirement, a tax efficient stocks and shares Isa from John Lewis can help you prepare for all the big milestones to come. Little moments can build big futures. Go to johnlewisfinance.com to find out more. As with all investing, your capital is at risk. Tax treatment depends on individual circumstances that may change in the future. John Lewis investment services are provided by nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited. A squeezing across the chest. A feeling of unease that sense something's not right. It can be easy to dismiss the early signs of a heart attack, but it's never too early to call 999 and describe your symptoms. Your NHS is here for you. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC question still in need of answers. When was dueling outlawed in the UK? Can you really tell when someone is looking at you? And that's it, isn't it? That's all I've got left. Those two might have to start talking more slowly to string this out until the end of the program. I've only got two left in need of answers. We could squeeze in another question as well, if we want. Mark Sinhara. Mark, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on. Mark. It's for the being looked at. Oh, yes. I took part in an experiment in the eighties with a doctor Wiseman at Hertfordshire University, in which you had to sit in a room with a little buzzer and there was a separate room with people looking at you, admittedly via a live camera, and you had to press the buzzer every time you felt you were being looked at. And they did this. A few people took part in this experiment and then they wrote to me a few weeks later and said, we have concluded that there is no correlation, that people don't know when they're being looked at. It's just a coincidence when people feel they have. And probably for possibly, probably for the reasons I speculated upon, which is you'd remember it when you thought someone was looking at you, you looked up and they were, but you're not going to remember the hundred times when they actually weren't. How did you get into that? I used to see Doctor Wiseman at different events. He was one of these chaps that pooh poohed conspiracy theories and the like. Who would I serve? Well, who's the American? A bit like James. Randy. Not Randy. What's the Joe? Yeah, exactly. So you just go and see his events and then you signed up for one of his experiments. Exactly. How cool. He's still active, apparently. He does a lot of lectures and things. Oh, we need people. I am, at the moment conspiracy theory. Indeed. We do been taking over. That's amazing. So you're actually involved in an experiment, a genuine laboratory condition, peer reviewed experiment that found that it's not true? Yes, but you could argue, I probably would, that the fact that it was via a camera and not physically in the same place, perhaps you could argue, well, you're not getting the same vibe or something. It was good enough for me. I tempted to give you a Ray Liotta because you were actually involved in an experiment, looking at how many other people were there, how many other guinea pigs were there, so to speak. I'm not sure. You weren't told that you nearly gave me a Ray Liotta before when I phoned it about a Bowie thing. But did I really? Did I do this again? Did I have a live. Did I do a live concert contemplation of whether or not you were going to get one and then decide that you weren't? Yeah, well, yeah. I mean. I mean, on the one hand, if I did it again, you'd be a record holder, because I can't imagine I've ever done that twice. But on the other hand, I think that would be unnecessarily cruel, don't you? So I'm going to let Keith decide. Everyone be quiet. And if he presses the button, he presses the button. I'm Ray Leona and you're listening. Brilliant. Thanks so much. That's made my week lovely. The actual experiment. That's fantastic. Chris is in blackheath. Chris, question or answer? Question. James, carry on. What are the three lions called on the english football team's shirt and also on the coat of arms that you normally get? You've got the free lion. I know this. They've got a name and it's biting me because I can't remember for the life of me. That's all right. I got their call. I've got this. It's Huey, Louie and Dewey. I love you, James. I love you. Do not retire and do not die. You've got to keep on forecasting on LBC and do not get sacked. I love you. I've got control over one of those things. I've got no control over the other two. Is it like a heraldic term? Is that what we're looking for? I believe so. Okay. What are they called? What are those three? Thank you, Chris. Thank you for the kind words. 1253. I see a show. Andrew Carson might know that. What are the lions called on the coat of arms? You've replied, represented your country at the high on the. On the biggest stages, the UK. I know. Not England, but still, you know. No, no. I just don't know. Don't drag me into this successful piece of programming. I'll ruin it for you. Fair enough. And by the way, tennis question earlier. I think so, yeah. You. What did you come up with? Because I was preparing. What was red and black? Yeah. Because when Jim Hilton, or when John Hilton won the title in the eighties, he was playing with a bat that had two different rubbers on it, even though they were the same color. Yeah. Which is what I had in a. Roughly the same piece. You had a slazing. I did, yeah. A black steago or a barna. Okay. Pimples on one side, smooth on the other. Well, but they were the same color, so I could put the top spin on that one. And then. And then they've changed the rules. So it has to be different colors. So much so that even if you've got the same rubber on both sides of the back, they also have to be different colors. Just the avoidance of confusion. So it's about a fairness for the person receiving your shot. Yeah. I think the rules were changed in about 86 or so. There was a lot of deception involved. You'd like it. I'm a big fan of table tennis. Is there a lot of crossover between table tennis and tennis? Tennis, absolutely massive. Is that right? Absolutely massive, yeah. And tennis and golf are very closely related as well. Just body weight transference rotating throughout. Serious. Yeah. I haven't played golf in 30 years. Cricket has always smash it over the trees on the right, into the river. They would wing it, wouldn't they? They just go like straight up and down. So it sort of. Because the balance is different. The balance is wrong. Fascinating. You're a tennis player, too? I play a little, yeah, I play a little at the parks. Playing on Monday, actually, as a clay court in west London. Did you know that the only municipal clay court. A friend of mine's doing an article for a newspaper about the best municipal courts. I did not know, because clay is quite expensive to maintain. Well, we've got you what you do. You book it. 55 minutes of tennis, five minutes of flipping, sweeping it up and getting it ready for the next. Preparing it for the next people. Yeah, exactly. Have you played paddle tennis yet? No, but I keep hearing about it. Good. Okay. There's another one as well. Rocks Lane. Yes, that's right. That's very near me. I keep hearing about this. Fantastic. You're on. Um, I've got four minutes of the show left, actually. Sorry. James is in Virginia water. James, question or answer? I've got an answer. Oh, you're still there. What is it? Hello. Hello. It's to the dueling question. Yes, I know the site and the day of the last duel in England. Anyway, do you? Go on. So it's in centre court, Wimbledon, 1994, something like that, yeah. No, it was on a hill called Priest Hill in Engerfield Green in about 1850, and I want to say 1852. Gosh. Really? That recently? This is mid 19th century. How do you know that? Is there a plaque up or something? Yeah, there's a plaque up a pub I used to drink at. We don't know whether, but. So we know that it must have been made illegal at some point soon after 1850. Yeah, sure. But we don't know for sure. No. So that was the last, I suppose, legal duel. I like it. It's not. I mean, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you. But I don't know. I don't think there's still room for improvement on that, given that the. I mean, the date or the legislation. Maybe there was no legislation. Maybe people just stopped doing. Did someone die, James? I don't know, to be honest. Well, that's rather undermined your round of applause. I was so qualification. I know there was a duel. If no one died, how can it be a duel? It's just a fight. Oh, there you go. That's the difference between a duel and a fight, is that people get killed in duels. It's a fight to the death, isn't it? You've got your round of applause. You cut your hair. Fair enough. Phil's in Shirst and in Wiltshire. Phil, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Phil. The three lions are on the King Richard III's tabard, are called leopards. What? Leopards. No, they're not. They are. They're lions. They're. They're called leopards. Back in the day, according to the crusader law. Yeah. And I saw this on QI the other night, right. Stephen Fry was explaining to Frank Skinner. Oh, yeah. That the three lions are non existent and that they're three leopards. Yeah. But on the England charts, they are called the three lions of Anjou. That could well be, but in heraldic terms, they're called leopards. Well, yeah. All right. Okay, Stephen Fry. All right, Stephen, is this. Give him a round of applause. I think you think you're right, actually. I think that the three lines of Anjou is also right. And stop sending me. I've already done the Huey, Louie and Dewey joke. So get knotted with your versions of that saying you're wrong, James. They're actually called Rod Jane and Freddie Richards. Endorse it. Last one on this question or answer? It's an answer to the question of whether dueling was ever outlawed in this country. The answer is that it wasn't, because it was always illegal. Dueling was always. It was never allowed, so it was okay. So people just stopped doing it. Qualifications. I wrote a book about it called the Cool Pistols of Dawn. It's published about 15 years ago. I beg. Well, in that case, it's got to be one of these, hasn't it? I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Great work, Richard. A lovely way to end the show as well. The pistols at dawn. Probably not available in all good bookshops, but I'm sure you can find a copy if you google it. Now, coming up to 01:00. There it is. Andrew Castle. When you're ready. When you're ready. You bring one, I'll bring another. Because paddle tennis is doubles only. Yeah. Ready? Ready when you are. I will come. I will come to you. You're on. Graham Lasso's very good at it as well. He'll be listening. Good lefty. Always good to have a lefty on. I bring Graham. I'll bring Graham. And you can bring one of your showbiz chums. Okay. Like, I don't know, Gloria Honeyford. I'm already just trying to work out. I'm just trying to. Clifford, you've got a show to docast. Yeah. Off you go. Have a lovely day. Right, okay, let's get heavy. President Biden, he's joined fellow western leaders in Brussels for a series of high level meeting summits. We'll talk about all that.