Can moths mate with butterflies?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It is ten minutes after twelve. I had to check the time. I didn't want to mess it up. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio. Dial a couple of phone lines for you if you're quick, because things are a little bit different from normal. Zero 345-606-0973 my favourite contributor of the week will receive a brand spanking new mystery out board game. We had new photos done yesterday. I don't know whether if we do another version of the board game, I'll get the new photo put on the box, because that photo that is on the box is so old even my children don't recognize me. But it's all there. And you can win one if you're brilliant. And, well, you don't even have to be brilliant, you just have to be mildly diverting. You have to be my favorite contributor of the week. You can get hold of your own copy at Mysteryout dot co dot Uk dot. And you can get, of course, all the terms and conditions for this competition at LBC dot co dot UK. Otherwise, let's let the games commence. Might start doing that every week. Keith, what did they say? Is it let the entertainment. What does it say let the something commence in gladiators? Yeah, something like that. Anyway, Andrea is in Huntley. Andrea, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Andrea, a couple of months ago, you said that you stopped biting your nails after therapy. I did. And a very similar thing happened to me when I left a bad relationship. And I didn't realize until I nearly poked my eye out. Yes, I was having an intimate scratch, Andrea, but we won't go any further than that. I just wondered if other primates bite their nails through stress or anxiety. I mean, I'm sure they clip their nails, you know, with their teeth, but I wondered if any of them did it when they're stressed or anxious or is it just humans? Yes. Yes. I mean, I guess back in the day, I don't know. I think someone actually asked about this on Mistra. What they would have done. Would they have used stones to file them down or buy? But you probably didn't need to in the wild, because your lifestyle, such as it is, would involve use of claws or nails or whatever. We want to talk. But the stress of it. Yeah, I like that question. Other primates. Thank you. It's lovely. And it is weird, isn't it, when you stop. I'm so glad you got out of that relationship, but it is such a strange thing to notice. And then you, then you, then you sort of think back and think, why has that happened? I've done it since childhood. I've done it since I was tiny. Same here. Same here. And now I have to file them and it's the weirdest thing. Have you not been for a manicure yet? Have you not been for a manicure? Oh, just one. Yeah. They're nice, aren't they? Bit dear for what they are. Andrea. Thank you. You're on the list. Do any other primates bite their nails as a consequence of stress? Zero 345-606-0973 is the time. Is the number 13. After twelve is the time. Martin is in Warrington. Martin, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on, mate. My question is this. Do sheep get sunburned? Well, you mean after a very recent sheer. Yeah. Well, every day I drive my daughter to the local railway station to give her a lift there so she can go to work. And I drive past a field full of sheep every day. And obviously this time of year all been sheared. Yeah. So they look pretty bare. And the weather we've been having recently has been. It's been so hot and sunny that it has been playing in my mind a bit. They don't look too stressed. They don't. They're not biting their nails. No, they're not biting the nails or hooves or what? The sheep. I don't know. Trotters don't ring in. Don't ring. A trotters is pigs. So I mean, they must get flipping hot with all that. Exactly. So I was hoping one of your fellow listeners could thank. No, because it's not just in England, is it? We've got. They've got sheep in really hot countries as well. That is true. That's very true. Yeah. So you can't. It seems highly unlikely that sheep get sunburned, but I will put the question on that. I suppose you could rephrase the question. Assuming they don't get sunburned is what stops them being sunburned. Well, the wool's been. Well indeed, but you know, domesticated sheep have all the wool. They do. No, I like it. Yeah. I mean. Well, hang on, does anyone else get sunburned apart from us? Well, that's the same question as the nail biting question. It is. It's the same question. There's a theme about primates and their behaviors which are distinct from humans, isn't there, James? Today, humanity, the unique nature of humanity. Sunburn. I mean, it's an evolutionary glitch, isn't it? Because we've sort of said our. Anyway, so I don't know, we'll find out. Do sheep get sunburn and do primates bite their nails? I like that. It's all gone a bit David Attenborough, sort of. It's 1215. It's not mystery hour, is it? It's mystery for 40, 50 minutes. 40, 50 minutes or something. Mystery something. Anyway, on we go. Jonathan's in Croxtal in County Durham. Question or answer, Jonathan. Shall I go to. I hope this isn't going to be awkward. What? Hello, Jonathan. Sorry. Get me off the speaker. Get me off speaker. Get me off speaker immediately. Sorry. That's all right. I'm off getting the head. All right, mate. In your own times. Only 1.46 million people waiting. Sorry. So my question is. Yes? Why don't women find baldness attractive? I do all right. Well, I mean, I'm slightly phonically challenged and I do very well, if I say so myself. But what a pair of bows, honestly. Do we know that they don't? Do we know that they don't? Well, some do, but I think we could agree it's pretty niche. I mean, if you compare it to other sort of testosterone driven characteristics, like muscular fame and deep voice, broad shoulders, facial hair. Stop it now. I'm in the room, you know. Exactly. So why. Yeah, I mean, it's not. I mean, otherwise, there's certainly a perception that women find it less attractive, because otherwise men wouldn't, a, get so het up about it and b, go to such lengths to cover up. To cover over. So what is. So we're looking for any evolutionary explanation, are we? Yeah. So I'm sort of staying with the. With the human uniqueness, David. Well, no, it isn't, because you'd have to say. You'd have to say, do female. I don't know. Ducks find bald. Well, you got the bald eagle. I said, I'm going to stop this line of inquiry before I say something that I regret. Jonathan, you're on the list. Thank you, mate. Can I just say, please. Sorry, I've been before. And last time I was on, you said you loved my novel undercountry and my publisher was like, you idiot, you didn't say the name. Go on, then. So it's the undercountry by Jonathan Trigel. The miners strike? No. And it is a superb piece, an absolutely superb piece of work. What are you working on at the moment? Have you always been in Coxdale, didn't you? Live on. Weren't you somewhere hot last time? Yeah. Well, the funny, the funny thing is, while I was researching undercountry, I actually met someone. I was in County Durham and subsequently had a daughter. The strapline really should have been. Nobody does research like triggers. I love it. I love it. Take care, Jonathan, mate. That's a lovely, lovely story and a lovely question. Why is baldness not a great attractor of women, given that it is supposedly, I think, evidentially it is an indicator of high testosterone levels. 20 minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. David's in Darlington. Question or answer? Question, James. Go on. So, why do we cry when we're sad or happy? Yeah, I like that. I mean, they're all. We're doing this deliberately. We're having sort of straight physiological type questions for the. It's like a natural history hour, isn't it? Yeah. Well, it was based on that question out a few weeks, a few weeks ago about watery eyes. Yes, well, that was dry eyes, which slightly counterintuitively named condition, isn't it? So why do we cry? So you have your tear ducts to show, to clean. They flush things out of your eyes. Yes. So why do you cry? Like the end of toy story three. It's wonderful life. Or weddings or funerals. What's the last thing you cried at? It's a wonderful life. It's such a beautiful film, isn't it? It is, it really is superb. Thank you, David. I'll try and find out for you. And so, yeah, I mean, that is. That's an evolutionary thing as well, isn't it? So the evolutionary expression of baldness, crying, sunburned sheep and gorillas, fingernails. I'm not going to repeat the questions, I'm just going to give you the broad subject areas. So, crying, baldness, sunburned sheep and gorillas, fingernails zero. 345-606-0973 thank you, David. Brian is in healing. Brian, question or answer? Hello, James. Good afternoon. Hello, Brian. I've got a question I'd like to ask. What is the significance that if you spill some table salt that you throw a pinch over your left shoulder? I can remember this going back to the early sixties, but I never understood why I know this. I think because we've had it before, but I'm 99% certain that I fully and completely remember the reason for this. And oddly, I'm going, Brian, to help you picture the answer, I'm going to remind you of the well known cartoon cat and mouse, Tom and Jerry. Oh, yes, yes. And do you remember quite often in Hanna Barbera or Looney tunes cartoons, you would have a devil and a saint, a devil and an angel appearing on the shoulders of the character? Yeah, I do. And the devil would be on the left shoulder and would whisper, for example, go on, steal it or drink it or eat it or whatever, or go and kick it. And the angel would say, oh, no, don't do that. That is terrible. You must do the right thing. So the devil, historically, is perceived as being sitting on your left shoulder, and if you spill salt, you throw a pinch over your left shoulder to cancel the bad luck that you would get otherwise. Oh, I see. So it would minimize any bad luck coming your way. That's superstition, isn't it? Combined with a little bit of religion. And some people will now text me to say religion is superstition, but hopefully I've just saved them fivepence. And we've pointed that out that some people believe that already. That is your answer, Brian. Well, thank you for that, James. Oh, you're very welcome. I shall accept a round of applause with your compliments. But I won't put myself in to the competition for the mystery outboard game. Cordelia is in. Bushy. Question or answer, Cordelia question? Please carry on. Okay. Do or can moth and butterfly mate together? You are disgusting. Moths and moths and butterflies sitting in a tree. But no, it's actually in my ivy. Is it what you have, you think. What you think they may have. Well, I had a little. I took a picture on it. It's on my facebook. Yes. And it's very micro. Micro butterfly. That look like a moth, right? It looks like a blue british butterfly. Yes. But it also looks like a small, dusty wave, and it's like a cross in between. So you think it might be the flight? You think it might be the result of moth. Butterfly crossbreeding? It looks like an hybrid. A hybrid. That's it. Yes. I put it on Facebook just to ask people, and everyone is bamboozled. And it could be a moth or it could be a butterfly and we. Or it could be a little bit of both. Well, look, a donkey and a horse make a mule. No, they don't. They make an a. Or an eeyore. No, they do. And there's another one as well, isn't there? There's a. There's. What's the other one? A mule, a donkey and a. Oh, I can't remember. Um, like, you know, the two mules for, you know, Sister Sara or something like that. You know, like in. Exactly. It was a clintesthood movie. Oh, yes. Do we have an eyebreed, do we have hybrids between a moth and butterfly? Because this one, that micro one, stayed on our windows. It was a heat wave. Yes. And it stayed on the window for ages, throughout the night and throughout the day. Was it. Could it have been dead? No, it was not dead. He was flying away afterwards. Okay, well, I don't think they can. I don't. Do you get. Do you get moth caterpillars? What's a moth? Larvae. What's a moth before it's a moth? Sounds like a riddle. I don't know. I really don't know. I'm not an entomologist or, you know. No, nor am I the lepidopterist. Actually, I think would be more accurate. That's it. If we have an answer from an answer, I would love it. We need a lepidopterist. There's something I've never said before. Is there a lepidopterist in the house? We shall try and find out. And the best way to do is to do this. Can butterflies and moths have little babies, 03456 or big babies? Zero. 345-606-0973 Cordelia. Thank you. I shall get you an answer. My feeling is that it's unlikely. But your feeling is that it's likely. Am I right? We may never know. 27 minutes after twelve is the time Terry is in Chelmsford. Terry, question or answer? It's a question, James. It's a frivolous question. Again, I'm afraid. We all like frivolous. Where would we be without frivolous questions? Terry, what is a monger? Why can they only sell fish or iron or advocate war? You don't go to a shoe monger or a hair monger to get you. Or when you're buying anything, it's just fish, iron. Or they advocate war. We've done this. Have we? Have you? We do. God does. It was me who phoned in an archetype and I've forgotten. We're all at that age. We're all at that age now, Terry. It's perfectly plausible. Oh, flipping eck. There are other examples as well. There were other. Yeah, but I can't remember what they. I think if you go back in time, I think there might be been ale mongers, although I've never heard of that. No. Well, it's olden days stuff. Are you sure? Quite sure. Quite sure. I. It's gonna be Latin, I think. Or Latin or Anglo Saxon, but I think it's Latin. What would the Latin word be? So there's two questions, really. Why do we use it and why do we only use it for fish iron or war or scandal. Oh, can you have a scandal monger currently? Scandal monger, fishmonger, iron, manga, warmonger. Yeah, well, you don't say. I'm going to buy some shoes. I'm going to the Schumann. No, but perhaps you did once. What? Went to the Costa monger. Costa munger. Oh, yeah. But what is a Costa monger? Are they selling Costa. What is it, a coffee? I can't remember what a Costa monger is, but you're only allowed one question, so put that back or put that away. I can't think of mongers. I can't think of any. All right. I mean, so why is it only those relatively few examples? Yeah. Or I'll accept either answer with your permission, Terry, on this occasion. Yeah. So if they can tell us where the manga comes from, that would be good. Or why the manga is confined to the four or five areas that we've identified. Yeah. Art Monger. There's no thing Mike set up. Gossip monger. Gossip Monger. I think you're making things up, Jerry. I think we had this question a few years back, and I'm stringing it out in the hope that I'll have a little flash of memory stroke inspiration, but so far I've got nothing, Terry. Okay, all right, all right. You're on the list. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much. So we want the butterflies, the moths. What's it, someone who sells butterflies? A butterfly? I don't think so. Butterfly monger, a moth monger. Do any other primates bite their nails through stress? Do sheep get sunburned? Why don't. I don't know. Emma suggests that the notion that men, women don't find bald men attractive might be down to the men's insecurity. And people keep sending me pictures of Pep Guardiola, which none of us need. I don't know that that's true, but that's Jonathan's question. Is there an evolutionary reason for women not to find bald men as attractive as men with hair? Why do we cry when we're happy or sad? Do butterflies and moths mate? Lovely question from Cordelia and the Munger question that we definitely had quite recently, but I can't remember the answer to it. And so it's an open goal there for somebody. David's in Tufnell part. David, question or answer? Question? James. Carry on. As a bald individual primate, I hope. I have to ask, I'm afraid, yet another natural history question. Oh, good lord. This is a different one. Are humans the only species, when sober, suffer from dizziness and balance issues? Because I. I see squirrels and pretty big fat cats. Isn't that a Louis Armstrong song? I see squirrels, really bad fat cats. Go on. That's not. But I see them wandering along fences and ledges, completely surefooted. I never see them wobble. I never see them fall off. Yeah, but you've never seen a dog do it? No, and I've never seen it. I've never seen any animal clearly wobbling. I mean, when they wobble, if you made a dog do it, the dog would wobble. Oh, no, no. I'm gonna have to report you to the RSPCA. I'm not suggesting that anyone makes their dog walk across a fence, but the animals. I think what we've got here is a category error, because I think you're basing your question on the ones you've seen that can balance, whereas in fact, all the ones you've never seen balance, you've never seen balance because they can't balance? Possibly. I mean, I don't think I'd see an elephant walking along a fence. Exactly. Okay, let me turn the question around. I'm going to try and help you here, James. Thank you. You're welcome. Are humans the only animals that suffer from dizziness and balance issues, or do other animals also have balance and dizziness? But to me, it's all about balance, really. It is all about balance. It's something to do with the ears, isn't it? Balance and ears. So if you somehow got a chimpanzee to do that thing with a broomstick where you spin around and around and with the chimpanzee, then stagger all over the place like a human? Exactly. Because then, of course, if it got very stressed, it might start biting its nails. So if we. If we could do a cruel experiment, we'd be able to get two answers for the price of one this week. I'm. Wait, I'm waiting for somebody to call you with the answers to the first at least four of these questions. So it might be the same person. It is an odd. It's an odd diversion into natural history, sort of biological based questions. But you're on. Is the human? Is the human? I'd be amazed if other animals didn't, especially primates. Oddly, it didn't have similar things. But we need to know, don't we? Have you ever seen a dog on a skateboard? Have you? Only on Twitter. Only on. Only on YouTube. But they are capable of some balance, but not as much balance, I would say, as a squirrel. I don't know who's going to be able to answer this, David. Thank you. Barry's in Battersea. Barry, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Barry. So it's an answer to do sheep get sunburned? Yes, the answer is, absolutely. They do what? Yes, they do. So I've got a bit of a story here. So my brother used to have a couple of pet. I know it's an odd thing to keep as a pet, that he lives in deepest, darkest whales, so it seemed appropriate to keep the lawn short. You say pet companions, companion sheep. That's cool than that. Yes. And anyway, one of his sheep got all purple on its forehead and scabby, and they got the vet out because they had some kind of disease and the vets basically said, it's actually sunburn. So he used to have to get up every morning, wander down to the field and slap sun cream all over the forehead of Dolly. Yeah. Dolly's mate didn't get sunburned, but Dolly got sunburned. Well, I presume they know. Do they like humans? So they would go for the shade, because I was thinking about sheeps. Sheeps in hot countries, but you'd know that you're in danger of getting. So you just go and stand in the shade or lie down and keep the. So only the muzzle, as it were. Well, it was. But that's because they were. They were woolly. But I guess if you shaved them, who knows? No, I reckon it's just the muzzle. Because purple sheep. But you wouldn't be able to. To find enough shade, necessarily, to shade a hole by sheep in a field. But the muzzle, you're always going to be able to shade because you just face the other way from the sun, don't you? Possibly. Possibly. But the answer is yes. The answer is they can get sunburned because Barry's brother's sheep did. Absolutely. And in other news, I've also seen dogs surfing on the Internet, so that's pretty good balance as well. And you're not really supposed to do that, but I'll pretend it never happened. Does your brother still. Are the sheep still with us? No, they've. They've passed. They've passed, unfortunately. But they had a great life. That's good to know. Sausages or anything else? No. Well, that's good to know. Thank you. Would you like a round of applause? First one of the day, I think. There you go. And Dolly as well. The memory of Dolly. 1239 is the time Daniel's in Stoke. Daniel, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Why do cricket players still wear trousers? What do you want them to wear, your weirdo? Well, it's a summer sport. I've never. Oh, you mean shorts. Shorts. Why don't they wear. Yeah, why don't they wear shorts? I mean, a. I've never understood why, you know, football is a winter game and they wear shorts. And then the English invented this game that they play in the summer. It's not, though, is it? It's an english summer. And you don't run around, you do. It's mostly standing around. I mean, there's a case to be made for bowlers wearing shorts, but for the rest of them, first of all, you wouldn't be able to strap your pads on it. It pinch terribly, wouldn't it? If you strapped your pads on your naked flesh, you'd get some terrible, terrible pains. Yes, I can imagine. Well, I mean, when you see them training and warming up, it's all. It's all shorts, and they're in the net because they're training and warming up. They're doing a lot more physical activity than they are doing during an actual game. I just don't understand why, you know, they must get cold. Three reasons, then. Number one, it gets cold when you're standing around doing nothing, which is about 80% of cricket. Number two, when you put strap your pads on, you don't want to be able to catching little bits of flesh in between the catches and the buckles, because that would really flipping smart. And number three, where are you going to shine the ball? I'm sure they could find somewhere. And they mostly shine it on the back of their side, don't they? Yeah, but slower down than the average short, isn't it? It goes almost down to the knee. You want to be shining your ball. It's just, you know, looking at Ben Stokes last week, you know, just getting. Looking so hot, it just seems silly. I mean, football, it was hot. It was a very hot day, but it was one of the hottest days ever. If they were playing in April or October, it wouldn't be, would it? I mean, that is the reason. I just think it's one of those things that people do because it's traditional. You're not accepting my answer. You're clearly not accepting my answer. Daniel, I think you look back at tennis and all the old players are there wearing their long trainers, running around all the time in tennis. But I think they do that in cricket now, don't they? No, they don't. What if you're, I don't know, mid on, long on or something like that. But if you were gonna sit down and invent the game of cricket now, yeah. There's no way that you would invent the clothes for it and go, I know, long trousers. Have you ever caught a little bit of flesh in a buckle? Well, yes, but that's why I would. That's why if I was inventing the game of cricket now, I would insist on long trousers. I don't know. It seems silly. You know, I've never thought, I'm gonna go and play some cricket in the backyard with one of my sons. You know what? I'll just go and take my shorts off, put some trousers on. No, but that's a silly parallel, because you're not playing a five day Test match with your. You would do. Because especially if the weather turned, got a bit parky and they wear jump. Why do you think they've got jumpers then? Clever clogs. Well, that. Only the. You know, only the wimps wear jumpers. Nonsense. They all wear jumpers. Sometimes the umpires got about eight jumpers. Why do they wear jumpers? Answer the question. Oh, I think it's. I bet it's more the non english players that do that. And it's probably to do with superstition. Nothing to do with superstition. I've got. Still got a cricket jumper from my school. And why do cricketers wear jumpers? Answer the question. I don't know. Maybe because it gets cold, chilly. Ergo, they wear long trousers. Yeah. No, I'm not convinced. This is ridiculous. Now, I don't know what else I can do. I've just brought the jumpers to the park party. True, but they also. We both know the jumpers. We both know the jumpers. The jumpers has ended this. We both know it. But only one of us is prepared to admit it. Okay, you win. Thank you. Round of applause for me. Very gracious, Daniel. I wasn't expecting that. Capitulation, actually. I must be honest. I sense it was reluctant. I'm happy to oblige. Thank you very much. And where is your answer? It gets flipping, Carl. You do a lot of standing around doing nothing on a mediocre day or even on a cold day. Julia's in Banster. Julia, question or answer? Hi there, James. I know it's only you. I'm really nervous. I've been looking forward to this day, like, all of my adult life, so I finally have. Oh, the pressure's on now. Pressure's on now. Gone. So it's the nails, the nail biting. Yes. And just through sheer luck, I was on a course yesterday because we have to take regular courses in the NHS, and this one was a mental health call. And it was that the guy was saying that humans are the only species on earth that have the perception of death, that know about the future and the past, so they're. We're the only ones that fear our own mortality, so we're the only ones that feel anxiety, so in that. That animals will feel stress, as in, like, at that moment. So, as I was explaining to the. To the producer. Yes. It's just that if you have a lion chasing. I don't know, whatever it is that. The gazelle. Gazelle. Gazelle, yeah. A long way from home. It'd be a long, long way from home if it was chasing an elk, Julia. Or possibly in a zoo. It could be in a zoo, I suppose. So. Anyway, he's chasing your gazelle and he's going after it and it misses the gazelle on the bum. It misses it. And then the gazelle then thinks, I'm going to go back there and start eating my grass again, because it only fears that in the moment, it doesn't know that that lion will come back and kill because it doesn't have any conception of its own death. Okay. A bit like. So it's like Boris Johnson in a way. It lives entirely in the nanosecond and it's all about instant gratification or fear. Fight or flight is an animal. So that. That's. Yeah, that's a beautiful. So you will have, like. You'll have, like, parrots that will peck their feathers out because they're stressed at the moment and their own invite, but they won't be doing it because they fear anything in the future or, you know, like the biting of the nail. Existential. It's not existential. It's just. I really hate it in this cage. Yes. Yeah. Yes, you're on. Yeah. Qualifications? Qualifications. I went on a course yesterday. Do it, Keith. Yes. Look at that. Fantastic. Thank you, Julia. My husband's gonna eat that. Yes, dad. Yeah, you might even win the board game, Julia, just to put the cherry on the icing on the cake. Oh, don't. I don't want you to get over it. And then you'll take it away. I don't want you to get overexcited. I don't want you to go over it. It's hot enough out there, Julia. You take care. Thank you for the lovely words. It is 1249. We better hurry up. Todd's in market. Drayton. Todd. Question or answer? James. Carry on, mate. It's the moss and butterfly action. Yes. So they don't actually crossbreed. So they're genetically quite different, but they're part of the same group, lepidoptera, which, from the latin, means scales on the wings. So, interestingly, that's why. That's why people think moths have dust for blood. It's actually the scales coming off the wings. Oh, gosh. Wow. They have quite similar mating rituals. Do they? Moths and butterflies, or depending on the family. So there's. They mostly use pheromones to attract mates, but it's very species specific. I like it. So we actually. We actually have about two and a half thousand species of moth in the UK, as opposed to about 60 species of butterfly. But they definitely can't mate with each other. It's very, very. The genetics would have to line up, so it's never going to. The evolution. Yeah. Qualifications? I studied entomology at master's level and I specialized in moss. Now you do? Well, I studied that. I'm actually studying a PhD now, looking at arable field margins. Gosh. So where's Market Drayton? In Shropshire. Yes. So it's a university there that's used to be an agricultural college, is now a university. Ah, there we go. Okay. God, how fascinating. Yeah. I bet it's never coming this useful before, has it? It hasn't come a little useful. And this is actually the first time I'm listening to mystery hour live today. I might normally catch up on the podcast about live. That's such a lovely moment of serendipity. It was literally your question, wasn't it, that came up? Yes, literally. This is me. This is my moment as Martine McCutcheon one sang. Todd. Yes. Massive round of applause for you, mate. Lovely work. Thank you very much. Look at that. How sensational. 1251 is the time. Other ones that still need answers. The Munger question. Why do we cry? That should be quite straightforward. Is there an evolutionary basis for believing that women don't find bald men attractive? Do only humans have balance problems? And I took Daniel's cricket trousers question. Apparently it's velcro now on pads, but the jumpers was the zigzag, not the velcro. Why do cricketers wear long trousers? Well, why do they have jumpers? Because even however hot it is today, next time they play, it could be cold and you'd rather have long trousers. Also, they're quite baggy. They're not like. They're not that hot or unpleasant. Kerry's in Guildford. Kerry, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So the word monger is to describe a trader or a dealer in a specific product, originally from the latin word? Yes. Do we know what word. What was the original latin word? No, it escapes me. But I. But I'm going to go with cheese because I'm a cheesemonger. You are a cheesemonger. So am I, actually. Are you? Most days. Most days? There's not a good profession to have. And the question of why is it only specific to some trades? Why don't we talk about, you know, beer mongers or, I don't know, flipping salt mongers? Chances are we did once. It's just that some have survived and some haven't. Well, we probably did, but it used to be a kind of a good term, a nice term, and it's become less favorable. Yeah. When you talk about scandal mongers or warmongers or that kind of thing, but no, it just means a trader, and it comes from the Latin. And it has, over the years, narrowed down to Costa monger, cheesemonger, fishmonger and iron monger. Pretty much, yeah. So raw materials, products, coffee. You. I think you used to have coffee mungers. Yeah. That's got you a round of applause, I think. Thank you. Look at that. Where do you. Monga cheese? I monga cheese in Lippock in Hampshire. So you're. You're in Guildford today? I'm in Guildford mostly. How do you pronounce it? Lip hook. Not lip hook. I've been pronouncing it lip hook all my life. Lip hook. Lip hook. Lip hook. Do you have a cheese shop or do you just produce? I have a. I have a cheese horse box. So I sell my cheese from a converted horse box markets or you have a permanent bath? I have a few permanent pitches that I go to, but I tow the horse box from pitch to pitch. Do you have a name for your business? I do it. I do. It's mascarpone. Mascarpone. Oh, well played. Did you get the one already? Is that too? Yeah. Well, you deserve it. Kerry, that was beautifully played. Thank you. I didn't know, by the way, that that was coming. I just was trying to give her a free plug. I didn't know we were going to get a free pun as well. Tom's in West Molesley in Surrey. Tom, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. So, about humans and balance. So basically, anything over the size of a medium sized cat would have to have a stabilizing mechanism for them. That is a dog, for example. They've got a center of ground, a lower center of gravity than humans. For example, cats. Anything smaller than the medium sized sort of cat, gravity has less of an effect on them, just down to their overall mass. Are you serious? Yeah, yeah. So, yeah, it all comes down to the center of mass over the size of anything over the size of a cat. Medium sized cat. So if you notice, like some. Some slightly larger, larger cats will struggle with climbing things and they'll fall more frequently, just down to the fact that they are now a mass, that gravity has more of an effect on them. Qualifications. So, I studied biomechanics at university. Okay, because I've torn on this, because it sounds extremely plausible, but it also sounds. It also sounds a tiny bit unlikely in that gravity doesn't work as much on little things as it does on big things. But if you think about it, like the moon versus the earth and the sun, the. The mass difference in the amount of pull that it has. And then if you go down to say something like a single atom, the earth isn't pulling on a single atom. The. The effect on an electron. Oh, brilliant answer. Yeah. Round of applause. Round of applause, Tom, that's really nicely done. Cross that one off. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. I like this. We've come good right at the end, haven't we? It's like a sort of sprint finish. Is it like a sprint finish? It's like a sprint finish. Scott's in Clydebank. Scott, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Carry on. And so why do we cry when we are happy or sad? Hang on a minute. I just need to check, I think. Is that the last one? Do I need to go? Just because. No offense, but I'll. We've got. Still got baldness, if someone can ring in with that. But I don't think anyone is at the moment, so don't be offended. Scoff. It feels like I'm stringing this call out a bit. All right, no, no worries. I'd be interested in the boldness one. I'm selfish, I'm fading a little bit on top, so that would be a good answer. They have to carry on. And so the reason we cry when we're happy and sad is because when you're happy, when you're sad, your brain releases chemicals, as we know, has to release those chemicals somehow through your system, and they come out through your teals. Are you serious? Yep. Absolutely. There was a study, I can't remember when it was done, and they analyzed the chemical components of tears, and the chemical components are released on your brain when you're happy and sad and find your tears so that you're washing out the washing out chemicals of some sort. All right, then, clever clogs. If you're happy and you know it, why do you clap your hands? Why would you know what? You also stamp your feet. Qualifications. So I worked on child mental health, and it was research that, in a way, to help children understand that it was okay to cry. Oh, mate. That's one of my all time favorite qualifications. So you're giving them that? It's one of my favorite facts of all time. All the time. Why do you go to the toilet? Because you need to release the toxins. So why is it up? Why do you not cry? Because you need to release those toxins. Let them out. And it's absolutely okay. It's a normal bodily function. Oh, that's beautiful. I have a round of applause. I love that. I love that. Thank you very much. And I've actually spoken to you twice in one week. This is like a lifetime achievement. That's a record. It's not normally allowed, but mystery hour is like a twilight zone where none of the normal rules apply. Thank you, Scott. I love that. I'll remember that as well, Cam in Coventry. I mean, I felt I answered that question fairly comprehensively, but I can give you 10 seconds, Cam. Okay. Students inquiry about the cricket trousers. Back in the day, women used to wear skirts. Yeah, yeah. So that would sort of negate your. They weren't allowed to wear trousers. Well, there you go. It's part of cricket, though, isn't it? It's the rules. It doesn't negate. It doesn't negate. It doesn't negate anything. The question was, why don't they wear shorts? Because. Because they would be cooler. And the answer is, they don't want to be cooler because it gets so cold out there. Ergo, they have jumpers. No, no, no. It was about shorts and trousers. The lower half of the body. Yes, but it was. But it was a weather based question. It was based on the idea that they'd get to. I knew we shouldn't have done that. Mind. There you go, Cam, if you have missed. Oh, my favorite is Julia, isn't it? I mean, even if it wasn't, it would be. She was so lovely. And also, you know, her husband might not believe she got on, but if she gets a brand spanking new mystery out through the post, she'll be home and dry. Although I have to say, this week, if Julia hadn't come along, it would have been a very tough choice. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player or on the whole show podcast, where you'll also find all of LBC shows to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcasts, including the Mystery Hour. There's a huge mystery hour archive you could probably listen to mystery hours between now and Christmas. Non stop download global player for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com.