If I give blood, do I transfer antibodies?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, good. We didn't have one last week. Four minutes after twelve is the time your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your, on your dial, your radio dial. It's all a bit of fun. If you're new to the program, I should probably apologize, because you're going to get a very unrealistic idea of what life is like. Usually we never talk about roads, which we spoke about in the last hour. We very, very rarely interview politicians apart from our monthly appointment with the mayor of London, but that, frankly, is so that he can answer your questions, as opposed particularly to mine. And we don't have any light hearted features except for this one on a Thursday from twelve. So today's show is completely unrepresentative of the James O'Brien experience. Ordinarily, however, it is great fun and I am very fond of it and I hope by the end of this hour you will be too. The number you need to join in, if you already know what I am wanging on about, is zero 345-606-0973 and if you don't know, stand by. It, is the on air partner, if you like, the sister of those magazine and newspaper features that used to be very popular. I need to change my shtick and spiel here slightly because they're not that popular anymore because we've got the Internet. So younger listeners probably will be unaware of the fact that you used to have to write to woman's own or the Daily Express with a question about the origin of a word or a question, a why, a what, a where, a when, what do we do that for? When does that come from? Who, why, what, where, when? But of course you don't anymore because you can just google it. And because life is so easily googled. We launched this feature about 306 years ago as a desperate attempt, like King Canute. Don't me. I know what Canute was really trying to do, but the received with the popular interpretation of King Canute was that he tried to stop the waves from coming in all right. What he was actually doing was demonstrating to his nobles that he wasn't as powerful as some of them thought he was by showing that he couldn't control the sea. But hey ho, gosh, anyone been more misrepresented throughout history than king canute? Unbelievable. At least they spelt his name right. And he sits on the beach stopping the waves coming. So I am sitting on the beach, trying to stop the Internet from taking over our lives. You'll agree it's going very well at the moment, hardly any of us. Hardly any of us rely upon the Internet in this day and age. So say I started this feature about ten years ago. Take that, Internet. Yeah. Come on, then. Come and have it. Yeah. So it's about actually the school story today, which was the thing we would have talked about if we hadn't talked about roads making exams sort of easier. It makes perfect sense, unless you're really old and rusty. The idea that you would take a calculator into an exam used to stick in my craw because you weren't allowed to do it when I was a kid, so therefore it must be wrong. And you sort of think, well, you can't take. But actual exams should really be about what you do with information now, increasingly, don't you think, rather than how much information you have memorized and can regurgitate. Do you see what I mean? I just think the world is changing in such. I look at my children, or I sometimes try to help them do their homework and they usually end up helping me. I don't think that they are learning in a way that is very similar to the way in which I learned as a younger person, because I still needed to memorize. I had to memorize, I mean, pages of Virgil for my latino level. You got through that exam by literally learning by rote versus, I think it was the aeneid. And that would be pointless for my kids generation because they can literally get the whole. The complete works of Virgil on their watches, if they had fancy watches. But you take my point, so it's just fun. I don't know why I'm oversized. It is just a nice little way in which you can show off your knowledge, so you're not allowed to look anything up. People ring in with questions. If you can answer one because of stuff you already know, then ring in and all I'll ask you is to answer the question and then to reveal the source of your knowledge. Now, the source of your knowledge or your qualifications can be anything from having watched it on the telly last night to having conducted a PhD in it 30 years ago. Do you see what I mean? It's like an antidote to Google, in a way, because I do miss or I do mourn the passing of learned information. All that's worth learning by rote these days is probably poems, isn't it? I'm really struggling with one at the moment. Ambulances by Philip Larkin. I've been trying to commit it to memory since the middle of lockdown. It was the second line that really got me. Poems rhyme easily. They're much easier to learn. So closed, like confessionals, they thread, and then loud noons of cities is the second line. It's taken me months to get that buried in my brain. In a way that means I remember it every time. Should we crack on with mister? That concludes poetry minute on the program today. Let's go to Chris, who's in healing. Chris, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. There's a question. Question. Please carry on. If I'm given a vaccine for any, you know, virus, doesn't matter which one it is. And then I give blood, and then that blood's used to treat somebody, do they then take on the vaccine that I've been given? Oh, lord, I wouldn't have thought so. Would you? Well, it was. My daughter asked it this morning, and I thought, that's so obvious, and I thought, that's a silly question. And I started to. Well, it's a silly question. Yeah. I mean, it's such a tiny. Well, I would. Oh, I know. It's one of those moments where I've got to resist my urge to start pontificating out loud and acknowledge from the very start that I have not got a clue. Whilst you're there, James, can I just ask you something else? Is that okay? Not a question, but just something else? No. Oh, please, I'm begging you. No. You're freaking me out. You haven't run it by the producer. You know, you might commit a libel, or you might do something awful. Sorry, Chris. I can check with the producer. I don't want to come across as unkind. And then if the producer approves, you can come back and do it. But I have to be careful. I'm not being mean. Tony's in Islington. Tony, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Tony. Corned beef comes in a can that's sort of pyramidal shaped and has a key. Yes. Nothing else that I can think of anywhere in any product is shaped like that or doesn't come in a regular can with either a pull or used for a tin opener. And I wondered, why isn't it so that you can serve it whole? I don't know. I just thought you could have opened a tin and poured it out, you know, kind of trying to remember. I think. I think I know this, or we've done it before. Corned beef. Why is corned beef tinned? Uniquely? Absolutely. Yeah. You need a key and everything. And you need a key for sardines, don't you? Sometimes. Not this day and age. Let's be honest, I had some this morning for breakfast and it's got a ring called. Okay. No, it's on the board. We'll do it. So can you. And also, Chris's question was completely uncontroversial. Just to be clear, he wasn't up to no good or being mischievous or anything, but he was going to ask whether or not there were any plans for a mystery, our board game or book, which. Funny you should say that, actually, Chris, Sean's in Whisbey. Sean, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Sean, assuming the sun isn't a ball of gas. The newspaper. I beg pardon? The newspaper. I think we can all agree it is a ball of gas. Sorry. And it's not constantly fed by gas. Right. It must be a solid. Hey, go on. No, I've just. You've just lost me already, mate. This isn't my field of expert. I don't really have a field. But the sun is a ball of gas, isn't it? Well, nobody's got close enough to have a look, I suppose, but I'm assuming it's a solid. The sun is assuming the sun is a solid. It's hot plasma. Well, my question is, whatever it's made of is when is it likely to burn out? When will the sun burn out? Yeah, all right. Yeah, well, that's all right. I don't. I mean, I did. The solid stuff was, was confusing me. It's a hot ball of gases, mate. It is, it is, it is a ball of gas. But we can still ask the question, when will it go out? Oh, right. I didn't realize that you thought it was solid. Well, yeah, see, I was about to take the mickey out of you then, but to be honest, it's actually easier to believe that it's a ball of. That it's solid than it is a ball of gas, isn't it? Because it looks like all the other planets. Just looks like a glowing moon or something like that. And it's dead round. Yeah, that's right. It keeps its shape, doesn't it? It's your lucky day. I'm not going to take the mickey out of your shawn. Thank you. But you'll try and find out. When will the sun go out? And if I got time to get home before it does, we'd be dead in a nanosecond, wouldn't we? I like that question. I could end up looking like a right muppet now, but I'm 99.999 recurring, confident that the sun is a ball of gas. Gas is plural, in fact. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can answer any of the questions on the board so far. Vaccines, corned beef and the sun. Rob is in sunbury. Rob, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on. Rob, how did curry sauce become so ubiquitous with the chip shop? That's a good question, actually. And I bet it has something to do with chinese chip shops as opposed to british owned ones, where they would they primarily. I don't know. I just know that when I lived. I don't know. But you would imagine that the curry sauce was available to go with other things and people developed a penchant for having it on their chips because it's very mild. It's closer to the curry we introduced to Japan, rather than the curry we bought over from India. Did we introduce, as in katsu curry type katsu sauce? Was that a british thing? Or as I've been led to believe, yes, we introduced. I don't want to start over there. We've got enough culture wars going on without bringing katsu and curry into it. But, yeah. Why did curry sauce become a staple in british fish and chip shops? Yes, I like that a lot, actually, because gravy makes sense. But curry sauce is a strange one. We used to think it was hilarious when I lived in Chilton cum hardy, there were two chippies, both run by chinese families. And if you asked for curry sauce, the lady in one of them would say, if you want curry sauce, you have to go to Hong Kong, because the other chile, the other chippy up the road, and this is going back 20 years, so I'm sure it's changed now. Nearly 30 years, actually. God, I'm old. Was called Hong Kong. But when you're getting your chips after a night in the pub and the lady says, if you want curry sauce, you have to go to Hong Kong, it was. Wait, I guess you had to be there. It's 1215 lBC. 4560-6097 318 after twelve is the time. If I take the vaccine and then I give blood and you get my blood, you lucky people, will you be immune from the thing, what I have been vaccinated against? I think that's quite a nice question. Although I lean in one direction on it. Why does corn beef and spam. You forgot about spam, but why do they come in? That's differently shaped tin with the key on it, compared to pretty much all other tinned goods. When will the sun go out? And why? Or when did curry sauce become a staple? Or indeed, why did Curry sauce become a staple in british fish and chip shops? I just want to give a shout to Daniela, who rang in earlier on the speak to Siddiq phone in when she was asking about the cycle lane on High Street, Kensington. Kensington High street. And she's tweeted the clip, which we've put out, and she's added, great interruption by app. Mister James ob I would have gone on and on, Daniela. You've no idea how much that's tickled me, because I don't like doing something. I'm an appalling interrupter. I've got this awful habit of knowing what you're going to say next and responding to it before you've said it. And I know it winds you up a lot, and I know I should by now have got a little bit better at it. Sometimes I really do have to step in, because I do get a sense that if I. Because it's not a normal environment to ring into a radio station, and sometimes I can just sense that if I don't step in, we're never going to get to the question. But I'm very conscious of not wanting to be rude. I've got no problem with being rude, but only when I want to be rude. I hate being unintentionally rude or upsetting people accidentally. Got no problem with that. Upsetting people on purpose, as you know. So that was lovely to see Daniela actually saying thank you effectively and conceding that if I hadn't interrupted, she would have gone on and on. Inverness, Susan, question or answer? And Sir James. Carry on. Susan, if you are vaccinated, and if you have an antibody response to it, and if you then went to give blood, there would be some of the antibody in your blood, but highly unlikely that there would be sufficient in order to protect the recipient of your blood. The reason I say that is that for years there was a practice within the United Kingdom, it is done worldwide, of taking plasma, specifically not blood, from what's called hyper immune donors. Now that's donors who've either been exposed to a virus or a specific antigen, and they have developed a very high antibody level to it. The plasma from these donors was then pooled together in very large numbers and subjected to a process called fractionation, which then split off the bits of the plasma that you didn't want, such as the albumin and the clotting factors, and left the antibodies or the immunoglobulin. That immunoglobulin was then put into little vials and used to provide passive immunity for people who had been exposed to that particular virus or antigen. So, for instance, hepatitis b immunoglobulin was used to protect healthcare workers who had a nasal stick injury or anti D. Immunoglobulin is used for the d negative mothers who have rhesus d posted babies to prevent them from becoming immunised. But it only is passive. It doesn't give you long lasting immunity. And as I say, it would have to be pulled from thousands of donors. I'm not sure we've ever had a more comprehensive answer than that. Well, I worked for 33 plus years in the blood transfusion service, one of my jobs of which was recruiting donors to donate hyper immunoplasma. Do you know, when this question was asked, I had no idea that it would prompt such a perfect answer. Now, when we get an answer of this quality with qualifications that are this magnificent, I don't know if you are aware of what can sometimes happen, Susan, but it is about to. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. I love the way he says that at the end. And, of course, a round of applause, Susan, as well. James, I answered a previous question on blood group antigens and I thought so, yes. And I sent you the photograph of my Rayleigh auto. I know. That's two for two, isn't it? You've had two. Now. Do you sit there every week waiting. Do you sit there every week waiting for a blood question to come up? No. No, I was. I was cooking the lunch and by chance I thought, oh, I must put the radio on because we've been decorating the Christmas tree and things. Things. And the question came up. My husband said, you have to answer it. You have to answer quick. Get on, get on, get on. Love it, love it, love it, love it. What are you having for lunch? A vegetarian pastry parcel. Things with lots of veg. Sounds delicious. And two rays. I wonder if anyone else got the two rays. Two rays. Next time he's in London, we'll have to get him to record a special one for Susan. For some reason, when I saw him, Vanessa and I heard. I heard Susan's voice, I sort of thought she. She's been here before. Tracy's in Manchester. Tracy, question or answer? Well, I can't follow that, Jane. You don't have. You don't have to. Tracy, don't worry. I'm on your side. I am a clean person and run a fairly tidy house. Right. But on the odd occasion when we have moths or I spot moth holes in clothes, they always tend to be in the same sort of region, which is at the front, around the belly button area. Really? Yes. They will appear in other places, but predominantly in that spot. And I always wondered why. Please. Well, may I have a. May I have a go? How do you know? I don't think moths are a sign of dirtiness? I think they prefer either way. What I would like you to tell me is how you store your clothes. When you put them away, do you fold them and put them in drawers? No, they're hung in a wall. Oh, well, that goes my theory. Then there goes my theory, because I thought if they're piled on top of each other, then, you know, like. Because I used to work in river island, but I still have anxiety dreams about folding 600 jumpers a day. But if they were in a big pile like that, do you see what I mean? Then it would be the point of access. But they're hanging up in a wardrobe and you think, yes, they always seem to be around, but that doesn't make any sense, does it? I know. And are you sure, though? Because once you've got an idea like this in your head, you could see 100 moth holes, and only four of them would. Only four of them would be in the belly button area, but you'd only notice those four because they fix your theory. It's like being a Brexiter, claiming that the vaccine had something to do with Brexit. You see what you want to see, Tracy. Well, I don't know. You've got me thinking now, but we're mining and inspecting the clothes. Well, I'm going to put the question on the board, but my friend Luke. My friend Luke thinks he's a clairvoyant, Tracy, because he sends me about ten texts a week predicting things and about two a year come true, and they're the only ones he ever mentions, you see? Which chippy? And Charlton cum hardy, by the way, because I'm not far away from there. Which chippy? Yeah, well, I mean, the one that you go to for fish and chips was next to the swimming baths. The bath. It was. I think it was called. Oh, yes. Super bust. Yeah, that's it. But the ones that I used to go to after being slung out, the coach and horses, they were run by chinese families, and it's 25 years ago now. You can't expect me to remember, but the one, if the one next to the swimming pool is still there, that's some of the best fish and chips I've ever had. Oh, and Tracy, the texts are coming in. The texts are coming in. It is. We've got definitely moth holes. Definitely on the belly button. Oh, hang on a minute. Well, I'm going to leave it on the board, but there is a theory that it might have nothing to do with moths, so stay tuned. I know. Oh, 26 minutes after twelve. It's building. No one builds tension better than I do. Could the holes in Tracy's jumpers be caused by something other than moths? Stay tuned to find out. Ronald's in Fulco. Back up to Scotland. Ronald, question or answer? Good morning, question. Carry on. I'm currently looking at a bank 20 pound note. I could do a mildly racist joke about Scotsman now, but I'm not going to because I'm bigger than that. Ronald. I'm bigger than that. Well done. Well done. Thank you, thank you. It states on the note, the bank of Scotland plc, as it states on other banks, promises to pay the bearer on demand 20 pounds sterling. What would happen if I walk into the bank and demand 20 pounds sterling? Yeah, that's a really good question. After all the years of doing this, I'm always amazed when a really good question pops up that we've never done before. Well, I don't think we've done that before, really. What would happen? I mean, there is one way to find out, of course, Ronald, there is. So, failing this exercise, you may have to drag yourself down to town a little later and march in and see what happens. But what would it if you go in and say, I am the bearer, can I have my sterling, please? Because the. Because the note is not worth anything unless we decide collectively as a society that it is. I love that question. Thank you, Ronald. So what would happen if he took his 20 pound note into the bank and asked for 20 pounds sterling? Why are the holes in Tracy's jumpers always in the belly button area? When did curry sauce become a staple of british fish and chip shops? When will the sun burn out? Why do corned beef and one or two other meat products come in tins that no other stuff comes in? And we've not only answered the vaccine question, we've had a double ray Liotta on the program for what may be the first time. It's coming up to 1229. I can solve a mystery for Natasha in west Norwood. She writes, James, I'm trying to buy your book unsuccessfully. I've used your link on Twitter and the site keeps saying my postcode is incomplete. I've typed it in with and without a gap. Is there an error on the site? I need to give it to my boyfriend for our anniversary on the 17th. Please help. Thank you, Natasha in west Norwood. Well, Natasha, I mean, there are other websites that you can order books from, although you may have issues with some of their business practices. But the shops are open again, the bookshops are open again. Get yourself down a bookshop, ideally, you know, well, any old bookshop, actually. Get yourself down a bookshop. It's in all good bookshops and all the rubbish ones as well. How not to be wrong. The art of changing your mind by James O'Brien in all good bookshops now. So, Natasha, thank you for asking and a round of applause for me, please. Great mystery solving skills there, I think, by me. And the mystery of those holes in the jumpers is becoming ever more intriguing, building up yet more tension. Could it be that those holes are not caused by moths? And anyone getting in touch to say, yes, I've got that as well. I recognize these little holes in the belly button area. Could be you too. Hot past twelve is the time. Thomas Watts is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1234 already, and a few questions on the board in need of answers. I'll run you through what they are shortly, but we continue and Hassanen's next in Whitechapel. Hassanin, question or answer? James. Hi. Hi. How are you? I'm all right, mate. You? Everything all right? Everything good, Lynn? Family okay? Yeah, good, good. What are you driving these days? What are you driving these days? I drive a Toyota. Smart. All right, where were you? I have an answer for that. For the sun. When the sun would run out. First of all, the sun is actually made from gas. It's hydrogen. And basically because it's so hot, so the electron get knocked out and just proton, basically, they get fused in what's called nuclear fusion and they make helium and that difference of some of the mass is lost and that is transformed to energy and so it's made from gas and this gas will run out and it's estimated to be 5 billion years. Billion with a b? Yeah, 5 billion. My producers written million on the board with an m. No, no, five. Sorry. No, I know that, I know that. I just. I can't believe you could get a job on a national radio station thinking the sun might burn out in 5 million years. And even before that, we probably would think, you know, life would last 5 billion. In about 2 billion years. We've got a galaxy that is approaching us. So within 2 billion years, that would crash. What with our Milky Way galaxy. I'll tell you one thing for. So Steve Allen will be covering it live on the radio when it happens. Yeah. That's lovely. What are your qualifications? I have a BSc in biomedical and a PhD in genetics. But how do you know this? How do you know this? Is it just a hobby? I love physics. So, one book. I would recommend just six numbers for Martin Rees. Okay? Just six numbers. He used to be the royalist, the astronomer royal, didn't he? Martin Reese, I think. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just six numbers. It's called. Just six numbers. Amazing book. That's lovely, that. Thank you, mate. Great work. Have one of these. All right. Thank you. No, thank you. 5 billion. 5 billion years. Mike Myers. Crikey. You don't see him around much anymore. But can anyone say that word without thinking of him? Oh, no. Just me. Tom's in yeovil. Tom, question or answer? Hey, James, I've got a question. Carry on. It's when you're nervous or under moments of like, quite high suspense. Why do people shed their legs, shake their leg? Yeah. They're shut down. And their leg wobbles up and down when they're. Like. They're nervous or their suspense. But, I mean, doing it deliberately. Yeah. I mean, I was watching the Formula One a couple of weeks ago. And the songs that were winning were low down and they were first and second. And the camera cut to the team managers along the pit wall. And all three of them were sat on their chairs shaking their legs. Because they weren't expecting to be in that position. Yeah. Okay, well, I. Isn't it just a release of tension? I don't know. So I'm asking you, James. Yeah, I think it is just a release of tension, Tom, do you think. Or you know. Well, I have wrestler's leg syndrome, which is a bit different. So I'm often. Why do you shake your leg and not your arm? Or why do you. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, I mean, I think. I think it is a release of anxiety. Release of. Of tension. So if you're. If you're. Sometimes you do it when you're bored as well, but no. Okay, so why. Why the leg and not another limb will probably be to do with the. With the amount of blood and muscle. So it's the biggest thing you can sort of jiggle. True I think. But I know I'll put it on the board, but I just got a feeling it's something to do because when I. One of my kids has got. Does it as well and I do it. So we looked it up together and I think. I think it was something to do with that, but a bit like sticking your tongue out or it could just be concentration anyway. Yeah, no, we did, we did. That's just concentration. That's to sort of focus you on whatever the job is that you're doing. But I'll do that. Yeah. When you're nervous or tense, why do we shake our legs? It's a bit chicken and egg. If I say, oh, we shake our legs because we're tense and you say, why do we shake our legs when we're tense? I say, because you're tense. Yeah, I'll put it on the board, Tom. Thank you, mate. Matthew's at Heathrow. Matthew, question or answer? Well, hi, James. Just wanted to expand on the blood donation answer. You don't really do steward's inquiry after we've had a raliota. Well. Well, what it is? I mean, I think the answer is 33 years with the blood transfusion service, mate. Yeah, well, a week ago, I just went to try to save a life and I asked the question, can I donate my blood if I had a vaccination? Yes. And the answer is you've got to wait four weeks after you have a vaccination before you donate blood. I was looking to. That's because of the efficacy of the vaccination for you, I would imagine. Well, it was. I mean, I was just looking to donate my antibodies and, I mean, I've done the test and unfortunately my antibodies weren't high enough. And I was actually going to ask you, have you actually tried to donate your plasma to try to save the life? Have you had the virus? No. Oh, you should do it. I mean, I went to the place in Twickenham. It's just a normal blood donation center. I mean. I mean, within a couple of days, I got an appointment and I actually gave a sample because I didn't have the flu vaccination yet. Okay. Yeah. And within. Thanks for the heads up, mate. I shall definitely look into that. Thank you, Matthew. Mind how you go. 1240 is the time. Russell is in. I can never remember how to pronounce your hometown, Russell. It's Drogheda. Drogheda. Of course it is. Yeah. Question or answer? It could be anything. I have a question for you today. Carry on. And it's a bit of a grim one. Oh, what happened when an astronaut dies in space? What? Yeah. As in. As in, you know, the body is up there. Not so grim, but the body is up there. And they can't just call a funeral director to come along and. No, I know. So what is the procedure? And does astronauts. You just bring it home, wouldn't you? Yeah, but when? At the end of the mission. I don't think you'd come home, especially. Unless. Unless the death of the. Unless the astronaut was essential to the mission. Unless the death meant that they couldn't do it. But there have been deaths in space. So, oddly, this is an answerable question, so I'm definitely not going to go definitive, but I presume they just have to keep it somewhere until it is time to come home. A bit like on an airplane, maybe. Yeah, exactly. Exactly like on an airplane. Oh. I mean, I don't see what else they could do. You wouldn't. Unless you particularly. You wouldn't be able to just sling them out a window, would you? Well, that's what my partner kept telling me, which is. Launched them into spade. Well, maybe. Yeah, well, he kept saying this. Very morbid. It's a very morbid question, Ross. It's a very morbid question. I know, and I'm sorry for bringing the mood down, but, you know, it's something that's been playing on my mind for a while, so. Fair enough. I don't know why you're not planning on going to space anytime soon. It's not. There's no personal investment in this question. Well, no, I can't really get out of Drada. What's the lockdown? Isn't it? Let alone Mars. You can't get into Dublin, never mind Mars. Or the moon. Or the moon. I shall find out for you. Russell, what happens when an astronaut dies in space? 1242 is the time. And what would happen if you went into a bank and asked for the 20 pound sterling that your banknote promises to pay the bearer? Why is curry sauce a staple of british fish and chip shops? We've done the sun. Why does corned beef and spam and a couple of other meat products come in tins that are different from every other tin that food comes in. And what would happen if an astronaut died in space? I'm sure there's one I've missed as well, but I'll double it with you in a moment. Scott's in Carlisle. Scott, question or answer? Hi. I've got an answer. Carry on, Scott. Okay, if you went into the bank with a pound 20 note and asked them to exchange it, you would get nothing in return. Had that been before 1931, however, the bank would have been obliged to swap it for sterling silver. The problem is that at that time, we used to run on something called the gold standard. So every pound, every bill was an actual claim check on some gold or some valuable metal in a vault somewhere. We abandoned that in 31. In 1931, was it? That's right, yeah. And moved to something called the Bretton woods system, which pinned it to the american dollar. And then we abandoned that in 1973, and we have what's called a fire currency now, which means that the only reason it has any value is because we all agree it does and nothing more. Yeah, that is fascinating, isn't it? What are your qualifications? Nothing, other than I had to research that for a speech. That's it, really. But how do you remember the years? Just because you've got that kind of memory? Yeah, well, yeah, I had to make the speech about three or four times. So was it a competition? It was. It was for a speaker's club competition? Well, for grown ups. For people who've left school. Yeah, that's right. Is it? That's really. I didn't know that was a thing. I mean, I used to love that when I was a kid doing. Speaking competitions and researching the speeches and doing all that stuff. I had no idea that it was. Because, again, one of my daughters is very keen to get involved and her school, thankfully, do it, but I didn't know there was a grown up stuff. Who runs it? Is it called the Speakers Club? It's the association of Public Speakers in England. And really, it's. They almost have a syllabus that you work to and really just to help you become a better public speaker. Are you a good public speaker? Are you too modest to answer that question? I'm not particularly good, but I can get by if I need to. Did you do it because you wanted to increase your confidence in front of an audience, or did you do it because you're a massive show off, like me? I definitely wanted to become more confident as a speaker. That's why I did it. That's a really, really lovely answer, and really fascinating as well. So, our friend in. Where was he? Ronald was up in. Somewhere in Scotland. Susan was in Inverness. Anyway, Ronald, stay where you are, mate. Have some lunch. Don't go down the bank. You'll be wasting your time. And a round of applause for Scott, please. The tables in full. Kirk, of course, he was. 1245 mystery hour. With James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1249 Grampeski. Argentina. Eh? I've just had a look at the economic projections of the OECD. Or is it actually retrospective judgment? The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has done its economic forecast and, I mean, Argentina is the worst performing leading economy in the world. And Boris Johnson's Brexit Britain only comes in second. And we could really have been world beating on that. We could have had the worst economic projections in the civilized world, in the industrialized world. But Argentina have pipped us to the post. Outrageous. Back to Mystria. Peter is in Ilford. Peter, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Peter. Argentinian corned beef. Clever. Yeah, sorry. Comes in a strange shaped tin so that you can slice the stuff when you finally get it out of the tin. That was it. Same with spam. If you had a straight sided tin, it wouldn't slide out. You'd have to get it out with a spoon, with a fork or a knife or a spoon, but it wouldn't slide out. And that means that your corned beef would look like cat food. Yes, because the only difference between. The only visual difference between corned beef and cat food is probably the fact that corned beef is sliced and cat food is scooped. So that is. That's it. You're right. And we put it in sandwiches. Or in the case of spam, you couldn't make a fritter if you had to get it out of the tin with a spoon, could you? It does look disgusting when it's all scribbled up. It does. I haven't had corned beef for a while. Do you. Do you still enjoy? Do you still partake? Peter? I grew up on corned beef. I did too, but I haven't had any for years. Have you? No. No. But in there lies a tail. We had an extra trick. If you pierce the small end of the tin, that releases the vacuum even easier and lets air in at the back. So it just pops out onto a plate like a. Like a rat upper drain pipe. It just slides out smooth. As your line qualifications. I used to eat a lot of corned beef and. Oh, and yes, you had it on years ago. I know, I know. And I forgot. Thank you for holding it open for me. I got close when I said it's so that it can come out in a block, which is actually kind of true. But then, of course, the question would be, why does it. Why is it important that it could come out in a block and that is where you come in with your definitive answer. You can slice it. So you can slice it. A round of applause for Peter, please. Very nicely played, sir. Excellent. And, of course, I should have mentioned at the outset, that would be, given the state of my memory these days, you are perfectly entitled to cite previous mystery hour answers as your qualifications for providing a current mystery answer. Pete. Synchron. Pete, question or answer? Stewart's inquiry, I'm afraid. Oh, my days. What is it? The pound 20 note one. Go on. The response seemed largely correct in most aspects, but he said that you get nothing for the 20 pound note on a pedantic technicality. That promise is a promise to exchange it for another 20 pound note. So you could. So you. So you could swap it. Swap a manky old one for a new one, just for purposes. Yes. Yeah. But you're not going to get sterling, are you? That so? Sterling is pound sterling is the currency. Oh, no, I see what you mean. I like the. Did you. What did you say? Pedantic technicality? Yeah, I think we should have a pedantic technicality hour before Christmas. Pedantic technicalities all round. So I like this. Qualifications make a lot of listeners very, very angry. Yeah, you could do. Should be doing Brexit. What are your qualifications? Oh, I read it in one of Tim Harford's economic books. I like reading and I really hate being wrong. So if you've got any kind of further advice on that, that'd be appreciated. We'd have a little think. A book about not being wrong. Yeah, I've got nothing, mate. Oh, okay. I'll have to do some more research. Yeah. I mean, just maybe just Google how not to be wrong. See what comes up. They're definitely a book of that title by a prominent american mathematician. But that's not really the kind of thing you're after, is it? It's more. More of a mindset. How could you change your whole mindset about. About being sort of stubbornness? Round of applause for Pete. And if he's got any advice for Pete on a book he could read, which would help him not to be wrong, then I'm sure he'll be very grateful. 1253 is the time. Martin's in Exeter. Martin, question or answer? It's the correction, actually, to the show. We call them pedantic technicalities. Now, Martin, do keep up. No, no, no. Don't you call me pedantic, pal. What have you got? That's why tune in corn beef tins. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. They are actually square because they take up less room on a pallet. And they were initially tinned for the military so they could have protein, went out on operations. They can tear the top off the tin with the key provided and use the tin as a container to eat the meal. And. Yeah, that's it. That's why they're sealed up, because they're stronger and they're more reliable and you pack more in a smaller space because tins take up more space. Where did you learn that? General knowledge quiz, and it wasn't my answer years ago. And somehow it just sticks with you when you're trying to get the top of the. Because then the question would become, why would you? Why would they still do it? Now? I assume it's for camping, or it's just something that they are stronger so they don't burst open. Now, I get that bit. But the slicing answer is a thing of beauty, isn't it? It is a thing of beauty as well, because no one else wants mushy corn beef. Could you imagine having spam off a spoon? But apparently he was for the military originally. I'm going to give you a round of applause, thank you very much. Largely because you got such a deep voice and I feel it should be properly, properly rewarded on the program, but also because your answer is excellent. What haven't we had? We haven't had the moths thing. I'm gonna have a go at that if nobody else does. By home time. The wiggling of the legs and the curry sauce in the fish and chip shops and the astronaut in space. The dead astronaut. Joe's in Heathfield. Joe, question or answer? I've got an answer. Carry on. This is also the first time I've ever been on the radio, so I'm a bit nervous. Same here. My legs are actually. Same here. I've never done this before either. That's incredible. What have you got for me? So, the shake your legs thing. So essentially, it's part of the fight, flight or freeze response. So when you are feeling nervous, various things happen in your body. So adrenaline gets pumped around your system, cortisol, stress hormones and all of those are preparing you to respond to the threat. So if you, for example, are being chased by safety tiger, you need to run. So you need all of that pumping through your system to be able to run away. So the fact is those people are sat there watching whatever it was they said they were watching. Formula one, actually. It was a grand prix, wasn't it? Perfect sense, wiggling. So it's like keeping the engine running. Yeah, exactly. Beautiful answer. Qualifications? I'm a counsellor, therapist. I work with young people and adults with things like anxiety, depression. So you've just learnt it in the course of. Yes, I've learned it. It's part of my training, yeah. That is an absolutely brilliant answer. How did you find your radio debut? How did I find it? Well, it doesn't really feel like being on the radio because I feel like I'm just chatting to you on the phone. Well, you are. It's a bit strange. I don't think there's anyone listening, Joe, we haven't had radio since last January. I probably. I've hemorrhaged audiences where there'll be no one tuning in. It's just me and you now. Even. Even the producers just chatting among themselves, they don't even. They don't listen to the program anymore. It's just. Just you and me. So there's nothing to be nervous about. Excellent. So you can stop shaking your leg now. I can, yeah. Round of applause. Thank you, Jay. Lovely stuff. Great work you do as well. Thank you. Neil's in Wandsworth. Neil, question or answer? There's an answer, James. Carry on, Neil. Curry sauce. Carry on. It went to Hong Kong with indian troops and indian policemen that were serving in Hong Kong over many, many years. Yeah. And the Chinese in Hong Kong adopted the curry sauce as like a staple in their diet, also shared it with Singapore. So it's very prominent in Singapore too. So hang on, how did it get. It got there from here? No, it got there from India. Yes. Indian troops? Yes. Okay. Yes. And then when the Hong Kong restaurateurs opened up and boomed in England, then it came back with them. That's what I thought. I didn't know the full history of it, but it seemed to me to be the chinese owned fish and chip shops that would have popularized it. Exactly. Hong Kong chinese curry sauce that's very popular in Asia is a malaysian curry sauce which is much milder than an indian curry sauce. Amazing piece of work. Qualifications. I lived in Hong Kong. Round of applause. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. I'm going to have a go at the moths question because we're so short of time, I think. And the answer that I am receiving from a lot of people that tallies with my own personal experience is that the hole is not caused by moths. The one that is around the belly button era. Era area is caused by friction. So your button on your jeans, for example, rubbing from the other side or where you put your safety belt on in the car crosses over the point and causes friction between the button or the buckle, if you like. And the jumper said, that's why those holes are there and they're not caused by moths, which means that Tracy in Manchester was worried about her hygiene issues, completely unbuffed. She might be all right, old stinky madam, but it is not evidenced by the holes in her jumpers. And that concludes this week's mystery. That's it for another, a day, another week, actually. I imagine. Nawaz will be with you tomorrow. I'm having a, I beg your pardon. David Lammy will be with you tomorrow. I'm having a richly, you can see I'm really in the loop around here. Didn't even know Sadiq Khan was coming on the program today until I got into work. But David Lammy will be with you at 10:00 tomorrow morning, and I will be back with you on Monday. Up next, Sheila Fogarty, correct. Phew. Finally, I got one right. Eeny, meenie miney, Sheila. Thank you. Thanks very much.