Why do wet-suits do up at the back?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Do you know, I'm always amused by the things that prompt you to get in touch with the program, especially people who don't normally get in touch with the program. This week it was when I invited you to come up with names for the fictional cartoon syringe. I was going to suggest that we put on stickers instead of the COVID status certificate that we were discussing earlier this week. I got absolutely bombarded with suggestions from vaccine McVacs face right through to what was it? What was the search? I can't even remember. Some of them very funny, some of them appalling. Maxine, that was quite a good. Maxine, the vaccine, that's quite a good one. What was mine called? Nobby McNeedle or something like that. I can't remember. And that got millions of responses today. If I had a pound for everyone who'd sent in the word scumbag college for the program in the last half an hour, well, I'd have quite a lot of pounds. That, of course, was the name of the mythical institution attended by the young ones. The young ones as in that absolutely seminal comedy program. Don't worry, I'm not doing a phone in on whether or not you found it funny. The seminal comedy program the young ones when they appeared on university challenge. But it is now mystery hour and it is five minutes after twelve and it is your weekly opportunity to get an answer to a question that has had you befuddled and puzzled for the longest time. Pretty much anything goes. I'm minded not to do a big introduction. You should really know how it works by now because we churned very early on this churn being the word that is used to describe my call to arms that prompts you to ring in to this radio program on a level that is not replicated anywhere else. Probably not in the world actually, but certainly not in the country because I did it early. We've actually got some phone lines free now six minutes after twelve, which is very rarely the case that the chaff has been sorted from the wheat. And if you've been adjudged to be chaff, please don't at me. The management's decision is final, but it means that if you ring in there you might get through. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. The questions, of course, depend upon what you want answering. So we could do a who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whither, a wherefore, or even the occasional whence. And someone else listening will know the answer to the question and they will ring in with it. If your qualifications for answering the question are exemplary are almost unbelievably appropriate, then you will receive the finest accolade that british radio can offer. And we've had one in this week already. I always have a little memo to myself on Thursdays. Remember to give out Ray Liottas in times of non mystery hour conversations. And I always forget, but we had one this week, I think we were doing a phone in about testing in schools and we took a call from someone who is running a testing centre in schools and was working on it as we spoke. And that's what I mean by being beautifully qualified to contribute to whatever conversation that we are having. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Declan. Is in. Well in. Declan. Question or answer? Hello. Hello, Declan. Question or answer? Question. Yep. What's all these conspiracies regarding five g and that they're bad for our health? Is there any. Is there any truth behind that? No. No. Close book. Thank you. Steve's in Colchester. Steve, question or answer? That's question, sir. Carry on. Steve. Yeah. Why specifically is anything to do with the DVLA situated in Wales? Specifically? Why not? Why specifically? Yeah, but why specifically not? Why wouldn't it be? But, you know, whose idea was that? What have you got against Wales? I've got nothing against Wales. So, I mean, where are the passport officers? Are they still in Liverpool? I don't know. There's one in Croydon. But the base, where did you send it to? Oh, I think I went to petty France a long time ago. Well, you might as well know. Why is the passport office in Petit France? I don't understand the question. Well, the DVN eight has always been in Swansea. The Royal Mint is in Wales. The Royal Mint is in Wales as well. Oh, you want the origins. Why did it. Okay. Well, yeah, that's okay. Yeah, okay, if you want to be pedantic about. I'm not being pedantic. Remember, I'm in charge. It'd be a yellow card if you carry on like that. I'm not being pedantic. I'm trying to understand your curiosity. Because it's a bit like saying why is. I mean. I mean, most of these massive institutions are more likely to be in capital cities or in London, most obviously, maybe Edinburgh, but Liverpool, Manchester, they've got some big things. Why is the. There you go. Why is the museum of Film and Television in Bradford. Yeah. Do you see what. I'm just confused, but, you know, the fact that it's just Swansea, anything to do with, like, the DVLA is in Swansea. I'm just wondering. So there might be a reason why, like, whoever. Yeah, all right, I'll put it on the board. Yeah, yeah. I mean, you know, somebody must have been. We're moving to Wales. Everyone okay? Yeah, all right. No, I mean, yeah, I'm just. I'm just curious about your curiosity. I think that's quite healthy, isn't it? I just. I'm actually becoming more curious about my own curiosity, James, to be honest, I'm not surprised. So when did this question first appear in your consciousness? It actually came up last week, but unfortunately I couldn't get through. So busy. No, I'm not going to apologize for that. You know, I'd complain if I wasn't, but there you go. Right. Why is the DVLA all. Why is it all going on in Swansea, then? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need, if you can answer that question. Shaun's in maidenhead. Sean, question or answer? James? It's a question. Yes, it's a wetsuit question. I wondered why most, almost all wetsuits do up at the back. Give him a round of applause. I love that question. Thank you. No, I do. Should we work it out together or should we just leave it up for. I'll tell you something, I went and bought one best purchase I've ever made last summer. They are a real nuisance to do up and undo, so almost impossible, presumably, to put it on solo. No, you've got a lengthy. You've got a lengthy. Got a very long toggle. Right. But let me tell you, I'm the middle aged guy. You should have said, sean. I said, you got a very long toggle. You should have said, thank you very much. Can we get back to the wetsuits, please, James? It was buttocks last time I rang in and now it's pronounced. But it's pronounced buttocks on this program. So anyway, you can do it up yourself by dint of the very long toggle, but you. It's really hard. You almost dislocate your arm when you're doing it. Right. And I just wondered why, because surely doing up from the front would make much more sense. And also, don't forget where people wear wetsuits, they often wear oxygen tanks and they're on the back. They are. So why would you. Well, you're not going to try to take your wetsuit off before you've taken your oxygen. I presume that the answer. Just for the record, I'm not going to give myself a round of applause for this, but I presume that the answer is that if it did up the front, it would actually be more likely to undo itself by dint of the way that we move our bodies. Do you know what? I've never heard silence convey such abject lack of being impressed as powerfully as your silence. Just. I'll tell you what, I'll give you a maybe. Yeah, I thought we better give you the money myself. Nicking all my catchphrases today. All right, why do wetsuits do up at the back? And I've probably begun to get the correct answer on that because, I mean, it's occam's razor, isn't it? You eliminate. Well, that's Sherlock Holmes, actually. You eliminate the impossible. Whatever you're left with, however improbable, must be the truth. Or there might be something staring us in the face on this one. Why dirt wetsuits do up at the back? And what was the other one, Keith? Oh, and why is the DVLA in Swansea? I haven't got any paper today. It's also COVID friendly. Everything gets cleaned up and removed. So I'm gonna have to commit this all to memory, or just write it in the margins of the newspaper that I've got in front of me or get Keith to remind me every ten minutes. But we are. Or I. After nearly a decade and a half, or possibly even a decade and a half, of doing this job, I'm increasingly conscious of how many of you can hear what is supposedly surreptitiously being said in my ear. Whether it's because my colleagues have foghorn voices, or whether it's because the volume on my headphones is too high, or whether it's because the microphone is too close to the headphone, I do not know. But none of those qualify for mystery hour. Sam's in Chelsea. Sam. Question or answer? It's Sarah. Well, I need glasses now as well as I'm going deaf and I'm losing my eyesight live on the radios. Well, at least we're all getting old together. That's all right. No worries. Question or answer, Sara. It's a question. Carry on. Okay, so how comes that when you make Yorkshire puddings, as I do every Sunday for roast? Yes, plain flour makes the Yorkshire puddings rise, but if you use self raising flour, they come out like little dumplings, do they? I thought your question was silly. I get a little clue on the screen as to what you're likely to say and I was gonna go, it's eggs, innit? But you've tried making it with self raising flour with eggs, and they don't rise. Yeah. So a couple of weeks ago, I ran out of plain flour. So I thought, you know, you self raising flour. Yeah. Gonna do the same thing. And they came out like little scones. They were like solid little dumplings. And you use the recipe, what do you do? Three to 4oz of flour, one egg, half a pint of milk or what's your recipe? Something like that? I use. Yeah, something like that. Eggs, flour and milk. And you used identical ingredients? All you did was swap plain flour for self raising flour. And you put little dumplings. Yes. No air in them at all? No, exactly the same method. Whisk them up. Hot oil. Well, the problem I've got, and by the way, you should use dripping if you've got it. Or lard. Anything that gets even hotter than don't use olive oil. The hotter. No, no, I digress slightly, but I can bore for England on Yorkshire puddings, as you're beginning to discover cover. Sarah, my son loves them, but this is the only evidence we've got that self raising flour creates dumplings. We don't have a control or any peer reviewed experimentation. We've just got your single anecdotal experience. Yeah. And obviously I thought self raising, I thought, well, that'd be fine, that will make them rise. But no, it did the opposite. And there must be a reason, otherwise we'd always be making them with self raising. There we go. I'm just curious as to why. Well, I am now, you know you never wear a wetsuit, do you, when you're making Yorkshire puddings, by any chance? No, but I did hear that question and I've worn a wetsuit a few times. Not when I'm making Yorkshire puddings diving. And it's always got like a really long, long zip on it. So you can grab it up the back. Yeah, but why does it zip up the back? I have no idea. I'll be waiting for the answer. So if anyone can knit all of these together, they'll get three Rayleigh out. You ring in while wearing a wetsuit and making Yorkshire puddings and driving. It's 1215. This is LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 18 minutes after twelve. You're right, actually. If you are a chef living in Swansea and currently wearing a wetsuit, then you could go tri topical. No one's ever gone tri topical before. On this program, you join us in the midst of mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. But here it is. Why is all the DVLA Gubbins based in Swansea? Why do wetsuits zip up the back? We've got three different answers from my crack team today. My answer, which I can't remember, Keith's answer, which I think is going to be closest to a winner, and Ava's answer, which was quite strong but a little bit sexist, actually, and I shall share them all with you shortly. John's in Beckenham. John, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on. John. Yeah, what it is, I'm sometimes watching the programs late at night and the little man comes up in the corner or woman comes up in the corner and does the sign language. I'm wondering who decides when that man comes up or woman comes up on the tv, because they might only pop up for two minutes or three minutes and disappear again. It's a nice question, actually. And which shows get it? And I mean, it's a money issue, isn't it? You generally only get it on the BBC, don't you? Is it? Or do you get it on commercial as well? No, you get commercial as well. Do you? Quite often in channel four, it seems to pop up. Yeah, that'd be right. How do they decide which programs get signed and which programs don't? It's a really nice question that actually. I'll hopefully get you an answer if you know the answer to this or any of the questions that are being asked. Or indeed, if you have an answer of your own. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Steve is in Hamelhamstead. Steve, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Steve. It's the wetsuit question. Why do they zip up the back? Steve? I've been surfing since I was ten and I'm 65 now, and wetsuits used to all zip up the front and they were like a little jacket that you put over and just zipped up the front. They were horrendously uncomfortable when you're surfed in them. And the zip is the easiest way for water to get in and out. So as the material became more stretchy, you were able to get in and out of the wetsuit with a really short zip up. The back. And that makes the wetsuit warmer and more comfortable when you're lying on the board and pedaling. Well, I think you're right. But I do wonder whether it is the. It's because surfing has become more popular as well. So, whereas once you would only really have worn a wetsuit for scuba diving. This doesn't really work, does it, Steve? No. No. Right. They don't have to laugh at me on my own show. This is 3 hours a day. I get. I've got two children at home, mate. I get laughed at for the other 21 hours in any given day, the 3 hours that I'm here. Even Keith and Ava sometimes have to hide their mouths before that. I mean, it's really uncomfortable for obvious reasons, because when you're trying to get up on your board, you're lying on your front, so that's going to chafe like nobody's business. Yeah. And the wetsuit, the zip actually is the worst place for letting water. So the shorter the zip, the better the wetsuit. Shorter the zip, the better the wetsuit. You can only have a really short zip as the material became more stretchy, which it is now. So now you can have a really short zip on the back. Qualifications? I'm just. I'm the surfer. I've been surfing since I was ten. So you've observed. You have personally observed the evolution of the wetsuit? I have indeed. Firsthand. I had a wetsuit. I made myself out of a kit. That was horrendous. Good grief. Really? Yeah. That's our commitment. Now you can be the judge. Give him a round of applause. Don't go away. Do you want to know what Ava's suggestion was, which I found mildly sexist? She said it was because of chest hair. No, no, I loved it. No, I said, can we. Can we keep that noise? Because I might use that again, actually, when having discussions with my producer. Just do that again. That kind of nah, nah, nah. Give him another round of applause. Keith was right on that. What was my theory? Oh, I don't know. It was complicated. Well, no, I think mine was to do with the front as well. No. All right. Anyway, Keith wins, but Steve's the real winner. Actually, we're all winners. 23 minutes after twelve is the time RJ is in Croydon. RJ, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on, RJ. So why is it that my washing machine has a little window? I can see what's going on inside it, but my dishwasher and my tumble dryer don't. I know this. It's actually quite obvious. In fact, I know it's obvious because it only occurred to me when you asked the question, what would happen if you opened your dishwasher mid cycle? It just stops. Yeah. What would happen if you opened your washing machine mid cycle? Don't know. I haven't tried it, but I'm guessing it'll get my floor wet. Ergo, you need a window on your washing machine, but you don't need one on your dishwasher. Round of applause for me. Two out of two. Steve is in Minster on the Isle of Sheppey. I don't know whether the lights are different in here today or whether I need some glasses. It might. Crikey. And I nearly had you in Munster, then. Yeah, not minster, Munster. But you're definitely in minster. Question or answer? John. John. Who's John? I'm Steve. I know you are. That was a joke about how bad my eyesight is. Oh, I see. If you've got to explain the joke, you had to be there, Steve. Carry on. Question or answer? It's a question. Please. It's a moral question, so bear with me. Why is it you fill your car up at the pump in liters, but your fuel consumption is miles per gallon? Surely it makes it unnecessarily confusing. So boring, man. I know, but I want to know. The idea of this hour, isn't it? No. The idea of this hour is that motoring questions have been banned since 1963. It is good. Secretly, in the back of your mind, you are confused by it yourself, aren't you? So, I mean. Yeah, but where does the miles per gallon come from? You mean on the specs when you're buying a car? That kind of thing? Yeah. So? Well, the fuel consumption is always in miles per gallon, but you fill up in liters at the pump. So why is either. Why do you not fill up in gallons or fuel consumption in liters? Listen, I'm not going to fall out with you, but, man, that's boring. And I also allowed the DVLA question. Is there some sort of coup underway on the program that I haven't actually noticed? There's a sort of petrol head, Jeremy Clarkson will be doing my holiday cover. Before we know it, we're all hiding around the corner. Steve, you're on. Why do we sell petrol in litres, but record or measure fuel consumption in miles? Liters per gallon. Miles per liters. Gallons and liters, not miles. So it's gallons versus liters. Sorry, no. Yeah. Getting my imperials and my metrics. So we sell it in liters but we measure it in gallons. Why? Zero. 345-606-0973 Peter is in Bedale. Hello, Peter. Question or answer? Question so much as a political history question. Carry on. The DVLA going to Swansea is like lots of other agencies at the time would have, you know, where is the agency? Not the ministers? Yes, they were pushed out into places where heavy industry. Late sixties, early seventies, heavy industry was shrinking. There was a lot of joblessness and it was a means by which government could post high quality jobs into areas that were changing rapidly because heavy industry was going. Which is the core answer? The reason I know is I took a very prurient interest in vehicle records and driving licenses at that time. Why? Because I was a young police at the time. So you'd be checking out. Yeah. So when I first started in the police, you used to have to go to the county hall and literally fish out somebody's vehicle record or you went to the local town hall to change your driving license or your vehicle license over. All of that got centralized. The political imperative was to get all of those really high quality jobs into somewhere like Swansea. That's a wonderful answer and I really like it. And in fact, I think it has a very topical resonance as well because wasn't there an announcement this week that they were going to open a new branch of one of the major departments in Wolverhampton? Treasury. Yes. The treasury is likely to go up to somewhere in the north. And Darlington looks like a good shout for it. That's great. That perfectly answered. Round of applause. Thank you, sir. How many is that now keeping count? I don't, but I love this. I love the show. Thank you, Peter. Wayne and Basildon. Keeps count. I'm not aware of anyone else that's does 27 minutes after twelve is the time. Another. Peter. This one's in Bishop's. Thought for question or answer? Question. James, carry on. I'm in the kitchen and I'm waiting for the saucepan to boil. To boil the potatoes. And this is why we win the awards. This is this. We are literally. I've got someone online too. Is watching paint dry? No, no, this is much more exciting than that. On the other side of the kitchen, I'll board the kettle for a cup of coffee. Yeah. And it occurred to me that I could have put the boiling water from the kettle into the saucepan and saved myself some time. Yeah, and some money. But then I was thinking, well, which is the more efficient? And that's really my question. The kettle or the pan? Yeah, it's the kettle. Why? Because it's. The water's in immediate contact with the element and it's got a lid on it. So you're going to have less on the saucepan as well. Yeah, but it's not in immediate. The water's not touching the element. What are your qualifications, James? Elementary, my dear Watson. I'm not sure I accept your explanation. Well, you can't, can you? Because I haven't got any qualifications at all. But it does make sense, you've got to be honest. Well, it's quicker drawn to it. It is quicker. If it's quicker, it's cheaper, but it depends. Gas? Electricity? Well, look, all things being equal. Yeah, I'm using electricity. What is more efficient, your kettle. Water in a pan with a lid on, or water in a kettle? Yes, all right. I like that. What you could. What are you boiling it for? Several thousand times a year, I would estimate. Well, certainly several hundred. What are you boiling it for now? Potatoes? Well, there's eggs, there's potatoes, there's all kinds of different things. Well, I know that you. I'm not asking what foodstuffs can you boil, but, I mean, I'm desperate for material, Peter, some days, but never between twelve and one on a Thursday. Give me. We'll do a phone in on this tomorrow. Give me a ring. What have you boiled lately? Yes, please. We'll have an hour on that. Yeah. No, you're all right, then. Thank you. So, what's more efficient, the kettle or the pan? What came first, the chicken or the. That's not a question. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can answer that. I've done the washing machines and even the washing machines. Who decides which programs get sign language accompaniments? Why do Yorkshire puddings not rise if you use self raising flour? This is actually really good. It's almost. I'll tell you what, this is in contention for being vintage. Vintage mystery hour. And time now for the very latest news headlines with Tim Humphrey. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three. 4560-609-7326 minutes to one is the time. And I like these questions this week. Why do we sell fuel in liters, but measure its efficiency in gallons, miles per gallon? What's more efficient if you're boiling a litre of water, or a pint of water, or even a gallon of water, a kettle or a pan? Who decides which programs get a sign language accompaniment and why? And I think this is a universal experience it's not confined simply to the questioner, why do Yorkshire puddings not rise if you use self raising flour? There's some lovely questions here. Pausing, Glasgow. Paul, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. Paul, is the wetsuit one? Just expand on that a little. Expand away. Yes. So body mechanics means that whenever we move, the back will expand and the front will contract as you bring your arms in, etcetera. And the only part of our wetsuit that doesn't expand or contract is the zip. So by putting it on the back, where the material expands further, it will only get closer. And if we put it on the front, that material contracts. The zip doesn't, meaning the seal is a little bit less efficient. That's not a million miles away from what I said, actually. So I'm clawing back a modicum of credibility, albeit that, as you say, you're expanding on the answer, you're not challenging the answer. There's a variety of reasons. In other words, why having the zip on the back is optimal. Correct. Yes. What are your qualifications? 18 years as a scuba diver and a bit of a neoprene nerd. Is that a thing or did you just invent it? Is that like being a Lycra lout? You're a neoprene nerd. I've just invented it there. It's my mammal. Get down to it. Get that trademark sharpies. Round of applause for Paul. Thank you. Thank you. I tell you about the last time I went surfing, but I'm completely confident that no one would believe me, so I won't. Rick's in Wigan. Rick, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Hello, Rick. I've got an answer to the question about mpg on mass per gallon and kilometers per 100 litres. Go on. It's historic. We used to measure everything imperial in gallons, and the figures have stayed stuck, really. It's quite weird to look at the metric equivalents. So it is just tradition. I mean, it goes the other way. It's purely tradition. So we went metric on the measurements for selling stuff, but we haven't gone metric on the measurements for measuring stuff. Yeah, it was a bit like buying eight foot of two by two and that became eight foot of 50 by 50. Is it 50 by 52? B two. That'll do. Qualifications. 50 years of driving, membership of the IAM and qualifications in science and education. Flipping it. I mean, you've covered your bases there, Rick. I couldn't even begin to deny you this. Round of applause. Oh, thank you. No, thank you. I like that. A lot. And, I mean, it is possibly the question. The answer I would have guessed at. But with that array of qualifications, we can actually confidently go definitive, because it would always. When we sold it in gallons, it was miles per gallon. Then we started selling it in liters and we didn't change miles per gallon. I am, for those of you who are not as committed to matters motoring as I am is, of course, the Institute of Advanced motorists. 1237 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. What's left? Kettles and pans. We've done the litres, the sign language and the Yorkshire puddings. Bridget is in Ashford. Bridget, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer. Carry on. So the sign language on television, that is to do with Ofcom. So ofcom have. Hang on a minute. You said, all hail. All hail the magna, all hail the magnificent ofcom and all who sail in her. Is there an organization in this country of more value than Ofcom? Bridget? It's a rhetorical question. I hope they're listening, James. So do I. So, yeah, they set targets to the broadcasters for all different accessibility, including subtitles and audio descriptions. And these targets are over ten years. So it's actually up to the broadcasters, not just BBC, Channel Four, and, I believe, ITV as well. Who? Yeah, they have a target to meet every year. A quota. Yes. A percentage of programs that have to be accompanied by sign language. So short. I mean, simply put, they're going to lean largely towards the most popular programs. Yeah, yeah, that's right. And often deaf people lack access to information, so they also try and choose programs that, you know, will convey information. Like the press briefings, the Downing street press briefings. Although that has been a contentious issue, because the interpreter is not in the room with our great prime minister. Why not? Well, as far as I understand, there has been a campaign and a court case, so I need to be careful. Okay, well, it's not a criminal case, so you'll be all right. I've got you. As far as I understand from the where is the interpreter? Campaign, you can hashtag and look for it. Downing street say there isn't enough room in the. Oh. With social distancing. With social distancing. Although this doesn't seem to be the case in Wales or Scotland. No, I've not leave that with you. I was going to say in other countries as well. I think I could probably take a fair guess at your answer to my next question, but I have to answer it anyway. Obviously, otherwise Ofcom will have a fit. What are your qualifications? I'm a british sign language interpreter. Do you do any tele stuff? No, but I've done some online conferences and things like that, but I don't do any telling that. No. So I love that sort of. You couldn't be better qualified than that. But I don't know how many of you there are. Roughly. How many british sign language interpreters are there, do you think? There are around 1000 in the whole country for a deaf population of much, much more than that. If they all decided to go to the doctor on the same day, we'd be in trouble. A thousand? In a country with a population of about 60 million? Yeah. Of which we don't know quite how many deaf people there are in the country, exactly. But it's. It's in excess of. I think it's in excess of 100,000. It's more than that. Anyway, no one can ever quite tell because of how you count it, but, yeah, I think I'm going to give you a Ray Liotta. Oh, you're joking. Not really. Yeah, but only on one condition. What's that? I have no way of checking this, so we're going to do it entirely on trust. All right. When I give you. When I give you a ray Liotta, you have to provide a sign language accompaniment. Okay. But you can't see me. I know. I'm trusting you. A video. I'm trusting you. I'm trusting you. All right. All right. Let's do it. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Bridget. Thank you. Thank you. I'm so honored. Lovely stuff. So am I. 1241 is the time. Luke is in Harwich. Luke, question or answer? I have an answer for you, Jane. Bring it on. It's about the Yorkshire pudding. So it's the main way that you rise a Yorkshire pudding is you need very large bubbles, and so the eggs help with that, and the gluten stretches around it. But in self raising flour, you have bicarbonate of soda, which produces lots of very little bubbles, far, far too many of them. And so, you know, a very spongy texture that cooks far too quickly and ends up as a lump. So that is why it works on cake. Self raising flavors. Yes, it works very well on cake, but not on New York shears, I'm afraid. And not as well on bread, either, actually, no. You need yeast to do that. It needs to be slow. Yeah. Can you stop sounding so glib and knowledgeable while I'm throwing in my tiny, tiny nuggets of understanding here. I'd like you to sound a little bit more impressed. In defense, I get a lot of things wrong. You and me both. And that. Did you know we went, this is about. God, I hope mum's listening today. In my family, you know, you have those stories from childhood that become part of the free mythology that we went over the road to mum's friend, and because mum's from Sheffield, they were having Sunday lunch, she said, we don't normally do Yorkshire puddings, but we've done them for you. And my sister and I used to love Yorkshire puddings, and for some reason, they were a treat at home. And when you consider what's in them, it shouldn't necessarily be a treat. I think it's just the faff, isn't it? And the amount of space they take up in the oven if you're doing a full roast. But mum's friend over the road in kiddie made Yorkshire puddings. I swear to you, mate, they were sponge cakes. They were absolutely rank. And we both got that look of Mum and Mum and dad. My sister and I both got that look off Mum and dad, which said, shut up, don't mention that. Eat it. And, oh, man, that must have been made. Looking back, they must have been made with self raising flour. Absolutely gross. What are your qualifications? I'm a chef, currently looking forward to the pandemic ending. Yeah, I bet you are. And do you have any, like, secrets with Yorkshire pudding? Yes. You get someone else to do them and then blame them if it goes wrong. It's like radio presenting. Thank you very much. No, thank you, Luke. There are all sorts of secrets if you're a massive Yorkshire pudding anorak, like I am. So mix the milk with water, reduce the thickness, even if you're using semi skimmed. I went through a period of using, and that's really interesting, what Luke's just said, because I went through a period of thinking it was really clever to use fizzy water, to use, like, mineral water instead of still water, but actually, looking back, it didn't make that much difference, or it didn't make any difference at all, which is why I stopped doing it. And that would be why. Because the bubbles that you get via bicarbonate soda are tiny and the bubbles that you've got in carbonated water are going to be comparatively tiny. Whereas when you heat up an egg and you've got air caught in an egg based mixture, that's going to be potentially a really big. I still don't quite understand why you wouldn't have both. So you could have big egg based bubbles and then have a spongy, unsatisfactory batter around the rest of the place. But it's possibly, possibly the case that I'm thinking too much about this. That's because I love Yorkshire pudding and we buy gluten free ones now as well. You get gluten free Yorkshire puddings that are surprisingly pleasant. 1245 is the time. More Yorkshire pudding based facts after this mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we still. Actually, we've done them all. Pot, kettle. What's more efficient when boiling water, the pot or the kettle? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. We ticked them all off. What we gonna do? Get a couple more questions on the board and then. And then kind of extemporize and improvise and just sort of do like jazz. No, Harry's in Liverpool. Harry, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I was wondering why the letter Q is always followed by the letter u, except with just for scrabble fans, Qi is a word, of course. Oh, I didn't know Q I was a word. I thought that was just. I'm pretty sure it is, isn't it? Or maybe have I imagined that was it Xi? Anyway, don't never play Scrabble with me. I'm a terrible cheat. It's French, isn't it? Is it French? It comes from the French. I don't know. That's why I'm asking you. No, I know. I don't know either. That's why I'm asking you. It's got something to do with. Imported from French. I wouldn't be surprised if there were no Q in Anglo Saxon English, so it comes post Norman. It's about the. Well, I don't know why I'm doing this, because you're not going to give me a round of applause and there's no way Keith's going to let me have one when I've just pulled it out of nowhere like that either. So, all right. Why does the letter Q almost never appear without being followed by the letter u? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. I'm told by my q I elf that Qi is indeed the single most played word in Scrabble tournaments. According to the North American Scrabble Players association. So it is a word which means I'm not a massive cheat at Scrabble, actually, because I always let myself have that one. If you like board games. And, yes, I am going to conclude this little riff with a plug. But we've discovered we've found quite a few during lockdown. And I know hopefully it's coming to an end sooner rather than later. And I should have told you this sooner. I know a lot of people have really enjoyed the Sherlock Holmes board game that I recommended last year. We've also found a much funnier, sillier one called Chameleon. I don't know if you're a fan of such things. There's one called Chameleon that we've had a great deal of fun with. And later this year, I'm delighted to tell you that you'll be able to play mystery hour in the comfort of your own home. When James O'Brien's mystery hour hits all good game and bookshops. That's absolutely happening. The biggest mystery of all will be, how on earth does he look so young in that photograph on the box? I think for many of us. But you don't win any prizes for answering that question. Why does you always follow Q zero? 345-606-0973 Alison's in Wandsworth. Alison, question or answer? Hi, James. This is a question from my son Henry, who's gone off too shy to talk on the phone. The question is, how important do you have to be to be assassinated rather than murdered? I think it's. Is it not political? Do we say. We say John Lennon was assassinated, do we? Yes, he was. So if you're targeted because of your role in public life, you're assassinated. So I don't know that there is a criteria of importance. It's simply. But Joe. Joe Cox was murdered. I would say she was assassinated. I would agree from your definition. But what. All the news reports we talk about, we hear murder. I always say assassinated on this, but then again, I always say white supremacist terrorist, which some people are also a little bit shy about being honest about for reasons that I honestly can't even begin to understand. So, okay. I mean, if there's an official answer to that, then we'll hopefully get it on in the next five minutes of slightly more. James, how old is Henry? He's 14. Yeah, that's all right. Can I ask the steward's inquiry? You can't open a washing machine mid cycle. The door locks until the end of the cycle, so that would negate your. These days you can with your newfangled washing machines. But back when I were a lad you didn't have locks on washing machine doors. Okay. I never drew a ladder. What about malfunctions then? No, this is the clip. I've had to. I've had to buy them from espares before. And you can. It's a little clip that lifts when the machine cycles ended. It's actually a minute after the end of the day. But you need to be able to see inside the washing machine because it could either still be spinning or it could be full of water, which is simply not true with dishwashers. But you can't open a washing machine while it's still doing all of those things. You can if it's malfunctioned. Fair enough. Don't sigh at me like that, Alison. Try and get you an answer to your question about assassinations. Zero. 345-606-0973 appropriately enough. Peter is in Lifton in Devon. Peter. Question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on. Peter. So it's funny enough to the washing machine. It's almost like someone's producing this. So the simple answer. Yeah. Is so you can see what's going on inside. Thank you. Shouldn't have let her go. Get her back quick. No, don't. That'd be weird. So you. If you can see inside, you can see if there are any faults with the. With the door lock opening. So actually the steward's inquiry, albeit that she wasn't supposed to have it because she got in on a different question, was correct in that the door theoretically should stay locked until it's safe to open, but the window is there in case something's gone wrong. Yeah, I believe as well. I heard from an instructor that also it's to give people something to look at when they're bored and they don't want to watch tv. But a press which will keep the door locked if there's water pressed in the drum. And also by seeing in the drum you can see if there's water or if there's anything in there that's causing an issue or anything that might need a repair. That's. That's strong. What are your qualifications? I fix washing machines and dishwashers for a living. I've got an e twelve on my Bosch. I think it's to do with limescale. Lime scale buildup would affect your heat. Possibly. I've got an e twelve error code on my bosch. This is strong radio this, Keith. Let's start with tapes, mate. We're sending this one in for the award ceremonies. An e twelve. Looked it up and it says, I've got too much limescale. Then just the limescale cleaner. Or, I mean, I just say to overuse bicarbonate of soda and lemon juice. Yeah. In a glass. So put it on a cycle with the light bicarbonate and the lemon juice in a glass on the top shelf or something like that. Yeah, just give it. Give it clean. If you've got glass, generally scratches, you're going to get calcium built in scratches. So it's just something that would negate calcium, really. So a slightly acidic thing. Vinegar. Could use vinegar to do it. Could I, white vinegar? You could, but your machine smell like a chip shop. What's not to like? Lemon juice is the best bet. The round of applause for Peter. Great answer. I love that. And also kind of endorsed my answer to the stewards inquiry, which is always pleasant. Assassinations. What's the qualification for being assassinated as opposed to simply murdered? Zero. 345-606-0973 and why does the letter you almost always follow Q? Brilliant answer here. Someone has said QAnon. James, the Q isn't followed by a U. QAnon doesn't follow. No, I know. QAnon is followed by racist idiots. Jonathan's in Littlehampton. Jonathan, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Hello. Sorry, I'm very nervous. Never done this before. It's only me. Is there anything I can do to put you at your ease? No, not really. Right, carry on, then. Yeah. So it's an answer to the assassinate. Oh, yes. Go on. And what's. What's assassination? Assassination is basically the. It's a murder of a. Like, an important person, but for either political or religious motivations or for, like, if you're getting paid to murder. Okay, I forgot about the paid one as well. A paid assassin. Qualifications. Yes. I used to work for the metro newspaper in London, and my boss got into massive, massive trouble for spelling the word assassinate wrong in the paper once. So we always used to look it up. And that is where you got. That's where you got your answer. So, technically, I apologize for the morbidity of this, but it was the example that was. That was given. Joe Cox was assassinated. Technically, yes. Technically, yes. I guess she would have been, yes. And it is odd that people don't say that, but then again, I guess, you know, a round of applause for Jonathan. Absolutely. Something to do with the political environment in which we live. A white supremacist terrorist is not described as a white supremacist terrorist, and his crime is not described as an assassination. Make of that what you will. Last word today to Vance, who is in Regents Park. Vance. Question or answer? Hello? Answer. Carry on. Right. Kettle or saucepan? Question. It depends on three factors. It depends on the materials that the kettle is made of. Many modern kettles are made of plastic. Non conducting plastic, in a sense, would give kettles more efficiency, but it also depends on the surface area of both items. If you're trying to boil water in a large metal pot, it's got a large surface area which wastes heat even as you're heating it up. And also it depends on the rate at which you're heating. Okay. A kettle is usually more efficient because you're heating very fast, and that gives less time for heat to be radiated out from it. But if you're okay. But a pot is usually not receding heat so fast in relation to the rate at which it's losing heat. So it depends on three factors. And physics was my. One of my degrees. So one of my degrees get you. And you've snuck in at the end, so I can't tease you about that either. Vance. What a beautiful play that is. Have a round of applause on me. That is it from me for today, history does not report how many degrees Sheila Fogarty has got, but she has got. She's got a master's degree in chat. Oh. Oh. Oh, I do. Oh, I do. Thank you. My mum was telling me the other day that I have indeed kissed the Blarney stone. I don't remember doing it, but she said, I have when I was a kid. So there you go. That's why. Thanks very much indeed, James. So, no dodgy algorithms, no external examiners counting towards final grades. GCSE and A levels cancelled in England by the pandemic will be replaced by grades decided by teachers. Schools can determine grades this summer by using mock exams, coursework, essays. There will be optional assessments set by exam boards for all subjects, so some outside assessment, but they won't be taken in exam conditions or decide on the ultimate grade that a pupil gets. So what I want to know is, as a teacher, how hard is it to be brutal in your assessment of a teacher teenager you've taught for years and take the pandemic into account? And does the final decision, this decision, I should say, does it finally give pupils a clear run at things, a clear run at their studies, on your radio, on global player and play LBC, leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.