What does the X mean in LAX?

1204 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour is underway. Before we kick off in earnest, a lot of you expressing a lot of love and concern for Dave. The last caller. I know you'll still be listening, mate, and a lot of people are telling me you will get help. And the first step, of course, contacting a GP or even social services. A lot of other mothers and fathers have been in exactly the same position as you. I have walked in that man's shoes, says one of my texts, and I promise you, I promise him that it will get better. And the first thing you have to do, Dave, is do what you did with me and just tell a proper professional the story and get the help that you and your boy so clearly deserve, let alone need. And I will keep in touch with you because I am going to make sure you keep that promise because, well, contrary to what some recent developments might suggest, this is a place where people who care about other human beings are allowed to thrive and work. It's five minutes after twelve. Let's get mystery hour kicked off. Should we do it without the introduction this week and just let people who haven't listened to it before work out what's going on? Or should we do the introduction? Should we just start off straight away? Should we do it cold? Should we dive, Trevor, what do you reckon? Are you ready to. You ready to make mystery our history? Well, hopefully. I'm not sure, but it's definitely. That's not what I need, is it? When I'm. When I'm done, the end of Brighton Pier with my wings expanded and I turn to you for support and you go, oh, it's a bit windy, mate. I don't know about this. Start flapping, Trevor. Start flapping, mate. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. I went to the States last year and was told to get on the. When I was leaving the. The airport will be on the. The motorway. And I got totally lost because I had no idea what lax was. No one's been able to tell me what the x is. What does the X stand for? In LA airport? Yes. Los Angeles airport, isn't it? Just to distinguish it from somewhere else? I have no idea, but I. It's not. I got. I got a level with you, mate. First question of 2017. It's already a contender for one of the dullest. No, it's a genuine one. I know it is, but I kind of can't help thinking, a, that we've done it before and b, actually, no, I'm being unkind. I don't know what the x stands for. I can't criticize you for asking the question, can I? Well, I don't know. I literally rung 30 seconds ago and put on straight away. So that's because you got in first. Questions are going to be like, well, if they're any worse than this, I think we're all doomed. There's a little lesson there. There's a message for people there. Don't wait for me to start. Ring in during the news. And you might get on first with a slightly substandard question. Not that Trevor's question is necessarily slightly substandard because we've learned anything in recent weeks on mystery errors that every time I take the mix, someone for asking a rubbish question, it turns out, a, that the question wasn't rubbish at all and b that I made a complete herbert of myself for mocking them. Seven minutes after twelve, Sam is in Twickenham. Sam, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I tripped over the other day and banged my head and knocked myself. It's not medical hour. All right, carry on. So, yeah, I knocked myself out. It's never happened to me before and I was wondering why we get knocked out. Like an evolutionary. An evolutionary explanation for it. There must be some kind of reason for it, but I just have no idea what it would be. I like that. Yeah, I like. I mean, if you. If you don't get knocked out, but you might have sustained a concussion, they tell you to stay still, don't they? So it's probably to do with keeping your brain stationary. But. But. But probably is not definitive, is it? What happened to you when you knocked yourself? You just literally fell over. Were you drunk? No, I wasn't. You know, it was literally. I was walking down the road and a bit of a curb stuck up where I was going and. Yeah, tripped and whacked my head. How long before you came? How long were you out cold for? I don't know. Like, I actually don't know. But when I woke up there was a rather concerned woman over me, sort of trying to help me out. But, yeah, it was all a bit odd. And you're all right now, I think so it might have knocked some sense into me. So the evolutionary explanation of getting knocked out, I love that, actually. Zero. 345-606-0973 nice one, Sam. And what does the x stand for in LaX? Right. Do you understand this? Now? The front lines are full, so I'm presuming I don't have to explain to the new listeners what's going on. Don't be dull. That's quite important. Okay. And equally, don't ask questions that have been answered before. And you can deal with that by going to LBC dot co dot UK and checking out our revamped, refurbished, new look comprehensive mystery hour archive. Charmian is in Kenley. Did I pronounce your name correctly? You did. Happy new year to you. Happy new year to you, too. Do you have a question or an answer for me? A question. Please carry on. When you make a beeline to something, where did the word or the term beeline come from? Is it not just because bees flying a straight line? Bee is not a straight line. Yeah. Once it's got the honey and it's coming back to the hive. Straight line. Boom. Bee line. Yeah. I'm not happy with that answer, though. Well, hang on a minute. I am employing Occam's razor, madam, and once. I'm sure you are. Yes, I'm sure you are, but it just doesn't make sense to me. How do you know the bee goes a straight line to the hive? Okay, maybe it's the other way around. Do you know, I've read a book about bees, and I'm actually gonna go 90% certain on this. I read a brilliant book about this. I got a lovely message on Twitter, I mentioned it on the show, and the author tweeted me, xiaomi, can you believe that? No, you don't sound as interested or indeed as impressed as I was by that little episode. No, it sounds just as dull as the lax. Everyone's a critic. You know, when a bee finds some, some, it's not honey, it's nectar. They turn the nectar inside. So a bee finds nectar. Right? Yeah, I'm listening, I'm listening. I'm all here he comes back to the hive. This is the drone, but the worker bee comes back to the hive. Does a bee boogie? A little dance? A little bee dance, which instructs the other bees where the nectar is. They then fly. Boom. Straight line. Making a beeline for the nectar. Hmm. Let's put it out there. I was expecting a round of applause there. And I got an mmm. Let's put it out there. Let's put it out there. All right, so you'd be rejecting my. What are you going to do if I turn out? I would say, let's have. Let's have your answer confirmed. All right. And if it turns out to be true, then you get your round of applause, see what I'm doing now is using you very surreptitiously to explain the rules to new listeners without making it a formal arrangement, you see? Thank you, James. Thank you, Charmian. Tony's in Wembley. Tony, question. All right, Tony. You haven't got a pen, have you? I've. Come on mystery over that pen again. A bit too far for me to give it to you. All right, then. Carry on. Question or answer? I've got a question, please. Yes. Well, basically, sometimes when you watch, like, these fishing programs, or even if you're on a ferry going somewhere, why do you always have seagulls literally there waiting for fish or food? Obviously, they can't follow the arm. The fishing trailer. Sometimes it's traveling 24 hours a night. So how are they always seagulls there, mate, do you want to have a little think about that? I am. I think about it. Right. So what is the mystery? What are you. What is mysterious about the fact that seagulls end up miles away from land? What is mystery in the middle of the Atlantic? They don't sleep out there today in the freezing cold. They stay out there on the sea waiting for a fish controller. They don't know where the fish controller is going to dock to fish for fish. Well, I mean, you. You're aware that they can land on water, right? I am aware. Okay. Sometimes you've got a fishing trawler traveling for two days. They can't fly. All that time following a fishing trawler. Sure. But they're there. Lots of fishing trawlers around, and they go to the one that they find. No, hang on a minute. What do you think the. What do you think the answer might be? Obviously, they found. But sometimes you're in the middle of the Atlantic, North Sea, and you got. You got armed Seagog there with a fishing trailer waiting for fish. I'm doing it again. I'm about to start taking the mickey out of you, and I've got a horrible feeling it'll come around and bite me on the backside, and I'll end up looking like a prune. A seagull might bite you on it, but they can't. Yeah, all right. But they can't be. You've never been in the middle of the Atlantic, Tony? No. So how are the seagulls? But how do you know that there are seagulls in the middle of the Atlantic if you've never been there? If you watch a show like, um, the deadliest catch, for example, they've got fishing trails out there, and they see gulls flocking the place, whether it's during the day or night, and they're there diving down for the loose fish they flow aboard. I don't know that. It's a mystery to me, is a mystery car. Don't know the answer to it. Yeah. All right, I'm going to put it on the board. So how does, how does seagulls end up miles away from land? And you don't think that the fact that they can fly and land on water is a sufficient answer to your question? No. No, I don't think it is now. Well, I can't. I can't at this point in proceeding is. I can't imagine there is another answer out there. How does a seagull end up miles away from land? By flying and resting on the water. Obviously, they do fly. Yes. So what I'm trying to say is, sometimes you've got a fishing trawler traveling for two days without stopping. I'm sure the seagulls can't fly that fast and they can stop for a kip. They can kip on the water, mate. But when they keep the fishing trawler, it's still moving. But they're not. It's not like a seagull has a specific. They're not monogamous. They don't have an exclusive relationship with one fishing trawler. I know, but every time you see a program, they're there. I don't know that. You might be watching too many weird programs. Of course they're there because they live in the sea. They're called seagulls. Well, I don't live in the sea. They live on the cliffs and they go off on the. How do you know? How do you know when you're watching, what is it you watch? World's deadliest catch. Like a deadliest catch, for example. For example, how do you know that there isn't an island about a mile away from where the cameras are filming the boat? Nah. How do you know? I don't know that as a fact. How do you know that the sea. How the seagulls get. That's all I want to know is how they always be, no matter what program or whatever you watch, even if I'm going to. From Calais to Dover, you've got seagulls. My mate swimming from Calais to Dover later this year, I think he can swim it. A seagull can make the journey all right. I'm putting it on the board only because I came a bit of a cropper last year when I started taking the mickey out of callers all right. Okay. Cheers. All right? Yeah, I'll do my best. It's 1215, mystery Hour, with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 20 minutes after twelve questions that need answers. Quite a boring one up first. But, hey, you know, Rome wasn't built in a day. What does the x stand for in LAX? That's the airport. Poor old Trevor's getting a ride all kicking. Look, this got asked. All right? How do seagulls end up so far away from land so that they can chase? Because they fly and land on water. But we need to go definitive. And beeline, what's the origin of the phrase? I think I've answered all of these, you know, but quite sort of naughty callers today, not accepting my genius and. Brilliant. It's 20 minutes off to twelve. Darren is in Swindon. Darren, question or answer? I'll go ahead and answer for you, James. Good man. Bring it on. Yeah, well, I'm shocked. I've got the humor. Hoover, answer the laX. Go on. So it's just a three letter airport identifier. So it used to be two letters and then it went up to three, so they had to stick something on the end of it. But, yeah, none. And, you know, for example, like Dubai's dux, Toronto's Yyz. It won't always follow, necessarily, the town or whatever, or the city, because it might have more than one airport, but it's just a three letter identifier. The X doesn't mean anything. Do we know why they chose X? Probably. I'd be speculating, mate, but I would say that not many cities have loads of exes in them. So, you know, it's one of those things. The Canadians, I think they have, like, o y's in there. So Yyz is Toronto, really? Yyt is Calgary. And they decided to change them. I know it's a bit geekish, mate. It's a bit trained spotter ish. Well, that leads me to my final question, which is, what are your qualifications? How do you know this? I used to do dangerous goods concerning their operations in the military. And I do points collecting, you know, to get business class flights. First class flights. Oh, good man. No, that'll do that. You almost got your rally out of that. But not quite. It gets you a round of applause. Cheers, mate. Hang on. Darren, have you been paying attention. Have you been paying attention to mystery hour today or regularly? Yeah, because I didn't have a pen for the first 20 minutes. I've only got one now, so I've crossed off the lax one. I've got beeline and seagulls. Was there another question in the first ten minutes? No, I can't remember, mate. I was too busy remembering my. Too busy dragging. Now, that's it. Yeah. Why do we get knocked out? Remember, unconscious? What's the evil, evolutionary evil? What's the evolutionary explanation for why we can be rendered unconscious? Why we knock ourselves out? Why does it happen? Why does our body do it? Colin is in Ricell. Colin, question or answer? It's a question, James. Why is it that a lot of people do it? That when you're sitting indoors with your tele remote or something like that, it doesn't seem to work? And the answer is. Well, the batteries are flat. Why do you remove the back cover, twiddle the batteries around and it seems to work. Have you never done it? I think because I've had a week off. I was away for Christmas. I think I've lost. I'm finding every question rubbish today, Cole. I done it last night. I couldn't get my remote television to change channels and I just moved the battery slightly and it worked. And I thought you didn't. Didn't you just make it? I mean, the connection had broken and then you just remade the connection, surely? Well, no, it works intermittently, like, the batteries are flat, but as soon as you fiddle them around. What, it works on everything? Yeah, some people swap them over. They do. I know. And you get. You get another half an hour out of them that way, that kind of thing. If they're flat. They're flat. Well, they're not, are they? All right, you're turning into quite a good question. Now, I like this Colin, so I might introduce a little bit more rigor in the question asking process so that we can move. Move away from our first impressions and instead focus on the true depth of the inquiry. Yeah, so it doesn't work and then it does work. How come, just with a wiggle, if the battery is flat, it's flat. Now, stop saying that, because it clearly isn't, is it? If it worked ten minutes later. Well, we'll see. Well, no, we won't. No one's going to say it is definitely flat, but it still works, Cole, are they? No, maybe not. All right, batteries. Seagulls, beelines any idea on knocking yourself unconscious? Brain trauma, that's it. Thank you, Colin. 24 minutes after twelve is the time. I've got all their albums. Scotty's in White City. Scotty, question or answer? A question, James. Very answer. Earlier on your previous hour, you spoke about you talking to one of your callers and you mentioned beak as he referring to a judge. I did, yeah. I believe, yeah. Yeah. Where does that come from? You may have. You may have asked. Someone may have asked it before, but I just. I had heard the saying before, but I can never understand why. I was trying to think of maybe headwear, but I couldn't think of why a judge would be called a beak if it's rhyming slave or something to do with the wig. Well, that's what I thought, but then I couldn't. I was trying to think along those lines, but I couldn't think why. Because we got a nose bag. There's a nose, isn't it, to do with lavender bags, bags of love, isn't it? Because when they go into stinky prisons in victorian times, they'd have a kind of. I'm making it up as I go along, but I think it's got. I think it's got something to do with, like having smelling salts strapped to your face. You're not going to buy that, are you? You're not going to buy that for love nor money. I can tell. It's a bit flaky. It is a bit flaky, but I'm pretty sure it's right. I just can't quite pin it there. All right, you're on. Why? Why? If it turns out to have something to do with nose bags being strapped to your face, I want you to send me a postal order for two pound 50 by tea time today. All day long? All day long, sir. Carry on, Scotty. Thank you. Why judges call beaks, why the college batteries work after he's given them a wiggle. How do seagulls end up miles and miles and miles away from land? I think the point of that question was how do they end up near the fishing boat? Miles and miles and miles away from land? It wasn't so much a mystery about how seagulls can fly and float, but again, can you just put. Put him out of his misery? Go on. Beelines and the evolutionary explanation for unconsciousness. John's in reading. John, question or answer? I've got an answer for seagull question. Have you? Well, yeah. Go on, then. I wouldn't have rung up otherwise. Well, true. Well, I do have an answer for the battery one, but I can't go there because I'm not allowed. Quite right, to give me the seagull rules. Rules. Okay, so seagulls, they get. They obviously follow the trawlers because they know they're going to get fed. Who do you think you are? Eric Cantineau? Yeah. Well, there you go. So they get used to the trawlers, the smell and the fact that they're throwing things over the side and things like that. So they stay with the trawler. Always think about halfway across the Atlantic. The trawlers don't have them halfway across the Atlantic, because generally the birds will rest on the water, but they will also rest on vessels as well. Various vessels. It doesn't have to be trawlers. It could be liners and things like that, especially at night time, when there's generally no one on the upper deck to shoot them away. And as for them, one thing they do say is when it's really rough weather and they have difficulty sort of resting on a surface, they tend to go further inland. So the more further inland you'll see seagulls, it means it's rougher at sea. So that is an explanation as to why they don't land on the water when it's really rough. Hang on, you're going off message a bit now. He needs to know how come they're near the trawler, miles away from land, and I think we've all can smell the fish. So they do stick with the trawler and they're not. Eventually they will get tired and they have to go back, and then as the trawler comes back in, because obviously, when the trawler's coming back in there, they're sorting out their catch and they're throwing things over the side and they learn. That is why the seagull follows the trawler, because they think the sardines will be in the sea. I didn't know you spoke Italian. Merci, bokupi. I'm gonna give. Oh, hang on. I know what your qualifications are, don't I? 16 years in the navy. See, that's got it in the navy. That's got to do, hasn't it? Better than watching someone on the Discovery Channel about the world's deadliest catch. Yeah, I would say so. And on a naval ship, presumably, you don't tolerate. You don't get seagulls because there ain't no sardines falling off the back of the boat. Well, we do, because the chefs do over the side, but not many, but we do still get them landing on a ship. And albatrosses, especially, because they go further out because they have a longer wingspan, sort of six, seven foot wingspan, and they can glide effort easily. Yeah, well played over vast distances compared to seagulls. Round of applause. Oh, you've done it, mate. I don't think that was brilliant. Well done. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. 28 minutes after twelve. Scott, mate, it's a bit strong. Hello, James. I've told a lot of family and friends over Christmas to listen today, mystery Aaron, you've really let us down with these questions. It's not for me. You should be directing that. Should be directing it at the producer. Katrina will be up for now. I can squeeze you in, actually. Katrina, question or answer? Hello. Hello. I've got a question for you. And please like it, because I'd be devastated if you didn't. Oh, well, the pressure's on now. Go on. So, do you know when you're a child and you're born with a certain color eyes, or when you get about a toddler, you have a certain color hair? Yeah. That changes sometimes. And why does that happen? It does. You know, I used to. I used to be flaxen haired. I used to have blonde hair, like. Like a pair. Like a baby on the front of a purse soap packet. I'm sure you'd look beautiful like that. I did. I was a gorgeous baby. God. Downhill from the age of about five and a half, I think, if I remember correctly. So. And your eyes change color as well? Every seven years, I think your hair changes, can change color. Well, you want to know why? Yeah. Why does it do that? All right. I don't. I mean, there may not be an answer to it, but if there is, we will endeavour to get it for you and. Yeah, I quite like that question, Katrina. Although, frankly, these things are relative on a day like today. Katrina, mind how you go. It's coming up to 12:30 I like some of these questions, Scott, you cheeky beggar. Beaks. Why magistrates call beaks. All right, Colin's batteries is pushing it a little bit, but we've all wondered why it suddenly works again after it didn't work. You've just given the batteries a bit of a wiggle. Making a beeline for something. What's the origin of that phrase and the evolutionary explanation of unconsciousness? Get over yourself, Scott Whitehead. These are good questions. All right? It's not my fault if you're not appreciating them. Time now for the news headlines with Simon. Why do we go unconscious? What is the, if there is one, the evolutionary explanation for that. What's the origin of the phrase to make a beeline for something? I'm pretty sure I've answered that, but Charmian who answered, asked the question was not prepared to accept my answer as definitive. Colin wants to know why his remote control started working again last night after he wiggled his batteries. And there are no euphemisms involved in that statement or that question even. And I want to know. I can't remember the name of the Federer who asked the question, but it's a cracker. Why do we call magistrates beaks? And why do our hair and eyes change colour as we grow older? We need to start getting some answers on the board. 5606-0973 James. Ah, James McVeigh. Hello, Jack. Very happy new year to you. James McVeigh. For the benefit of older listeners, he's a member of the popular beat combo the vamps and a great friend of this program. What's prompted you to ring into mystery out for the first time, James? Well, I know you've been slightly sort of questioning whether the questions so far have been good or not. Yes, and that's why I thought I'd time my question right now. So if it's awful, it's all blended in with the other one. I like it. Camouflage. Camouflage among. Among the other dross. Exactly. So I want to know if literally everyone that I've ever met can whistle in tune. Surely if the brain has the power to put everyone's mouth in the correct positions for that song to be in tune, why can't the brain do the same thing for singing? Are you sure that everyone can whistle in tune? Well, I mean, have you ever met someone that can't? Well, I haven't asked everyone to whistle for me. My little girl's learning to whistle now and it's not. It's not. I'm not going to lie to you, James, I love her dearly, but it's not a very pleasant noise that she makes. Well, it's either you can whistle or you can't. You can't, sort of. Not. So, like, you can't go in the middle. So surely everyone that I've met, when they whistle, they can whistle in tune. Or maybe, maybe, you know, most people that can whistle, can whistle in tune, but most people that sing aren't in tune, really. How can anybody, because somebody listening to this will be able to whistle in tune but not sing in tune. And you want to know how that works? Yeah, because the brain, obviously, because whistling, if you do it in a tune, then the mouth moves in so many different positions if you want to be, you know, doing like a pretty complicated song or something. But why can't your brain apply that same power to your vocal cords. Yeah, yeah, right. A pretty complicated song. Like. Like, for example, wild Heart. Exactly. Yeah. You know, anything. I thought you'd like that. Right? It's a reference to your second single. It's your second. I mean, I mean, you know, it came out in the day. I know you did. I'm showing you that. I was in. I was into the vamps before. Before. It was cool, man. I'll try. Get anybody. How can anybody whistle in tune but not sing in tune? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Have a good time. We'll see you soon. It's 1236. Mike is in Barnett. Mike. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's to why do we get knocked out? And I would have thought it was quite simple. The brain is a bit like a computer. And if you dropped your computer, it would freeze up and reboot itself. And the brain is exactly the same way. It's a self preservation mechanism in order to stop any kind of bruising or contusions to the outside of the brain as it smacks into the skull. And it's why fighters like Mike Tyson, who had incredibly thick necks, were almost impossible to knock out because their brain did not move in their skull when they got hit. So it's because I was going to respond to that by saying, well, hang on, it's a bit late, isn't it? Because you've already been knocked out when you've been knocked out. The idea is that by being unconscious, you won't get any kind of additional, additional trauma being created. So it's basically very much like if you dropped your phone or an electronic piece of equipment. It's not meant. No, no, I don't like that analogy. That doesn't work for me. But I like the rest of it. It's not like dropping a computer. You get knocked out, Spark. It's not like you've dropped your tablet, is it? Well, the computer's got circuits in it very much like our brains have got circuits. And if they're. If they're. If they're basically. If they're reacting to a trauma, like getting knocked out, like being here. You've done me up. You've done me up. I, like I stand corrected. Is there nothing about the old notion of playing dead? No. It's a bit like, you know, the theory that if you were to fall from a great height, your brain would shut down before you actually hit the floor, which is a horrible. I mean, obviously there's very little ways that we can prove that in any kind of legal way, but, yeah, the brain is there to shut down as soon as any kind of major trauma comes in. Same with a gunshot wound. Same with anything like that. Your body will react in a way to stop any further damage being created to it. So, yeah, you could. Very strong. Very strong. Answer, Michael. Question. What are your qualifications? Can I answer the. No. What are your qualifications? I used to be a boxer. I used to be a boxer. Isn't that a song? So I've been knocked out a few times. Have you really? I have. Did. Were you. Were you. Did you enjoy much success as a boxer? No, not much. There was a clue in your life. There was a clue in your last piece of information. I've been knocked out a few times. Did you enjoy much success as a boxer? Killer? Question, James. You really went straight for the j. I've been knocked out several times, Mike, great work, mate. Have a round of applause. No worries. Lovely stuff. What's the song I just heard then from Bugsy Malone when he said, I used to be a boxer. It was a lovely. Do you want to be a boxer? Yeah. Debbie's in. Good grief. Stow gumber. Yeah. Sounds like something. It sounds like a character from a roald doll novel. Where is it? Somerset. Yeah, in Somerset. Lovely. Question or answer, Debbie? It's a question. Yes. When I was a kid growing up in London, we used to have a rag and bone man come round quite regularly. Yes, I get the rag part. Why bone? They used to take bones. Oh, right. Yeah. It really is as simple as it sounds. They used to take bones. Okay. I feel like I've just added to your. And there was a reason why they would take bones, because you. You are. You boil them up or something, don't you? I don't know. You do. You boil. You boil them up. And anyway, it was literally bones. They would take bones away. And there was some recycled. But was the first form of recycling, you know, the rag and bone man. We think of recycling as being something quite new, don't we? Yeah, but that's what he was doing. He was recycling stuff. Same as the Corona man used to come around and collect up the bottle. Yeah, I remember that. With the. The little dimples on the bottle. He is definitely real bones. So I'm not. I can't remember what my qualifications are. I just know that. And I haven't had a round of applause yet, Debbie, so I'm going to take one now. Well played. If I turn out to be wrong about that, I will give you the money myself. Charlie is in calderale. Charlie, question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Bring it on, Charlie. So the singing whistling thing. Yes. You realize that you're answering a question that was asked by a bona fide pop star, don't you? Yeah, I'm a singing teacher. All right. A singing teacher giving a lesson to a bonafide pop star. We probably need more of that. Carry on. So recognizing something, recognizing whether something is in tune or not is part of the oral mechanism of singing and musicianship. So that's done through hearing and in your brain and everything. And the physical mechanisms to whistle in tune are considerably less complex than the physical mechanisms needed to sing in tune. So whistling in tune is just, as you guys from the vamps were saying, is just the tightening of the lips and the opening and closing and stuff like that. So, I mean, it's not a brilliant answer in the sense of being illuminating, but it's brilliant in the sense of being correct. Why can you whistle in tune and not sing in tune? Because it's a lot easier, is what you're telling me. Well, yeah, basically. And then, so singing involves considerable more control over how you compress the air through your vocal folds to make them vibrate at the right frequency that you want to produce the notes and the sounds that you're after. Yeah, that'll do. And your qualifications are, you're a singing teacher. Can you teach anyone to sing? Yeah. Even. Even someone who can't sing very well at all. Yeah, this is what they all say, isn't it? All singing teachers say this. No, no, a lot of them don't. I mean, I run choirs and I adamantly do not audition for my choirs and my youth choir from. I run a youth choir from. And they got a five star review at the Edinburgh. Nice. Great work. And it's such a great thing to do, singing. It's so good for children as well, isn't it, to have that. Not only that sense of, you know, doing something together, but also there's. It takes you out of yourself, singing. It really lets you sort of spread your wings. I gotta give you a lovely. Charlie, well played, mate. Great work. Thank you. Thank you. 1242 is the time. Eddie is in slough. Eddie, question or answer? Bring it on, Eddie. The bee line, you're absolutely 100% correct. Boom. So the bee flies out, find some nectar and then straight back to the hive. Straight back to the hive. And if you want to ever prove that, if you move a hive a couple of feet left or right, you'll just see the bee fly around and around in circles because it knows the entrance, but you've now moved it and it won't really. That's like sonar. That's incredible, isn't it? And that the beeline is the journey back from the. From the nectar to the hive. Is it? Yeah. Wherever it flies out, it will fly back exactly the same line. So it will make a beeline for the hive. It'll make a big. Well, make a bl. Fly back in the same line when it leaves the hive. It can fly in any direction, but it will always fly back in the same direction as it flew out. Round of applause for it. Well, hang on. Qualifications? Beekeeper. Beekeeper. Qualifications? Beekeeper. Round applause ready? 1243 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. David is in chalk farm. David, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Carry on. How does the Heimlich manoeuvre work? That is what's actually occurring inside the body that causes the matter, the expulsion of the matter that's caught in the airway. It's there. Hey. So there's no kind of peristaltic type muscular. Great, great use of peristaltic. Great. No. So what you've got is you've got a. Think of a balloon with a marble in the neck. Yeah. But there's some air in the balloon and you squeeze it really hard, really quickly like that. What happens to the marble? It shoots out? That is the Heimlich maneuver, my friend. Really? Well, I've done it again now, because I'm thinking, yeah, duh. But the fact that. The fact that you. The fact that you find it more complicated than that is now making me wonder whether I'm missing a trick here. What else could it be? Is it you've got a bloke who's choking. Yeah, yeah. And his windpipe is blocked by the food. It's gone down the wrong hole, as we used to say when we were children. And someone else grabs, gets the balloon that is their abdomen, squeezes it really quickly, sends a bolt of air up their windpipe and knocks the food out again. Yeah, it's got. It's got to be true. Sounds logical. That sounds logical, James, the only reason why I'm a little bit skeptical is because, I don't know, I just, you know, I just thought maybe there was some kind of muscular reflexive pulse or something. I'm having a round of applause for that and I'm going to scurry off to the travel news before anyone objects. David, thank you very much. Time now for J Louise Knight in the LBC Travel center mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1250 is the time. Questions still in need of answers include poor old Colin's wiggly batteries, the origins of the phrase beak when describing magistrates, the reason why your hair and eyes change colour. And I think that's pretty much it. We've done the beeline and we've knocked ourselves unconscious. Keith is in Uxbridge. Keith, question or answer? It's an answer. On the battery. Oh, yes. Why do Colin's batteries work on his remote control after he's given them a wiggle when they didn't work before? Right. Basically on the batteries, it's. The internal resistance actually goes up. Hey, well, just by wiggling them. No, what it is, the resistance is up on the battery as you use it and by actually either heating the batteries up or moving the batteries around, you actually changing the resistance of the circuit. So you will get a bit more extra use. Can you explain it in a way that acknowledges the existence of people who don't really know what resistance means in this context? Okay, say, take it some water flow, then. Yeah, flow into water. So if. If you allow water to go down a slope free. Yeah. Then obviously it will flow quicker. If you put any restriction away, like a dam or you tilt the path of the water bucket, obviously the amount of water flowing will slow down. And it's the same with the electricity. The more resistance in the circuit, the less flow you're going to get less amperage. You're very good qualifications. I think I know a qualified electrician. Are you still. Are you still working. Are you still working as an electrician? Yeah. Do you. Do you have branded overalls? No. Why not? I've got branded clothes. Well, do you work for yourself or do you work for a company? I work for myself. Well, who does your. Who does your. Who does your overalls? Who does your clothes? We. We just outsource it. Who to, though? Various health and safety. How many do you have employees? Is it your company, Keith? Yes, it is. Get yourself down to balcony shirts on Windsor street in Uxbridge. Right. And he'll do you a deal on your new kit. Oh, wow. Seriously, tell him I sent you. Yeah. Balcony says you know Windsor street near Waterstones. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Get yourself down there. Thank you. I promise you come back to me if you're not happy with the service you receive. All right? All right, I will do, yeah. Good man. Thank you, Keith. Give me a round of applause as well. It's a lovely answer. I'll play Keith. Don't forget balcony shirts. Windsor Street. John is in St. Albans. John, question or answer? Mexican standoffs. Why standoffs? Mexican. Oh, I like it. We need to do a bit more bantering, though, because I haven't got another call to go to. Oh, yes, I have. Just trying to turn it around because I said goodbye to Keith so quickly. A Mexican stand up, is it not something? Is it? Isn't it possibly western? Yeah. Why is the standoff Mexican? Love it. You're on. Okay, let's get it up there. Mexican standoffs. Why Mexican zero 345-606-0973 why does your hair and color eyes change color as you get older? We've done Colin's wiggly batteries. That's a lovely answer, that. And why are magistrates called beaks? Charlie's in reigate. Charlie, question or answer? Hello. Hello, James. I've got an answer. Carry on, Charlie. It's to do with their hair color changing as you're getting older. Yeah. Why does that happen, then? So it's all to do with a protein called melanin. And your jeans. You'll get a bit from your mum and a bit from your dad. Yeah. And then your jeans will kind of turn on and off. So a bit of your mum's bit, your dad's. And then as you get older, it'll constantly change and eventually it. Well, it will go on for ages and ages because eventually you'll go gray. But it just keep going on and going on and jeans getting turned on and off, genes getting. Are you a fully qualified geneticist, Charlie? No, but I've read a couple of books about. And is that simple? And is there. Is there a cyclical note? Is there a. Because I somewhere had seven years filed away somewhere in my memory banks. Well, it will constantly change, as I say. Yeah, but it doesn't constantly change. You don't go to bed ginger and wake up brunette, do you? Well, no, but gradual over what sort of period of time do we know or. Well, no change dependent on the person. So, in a way, genetically speaking. Yeah, genetically speaking, it's the same reason why you don't have exactly the same hair color as you, as your brother, even though you've got exactly the same parents. Yeah, because it could change. Yeah. Because things are turning on and off at different times. Are you sure about this? I like the answer. I just find the phrase turning your jeans on and off a little bit unpersuasive. My new year's resolution last year, James, was to read more about science because I didn't think I learned enough. So it would have been last year that I learned it. Great. It stuck with me. No, you're on. You're on. What books have you read? What would you recommend for people who want to broaden their scientific horizons? Ask you a question? Well, I say I read them over last year. I stopped reading about three months ago. I'm on history ones at the moment. What are you doing? What are you reading history wise? I'm all about World War one at the moment. Climb me. So I'm trying to get a bit more factual, you know. I'm not. Yeah. I mean, World War one, I need to read up a little bit more about that because I've fallen into the trap of reading historical fiction and kidding myself that it's as good as reading proper history books. But you're reading about dragons and. No, it's. No, not that flipping that kind of fantasy fiction. I've just read an amazing book that makes a lot of reference to Stalingrad and the Red army and all that sort of thing. And it is a period of history we know remarkably little about. Yeah, that's the point. But, yeah, I do like sort of learning those stuff and reading now rather than just watching the tv. Yeah, well, that's why you're listening to mystery as well. It sort of feeds the same appetite, doesn't it, really? My day off today. Turn the tv off for an hour. I'm free. Just listening. Do you mean an hour? I've been here since 10:00 well, no, but it's question time that I really like. But I did like the bit with the. Dave was his name before Dave. Bless his little cotton socks. Yeah, he'll be all right. We'll look after Dave. We'll look after Dave. Give Charlie a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you, Charlie. Great work. Ian is in Norbury. Ian. Question or answer? It's an answer. It's to do with the beak. Yeah. In. During the time of the great plague, and especially in 1666, they thought that the plague was. Was disseminated by germs and by the air spores. Well, yeah, exactly. Very. No, well, they wouldn't have understood that. No, I know, but the posh people, people with a lot of money could afford to have masks, and the masks were frequently the shape of a beak. And inside the bill there are herbs and so forth, which they thought would like an air freshener. Exactly. Under your nose, you strapped it to your face. Yes. So if a magistrate or a judge had to go into a closed culture, and he thought, oh, there's going to be much more chance of me contracting this disease because it's full of plebs. Yeah. Full of gloves. Yeah. Down there. Yeah. Wreaking and carrying on. What plebs do exactly that. And so they. They kept the mask on all the time and they could also the fun of looking down the mask and seeing the nasty people below. So they were then called the beaks. That is pretty comprehensive. What are your qualifications, Ian? Oh, those things you've heard of, I think, called books. Read a few books. All right. He might have had a degree in history or something, I don't know, but that is. It was far away, somewhere inside me, but I didn't drag it up with the adroitness that you just employed. Round of applause for Ian. Thank you. Let's squeeze in one more. Asma's in middle. You've got 30 seconds, Asma, make it good. Question or answer? Go on. Heimlich maneuver. So you're basically right, it is air. It's basically, you have a foreign body which goes down the wrong end, like you said, gets stuck in your windpipe. So when you're doing the hemlich maneuver, you put pressure on the top of your abdomen just by your diaphragm is, and you compress the lungs and out pops the foreign body with lots of air. That's kind of. What did I say wrong? You just repeated what I said in the hope of getting a cheap round of applause. No. So basically, it's right, but it's a pressure, so it can't. It's not just air by itself, you need pressure there. That's what I said. You squeeze the balloon and the air shoots up the spout and the marble flies out the end. Thank you. I'll give her a round of applause quickly. That's it for me for another day. We will do it all again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty.