Who is Pete?

Minutes after twelve is the time. Thank goodness for mystery, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that's not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. And I have a plethora of phonos. Caroline's in a bit of a mood today. She's going to be very, very picky and choosy with the questions. I've already had to insist that Lawrence and Esha be allowed on because she didn't like the look cut of his jib when he first rang in. It means that you've got a better chance of getting through than you usually do. Hit the numbers now and you will actually get through, which is very rarely the case. At three minutes after twelve on a Thursday afternoon, zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. But what is mystery hour, James? Say some of the new listeners responsible for the 193% increase in listening hours to this program over the course of the last twelve months. Well, I'll explain, says James, if you just give me a chance. It's about those little questions bubbling away in the back of your brain that you know, probably have an answer, but you're damned if you've been able to find it yourself. The who's, the whys, the wherefores, the withers, even the occasional whence. Oh, and don't forget the whats. Never forget the WhatsApp. Did you know that James Watt nicked the idea for the steam engine off? Oh, no, I've forgotten his name off the brother of somebody really famous. Oh, it'll come to me. Anyway, I digress slightly. And the foam board's full now, so be patient and be quick. Judicious use of redial is the answer. That's the trick you need to do. I see it as the radio equivalent of one of those newspaper features where you write in with a question and then someone writes in a few weeks later with the answer. Except today you get the answer live. Anything you want, as long as it's sensible. We don't generally like motoring questions, as we proved yesterday. Motoring and for me at least, motoring and radio. Do you know what it is? It's enthusiasm. So if I loved motoring, if I was a real petrol head, I could probably make motoring issues more interesting, because I'm not. I can't. That's a fairly reliable indicator for mystery hour as well. If you're thinking about asking me a question related to motoring, the chances are that you won't get on otherwise. Repetition is the only rule. Try not to ask something that we've asked relatively recently. Obviously you wouldn't know whether we'd asked it. Relatively. Look at that. We've got a call from Minneapolis on the board already. The archive at the website LBC dot co dot UK provides you with a little heads up. Anything else? I kind of know. Anyone? Bueller? We all good? Should we just crack on? And if you don't know what I'm blathering on about, you'll work it out. Lawrence is Anisha Lawrence. Can I apologize for Caroline turning her nose up at your question? Oh, she's a toughie. She really is, mate. You should try working with her every day. What do I try to. She's cut him off. Did you just cut him out? You can't cut off Lawrence. Get Lawrence, you absolute tyrant. Get him back on that. That's outrageous. Tony's inhabitants only question or answer. Hi, James. It's a question. Hello. Yeah, just. Just keep your hair on, mate, because people are getting cut off if they're rude about the producer. I don't like this at all. No, she's very nice, and I haven't got much hair, so. Okay, go on, then. Right. You know when you say. Sometimes when you kind of tone it down and you say, for Pete's sake? You do. If you're diplomatic. And if you're diplomatic. Yeah, exactly. Well, I want to know who Pete is. Now, it might sound a daft question, but somebody must have attributed the name Pete rather than James or Tony or anybody else. Yeah, because we do use that word Pete instead of, for example, God's sake. Yeah, or the even more ruder one that appears in the background. For Pete's sake? Who was Pete, for Pete's sake? Who was he, for Pete's sake? For Pete's sake? Why do you want to know? Is it just because this might be one for Wayne in Basildon, who swallowed brewers Dictionary of frase and fable a few years ago in the hope of upping his mystery rounds of applause. But Caroline doesn't let him on either. I was in a discussion with somebody about Donald Trump, so mentioned his name, and somebody said, for Pete's sake, Tony. And I said, hang on a minute, I'm going to ask James who Pete is. He'll know. James doesn't know. Oh, you don't know? No, it's dragon famous. Pete's, but not many. Peter Purvis. It predates Peter Purvis. Peter Pan. Peter Pan. Peter Pan. St. Peter. Probably old Saint Peter. Right, you're on. I'll find out for you. For Pete's sake. We'll get you an answer. Thank you. Right. He's back. Lawrence, I have no idea what happened there. I've got a sneaking suspicion you might have been censored. Your free speech might have been denied. Good afternoon, James. Hello, Lawrence. Question. Or even get in with a dental answer last week, on the tooth. On a toothbrush question. But I will let that. I don't know if she's familiar enough with the heritage of the program, Lawrence. Never mind. Never mind. Doesn't know what a crucial role you've played over the years is, particularly in the arena of dentistry. A profession from which you're now retired, I recall. Remember? Well, you see, I live in Surrey, James. Yes. And my wife and I heard that we live in the home counties. Yes. What is a home and what. And why are the home counties called? I think that's a lovely question. I've often wondered it myself. Why would that not come straight through on the board, Lawrence? I don't understand. Oh, well, the home counties personally. Oh, good. Good for you. Good for you. If you get a dental question, I'll be on the phone. You're not the only dentist that listens to the program, retired or otherwise. But I don't say this to any of the others. You are my favorite. Bless you. Bless you, Lawrence. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Why home counties? Why, for example, isn't Worcestershire a home county? I wonder if it's something to do with royals having had homes there in the past. Probably not. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number you need, if you can answer that. And who's Pete, for Pete's sake? Saul is in Gateshead. Saul, question or answer? Question. Carry on. If I've got two items the same size but different weights, and I dropped them from a height that both hit the floor at the same time. Yeah. If you haven't turned your radio off. Have you? Yeah, no, I kind of get a little bit. I get a bit silly about that. It really, really annoys me because I know you're told to and then you think you know better than the people that have told you to, and then it messes up the experience for everybody. But I'll try not to be a grumpy pants. What's your question, sir? So I've got two items, same size, different weights. Yeah. And I dropped them from a height. They'll both hit the floor at the same time. Why is that? Well, it's not true. If you're high up enough, I guess they might both reach terminal velocity and hit the floor. I don't think that's true. How did you get off? I've tried it in a room where there's. You don't have the air factor or anything and I've tried it from high school. So if you dropped a slice of toast and a slice of bread, you think they'd hit the floor? Slice of toast covered in jam and a slice of toast with nothing on it at all, you think they'd hit the floor at the same time? Yeah. Okay. And you want to know why? Yeah. For me, no offense. And it's not just because you left the radio on. This is like the definition of a rubbish question. I hear. I hear it's better than nothing. Well, I don't know that I agree with you. Stan is in Houston. Stan, come on, mate, you raise the bar. We got a couple of good ones on the board and then that weird one about dropping stuff. What have you got for me? I want to know how fast a mouse can run. Oh, for goodness sake. What is happening to my mystery hour? No, listen, I've seen them house chase my wife across the kitchen, nearly catch her up. Right? So as in the size. If you had a mouse the size of a car, what sort of size would that go? How fast can that go? I am the british broadcast. What's it called again? Anyway, I won a very important award. This is still the holder of the title and we don't win very important awards or increase our audience by 193% in listening hours over the course of a twelve month period by asking questions about how fast a could run if it was the size of a motor car or a spider. These things, they run at such velocity. Why is it in miles per hour in ratio of size? What is your question? No, what is your question? How fast can a mouse run retrospectively of its size? So it's, it's, it's. It's speed per inch? Yeah, it's size. You know what I mean? Because you've got like say a leopard or something like that and they run at like 80 miles an hour, don't they? But if a mouse was the same size, would it be roughly the same kind of speed? Obviously it's not this. It can't keep up with it because it's so small. So, you know, when you see them shoot, especially like field mice, they run like it looks like. But I don't know what you can. I don't understand what the answer would be. If someone rings up and says 10 miles an hour, James is that it? I'll just give them a round of applause. No, someone's worked it out that a mouse, over a certain distance for the retrospect size. Do you mean like an ant? You're sort of saying. Because they say that if an ant was the size of a human, it'd be able to pick up the Empire State Building or a car because they've got. So is that what you. You're after? Something like that, yeah. Perfect. I see. I just read you like a bookstan. Nobody else listening had the vaguest idea what you were blathering on about. I cut straight to the heart of it like a laser. Hence the reason you got the award. Give him a round of applause. Thank you very much, Stan. How fast can a mouse run? How fast would. If a mouse was the size of a human. That's it, isn't it? If a mouse was the size of a human, would it be faster than Usain bolt? How has my life come to this? Twelve minutes after twelve, Zack is in Minneapolis. Hopefully. Hopefully a quick hop across the pond can see an improvement in performance on this week's mystery. Zack, question or answer? James, you know how to put the pressure on. No pressure at all. Zach, seriously, we're all friends here. Yeah. So what I'd like to know is on tv programs and movies where they have a completely made up language, think like Game of Thrones or something like that. Yes. Is that language a proper language? Do they actually spend the time to create structure and verbs and nouns and everything, or is it all just nonsense? I presume that there's not a catch all answer to that question, so that some of them will be gobbledygook. But I can tell you that J. R. R. Tolkien, the author of the Lord of the Rings and the Hobbit and the Silmarillion and other books, he was, I think his special as a university professor was linguistics, and he constructed incredibly detailed accounts of the languages that he uses in the Lord of the Rings. I don't think George RR Martin, who wrote Game of Thrones, has undertaken any similar sort of work. Yeah. So like you said, I don't know if there will be a catch all answer. Well, I know that it has happened in some cases, but almost certainly some languages in science fiction or in sort of fiction would have been invented. Do you want a specific answer about Game of Thrones? Oh, I guess to put it on the board. Yeah, we'll do that. Yeah, let's do that. And whether or not the languages that the who are not really that. Familiar with Game of Thrones? What sort of characters are we talking about? Oh, well, there's. There's quite a few different languages in the series. Is it so? Yeah, I like that. I like. Would they work? Could you speak because you klingon as well, Zack? I think that's what got me thinking about. Yeah, Klingon is. You can speak Klingon, can't you? Well, not you personally, I don't imagine that would be quite a turn up. In fact, you could actually say whatever you wanted now and claim that you'd been speaking Klingon. I wouldn't possess any of the qualifications necessary to know whether you were telling the truth or not. Neither would I. Just find out there are languages in Game of Thrones specifically because we know, with the example of Tolkien and the Klingons that you can construct a kind of fake language using all the rules of existing languages. I like that. 1214 is the time. Professor Hal is here. Question or answer? Professor Hal, hello. I'd like to talk about the one you were quite grumpy about earlier on, about the radio being turned off or turned on? What, you gave someone a telling off for having their radio. Oh, the dropped items. If you drop two things that are the same shape but different weights, they'll hit the ground at the same time. That's not quite what he asked. He talked about two things of different weights or different masses. But funny enough, you mentioned Galileo about an hour ago or 2 hours ago. Galileo figure rope. Yes, and he. He proved that. That's what I was thinking about. He went up a clock tower and dropped some stuff off it, but I couldn't quite drag it up from the memory banks in time. The leading tower of pizza. Actually, it was, wasn't it, intuitively. Heavy items one thinks should fall faster than light ones. But about two years ago, we had a question about if an ant falls out of a tree, how can it survive? Yes. And it's all down to an experiment called the monkey hunter experiment. And I've got it in front of me because I wrote an article about it. So technically, I didn't look it up. I wrote it, and everything falls at the same rate. But light things appear to fall slower than heavy things because of the density of air. So if you imagine a feather floating down, it'll seem to fall much, but it's resistance that's causing that, not velocity. So if you put a feather and a cannonball in a vacuum, they would fall at the same rate. So the answer to your caller's question is in the absence of air, things would fall at the same rate. Yes, but he was wrong. But when he said it, because he can't have conducted his experiment in a room in the absence of air. Well, I couldn't. I turned my radio off. If I drop two slices of toast from the same height and one is covered in crunchy peanut butter and one has got absolutely nothing on it, they're not going to hit the ground at the same time. Why won't they? I don't know. It was a sort of question. But that sounded like a statement. If you eliminate all the variables, all other factors. Is it centrist per this one of your economist terms? Yeah. All other factors being equal, they will fall at the same rate. Really? Yes. In a vacuum? No, because a piece of toast with peanut butter and a piece of toast without peanut butter will be so similar. You're laughing with me or at me? With you. Always with you. I'm laughing at your patience because I'm so thick at science, it's unbelievable. Anyway, school Science Review, September 2013, issue 95, page 350, page 93. Read all about it. I will. Will you sign my copy? Next time I see you, I'll put it in the melting mate. It's tough. So, round of applause for Professor Howell, actually, because I haven't really been on the ball very well so far today at all, so I forgot to ask you what your qualifications are. I know everybody that listens regularly already knows, but for all the newbies, what are your qualifications? I'm very lucky to be the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Boom. It's 12, 17, 22 minutes after twelve, Mister Errol Misery. Hour after the opener, some questions on the board. Origin of Pete's sake. I think we've probably answered that already in the course of asking the question, but I want it confirmed. And remember, I will ask you what your qualifications are. You don't have to be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, but you just need to tell me how you know that thing. You know, what you just told us. Okay, so you will need to say, even if it is I saw it on the telly last night, or it's the subject of my PhD thesis, it doesn't matter, but it needs to be established. Why are the home counties called the home counties? Yeah, all right. Whoever it is that just tweeted this question with a picture of Alan Partridge attached to it, if a mouse was the size of a human, how fast would it run? And why are you comparing me to Stanley Newston that asked the question. So make the Adam partridge jokes about him. It's a good question. You know when they say if an ant was a human it would be able to pick up a car? It's got such an astonishing ability to lift things. If a mouse was the size of a. Well, all right. I liked it. And the fake languages. Dothraki. Someone's told me in Game of Thrones and I've had a lot of answers to that, so I know there is an answer. But one of the rules I forgot to tell you is that I don't take anything except over the phones between twelve and one during mystery hour. So if you know the answer and some of you on text and tweet provided brilliant answers. But I'm only going to take it over the phone. 24 minutes after twelve is the time. A couple of phone lines for you. Be quick. But turning it over quite quickly. Today, Danny is in Ashford. Danny, question or answer? I've got a question. James, carry on, mate. About a year ago I started noticing that when I eat I'll stick my tongue out before I meet a sandwich. I might touch the sandwich in my tongue before I bite. Yeah. And I've never been conscious of it before. Yesterday my brother in law mentioned that he felt like he was getting old. He started to stick his tongue out before he ate. Yeah. I said to him, what do you mean you're getting old for that? And he reckons Billy Connolly made a joke that it's a sign of age that you stick his tongue out, touch food before you eat it. When you get old. Really? How old are you, daddy? I'm 43. I'm hoping I'm not picking up old fakes yet. Yeah. Do you do this when you do, you make quite a lot of noise when you get up after sitting down for a while? Yeah, I make quite a lot of noise all the time. So you've got some food and you sort of like a cat, you test it with your tongue. I was about to do. I was about to do it, the microphone holder. But Ferrari was slobbering all over this 3 hours ago. So I'm going to stay well away. Might get some marmalade off it. He's not Paddington bear, mate. So you use your tongue like a sort of like an antenna almost, to test, like a guide to the food. It's like. It's sort of like something just to touch the food before it's up to guide it into my mouth. I don't know, I just noticed it about a year ago. That's weird. Have I always done that? So is it an age thing? And your brother in law says it is and that Billy Connolly made some jokes. I'm just not aware of it myself. I'm not. No, I wasn't. I was around. I was around his house yesterday and he goes, well, I'm getting old. I'm touching food in my tongue. It sounds a bit. I'm not going to lie to you, Danny, it sounds a bit gross, mate. What it does is that. Yeah, I don't know. I'm baffled about it now. I'm just hoping it's not like you expect. Go and visit your old granddad in the home and he's licking the food before he eats it. Sticking your tongue out to taste your food before. Is it a thing? Is it a thing? Is it a thing? Is it an old man's thing? What is it? What's going on? We try to have a look at it yesterday and there weren't nothing. No, that's what we're here for. Someone listening might know the answer. Although I'm not personally, I wouldn't necessarily put money on it myself. At this point in proceedings, can we find out whether or not Danny's curious culinary habits are indicative of a wider generational shift, or if he's just a bit of a pleb? John's in Epsom. John, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Sake. For Pete's sake. St Peter. The man who looks after the pearly gates. You would presume so. Qualifications? Sunday school. Yeah, that'll do. So it's a way of swearing without swearing. So instead of saying, for you, say, Pete. Yeah. Any sort of taking a saint's name is regardless of swearing, which is why how I found out about it. Is it? So you said, for Pete's sake, and you got told off. Yes, it could have been. You should have said it could have been worse, miss. I could have said. Yeah, well, I was seven, so I probably wouldn't have done that. No, indeed not. A nice round of applause, though. Is that. Is that the first time your Sunday school education has come in use to you as an adult? To be honest, yes, it is. Better late than never, John. Ah, nicely played. Yeah, of course it is. Makes perfect sense. It's saints preservers. Wouldn't be blasphemy, would it? Or would it? I don't know. Lawrence is in Woodford. Second Lawrence of the hour. Lawrence, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Lawrence. If the Romans spoke Latin. Yes, Spanish that invaded South America, why is it called Latin America, because it is. Latin, in that context, refers to a country whose native language, not native language, but whose prevalent language has been derived from Latin. Right. In Spanish. Like Spanish and Italian. Okay, fair enough. Yeah. Beautifully done. Nice question. I don't know why I looked that up. It was one of my daughter's homework about six months ago, and that is definitely the answer. I can sort of almost see it in front of me. I've got some phone lines free. I don't know why. I think it's partly because Caroline's got the hump and she's been very choosy. So if you've. If you've already tried and failed, don't ring back. You get your head bitten off. But if you haven't, give us a quick ring now on zero. 345-606-0973 there's room for questions. There's actually loads more room than there usually. Is it 28 minutes after twelve? The language of Dothraki in Game of Thrones, particularly in the tv series, is it a real language? We know that Klingon and Tolkien really had complicated languages. But what's going on in Game of Thrones? If a mouse was the size of a human, how fast would it be? Why are the home counties called the home counties? We've done the weights and. Yeah, the tongue. Is it a thing sticking your tongue out to sort of test your food as you get older? Billy is on the Isle of Wight. Billy, question or answer? Oh, hello. Good afternoon, James. It is a question for me today. Yeah, I'm hoping it'd be a bit more of an interesting one. I've always been reading a newspaper thing. They've got those circle sort of colors at the bottom, like really small circles. Sometimes they're squares, but I've always wondered what they're for and what their purpose is. I don't know what you're talking about. I believe you, but I've got. I've got a bunch of papers in front of me. I presume it's a printing calibration measure, isn't it, or something? Well, see, I was wondering this. I've got. I don't know if you've got the eye in front of you, but I've got the eye. If you turn to the sports page. I haven't got it with me. I'm not sure. This is. Not sure this is working as a radio feature. The thing is, it's green. Yeah, the green. The sports section is green and there isn't any green on, on that, you know, on, on the squares or on the circles? It's really hard to explain, but I'm telling me. Interesting. All right, so, I mean, if I can't see it, so someone listening will know. But it's almost certainly a printing thing. Linked to printing. Yes. But you need to know more than that. So, like, colored. Little colored. How big are they? They're really small. I mean, they're basically. I think you're on the right lines because it's in terms of how big are they that they're about, I don't know, like, smaller than your little fingernail. Not even. Not even this. Not even the size of your finger. And it's one color. It's like. So you've got little patches of color on pages. Yes. I mean, on the eye, they're squares, but they could be circle and. Yeah. You know, they sort of. They tend to be at the bottom of the page. I'll see what I can do. I got a copy of the eye. That might be a start. And then I'll be able to describe it with a little bit more detail. I shall find out for you. How's life on the Isle of Wight, Billy? Yes. No, it's going. It's going okay. I'm trying to. I'm trying to enjoy the weather, but, no, obviously, I'm. Yes, I had one of the most frightening, frightening experiences of my life on the Isle of Wight. What's those cliffs called where they're all multi colored? What? You know, the ones. I mean, the multicolored cliffs on the Isle of Wight. I don't know what you're referring to. On the Isle of Wight, there's multicolored cliffs. How long have you lived there? Oh, yeah. Yeah. You're talking about. Is that Alan Bay? Yeah. Then you can buy the sand in little test tubes all multicolored. Is he laughing at me? Is he. Isle of White. Anyway, there's a chairlift there. Whoo. Seriously, it's 1231. Simon Conway's here with it is 1234. You are listening to mystery app on LBC with me, James O'Brien. Questions that still need answers. Why are the home counties called the home counties? How fast are. Stan, you really stitched me up today, mate. How fast could a mouse run if it was the size of a human? I really like that question at the outside at the start, at the outset, but now it's got that Alan Partridge tweet attached to it in my subconscious, and I can't say it without sort of feeling a bit like Alan partridge. Yeah. The next question doesn't really help either. Is the language in Game of Thrones real or fake? Zero. 345-606-0973 what was the fellow's name with the tongue? I've forgotten his name. That's odd. That's a sign of my age. Anyway, what he does, he sticks his tongue out a bit when he's about to try his food and he's wondering if that's a sign of age. I like that question. I like signs of age that I don't seem to have adopted yet. Zero. 345-606-0973 and that's question from Billy on the Isle of white about colors on the. On the old newspapers. Danny with the tongue, wasn't it? Yeah. Well done. 1235. Chris is in. Tooting question or answered. Chris. Hello, James. Hello, Chris. Carry on. Um, is it possible to get 100 pure water? Yes. I don't believe you. Because it's the universal solvent. Whatever you put it in, it will pick up some. Some kind of chemical or. You think so? Yes, I do. Okay. What about get a vacuum and get some hydrogen and get some oxygen and sort of fire them at each other in a vacuum and you'll get water also, surely, if you just boil it, it's pure, isn't it? And the steam that comes. No, no, it's got all sorts of stuff in it. It's got minerals and. Minerals. Don't want minerals in my water. Yeah, this fluoride and chlorine and that's tap water. But yeah, some of those gases were so completely pure water. You just need to get two particles of hydrogen and one of oxygen. But how long would it look? How long would it be that pure? Oh, that's not what you asked, missus. As soon as you put it in something, it'll pick up a. It'll pick up a penguin atom of something or other. Okay, h two o. How hard is it? I mean, you can create it, but can you keep it? That's what you want to know. Can you actually get a bottle of pure water? Purest water? Yeah. I was talking to a window cleaner yesterday. Good grief. And he says he uses 100% pure water, and I just don't believe him. He was yanking your chain. Yeah, wasn't he? Yeah. Was this part of his marketing spiel? I've googled it and I can't find the answer. Anyway, completely pure water. Nothing else in it. Not the sniff of a mineral or a fluoride or anything. Yeah. All right, you're on. I like it, but I'm pretty confident that the window cleaner doesn't use 100% pure water. He might have been making a different point. Simon is in Littlehampton. Simon, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. Got an answer for you. Carry on, mate. It's the printing one or the newspaper marks, the sheet of the paper. They are called registration marks and they are all color. Printing is known as four color printings. You've got cyan, magenta, yellow and black. So they will be the four colors that make up any printing. And I was sort of on hold, so I didn't quite hear the majority of his question, but he said something about, why is the page he was looking at had a photo that, let's say, didn't have any red in it. Yeah, but the red marks will still be there because the dot that all the color, all the four color is made up of, every photo is made up of a density of dots. So if a red shirt is in the photo, the dot on the mid. On the red on the magenta will be very heavy. Got you. And if there's some. If there's a white shirt or let's say, a yellow shirt, the red dot there would be almost non existent, or it would be very faint. So, of course, you've got variances of, I don't know, blue. Yeah, I got it. What are your qualifications? Litho printing. When I left school in 1981, and I left that industry in 2002 as a lifo printer. Great work. And it's only this. What do you mean? Not the other one, the r one. No chance you get a Ray Liotta for having worked as a printer once. I mean, come on, how much info do you want? That is the nearest I have come to swearing on the program in a very long time, pal. I'm going to limit myself to a. For Pete's sake. You don't get a Rayleigh otter because you once worked as a printer. Listen, that is extreme knowledge. It's not extreme knowledge. You get a ray Liotta if. What happened yesterday, I was talking about dairy farming and the first caller was a dairy farmer. So if I built the machine, you'd be impressed if you'd invented it. Oh, okay. I suppose that really. I'm not handing out them like confetti. I've already cheapened the round of applause over the years through amateurism. Thank you, Simon. And also, it's quite a comeback a minute. That's quite ungrateful. I gave you a round of applause. You like my youngest? Give her a biscuit. She just asked for another one. No, I'm happy to take it, trust me. All right. If I consider it taken? Okay, carry on. 1240 is the time. Alex is in Guilford. Alex, question ready? Question or answer? Alex. Come on, then. Reverse osmosis. Oh, come on, Axel. Oh, that's one of my favorite things ever. Because you missed it. It was Alex who said, come on, Axel. It wasn't me. You say what was. What happened to the osmosis alarm? Why wasn't it working? He's sacking James. He paid the intro to memory to mystery hour last week when you needed the. I know. He leant on the wrong button. The worst thing was when we had the basically alarm a few years ago. Do you remember that? Yeah. Relatively recent, isn't. We used to have a basically alarm. If anyone said the word basically, we used to play a siren. And I had a new producer who was quite nervous, and someone was in the middle of a really, really harrowing and difficult story, and they'd obviously been told that James will get quite cross if you don't press the basically alarm. If ever a caller says basically, and halfway through this really heartbreaking story, poor woman said basically, and the new producer hit the button, and there's the basic alarm went off in the middle of a real sort of tissue jerker of a tail. Axel's defended himself quite rightly and said he doesn't actually know that. You're correct. And if you misuse osmosis on the program, then the alarm isn't triggered. So that's fair enough. Back to you, Alex. Back to you. So the lady asked about pure water. Yes. So Justin's osmosis is like the process of something pure going to not so pure. Reverse osmosis? The opposite. You could create pure water by doing that? Yes. It goes through a semi permeable membrane at a pressure, and it rejects the unpure water and only the pure water. Is that right? It wouldn't take any of the impurities with it. You can just burn hydrogen as well. Of course, that's the other way to make pure water in the short term. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm a window cleaner, and that's how we make the water. To clean the water, to clean the windows. It takes out all the minerals and all the. True. So the window cleaner, who told her. Who told her that it was. You use special water to clean windows with? Yes. So you know when you're cleaning your, your water in your garden baskets at home? Well, yeah, theoretically. Not Steve Allen. Yeah. Well, anyway, so the water that's left on always dries. Oh, yeah, of course it does. It might leave behind a residue. Yeah. So that's all the minerals and lime scale. So if you take that all out through a process of reverse osmosis, you get through water. It's about fabric. I give up, honestly. Have we met? Are you the Alex that came to see me when I was flogging the big issue in the Covenant in Covent Garden? No, because that's weird. There's another Alex who's a window cleaner in Surrey who came to buy a big issue off me when I was flogging the big issue in Covent Garden a couple of years ago. How weird is that? Round of applause. Well done, mate. There you go. Seriously. 1243. I'm fine with that. Axel, mate, don't worry, because it's been a long, long time. Surprised it still works. Was it very rusty? Very, very, very rusty. Morris is in Hendon. Question or answer, Maurice? It's a question, James. Yes. Aerosol cans. Oh, yeah. You know, you get to the bottom of them and you're always giving them a really violent shake to try and get a little bit more at the bottom. Does that make any difference? I mean, is there any reason for shaking it or is it just habit? I like that. It's quite a nice question. So you down to your last bit of deodorant and you press the top and nothing comes out. You give it a shake and then press the top and sometimes it comes out more. You turn it upside down. Is there any reason we do that? Yeah, you're on. All right. Why do you want to know? It's quite an odd question, though. I like it, don't get me wrong. Why do I want to when I'm doing it weirdly, I'm thinking mystery hour. Yeah. Am I wasting my time here? Is it some sort of sort of enhanced superstition type thing? I like that question. Shaking the old can. Does it? Does it actually sort of, I don't know, agitate the stuff left in the tin? Danny's tongue. The mystery of Danny's tongue. It's like a tale of the unexpected. When Danny is eating an apple, for example, or a sandwich, he has noticed in recent years that he started sticking his tongue out to sort of test the food before he has an actual bite. And we need to know whether or not that is quite commonplace or widespread. Zero 345-606-0973 is the language of, for example, Dothraki in Game of Thrones a real language? Is it? I reckon it is. But why can't. I've had loads of answers via text. Why won't anyone ring in? Oh, three. It's because you're frightened to Caroline. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need for that. And I thought this would have been answered really quickly. How fast would a mouse run if it was the size of a human? Luke is in Basingstar. I'll come to him after the travel news. We've also still got the home counties question on the board. Have we not even done that yet? So all of those need answers. If you can answer any of them, ring in now. All right, quick. It's 1245. It's 1249. I ran through the questions that still need answers. I could possibly squeeze in a couple more if you're very quick. But I do like to complete my sheet by 01:00. Home counties. How fast could a mouse run if it was the size of a human? Languages in Game of Thrones sticking your tongue out to taste your food. Had a couple of calls from people. Danny, if you're listening. Well, you better be, mate, because I'm trying to get an answer to your question. A couple of calls from people saying they do it too, but no guidance yet on whether or not it is a sign of encroaching decrepitude. We've done that one and shaking the old can. There's a bit of dispute over the water question, but I think we got there in the end. If you want to rate really pure water, burn some hydrogen, but I don't know how long it would take for that water, resulting water, to become impure. The answer we got off Alex and Guildford, who works as a window cleaner, is that they employ a process called reverse osmosis to purify water. It probably doesn't end up, like, completely h two o with nothing else in it. But that's why the window cleaner who asked, who told our questioner the original line was, was actually not yanking her chain or indeed swinging the proverbial lead. Luke is in Basingstoke. Question or answer, Luke? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on, mate. So, Dothraki language. Dothraki, yes. In the books, he's only got a couple of words, a few phrases here and there, right? Never really built on it at all. But for the series, they got a chap, I think his name was David Peterson. He's a linguist, and he basically, from the small little bits they had in the books, he constructed the language for the series because. Because it has to have some sort of consistency to it, otherwise the actors would really struggle, basically. Yeah. Because it's almost not nonsensical in the books. But sure, if the Dofraki were having a chat and they were around, you wouldn't need to write down what they were saying. Whereas in the series, something has to be said. Of course. I love it. Yeah. Qualifications? Oh, nothing much of. Just I've read the books front to back. Love the series. I get involved in the forums and I was. I wanted to find out myself. So what do you mean? Nothing much? That's. That's incredible. Round of qualifications. You knew the name of the bloke that flipping invented the language. Well, I'll try. Thank you very much. Great work. Round of applause for Luke. No, thank you. I tell you, my favourite moment in a long time was old Alex there saying, come on, Axel. Because it was my internal voice. It was like hearing my own internal voice from the other end of the phone line. It's the most bizarre thing. I'm literally on the brink of saying, come on, Axel. I'm doing it with my eyes. I'm trying to communicate with him. And then Alex says it. Oh, a lovely show today. Thank you, Luke. I say, a lovely show. I did get through. Someone did threaten to punch me earlier, but I like to think that we've made progress. We've come out of those dark times and we're heading for the sunny uplands. Nick is in Croydon. Nick, question or answer? Hello, James. It's home. Home counties. The answer. Go on, then, to it. It comes from the army and Navy personnel coming home from. From the various world tours and european tours, particularly during the 18th and 19th centuries. Are you sure? Yes. It's in the footnotes to both the Flashman books. George MacDonald Fraser. I learned a lot of history from them. I've learned a lot of history from them. Flashman books. I love it because you kind of smuggle in knowledge. They smuggle it very strong on the sort of Khyber path there. Also. It's also in the naval books, the Aubrey matterin naval books. Your namesake. Patrick O'Brien. Namesake. With it. With a slightly different, differently spelt surname. Yes. And they're also extremely good. Yeah. I mean, because you've cited such impressive sources, I'm probably going to give you a round of applause. A lot of people were getting in touch to say that they're just the nearest counties to London. No, the personnel were coming home. They also would have needed to live in those counties, albeit their natural homes may have been all over the country. The service, the navy particularly, would have needed to have places to live so that they could embark quickly when needed. Round of applause. Nicely done. Round of applause for Nick. I like that. And if you got it from George McDonald Fraser and Patrick O'Brien. And I saw George MacDonald Fraser make a speech at the hay literary festival a few years ago. Oh, that often happens with my anecdotes. Iman is in lightwater. Iman, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why is the leap day in February? Why did we choose to have it in that month and not in any other months? How old are you, Iman? 1414. Cool. I'm just checking. I know the answer to this one, but I think I do. And the short answer is, because it's the shortest month. So if you need to stick an extra day somewhere, it makes more sense to stick it on the shortest month. Okay. Doesn't it? Now, you say, why is it the shortest month? James? Say that. Yeah. Why is it the shortest month? Well, it's funny you asked me that, imam, because I believe. I believe that it goes back to ancient Rome. And one of the emperors wanted to add extra days to certain months to mark August, for example, Augustus Caesar. So he nicked a day off February and stuck it on August. Okay. Oh, I thought you'd be a bit more impressed. I think July as well, maybe. I am impressed. You don't sound very impressed. Oh, I'm very sorry. Can I tell you again and you'll sound a bit more impressed? Okay. All right. So ask me again. Well, why is. Why is February the shortest month? James? Why is February the. The shortest month? Well, it's funny you should ask me that, Iman. I believe it has something to do with. With a roman emperor or two being very keen to. To establish their own importance by having a month named after them with more days in it than other months. So, Augustus season, Nick, today or February and stuck it on August. That sounds very interesting. Thank you. Yeah. You're clearly a very, very bright young person. Let's share a round of applause. Thank you very much indeed. Get more questions during the school holidays. Then my kids get cross with me for not letting them on. 1255 is the time. Jonathan's in Guilford. Jonathan, question or answer? It's an answer, but it says in conflict with the last reply about the home county. Oh, no. Stewards inquiry at 1250. 612 56. Mate, this is Tony gone. I'll be fast. I'll be. What have you got? I understand it to be to do with judges circuits when they were going around doing the. Presiding over the assize courts and the London circuit was around the home counties. Apologies to those north of the what for gap, but London being home, that's why they were called the home counties. I won't fight him over it. Patrick O'Brien's books are brilliant. I agree with him on that. They are brilliant. I remember it from there. But as I understand it, it's the judges circuits and the home counties were the home. It's the same answer, it's just a different profession. You're saying it's home to the judges, they're saying it's home to the soldiers. I'll give you a round of applause as well, but I suspect it might be one of those things that doesn't have a definitive answer. There we go. Louise is in Warrington. Question or answer? Louise. Whoa, whoa, whoa. It's a terrible phone line. It's like we're in a car with the windows open, flying past lamp post. I'll come back to you in a second. Sandy's in Billings. Sandy, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. How fast does mouse run? If it's the size of a human? Yeah, hang on. Sheila. Sheila Fogarty's just come in. Sometimes I think she doesn't appreciate the intellectual rigor of this program. Um, hello? See that? What's going on? Sandy's about to explain how fast a mouse could run if it was the size of a human being. I was once broadcasting when a mouse ran across my hand. I remember that famous moment. Carry on, Sandy. Well, it depends on size. My son looked this up years ago, about ten or twelve years ago, when he had his first pet, which was a mouse, watching it run around the wheel. And he came back after about 20 minutes and had calculated with his calculator that I would be able to run if it was my height. I'd be able to be able to run 150 miles an hour. And if it was his height, about 120. How did he work it out, do you know? He looked up. As far as I'm aware, he looked up the size of a mouse, how fast the mouse runs and then calculate and worked out. Bright lad you got there, Sandy. I'll tell you what, he was very bright. I wrote a letter to NatWest bank when I was closing my account once and because they were useless, and I did say that he did a lot of work for me, he was very good at it and maybe he could have a job in January. Give him a round of applause. Last word to Louise in Warrington. Shaking cans. Louise. Does it free up any content? James, can you hear me? Okay, that's brilliant. Carry on. Oh, lovely. Sorry. And, well, hopefully I've got an answer for you. And I hope you're not going to be too mean to me, because it's the first time I've ever phoned. I promise not to be. But we are now Sheila Fergus time, so I do need to hurry you up a tiny bit. Okay? Right, well, quickly, when you get to the last part of the contents of your canister, they will settle on the bottom of your canister. And your compressor that's within there, needs to expel those particles. So the only way you can get them to the top of the canister is to give it a shake. So it completely works? So it does. It does work. What are your qualifications, Louise? I work with fire extinguishers. I'm a fire extinguisher engineer. So when. When you extinguish a fire, you want to expel all of the content? So we employ a different method, actually. Are you thinking what I'm thinking? I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Oh, my goodness. They will come. Rayla, is it right? They close a play. Well played indeed. 1259 is the time. Dirty round of applause. Here's Sheila Fogarty. That's down corner as well. Amazing, isn't it? Thanks very much, James, from 350 years since homosexuality was decriminalized.