Is handwriting inherited?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Five minutes after twelve is the time. I'm going to top and tail this hour with a quick nod back to the last hour if you do or, you know, people who are susceptible to the anti woke clap trap that's so popular at the moment. That was a lovely hour to demonstrate. Nothing to be frightened about or angry about as we try to make the world a better place and we talk to people with very different experiences and try to recognize that those experiences are as valuable and as important as the more common experiences that most of us have had. So thank you to all of the callers, culminating in the magnificent somalia at the end for making that such a fascinating hour of radio. And we will end mystery hour a little early this week as well because I want Theo Ashworth to join us in order to tell us what is and perhaps what is not in the announcement that Rishi Sunak is due to make in about 25 30 minutes time with regard to the U turn on the Windpool tax and possibly on the grant that was alone, but will now hopefully be a grant again. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Do you need a quick heads up on what it is? I may as well, yeah. People ring in with a question and then people ring in with an answer and if they get the correct answer, they get a round of applause. And if their qualifications for providing that correct answer are incredibly apposite, they get a Ray Liotta, which is the highest accolade you can receive on british radio. It means that if there's a question about toasters and you invented the toaster, then you will get a ray Liotta. That's it, really. It's. It's pretty. It's pretty chocka at the minute. So a little bit of quality control, no doubt. If you just. Judicious use of redial is my advice if you want to get through. And the best contribution of the week, or rather my favorite contribution of the week, which is entirely subjective, will receive a brand new edition of the mystery hour board game, which is available if you're not lucky enough to win today. It's available from Mysteryhour dot co dot UK and. And also in shops including John Lewis. It's brilliant. I don't plug it enough, do I? Only ever plug it on Thursdays. I should be plugging it every day. I get so much. You know what my ego's like, right? So if I'm at a book signing now and I've got one coming up in Lewis and one coming up in Dorky. And then near the end of the year I'm in bewdly, which is the next town along from Kidderminster, so that's gonna be a home fixture. If people come up to me at the book signings to talk to me about how much they love the board game, I get a bit sniffy cause I didn't have much to do with the board game. I say, you're at my book signing, talk to me about how good the book is. Taught me how good the board game is. But obviously I love the fact that people love the board game. And as I say, you can get your own copy at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK comma or by submitting the best question of the day. Best question or answer of the day. Oh, look at that. Isn't it a small world? I mentioned Kidderminster and who should be first up on mystery hour but Greg in Kidderminster? Great. Question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. I would like to know. It may have been asked before and if so, I apologize. However, I would like to know why it is that if you leave the top off the biscuit tin and return to it a couple of days later, your crisp biscuits have gone soft. But if you play the same trick with a cupcake, for instance, it will have gone hard. Yes. So why is. Why is it that one goes soft and the other goes hard? Equally annoying that they are, and vice versa. I think we have had this before. I imagine you might well have. There is no, I can't. Mate. That's age, isn't it? That's the way. That's the direction of traffic. And I think it may even be one that features in the board game, which means that someone is now possible to ring in and offer up as their qualifications the fact that they've played the board game. What I'm doing now, Greg, I don't know how familiar you are with this feature on the program. I'm now sort of waffling a bit in the hope that the answer will present itself to me, because it does sometimes happen that mid waffle I'll suddenly remember it's to do with being, you know, like you talk about pastry being short. No, I've got nothing. I shall find out for you, Greg. Whereabouts in kiddie are you? Wolverley. Oh, are you? Very nice. Near the. Near the canal, near the lock. Just. The locks are local. The arboretum is our next door neighbor. Oh, you lucky man. Really? Yeah. Oh, yeah. The lock's a nice pub, especially in summer, obviously. It's wonderful. Thank you, Greg. A little bit of homesickness there for me. Must phone mum after the program. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. Katie's in Twickenham. Katie, question or answer? It's a question, Jane. Carry on, Katie. So when you move house, how is it that cats know where the new house is? Like, they can find their ways home. Yeah, but not. I mean, how do they know where the old house is? You might as well. How do they know where any house is? Yeah, so the old house. I mean, the reason being my mum lives on an island in the Bahamas and she had a friend that moved. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Slow down a minute. What sort of a billionaire plutocrat are you? You know, I actually hate when that comes up in conversation because it makes us sound like we came from money, but it was actually from quite a tragic survey. No, it's all right. All right. At least you're used to it. I'm not so I'm embarrassed. I am now. Carry on. It's all right. But, yeah. Her friend moved house and she had wild cats and they were very much her cats that never came in the house. They moved about a mile and a half down the island and a few days after moving, the cats reappeared at the old house and they would have had to have gone over the beach, over rocky terrain, like through bush. And I just have always wondered how these mystical creatures managed to find their way home. Hang on, I'm confused. So, I mean, they go home because that's where they get fed. Yeah, but if they're in the new house, which is a mile and a half away. A mile and a half? Isn't that far for a cat. But is it? But how would they know? Same way they knew before. It doesn't matter that they've gone to a new house. Think about how far they'd gone away from the old house when they were on their travels and then they still managed to go home. See, I'm not convinced about that, because if you move, like they always try and find their way home. They don't? No, you see, you keep them in the house for a month. When you move house, you get a litter tray and you get. We've just been over this. You put them in the litter tray, keep the litter tray in the house until they're used to it, and then when they go out, they'll come back again. I'm not sure. I just don't understand how they've managed, how they knew where the old house was and how they managed to navigate. They didn't know where they are. That's the only house they've ever known. But they've moved house and they're in the new house. Yeah, but they don't come home to the new house. They don't come home to the new house. Did your mum scoop them up and take them to your mum's friend? Scoop them up and take them to the new house? Yes. Right. So it's not their new house yet, is it? Yeah, but still, how did they know the local, how to get from that new location to the old location? How did they ever know how to get home ever? Well, then that's another question altogether. It's exactly the same question, Katie. How do I say, how does a cat know how to get home? That's what you're asking? Well, yeah. No, not really. I think I positioned the question very well. No, I think you have. I think the question is built on a fundamental misconception that there's a difference between. Look. Right. Imagine you'd never moved. I've got it now. Here you go. Sit down, Katie, I'm coming in. Here is the imagine that your mum's friend had never moved house. Right? Right. You got that? Hold that in your head. Right? Now, your mum's friend scoops up the cats, puts them in a box, drives a mile and a half away, pulls over in a lay by, lets them out. Where they gonna go? Well, they're gonna, they're gonna try and get their way home. But how do they know? Well, what do you mean? I just think cats are more magical than you. This is what this is about is that you want some sort of mystical, magical answer to the question. An ideal, solely in fact on this program, as you should know by now. All right, you're on the list. How do cats get. So, what's a cats navigation system? Okay, that sounds less flowery than I thought, but yes, on a very separate note, I couldn't leave without saying thank you so much for keeping us safe the last five years. And also, I'd love to buy your Pinterestiere, Nevada, one day when you're next to the express tavern. I tell you what, you're on. Absolutely not. Only my favorite pint, one of my favorite pubs. I do. I will take you up on that. Thank you. I always get a little bit embarrassed when people say lovely things like that. 14 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC a lot of you saying, remember to put a bit of butter on the cat's paws. I don't know if you've heard that. I don't know how it works, but it does work. It makes them less likely to go too far away. They come home quicker and they just get used to the. To the new home. Matt's in reading. Matt, question or answer? Oh, hello. Please carry on. Sorry, I was taken by surprise listening to the cats. Buttering cats. I can imagine. I can imagine. That's going to be quite tricky, pinning them down. God. So this is. I am phoning up about moles on your body, not mold under the ground. Brilliant timing. About three years ago, we were on holiday in Lime Regis. We're going again next week. And my mum was sat there saying, how come you're more moly than your brothers? Yes. And I didn't know. And then I've noticed on my children, they are getting more moly as they get older. Oh, dear. I mean, you know, it's no biggie, is it? Why do you. Why do some people have more moles than others? And where they come from, it's melatonin. It must be made. It's the stuff that makes you go brown in the sunshine, isn't it? It's just in. I imagine it's just deposited. I don't know why I'm trying to answer this question. I haven't got a clue. Well, you might get there. Moles, where do moles come from? Moles, where do moles come from? On your skin? And the answer to that will probably entail the answer to the question of, why do some of us have more than others? And do they grow as you get older? And, you know, they're pretty hidden under the skin. You know that you get more as you get older, don't you? I think so, yeah. Most my kids are, yeah. But also you. Have you not got more than you had when you were young? I must update the spreadsheet. It's been a while. Well, let me know. Let me know when you've done that. I'm going to have to apologize now to Keith. When I was talking to Katie about cats and I said cat navigation system, he said something in my ear and he had that look on his face that generally conveys the belief that he said something truly hilarious. And I thought it was rubbish. I thought he said catnap. So I said, what's a cat? And obviously, judging by the hundreds of people that have sent exactly the same joke into my inbox, what you actually said was Catnav. Cat nav, as in, how'd the cats find their way home? Answered cat nav, which is a good joke and is funny and was worthy of your rather. Um. Please. But yeah, well, no, hang on, I don't know if it was that worthy, because hundreds of other people made exactly the same joke, including Andrew and Barnsley, who's at the top of my list. That means now Stephen Barth has got it as well. I'm not going to be able to read out any text between now and the end of the program because so many of them are going to contain the word catnav. Elliot and Newcastle, that's just dropped in again. Catnavs. Thousands of them. It's 1216 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 19 minutes after twelve. If you want to see Rishi Sunak's statement live, you can do so on the global player app. You can watch it as well as listen to it. And if you would rather listen to it than listen to Mistry hour, then our sister station, LBC News, I'm sure, will be carrying it at the moment as well. I sounded like a proper ground up radio presenter then, didn't I? 19 minutes after twelve. Is the time question still in? Well, I'll run through it shortly in the meantime, because Professor Hal is here and that suggests to me there's an answer on the way. Professor Hal in Brighton. Question or answer? Hello, James. This is one of my fantasy mystery arc questions. I've always hoped this is going to come up because there's lots and lots of narrative behind it. Cakes and biscuits, science. Cakes and biscuits, biscuits and cakes. And it all comes down, as you rightly said, to the shortening. How fatty is it? Because oil and water doesn't mix. Fats and water don't mix. So the more fat you have, the more likely you are to repel water and not attract it. So cakes dry out, they lose water, but they don't suck it in from the environmental moisture. Biscuits, on the other hand, have lots more sugar and lots less fat in them and therefore they will absorb water from them, from the air around them and become quite soft. And why this is important is Jaffa Cakes. There was a big punch up at a VAT tribunal in 1991, which I teach about to my students, because vats is payable on chocolate covered biscuits but not chocolate covered cakes. And Vat had been paid all this time. And so one of the tests that was done was, does a Jaffa cake dry out when it's left out or does it not? And the answer is, of course it does. In fact, they're quite nice if they're left out for more time. Jaffa cakes are indeed cakes, and there was a huge refund of fat made on that basis. Wow. Is that. Does that involve the passage of water through a semi permeable membrane? Oh, you mean osmosis? Yeah. No. Oh, no, there's no semipermeable membrane, it just sucks it through the air. But if you. If you really want to, we can talk about colloids and stuff, so we can give you either way, next time. Another round of applause for Professor Hal. That was brilliant. How many people get that, do you think? Hal? The osmosis? I think it's so ongoing, it's possible, but I've got 1.4 million listeners now. I had about eight when we started doing that, and then we forgot about it for years, so I don't know how I love it. You should put a reminder out there. I'm not going to. I'm not going to explain. I'm not going to explain. I'm just going to create some mystique on the radio, mate. Okay. Have a lovely, lovely day, James. Have you, Professor Haldeck? Oh, I didn't ask him his qualifications. Shall I tell them or shall you? I'm delighted. I'm paid to do my hobby, which is to be professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. There we go. Something else we've got in common. I am paid to do my hobby, which is shouting my mouth off about any subject under the sun for several hours a day. Miles is in Breadhurst. Miles. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Thank you for having me, James. You're very welcome. Yes. I've been waiting for years to ask this question and I haven't looked it up. What is. What is the world's contingency plan? If we're visited by aliens? Like extraterrestrial life, would the world have a plan? Or would it be region by region, country by country, or possibly, I don't know, council by council? So, I mean, are there any contingency plans? Is probably the way to ask the question, isn't it? Well, that would have been two questions and I wanted to know, are there any? And if so, what are they? Oh, okay. Okay. Well, if you say, what are the contingency plans, then if there aren't any, that would be an answer to the question, wouldn't it? That would be an answer. So we stick with the original. So what are the contingency what contingency plans are in place in the event of an alien visit? Yeah. Wow. What do you. What would you say, yes or no in terms of whether they exist or not? I think they exist. It's too big of a universe not to. Not aliens. Not aliens, mate. They're contingency plans. Oh. So I want to know what they are. What was the plan? Do you think they exist? Not the aliens, the contingency plans. Miles. Sorry. I do think they exist, yeah. I'd like to say they are. Well, same. Now. I know you've now raised it. It'd be funny if it was really, like low region by region and quite small, like parish councils had different contingency plans. You say, take me to your leader and they take you to sort of Brian Blenkinsopp, who's head of the local. Head of the local parish castle, or they take you to the head of the local w. Take me to your leader. I don't know. I think that's quite amusing. Why do you keep saying moles that way? I think I'm missing an in joke. You won't be the only one. I say moles in the way that the word holes is said on the hunky dory album by David Bowie. But I appreciate doing it with holes is esoteric enough without extending it to moles and expecting anybody else to understand what is going on. 24 minutes after twelve is the time Jake's in Croydon. Jake, question or answer? I've got a question. Please, Jake. Carry on, Jake. So why do bubbles not pop on mirrors? Pardon? I know. I was just as perplexed. Well, as in. As in children's blowing bubbles and then they hit a mirror. They don't pop. Yeah. What do they do? They just bob off and then find somewhere else to go and pop themselves. Is this true? I mean, what, really? All of them? I mean, yeah, we did. We did a fair test. We did a whole tube of them and each bubble just bounced off and hit us. Or the couch. And then it would pop if it hit you. Or is it. What about walls? Was it. Were they all right with walls? It might have something to do with the smoothness. Might be the smoothness of the mirror, Jake, you know, because it's smoother than a wall, isn't it? A wall is going to be plastered and painted. It's going to have a texture on it, whereas a mirror. What about windows? Did you try windows? No, I didn't, actually. It's a good question. I think they might have seen themselves and got a bit scared. All right. I mean, working on the generous premise that what you're describing is scientifically sound, I will add to the question, why don't bubbles burst on mirrors? Yeah. Thank you. No, thank you, Jake. We shall do our best to find out for you and yours. Jan's in Bratislava in Slovakia. Jan, question or answer? Hi, James. Is a question. Carry on. How did clapping became the most important way of showing appreciation for a performance? I was at Dualipas gig in Vienna on Monday. Oh, yes. And I was clapping and I was thinking, like, why do we clap? To show. No, I've ruined it for you now. Mystery hours. Ruined it. Your simple enjoyment of a dua lipa gig has been ruined by the thought of a funny thought entering your head and you thinking, oh, I must ask. Mystery hour. I must. I love it. I've got some good news and some bad news for you. Go ahead. The good news is, I will put your question on the board, as you would expect, because it's a very good question. The bad news is that you are, I think, according to the terms and conditions at LBC dot co dot UK comma, I don't think you're eligible to win the mystery hour board game by dint of not being in the United Kingdom. You can send it to a friend of mine. Thank you, Jack. 26 minutes after twelve. We have the cleverest contributors, don't we, on this program? This is getting ridiculous. Paul is also in Kidderminster. I wonder, Paul, do you reckon one day I might be able to do a whole show consisting entirely of contributors from Kidderminster? I think he probably could actually do. How good would that show be? I mean, my goodness, my goodness. Question or answer? Question. Yes. Okay, so you've got a frying pan. You put oil in the frying pan. If you left that frying pan, eventually it would spit and it would get hot and it would smoke. Yeah, but if you put a sausage in there and a piece of bacon, it doesn't. It doesn't sit on the fire. So how does the oil know that there's food in the pan? What do you. What actually, if you left it. You mean if you get an empty. I understand all the words that you used, Paul. I don't need any. I don't need. I'm just a bit confused about the question. So you've got a pan of fat, a pan of oil, and it's hot. And if you. I mean. But it will spit when you put a sausage in it. Still. It doesn't. Oh, it will spit. It'll spit. You think that if it's got food in it, it won't actually catch fire? Yeah. Ever? Yeah. I don't know about ever, but if you leave a pan on and you walk away for a couple of minutes, the kitchen's full of smoke, spitting, and there's, you know, is it that you need a wet. Oh, I see. So why. Well, isn't that just because the food lowers the temperature of the fat? You're putting in a sausage and a piece of bacon that's, at the very least, at room temperature, probably refrigerated. So it lowers the temperature of the fat for a while. Quite a long while. Long enough to cook it, because it's not going to be as fat as it was hot as it was before until. Until the sausage is as hot as the fat when the cooking is completed. So if you left it for 20 minutes, it would be just as bad as if you'd never put the food in in the first place, wouldn't it? Maybe. Maybe. I don't know how a sausage or a piece of bacon can lower the temperature of the fat unless it's got a lot of water content by being less hot than the fat. Okay. It's like you getting into the bath, Paul. The minute you get into the bath, the temperature of the bath starts falling because of your body absorbing some of the heat from the bath into your body. I don't know. Listen, mate, it's quite often when I get on my high horse like this, I'm the one that ends up sounding stupid, because the question is actually quite solid and I'm just too stupid to understand it, but I don't know that. I mean, a chip fan can catch. Let's pick a chip pan. Yeah. A chip pan will catch fire whether it's got chips in it or not. It's just going to take longer to catch fire when it's got chips in it from a standing start. Okay. Okay. Yeah, yeah. So it's not that it won't catch fire. All right, here you go. Does the. What's the relationship between food? Well, no. Does. If you leave a pan and it's got a sausage in it, does that mean it will never catch fire? Is that the question? No, sort of. Not really, but no. I just think if you left an empty pan, the room would full of smoke and it will start to catch fire eventually. Yeah. Why would that happen less quickly if it had a sausage in it? That's right. That's pretty much it. I like it. Whereabouts and kiddie are you I'm in Wolverley too. Do you know? Do you know? Was it Greg? Greg? I don't know Greg. No, I literally around the corner from him. I think I'm near the arboretum and mum goes to the. Mum goes to the little cafe in the old post office. Oh, yeah. Nice in there. I think they do nice soup in a sandwich or something like that, don't they? Or something. Oap. Special. Yeah, it is. I recommend they do, actually. Yeah, it's lovely. By the queen said put in it. Yes, exactly that. Yes, exactly that. Just in the square. Hard to park though. It is. But next time I'll come around yours. I'll borrow. I'll find a spot in your drive. 12:30 is the time. Amelia Cox has the head. 33 minutes after twelve, the U turn is complete. We'll catch up with Theo Usherwood before the end of the program today to go over further details, but I can tell you that 8 million low income households are to get a one off cost of living payment of 650 pounds from July. It will come via the Department of Work and Pensions and is likely, according to Martin Lewis, to go to those on universal credit and legacy benefits. It will be automatic and be sent straight to bank accounts. Somewhat tragically, the first reply on Martin's account is, so if you work and your skin, you get nothing. And someone else has replied to that. As always, the number of people in work on universal credit should really have been drummed into people's heads when this government decided to reduce the monthly pay, the weekly payment, I think by 20 pounds. Was it 20 pounds a month or 20 pounds either way, when this government decided to reduce or remove the amount emergency payment that it had made during the pandemic, because it even took me by surprise and I do this for a living. So if your skin and you're in work, you're on universal credit. That looks good at first glance, Theo. As I say, I'll bring some more details in a little later, but that looks to me like a good measure to address some of the epic problems that are growing. 6 million people who receive non means tested disability Bennetts will get a 150 pound non means tested benefit on top of the 650 pounds. And from autumn, 8 million pensioners who receive winter fuel payment will get an extra 300 pounds. In other words, when it starts getting colder, it's a one off. I think we need to stress that the calculation is that things will get better. If they don't, then we may well be back here again. So there it is. They voted against a windfall tax nine days ago, and they have just introduced one today. Reason for saying they couldn't do it was because it would stop investment in the country by the big energy firms. So if you're lucky enough to bump into him later today, ask him what changed. 1235 is the time Lauren is in healing. Lauren, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So, with moles, the reason they come about is because your DNA in your skin gets mutated and it starts producing, like you said, melanin. I said melatonin. But you're too. You're too. No, it's Melanin. You were right, I was wrong. I think melatonin's for sleep. Yes, I know. You were too polite to correct me. I was wrong. I said melatonin. I meant Melanin. Carry on. That's not because I'm polite, I forgot. And that's the reason why you can get them more as you age. Because when you age, your DNA naturally mutates anyway over time. That's part of the aging process. And the reason you can inherit them is because essentially, a bit like how you can inherit other skin conditions. You inherit some of those mutations that haven't quite become moles yet from your parents. And that's also why you get more in summon, get skin cancer, because the uv rays damage your DNA. Wow. Qualifications. So, my qualifications, the first day I learned this is my biochemistry degree, but also I've got about 150 moles. That's what I had to learn it. And I've got so many moles that I had a nickname referring to being a Dalmatian when I was in school. Wow. That is quite a lot. I mean, you've actually counted them clearly, because the last fellow, the fellow who asked the question, why did you have to count them? I've got about 50 on my arm, and I have to monitor them every year for skin cancer to make sure that none of them are turning. Yeah, turning dodgy. I've already had one out and I'm only 29 now. I'll tell you what that is. I think. I mean, it's gonna sound odd, this, but a question about moles answered by someone with 150 miles, I think that's Ray Liotta territory, don't you? No. What do you. I mean, I think it is how common is. Yeah, well, you are, obviously, but how can you give me. I mean, don't lie now just to get the accolade. But how common is your condition? Think roughly. And also the biochemistry degree plus the 150 plus moles. Yeah. I haven't met anyone with as many moles as me, apart from dad. Doesn't even have that many, but he does have a lot. I'm giving you a Ray Liuta. I'm Ray Liorda, and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it. If you build it, they will come. They will come. Look at that. Fantastic work. And that's partly to make up for the. For the mean nickname that they gave you at school because none of them have got a Rayleigh outer. Lauren, fantastic stuff. Thank you. 1237 is the time Michael is in maidenhead. Michael, question or answer? If an astronomer. It's a question. If an astronomer, and I promise it's not about human allergies or cowboys. Carry on. And if an astronomer looks at outer space and he sees planets and stars, he tells you that we're looking at them thousands and sometimes millions of years in the past because of the amount of time that lights come to reach. Yeah. Yes. If you're able to travel in a spacecraft rocket at twice the speed of light, would you be going backwards or forwards in time? Well, which direction are you going in? Sorry? You're going through outer space. You're heading into space at twice the speed of light. Twice the speed of light. But you wouldn't. Why would you be going back in time or fall? Because of. Because of the amount of time that. No, I understand that, but you're just. You're just going fast. You're not going the light. You're going faster than the light. You're faster. You're traveling at twice the rate of the light. I don't understand. Coming. Coming from the planets. If it takes. If the speed of light is what dictates the age of the planet, the. When you're looking at light, when you can see it from Earth. But the faster you go, the nearer you become to the source of the light. You're not going to go. I don't understand why you think you might go back in time. These questions make my teeth hurt. If, you know, if you're traveling at twice the speed of light. Yeah. All right. I'm going to just ask the question. But I want. For the record, I want everyone to know. I don't understand it. Okay, so if you're traveling into space at twice the speed of light, would you be going backwards or forwards in time? Correct. Okay, you're on. What made you think of this question? Where did it come from? I'm afraid I'm a bit of a Star Trek addict. No. One of them popped up last night, actually. The one that's got both of them in it. Kirk and Picard. Is it? Star Trek generations? And he's just flicking through the telly. And you're never gonna. You're always gonna stop on something like that when you've got Kirk and Picard on the screen together. All right. I mean, I don't understand the question. I think it's very important, particularly when I'm. So. What would the word be? Curt on occasion with people who don't understand things that they have pungent opinions about. I don't know. I don't understand this question. Twice the speed of light. If you're traveling into space at twice the speed of light, would you go backwards or forwards in time? And I know that mathematically, you can't travel at twice the speed of light. It's a theoretical question. I think Mark's in Cirencester. Mark, question or answer? Hi, James. Yes. Love the show. Thank you. Given what's happening in Northern Ireland with the. The stalemates in the parliament. Yeah. Where nothing's happening, the DB and Tim Fein won't move the country together. Yeah, go on. Would it make any significant difference? It's a terrible phone line. Give your phone a wobble or something. Just go and smack it on the back of a sofa or something like that. Or go back to standing where you were standing when you rang in. No, I appreciate it if. I mean, it needs to be now. I don't think it applies to Westminster because there's no power sharing in Westminster. Okay. So if you refuse. If you refuse to sit in the House of Commons, that's just tough. Your opponents will win all the. All the votes. Yeah, it seemed like that. I was just wondering whether there was some ancient law that meant. I don't think so. Because Sinn don't take up their seats in London. Oh, I know that. Yeah. So I think that it is. I think the power sharing thing is what means that they can't. The Stormont can't sit if the DUP are refusing to join in. I don't think there would be any equivalent, even if there was. I mean, even if everybody. If everybody refused to turn up. I suppose you'd have to have another general election or something like that. But I don't think there's a parallel here. I could be wrong. I'll leave it on the board, but I don't think you've got anything to worry about, Mark. I'll bow to your knowledge. Well, yeah. Well, I don't know if it counts as knowledge, as a sort of slightly desperate calculation. But I can't conceive of circumstances in which that would happen. Alex is in Forfar in Scotland. Alex, question or answer? Answer, James, carry on. In relation to the question about extraterrestrial contact. Yes. What are the contingency plans? Well, yeah, I mean, there are certain plans and certain things that were put forward by a number of bodies, such as SETI, search for extraterrestrial intelligence, and I believe the astronomical union about, first of all, the signal or contact or whatever would have to be verified. So they have to be extremely certain about that. This is an individual astronomer finding such a signal or hearing such a signal on the radio, and then after that, they are supposed to make the United nations aware of this. However, there hasn't been anything adopted in a concrete sense, so there isn't an international treaty out there, as such, or any kind of binding international agreement that would have to be followed. So, yes and no. There are things in place, but there's nothing concrete that would have to be. Makes sense to me. What about on a local level? What about on a more local level? Would there be governmental paper on it? If aliens land in Trafalgar Square, is there a plan as to what we would do? I don't believe so, James. Like I say, I mean, international. If it hasn't been considered on the international stage, I think it'd be unlikely that any state would have legislated. In fact, I can say almost quite categorically that I believe there's no domestic legislation, at least, that I know of. Well, why not, Alex? Well, they've only just started producing domestic legislation that regards space programs, and so I don't think this would be the sort of thing that they would have got around to doing ahead of that kind of thing. Fair enough. That's my answer. Yes, there is. And at the same time, no, there isn't anything extremely concrete qualifications. I'm a lecturer in law and I gave a lecture on space law a while ago and I was asked the same question, so I was then compelled to look it up and it came up on the radio today, and I thought that. Fantastic. Round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. It's a lovely answer, although I sense that Miles will probably be quite disappointed with that. I think he was hoping that there would be more detail, and, frankly, so was I. I mean, crikey, what happens? Oh, lord, who are they going to send? It would come under immigration, would it? So they'd send Pritzy Patel to deal. Oh, could you imagine that. Well, on the plus side, they probably will go straight back to Mars. It's coming up to quarter to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on El 60609. It is 1248. We've done the biscuits. How do cats find their way home? And the answer is not cat. Now we've done the aliens. Why do bubbles not pop on mirrors? When did clapping become a universally appreciated way of showing appreciation, even? Why does a sausage stop a pan full of fat from catching fire or burning? And if you were traveling at twice the speed of light into space, would you be going backwards or forwards? Time. And I had a crack at the last one myself. Let's go to Justin, who's in Lingfield. Justin, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Justin. And it's the faster you go, time slows down, and when you actually hit the speed of light. Yeah, time ceases to exist as a concept. So if you're going at twice the speed of light, wouldn't make any difference. In other words, time no longer exists at the point of speed. Alight. It's just that simple. And it's a real effect. And, yeah, in other words, things like GPS. So if you're at the top of a mountain and I'm at the bottom of a mountain, your clock will run slightly slower than mine because, of course, speed over distance, you'd have traveled further. I love the way you say of course. So I didn't understand the question, and I don't really understand the answer. Your clock, your clock that the faster you go, if you think of yourself on a speedometer. On the needle. Yeah. The faster you go, the slower the clock runs to the point where the clock no longer ticks. Right. It's just that you've just got to think about it in it. It could be confusing if you think about it too much. That's often the way with me. That's often the way. It's just the faster you go, the slower your clock to the point, at the point speed of light, the clock stops. Qualifications? I bagged my way into being a technical author because I don't have any. But what is. I mean, what sort of stuff do you work on? What is your field of interest that allows you to answer this question? It could be anything. So I could look at. I could look at wood, I could look at it, I could look at any subject, and then I write about it to make people understand it. Oh, wow. And you've written about this? No, astronomy just happens to be my hobby. That's your qualification then, isn't it? Well, no qualification astronomer. Well, yes, but it's. How ironic. Just a fair weather astronomer round of applause for our fair weather outside. No, that's. That'll do nicely. Great work. I mean, I think, as I say, I've got. I don't really understand the question or the answer. Sorry. Round of applause for Justin, please. Oh, Matthew's in. Shepherds and Matthew. Question or answer? Answer to the frying pan sausage question. Oh, marvellous. Carry on. Right, so if a frying pan with oil in it is smoking hot, then it's got to be very hot, like 200 degrees c plus. Yeah. As soon as you put a presumably colder, room temperature sausage bacon, piece of meat in there, that drags the temperature of the pan down and so it stops smoking. Now, the sausage bacon, what have you, is made of mostly water, as most foods are. Yes. And so thereafter, the heat energy that's being put into the pan by the cooker isn't going towards raising its temperature, it's going towards boiling off the water. Right you are. And the boiling off water is what makes the spitting sound of frying. And so that basically that mechanism prevents the temperature of the pan getting back up to the smoke point of the oil, which is why it doesn't smoke anymore. You're cooking your food. But it will eventually. It will eventually. If you were to leave the sausage or bacon in there until it was a completely dried out, blackened mess, then there'd be no more water and the temperature would rise, it would start smoking again. But why would you do that? You'd have ruined a perfectly good sausage. Qualifications? A passion for and wealth of experience of frying sausages. That's one of the best qualifications we've ever had. It's lovely. Yeah. Fantastic work. Do you have a particular favorite sausage? Oh, well, you know, my next pack of sausages is going to be, I think, a bunch of Sainsbury's pork and apple. I love. I love the way the apple. The sweetness of the apple balances, cuts through the pork. The saltiness of the cure pork. I think you're right. Well, I mean, pork and apple goes together like lamb and mint, doesn't it? Or James and Theo. It is 1252. Eamon is in Rochdale. Eamon, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Eamon. To do with the cats, how to get home. Yeah, go on. You're gonna hate me for this, but they do actually have a cat nav. No, no. Okay, let me explain. They have a kind of homing system built in, like birds. Like a bird will fly off the far reaches and come back. You mean like a homing pigeon? Yeah, they have a homing sense and it works up to about three or 4 miles. Really. So if you drove a cat 10 miles away, it probably would not be able to come home. Yeah, probably get lost. I mean, it's a bit of a weak. It's a weak brew. For a round of applause, aim. And they've got a ho. How do cats get home? They've got a homing system. They have. They have got. Yeah, but I mean, can we sound a bit more scientific about it or something? Okay. My cat went missing, oh. In 2017. Right. So I did loads of Google fu. Yeah. And I found a scientific report saying that cats do have a homing system, but the scientists aren't quite sure how it works. They think it's to do with. Well, that's convenient, isn't it, Eamon? That's very convenient for you, Eamon, that the scientists don't know quite how it works, but they reckon cats do have a system similar to birds. But we know that because they get home. You don't need to be a scientist to say, how does a cat get home? Who asked the question about the cats? Where's it gone? It was Katie asked the question about cats. She said, how'd the cats get home? If I said they had some sort of homing system, do you think I would have given myself a round of applause? Uh, probably not, no. But I can only answer from what I remember. Theo, I should have come into the studio. I'm gonna let you decide. Harsh. Oh, here we go. Here he comes. Oh, it's Snowflake Usherwood in there. All right. I'm a first time caller. It's letting it on thick. Now. Give me flaws, then. Cheers. I haven't chosen the. Yeah. Competition winner. I'm thinking that I'm probably going to give it to. I'm going to give it to the. I haven't written. The only name. I haven't written down. Who got the ray Liotta for the moles question? Okay, well, it was Lauren and Ealing for the. For the. For the board game, obviously. If you were unlucky enough not to win, then you can get your own at Mysteryoud dot co dot Uk dot. Remember, my kids need shoes. Couple of quick texts. This one made me laugh. John Bowers says, if aliens land in the UK. James, in answer to the question about the contingency plans, they'll be sent to Rwanda. And somebody who was obviously even more confused by the speed of light question than I was says, does this mean my feet are older than my head? Thank you, Theo. Usher is here. I'll just read you something from last week. Theo, this is Rishi Sunak, who I believe is still the chancellor of the exchequer. He said, lastly, to address the honourable lady's point on a windfall tax. Of course, that sounds superficially appealing, but we on the government benches deal with complex problems in a responsible way. The obvious impact of a windfall tax would be to deter investment. It's as simple as that. So mystery hour isn't finished, by the way, because I've got a question. Go on. When is a windfall tax not a windfall tax? I know this, I know this. Are you ready? When it is an energy profit levy, this is what the chancellor had to say. And so, like previous governments, including conservative ones, we will introduce a temporary, targeted energy profits levy. But we have built into the new levy. But we have built into the new levees, but we have built into the new levy a new investment allowance similar to the super deduction. That means companies will have a new and significant incentive to reinvest their profits. So, a couple of bits of detail. Firstly, it's a 25% levy on energy profits made by the big firms like BP and Shell. It's expected to raise in the region of 5 billion pounds. But as the chancellor was just mentioning there, there's going to be an 80% deduction if those companies reinvest their profits. So they're not paying that money in tax into new technologies like offshore wind, nuclear power. Because, of course, the argument from the chancellor and from the prime minister has always been that we don't want to impose taxes that deter investment by companies like BP and Shell. And therefore, this is the argument from number ten and number eleven, that would mean that we wouldn't be able to be, in ten years time, completely independent in terms of our energy infrastructure. So if there was another crisis, like what we're experiencing in Ukraine, then we would still see the same price spikes that we've seen. So that's. That's an important bit of detail from number eleven's point of view. Why didn't I get a round of applause for getting it correct? Thank you. And what? No, you asked. Oh, I don't go around. You asked the question. You said, when is a windfall tax not a windfall tax? And I said, when it's an energy profit levy. So I got the round of applause. What's the money? Give people the details of cash and then Sheila will be going over this like a proper grown up. So they're going to be spending, they're going to be providing a 650 pound, one off cost of living payment to 8 million households. And you remember that loan? That wasn't a loan of 200 pounds, they're actually extending that to 400 pounds and you're not going to have to pay it back. While it is impossible for the government to solve every problem, we can and will ease the burden as we help the entire country through the worst of this crisis. So we will provide more support with the rising cost of energy and that support will be universal. Earlier this year, we announced 9 billion pounds to help with the cost of energy, including a council tax rebate of 150 pounds for tens of millions of households. And we plan to provide all households with 200 pounds off their energy bills from October, with the cost of that repaid over the following five years. Since then, the outlook for energy prices has changed. I've heard people's concerns over the impact of these repayments on future bills, so I've decided that those repayments will be canceled. But he gave the new name to that because when it was a loan, he called it a grant. So what can he call it now that it's actually a grant? Calls it a grant still. But what's interesting is he says, the energy price out. The price outlook for energy has changed since March. But of course it hasn't changed since March. The only thing we couldn't have a windfall tax because that was not how we do things. It is as simple as that, he said in incredibly patronising tones to Rachel Reeves. The only. I mean, we knew. We knew back in March, the energy price cap was at significant risk of going up to 3000 pounds, or in the region of 3000 pounds a year in October. And that happened last week when Jonathan Brierly, the chief executive of Ofgem, announced it. Actually, it was earlier this week. So the government is of course responding and claims from Labour and the opposition parties is that this has been too slow. Do you want to know something funny? Sheila's here, so I won't take up much longer. Do you want to know something funny? Guess where I'm going tonight? Oh, my gosh. You go to a party at number ten Downing street. No, that'd be the day. I'm going to the massive Abba party. How topical is that? Is that the one out in east London? Yeah, the big. The first night of voyage. Is that has or hasn't been investigated by the police. The hologram? No, this one hasn't been investigated, but. Well, it was. But then Sue Gray. And then they decided. Anyway, I'll tell you what it was like tomorrow.