How are the letters on bus stops decided?

BC four minutes after twelve and the fact that we just played out a pre recorded interview with Tim Peak prior to the twelve noon news means that you've actually got your best chance ever to get through early on mystery Hour. If you've tried and failed in the past, then now is your chance. Let me remind you of the rules. If it's a boring question, you'll be politely invited to move along. And if it's a question that we can remember dealing with relatively recently, then similarly you'll be politely invited to jog on. But other than that, pretty much anything goes. And if you're wondering whether or not the question you're poised to ask is boring, in fact, if you're wondering what the hell I'm talking about and what mystery hour is, and why we're not talking about something in the news this hour because you're relatively new to the program or the station, you stay where you are. I'll sort you out in a minute. But first, dullness. Well, if you can't really imagine many other people being interested in the answer to the question that you're thinking of asking, then don't bother asking. It is usually a reliable rule of thumb. It's by far from foolproof. Far from foolproof, but it is reliable up to a point. The number of people interested in the answer seems to you to be high. Then it will probably be an enjoyable addition to the mystery. Our jamboree, repetition and dullness are our enemies. The way it works is this. You currently have somewhere, nestling in your consciousness, a question to which you desperately need an answer. You haven't been able to find that answer for love nor money. It's a who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whither, possibly even a wherefore. We've even had the occasional where, and somebody else listening to the program will know the answer to that question. The only other rule of mischaracter is you're not allowed to look anything up. If it's something that you've read in the past and can remember, that's fine. If it's something that you saw on telly last week, or last year, or back in the midst of time. But if you can draw it up from your memory and convincingly explain it, that's all fine, that's all good. But don't look it up now. This is like a kind of an antidote to the Google based society that we inhabit, an antidote to a world in which we are laboring under an illusion that everything worthwhile is at our fingertips. We don't actually need to bother learning it. Think of it as a celebration of education, a celebration of knowledge, actually learned knowledge, as opposed to googled knowledge, which is what passes for learned knowledge across most of the planet at the moment. Is that it? Can you think of anything else? I think that's pretty much it. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, you have to ring in, otherwise your radio might break. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. In both cases. I will ask you what your qualifications are if you provide an answer. By that I only mean how do you know that? You don't have to say bagger gymnastics award three and a cycling proficiency at Stourport police station in 1986. It means qualifications simply in the context of. How do you know that? So it could be. Saw it on telly last night, or as has happened rather embarrassingly frequently of late, it could be that you heard it on mischief a couple of years ago and you can remember the answer. But I can't even remember the question. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Is that it? Should we just crack on now? Are we good? Are we good? If you hear me say the phone number, it means I've got a phone line free. Okay, that's true throughout the week on LBC, but it's particularly true during mystery hour because the phones are even busier during this hour than they are for the other 14. For the other 14, they're busier than any other switchboard in town. So listen out for the number. If you hear me say the number, that means I've got some phone lines free. If you never say the number, you end up speaking to the same people every day, which no one enjoys. Nick's in slough. Nick, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question, please. I've spent you for a few years. My daughter's going to be married soon. Congratulations, Nick. Well, why do I have to pay for the wedding? Traditionally? Why is it always the father's, the daughter and the groom? They don't have to pay. I'm not having a moan. You totally are, mate. I just want to know. No, you're totally having a moan. I just want to know why the bride's father or family have to pay for the wedding. Well, I mean, more than. Because, in a way, you've answered it yourself when you said traditionally, but you want to know about the origins of the tradition. Yes, exactly. I mean, it does sound, my friend, as if this particular requirement has diluted your otherwise unbounded joy at the prospect of your little girl's nuptials. Well, to be honest, she's only engaged, so I don't know when it's going to happen. Fingers crossed, then, eh? Yeah. I just want to know. Traditionally, scratch cards, mate, you need to start buying a lot of scratch cards. That's the way forward. I think I know the answer. Can I have a go at this one? Yeah, of course, mate. It's linked to the dowry and the idea that back in the day, your daughter would have been moving in with her husband's family after getting married. So they would have been assuming responsibility for the cost of her life, if you will, feeding her, clothing, her, housing her, providing all of the things that historically, a husband's family provided to the wife. And so as part of the dowry, you pay for the wedding. Right, because they're paying for everything else. Subsequently, the world has changed, of course, and this doesn't really apply anymore. And in my experience, Nick, I don't want you to get into trouble with your daughter or indeed her fiance's family, but in my experience, very few people still subscribe fully to that old fashioned notion. They either end up paying for it themselves or both sets of parents will chip in and help. Yeah. Oh, yeah. That happened to me when I got married. Yeah. Well, there you go, then. So I'll leave it on the board, because I don't think my answer was sufficiently encyclopedic to merit a round of applause. But I don't want you to worry. I think once. Once, you know, if the engagement escalates to setting a date, then you sort of subtly turn the conversation around to who'll be paying for what. Yeah, yeah, I'm not worried, mate. I just want to know. You totally are. What, the traditional. That's what I presume, that's what it was, is that the husband's family takes responsibility for the wife moving forward. So as a sort of farewell, you pay, not only you provide a dowry, and under the same sort of umbrella of dowry, you also pay for the ceremony. I don't know, though. I'll leave that on the board. Why did the groom's family. Why did the bride's family pay for the wedding? Zero. 345-606-0973 your answer will have to be more detailed than mine, obviously, otherwise I get the round of applause. Where are we going next? Idyll is in Horsham. Idyll. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. It was about what Tim Peak was saying, actually, Monday Fridays are a blur. He's not here anymore. You know that. I know he's not here. I didn't know you're doing it live. No, no, it's all smoke and mirror, mate. Smoke and mirror. Always, always. But I was wondering how they measure a day up there. Is it still done on time? But then I was thinking about when you travel abroad and your clock changes, because the time difference. Or he can answer that, you prune. I can't answer this. I know, but you've also got, you know, press. The house will be listening. He's never been to space. He lives in Brighton. Yeah, but he'd know how they measure it when. They probably got a clock, haven't they? But that's what I'm saying. How's that clock. What's that clock done by? Because here on earth is in you and you're in different times. Well, it's the same as at sea. Why? What's at sea? Isn't there a time at sea? Isn't there a special type marit. What's it called? Is it good? No. When you're at sea, all shipping obeys the same time. I think it's Greenwich mean time. So space will be the same. They're just following Greenwich meantime. And they've got a clock to tell them. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Stone cold certain. Stone cold certain. You ain't even certain about that. The only bit I'm not certain about is whether it's Greenwich mean time, but I'm pretty sure it is. I know that. And I'm 99% certain that in space they obey the same clock that they obey at sea. But I sense you're not going to give me a round. You're not giving me a round of applause on this, because depending on where you take off. Depending on where you take off on earth, obviously, they took off when Kazakhstan. Yeah. So they're their time difference from when they get there. When they get space. Yeah. Then they're gonna be. They're gonna jet lag in it a little bit. Yeah. But they'll go over it. Yeah. Oh, I don't know. It's not gonna be Kazakhstan time, because the reason you get jet lag is because of the sun and that, isn't it, to do with your internal. Something like that clock. Yeah. So do it light and dark. Yeah. Through your eyes. Yeah, it is. So how's that going to work? I've asked about 37 questions now. Well, no, it's still the same question. Is it time in space? How do they? How do they. What time is it in space is what you're asking. I can't stop talking about jet lag and all that malarkey. Yeah. How do they measure the time? Yeah. What time is it in space? How do they measure the time as well? I like that question. Good interview with Tim, Pete. Or not. Was it all right? Yeah, it was good. I thought it was live. Knocks out of ten, 9.5. Oh, wow. Hey, I'll take that to the bank. Thanks. Idle 13 minutes after twelve. Let's get him an answer. What time is it in space? What time is love? That was one of the first questions we asked on mystery. I still never got an answer. Alison's in Crawley. Alison, question or answer? Oh, question. How can you be surprised when you're on hold on a radio station when the presenter says hello? Well, I don't know. I maybe thought you'd go to an advert or something. There's only two phone lines I can go to at any one time. I could have gone, hi, Alison. Oh, oh, he's talking to me. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. It's a biology one. I've always wanted to know this. Why is it that dogs are at their most fertile when they're in season, but humans are at their least fertile when they're menstruating? What is the different biology that's going on there? They're both mammals, they are in season. So dogs give off external signs that they're fertile, whereas humans give off external signs that they're not. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, I would have assumed that the loss of blood was the same process for both human. It can't be the same process. Well, it can't be, can it? Because otherwise they wouldn't be at their most fertile. And that's what I don't understand. So can you get the question into a sentence for me? Yeah. Why are dogs at their most fertile when they're in season and humans at their least fertile? Yeah, okay. I like that. I like that a lot. Let's see if I can get you an answer. I don't know that we will, but someone might be able to have a. Have a go, Alison. Thank you very much indeed. 1215 is the time. LBC Jaggy, 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Why do the bride's family pay for the wedding? Traditionally? I've had a go at that. I think I might be right, but I'm not confident enough to give myself the round of applause that greets every definitive answer on mystery. What time is it in space? Actually, ditto. And what is it about fertility and mammals? How come when a dog is fertile, they're in season and yet when a woman is, at her least, is completely not fertile, that's when she is menstruating, that's when it's her time of the month. I should have framed that question better. That's what I'm doing. Anyway, it's there now. 20 minutes after twelve is a time. Phone lines are open. Professor Howell on the line from Brighton. So presumably you're going to go for the space question? Yes, ma'am, you may. I think you've gone a bit early this week. Hell, to be honest. Well, I have to get sort of getting quickly because it's been slim picking science wise. Recently. It has been slim picking science wise, but I don't know, I just thought Tim Peak might sort of inspire a lot of science questions. There might be some more complicated ones coming up. But we are where we are. What is it? What time is love? No, no, no, it's a very nice question and it's quite complicated. Rather than just barking science at everyone, I'm going to answer the. Answer the question with another question. Suppose Tim peakers on his space station and for some strange reason he wants to measure the length of the instruction manual for the space station. What would he use for that? A clock? No, it's a length thing. So what would you. I'm going to be honest with you. Once you started talking, I kind of zoned out a bit and was getting on with a little bit of homework because I thought you're entertaining the listeners. Now, I don't trust many callers in that way, Hal, so please don't take it as an insult, but once you started off on your, on your spiel, I thought, oh, there we go, I'll just check my clock. I'm doing news Night tonight, I better just make sure I've got them. All right. So anyway, say that again. Did you doze off during my answer? Yeah. Okay, suppose, for the sake of argument, Tim Peake wanted to measure the length of the instruction manual for the space station, what would he use to measure that? A ruler. Right, okay, so that ruler presumably is based on some ruler somewhere, which was the original absolute frame of reference for measuring length? Yeah, actually it was the original length. The original definition of a meter was a platinum bar based in the Louvre. And all other rulers were based on that. Effectively. And so a day is the time it takes for the earth to go through one rotation, and as soon as you get something to emulate that length of time, for example, a clock, you don't actually need to look at the earth rotating. Well, we know that that clock will go through 24 hours in. Carry on. Am I your favorite? Yeah, one of them, yeah, go on. No, no, don't. That's why I was whispering. You weren't supposed to hear. Just carry on. So, the point is that as soon as you can rely on a clock to emulate earth rotating, you don't need the earth rotating anymore. And we do. We have atomic clocks. Atomic clocks, superseded quartz based clocks, and they're based on the vibrations of cesium atoms, and they just have atomic clocks. So wherever you are, you know that one day is one day. And I told a rather shocking statistic to my students yesterday. I said, if you lived at the age of 72, how long is that? And it's. Do you know how long. How many hours you get in a lifetime? 650,000 hours. And I also calculated, while I was waiting, that includes 3744 mystery hours. Ah. Now, because I was about to times that by three, I was just dividing 24 by three, which is eight. So 650,000 divided by eight would say, how much of your life? Then remove weekends and holidays you could spend listening to me. 3744 mystery hours. I'm looking forward to all of them, James. Well, you've been involved in just about everyone that we've had so far. And then just the simplistic bit about your brilliant answer is, what clock are they using? It's not Kazakh, is, it's GMT. It's UTC, isn't it? What's it called? But it's GMT that they're subscribing to. Yes. Greenwich, meantime, is effectively the universal standard and everything else is based on that. It's a line running through the meridian. But the point is, wherever you are, let's ignore sort of, relativity for the time being, wherever you are, as long as the clock is based on one rotation of the earth, then you can tell a day, you know where you are. Qualifications? Professor Hal? A cuff scout badge? No, no, no, Ted, because there are a lot of new listeners, mate. You've got to tell them, otherwise they just think this is a bit of an odd sort of cozy banter scenario. Tell them what you do. I'm a professor of public understanding at the University of Brighton. There you go. Round of applause for Hal. Some talk of starting an honours board on the new LBC website that you must go and visit. But seeing as it'll be dominated by Hal and Wayne in Basildon. I don't think I'm going to bother. Kapil is in Richmond. Kapil. Question or answer? Hi. Morning, James. Yeah, I've got. Actually, both. I've got a question and answer. No, just whatever you cleared with Caroline, please don't start rewriting. Yes, carry on. At the top of every bus stop, there are letters either singular or plural. So every time you're going from one bus to the other bus stop, you see a letter at the top, but there is no kind of sequence in terms of they go alphabetically or they go because of the postcode. So I was wondering how they label those and what does that connotate? Did you hear me at the outset when I said that? Before you ask your question, just ask yourself whether or not anyone else is going to be interested in the answer. No, I didn't. No. I thought you might have missed that. Is it. I mean, why do you want to know, Kapil? Just being curious. There must be a reason for having those letters. The reason is that it's the name of the bus stop, isn't it? That's the thing. You can't do it alphabetically because you never know when new ones are going to appear. So you call it KP or PK or K, and it means that the driver can report to base which one he's at, where he is. I thought about that. Because when in the. When you're inside the bus, it tells you what stop you at. So when they say, let's say if you're going from Sloane Square to Fulham, if you're in your Chelsea football ground, I thought, whatever the bus station, the street name is that has really be the same letters at the bus stop, but it doesn't kind of connotate to that. It's just completely random letters. No, but because you might have two streets with the same name on different bus routes, at opposite ends of town, you might actually have the Acacia Avenue stop for the number 37 and the number 44. So they can't call it the Acacia Avenue stock because there's two Acacia avenues. So they have to give it a name that's unlinked to its geographical location, ergo, KP or PK or KK or PP. So that's the only reason that you may think is the answer with it. Well, I mean, it's Occam's razor, Kapil, isn't it? It's the most simple and obvious. I'm going to leave it on the board for you. But it's not fair that I shouldered this burden alone. Someone's going to get told off for putting this through to the studio. Thanks for that. What do you mean, thanks for that? I'm insulting you. Just pay attention, will you? It's a really boring question. Just because I go on buses a lot, so I go on buses a lot. But I don't sit there wondering why they've got K and P and D and M on them. I do, I do. All right. I feel bad now, taking it in such good grace. I thought you'd get cross with me and then we could have a bit of a ding dong. I wouldn't get cross with you, James. All right, Kapil, I'll find out for you. Bus stop. It's all good. Lawrence. Is Anisha Lawrence question or answer? It's an answer, James. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Lawrence. Which one would you like to answer? It's one that you've almost answered when you rephrased your listener's question. It's about a dog and a human menstrual cycle. Oh, yes. The way you rephrased it almost answered the question, because a dog, when it's on heat, is ovulating. The female dog and the human, when they're menstruating is the exact opposite of the cycle. It is breaking down. And there are probably signs that the female of the human species gives off while ovulating. Oh, yes, but your question, they're two completely different things. It's what Freddie Ayer called a category error that alison has blundered into, isn't it? Yeah. And when you rephrase the question you actually gave, the answer. Often happens that way, Lawrence. But I'm far too modest to comment on it. Anyway, that's the ovulation and menstruation are two completely different thing. I mean, they couldn't be more different. They're the polar opposite of each other, opposites of the menstrual cycle. And women give off pheromones, hormones, when they're ovulating, that increase the likelihood of them being pregnant, being impregnated. Yeah, that's what dogs do, so it's the same thing. It's just not as stark. What and what. What are your qualifications? Attending the London hospital medical College. But you were a dentist, weren't you? Yeah, but I didn't do all that stuff at dentistry college. Lawrence, don't start yanking my chain. At 28 minutes after twelve on a Thursday afternoon, I spent four and a half years at the medical college, part of which was at the dental school. And so you cover the other stuff as well. The other end. Normal physiology during the first year years of medical college. Do you know, if we did have an honours board, Lawrence would probably be on it as well. Thank you, James. No, thank you, Lawrence. Beautifully played, as ever. 29 minutes after twelve. Now you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why did the bride's father pay for the wedding? We've done dogs, fertility. And how did bus stops get their names? That was thanks to Kapil in Richmond. Who put Kapil through. Was it you, Beth? Yeah, we'll be. We'll be having words. All right, we'll be having words during the news, which is coming up around about now. After which we'll return to the questions that are being asked and have a look. Possibly at a few new ones. Actually, we're going to need some. Some new ones. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. And on that brand spanking new LBC website I told you about, LBC dot co dot UK. I think the mystery hour archive has had a bit of a refresh, so go and check that out as well. Rupert Bartheado is here with the headlines. First, a former star of BBC tv show again on LBC, 33 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery Hour is underway. I like this question. It's as old as the hills, but we get a proper answer to it, I hope. Why do the brides family have to pay for the wedding? We've done the space time and the. I'm going to read you a quick tweet from John T. He says, I'm a bus enthusiast. Even as a bus enthusiast, I think the bus stop question is a bit boring. At least the bus stops here in Nottingham shall follow a logical system. But it's up there, there now. How do they get the names? How do they name the bus stops? Melvin is in Lab Brook Grove. Question or answer? Melvin. Hi, James. It's a question. It's about you and Nick, actually. So Nick's been doing it for years and you've just started recently, in the last, I don't know, seven, eight months or so, using the phrase man alive. And I know the context, but I can't, for the life of me, me find out what it. Where it comes from. And I want to know. I think you've only noticed me. So I guess maybe I've started relaxing on the radio a bit more than I used to do. But I've said man alive all my. All my life. Man alive. Man alive. Nick Ferrari or Nick Abbott? No, Nick Ferrari. Nick Ferrari. Does it? Man alive. Man alive. What? The origins of the phrase man alive as a sort of expression of surprise. Yeah, absolutely, yeah. It's a good question that actually. I like it. Man alive. Maybe I got it off him. I don't know. I've been here so long, I try and zone him out in the mornings, but they have it on in the office and sometimes it's impossible to avoid. Yeah, well, I. Yeah, I. It sounds like you've got it from him even though you've used it your whole life. Man alive. Let's find out. Let's find out. It's up there. You're on hands free. Always makes me nervous. So we crack on. Seriously. Good question, though. Thank you. John is in Bromley. John. Quite. Question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Yes. I recently started sailing and I've noticed that some islands are called by their place name first, like Hailing island, or they may be called by the Isle or, like Isle of Sheppey. Sailing. You said sailing. I thought you said saving. Thought I've recently started saving and then you started talking about islands, but. You mean you recently started sailing. Oh, there you go. Oh, thank goodness. There's a huge list of them I've downloaded, but please. No. Okay, just give it. So what's the question? Why? What? Some islands start with the name of the place. I heard all that. What's the question? You want to know how they decide. How they decide? Why? How they decide? Yeah. You really think there's going to be an answer to that? It must be because someone does it somewhere. It's just random, isn't it? Isle of dogs, isle of Sheppey, isle of Wight. Not really, no. No. Well, I don't know whether it's random or not, but there's kind of about half. Give me some. Something. Island, hailing island. Right, you've got. You've got Fursey Island, Green island, havegate Island, hailing island. What about Earth? What about Earth's. John? Sorry? What about Earth's? Earth's. Earth's. I can't find that one on my list. Little islands. It's a little islands in the middle of the river. I mean. Well, not really, because the isle of Wight is a big island. That's the biggest. It's not an e. It's not an e, it's an isle. Well, yeah, but the. Well, don't know what. Do anyone live on the islands? Well, the. I do. On the isle of wight. No, but no, the islands, not the isles. Does anyone live on the islands? Isle of Sheppey. No, islands. The islands, not the isles. The islands. Well, hailing island. Yeah. People live there. Yeah, those people live there. All right. And the Isle of wight. The isle of. Silly. Silly. No, it's the silly isles, mate. It's the silly isles. Not the isle of silly. Not going to google it isn't. Well, maybe there's. But the isle of Silly is part of the Silly isles. Yeah, collectively. But they've each got their individual name. All right, so what, who decides? Oh, man. I thought the bus stops question was bad, John. Well, that's my claim to fame. Is it? Yeah, probably. All right, then. How's the sailing going? One of my kids wants to take up sailing. Would you recommend it? I definitely recommend it. And go to the Rya Royal association and find out the nearest place to you and they can do various courses. You know. Courses. Course one, course two, course three. Okay, cool. Dad of the year, once again in the bag, John. I'll do my best, but I'm not going to lie to you, my friend. I don't think there is an answer to the question, why is it sometimes something island and other times isle of something? Well, we'll see. We will see. Well, we won't see for certain, because just if nobody answers it doesn't mean there isn't an answer, it just means you haven't been able to find one. But we've got 20 minutes, so, you know, knock yourself out. Zero. 345-606-0973 bus stops and islands. And, of course, the bride's wedding. Peter is in Thornton Heath. Peter, question or answer? Answer. I hope for you, the letters on the top of the bus stops, they're basically just map references for the public and emergency services. If you look on the map at the bus stop, you'll see that normally in a busy area where there are numerous stops, say Elephant and castle, just so you can get your bearings. And also, if the bus driver has to call the emergency services out, it's a reference point, that's all. And what does it refer to? Is it random or. It's on the map? If you ever look at the actual map on the bus stop, police probably have the same map. If you're at bus stop p and you need to go wherever you look. Who decided that it was P? Who decided it was bus stop p? They're totally random. They use the Alphabet. And where you get lots and lots of bus stops the next one, as you said, like a PN or a Pa. Yeah. It's just a reference point for the emergency services and public. That's what I said. Because if it was a Casey Avenue, there could be six Acacia avenues on various bus routes. Exactly, yeah. That's all. They're for qualifications. 30 years of bus driver. 30 years a bus driver. Thank you. I'm going to use the Rayleigh. This is the worst Rayleigh ota I've ever used. But, I mean, 30 years a bus driver. Today, that earns you this. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. All right, Ray, mate? It's a bit over the top. He is a bus driver, but I haven't heard it for a while and it's one of my favorite things. Luke is in Chelsea. Luke, question or answer? Well, I've actually got an answer to the bus stop question. Well, I've just gone Rayleigh Ota on the bus stop question. You should have said something before I press the button. Well, I just spoke to your researcher and I did tell her your heads are going to rush. She's already in trouble. She's. This is like she's storing up points. Go on, then. What have you got? Did the last fellow get it wrong? He was 30 years a bus driver. Lukey and I work for the maintenance company that actually looks after all of the bus charters and posts and stuff. Like you said, they are random, but actually, it has nothing to do with the bus shelter itself. The shelter itself has its own determined ten digit number. It actually determines the post that they're sitting on top of. It's got nothing to do with the bus shelter whatsoever. So if the post being damaged, it identifies that post along that street, or if you're going to suspend the bus stop, that's where they'll put. I'm going to give you a round of applause. I don't think anyone was confused about the shelters, but I'm good. But we've just had bonus knowledge now that you've provided to us. Lovely. Well, I've been listening to mystery r for a long time and it's the first time I've had an answer. I found up with a few questions, such as why the men have nipples and what causes wind. I don't want to fall out of you. I can see why they didn't put you through. Give him a round of applause. Quick to shut him up. There we go. Thank you very much. Luke. 1241 is the time Hannah is in Lewisham. Question or answer, Hannah? Well, it's an. It's an answer, Jake. No, no, no. You don't sound remotely confident. Well, I'm not. Oh, no, come on. Hang on a minute. Sorry, it's just a slight expansion on your own answer. And I knew it. I knew you were going to be tough with me, because news night later, Hannah. I'm getting my. I'm getting my. Will you try and relax on news now? Certainly not. I can't relax on news. Knows what will happen if I relax. I'll start saying man alive and stuff like that. You smiled the other day and I thought, well done. Friday night. Friday night I was cracking jokes. Yeah, I know. Yeah, right. You're easing into it. Thank you. Nice. Nice gig when one can get one. I know. What? I know why you got it. Because you went to private school. That's exactly it. I've got the handshake and the funny tie and everything. It's all under control. I've never. Also because I'm a champagne socialist as well. They only hire champagne socialists at the BBC. Yeah, that's right. Have you forgotten what you rang in for now? No, I haven't. No. It's just a slight expansion on your own answer, as far as I can remember. I think it goes at least all the way back to the Old Testament, because a woman was a chapel, a possession and a burden, in fact. And if she wasn't owned by the father, if the father's absent, then the brother was her owner. If the brother. There's no brothers, then her uncle's her owner. So she was available to be sold, basically. And the wedding was sort of paid. No, that wouldn't work, though. That wouldn't be why they paid for the wedding. They paid for the wedding to get rid of her. Yes. So they weren't selling her, though, which is what you said. You know, she gets. I don't think I can give you a round of. I don't think you have expanded. I don't think you've expanded me at all. No, I knew you wouldn't. And you're quite right. It's been good to catch up. It's been good to catch up. And I enjoyed your sort of constructive criticism of my televisual demeanor, but I don't think I can give you a round of applause for this. This. All right, then. Okay. I've got tomorrow as well. Well, let's try again, then. Okay. All right. You'd mind? How you go, Hannah? It's 1244. You're listening to James O'Brien and Hannah on LBC. Dave is in Bromley. Question or answer, Dave? Question. Carry on snoring. Yes. How is it that you can wake up your spouse, your kids, your pets and sometimes your neighbors, but you can't wake up yourself when you snore? You can actually. I've never done it. No, you. Maybe not. You're snoring. I've been woken up by the spouse and the spouse has woken me up. Well, you know. No, I like it. I like. But. But you can. I mean, you can work and sometimes you hear a snorer just before you wake up and. And then you realize it was you. After waking up, you can wake yourself up. So your answer doesn't quite. Once. No, well, once you've actually. Once you actually fallen asleep, because I've had. I've had her do. She's actually woken up and she's recorded me on the phone snoring and I'm like, really? And that was loud. It's the depth of sleep that you're in. You're only going to wake up the spouse when she's different in her sleep cycle. She's going to be in the. In the kind of, you know, the. Not the deep sleep bit and you're going to be in the deep sleep bit when you're snoring. If you weren't in the deep sleep bit, you wouldn't have snored because the first time you snored, you'd have stopped because you heard it. So that. It's big qualifications. I've been reading a lot about sleep lately. Have you? Yeah. Don't ask. Why do you need to? Give yourself a round of applause, then. I will. Thanks, Dave. Pleasure doing business with you. He's top 45. J Louise Knight's here with the travel. Thanks, James. Good afternoon. And the m 40 embarking on 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Just a quick heads up for you. Whether you're a landlord, tenant or homeowner, our team of experts answer your questions tonight from nine on LBC's property hour. And right now, you could win an Apple iPhone six s, an Apple Watch sport and a monster portable battery pack. All thanks to direct line landlord insurance. Do find out more about their de facto five star rated insurance by searching online for direct line landlord. For your chance to win and to download the property hour podcast, go to LBC dot co dot UK. Joanna is in south Croydon. I like this week's mystery. James she says it's less a question and answer session and more of a big chit chat. I like that as well. Joanna, Paul is in Enfield. Paul, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Yes. My question is, how long do I have to be listening to your show before I become a listener? And it goes on to the scale of how many people are listening to your programme. There's two questions there. One is philosophical and one is systemic. So you never become a listener in terms of the ratings, unless you get sent a diary, unless you put on a list of people whose listening habits attract by the central body called Rajar, and then they extrapolate from a sample, the broader population. See what I mean? I do. But if I phoned up, I tuned into your radio station. Ten minutes, would I make them become a listener? Well, according to the official figures, I think they break them down into 15 minutes groupings. Do they? So you tick a box of what you were listening in that 15 minutes grouping. So technically, I suppose the answer to your question is 15 minutes or half an hour. That is it, yeah. No, yeah, the answer is 15 minutes. Yep. That you've cleared it up. James, give yourself a round of applause, mate, you sound so happy with that information. No, I am, because you know what, James? I've been saying to people, I'm going to phone you up. I'm going to phone you up and go ask this question. They said, don't be stupid, you're just going to be put down. Just don't be stupid. I said, no, I really want to know the answer. How long do I have to watch? Oh, mate, that is brilliant. Another satisfied customer. Good work, Paul. Come here, mate. Let's have a man hug. You ready? Come on, let's hug it out. Come on. Yay. Come on. Another satisfied customer. 1252 is the time. Martin's in Basingstoke. Question or answer, Martin? Answer. Carry on. It's the man alive one. Oh, yeah. What's the origin of the phrase man alive? As a sort of expression of surprise. Man alive or an expression of delight, even? Perhaps it's actually both. A married time, saying it was at shipwrecks, when they've gone to rescue them, they shout it when they found someone floating in the water. Still alive. Man alive, yeah, live. And it just carried on from there? Yeah. Makes sense, doesn't it? Qualifications. My granddad was in the navy for 20 odd years. And he told you this? Yeah. I never. Round of applause. Good work, Martin. You're very welcome. Spreading a love today, 1252. Is the time I can score squeeze you in I still got time. Zero 345-606-0973 gonna get a question that one about islands and isles. Everyone's saying there's no rhyme nor reason to it at all. It's just tradition. It got called an island or it got called an isle. It might be to do with age slightly. An isle of might be older than an island, but the question's still there. What are. Why are some islands called Isle of and other islands called something island? Zero, 345-606-0973 why do brides families pay for weddings? We need a definitive answer on that. We've probably answered it, but we haven't gone definitive. Zero, 345-606-0973 Brian has said, james, where's my laugh out loud moment? I'm still waiting. This week I may apply for a refund. Well, you should have had laugh out loud moments by now, Brian. But actually, by sending me that text, you remind me that I never made my pledge at the beginning of this mystery that you would have at least one laugh out loud moment by the end of it. Ergo, there is no guarantee. Ergo, you do not qualify for a refund. Thank you very much. Corey is in Sheffield. Corey, question or answer? Hello. Question. But I know it's really late on. Are we all right to do this? Yeah, we'll be fine, mate. I probably know it myself. My goodness. You do push it to the wire. Yeah, well, I got to do that. It's a problem anyway. You're wasting the few bits and minutes that are left. Yes. No. Yes. Also, I feel I have to be really funny for Brian or whatever, isn't he? No, it's right. Because there was no promise this week that there'd be laugh out loud moments. Brian's got. Brian's got it backwards again. All right, well, there's lots of pressure on me. Okay, well, this is my question, right. Skirting boards. Right? What would happen if a house didn't have them? Would it collapse? You know, do we need them? Yeah. Oh, right. So what's the question? What? Why do we have them? Yeah. You've never done any plastering, have you, Corey? Well, my dad works in sort of, like, the building sector. I could ask him, but I thought I'd ask a national radio station. No, it's fine. It's very wise. Yeah. You're more. Much more reliable. But. But if you were, have you ever looked at. Have you ever removed a scutting board and looked at what's left? No. You can't plaster down to the floor. Rather, it's very, very difficult to do a neat job down to floor level. And not least because your floorboards are made of wood, therefore they are prone to weft and wane. They will bend a bit and absorb and move. So the gap between the bottom of the plastered wall and the wooden floorboard, whether you've got carpet or not, would be unsightly. Right. So you stick your skirting board in and it covers up the unsightly gap. So it's nothing to do with, like, shoes, like, hitting against the wall or anything? I wouldn't have thought so. But, I mean, that may have played a part in the process, but it's essentially a cosmetic decision to do. And also it stops mice. I mean, that's where mice come in. So that. That's the kind of. That's the seal on the wall that you can't really do with just wood and plaster. As in. As in floorboard and plaster? Well, thank you very much. That's a full answer. Yeah, it's pretty good. It's pretty good. I'm glad. I'm happy to be of service. Round of applause for me. Cheers. Corey, man, how you go? Ken's in Redbourne. Ken, question or answer? Oh, hi there. Question. Yes. Right. We are pushing it a bit. Yes, we've heard quite a lot in recent years about the whole code breaking thing. Bletchley Park, Alan Turing's group breaking the enigma machine. My question is, what was going on on the other side? So, in other words, in Germany, was there an equivalent of a Bletchley park and a group trying to break our codes? How did we encode our messages? And did we ever discover at the end of the war whether they'd ever broken our codes? I mean, I can only answer one question, Ken. Come on, mate. I suppose the question is, what was the german equivalent of the whole Bletchley park operation? Okay, it was b d, I think, wasn't it? Well, you can go on. Inform me, Deutscher Reichspost. Right now I'm just saying german words. I don't know. I mean, there must have been a german equivalent of batch, but otherwise we wouldn't have needed codes. And we definitely used codes, so someone must have been trying to break them. Yeah, I suppose the most interesting thing would be, did they ever break our code? Then we've moved it away from. Did the German. Let's just do that. Did the Germans ever break our code? Okay, we've got time. We've got two minutes. Unless Sheila Fergus knows the answer. Zero. 345-606-0973 Joseph Mason. Joe, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on, Joe. It's the islands question and everyone is pretty much right. There is no difference. Isles predate islands by about 300 years. Really? Yeah. So it was an age. Because it sounds old English, doesn't it? The Isle of dogs, as opposed to, you know, whatever island specifically the Isle of Sheppey. That's where I live. Was. There was aisles of. Because there was a number of islands. Yeah. Yeah. Qualifications? Swampy colloquial. That's the. A person from the Isle of Sheffield, born and bred. But. But how do you know that that's. Where did you get that 300 figure from? I think that's what happens when you live on an island. You can become obsessed with it. So you've looked it up, you've inquired into it, you've researched it, inquired into it during time. Parents, teachers. I don't know. At some point, somewhere in the back of my head, I'm going, oh, go on, then. Give them a round of applause. Sarah's in Chislehurst. Quickly, Sarah. Hi. Your point on the skirting board, I'm afraid that you have technically roll. How dare you? So the skirting board is there. It is there to cover the plaster, but the reason it's there to cover the plaster, it's nothing to do with it being difficult to plaster down to the floor. You can't plaster down to the floor because you get damp, because the floor, it wicks up. So if you. You're not allowed to plaster down to the floor, it's a construction rule that you have to leave a gap. And that's what it fills. An anonymous inspector, building inspector on Twitter, who is a respected account doing tweets about building inspecting in an anonymous corner of England, has been in touch while you were talking to say, love to the skirting board question. Bang on the money. I'm always ready for any construction related questions. So what are your qualifications? My qualifications are that about 40 years ago, when I was about four, we had a damp proofing man come to the house and came to the conclusion and addressed lots of the old houses by having to get rid of that had damp, by having to chip off all of the plaster to leave a gap in order that it didn't wick up the wall. See, I'm going with the build. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but only out of charity. Thank you. I appreciate it. Well, I thought you might say, no, I don't want your charity. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you'll hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. She was four. She deserved that round of applause. She was four. Just get back in your box. It's my mystery. Huh? I know, but it's great. I love it. She was four. Thank you, James. From three. A disabled woman has shamed two men who refused to give up seats earmarked for people with a disability. Should all public transport have these seats?