Why don't the animals we eat get rigor mortis? - 19 Nov 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet b c text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time some suggestions on precisely what David Cameron's new aeroplane had been should be called. I didn't ask for these, but I'm rather glad you sent them. I like this one. Con air. Very good indeed. And that's from f Galucci and Georgia suggests. I don't know if I can say that on air. I can go as far as this with incorrigible FCA. He suggests air pork one. I can't imagine why. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is underway. What's it all about? Well, give me a quick chance, I'll tell you. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need to join in. This is about knowledge. It's a celebration of knowledge, genuinely. It's about celebrating the fact that we actually can know stuff without having to look it up. This is amazing how much Google and search engines have changed the world. Even in the first hour. This morning, we're having a conversation about the EU and I mentioned, and a few of you have stuck it on Twitter now, so if you follow me, you'll be able to listen to some examples. I mentioned callers historically ringing in to complain about all the laws that are made in Brussels and then being able to name any that they actually have a problem with. One poor fellow emailed me the link to the Google page listing all the directives. That's kind of the point I was making. If you have to use Google to tell me how awful it is, you can't really explain convincingly why you think it's awful. And of course, there's a difference between laws that have been issued or directives that have been issued and ones that you genuinely resent having to obey. So Google, search engines, Bing, the Encyclopedia Britannica, whatever it may be, are all banned for this hour. You're going to hear a bunch of people ask a bunch of questions. They will all be questions to which the answers remain a mystery to the asker. You might know the answer, in which case you can pile in and win a mystery hour. Round of applause. The most prestigious prize available to listeners to british radio. And the point is, of course, you can't answer it unless you know the answer straight away. You can't look it up. So there's only really two rules for the questions and one rule for the answers. The two rules for the questions are no repetition, no dullness. Dullness very much in the eye of the beholder. I appreciate that. The general rule I have if someone new is producing the. For example, I say to them, if you're going to be interested in the answer to this question, stick it on the board. If you're genuinely not going to be interested in the answer to the question, chances are nobody else will be either. So if it's a question about, you know, an exit on your local roundabout and you're not quite sure where it goes or why it's there, that's not really going to translate into a massive item for a national radio station, but you'll get the gist of it anyway. And repetition, that's entirely our responsibility. If we can remember dealing relatively recently with a question, then we will politely invite you not to come on and ask it again. Six minutes after twelve. The only rule for answers, as just explained, is you can't look anything up. You absolutely can't look anything up. So when you come up with an answer, I'll ask you what your qualifications are for providing it to which any answer, I mean, it could be something you saw on the telly last week. By no stretch of the imagination, has to be academic qualification. You say, I saw it on David Attenborough, or I saw it on the do that donkey. Or it could be that you learned it when you were doing your PhD in theoretical metaphysics. I don't know how you got your qualifications, that's why I'll ask you. Okay. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need to get through, but you'll only hear me say it when I have a phone line free. And that is rare this hour, very rare. I used to say it's by far the busiest hour of the week, but to be honest with you, in recent weeks the switchboard has been so busy and I've only got ten lines into the building and they're all full all the time, so I can't really tell whether it's any busier than it is the rest of the time. That's not showing off, that's saying thank you. All right. Seven minutes after twelve, Sean is in Bishop Stortford to kick us off. Shaun, what's your question? Here's an answer. Everyone's a comedian. What's going on with the kid? No, we're turning the corner, Sean, we're turning the corner. Okay. Under Dave Hackaday, our magnificent new manager. Two wins on the turn. But anyway, I'm not sure that would fall into the category of is everybody else interested in the answer to that question? Okay. Anyway, I was, I was on the phone to you last week about champagne corks and I told my son that I was on the radio, he was very proud and he said, how do you get fizzy drinks into cans? As in the ring pool. Oh, yeah. How does that work? I like that. Probably, probably. The lid is added after the drink, isn't it? They put it into a sealed canister and then they slightly score the surface, don't you think? You know where the ring pull has that? Well, yeah, the ring pool, but he's actually the top of the can. I worked in recruitment for a bit and I supplied some staff to Britvick and I saw them putting fizzy drinks into bottles and that is actually the can. Yeah, bottles are easy. I can easily work out bottles, but the can. How do you get. How do they do that? How did they do that? That's my tv show. I'm going to pitch, I think, later. How did they do that, Sean? We'll find out for you. How do they. It's for your son rather than for you. I like that. Father and son bonding as a direct result of mystery. And you see, Sean was on long, so all the people who we man, we complaining about not being able to get through, you need to trust me when I tell you you need to be quick, you need judicious use of redial and you need to be absolutely charming to Beth and Jess, who are answering the phones today. Nine minutes after twelve, George is in ealing. George, question or answer? Question for you. Yes. What? Why is it? Or what is it? Or what's happening when you bash your elbow and your funny bone, for a better word, activates. Activates? Well, sassy, there is no better word than activates. Your funny bone activates. In what way do you mean what's happening? I mean a medical explanation or. I mean, it's nerves, isn't it? And, well, but we have nerves all over our body, but yet it's only our funny bone in our elbow when we bash it in a certain place that it happens, isn't it? So why, why do funny bones work? Why do funny bones. How do funny bones work? And why do funny bones work? Yeah, what is, what is happening to make that funny bone work? And what is that tingling sensation? I love the idea. I'll be in the kitchen later knocking up some dinner and I'll go, oh, blimey. And misses O'Brien. I'll go. What's wrong, darling? I said I'm just acting. Activated my funny. Ten minutes after twelve funny bones and fizzy drinks, Zach's in Minneapolis. Wow. Transatlantic mystery out this week. Question or answer, Zack? Question, please, carry on. I'm thinking that's not a dramatic pause. Are you still there, Zack? Well, that was fun. Richard is intuiting. Richard, question or answer? Are we going to be able to keep the line to tooting clear? Question or answer, Richard? It's a question, mate. Carry on. How do you navigate in space? I've never been there. No, neither have I. How does one navigate in space? Let's get the semantics correct on this. How does one navigate in space? Why? I'm a bit of a dope on these sort of issues, so you'll have to explain to me why that's a mystery. Well, I've just watched lots and lots of Sci-Fi films and I was watching one the other day, just wondered, how on earth do you navigate? Because why? Wouldn't. Remind me why a compass wouldn't work? Well, because compasses work with the poles from the earth. I know, I'm just establishing the parameters of the question. So compasses wouldn't work. Why couldn't you use the star? Why couldn't you use the stars or the moon or other planets to navigate? Well, because they're constantly moving, aren't they? See? Another good answer. Right. There we go. What's that line in. What's that line in pulp fiction? Do you remember there's a character called Zack in pulp fiction? I don't remember. There's an Uma thermal, sir, at one point. Zack's back, baby. Zed. Oh, Zed's back. Not Zack's back. Anyway, we've got Richard's question on the board. Zed's dead, but Zack's back from Minneapolis. Zack, what's your question? Yeah, can you hear me, James? I can. Zack, it's great to have you on board. I'm so glad you're back. Zack, what's your question? I'd like to know if, given optimum conditions, if a plant, like a redwood tree, can die of simply old age. Because some trees are thousands of years old, right? So if you provide the conditions in which no harm is being done to that tree, it can do everything a tree needs to do ad infinitum. Would it live for? How would anyone be qualified to answer that? I'm hoping that Professor Hal, he has all the answers, so maybe he'll know. Are you a regular? Or do you listen regularly to Mister from Minneapolis? I do, and I've been waiting to call in for quite some time. How's that, mate? It's a pleasure and a privilege. That's fantastic. Reaching out across the water, two peoples divided by a common language, but united by a common interest in strange facts and knowledge. Can a plant or a tree? Because there is no natural expiry date. There's a yew tree, isn't there? In Britain somewhere. The oldest tree in Britain. That's it. Changed sex recently, whatever that means. But reading that story, I remember it was older than I think it was growing before Jesus was born. 30 minutes after twelve is the time. Let's get a question for Zack. Let's get an answer. So, optimum conditions. Will trees live forever? How do you navigate in space? What? What is happening when your funny bone is activated? And how do fizzy drink cans work? 1213 is the time. Julie is in Fulham. Hi, James. Cheer up, Julie, it's mystery hour. Yeah, I'm all right. I've done pondering on my own question. Oh, yeah? I've often wondered why a male seahorse. Obviously, the baby grows in the male and it gives birth to it, not the female one, you say? Obviously. I think some people might find that slightly surprising. It's a fact. Yes, I know, but it's not obvious. Well, maybe not, but I've known it since I'm pretty young. Are you sure that there are. I thought seahorses were kind of a bit androgynous or something. I don't know that. I don't know that side of it, James. I just know the fact that. Well, I presume it's a fact that the male gives birth. And obviously, if it gives birth, it obviously grows in the male horse, Seahorse. But why not? I mean, why shouldn't it? I don't know. I don't. I don't know the ins and outs, as much as I know, is that the Seahorse gives birth. There's no doubt, as far as I'm aware, nobody knows why. Yeah, but I'm going to put the question on the board and. But I know, and I will allow a round of applause for someone who tells us that nobody knows why from an academically qualified perspective. Okay, James. I always dedicate questions like yours to my old geography teacher from school. Whenever we asked him anything that wasn't in the curriculum, he'd say, don't know. Nobody knows, don't need to know. And that was the end of the conversation. So, Julie. Yes? He said, don't know, don't need to know. Nobody knows. 40 minutes after twelve is the time. Seahorses, trees, spaceships, funny bones and fizzy drinks. Come on, what's not to like this? 20 minutes after twelve, Jones, the engineer who has moved on to a very senior management role within LBC Towers. He returns every Thursday from twelve to help on mystery hour because he loves it so much. He just said in my ear, I'm glad I'm here, James, because we've got a new team at the moment. We're working on new tracks. And he said, I'm glad I'm here, James. I just had to get them to knock. The worst question we've ever had. He was about to get on air and I've decided to leave it on the switchboard and I'm going to play a little game. It's going to come up in the next three questions will be the question that Jones, the engineer, who is the only other surviving member of the original mystery hour team than me, the question that he has described as the worst we've ever had, is coming up in the next three questions. So will you be able to work out what it is? We'll start with Simon in Croydon. Simon, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, sir. It's. You were right. It's about the filling of carbonated drinks into a can. The can, the bottom section is filled first and then the top is crimped on. This is all done at very high speed. You got 1500. In a filling line they do about 1500 a minute. So basically, the drink goes into the lower, the bottom container and the extra drink container that has a lip and the lid is crimped on at high speed. And that's it, basically. Oh, so the metal folds over the lid to make a hermetic seal. To make an airtight seal. That's right, yeah. On the container below, there's a little lid and the lid is pushed down and then it crimps over with a bit of heat, presumably to seal it. Yeah, but at very high speed. And the lid, then the ring pull and everything is in place before the lid is pulled. Preformed. A sense there that he knows what he's talking about. What are your qualifications, Simon? I have an invention which is designed to go down a filling line, but the bottom section isn't aluminium, it's plastic, designed to go into the events market where you have to serving in paper or plastic cups. There's a gap, isn't there, in that mold? I hope there is for yourself. You get queues in venues and sports grounds and stuff for bars because they have to dispense into plastic or paper cups. So this would, you would remove the lid wholly so we don't have a wrinkle. We twist the top. It comes off and served in a plastic cup. Takes about 2 seconds to serve instead of 14. Yeah, good luck with that. How far down the road are you towards production? All patented up and just trying to get a brewery to take us out, basically. Fantastic stuff. Now go and tell me what it's called. Sorry? The bevypak bi and then p a k, like Tetra Pack. If you do as well as them, Simon, then I'll be coming to you soon. I think they'll be very happy. I think they're the richest people in the world. Almost. Now the rousing, great work from Simon there. And you see, though, the caliber of caller to mystery artist continues to astound. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Remember, I'll only say the number if I've got phone lines free. So this bid farewell to Simon. There's two phone lines free at the moment. You can grab one of them if you're very quick questions. Still in need of answers. Precisely what happens when you activate your funny bone? How do you navigate in space? Is it possible? Can a tree live forever? Some of the redwoods, the giant redwoods in Canada are thousands of years old. There are trees in this country that are older than the country, older than the nation itself. Can they live forever? I don't know if you'll be able to answer that question in the positives because you couldn't prove. Well, we'll see. And why do male seahorses carry the babies? The gestation period. Right. And remember, in the next three questions, we will hear the one that Jones the engineer has described as the worst question that's ever been submitted to mystery hour. I wonder if we'll be able to work out what it is. John is in Horsham. John, question or answer? It is a question. James. Hello. You're nervous now, aren't you? Yeah, I'm thinking. I'm wondering if mine's the last ever question. I'm not giving anything away. Go on, John. What's the question? Right. The question is. Okay, right. So when a body dies, and I mean human and animal, after a few hours, rigor mortis sets in, doesn't it? And it goes hard and it goes it, you know, and all the meats and muscles and everything. Yeah. Stiffens up. I think so what I want to know is how do we get juicy breasts of chicken and legs of lamb, soft and beef and all that within a matter of hours? And I'm talking hours. I mean, the rig of all it says and it's just I'm really, I'm really. It's sort of perplexes me as to how we manage to do it. Is there something they do to the meat or. I don't know, I just had a penny drop. It could be completely wrong. But isn't it because we drain the blood from the carcasses of the animals that they don't stiffen up? Yeah, but do we drain all the blood? I mean, you know, if I cook a rare piece, if. I mean, I love Philip steak blue, you know, and it still has blood in it. Yeah. I mean, my missus always saying that steak is bloody, you know, so it has. I just. I don't know. I don't know if it's the blood that causes the. Or if they do something to the meat. And it's just always perplexed me. And I was trying to get on last week, but you were so busy last week. The show was flabbed last week. I can reassure you that you're not the. And I didn't want to use Google, I wanted to get the answer. It's a really good question. I probably have something to do with blah blah. I was just thinking out loud so I was never going to get a round of applause for it. Anyway, when. When people die, rigor mortis sets in really quickly. So how come animals. We eat them without, apparently them having been affected by any similar phenomenon? Well, because, I mean, if my cat brings in a dead mouse by the morning, it's stiff as anything. Exactly. I think we'll leave it there. John, it's 26 minutes after twelve. Cameron's in Mitcham. Cameron, question or answer? Hi, James. It was originally a question, but now that I'm the third person, I'm kind of thinking twice. No, you're the second person. You're the second person. The first person was an answer that. You're only two out of three. So there is. It's not guaranteed that this is the worst question in the history of mystery hour, but you're still a contender. Go on. Okay, my question is, why is mystery hour always on a Thursday? So it is the one. I knew it. Is it? Of course it is. Just a daft question. Why is mister chair on a Thursday? Which is. But why? Which day would make more sense on a weekend? Because I'm not here on the weekend. I'm not here on the weekend. Well, you could come for Mitsrio only. Why don't you come to. Why don't you leave your neglected, mewling children, your puppy and your cats at home for a couple of hours of the weekend and come in and do mischievous then for no reason whatsoever other than Cameron thinks there's something a bit strange about doing it on Thursdays. Well, I'm not curious enough during the weekend. Weekdays, I don't have enough time to think about anything. The weekend would make more sense to answer your question in two separate ways. Number one is, I'm not on air at the weekend. And number two, we do it on a Thursday because the very first time we did it happened to be a Thursday and it went so well, it stuck. And that's my round of Applause right there. You know, it's a free podcast as well. You don't have to listen live, right? Okay. You can go to LBC dot co dot UK, or you can go to iTunes and you can download not just this week's, but I mean years worth of podcasts, absolutely free. So you could listen to, hey, you could listen to it at the weekend. Okay, I do. I'll start doing that from now on. Look at that. The 21st century galloping to Cameron's rescue. Thank you, mate. Thank you for being a good sport as well. Stuart Zimbarnet. Question or answer, Stuart? I've got an answer. Come on, then. It's to the tree. All right. Even if you were to feed the tree hydroponically and have it in a low gravity situation and with the perfect light setup, eventually it will die because of cell replication. Cells can only replicate a certain amount of times and so therefore all living things come to an end. Qualification. It's fine, but this is a kind of a weak point with me. I have grown things with those kind of conditions. Okay? I mean, I don't want you to. I drive a white man. I don't know. I don't want you to incriminate yourself in any way. Those days are long gone. But I have experience with growing trees. Okay. And eventually cell replication will cease. Yes. Because on a DNA level, nobody. How can it. If it's cell replication, how does it know how many replications there's been previously because of a chemical that is attached to the ends of each strand of DNA? Really persuasive. That is true. That is. That was genuinely on. Must be the Discovery Channel or my daughter's homework or something. Go on. Then go on. You've yanked my chain. I'll be coming back for that. Round of applause, Stuart. White van or no white van, it's 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 25 to one. Questions still in need of answers include, what exactly happens when your funny bone goes funny? How do you navigate in space? And a couple of you have pointed out the question are actually asked, how on earth do you navigate in space? It's a beautiful sort of turn of phrase, but he means in space, not on earth. Why do male seahorses gestate? And why does rigor maltis not affect or not seem to affect the meat, what we eat? Leslie is in Brentford. Leslie, question or answer? Question, please carry on. And it can only get better from, after all, wise mystery hour on a Thursday. You say that, Leslie, but I think we might be having a stewards inquiry on my own answer to that question. Watch this. Space, bearing in my nature, is so amazing and full of so many wonderful miracles and just sort of takes care of itself. Why have we not evolved? So that giving birth is anything more than painful and complicated and excruciating. Why? Bear in mind, we all have to do it in order to bring a baby into the world. Why have we not evolved? And it's still. I mean, it's amazing, but I've never heard anyone say when they've given birth. Yep, that was a breeze. Can't wait to do that one again. What? Why? Why is it so painful? Why is giving birth so painful? Yes. Why shouldn't it be? Bearing in mind we all have to do it, wouldn't you think nature would have made it a very easy process? Well, I see there's two questions here, because obviously, the obvious answer to your question is, oh, that wasn't meant to happen. Carry on. I'll ignore that. Are you sure that's wise? Well, no. Yes. Okay, go on. Yeah, carry on. All right. The obvious answer would be that the aperture is a lot smaller than that which needs to pass through it. That's. That's what. And you need a lot of nerves in that neck of the woods for a whole variety of reasons that I won't be going into at 1237 on a Thursday afternoon. Yeah. And the question of, why haven't we evolved? There won't be an answer to that, because. Do you know what I always think about when you look at how evolution really doesn't seem to have delivered yet everything. It should have teeth. Right. Teeth are stupid. Yeah. This isn't helping. Me? Teeth. Well, think about teeth. Teeth. How have we not evolved just to have sort of like chompy plates in our mouth that don't get rotten, don't fall out, don't get cavities? Phone mystery. I have about that one. Yeah, but it's the same, the answer. Just because that evolution. We're not perfect is the answer. Evolution isn't complete. But, I mean, this is the basic. No, actually, I can. All right, I'll give you an evolutionary answer. Here you go. Because your likelihood to breed is not diminished by the pain of birth. So the only circumstances in which the genes that had somehow created a physiognomy that minimized the pain of birth would be. I wish I hadn't found. What. What's the point of me doing this if you're not going to appreciate it? I could have. I could have done that. Why didn't you tell me? I'm telling you now. The only circumstances in which evolution plays a role in the replication of genes is when that gene's replication increases the likelihood of further replication. So in order for you to have somehow replicated the genes that delivered a less painful birth, you'd have to have. Well, you'd still want to. People would. People still. I'm going to phone up next time and ask, why is mystery out on a Thursday? Well, the ultimate answer to your question is because people still want to do it, even though it hurts a lot. 1238. Where's my round of applause? Teeth, though. Why haven't we evolved to get rid of teeth? There's a question. Rob is in Sussex. That's a big place. Whereabouts in Sussex are you, Rob? Kind of near East Grinstead. Carry on, sir. Hello, and thank you for taking the call. I've got an answer for the gentleman who asked about how you navigate in space, but I fear I might disappoint, because when you clarified, you mentioned that it was without Earth, effectively. But for the sake of argument, I'll carry on. When you're in space, NASA especially, have a deep space network, and what they do is they ping a transmitting signal to a probe. The probe picks up and. From the spaceship? Yes. Yeah. From a probe or a spaceship or anything would ping the signal back at Earth and then the people on the ground would then. Or people in space could then calculate, using a speed, distance over time, just how fast they're moving, what direction they're moving, the trajectory, etcetera. And that's how you'd navigate from Earth, in a spaceship in the. So you couldn't do it without you. Couldn't do it without Earth. So when we were giggling and saying, how on earth do you navigate in space? Actually, we shouldn't have been giggling, because it is on Earth that you navigate. All you need is a reference point so you could pick something really, really far away to navigate yourself around the local area. So you were in one galaxy, you pick another galaxy and use that as a reference point and then calculate your distance from that all the time. But that would be obviously very difficult because it would take such a long time for the signals to get back and forth. Qualifications, Rob? Degree, angiology. I think that'll do, won't it? Round of applause for Rob. Nicely done. 1240. I've got some quite important breaking news for you at this time. I'm just hearing that Abdul Hamid aboud, the suspected ringleader of the attacks upon Paris this weekend, was killed in those police raids yesterday. We will cross live to Paris for the very latest updates on that in a matter of moments. If you're just tuning in and you're unaware of this, prosecutors say the suspected mastermind of the Paris attacks, Abdel Hamid Abba Oud, was killed in those police raids yesterday in the Saint Denis area of France. His body was found riddled with bullets and shrapnel. More on that. As I say, as it develops, zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need to join mystery hour. Tracy is in Hawkhurst. Tracy, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Okay. Why isn't the pasteurized egg yolk I use cooked? Why is it not cooked and hard? I've just instructed the producers not to put through a question unless they're really interested in the answer to it. And you're asking me why does pasteurizing not cook an egg? Yes, because they use really low temperatures. Okay, thank you very much. You're very welcome. Round of applause for me. Cheers. Bye bye. Thank you, Tracy. Professor Hal is in. Oh, all right. Go on, then. Hello, James. Hi, Hal. How are you? I'm all right. Me too. What's up? I'd like to address some of the misconceptions that were just uttered about evolution. Yeah, right. Okay. First and foremost, human birth is actually very painful because our head size has increased, whereas the gap in the pelvic girdle hasn't. And that's why pelvic girdle. Again, pelvic girdle, carry on. Which is why it's particularly painful. And we've had to sort of, from time to time off, things like c sections. So it's got more painful over the generations. Yes. Our head size has increased substantially because. Because there is an evolutionary advantage to having a bigger brain. So that would increase the likelihood of you passing on your genes. Shall I just shut up? No, don't. But the point is that the notion of evolution is that it's almost like a strategy to get better and better. It's actually not. It happens by chance. Point mutations cause by chance a difference, which may be a good difference or a bad difference, and those that inherit the good difference may then find some advantage, as you've correctly alluded to, and then have a better chance of procreating, whereas those with bad differences clearly won't. So the giraffes that happened to have a longer neck could reach higher and pick the leaves off the trees. They didn't sort of stretch their necks or grow them, it was just the longer neck. Giraffes had the advantage and therefore they procreated. The other ones died out and so on and so forth. What did I get wrong then? No, I said misconceptions. The point was evolution. There was an overriding, overriding sort of tendency to say that evolution would do this and do that. It doesn't do anything. It's a process which hasn't got a strategy. And teeth, by the way. Yeah, teeth. Teeth are actually very good. Enamel is the hardest natural known substance, and it's only in the last 500 years, perhaps since elizabethan times, our sugar diet has caused these issues. Yeah, I guess you're right, actually. But you could die of a toothache. I suppose that was after sugar started being eaten a lot. A tooth infection, not a toothache, obviously. But I think evolution, it takes longer if you're going to completely change teeth. But I'm not sure there's anywhere they can go with teeth. It's fit for purpose. Yeah, no, I know. That's why I said chompy metal plates. I realized that it was an unlikely thing to occur. I should stress, because I was so flippant with you at the outset. People who are listening are new, or for the first time, would be fascinating to learn that you are the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Delighted. Thank you very much. Do you need a round of applause for these clarifications, do you think? If it's there, I mean, let's have a look. Thank you very much indeed, Professor Howe. Michelle Clifford is live in Paris with Sky News, but she joins me on the line now. The body has been identified as the suspected ringleader, Abdel Hamid Abaoud. This is the Saint Denis raids yesterday, is it, Michelle? Yes, that's right. He was the individual who was shot dead by police. Two people were killed in that attack, one a suicide bomber, the other was shot dead by police. And the forensic teams here were analyzing DNA from his body to establish exactly who he was. And we're told now in a statement from the Paris prosecutor, it was indeed him, and he was actually identified through saliva traces. So that's obviously a very big moment for the french police and the prosecutor here, because he is the man that it has been alleged from the very start was the mastermind behind the attacks, not a man who took part in the attack tax directly, but he was essentially the brains who did the coordination, and they were desperate to get him. That's why we saw such a massive police operation yesterday during that raid launched at 430 in the morning. From the outset, the reports were that he was inside that building and we saw over 130 armed police officers engaged in the raid. It lasted for, the shoe tap itself, lasted for over an hour. And the prosecutor revealed last night that the police actually fired off 5000 separate rounds. So I think that gives you an idea of just how intense the battle was. And there were grenades thrown during the operation, which has partially led to the building being destroyed. But the headline news today, which will be perceived as a massive coup for the police in Paris, is that the alleged mastermind of the attacks last Friday is now officially dead. Michelle Clifford, very briefly, can you remind us of the intelligence that led police to his door? Well, they would be say that they had witnessed information, somebody pitched them off that he first of all was in France, and then they got more information that he was actually residing in that area. But they also then substantiated that by phone tapping and other information, and they were able to pin down, they thought him to that property and other alleged terrorists. They felt pretty confident yesterday morning. And, I mean, it was a massive operation. It was very well planned indeed. They used drones and robots to assist in the operation, but they had had a tip off from the witness. They had information, they had used phone tapping and other corroborating information. They moved in. And it seems now that the prosecution, according to the prosecutor here, they have indeed got their man identified from saliva traces. Michelle Clifford for Sky News and indeed for LBC in Paris, many thanks indeed. If you're just joining us, the suspected ringleader of the Paris attacks is, according to the french prosecutor's office, dead, killed during those raids in the Saint Denis region yesterday. Abdel Hamid Abaoud was killed in the Saint Denis raid. Michelle Clifford telling us there that the DNA, evidenced culled from his saliva, was responsible for the identification. Some reports claiming it was a fingerprint. But either way, little doubt, or indeed close to no doubt, that the french authorities have killed the man responsible for the attacks in Paris on Friday night. The time now is 1240 712 52. There's not a lot of time left, but there are still a few questions in need of resolutions. A funnybone. The redwood trees. We've done the trees. Yeah, we've done the trees. Although Zack's been back in touch, there is a song called Zack's Back. It's in that film seven psychopaths. It wasn't from pulp fiction, I grant you, but Zack's back is a. Is a thing. I wasn't going completely mad. And Zack has been back in touch by email to say he wasn't entirely happy with the answer. I'm not sure we're going to be able to improve upon it in the time available. Zack. So I apologize for letting you down. The seahorses gestation practices. It's the male that does the bulk of the work, which is odd and possibly unique in the natural world. Have we any idea why? And given that rigor mortis is clearly a thing, how come the meat we eat is so sweet and tender? Zero 345-606-0973 if we can answer any of those very briefly. The breaking news this hour, of course, is that Abdel Hamid aboud, the suspected mastermind of the Paris terror attacks, was killed in that raid in Saint Denis yesterday. And it seems to me a pertinent moment just to reflect briefly on all of the controversy that's thrown up whenever anybody suggests that it was a shame that somebody like that was killed. So you might say it was a shame that Osama bin Laden was killed, or a shame that so called. Well, I don't use his nickname. I call him Mohammed Mwazi was killed. And I think I just understood why when that story dropped there, because it takes away immediately any chance of ever finding out as much as you possibly could about who was behind him, who was helping him, what he was doing, how he did. I mean, yes, you can dig into the back story, you can dig into the past, you can dig into the evidence, but none of it will be as powerful as being able to interrogate the individuals responsible. So when you hear somebody saying that, I think that's all they mean. I don't think people like Jeremy Corbyn are saying, oh, it'd be great if Osama bin Laden could still be running around free. I think they're saying it would have been great if we could have caught him and absolutely filleted him of information, rather than seeing that opportunity disappear forever, as we just have in the Paris case. Although I can't imagine any right thinking person on the planet will be mourning the news that this monster is dead. Philip. Sorry. Back to the lighter hearted territory of mystery, our phillips in Gothso. Question or answer? Philip? Hi, good afternoon. It's an answer to the why you go stiff and then you go, whoa, the meat. Why you can eat. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. We've got. We've got a sexual health program running at the weekends now. Presented by Lucy Beresford. I just need to clarify why carcasses and corpses stiffen up under rigor mortis. I don't want you to answer the other bit, necessarily. No, keep that one away. The basic premise is that you have two chemicals and your body that's in muscles. One's called actin, one's called myosin. And when you activate a muscle, they form a breakable bond and they kind of pull each other along like a rower rowing through a river. And that's what pulls the muscle and makes it contract. You have an enzyme which breaks that bond down and it continually keeps reforming. When you die, that enzyme is no longer produced. And so that bond goes into a continuous mode. So it sticks. It sticks and it's firm. It sticks stiffly. Then after a period of, shall we say, decomposition, that bond begins to break down and you loosen back up again. Oh. So the stuff we eat did go through rigor mortars and then it just softened up again. You kill a cow and within. Within half an hour to an hour, be stiff as a board. Qualifications? I've got BSc, honours in human biology. That'll do great work, Philip. Terry's in Stoke Newton. Terry, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Terry. It's the seahorse question. The male doesn't actually lay eggs. He takes them off the female. The female produces the eggs. He protects them from predation for a period until they hatch, and then he just releases them. I knew the question was, why not how? Why is it the man that does it, not the woman? The male seahorse doesn't actually give birth. No, I know, I know, I know. But we don't know why is the answer and nobody knows. But I'm going to give you a round of applause for telling us the bit that we do know. All right? Okay. Okay. Cheers, Terry. Don't know. Don't need to know. Nobody knows. Hazel is in Hammersmith. Question or answer? Hazel. Hello, James. It's an answer. Carry on. An answer to the question about the funny bone. Yes. What's going on? So what's happening is that when you hit that small area on your elbow, you're hitting the ulnar nerve against the end of the humerus, hence the name funny bone. Yes. And it's the ulnar nerve that supplies feeling to the little finger and the ring finger and that's where you get the funny pins and needles feeling. Oh, qualifications? I'm a nurse. Have you phoned in before? I have. It was actually an elbow question a couple of weeks ago. Why the elbow does what the elbow does. The question was, what's the inside of the elbow called? So you are now the official mystery hour elbow expert? Yes, I seem to be. Hazel. That's fantastic. Hazel the elbow expert there. Thank you very much. Knocking another one out of the park. Thank you, Hazel. Ricardo is in Felton. Question or answer, Ricardo? I have an answer. Stewart's inquiry. James Stewart's inquiry. Which question? Yeah. Why is Mister Allen a Thursday? Well, how can you know more about that than me? It's my life. Because you produce a lot of shows. I just listened. So you've got to remember a hell of a lot more than I do. Yeah, go on, go on. Right. So from what I remember, Tuesday was the Tuesday free for all. Oh, yeah. Wednesday was prime minister's questions, Thursday was mystery hour, Friday was John Fishing's world of sport. And then you put in the quiz of the week and that also went. So I believe mystery hour is a long line of kind of additions that eventually went by the wayside but managed to stay mate. What happened on Mondays? I don't think we had a Monday, mate, other than you had the. Do you know what? I can't remember the treasure hunt, but I don't know if that was Monday treasure hunt as well. Yeah, you're right. John Cushing's world of. You've just phoned up to correct me. You correct me on a fact about my own program. Pretty much, man, I want to get the world of sport back. I miss it. I'll tell. Pass your thoughts on to John Cushing. He's a very important man. Now, round of applause for Ricardo. I can't believe that's just happened. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. I think we ticked everything off the board, didn't we? Pretty much. What an astounding mystery hour that was. I'm James O'Brien. This is LBC, and the next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James.