Why do bagels have holes? - 17 Dec 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Look, we'll get stuck into Mystery hour in a minute. I've just got a couple of things I want to get off my chest first. If you follow me on Twitter jamesob. Another story regarding our favourite MP of the week, Lucy Allen, the MP for Telford, has just emerged that I think you'll be interested in. Thanks to Amir for bringing it to my attention. If you follow at Mister James OB, you can see that. And the second thing is, I'm not across this story, so if I misspeak now, will you just cut me some slack and give me a break? Why the hell does Simon Cowell's burglar get possible burglar get broadcast CCTV images all up and down the nation when people who can afford to lose the stuff, what got burgled a lot less than he can effectively have to whistle for it when their front room gets cleaned out? If my anger hasn't dissipated by tomorrow, I think we're going to look at that story. I've been burgled. I was absolutely flabbergasted at the lack of appetite to consult all these cameras that I walk past every day and say, why can't you check that camera over there? What about the one outside lab, Brooks? What about that one? I'm not blaming the police, just wondering whether it's one law for Simon Cowell and another law for the rest of us. But I probably will have calmed down by tomorrow, so don't hold your breath on that one. Right. It's Thursday. It's five minutes after twelve. That can mean only one thing. It's time for mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to get an answer to the questions that have had you puzzled for the longest time. If you're not familiar with this feature, can we call it a feature? It sounds a bit grown up. If you're not familiar with this nonsense, let me give you a quick explanation. It's the sort of live broadcast equivalent of the newspaper columns, whether you would write in pursuit of an answer to a question. Why do we do that? What's the origin of that? Where does that come from? When, what, why, where, when, whither and even the occasional whence. Anything pretty much goes on this. The only rules are threefold. Number one, it has to be a question to which the answer is knowable and likely to be interesting to other people rather than just you. So if it's a question about the curious habits of your toenail cutting regime, probably best if you keep it to yourself. Okay. And also, it can't be, what's the meaning of life? Obviously, it's got to be a question to which it is highly plausible someone else will know the answer. The problem is that someone is not you. Okay. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. I'll only say it when I've got phone lines free. You won't get through now, but in a couple of minutes time you might, because a lot of people will be ringing up with questions that actually break the rules that I'm currently explaining to you. So it has to be plausible and it has to be interesting to other people. Don't be dull. I've kind of touched on that already. And repetition, which is not your fault. But if you ring in with a question that we can remember, Jones the engineer has returned to the team this week. A bit like. Sort of like David Beckham re signing for Manchester United or something like that. He's just returned for the glory of mystery hour. So, between the two of us, we've been doing this for more years than we care to remember. We should be able to remember anything we've dealt with relatively recently, which is a lovely opportunity to refer you to the website as well, where there is an archive of questions that we've previously dealt with, but which today. Special offer. Christmas cheer cheer abounds. Peace and goodwill to all men. We've got the best of mystery Hour 2015 up on the website as well. The most popular question of 2015. I was really disappointed, I'm not going to lie to you. I thought it was quite a boring one. Shows what I know. Maybe I have to review the dullness rule. If you want to go and have a look yourself at the highlights of mystery hour 2015, then go to LBC dot co dot UK. That'll do it, won't it? I think if you're still not clear, then just suck it and see you listen in and work out what we're doing. If you hear somebody ask a question to which you do know the answer, you have to ring in, otherwise your radio might melt. Zero 3456-060-9737 minutes off at twelve is the time and Sam is in Liverpool. Sam, what's your question? Hello, James. Hi, mate. Yeah, well, basically, quite simply. Oh, not basically. That's bad. I was wondering, can you melt diamonds? What? What? What? Yeah. Can you melt a diamond, the hardest thing in nature? There's lot. There's lots of things you can't melt. Like what? Coal. Well, sure. At some point or another, the atoms have got. What do you mean by melt? Will turn it into a liquid or gas. Oh, they are sticking with coal. Well, you can't. This is what I'm trying to pinpoint, exactly what you mean by melt. Would that include burn? Can you break down a diamond? Is that what you're asking? Can you break it down molecularly or. Oh, man, you're making me feel stupid. Why? Have you put through a question? No, you're making me feel stupid. What do you mean, Sam, what do you mean? Look, can you melt a diamond? Can it go from a solid state to a liquid state with enough temperature and still be a diamond? So it would be like liquid diamond? Liquid diamond, yeah. I think you've just answered your own question, haven't you? Well, can you, though? Have you ever heard of liquid diamond, though? But maybe there's a temperature not hot enough to do that, but we know of it. Oh, I see. So theoretical liquid diamond, something like that. All their albums. Can you melt the diamond? I don't know. I hate it on these occasions because I start taking the mickey out of a question. So then I say, in an attempt to sort of introduce a little false modesty and cover myself from sounding patronizing, well, I don't know if that's a brilliant question or a rubbish question, where obviously inside I'm going, what a rubbish question. And then something happens in the course of the ten minutes follow. That makes it clear. It was actually a brilliant question. I'm going to go on a limb. I don't think that's going to happen here. Can you melt a diamond? Zero. 345-606-0973 Sean's in Bishop Storeford. Shaun, question or answer? Merry Christmas to you and LBC. That's very decent, yes, thank you. Season's greetings to you, Sean. Thank you very much. There's a finite amount of dimples on a golf ball. Pardon? On a golf ball. Right. There is a finite amount of dimples. That is statutory on a golf ball. Is there? Yeah, apparently. So you can't have more than x number of them. How can you know that there is a finite statutory limit on the amount of dimples you can have on a golf ball but not know how many it is? I don't believe you. I don't believe you. Yeah, well, you should. How can you pick up the first bit of information without picking up the second bit at the same time? So when you discovered that there's a limit to the amount of dimples you can have on a golf ball, under what possible planet would you not respond by saying, oh, is that so? How many? Yeah. Well, that's. There is a finite number. There's a certain number that you can have within the person. Who told you that. Why didn't you ask them how many it was? Well, because I'm asking you. How could you have been given that information without seeking the next nugget of knowledge? I don't understand. Well, I work well, I supply staff to cobra, which were a factor of managed manufacturers of golf balls and golf clubs. And you didn't think to ask any of them? Well. Well, no. That's why it's mystery out. Do you know, it's a bit like you coming into my pub, me saying to you, I'm afraid there is a limit on the amount of drinks I can serve you this evening. And you don't say how many? Well, it could be anywhere between one and twelve. But you'd want to know. If I told you there was a limit, you'd want to know what it was, wouldn't you? There is. There's a statutory limit on the dimples on a golf ball and there are people out there that will probably know it. 412. 412? No, I know it's in the 300s, but there's a certain limit. Do you know the answer? Are you yanking my chain, Sean? No, no, not yanking the chain. I just. I play golf and I've just always. You could just count them, then. Well, yeah, yeah. Get alive. Happy Christmas. It's 1211. Annette is in County Durham. From one end of the country to the other. Annette, question or answer? Question, please. Yes. I want to know why on vicars and priests, it's called a dog collar, because we were having this debate last weekend and nobody seems to know the answer. So why is it called a dog collar or why do they have dog collars? Why is it called a dog collar? I know it is like a collar, but it seems very derogatory term to say for a vicar or priest, a dog collar. And I just want to know why it's called a dog collar. I think the answer will be really boring and then it will be because it looks like a dog collar. I think that's what we thought as well, but we couldn't find it on the Internet, so I thought I'd ring you because the most knowledgeable person that I know of. That's one of the nicest things anybody has ever said to me. But I haven't got a Scooby Doo what the answer to your question is. So we'll have to find someone more knowledgeable than me and they can get in touch. 0345. Yes, it's a good point that actually, given the respect in which the clergy have historically been held, whether rightly or wrongly, the idea that you'd call it a dog collar is a little derogatory. I like that. Can you melt a diamond? How many dimples? What's the maximum number of dimples you can have on a golf ball? And why is a priest's neckwear called a dog collar? Duncan is in the elephant and castle. Duncan. Question or answer? It is a question, Mister O'Brien. How are you? How are you, by the way? I'm pretty good, mate. You? Yeah. I'm not sure about the dimple question, really. If it turns out to be true, then I think it's a good question. If there is a finite number statutory imposed upon golf ball manufacturers. Be setting myself up for a fall here at my question, couldn't I? Let's wait and see. Okay, so I'm a fan of a bagel as much as the next man. I like a bagel. Great. So toasted bagel. Very nice bit of Philadelphia. Why is there a hole in the bagel? Which actually makes it very, very hard to butter and put anything on. I just understand why there is a hole, which seems like it's not really required. It does, doesn't it? It must have something to do with the preparation techniques. But I've never baked a bagel. No, I'm sure I've seen it on Great British Bake off. When they bake bagels, I'm sure it's not anything to do with the actual cooking process. And it would seem you get a lot more bagel for your buck if you don't have the hole. At risk of continuing the golfing theme established by the questioner that you were insulting a moment ago. No, it's no insulting. It was quite insulting. Have you ever seen a bagel that didn't have a hole in one? Oh dear. I don't know whether to laugh or cry. Oh, do a bit of both, mate. Why do bagels have a hole in? Why do. Why do bagels have a hole in? I think it might be something to do with the fact that they. I was thinking about this, maybe where they were stored back in the day. Like on a pole or something. Maybe store on a pole, not in a box. That's just silly. Good point. Yeah, I like that question. Um. What a lovely little collection we've got. Thank you, Duncan. So, can you melt a diamond? How many pimples, dimples, rimples. Can there be on a golf ball? Dog collar. Why? It's not very respectful. And why is there a hole in a bagel? It's 1215 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 18 minutes after twelve. Can you melt a diamond? Well, the caller was adamant that there is a maximum number of dimples that you can put in a golf ball. I want to know what that number is. Although early suggestions are that there isn't a maximum number. Why do we call a dog collar a dog collar? Usually priests could be expected to be described a little more respectfully than that. And why is there a hole in a bagel? Why do bagels have holes in. Shaheed is in Kingston. Question or answer? Shaheed. Hi, James. It's a question. Go on. Um. I think I only ever call you up with crime related questions for mystery. Are you planning another one? Another one for you? Yeah, come on. No, no, I just wanted to know, how important does one have to be to be assassinated instead of murdered? Oh, I like that question. I mean, it's a bit like, I went into the bookshop in tis it yesterday, the new independent bookshop in tis it yesterday, and I'd been told by a listener to go in, so I said hello. Your friend in Bristol told me to come in and say hello. I have a radio show. And he said, oh, we got lots of famous people in here. We had John Humphries in last week. We had Dara O'Brien in yesterday. It's amazing. What's your name? And I thought, that's interesting. There's a sort of hierarchy there, of celebrity. So would I be murdered if someone shot me and John Humphries would be assassinated? Well, the thing is, I've kind of, whilst waiting, I think I've got onto it. I don't know. I mean, there seems to be a link. All the people that I know or not know personally, but they've been assassinated. You've got JFK. Yeah. I thought of Abe Lincoln, I thought of Franz Ferdinand. And they all seem to be. Could be here a while. Well, I mean, the three of them, they're all kind of like leaders, right? Like. Yeah. But also, I think that wouldn't a mafia leader, wouldn't that be an assassination rather than a murder? Isn't it? When you kill someone that's not known to you for a cause, that would be an assassination. Could be. Could be Martin Luther King, you said? Yeah. Are you asking what the difference is between an assassination and a murder? I'm asking, is there a certain. I mean, what? No, because it's got nothing to do with how important you are, actually, if if. What was your first? If JFK had been killed by Jackie O, it would have been a murder, not an assassination. Ah. Wouldn't it? Ah, that's very clever. So if Martin Luther King had been killed by his. By his. By his brother, it would have been a murder, not an assassination. Yeah, but if I went and killed someone, I didn't know. Did I assassinate them or did I murder them? It depends why you did it and who they are. If you just mark march out into the street and kill a random person, you're a murderer. If that random person turns out to be a member of the royal family, you're still a murderer. But if you set out to kill that random member of the royal family for a specific reason, because you're a republican, then it would be an assassin. This isn't helping, is it, Shaheed? Not really, no. No. All right. What's the difference between a murder and an assassination? How'd you get promoted from murder to assassin? Yeah, perfect, yeah. All right, you're on. I like that. I don't know. Promoted is quite the right word, but I think you all understand what Shahid and I mean. Professor Hal is here. Professor of the public understanding at the University of Brighton. You broke a bit of a rule earlier in the week when you rang in about something that wasn't contained within mystery hour. Personally, I quite liked it. No, I always. When it comes up, space and the origin of the universe really, really makes my heart sing. Sing it makes my heart sing. Yeah, I know. Why did you say my heart? Sing it. So, you're on the radio on a fairly bad phone line. Everyone is going to think you said, it makes my heart sink, and they're going to get all confused. Say heart sore. It makes your heart sore. Hal, you do the science, I'll do the words. Okay, well, we're just setting up in Ucfield for a science show with my homies, Dervish and Galilee. So, may I tell you, can people come if they want to? Well, it's for a little school. Oh, all right. Well, no, no, don't then. We don't want to be tempting in. No. So we'll have fun. What question have you phoned in to answer. Well, diamonds aren't forever, it would appear. You see what I did there? So, yes, the thing is, you can't melt a diamond. I'm very, very sorry. Think about water. Water consists of molecules h two o. And between those molecules are things called intermolecular forces, the things that hold a solid together and eventually that hold a liquid together. But carbon, the other carbon, that's called diamond, is a particularly intricate web of each carbon bonded to four other carbons. And so you can't point to one diamond molecule and say, there's a diamond molecule, there's another one. So you can melt it, so it can turn into a liquid. If you heat it up to a certain point, several thousand degrees, what will happen is you'll liberate all the carbon and you will turn a thousand pound asset into a piece of barbecue charcoal. So don't do it. But. Ah, so this is why I tried to pin the original questioner down on what he meant by melt. So you can. You can destroy it. Well, one of my bigger bangs, one of my experiments, when we got a budget, is I actually destroy a diamond in liquid oxygen and it oxidizes because it's just carbon, isn't it? Yes, it's one of the allotropes of carbon, one's graphite and one's diamond. And so you can burn diamonds easily in liquid oxygen. But, yeah, melt means turn. Melt strictly means turn from a solid to a liquid. There is no such thing as liquid diamond under anything. This is a tweet, so I should probably be wary of reading it out. But apparently the Royal Society does provide a melting point for a diamond. But that would be an immolation point. Would it? Or it won't melt. You can't. It doesn't turn into a liquid if you're using the melting, in its strictest sense of the word, turning from a solid into a liquid. It can't be a liquid because there's no. The whole point of a diamond, the whole being of a diamond, is carbon bonded to four other carbons. So all you're doing is liquid. You can't break it down, or rather, you can break it down, but it will never sublimate or melt or anything like that. It won't be diamond anymore. Did I just use the word sublimate correctly? Sublime, actually. I'm very sorry. No, sublimate, as in to turn from a solid to a gas without interceding as a liquid. Yes, that's called sublime. No. Yeah, but the verb would be sublimate. I don't think it is. I think it's sublime. I think you're sublime. Okay. I think. I'm not going to say I think you're ridiculous. Anyway, it's 24 minutes after what? They did get the question right, but I think the questioner would have accepted that as a yes rather than a no. But at least we've got the explanation that we need. You can break it down, but not in the strict sense of the word. Melting. David is in Lewisham. David, question or answer? Hi. I don't. That professor a bit of a diamond geezer. Pack it in. Will you honestly crack on with a question? The question is, James, why, oh, why have I got a giddy aunt? Oh, my giddy aunt. My dad used to say bubbling goldfish, and it was years before I realized that that wasn't rude. And obviously because it's got that buh at the beginning of it, he would say it in front of my sister and I when he was obviously a poise to say a swear word, but he stopped him, so. Oh, bubbling goldfish. Fiddlesticks. I wonder if it's the same. I can't, off the top of my head, think what it might be, but. Oh, my. Gideon. Oh, my good God. There you go. I bet it's that. You're not going to take that? No. I don't know. Of course not. I mean, I have got an aunt who's giddy and she is a little giddy. Is she? Yes. Even before the sherry. Don't get in the car with her. It's a nightmare. Why is it a figure of speech rather than just a description of your domestic affairs? That's what you want to know? Yes, David. You're on, David. Thank you. So. Oh, my Gideon. Origin of that. I bet I'm right. But I'm not going to be cocky enough to take the applause until it's been proven the difference between an assassin and a murder. Why do bagels have a hole in. Why do priests wear dog collars? Why don't we just call them white collars or something like that? Or. I don't know why a dog collar might be very boring. That's simply because it looks like a dog collar. What's the maximum number of dimples you can have in a golf ball? And we now know that you can break down but not actually melt a diamond. Tilo is in Kentish town. Tilo, hello. Long time no speaker one. Hi, James, thanks for taking a call. Bagels. Yeah, bagels. Bagels. They should be called bagels. Because they're from the East End originally. So all this, all this rubbish about New York and how the water is so important is beyond me, really. They were invented here. They were invented here. They were East End London. Yeah. Were they really, by jewish refugees? Kind of, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, but I've seen them be made in San Diego, in California, somebody gave me a half an hour view of how they're done. And they're basically short sausages shaped into the bagel. And they made that way with a whole. Because of density is important. Yeah. You notice bagels are pretty unhealthy because they're so dense. They get loads of calories. And also, so you get the surface area you get, by putting a hole in it, you get loads and loads of crust. You know, they get boiled before they get baked. I did know that, actually. Yes. Yeah, yeah. They're floating in this vat, which is not really boiling, but it's very hot. And then they get taken out and they get baked. And you notice even in London, I mean, I drive past on the a one, there's a proper jewish bakery every day, and I picked them up and they always haven't got a hole. They have. The hole is kind of tiny, that's sort of thick. And they're not as proper as the ones in the east ends, I can say. That's all. So it's nicer to have the surface area maximized. It's a nicer. It's nicer. And also, maybe you've noticed that they're not going to go really stale. They're not. Never the freshest, but they also don't get really stale. They keep for longer than a balm cake or a bat. Yeah, kind of. Kind of. Is that the proper answers? Because they're nicer that way. So you could get one that didn't have a hole in it, but it wouldn't be as nice as the one that did. But they're more bun like. They're not really like bagels correctly. Yeah. They're not that chewy. Harder to toast. Much harder to toast. So the sausage is easier to sort of manipulate. You can mold the sausage more easily than. You're right. And these, these ones, now, you mentioned toasting. When you cut them in half, they hardly fit in the toast. You have to squeeze them a bit. They're quite flat. Kingsmill. Do, uh, do a thin bagel now, you know, first, for ease of toasting, extra thin. No, I know you're not going to be impressed because you're a bit of a bagel purist. But actually I was. They sent us some to the office and they were quite nice. I've even. I've been out to buy them since. Yeah, all right. Got to try them, then. Yeah. A bit of bagel banter for you there, Tilo. Round of applause, please. You do at work today, daddy? Bagel banter, darling. What did you do at school? Chris is in tooting. Chris, question or answer? Hello. It's a question from the sublime to the ridiculous, you might say. Go on, then. Why do crabs walk sideways? They don't. Yes, they do. No, they don't. You do crabs walking the right way. Oh, I see. Right, okay. They're the ones that got it right. Everyone else is walking sideways. It's where their eyes are, isn't it? It's because their eyes point in the sun. I should probably stop now. I'm about to start speculating. Of course crabs work. You mean sideways in the sense that you'd expect the legs to be on the left and the right. I expect them to move forwards in relation to their face. Yes. Which points forwards. Yes. What? What, what? Now I'm confused. I'm just making noises now. I look at their legs, not their faces. Well, you know, I suppose there's no accounting for taste. Why do crabs walk sideways? Sounds like something you get out of your Christmas cracker, doesn't it? I was trying to think of a punchline. I was keeping you on the line making funny noises while desperately trying to think of a Christmas cracker style punchline. Chris, I gotta tell you, I got nothing. All right, cheers, bye. News mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1233 is the time. Bagels. We've done sort of also cooking the middle of it. That's also a reason why it has a hole. Same with a ring donut. So we've done that and we've done the diamonds. Can you melt a diamond? You'll have to download the podcast to find out the answer. If you missed it, we still don't know the origin of the phrase, my giddy aunt. Why crabs walk sideways, the difference between an assassin and a murderer, and why we call the thing around a priest's neck a dog collar. Nicola is in Uxbridge. Nicola, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. I have an answer for you. Thank you very much. In your own time, Nicola. Embarrassingly, it's the answer to the golf ball question. Yes, there are 376 on a golf ball. Boom. How the heck do you know? Because a few years ago, I bought my dad some golf balls for Christmas and there was a little fact sheet in there that had a bunch of random facts, that being one of them. And I remember thinking at the time I was going to remember it because I was sure at some point it would come in useful. I'm going to remember you. Do you know how I'm going to remember you? Why is that? You're the girl who reads the fact sheets in boxes of golf balls. To be fair, I think my mum read it and said, oh, did you know? Fantastic. Is that a limit? I mean, can you remember any other golf ball related facts? Actually, before I pin you down on this one, I really can't. Oh, come on. It's a bit like knowing stuff, but you can't get out until someone asks the right question. You don't know it's there. So if I would you offered it, would you ever have said to someone, I actually know how many dimples there are on a golf ball if they hadn't asked? On those occasions when you get onto talking about random trivia and those kind of things, then, yeah, occasionally. So you have used it before. This isn't the first time that you've been thankful for reading that leaflet that your mother recommended. Oh, you must read this, darling. It's absolutely brilliant. Do we know? And sorry, because you're not an expert, you've just read a leaflet. But do we know whether or not it is in some way you wouldn't be able to use it in the open if it had 377 dimples on it or you wouldn't be able to play with it. Is there a rule, a regulation? I think there's not space for any more dimples on it. I guess the dimples have to be a certain size, the ball has to be a certain diameter, so that is the maximum you could have. Bigger dimples or smaller dimples, maybe. I really don't know. I feel that if you rung in to just say 376, the idea that I'm now expecting you to provide further information is not only unprofessional, it's also rather unfair. 376, 376 dimples. I'm waiting for the applause, Nick. Let's do it again. 376 dimples. Hang on a minute. You have to give half of that to your mum. All right, I will do that. James, I don't know if there's any chance. I was trying to phone him with a question this week as well, but I heard the golf ball question. Can't do it. I can't do it. Oh, really? Yeah. Sorry, it's nearly Christmas. I know. Okay. Thanks for trying, though. I can't start changing the rules. Lance is in Tunbridge Wells. Lance would be an uproar if I started allowing answers to have questions as well. And he wouldn't be alone. Lance, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Lance. My son asked me this question the other day. What time is it in space? And with relation to the space station going round, what time do they work from? Because probably russian time or wherever the base camp is. Yeah, but if the Americans launched a probe, would they work to american time? And then they could have some right old confusion to say, I'll see you on the moon at 04:10. And they get there about 6 hours apart, depending on what. I mean, his original question was, what time is it on the moon? Well, what time is it at sea? Say that again. What time is it at sea in international waters? Is it Greenwich, meantime? Might be. But I mean, if you're in space, I mean, the guys in the space station are going around the earth 17 times a day. How old is your son? 21. When he. When your 21 year old son came up to you and said, dad, what time is it in space? What have you been doing for the last few hours? I don't know. I don't know. But I mean, was he. Was he eating a lot of jelly at the time? Was he eating a lot of sweets? Are you sure about this? I am sure about. We hadn't just melted a Kit Kat into a cup of hot chocolate or something like that. No, no, no. All right. What time is it in space, Dan? I don't know, son. I'll find a bloke on the radio, find out for you. I was just wondering if. No, he can't be doing that. But could he not have rung in himself? Your boy, he's working today, he's 21 years old, actually. He doesn't like this show, so he knows. Well, we'll show him, mate. We'll find out what time. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. Loves his 21 year old son. Because if we're in the car and I say go, we've got to listen to mystery, he says, no, I'm not listening to it. It's just rubbish. Cheeky little beggar. Honestly, I blame the parents. What time is it in space? We need to find out. John is in Enfield. John, question or answer, James? It's a question, please. Yes, I'd like to know if celebrities have two different types of signature, you know, one for autographs and one for. Well, you can't. Silly question, John. It's a silly question, John. Why is it a silly question? Well, because some will and some won't do this. Every time I get on you, you question my question. Well, that should means you're not trying hard enough to come up with a good one before you ring in. What do you mean, celebrities? Well, like yourself. Do you have two different types? It depends how many autographs I'm signing at my latest signing, which is never okay, but if I said yes, I've got one for signing autographs, well, then I've got another one for signing autographs for pretty people, and then I've got another one when I'm signing banking documents. That wouldn't prove anything. That would just prove that I have two signatures. The question do celebrities have two signatures? Is like saying something like, do celebrities believe in God? Some do, some don't. John, does George Clooney have two different types of signature? Ask him. I don't know. I thought you'd know him more than me. Why would you think that? You're a celeb. Can you. Can you see why it's a silly question? I don't want you to go until you've realized, because I'm not being rude. Well, I might be being rude, but it's also a. What? No, I can't see it. Right. So do celebrities believe in God, John, do celebrities have two different types of signatures? Yeah, it's exactly the same question. Or rather, it has exactly the same answer. Some might, some might not. There's not like a club you join where they say, oh, you're a celebrity now. By the way, you better get yourself a new signature in case you ever have to sign any autographs. John. I don't know. Well, what don't you know? What can someone ring up? And who, though, John? I mean, maybe a celeb. Have we got any celebrities listening? Maybe Ian Dale, if he rings up. Well, if Ian Dale rings in and says, yes, I have two celebrity signatures, one for my banking details, but that. And then what if George Clooney rang in after that? I don't think Ian Dale's ever been asked for his autograph anyway. But then George Clooney rang in afterwards and said, I know, James, I use exactly the same signature whether I'm signing contracts or autographs. What would that do to you? What would that do to you, John, in Enfield? It would answer my question. It would not answer your question because you've just been answered yes and no at the same time. Anyway, can you say hello to my wife? Yeah. What's her name? Julia. Hi, Julia. Was that. Is she not going to say hello back? No, she's in the car. She's not here. Where are you? I'm at work. How do you know she's listening? She just rang me just before I got on the line. You should have told me that before I was rude to you. She's gonna be all embarrassed now because your question was so rubbish. I'd have pretended it wasn't if I'd known Julia was. You think it's rubbish? Others might think it's a good question. Okay, they might. I'm just gonna say sorry to Julia for spoiling her mystery, our experience. Yeah. She had to rush from a meeting just to get in the car. I'm sorry, Julia. It's not my fault. But John has phoned up and made a bit of a prune of himself. But it is my fault that I've pointed it out quite so violently. For that, Julia, I'm sorry. Thank you, John. Is that it, then? Well, I don't know. Unless you've got anything better to offer. Merry Christmas. Yeah. Stop me. So, Julian, and now Earl's in a Blackwell. Earl, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Are you sure this is really Earl and not George Clooney? Greenwich mean time. Thank you. What question are you answering? The time that the spaceship, the space station uses. Good man. And how do you know this? I watched stargazers last night and Brian Cox and Dara O'Breen and asked the same question. Round of applause for all. Are you. Are you a celebrity, Earl, of any kind? Oh, yeah. Always. Do you have two signatures? Always. When I speak with you. Did you. Do you have two signatures? One for autographs and one for one for official documents? It's just a scribble. It's just a scribble for all of us. 1243. Oh, great work. Jay is in Romford. Jay, question. Where's the blooming time gone? It's 1243 J. Question or answer? It's a answer, James. Bring it on. About the old crabs. Yeah, just for people tuning in, the question is, why do crabs walk sideways? This isn't a medical phone in. This isn't medical hour. God. It's all to do with the joints on their legs. They can only move in one way, where the legs are being the side of the crab. They can only move sort of bit like our knees, so they can move courses. The joints are perpendicular. So what's the evolutionary explanation for that? I mean, you'd think they'd have developed joints. No. Well, no, you wouldn't, actually, would you? That is what works best for them. For scurrying around the sea floor and hopping off the beach. Exactly. They walk sideways because. Because of where their legs are and where the joints in their legs are. Exactly. Qualifications. I've got a couple of crabs in my fish tank at home. It's not a vigorous speech, is it, Jay? No, no, not from where I'm from, mate. How often do you clean out your fish tank? Well, mine's a saltwater one, so I do every two weeks, mate. So how often should you be doing a fresh water one? Depending on the size of it, yeah. Small one. About six fish. That's it. 30 liters. Three weeks is perfect. I haven't cleaned mine out for months and it's still clean and the fish are still alive. I've told my kids I've cleaned it out every Sunday, but I never do. I'm too lazy and they're fun. I think it's a big con. I think it's put out by the. By the people selling cleaning products. I don't think you need to clean your fish tank. Yeah, no, we think. Well, it depends. If you've got the biological filtration, you should be fine, but it's a lot to go into and. Yeah, but, yeah. Oh, I don't believe it. Not you. You give. Give him a round of applause. Well done. But I'm about. I can't believe it. This flipping James McVeigh out of the vamps has ruined my twitter again. Seriously. And he is a proper celebrity and he does have two types of signature, but he says he likes to flutter in between the two, depending on timing. So James is a proper pop star, but every single time he tweets me, look, I'll just click on it. Now go and look at my twitter. That's it. Now, James, I've warned you about this before. Hi, James. How are you, James, you are my everything. Follow me if you see this, says Lily, every single reply now on my Twitter feed for the next three days will be addressed to James McVeigh out of the vamps. So if you see him, don't ask him for his autograph. It's 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery act continues questions that still need answers. We've done that. What time is it in space? Done. The crab. The origin of the phrase my giddy aren't the difference between an assassin and a murder and the explanation for why the neckwear worn by a vicar or a priest is called a dog collar. Do you want to see what it's like when. When a pop star tweets you? This is James out, the vamps who's tweeted to say he has two different signatures. And also he's also said, happy Christmas to mark in Enfield. This is now what happens to my twitter feed for the next two or three days. Hi, baby. Please follow me. I love you. Je taime. I think she's french. Follow me, baby. Follow me, please. Hey. I think you are the best celebrity and the best person. Oh, I think that one must be for me rather than the other. James. Please follow me. When will you notice me? Tayamo? I think she might be attacked. Please follow me, baby. I love you. And then. Ho, ho, ho. Ha ha ha. I digress slightly. Stewart's in seven. Oh, it's question or answer, Stuart. Stewart's inquiry. Stewart's inquiry. Stewart's inquiry. Stewards inquiry by Stewart becomes a Stewart's inquiry. What have you got? What have you got? The golf ball. Oh, yeah. It's between three and 500 dimples on a golf ball. Ha ha ha. Is 500 the maximum? Yes, I think so. From. According to someone I know, yes. So who. Who's your golf ball advisor? He's my brother. So where did the 376 number come for? That was on a fact sheet, Stu. That must have been on that ball. It was on a fact sheet, though. Yeah, but that's that ball. There's different. But although the balls are the same size. Yeah, there's different. The dimples don't have to be. The dimples could be different sizes. In which case. Well, the original question was, is that what? He was adamant there was a statutory limit on how many dimples you're allowed to have on a golf ball? Yes, between three and five. Well, between 305 hundred. There you go. And how did this subject come up with your brother in law? Did you ring him, especially just now? I run him especially just now. Well, just for that, you get this. Luke's in south end. Luke, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's the answer to my gideon. Oh, yeah. Hang on, hang on, hang on. I just got something coming in from the vamps fans. Merry Christmas to you from Indonesia. Carry on, Luke. Oh, that's very nice. Giddy is to do with being possessed by God. What? Giddy was derived from being possessed by God or being possessed. Yeah, or being possessed. And it was used as, like a swear term. A little bit like your foot on my stairs and the work sort of thing. It was OMG. And then I think Aunt got added at the beginning of the century. Qualifications? None. I don't know why you did the ha before that, because I thought when you did the ha, you were about to play for knowing my giddy aunt would be. That's like going. That's like playing cards and going, ha. And then putting down a sort of two and a four or something. Yeah, I know. I'm sorry about that. It was. I've never known an answer to anything on your show before. And then all of a sudden, this was a conversation we had in a pub about ten years ago that went on for days. And it literally went on for days. That's my kind of pub. Trying to work out the origin of the phrase my gideon. So it is a bit like bubbling goldfish. It's a way of swearing without swearing, but it's linked to the notion of demonic possession or religious OMG. When people didn't want to say, oh, my God, they said, oh, my giddy. Because it's got the same initial. Yeah. So you're going to get a round of applause for that, aren't you? Either way, carry on. Thank you, Luke. Um, we're not. Poor fellow hasn't been able to get through. Have we seen any. Alex's on the switchboard during this hour? Is Alex on the line? Have we got the right Alex or not? Yeah, yeah. Hello, mate. How are you? I'm doing really good. I'm actually really excited. I'm hoping I'm going to get an applause because I've got an answer to it. Question. Hang on. We need to explain to people who you are first and I don't let you know who I was. I used to be Alex Sibley. I was on big Brother a very, very, very long time ago. One of the earliest ones. You were that. You were the very good looking fellow who used to wash a lot. Quite good looking myself. Didn't I see you. Didn't I see you on an ITV daytime show not that long ago? Yeah, it was a really good one in the morning. I think it was Kilroy. I can't remember. Yeah, all right, mate. Calm. Yeah. I don't do the gags. What have you got for me? Well, yes, I think. Well, I can't. I'm not a celebrity anymore, but I was an ex lister and I used to do two autographs because I used to think, if I'm putting my signature out there, imagine if someone says, look, he wrote it. I'm the father of his five children. He's the father of my five children. My autograph was there, so I used to sign it, just Alex. But the truth is, the autograph is gone now because everyone wants a selfie. You know, I haven't given an autograph since 2010. How many selfies have you done? Six. I had one today. Someone from the council saw me and goes, oh, my God, it's you. And they actually had a selfie done today. Fantastic. You're right. The autograph is probably a thing of the past now. Very, very rarely. I was on a train with Martin Lewis the other day. You know, the money saving expert. Yes. Manchester to London. Probably six or seven selfie requests he got. What about you? Not a sausage, mate. Not a flipping sausage. Oh, next time I see you. Thanks, Alex. We'll do one together. Give Alex Sibley a round of applause. Well played. 1255 is the time marks in Ipswich. Mark. Question or answer? Oh, hi. It's an answer. And I'm very excited, James, because if I get the round of applause, that'd be my hat trick. Well, mate, let's not count any chickens. What have you got for me? Funny enough, funnily enough, the first one that I got right was. Was about eggs. So, yeah, the. God, it's like Peter Houston. I've never left us. Carry on. Yeah. The difference between murder and assassination. Yes. It depends on three elements. Firstly, the victim has to be somebody either famous or of some notoriety. Yes. Secondly, the victim, the person that carries out the deed, it depends who they are. If it's like a revolutionary or republican or something like that, somebody opposed to the other person and thirdly, politically opposed, the motive has to be there as well. So it could be a political motive or it could be like a gangland motive. There has to be a motive for taking him out and it has to be a particular sort of strand of motive. But there's always a motive for murder, you prune. No, no, but it's. It's. It's not just a motive because, you know, you didn't like that person or something like, there has to be an umbrella. Can you hear that? Can you hear that? Do you know what that is? That's you warm enough to do a round of applause. Do you know what that sound is there? What is it? That is the sound of your hat trick disappearing over the horizon, Mark. Oh, it is not. You're never going to get a round of applause for saying it's good to be a bit special kind of motive, person thing. No, no, the motive has to be quite specific. For example, if I was a republican and I murdered a member of the royal family, it's because I'm a republican, he's a king and I'm trying to overthrow the monarchy. But what if you were Prince Harry and you murdered your brother because you were also a republican? Would it be an assassination or a murder? If his. If the. If there was a political motive behind it, if he wanted to become king, for example, then that would be in a. Assassination. He's pulling it out the fire, isn't he, now? Oh, yeah. Not completely. So, I know this. My qualification is, I used to be a Royal Air Force policeman and somebody, when we were going through police school, somebody did actually ask our tutor that very question. And he went into great depth as to what the difference was. And he kept saying about the three elements have to be there. If I was, if. If I just. If I ran over the king and I wasn't a republican and I loved the royal family, then that would be. That would be murder. Stroke, manslaughter. I think you've pulled out the bag, but I've got a stewards inquiry on the other line. I've only got 30 seconds less. Peter is in North Yorkshire. Peter, what have you got? James, very quickly. It's Persian and Middle Eastern. Oh, I know that from hashish. I know, I know that. But the difference between an assassination and a murderer. No, but the people were known as Hashishin and they were commissioned to kill other people. Yeah, but that doesn't apply to assassins in the modern world. So, Peter, your stewards inquiry has failed. Mark in Ipswich, this, unexpectedly, is for you. Can you do that again with a little bit more feeling? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Whoa. See? See? If you build it, they will come. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear will probably not be going, woo hoo, but it will belong to Sheila Fogarty. I don't.