Can you be stung by a stinging nettle once it is cut?- 2 Jul 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC four minutes after twelve. I'm glad I'm not alone. Bombarded now, having directed you towards our homepage LBC dot co dot UK, to see footage of Sir Nicholas Winton, whose family revealed yesterday, had passed away peacefully at home. I'm not going to spoil it for you. I want you to watch the clip. If you haven't got access to the website at the moment, I've tweeted it. You can get it on your smartphone from my account at mrjamesob OrBC. Just watch that and feel the power of emotion. It will be tears of laughter, however, that we serve up in the course of the next hour, rather than tears of an altogether more profound nature. Because it's time for mystery, our weekly opportunity to get an answer to any question you want, as long as it's not boring or one answered before anything goes. That's it, really. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need to bring the studio. You'll only hear me say it when I have a phone line free, which is odd this hour because we have to move things along very quickly. For the first ten minutes, the phones go nuts. So actually you'll get through now if you're quick, but then you won't get through for ten minutes because it will be chocka. But oddly, a lot of people that will be blocking up the phone lines won't be getting on because they won't realize that their question is repetitious or indeed dull. Dull very much in the eye of the beholder. Management's decision is final. If it's about motoring or something like that, parking tickets, it definitely won't get on. But generally speaking, if it's a question to which you can realistically imagine lots and lots of other people being interested in the answer, you'll be fine, we'll be cool, we'll be away. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, zero 345-606-0973 is also the number that you need. It's like the newspaper columns that you are familiar with, the who, why, what, where, when columns, the notes and queries that send them in and get another reader to answer it. It's the radio equivalent of that, but it's altogether more immediate and more urgent. Six minutes after twelve is the time, shall we. Shall we crack on? I don't think you need any more notes. You don't need any more small print from me, do you? No. Cool. Gareth is in Croydon. Gareth, what's your question? Right, it's funny, you were just talking about Prince Charles and his property in the last hour. So, we know that the queen has started paying tax. The monarchy has started paying tax within the queen's lifetime. Yes. We also know that the palaces all around the country are owned by the crown, apart from Windsor Castle, which is privately owned. That's my understanding. Okay. It's also my understanding that Windsor Castle is the largest private residence on the planet. No. No, it's not. What about that house Aaron spelling built in Hollywood? Well, okay. Well, then, let's say. Well, certainly. Certainly the largest one in the UK and one of the largest private residences on the planet. Yeah, all right. No, will hasn't got a bowling alley, though, like Aaron Spellings has, but I think it does have a cathedral. All right. That Trump's a bowling alley. Does it? I would have thought. I would have thought so, anyway, sorry, my question is, when the fateful day arrives, will Prince Charles have to pay inheritance tax on that private residence on Windsor Castle specifically? Yeah, because it's not. The rest of it is hell, but the crime. Will he have to pen, they own Sandringham as well? Isn't Sandringham my understanding? Because I've only heard it on the radio or on a podcast or something. What do you mean? You've only heard it on the radio or a podcast or something? As if that's not academically reliable. Well, you know, there are stewards inquiries. I heard it on the radio, and there may subsequently have been a stewards inquiry, which I missed, so I'm not going definitive with my claim, but we believe that Windsor Castle is privately owned by the queen and indeed the only property privately owned by the queen. So will Prince Charles have to pay an epic amount of inheritance tax on it? Correct. And you'd have to get. I'm not going to switch off, because I want to listen to podcasts. Because I listen to the podcast. So I'm going to switch off the radio and get your answer late while I'm running in the gym. It's going to be very exciting. No, the pressure's on now. I don't know if I like the idea of you turning the radio. Can you leave the radio on, but turn the volume down so that we're there in spirit? I don't want to hear any of it. What do you think I'm here for my own amusement? Well, no, because you're here for my amusement later on in the gym when I'm going for a run, and then I have 45 minutes of pure mystery at our pleasure. All right, fair enough. No, you've done it. You've sold it. People who do only listen on podcasts. Hello. You're not really coming across with the questions lately. You're supposed to be doing a hash mystery hour so that I can ask a podcaster's question every week and get it answered in a way that you'll only be able to hear when you download the podcast. But anyway, what sort of inheritance tax would Prince Charles have to pay? In general, I'd be interested in knowing, but the question is specific to Windsor Castle. If you know the answer to that, you know what to do. Rob is also in Croydon. Rob, question or answer? Hello, James. Question. Why do we pace up and down while on the phone, which I'm doing right now. Are you actually pacing? I actually am. I've got out my car purely for this question. I'm a terrible pacer when I'm not at work. I imagine you're pacing much. Up and down. No. It's the weirdest thing. I don't feel like I'm on the phone when I'm at work. Well, I'm not. I'm on the radio, but so are you. And you're still pacing. I talk. I talk more comfortable for some reason. My wife tells me. My wife tells me off. I was on the phone. I was talking to somebody yesterday about businessy stuff, but I was in Waitrose, and I was trying to be really quiet about it, and I'd had to go into Waitrose because it was quieter and my wife was there by coincidence. I felt someone pinch my bum. Rob, between you and me, and obviously that's a bit of an occupational hazard for me, but not for a few years. And I turned around, there's my wife. She goes, stop pacing. Up and down. All right. So I went and sat in customer services and finished the phone conversation there. But at work, I never pace up. You concentrate better, do you, when you pace up and down? Well, I do it when I'm on a long conversation where I feel more comfortable and I speak more fluent normally. You do, and you're on the ball and you're thinking more quickly. I'll tell you what. Tomorrow I might do the show in a headset. And I'll march up and down the studio, see if you can detect any difference in quality until then I'll just ask the question for you. Why do we walk up and down? Why do we pace up and down when we're on the phone? Given that we wouldn't normally, if we were having a face to face conversation, it'd be a bit weird if one of us started pacing up and down. Would it? Or would it? I don't know. Debbie's in Watford. Question or answer? Debbie. It's a question. Carry on. I want to know if stinging nettles can still sting you once they've been cut. Well, I can think of easier ways to find out than ringing me. I don't want to risk it. Get someone else to risk it. That's what husbands are for. I was talking my dog the other day and we go along a path with lots of stinging nettles and I always have to dodge them. If I've got shorts on, but I've cut them down and I'm just wondering, if I touch them, will they still sting me? So which bit are you worried about? The bit that's being cut off. Will that still sting you? Yeah, the bit laying on the ground sort of sticking up at me. I presume it's a chemical, the sting, isn't it? And the chemical will still be there. I don't know, though. What are you. What are you going to do if we get a definitive. Are you going to go and frolic in the nettles for the rest of the afternoon? No, but I won't have to be quite as careful. Gonna make like a meadow. Okay. Can a stinging nettle still sting? It sounds like the beginning of one of my kids tongue twisters. This can a stinging nettle sting when a sting, sting, sting, sting, sting when it's been cut. So if I chopped off a nettle and then plonked it on Jones the engineer's nose. Oh. I've just thought of a way we can answer this. If we don't get any callers, would it still sting? We'll find out for you, Debbie, I promise. It's eleven minutes after twelve. You are listening to mystery hour. James O'Brien on LBC. I'd also tell you that the response to that clip I urged you to look at is just as I hoped and expected. It is single most impressive act of individual quiet magnificence that I've ever come across in my life. Sir Nicholas Winston died this week at the age of 106. But go to LBC dot co dot UK comma or just check the clip that I've tweeted from at Mr. James Ob to see why every single time. Every, every single time. And it goes back to, I think, the late nineties, 1998. And I must have watched this clip 100 times. And every single time I watch it, I cry. And so will you. David is in Southgate. Back to mystery, our question or answer. David. Hello, James. It's a question. Go on, then. How you doing? You all right? I think so, yeah. You? Good, good. I've watched that clip. It's amazing, isn't it? Oh, mate, absolutely. Tears your heart out. Bounces it around the room. Yeah. Brought tears to my eye. Good. Now, listen, my question is. Yes. Why does bright light help you sneeze? Is this an old wives tale? Because some people think if you look at a light, it's true, it works. It works. It really does. So you feel a sneeze coming on, but you're not sure you're going to actually go full monty on it. So that is nothing worse, is there, than losing a sneeze halfway, halfway up your pipes. That is a horrible feeling that discombobulates you for the whole day. So you look at a bright light, or even the sun, and it brings the sneeze on. It does, because I did it with my son, who's five. Yes. And he wanted to know as well, and I just didn't know why. And it works. Didn't we hear from someone once, though, who told us that it had the opposite effect? And if you don't want to sneeze, you should look at a bright light and it stops you sneezing? Well, it works out well with me. Yeah. And with. And with Jones, the engineer, as well. So why. Why does a bright light act as a catalyst for sneezing? That's right, yeah, you're on. I like that. And we'll find out for your boy as well. It's 13 minutes after twelve. So, queen, what sort of inheritance tax will Prince Charles have to pay on the sad day when her Majesty the queen passes away? Why do we walk up and down when we're on the phone? Does a stinging nettle still sting when it's been cut? And why does a bright light make us sneeze? I like these. These are lovely questions. Let's start getting some answers. I've got a couple of phone lines for you now. Oh, thrill. There it goes. John's in Wellingarden city. Question or answer? John for the first time. It is an answer. I believe I've done a couple of questions before. Carry on. Sneezing makes me light, makes me sneeze. By the way. Definitely, yeah. When I had my kid, I've got a five year old and a three year old boy. And when they were born I decided to get our will and stuff in place and to make sure they were okay should anything happen to us. A guy that did our will for us said that there's about 5 billion pounds a year in inheritance tax. Each year is given to the government and 80% of that is given by the estates of average earners. And he said this is because getting your estate in place, getting your estate managed for rich people, a few grand here and there is not so much money in comparison to the average earns where 3000 pounds. A lot of money. So they tend not to get their estate put in place. They get basic wills in place but not their estate managed. So what rich people do, they have properties and if they put in trust, they put them into companies so that the. No, no, no, no, you can't. I mean, this is just speculation. This isn't what Prince Charles. Yeah, yeah. I don't know. This is what the royal family done, but this is what this guy said that he's going to break, generally speaking, wealth. Wealthy people can get a round of applause. Not in a million years. Oh, come on, don't be ridiculous. You just rung up to tell me about trusts. Lots of rich people don't pay their fair share of tax and inheritance tax because they put it all in trust. But you can put things in trust. We don't know that Prince Charles. We don't know that Windsor Castle is in trust. We don't know. That's a definite. But that's what I would suspect will be the case. And when did you last hear someone get a round of applause for suspecting something? Answer the question. When did you last hear someone get a round of applause for suspecting something? Yeah, fair enough. So when was it? When was it? It wasn't. Thank you, John. It's 1216. Stick to the questions, mate. In future, 16 minutes after twelve. It's 20 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I mention it again because the response has been astonishing. I thought everyone had seen the clip of Sir Nicholas Winton on television in 1998. The man who saved 669 children from the gas chambers and found them homes in Britain and brought them to a country described by one of the women he rescued as the only country in the world that would let us in, that would put its arms around us. That's what Great Britain used to look like. Guys that's what. That's what this country used to be about. Love. Welcome, warmth. Now. Hmm. Go and have a look at it. LBC dot co dot UK. It will shake you to your core. Ah. Mystery hour is underway. We haven't got any answers yet. Will the queen have to pay? Will Prince Charles have to pay inheritance tax? Why do we walk up and down when we're on the phone? Can a stinging nettle stingy once it's been chopped down? And why does looking at a bright light make you sneeze? Poppy's in Redding. Poppy, what would you like to say? Oh, I have a question. Bring it on. I never have an answer, but I have a question. Yeah, excellent. Okay. Oh, good morning, by the way. Good afternoon. Oh, yeah, yeah, afternoon. So, pre 1940, roughly. Nobody ever smiles in photographs taken. They're all really serious. After 1940, everybody smiles, like, all. Because I work with elderly and I look at a lot of pictures of photographs and so they're never smiling, like before that time. Never. No smiles ever. I mean, there are, except I'm going to let it pass as true. I mean, I'm sure if we searched for long enough, we could find a picture of someone smiling prior to 1935. But, I mean, a lot of the pictures will be studio based, won't they? I don't know whether that makes a difference, does it? Well, it's a sort of. It was a serious business having a photograph taken is what I'm suggesting. Whereas now, I mean, we could take a thousand before we finish this conversation, couldn't we, between us? We could, but even. Oh, yeah, that's not the answer. I'm just thinking out loud because I'm thinking of pictures of. I can always remember a lovely picture of my mum and her dad on the. On the promenade in Blackpool. And I. I think my mum was smiling, but. But my granddad wasn't, and that would be 1950s, probably, so his generation never would have smiled in a photograph, because. I don't know. Why am I even talking? Poppy, I haven't got a clue what the answer to your question is. Well, neither do I. That's why I rang in. I know. Well, what are we going to ask them? When did people start smiling in photographs? I think you do have a clue, but you're just being polite. I'm not. I'm never polite. You've been listening to this program long enough. Well, sometimes I'm not polite to you, I suppose, but you're the only one. Exactly. Let's try. Let's try and find out for you. Smiling in photographs. Why didn't they do it? I don't know if we can put an exact date on when they started doing it. Poppy's gone for the forties. Seems about right. Wasn't a lot to smile about in the first half of that decade. Of course. 23 minutes after twelve. Although thinking of the first half of that decade with Sir Nicholas Winton so fresh in our minds. The late Sir Nicholas Winton. Do you know the Czechs repeatedly nominated him for the Nobel Peace Prize? He was knighted in 2003 for services to humanity, but he never got the no Nobel Peace Prize. And Barack Obama did. Dominic's in Camberwell. Dominic. Question or answer? That's another question, I'm afraid, James, and we like questions, don't worry. Go on. Okay. On hot days yesterday, today, what have you, on the tube, on the bus, people fanning themselves with papers, envelopes, might be. I wonder, do you derive any benefit from that or do the actual. The action of using your muscles to flap, is that going to heat yourself up even more. No. Than you're going to gain by the waft of air over you. Over your face. No, the word, it's beneficial. You sure? Well, I mean, it's obviously beneficial, otherwise no one would ever do it. Well, people are spared on this. Half the bus was. Half the bus wasn't. Yes, sir. Well, you spoke to the whole boss about it. No. You can see people wafting away with envelopes and you have to have the right thing. I mean, it depends how. I mean that the exertion there is minimal. Minimal, yeah. But surely. Well, what do you gain by. You're only wafting a small fraction. No, you're not. You're covering your whole face. You're getting a lovely, lovely bit breeze on your face. It's glorious. No, there's only a tiny bit of you. No, I'm doing it now. And I'm telling you now, I'm cooler than I was before I started doing it. Well, I don't want to have a conversation about how cool you are, James. That's a rather old way. I need to go. I'm creating wind chill, you see. Not just a cooling breeze. If I were to lick my own face and then fan it, I'd be even cooler. Now. If you put that up online, I will. Licking my own face, you filthy man. It's 25 minutes after. What am I going to do? I mean, obviously, I get. I can't have a round of applause. We might need some scientific input on that one, then. I don't know. Licking your wrists is another good thing to do. Actually, it's true. I checked this yesterday, and that is because of wind chill factor. So if you're very hot and then you lick your wrist and it evaporates, it cools down your wrist and the wrist is a good point at which all the blood through in your body passes at some point. So you cool down a lot of blood and it cools down your whole body. So I told my nine year old yesterday that licking her wrist was a good way to cool down because we were all so hot. And I came back into the room about five minutes later and she thought I meant lick your wrist like it's a lollipop. So she'd been sitting there for five minutes licking her wrist. Dad, this isn't working. I'm just getting sticky wrists, bless her. Carla's in Cheshire. Question or answer? Carla. I've got an answer. Hang on a minute. No. Carla. Carla. Carla. Carla. Carla. Carla. Stay there. Will you a minute? I just want to clarify. Can we stop putting Cheshire on the board? Cheshire's a flipping great big county. It's home of Macclesfield and Stockport and Hale and all sorts of areas. It's a bit like putting London on the board. We start being a bit more. Whereabouts in Cheshire are you, Carla? I live in a little village called Hartford, but I've only just moved here from Guildford. Right, there you go. So. So what's the nearest town? Northwest. There we go. So, for the purposes of art, can we be Carla from Northwich? For in future, please. Okay. Okay. Why don't you want to be Carla from Northwich? No, it sounds lovely. Yes, well, all right, you can be Carla from Hartford then. Do you want to be Carla from Hartford? All right, can we. Can we. Can we make that happen, please? Thank you. Now, where were we? What's your answer? The lady with the singer nettle. She's got to be careful. She will still get stung when they're cut. And I only know this because I've taken part in the world Stinger Nettling team championship twice. How did you get on? I came third the first time. I came second the second time. When's the next one? Well, I'm not sure because they don't advertise it at the moment. They used to do every year, but I think they may have stopped. Where did you do it? It's down in Dorset. It's in a little pub all over the world that. Come there. It's in a little pub. And you believe this, did you? Oh, yeah. We're having. We got one in tonight. We got. We got one in tonight. Bert got one of those. One of those gruckles from. From. Where were you before Guilford? We're going to tell her it's the world nettle eating championships and see how much nettles we can get her to eat. It's going to be fantastic. It was wonderful. Yeah. Of course, you could have another nettle. Have another nettle, love. Have another nettle. There you go. How many did you eat to come second in the world? Stinging nettle. 37 foot worth of nettles. 37ft of nettles. Yep. Wow. And does it hurt? It does hurt. It's absolute agony and especially if you get them late on in the season. So it's like eating glass, then? I mean, it's like a sharp pain in your mouth, albeit that it's not cutting you. No, it just stings your mouth, it stings your lips, it stings your hands and then it dies your tongue black for about a week because of that. But it's iron level. It's very strong on iron, actually. Why did you do this? Oh, well, I had a friend who just got a number one single. Who? Who was it? An old brother. She was part of the sugar babe. Yes. So you were with it. Right. I'm loving this story. Hang on, let's everyone sit down. Michael Jones. All right. Right, come on. Cup of tea. And I'm not the most athletic person, although I've just ridden 127 miles at the weekend for charity. Well done. So, hang on, back to the sugar babes. Yes. So she just got a number one single? Yes. And I thought, well, I'm never going to get a gold medal. I can't sing. I can give you a little rendition, but I really don't. No, don't do that. And I thought, I've got to be number one at some link in the world. So, because your friend was a sugar babe and got a number one single, you decided to enter the world stinging net elite in championships? Yeah. Yeah. We've all been there. Well, of course. But you didn't win. I didn't. But I will do one day. I will go back. I wish you well. I think that's earned you a round of applause, though. I bet your mate in the sugar babes never got one of those, did she? Yeah. Yeah. 29 minutes after twelve, you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery act continues. We've done the nettles. We haven't done the. Why bright lights make you sneeze. Why you walk up and down often when you're on the phone. Whether or not Prince Charles will be liable for inheritance tax on Windsor Castle and why people. Why did people didn't smile in photographs? I'm just going to call it. There you go. Poppy's not here anymore. We just call it the olden days. Why didn't people smile in photographs in the olden days? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. The time is approaching 12:30 you can have a crack at the fanning question as well if you want, but I think it's pretty obvious that fanning yourself cools you down more than it heats you up most of the time. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 33 minutes after twelve is the time mystery hour is underway. Inheritance tax. Will Prince Charles be liable for any. And no one's got a crack at that yet, which is slightly worrying. I think we might have to look into it. Walking up and down when you're on the phone. Proper answer, like a psychological explanation. Similarly, looking at bright lights makes you sneeze if you've got a sneeze coming up your pipes and you're very keen to get it out, because there's nothing more discombobulating than just feeling it on the tip of your nose or tongue or wherever a sneeze might reside before actually being sneezed. How do you. How do you explain that? And why did people not smile in photographs in the olden days? David is in East Moseley. David, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry answer. Last month you tweeted pinch punch, first of the month and I wondered where on earth came from. You don't see it very often, but points in a punch on the first of the month and no returns. White rabbits, something like that, yes. Yeah, I like that. So rabbits on your program is probably a bit controversial, isn't it, going back a few months? Oh, yeah, the DJ, the danish rake. Because, you know, people say things sometimes and it makes me wonder whether actually you occasionally pay more attention to what's happening on this program than I do. David. I think that's flattery, James. Flattery. I like the question. These sort of children's rhymes. Have you been the bring a ring of roses goes back to the plague. Where does this one come from? Pinching a punch on the first of the month. Zero three. If Wayne in baseline is listening, he'll know this because he bought Brewer's dictionary of phrase and fable in order to get himself qualified to answer more questions on mystery hour. One of my favorite books, Luke is in Kingston. Luke, question or answer? It's a question. Go on. My girlfriend is horribly allergic to domestic house cats. Yes. Will she be allergic to lions, tigers? Why, are you thinking of getting one of those instead? Um. Might be a nice Christmas present. Yeah, she's really allergic to cats. I bought her a tiger. So what domestic is. I bet she's not allergic to all domestic house domestic cats, is she? I've not met every domestic, but is she worse with tabbies or with long hairs or something like that? We try to avoid them. So I bet my wife's the same. My wife is the same, Lou. That's why I asked. Because tabbies bring my wife out much worse than a short haired black cat, for example. And I wonder if that's the answer to your question that actually, no, not all cats produce the same allergens, or whatever it may be, but we need to find out what was the other thing someone asked about? Was it the lions purr? Was that what it was? Didn't we do something else to do with, like, is that big cat the same as a small cat? So if you're allergic to little cats, little domestic cats, will you be allergic to big, wild cats as well? Yeah. Just out of interest, what will you do with this knowledge? Well, if she's not allergic to tigers, maybe she can go and cuddle a tiger. 1236. Yeah, because the allergy would be the real risk there. Luke, Dave's in Orpington. Dave, question or answer? Well, it's an answer, hopefully. Let's start again and be a bit more. No, no. Yeah, that's better. Yeah, go on then. Right. In the olden days, the cameras weren't so advanced. The shutter speed was much lower. Yes. You go to the studio, you set it up on the tripod. Yes. You had to keep perfectly still. Yes. And if you smiled, I mean, could you keep a smile for so long, it started to droop and it would look pretty weird. Yeah, exactly. Well, we'd all look like sherry blair. Oh, no. If you tried to hold a smile for, like, 40 seconds. Yeah, we wouldn't. We don't look like that. And of course, that's a habit. And even when the shutter speed got a little bit quicker and when people got personal cameras and didn't have to go to studios anymore, the habit persisted until finally somebody invented cheese. Cheese, isn't it? What's my favorite cheese? Yeah. Do you know, it's a tough question that, mate. It often depends what. I mean. In this sort of weather, you can't be doing with the cheddar, but a good cheddar takes some beating during cooler climbs at the moment. I went for a whiff of bath soft cheese last night. Have you come across that yet? No, I'm. Some more camembert. It's not dissimilar to a camembert, but it's from. It's from bar. It's from. It's from the west country. So it's. It's like a british sort of soft camembert. It's organic cow's milk. It's nice. But I mean, I like a cave aged compte. I like a gruyere. I know there's a fact. You know what, Dave? Between you and me, I've never met a cheese I didn't like. No, I love cheese. We're going to France soon, so we're going to try a few more. Oh, fantastic. Yeah, we can't get through because of the ferries. We did. We did a show once in the olden days when we dedicated a whole hour of the program to the question of whether or not there's any food on the planet that can't be improved by the addition of cheese. Was there any. Well, chinese food. Well, you've got paneer, you see. Paneer is cheese. Right, isn't it? You're real connoisseur, aren't you? Oh, when it comes to cheeses, mate, I'm cheeses of Nazareth, thank you very much. Who is that for, me or Dave? A bit of both. Dave, have a cracking trip. Keep me up to date with any developments on the cheeses front. Professor Hal is here. I hope. Professor Hal from the University of Science, where you rejoice in the title professor of the public understanding of science. I hope you're going to do the fanning question because that's the one that seems to me to need the scientific input. Put the University of Science. University of Brighton. What? Oh, all right. Okay. Okay. How many words a week do you reckon I speak on unscripted? 25,000 on air, 15 hours a week without a single script in front of all the others. I haven't got all my questions written down in advance or guests lined up to make it easy, you know, and then I speak one word wrong and everyone thinks it's flipping hilarious. University of Brighton. The public understanding of science. Right, what have you got? The dean's now giving a big sigh of relief. Good. Yes. Fanning. Very, very interesting. It's all to do with sweat. Sweat is actually there for thermoregulation, it cools you down. Yes, but it doesn't cool you down in the same way as using a host pipe of cold water, because, of course, the sweat is at the same temperature as your body, so it doesn't draw any heat from it. The way sweat works is it evaporates. And when a liquid evaporates, it actually draws heat from whatever is evaporating off. It's called the latent heat of vaporization. So when you sweat, your sweat evaporates, and in so doing, it carries away heat. Now, the fanning bit comes in, because when you fan, you blow away what's called diffusion shells. This is layers of saturated air above your skin. And every time you blow away that saturated air, more sweat evaporates to fill the gap. And therefore, fanning does work. Same reason you have. You know, you found a radiator on your car. You're just moving a medium over another medium. But it's all to do with latent heat of vaporization. So it does work. Moving warm air, replacing it with cool air. Effectively, yes, sort of. The fan in the office on a very hot day does serve a purpose. So, I mean, the specifics of the question were, will you not, by dint of the muscular exertion, be warming yourself up more than you're cooling yourself down? Well, you answered it perfectly by saying if that was the case, you wouldn't do it. Exactly. So, round of applause to share, then, I think this one isn't it. You all right sharing that? Yeah. It is always a pleasure. What's your favorite cheese? Smoked Bavarian. Interesting. 1241 is the time, professor. How many thanks? Claire is in Upminster. Question or answer, Claire? It's a question. James? Yes. Why do we call an afternoon show a matinee when Mattam is the French for morning? It's a good question, but I think you're looking through the wrong end of the telescope. Right. I presume it just means daytime show. So it's transmuted over the years from morning to afternoon. Perhaps. But the matinee is to distinguish from the evening, isn't it? Not to distinguish from any, anywhere else. But normally, I mean, very, very few shows are in the morning. Haven't we got a. Can't we find a word for an afternoon show? Apricot. That might be the answer to the question. The Martinez, the daytime show, and then the soiree. The evening show. Yeah. No, I'm not convinced. No? No. Okay, I'll leave it up there. What's your favorite cheese? My favorite cheese? I like a brie. I'm a Brie person, definitely. Do you know the etiquette of the nose on a brie? No. Do you? When you say, when you've got a brie and it's just started softening, it's all good to go, but, you know, it's going to be nicer at the. In the. In the middle of the wheel or at the nose of the triangle, right, yeah, quite. What do you do now? Just tell me honestly, Claire, what do you do now with that. With that triangular brie in front of you and the knowledge that the nose of the brie, the peak of the triangle, will be the most delicious bit of it. What do you do? I'll make sure I eat the nose. No, I like you. You see, I did that at a country house once, and it was as if I tried to sleep with a housemaid. It was such a faux pas. They looked at me as scarce. It was almost as bad as the time I mispronounced anchovy at public school. How can you mispronounce anchovy? Anchovy. All right. I offer these nuggets to people, Claire, so that they don't suffer the same sort of social embarrassment that I have suffered in. Well, I'll make sure if I go to a country house and if I have brie, I will not eat the nose. Do not nobble the nose of the brie, Claire, and think of me. It's 1243. Thank you. Why matinee? Frank's in Liverpool. Question or answer, Frank? I've got an answer, James. Great stuff, Frank. Bring it on. Why do people pace when they're on the phone? Yeah, why? Okay, let me take you back to a time when you were newly born. All right? All infants were just a mass of vulnerability. Yes. We're totally at the mercy. The universe. Sometimes things that things are lovely and warm and cozy, that's when, you know, mums got us and we're safe and secure. At other times, we're just there in the dark and everything's scary and bad. The thing is, we've got nothing we can do to help ourselves. The first thing that we can do, which has any kind of control over problem solving, is movement of our limbs, which happens at about the age of ten months, okay? Begins to happen. Up until about ten months, we just. Arms and legs are going to Kimball. We haven't got a clue why or what. About ten months, we start to sush on. Hang on. When I do that, this happens, an arm goes in the air or motor skills. Yeah. Got you like it? Thank you. So that is embedded, that's hardwired into us, that problem solving is identified, is associated, rather with movement. Shut the front door. So when people are in meetings, they want to get up and pace around. When we've got something on our mind, we say, I'm going for a walk. And we go from. Going for a walk isn't going to show whatever's on our mind, but we feel. We feel better, we've got some kind control. You're right, you're right. And because, you know what? Earlier when I was saying I don't walk up and down at work, I was trying to think where. And also I said, you don't walk up and down when you're having a conversation with someone face to face. I was trying to think of circumstances in which you do, and if you're trying to write something with someone else, one of you sits at the typewriter or the computer, and often the other person will be walking up and down because you're trying to think, you're trying to solve problems. The problem that you have now, Frank. Yeah. Is explaining how you know this. What are your qualifications for this? Well, can I first just say, I thought you was going to ask, but why don't we do it on face to face? Because you asked another caller that I think when we're talking face to face, because eye contact is so important. Well, yeah, yeah. There's other conventions that aren't there when you're on the phone. Yes, exactly. Like, you know, you don't tend to speak to people and your wife wants. When you're face to face, do you know the nicest compliment anyone ever paid me? Yeah. So, referring back to an interview I did on the wireless a year ago or so, I said, the best thing about it is that James conducts the whole thing as if he's sitting on his sofa in his pants. Yeah, yeah. I can understand that as a big compliment. It was best compliment I've ever been paid, I think my all time favorite compliment. But I still don't know what your qualifications are to have gone definitive on this one. Well, the qualifications is really based on a couple of books that had about 20 years ago. Fair enough. And I'm. I can't remember the authors. It could have been Desmond Morris, could it? Or someone like that. It wasn't. But you're on the, like, right line. So. So some sort of popular anthropologist. Yeah, yeah. You know, you bang on, but they, they weren't. They were writing about a thing called transaction and transactional analysis. Oh, yeah. Which is, well, you probably know about it and so especially your line of work, it's all about communication and what the investment that you have in an exchange of or communication and trying to get the other person to take up what you're offering. Bang on. Your bang on. And I think the thing, the booth, the big booth that made the breakthrough in that was called I'm okay, you're okay. Okay. It sounds terrible. Sort of like one of those american self elf booths. Actually quite a good booth. Some of them are. I mean, that's the point, isn't it? When it, when it transmuted from anthropology to sort of weird wellness and things. That's where the problem started before. Some of those earlier books are far from Hokum. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Frank. Thanks a lot. You're very welcome. 1247. It's 1252. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We bit light on answers, aren't we? We've got to do the. Why does looking at a bright light make you sneeze? Done the fanning. What's the origin of pinch and punch? Wayne in Basildon knows. He's just texted me, but he's on a job at the moment with his headphones in. It's also his birthday. Happy birthday. So he won't be answering it, even though he did get the answer, as I suggested, out of Brewer's dictionary of phrase and fable, you're not allowed to look stuff up. But Wayne bought Brewer's dictionary of phrase and fable and read it cover to cover about five years ago so that he'd be qualified to comment on mystery hour. If you're allergic to domestic cats, will you be allergic to wild, big, wild cats? Zero. 345-606-0973 and we're going to have to look into this. What sort of inheritance tax will Prince Charles be liable for? For most obviously on Windsor Castle, 1253 is the time Carly is in Gillingham. Carly, question or answer? I have an answer, James. Bring it on. It's regarding the. When you look at the light, it makes you sneeze. It's only some people that happens to. It's not all. And in some people there's a crossover of two neuron pathways. You know if something gets up your nose and it makes you sneeze. Yes. For some people, that pathway is crossed over in the brain, the neuron pathway, as when you look in a bright light. And that makes some people sneeze and it makes me sneeze as well. In fact, I like sneezing, so I do it on purpose. Everyone likes sneezing. Qualifications. I saw it in a scientific journal a couple of years ago. You read a lot of scientific journals, do you, Carly? Scientific American, everything. I love it. Yeah, you got me. Yeah, I was just being. I was just being sort of patronizing and rude then, really, by presuming you don't. Rude, why wouldn't you read scientific journals? Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I'm. It was a brilliant round of applause. In fact, I'm going to give you two. One by way of reward, one by way of apology. No. Yeah, hang on, there it goes again. Look at that double barrel. Have a great day. Are you the Carly and Gillingham that text me a lot? Yes, I am. Keep them coming. I even don't read them out, Carly. I do all read them in. And it's always a pleasure. Jay is in popular. Jay, question or answer? Hello, James. Question. Come on, Jay. Yeah. What is this? How did passports originate, basically? Which country introduced it first and when it was introduced? Other countries. When they just. When did crossover happen that you can't come to our country without a visa and, you know. So when did it start? All the passport issue. I like that. It was short of time. I wish we got you on earlier, actually, so I thought, not really. There might be more questions around. When did it start and who was the first country to use passports and when. You know. I know, I know. I just. I mean, when it started. It'll probably provide the answers to all the other answers to the questions as well, by association. But I just wish if we don't get an answer that. Will you ring in again earlier next week with the same question? Yeah. Okay. Tell Michael I gave you a free pass. All right? Yes. Yeah. So ask to speak to Michael and then say, I've got a free pass. James said he wanted this question again next week. Okay, that's cool. All right, carry on. No one else can do that. No one else heard that, did they? No. I wouldn't want to be you next week, mate. John's in Guilford. John, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The queen of tax. Yes. The queen doesn't pay tax because constitutionally, tax is paid to the queen, so she'd be paying it to herself voluntarily. She pays to the treasury or the. Except whoever. An amount equivalent to the income tax she would pay if she were liable for income tax. Oh, that's very good. Yes. She doesn't pay if she's not liable for corporate afford, not inherited tax. So she's not. She's not likely pays it. And then tax would be the. The wrong word, technically speaking, but. But. So because she's so tax on the queen is wrong because she pays it to herself? Yes, exactly. I'd never thought of it that way around. So really, the logic of this takes us inexorably to the. Because she already owns everything, she doesn't have to pay inheritance tax. Well, about owning everything, that changed. Yeah, but you know what I mean. I know what you mean. Cut me some slack, John. But she doesn't pay tax, so she wouldn't pay corporate inheritance tax, but she voluntarily makes a contribution to the treasury of the income tax she would pay on her income. And there is no voluntary contribution of inheritance tax that they would pay on their inheritance? Not as far as I know. Loving well should be, shouldn't they? Maybe they should, but whether it is or not, your experts would know. But. But that is, if he did have to pay it, it would be voluntary. Okay. And that's also why, when I was talking earlier, and I couldn't quite pin down what I was trying to say about when people say, if you want higher tax rates for the wealthy, why don't you pay more tax yourself voluntarily? It wouldn't be tax if you did that. It would just be a donation to the Treasury. I suppose. That's right, yeah. It's not tax. Tax has to be legally enforced. So the queen doesn't pay it. It's a voluntary arrangement, ergo, it's not taxed. John, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. Tell you what I'd really do for the queen if she had to pay the bedroom tax. Ashley's in Tadworth. Ashley. Question or answer, James? Hopefully an answer. No, no, no, no. Carry on. People are allergic to the saliva of a cat. It's not the fur they're allergic to. So I imagine a big cat, they would be super allergic to it. You sure about this? I am, yeah. My, um. My wife is really allergic to cats and we really wanted to get one, so she looked into what cats she wouldn't have a reaction to, and it turns out it wouldn't be any of them. Even the sphinx cats that don't have any fur. Yeah. You wouldn't want to them anyway, though. I know. Yeah. They're horrible. Yes. It turns out when they obviously see themselves with their. Their tongue and their saliva, that's where the reaction comes from. So. So you be allergic to leopards and lions and tigers as well. Yeah, I suppose. Yeah. Because they. They do the same thing. They've got the same grooming habits. Round of applause for Ashley, please. Quick. I want to squeeze in one more, if I can. Tony's in Kingston. Question or answer, Tony. This came up on television last week in Donald Sinden series about great London theatres, about matinees. Yes. And the explanation given there. So don't blame me if it's wrong. Carry on. Is that until sometime in the late 19th century, the word afternoon was not used in common parlance. So a matinee performance indicated anything from the morning and before the eve. Bada bing, bada boom. Round of applause for Tony. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. I'm James O'Brien. This is LBC. Here is Sheila Fogarty. Thanks.