Can you tickle in wrestling? - 12 Mar 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time and you are indeed listening to mystery hour with me. James O'Brien on LBC talking about that bloke hardly ever makes a mistake. What I can tell you is that things have gone a bit nuts. But we haven't actually called much. From the calls that have already come in, there are two rules repetition and dullness will see you excluded from asking a question on Mystery Hour, and 98% of the calls to come in over the course of the 12:00 news fell into one or both of those categories. So this will probably be your best chance of the next 54 minutes to get on the board. If you think you've got a question, ring with it now and you will get through. Zero 345-606-0973 and I should probably explain how it works. You've got somewhere lurking in the back of your mind a mystery, a question to which you are desperate to secure an answer. You know that it might be a who, a why, a where, a when, a whither, or even occasionally aware. For that's all you need to have, really. It could be something horribly serious, desperately grown up, deeply academic, scientific and complicated, or it could be something of unerring simplicity. It could be something of quite epic ease. Point is, you don't know the answer to it and you want to. Well, ring me now on zero 345-606-0973 and we will get you an answer. If you don't want to get involved, that's fine. Just sit back, put your feet up and accept this guarantee that by 01:00 today you will know more than you do now. It really is that simple. It might not be knowledge that you're grateful for. It might not be knowledge that you can ever use again. It might not even be knowledge that you can remember by tea time. But you will know more at 01:00 today than you do now. You'll only hear me say the number when I have phone lines free because it's getting more popular every week. We're getting stricter and stricter and stricter, which means the first five or six minutes of mystery hour now are spent politely inviting people to vacate the phone line that they've just taken up. That's why I would urge you to not give up. If you think you've got a good one and you don't get through first time and employ judicious use of reader to ensure that you get on the board. I don't take texts, emails or tweets. And the only rule if you're going to answer a question is that you're not allowed to look it up. Obviously the answer you provide has to come from knowledge that you've accrued in the course of your life. I like that because can you imagine what the world was like? I was explaining to colleagues the other day that when I started on the Daily Express, there wasn't an Internet terminal in the office and I'm only 43, so I started on the expression probably 18 years ago, 19 years ago, my first time on a newspaper, I did shifts on the express and shifts on the Sunday Telegraph, and there was not Internet access in that office. National newspaper. Imagine explaining that to someone who's like eleven or twelve. No, you could. The Internet, I mean, it just existed, but you couldn't get onto the Internet. You had to go to the cuttings library when I started and actually give them a name or an issue. So you'd say something like the IMF or Michael Heseltine, and then the fellow would go back into this capacious and come out with a folder full of newspaper cuttings that someone else had cut out of the newspapers over the course of the previous years and filed according to topic heading and subject matter. That's not the world I want to return to, but I want to take a sort of a quick glance in the rearview mirror and remember the days when we actually had to know stuff because we couldn't find out answers to everything we wanted to find out answers to by going online. And of course, some questions won't have answers that are accessible via works of reference. So you're not allowed to use Google or Bing or anything else. You're not allowed to use the Encyclopedia Britannica or Brewers Dictionary of Phrase and Fable. If you know the answer because you've read those books before, that's fine, but you're not allowed to look anything up before ringing in to answer questions. One phone line, 30 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Should we crack on? I think we should. David is in Shepperton. David, what's your question? Hi, James. Hello, mate. If you ignore somebody or shun somebody. Yes. You give them the cold shoulder. Why is it called the cold shoulder? Isn't it obvious? Say that again. Isn't it obvious? Uh, no. I mean, you're trying to. You're trying to give me a hug. Yeah. And I swerve. And that means you've got my shoulder. Yeah. Why is it cold, though? You don't give someone the hot shoulder if you like them. No, you wouldn't anyway. I mean, you just. You just. You know, I've never heard of cold gossip either, but. But I've heard a hot golf. I'm not going to go definitive on that, but I think it's just a physical. You'd still want to know why, wouldn't you? And where it came from originally and who said it first. I just stress we only take one thing on the origins of phrases. Until we've dealt with this one, we don't want any more. Because sometimes when people ask a question like that, then a hundred other people ring and say, what's the origin of the phrase cheapest chips? Or something like that? Why do you want to know? Well, I woke up in the night in winter. Yes. And my arm was out of the bed and it was cold. I had a cold shoulder, so I thought I wanted to relate that. Tell you what, Dave, you're a natural storyteller, aren't you, mate? Carry on. Eddie's in or set in Essex. Eddie. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Yes. I just wondered, is there a reason why the lights on all emergency vehicles are blue as opposed to. As opposed to red or green? I think red, most obviously. But you've got traffic lights. I imagine you couldn't have had anything that was on the traffic lights in case you thought there was an ambulance coming up behind you. But it's actually just the traffic lights. That's a rubbish answer, isn't it, mate? It is a little. I could tell from your silence that you were politely sort of avoiding getting involved in that. I'll do that. Yeah. No, I respect you for that and I'm grateful. Why do emergency vehicles have blue lights on top of them? Not any other colour at all. It'll be because they're the best. But you want to know why they're the best? Why is a blue light best for a vehicle that might be swerving through traffic? Are they the best? I don't want to start a conversation like that. Why not? It's mystery how anything goes. They must be the best. I don't want Nigel Farage phone not saying what colors are best. I don't think that's going to happen on my watch, mate. But don't worry, they'll be rolling out the red carpet elsewhere. Stacey is in bed. Font. Stacey. What would you like to say hi, James? I wanted to know origins of why. Why do we get dizzy? Why do we get that nauseous feeling when we spin around? And what's the chemical thing that makes it happen? Like, ballerinas don't get it. Maybe they train themselves out of it. My daughter, she'll spin around for ages and ages and ages. She gets up and she's fine. Also, kids love getting dizzy. Feels like a hangover. It feels like you're half drunk, half hungover. Do you remember when we used to do Roly Poly's downhill, Stacey? Well, not you and me together, obviously. We. Unless I've forgotten. But that used to be fun. It used to be fun to do rolling parties, downhills, or to do that thing with the broom. Now it feels awful. Yeah. I mean, I think doing it is fun, but afterwards, I don't think anyone is. Love it. Kids love being dizzy. They love staggering around the garden, falling over the furniture and stuff like that. My daughter doesn't. It's funny. It's the strangest thing. I watch her for about ten minutes, spinning around on that little toy, and she gets up and she can walk in a straight line and everything's fine. So you want. You want. You want the physiological explanation rather than the evolutionary justification. You don't want to know why we get dizzy. What's. What purpose does it serve? You want to know how it works, how the body actually delivers? Both. If I know what happens. You can work chemical, then I can. Yeah, because you get people that, like, trained in sports that never get dizzy and you think if they did, then it would make them not good at the thing they're trying to do. Like, for example, flatland BMX. When they spin around, they do stunts on the spot and they keep spinning. Or ballerinas. If you're concentrating on something else, you don't actually get dizzy. But I could be wrong. Why am I even talking? I haven't got a Scooby doo, mate. I'll just stick it on the board. Shall I get you an answer? Thank you. You're very welcome. Seriously, everyone's been so polite today. Cold shoulder, blue lights and dizzy. Oh, that was a track. Do you remember dizzy? Was it the wonder stuff with Vic Reeves? It's a lovely song, that Tracy's in stone. In Staffordshire or somewhere else. Tracy in Staffordshire. Oh, a lovely part of the world. I know. You're mp. Oh, yeah. He's charming, isn't he? He is a lovely man. What would you like to say? Well, you got a question? Or an answer for me, it's a question. It's actually my eight year old son and husband's question. And is it illegal to tickle in wrestling? Oh, that's a thing of wonder. You'd win everything. I mean, like WWF and stuff like that. Yes. Yes. Theatrical, anyway. But I've never seen. I'm sort of big daddy giant haystacks era myself, Tracy. I never. I don't remember Mick McManus ever getting giant haystacks in a headlock and then tickling him into submission. It would make it better, I think, to us. Tickling is a funny thing, though, sometimes, isn't it? You can. You can almost turn it off. I think everyone's ticklish, though, aren't they, somewhere? Apparently not. Some people claim they're not ticklish at all. Are they just lying? They probably are. I don't know who'd be able to answer that. We'd need, what, a wrestling referee or a wrestling expert? I think so, yes. Someone like that might sort of, you know, or someone who's really into the sport might read lots of books on it or something. Love it, love it, love it. Must have happened at some point. Who came up with it? The eight year old or the husband? I think it was a joint effort, actually. Well, I'm going to give all the credit to the eight year old congratulating from me on one of the finest mystery act questions of all time. Thank you very much, Tracy. It's 14 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Origins of the phrase cold shoulder. Why do emergency vehicles have blue lights? Explain dizziness to me from a scientific perspective. And are you allowed to tickle your opponent when you're having a WrestleMania 1214 is the time. This is LBC Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 19 minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery Hour is underway. Trying to get answers to questions including the origins of the phrase cold shoulder. Wide emergency vehicles sport blue lights. What happens when you get dizzy? And are you allowed to tickle in a wrestling match? No prizes for guessing what my favorite question is out of those four, but they're all pretty good. Let's go to Martin, who's in wood green? Martin, question or answer? It's a question. A food question. Go on. Yeah, right. The other day I had some frozen tuna. It was in a vacuum pack, and on the back of the box it said, once it's defrosted, defrost in a fridge and cook it within 24 hours? And he said, but do not refreeze it. Yeah. Right. Now, why? What would it do if I froze it again? What would it do to me if I didn't cook it? I've had frozen meat as well. It says that on there. It's bacteria. It's bacteria that wouldn't get killed in the freezer. Yeah, but it's in a vacuum pack, so there's no air can get to it. Oh, well done. So you mean, what if I took it out in the vacuum pack and it defrosted in the vacuum pack and I put it back in the freezer? In the vacuum pack? No, that's different in it. But say, like, you get a bit of tuna, it comes in that vacuum pack. Right. And you do, you defrost it in the fridge. You haven't broke the seal or anything on it. It said on there, do not refreeze. I don't know. Maybe you could refreeze it if you didn't actually open it. I don't know. That's the question. He didn't say that. And I had a lump of meat as well. It said exactly the same thing. Everyone's seen that, mate. I don't think you've made any sort of discovery on the do not refreeze front. I'm just trying to work out whether or not it is. It might be a hangover from the days when things weren't vacuum packed. Because, I mean, the obvious answer is that there are bacterias that get into the food while it's defrosted that won't be killed by the freezing process. But you're right to say the package. Crikey. Is this a really boring question or a really interesting one, Martin? I mean, it could save lives. This guy could save lives, this question, couldn't it? In some way? Yeah. All right, I'll find out for you. Why can't you refreeze food? And is that actually still as accurate or as fair an instruction? If it's completely airtight? Vacuum packed 21 minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. Nick's in Soho. Nick, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got an answer to your cold shoulder question. All right, cheer up. It takes a lot of concentration to remember, but I expect a little exuberance when you get through to mystery. Sorry, James. Very, very nice to meet you. What have you got for me? Cold shoulder. Okay. When the country was split up into kingdoms many, many moons ago, and your knights of the realm of each different kingdom would be riding around on their duties. If they traveled into another person's patch, so to speak, and they needed to rest for the night, then they would be able to stop a peasants or a lower being's home and then demand that they put them up for the night and feed them. Now, sometimes these people would outstay their welcome and. But the, the peasantry weren't allowed to tell them to go, because they were essentially royalty. So they would, um. The only way they could do it was to give them a cold shoulder of meat, an indication that it's time for them to leave. So it is something you serve up to a guest. You want to. You want to do one? Absolutely. I'm going to go with that. I don't know that. I don't know that your sort of grasp of medieval history is as accurate as. It's not. It's not. And I'm afraid my. The actual offering in the first place comes from a friend of mine who's into these sort of things and I just loved it. So those are your qualifications, as your friend told you? Absolutely. That's a perfectly valid qualification. I like it and it makes perfect sense. So you're giving them the cold shoulder? It's nothing to do with your own shoulder. It's a shoulder of meat and it's so cold. Give me cold meat. Hey, you know what you've done? What? You know what you've done. What have I done? You've gone Clarkson, that's why. Clarkson had a wobbly. He wanted a stake. He got off into cold shoulder and he went on. So come here. That is absolutely incredible. That's unbelievable. It's the only hour of the week when we're not doing the news and you've just driven the news smack into the middle of mystery hour at 100 miles an hour. Give him a round of applause. I know it's a little bit out of the ordinary, but that deserves it. We should have given a round of applause for the tickler question as well, but it was secondhand. It wasn't the actual originator of the question that rang in. Nick, that is beautiful. Beautifully done. And you do deserve a round applause because you provided an answer, but I'm giving you another one for the Clarkson reference. Thank you. Carry on, mate. There you go. We got exuberant in the end, didn't we? Absolutely did. Thank you very much. Matthew's in Clapper. Matthew, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Come on, then. This is to do with the dizzy question, he wanted to know, what was it biologically makes us dizzy or chemically? I think you were saying, yeah, yeah. Right now, yeah, yeah. I think. I think there is. This is something I remember being taught to me at school. Now, there's a. There's a liquid in your ear canal. I think it's quite far down in your ear canal, which acts almost like a spirit level. So if you spin around around, this liquid gets whipped up. So once you stop spinning, there's a conflict in your brain as it perceives that your eyes are now fixed, but yet this liquid in your ear is still moving, which gives you that dizzy sensation. I don't quite buy that. Okay. Which I tell you why. Go on. I think you're probably nearly there, but why would it continue spinning around and no other liquid does? You've got a glass of water, you can put your hand over it, shake it up and down like a mad thing. Put it down. It's only going to carry on moving for a couple of nanoseconds, isn't it? Well, you stay dizzy for ages after you've done a bit of a roly poly. Well, yes, yeah, I understand what you're saying. Probably the time difference of the water setting down to how long you remain dizzy is probably out of sync, I would say, like you're saying, but I think that it does swirl around in the chamber, in your ear roll, and it might take a bit of time for it to settle down. I don't know. It might take a bit of time for the liquid. Yeah. And it might not be. I mean, it might be pressurized so that the, you know, the liquid takes a while. I don't know. I'm going to let Jones decide. Are you comfortable with that? Let Jones have the casting vote on this, Matthew? Yeah, yeah, that's fine, but do give me a round of applause in a retrospect, if you could. No, no. I mean, I'm going to let Jones. Jones the engineer is listening now. He's going to say, if you hear, I'll just throw it to him and see whether or not it gets any applause or not. All right, stay there. Okay? Yeah, yeah. Ready? Yeah. Whoa. Okay, nicely played, nicely played. Liquid in your ear canal, you got a bit of boom. Well, Professor Martin Smith is here to raise the academic tone. Question or answer? Professor Smith. It's an answer to the defrosting problem. Oh, we've got a bit of a problem here. Oh, dear. Oh, God. Has this never happened before? Guys, who's online to Professor Howe oh, no. It's a clash of the professors. It had to happen sooner or later. Do you think this is like Obi Wan Kenobi and Darth Vader squaring up at the end of the first Star wars film, isn't it, Martin? I am your father. Are you doing the same? What question do you want to go for, Martin? Well, I can only do the defrosting one. How? What are you here for? I can only do the defrost. Oh, my God. I don't know what to do. I feel quite scared. Well, Martin was fast. Martin, take it away. Professor Martin Smith, professor of robotics in the Middlesex. University of Middlesex. Professor Hal Sozobowski, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Fight. Go on, Martin. Okay. Well, when they discovered that freezing food was a good preservative, they also, nobody liked the taste of the food because it was horrid afterwards. And a chap called Clarence Birdseye did some experiments where he discovered that the reason that the food tastes horrid afterwards was when you freeze it, if you get large crystals forming, they can burst the cells of the food and destroy the food. And what he discovered was, if you froze it slowly, but then very quickly between the two key temperatures, that fact of quick freezing produced very small crystals which didn't destroy the cell membranes of the food. And the food tasted lovely afterwards. So the only reason you don't refreeze it after defrosting it is because it tastes rank, not because it would kill you. That's right, yes. Okay. You know what I have to do, don't you? Um, no. Well, I can't. I have to. I'm going by professor, by professorial. Now. I have to throw it to Hal and ask him what he thought of that. Oh, right. Fair enough. I gently disagree. Oh, no. Oh, flippy deck. Go on. First and foremost, vacuum packing doesn't. It's not like putting something in a can seal it. Bacon, for example, is vacuum packed, but it still goes off very quickly. Yeah, good point. The problem with freezing is it doesn't actually kill bacteria. It just slows down their rate of reaction. So it's basically, you can't leave things in a freezer indefinitely because the bacteria, they still metabolize, but they do so very, very slowly. If you take something out of the freezer and they warm up, they then start metabolizing and reproducing. And if you then put it back in the freezer, you've got a heightened level of bacteria, which means that when someone eventually takes it out. Needs it. It may well be infected. That's what I thought originally. Sorry, that's what I thought originally. Is there any chance you're both right? No, he's not. He's not wrong. But he said. I mean, I understand the thing about ice crystals because that happens in ice cream, you know, it's all about mouth feel and food flavor. But I don't think it addresses the question that the op. The original caller. Do I have to? Actually, I have to make a judgment now. I think you should give it to Hal because I think his is slightly more accurate than mine. Mine is about taste. But, yeah, I think that. I think the two effects are true. One is that the food will taste awful, but also that the bacteria will be bigger worry. I mean, I'm glad you said. That was very gracious of you, Professor Smith. I'm well known for it. Yeah, well, I'm clearly even better known now. Professor Hal, this is for you. Actually, gents, can we. Can we not do this again? Because the stress is going to kill me. All right, seriously. It's 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Time now is 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we continue to bring reason and rationality where previously there was none. You now know why the phrase cold shoulder regularly applied to people whose company you would rather eschew. You also know why you can't refreeze food after it's defrosted. If you missed that, you missed an epic clash of the professors. But we still need to know. And you also know why you feel dizzy. Why do emergency vehicles have blue lights? And are you allowed to tickle people when you're having a wrestle? Andy's in Rochester. Andy, question or answer, James. Yes. In your own time, Andy. In relation to the blue lights, it was deemed that the blue light was the brightest light, especially at nighttime, for emergency vehicles. Some countries adopted the blue and red, but in the UK, we only have blue and red on the rear of emergency vehicles when they're stationary, because the red light means danger. So therefore, especially on motorways, as vehicles are approaching, they can see it's an emergency vehicle, but the red light is also flashing. To alert drivers, they can take inverted action. So the answer assembly is because it's brighter. Yeah. It's the brightest light, which is more visible at nighttime and we only use red and blue at night. Yeah. No, I've got you. And the same reason why you've got different lights on the fronts and backs. Of cars. So that if it's stopped, you know, that it stopped in front of you. What are your qualifications, Andy? Police officer. They don't train. They don't teach you this at Endon, though? No, no, no. But when we were doing our training, someone did actually ask the same question. Oh, okay. That was the reason. We should have called it a Prof. Off, shouldn't we, Andy? That's what we should have. Not a clash of the Prof. Off. We had our first ever Prof. Off. Who sent that in? I should give you a thanks. Thanks, Jason. Angels in hand. An angel. Question or answer? Well, it's an answer to a question that's been partially answered. And you did point out to the caller that you did feel that it was a partial answer. It's the ear. Yes. Go on. Yeah, so he's right. In your inner ear, you have a liquid. That liquid actually sends a message to your brain via your central nervous system. And your brain processes that now the same as with. We've talked about this before, different body temperatures, people liking more hugs. Less hugs. Why your wife feels hot and you feel cold. The other way around. Whatever. It's different. People's brains process the information from the central nervous system differently and for different periods of time. So it's not that the liquid continues to spin around in your ear. It's that your brain is processing it either more or less intensely, which makes you feel dizzy. Now, you get people who will go on roller coaster rides and up south, downright all the time, and they seek it, and they don't necessarily feel dizzy. Yes. Or they feel dizzy for a very, very short period. Does it change as you get older as well? Generally, your vestibular system does change as you get older. And for most people in their younger years and teens, they will be able to tolerate or process less the vestibular information. So they'll spin much more and they'll enjoy these things. I've gone right off roller coasters, angel, I have to tell you. And that's why that's very normal. People generally do as they age. Not everybody, but most people will process more of the sensory vestibular system information as they get older, and therefore they like spinning less than children do. Qualifications? I'm a pediatric occupational therapist specializing in sensory processing. As qualifications go, I think that's probably adequate. Thank you. Thank you very much indeed. Lovely answer. 1238 is the time. Wayne, mate. Wayne's in Basildon. This is getting a bit silly. Now. Just because you became a dad two weeks ago doesn't mean I'm going to start lowering the bar and allowing you on every week. Well, the questions that you're still on parental leave. Are you still on parental leave? No, I'm actually. I'm actually back to work at a minute. Oh, yeah. Carry on. Yeah, I've got an answer for you. So it's a tough, tough day, is it? Yeah, yeah. Dragging most of the grindstone. I'm doing my best. What have you got? What's the answer? It's the answer to the ticket. In wrestling, are you allowed to tickle your opponent? Yes, you are. There used to be a character back in the nineties called doink the clown, and one of his little moves to antagonize his opponent was to tick them under the arms. Shut the front door. Really? Seriously? This is WWE or WWF? It was WWF at the time, and he was later paired up with his tag team partner, dink the clown. And they used to just play practical jokes on their opponents. At one point, they did beat another opponent with a prosthetic arm. Yeah, that's a good job. You discovered this show when you did, isn't it, Wayne? It really is. From the two professors to this. Yes. The problem is that I guess there's several answers on there, because in Olympic wrestling, I'm presuming you wouldn't be allowed to tickle your opponent. No, but I'm guessing they're talking about pro wrestling. I'm going to give you. Well, I don't know if they were, actually, but I'm going to give you a round of applause. There was a character called Doink the clown who regularly tickled their opponent. That's answer number one. It's going all the way to staffordshire this one, so you get a round of applause for that. But I'm getting some messages via social, via text and tweet, including one from the basically alarm himself. Or herself. I thought you didn't take tweets or. No, I don't. But I'll make an exception for the basically alarm because it's an act of such epic homage to the program that it would be wrong of me to completely ignore it. And anyway, I'm not going to tell you what the answer is. I'm just going to say that they've gone into a little bit more detail, which. Which leads me to conclude, Wayne, that there may be some mileage in leaving the other half of the question. That is the technical, more official, olympic style wrestling side of the. I want to put all the money on now. Talking about WWE. Yeah. No, well, that's why you got your round of applause and now we're leaving the question up there and we're moving it into the realms of competitive sport, a proper sport, you know, like Olympic stuff. You said, WWE is not. No, that's why my voice went funny then. And that's why I was gesturing to Jones to cut you off, because I didn't want to do this. Has he gone there? Yeah. Convenient. Oh, well done. I didn't think you were going to ring. Himanshu is in Chancery Lane. Himanshu. Question or answer? It's a question, James, and I'm going to read your mind. Hang on. You want to know how they get fireworks? Fireworks? To do the shapes in the sky? That's a very good guess. And you've got it right. Yes. So how do they get fireworks to display hearts and images and stars when they go off? It's actually. I've actually wondered about this since October 2014. I know. You came to my comedy shots. You came to my comedy show to try and get a special dispensation to get a question on mystery without actually ringing in. Yeah. Didn't. Didn't work. No, no. You had to bring in like everybody else does. I don't care how important your job is. Yes. And actually, I actually want a definitive answer, otherwise the applause police will be on you. And my brother, Hitesh. Brother does indeed do the applause police on mister gets very cross when we give out applause a little too generously. All right, you're on. I'm. Well played. I like that question. Everyone's wondered that at some point you get a rough shape, but how do they get fireworks in the sky to pursue or to depict such specific and successful shapes? Someone will know that someone listening to this will be in the fireworks business. Thank you, Himanshu. Jayco is in Bexley. Heath. Jacob, question or answer? Question, please. James. Yes. I would like to know what is the reason for the dark patches on the moon? Yeah. So when you look at the moon and it looks a bit sort of spotty, as it were. Yes, exactly. We know there's no water, there's no oceans. So what creates the dark patches on the moon? How big are the sort of mountains and valleys? How much would there be shadow there? There would be shadow there because the moon is illuminated by light from the sun. There would be shadow, wouldn't there? Come off. That was a clever intervention and that noise you made was quite contemptuous. Yes. Yes. It was me you saw. I think that's quite a good. It'd be shadow. Won't it? No, I don't think the shadows will be big enough to cause such a large, black, dark spot. Okay. Or patch. No, you're. You might be onto something. I'll see. So what causes the dark patches on the moon? I like that. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer it, there should be time. John's in Camden. John, question or answer? Question. Yes. Adam. As in Adam and Eve. Is Adam related to Jesus? In what way? Well, the christian doctrine is that every human being ever is descended from Adam and Eve. So under the terms of biblical teaching, then. Yes, but I don't know. They would be brothers then. Brothers? Because if the. Whoever created Adam, everybody knows, was God, and the person who created Jesus was God and his earthly mother was Mary. Yeah. I mean, would that make Adam and eve brothers? I'm sorry? Would that make Adam and Jesus brothers? Well, no, it wouldn't. Why? Well, how did we get here? Who are we related to? We related to Adam? I think you might have got the wrong end of the stick when I described this as mystery hour, John. You reckon? Yeah. So if we're related to Adam. Yeah. All of us? Yeah. How are we connected to Jesus, then? Well, in the sense of having a common ancestor. We're all connected to each other. If you believe that all humanity descends from Adam and eve. I don't believe that. Well, then why have you wronged me? Because I'm curious. Because everybody knows the person who created, or the entity, or the force, or whichever created Adam was God. Everybody knows that God created Adam and eve. So he must be the father, he must be the daddy. Why must he be? He's God. He can do whatever he wants. He made Eve out of mud and an old rib. So who created Jesus, then? He was immaculate. He was the immaculate conception. Right. I don't think you're being quite as clever as you think you are, John. No, I'm not. I'm just asking a question. I'm glad we agree on that. Okay. Okay. All right, 1245. Ten minutes to one is the time. Let's crack on with mystery hour. There's a stewards inquiry potentially underway. Some people are telling me that although doink the clown did indeed deed employ tickling as an opponent's baiting technique during the heydays of WWE, he wasn't actually technically supposed to. Oh. But we still need an answer to the question of whether you're allowed to tickle your opponent in an Olympic or a Commonwealth Games wrestling match. And why do we have shadows on the moon. Steve's in Northern Ireland. Steve. Question or answer? Question. Carry on, Steve. As a young lad, I used to live in Tooting, southwest London. Oh, yes. And next to the Granada cinema, Tooting was a pub called the Castle. Now, as a young lad, me and a friend and my dad saw a picture behind the bar of John Wayne actually pulling a pint in that pub. Right. But nobody seems to know when he did it. It's just been a mystery since. Since I was a kid and I've tried to trace it and I've. What was the pub called again? It was called the castle in Tooting. It was. Right. Next. Sorry, is it still there? Yeah. And is the picture still people who owned it? I love this. Quite. I love the fact you've rung in with this. I don't. I'm not very optimistic about it, though. What happened when you asked the people in the pub? They said the picture was there when they got there. Now, some elderly people over there. Yeah. And I've asked and asked and I'm telling you. I've been asking this question since I was about twelve and it's bugged me ever since. I don't understand where the scepticism comes from. There's a picture of him pulling a pint in the castle in Tooting. Why do you think he might not have been there? Well, nobody else seems to know. But why would they? Well, you would have thought a big celebrity of that would have been in one of the local papers or something. Why? Maybe it was. Have you checked the local papers? Yeah. Nothing doing. Nothing doing. Could it have happened before he was famous? Elderly people, they say. Well, I don't remember John Wayne coming here. But you wouldn't. He only popped in for a pint and the landlord took a picture. He came in for a milk. Get off your horse and drink your milk. It's just bug me. Since I was about twelve. My dad, my mate and obviously myself, we saw this picture, right? And it's bugged us ever since I was twelve years old. And nobody knows the origin of this picture, when or where or when he actually did it. Well, it. It's. It's. I mean, it's. But it's a mystery to me. I thought. I thought the. I thought the note with the picture said they actually opened the pub in 1948. He didn't. Are you sure about that? It was the Newcastle, wasn't it? The new castle in 1948 was filming in the area. Might have been. Might have been Brannigan, because that was filmed in batter that was filmed in the seventies. Filmed in the seventies, but there was no. I can't find any information about you in Northern Ireland, mate. Yeah, I am now, but I do go back, you know. I'm not staying in the little cottage in the end. Well, I mean, just off the top of my head, I thought John Wayne opened the Newcastle in tooting in 1948. Well, nobody seems to know if the answer is on the photo, if the answer is actually on the. When did you last go in there? Oh, ages ago. It's not there anymore. The phone. It's gone. The phone is gone. Oh, and I must have been the way I must have been. It was. Would have been about four years. We need to free up a couple of phone lines. We've got four minutes left on this. Are you all right, Steve? I mean, that in many ways is possibly the first time I felt even mystery. I might not be fit to rise to this particular challenge, but, hey, if you build it, they will come. No, he hasn't made the whole thing. Lots of people are telling me he opened it in 1940. Ring in. Ring in. Ok. Zero. 345-606-0973 James is in southend. Question or answer, James? And I'm answering the moon question. Moon. Shadows on the moon. Yes. So when. It's a bit long period of time, this happened, but when the Earth was formed, a big planet shaped moon came in and hit it. Yes. This caused the main gray part of the moon, the darker bit, but other bits. Then the moon. The moon sort of circulated the Earth for a little bit with debris that collected and it turned into the ball that we see up there. Now, the other darker bits on the moon, impacts from asteroids, ejector. Yes. Projectiles are just saving us from. From asteroid hits. So that. So they are shadows in a way. It's more so like. Yeah, well, I wouldn't call them shadow. They're reflecting the light differently from the other areas. A crater. Yeah. Okay, it's a crater. So it is topographic. Topographical features, yes. Just a crater. I'm trying to sound clever. It's topographical features, yeah. Okay, the moon's slightly white, so it's just like a dust. Every meteorite hits it, it displaces. What are your qualifications? I knew a teacher in geography when I was a kid. Yeah, so it's school. To be fair, mate, we all knew teachers when we were kids. Yeah, I think it's. It's just. This is just from school. It's common knowledge. Stop snorting. When did this start happening? Okay, round of applause. For James, it is just I don't think the fellow who asked the question would like that answer. He was a bit sneery, frankly, but I think he. You're probably right. Andy is in St. Albans. Andy, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. It's a question, please. Oh, it's a bit late in the day, mate, and I'm hanging on for John Wayne, to be honest with you. But anyway, carry on. I just would like to know, why is water sometimes slippery and other times it gives you more grip? Because in the supermarket you have those orange signs that say slippery because the floor is wet. Other times, if you want to open a difficult plastic bag or turn a newspaper page over, you lick your finger. Oil give you more grip. It's about oil, isn't it? I don't know. Nor do I. I'm not going to get away with that answer either. Save it for next week. Well, you might have to. It's nearly 1257. It's no one good to know anything about John Wayne in Tooting. I'm afraid not, no, mate, have another go. Have a thing. You need me to fill in the time up to the news. No phones coming out my ears, but they're all questions not. Oh, hang on, Tony's inside. I'll see what I can do. Andy, why does water sometimes make things slippy and sometimes make things easier to grip? Tony is in. It says here, seafood. But I'm thinking there might have been a typo there. Tony? Yeah, it's seafood. Seafood. Okay. Well, you never know. You might have been the fish finger king of East Sussex. Nothing like it. I've got an answer for you, James. Good. What, to John Wayne? Yeah, it's a possible answer, yeah. In the early seventies, there was a tooting carnival and John Wayne was sitting in the car waving to everybody in the carnival procession. I mean, it surprised me. The front door, the real John Wayne just sitting there, cool as you like. Honestly, it surprised me. Did you wave back? Um, no, because I was in you. I was in uniform at the time, just looking after the crowds. What, police officer? Yeah, John Wayne. That was when he was filming Brannigan in Battersea. Oh, was it? I don't know. Yeah, roughly. But whether or not that ties in with why there was a picture up in the castle pub. Well, I was thinking, because the castle's in tooting, and I saw him in tooting. Perhaps he went in for a quick question we forgot to ask Stephen how long ago it was when he last saw him. When he lost, he said, ages ago. Might have been in the 1970s. Where are we getting the idea that he opened the pub in 1948 from? I don't know. Oh, we got a sighting of him in tooting in the 1970s. Yeah. Well, that's pretty powerful stuff. I mean, you know, do I get a clap or something? I don't know, really? I'll let Sheila Fogarty decide. We got a round of applause. Oh, fantastic. Get off your heart drinking milk. Um. I don't know when John Wayne became Irish either. That's it from me for another day. I would only miss you. I've got is. Why not started snorting instead of laughing? I'll try and solve that by 10:00 tomorrow morning when I will have the privilege of addressing you once more. Until then, have a cracking afternoon. You are listening to James O'Brien on Elba and the next voice you will hear does indeed belong to Sheila Fogarty. Head over a bowl of steam. We'll solve that for.