Why are all bubbles white?

LBC. Three minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. I've just seen what the Facebook page says about that hour we did together at 10:00 don't be jealous of the 25 year old Duke who's just inherited 9 billion pounds, says James. Feel sorry for him. I think out of context that's going to prompt some very interesting responses. It's already a bit of a safari park, our Facebook page, to be honest with you, in the sense that there's loads and loads of trolls there and you can go and laugh at them if you want, but, uh, but that is gonna, that's gonna prompt some interesting responses. Thankfully, we concern ourselves now exclusively with the little mysteries, or indeed the big mysteries in your life that are in need of solving. And we are quite seriously here to help. Four after twelve is the time. If you have a question, a who, a why, a when, a wherefore, or indeed a whither, a whence, call me now on zero 345-606-0973 this is mystery hour. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that is not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You know how the newspaper and magazine equivalents work. You will write in to ask, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's all that about? What's the origin of this? What's the meaning of that? You know what I mean. You know it's got an answer. You know, you could probably find out that answer yourself, or you've tried to and failed, but you also know that it's highly likely someone else will just know. And that's where mystery hour comes in. You're not allowed to look stuff up. If you hear someone ring in with a question, you're obviously not allowed to google it. That's a pointless exercise because this is an hour of radio dedicated to old fashioned values like education, enlightenment, knowledge, learning and sharing of learning as well, which is a thing of beauty historically. If you've got a question, call me now. If you hear someone else ask a question that you know the answer to, ring in. There are only two rules. The first few minutes are a little bit tricky because it's growing in popularity pretty much on a weekly basis. Mystery, the whole show is now being listened to by more people than ever before in the history of LBC. But of course, what that means is people might be ringing in with questions that are breaking one of the two rules of mystery don't be boring and don't be repetitious. Now, you can't really help being repetitious. You can't really help being repetitious because you don't know that it was answered a couple of months ago. You can go to the LBC website where there's an archive at LBC dot co dot UK, and the only other thing that will get you excluded, or rather politely invited to move along is dullness. So if you're going to ask a question that perhaps only you would be interested in the answer to, then maybe you won't. Maybe you won't get on. If it's motoring related, you almost certainly won't. Various other circumstances in which your question might be politely rejected. But we shall see. Okay, suck it in, c. That's the only way forward. The number you need, I'll remind you of whenever I've got a phone line free. And if you hear some, there's one there. Zero. 345-606-0973 and if you hear someone ask a question to which you know the answer, you have to ring it up. When I ask you for your qualifications, don't tell me that you've got 17 a levels and a bag of gymnastics award four. The qualifications question is solely linked to the one you've just answered. So I say, what are your qualifications? And you can say, as people often do, I saw it on telly last week, James. Or as one fellow often does, I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, James. So you can go from the ridiculous right through to the sublime. Whatever your qualifications are, they interest me, because I want to know how you found out that thing that you've just shown us that you know. Shall we start? Is that it? Are we clear? Is everybody happy? Remember, judicious use of redial, I'm told, is the best way to get through when the phones are going a little bit bonkers, as they always do between twelve and one on mystery hour, but perhaps not on Thursdays. Not as bonkers as I sometimes suggest, because you can get through. Okay. Andy's in mill Hill. Andy, question or answer? Good afternoon. Question, please, James. Go on. Belly buttons. Belly buttons, we've all got them. Obviously, when you're in the womb, you have an umbilical cord which is cut when you're born. Yes. That kind of gets knotted and shrivels up to belly button. What happens on the internal part of that umbilical cord? Yeah. So it. It. Where's it attached to when you're in the womb? Do you know? No, I know it supplies nutrients and blood, maybe. I'm not quite sure. I don't know either. What a pair of ignoramuses we are, mate. It might be a stupid question. It's not a stupid question because I know exactly what you mean. You know what happens on the outside. It no longer serves any purpose. Presumably there's still tube, if that's the correct term, to use tube or cord on the inside. What happens to it? It's just a sort of cul de sac. Cul de sac? Tube taught off. Why do you want to know? What you worrying about? I was looking at a picture the other day of a belly button? Yeah. God, you're living the dream, aren't you, mate? I know, I just live it out. But, bored of the Olympics, I thought, I know what I'll do. I'll go picture. Belly button. Picture collection. Yeah, carry on. I'm not going to ask why you were looking at a picture of a belly button or whether I. Your eyes had drifted from elsewhere on the anatomy and you found yourself. Oh, okay, I'm getting it now. All right, let's park that. Let's leave that right there. And you just found yourself wondering what's going on. Where did that go? We shall find. Thank God it's the belly button you've rung on to ask about nine minutes after twelve. I forgot to tell you about the two guarantees that are normally on mystery. I've just made one come true for me. I don't know whether it did for you. You will laugh out loud at least once before 01:00. Perhaps you have done already. I just did. And you will know more by 01:00 than you do now. It may not be information that you're grateful for or can ever put to any use or even remember by tea time, but you will very briefly know more at 01:00 than you do now. Zero. 345-606-0973 Jack is in Chelsea. Oh, no. Hang on. We're going to. Who's first, Jack or Bernie? Who's been. Wait. Who's been waiting longer? Who? Bernie's first. Sorry, Jack, I'll be right with you. Bernie's in south End. Bernie. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Right, I'm assuming it doesn't affect the queen, but how far down the line are royalty allowed to vote in an election? Is it not everyone except the monarch? I don't know. That's why I'm asking. Yeah. No, I don't know either. But I think it is because it's Her Majesty's government. It's not it's not the Prince of Wales government or. But I actually know. It's a good question. I like it. Yeah. Okay. That's what I want to know. No bance here, Bernie, that's it. We're off the questions on the board. We'll try and get you an answer. If you know the answer to Bernie's question about the royals voting or to Andy's question about belly buttons. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. I'm sorry, I can't take questions. I took a question by text once, but that was because the caller, I think, was. It was to do with a disability, wasn't it? I can't remember what the disability was, but I had. It was clear that you were telling the truth and you deserve to have your question done on mystery hour. But routinely it just gets too busy. If I start including texts and tweets and emails, I don't know whether we'll find some way of changing that. But we certainly won't be changing it today. 1211 is the time. Jack's in Chelsea. Jack, question or answer? Question, please, James. All right, Jack. Um, about shellfish. Oh, yeah. So I was having a paella last week, so I was on a day in Spain. Oh, very nice. And some of the clams weren't opened. I wanted to open them and eat them and my girlfriend was going, don't do that. They're off. They're off. I want to know why they don't open there. It's actually the same. Why weren't they open? Well, first of all, I hope you heeded your girlfriend's advice, Jack. Well, I don't take her advice always. But you didn't. You didn't know when to and when not to. You didn't eat a closed clam, though, did you? You'd know about it. No, I didn't. No, I didn't. I did. Took her advice this time. Um. So why don't they open. So is it because it's a muscle that open? A muscle? The muscle is what opens it and if you're. If you're dead, your muscle won't work. Okay. So isn't it. Is that the real answer? Well, it's. No, it's just. I'm just sort of. I'm thinking out loud because if you tap. If it's open and you tap it, it closes if it's alive. So I'm thinking that it's a muscle that is responsible for opening and closing the shell. And if you're already dead, the muscle will not work, and the shell will not. But then if it was open when it. Shall, I just wait to see if someone who actually knows what they're talking about rings in Jack? I think so. I think you might be right. Was it a nice holiday? Was it? Where did you get to? I went to Spain. No, I knew that. Obviously, when you were having a piano mate. I meant which bit? I. I went to my little family place in saloon. Very nice. Was there rabbit in your. Was there rabbit in your pala or just shellfish? No, no, just fish. I'm just a fish man. I like a bit of rabbit in my paella, mate. So a little more authentico that way, I'm told. But we shall find out. We need an answer to Jack's clam question. 1213 is the time. Where's your clam? Closed. Tiara. Tiara. A lovely name in Slough. Oh, he spilt it now. Tiara, question or answer? Hello? Hello, Tiara. What's your question, Tiara? How did the first person work out how to make popcorn? It's really weird that there's a strange echo on the line here. Who's that strange man who's whispering in your ear? My dad. How did the first person make popcorn? Well, shall I tell you what happened? They'd worked out how to make bread. So they were picking corn and wheat and these things and grinding them up to make the flour or what have you, to make their tortillas or their flatbreads. And one day, it was just really, really hot. And there was a little bit of glass, or not glass, but something that magnified the sunlight. And it was shining on a popcorn kernel, and it got so hot, it just popped. So then they decided someone looked at it and thought, that looks nice. I'm going to have a little taste of that. And they thought, oh, that's delicious. This was long before they'd invented salted caramel or anything like that. So they just let it raw like that. Very nice. And then they thought, I know what we'll do. We'll make some more, and they just heated it up. So the first person to make popcorn did it accidentally, when a kernel of corn ended up getting heated by the sun to such a degree that it actually popped. Was the colonel dry? Yes, it was in the sun. Can you stop whispering in Tiara's ear, please? Dad, you're freaking me out. Am I allowed to speak, or shall I just let Tiara speak? I want you to speak now. Because I need to know whether you're going to accept this brilliant answer. I'm not going to accept it. I'm not going to accept it. James, the kernels dry as, like, a kernel that we know. It. Was it. Was it hard and dry? Yeah. Why did they make. Why did they dry out? What do you mean, dry out? You don't have to dry out. You don't have to dry it out. You don't have to. You can make popcorn from a normal piece of sweet corn. No, it's not sweet corn. What is it? It's corn. Corn. Corn. Corn. Yeah. Like wheat corn. It's corn. Not. Not. Sweet corn is not off a cob. Ah, God, I'm so glad your daughter's not here to witness your embarrassment. It's not off a sweet corn, you prune. Or is it? Actually, I'm doing that thing now. I get all condescending and superior, and it turns out I was wrong for years. Not. Not the person on the other end of the line. But it's. No, it's not not, is it? Are you asking me? I don't know, James. Well, I'm hoping someone's going to come to my rescue. It's. It's a. It's a kernel of corn. Like on an ear of corn, not a sweet corn. Okay. That's where her confusion is. It's not my confusion. It's not her confusion. What sort of a parent are you, mate? You've just embarrassed. How old is Tiara? She's eight. She's eight years old. I'm going to give Tiara a round of applause, all right? So put her back on. This is not for you. Hello, Tiara. Your daddy got a bit confused because he thought it. He thought it came from sweet corn, but it doesn't. It comes from the corn that grows and feels like an ear of corn. Do you see what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to give you a round of applause, tiara, because you've been my favorite mystery hour person so far this week. Ready? Thank you. 1216 is the time. Can you give me a heads up if it's a child coming on? Because I was a bit rude then about Slough, and I felt like a right heel when that. She then turned out to be eight years old. If I'd known that tiara was eight, I said, what a lovely name. Oh, it's in slough, that sport. It's an eight year old. You just made me bully an eight year old. You've got to be at least 18 before you get bullied by me. On LBC. It's 1216 LBC on LBC. Gosh. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Phoebe's in Victoria. Phoebe, question or answer? Hi, I've got an answer. Carry on, Phoebe. Right, so it's the umbilical cord question. The placenta's attached to the mothers. Right. We need to start again. I'm sorry. No, it's not. It's not your fault. Well, it is, actually. But I don't want you to feel bad about it. Am I too excited about it? Well, I think you might be getting close. I need you to sound a lot more excited and a lot more knowledgeable, because you're talking about stuff inside people's bodies. And at the moment, you're just sounding as if you're making it up as you go along. So let's do it again. Phoebe, question or answer? Right, it's an answer. No, no, no, no. That was even more downbeat than the first. Okay. Right. Ready? Yeah. Yes, Phoebe in Victoria. Question or answer? Phoebe, I've got an answer. Oh, yes. On the inside. So it's regarding the umbilical cord. Yes. On the inside of the mother's womb is the placenta. From that comes the umbilical cord. And then it attaches to the baby's belly button. Or what will become the baby's belly button. Yes. On the other side of the belly button. Yes. Is a vein that goes into the baby's heart. Yes. And that's called the umbilical vein. Of course it is when the baby is born that withers a little bit. Becomes part of the structure that is linked to the liver. Supports the liver in place. Yes. So it just withers. Yeah. So it's just go. I mean, it's like. Like a bit of your body you don't need anymore. So it kind of, uh. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. Uh, qualifications? Phoebe, I am seven months pregnant, and my belly button's just about to pop out. And I was googling on Tuesday to find out what happened. On Tuesday. On the other side. Yeah, Tuesday. Yeah. Sure you didn't just google it now this morning? You google. Oh, no. Well, I called up and, well, I listened. And as soon as the fellow said, I was like, this is the first time that I've definitively known an answer. Oh, that's why you sounded. That's why you sounded so nonplussed at the beginning of the conversation. You were still reeling in shock. Oh, yeah. And I went to a grammar school as well. You're going tri topical now, Phoebe. I'm not sure I can cope with the excitement. So the planet's aligned. Your own pregnancy, your Google fukling earlier in the week and mystery hour. All three of them just aligned in perfect synchronicity. And it's conspired to earn you this. You've done that thing about not being excited again. Now this is like the best day of my life. That's better. That's what we want. Thank you, Phoebe. Bar set high. Clear it if you can. 23 minutes after twelve. Suzy is in Walton on Thames. Susie, question or answer? Yes, I'd like to know what causes us to get home sick? Missing home. Well, I know, but what's the biological, you know, psychological. Even when you go away with family, sometimes after a couple of days, you get a funny tummy, don't you? You do. Well, I don't know. Is that homesickness or is that a dodgy paella? You've been eating closed clams, haven't you? Yeah, probably. I don't know that it's a mystery. Yeah. A couple of days later you might feel, you know, it's probably an adjustment, but what's the biological, physiological hormone or something? I don't know if there's an answer to them. There won't be anything. I mean, you're just missing home. And what causes that? Because you like your home. It's comfortable and familiar. Fantastic holiday. Yes. And you still get this funny? Not always, but you might get a funny even if you're with your family or your friends. You sure? Well, yeah. All right. I know I've been to the Caribbean and had a little funny tummy on a beach once. A bit grim. Hope you had a bucket. Interesting to know. So do you want a kind of cycle? Well, it won't be met. It won't be mental, I imagine. Not physical. But what explains adrenaline or might be. So you're talking about homesickness when if they said to you, right, you can wave a magic wand and go straight home, you wouldn't actually want to? Probably not. Unless it was like extreme, like young kids, maybe on a holiday first time, but, you know, you just get a. Unsettling. Yeah. And it goes away after, you know why usually. Well, it does. Well, yeah, I just would like to know if there's like a hormone that may. Okay. So is homesickness an actual sickness, either physical or mental? Yeah, you're on. Fair enough. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, thanks, susie. I'll see what I can do. So we've got home sickness I think the corn question might need to go back on the board. Shellfish. Which members of the royal family vote? Is it just the queen who can't vote? Does the prince of Wales get a vote? And we've done belly buttons. Thank goodness Ella is in Moor like. Ella. Question or answer? So just. Okay. What? It's the answer. Regarding the muscle question. There was a clam, actually, but muscles will do. It's kind of similar. Because I used to work in a restaurant a long time ago. Yes. And observed kitchen porters. See, when the mussel arrived from the fishmongers in the morning to a restaurant in a kind of. In a bag. Yes. So the kitchen porters put them in the water to see which one opens, and the one which do not open in the water, they are thrown away. Yes, I know. They are dead. Yes, I know. Why doesn't it open? Why doesn't it open? Because it's dead. Yeah, but why maybe need to get some oxygen, you know? But now you're just making it up. Yes. Yeah. See, the guy. I know that what you say is true, but the guy who asked the question wants to know why they don't open when they're dead. That's not an answer, is it? If you say, why don't they open when they're dead? And you say, because they're dead, that's clearly not an answer to his question. That's like saying, why is that wall blue? And you would say, because it's blue. All right, I'm so sorry. Okay. Just what I noticed when I was working, my work experience. I just thought that could be helpful. Making me feel bad. Are you being really helpful make you feel better? Just. I thought I need the answer. Very excited. But I know you've been very, very helpful in a. In a. In a. In a. In a very unhelpful way. Okay, well, I cannot explain the biological. What's happening in. I know, I know. Yeah. I cannot explain the biological, you know, process, when. When it's. When the body or services. There's no energy. Well, that's what I think as well, but. That's what I think. But like you, I'm just making it up. Yes. Okay. I don't know. I'm not a biology, so I cannot answer exactly as you would love to. I'm sorry. No, no, no, no. Please. You have elevated mystery hour. You have may. You have contributed in a beautiful, beautiful way to mystery out. But you're not going to get a round of applause. It's fine, it's fine. It's okay. Okay. But you're still glad you rang in? You're still glad you rang in? Yes. You're welcome. No, no, you're welcome. No, thank you. Okay. Okay. Bye. Susanna's in Stokes. Susanna, question or answer? It's an answer, and I'm afraid you humiliated yourself a little bit. Yeah. Right. Yeah. You know, let's just deal with this. Okay. Well, say sorry to that nice man with the lovely child, and then I'm gonna go on, then. All right. I suspect the sweet corn of the. The popcorn, it being the same thing. Part of the same kernel, except it's not cooked, and it's sort of fell off the corn. I have. I read a long time ago when I was in Mexico that they were put on hot stones. Yeah. They popped, released the starch, and, of course, very nice to eat. You can pop a dried kernel off a corn on the cob, but they're just different varieties of maize. Popcorn is not usually made with the kernels from a cob, is it? It is not. It's exactly the same thing. It's the little yellow. It's not. It's totally not. There is a maze that's fed to animals which is not really fit for human consumption because I think. I believe it's quite bitter. But it's just to do with the way it's grown. But that little yellow kernel is one and the same off the maze, and it makes popcorn. Or it can be cooked and put in a brine, and it becomes your tin of sweet corn. That was gorgeous. The jolly green giant told me. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, so I owe an apology to Tiara's dad. Thank goodness we didn't know his name. So you dry. You dry it out and it goes on hot stones. And someone discovered. I mean, it's not as big a mystery as who first decided to drink cow's milk, is it? It's just one of those things. No. Absolutely. Round of applause for Susanna. Thank you very much indeed. It's 12:30 and that means Rupert Bartier is here with the headlines. Three children are amongst the four people who brian on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve is the time. Just looking at that Donald Trump story now, I said to you yesterday, it's peaked. It never peaked. Now he's accused Barack Obama of founding Islamic State, assisted by Hillary Clinton. And still some people will cheer. I don't know if you're listening to. Yes. This program. It's probably worth downloading the podcast just to hear the two or three callers who rang in to defend him after he effectively called upon his followers to assassinate either Hillary Clinton or the judges she appointed. Massive backtrack. Now, I wonder what the backtrack will be on this. So he really didn't found Islamic State, Donald. Yeah, I never meant that. I never said that. I never said. It's just getting more and more surreal by the minute. And he could still win. 1234 is the time. Thank God we've got mystery out. It remind us of life's intentional absurdities as opposed to unintentional ones. And yes, I did embarrass myself on the corn question. Final word on it, though, is that although the corn you pop comes off a cob, it's a very different sort of cob from the corn that you. You routinely eat corn off. It's just different varieties of maize. All right. Amanda's in boron wood. Amanda, question or answer? Question. So I'm always confused. We buy eggs in dozen or half a dozen, but for some reason, every time you get a new fridge, the little shelf that they have for eggs, they're either eight or ten. Yeah. And I never understand. Why don't we get them if we get eggs in half? How much thought have you given this, Amanda? Well, not a lot. I just leave them rolling around in the shelf. But it's just a bit frustrating. I just don't. You're not supposed to buy new. Don't buy. How many have you got in your current fridge? How many hold gaps right now I've got five. No, no, I mean when it's empty. Oh, when it's empty. Eight. So you got eight. Well, don't buy more eggs until you're down to your last two or one. But when. When do you ever see a packet of eight eggs? No, listen to me. You start off with six eggs. Right? I can't, honestly. It's turning into some sort of charity. I can't keep going to the shop. Every time I've got a family. I buy twelve eggs. Well, then buy a bigger fridge. Actually, you shouldn't keep eggs in the fridge. It's like tomatoes. It's not actually very good for them. That was another question. Why are they outside in the supermarket? But we always insist on keeping. No, they're not very. It's just refrigerated everything. When fridges became popular and anything that goes off, we routinely presumed it was more likely to benefit from refrigeration than not. So it's a habit, but it's a bad habit. And eggs you should keep out of the fridge. The answer to your question is you don't want to have exactly the right amount of eggs and egg holders, otherwise you'd run out more. So you replace your eggs, you know, to buy new eggs when you've got down to your last one or two. Don't argue with me, Amanda. This is. You've asked me a question. Pardon? I don't understand how I'd run out more. If I'm going to use three, I'm going to use three. Whether I've got the whole. Well, then, that's just you being silly, because if you've only got a few left and you haven't bought them to replace them yet, you should do it when you're down to your last one or two and then you'll be full up to eight again. You'll never have more than more than eight. I feel like this game a bit more ridiculous than I'd expected, but I can't, I can't. I can't help. I can't help you anymore than I've done already. Seriously, it's an answer. If there are any manufacturers or fridges out there. What don't you understand? You have received the correct answer. I don't feel like it is a correct answer. That's not my fault. I'm allowed to. No, you're not. Disagree slightly. Oh, aren't I? Or I didn't realize. Oh, God, no. Heavens above. You ever listen to this show before? Of course you're not allowed to disagree with me. Exactly. My first time listening to mystery hour. Well, there you go. Now you live out you. That's two things you've learned. You've learned why you've got eight egg gaps in your fridge and that you're not allowed to disagree with me, especially not. Round of applause for me, please. Thank you, Amanda. Have a great day. Oh, that was excellent. Ross is in woking. Ross, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Hi, Joe. Hello, mate. It's the question. Uh, you get all different colors. Shampoo, hand washes. Um, when you actually use them, the bubbles are always white. Yeah, I know this. You know this, dear? Yeah. Gone before. Yeah, I have. So the question is why? Why are the bubbles always white when the soap is all different colors? Why doesn't it? Why isn't it the same color as the. You haven't checked the mist Jr archive, have you? No, I'm driving at the moment. There's no. That's, that's fine. That's fine. But it's, it's, it's to do with the thickness of the soap film and light so that. Oh, I'm not gonna get it. Oh, come on. No, I've got. It's gone. It's gone, mate. I'm gonna have to let someone else answer that. Lovely. All right, Ross. Why have you been wondering about this, sitting in the bath? Wondering. Wondering about the bubbles. That's it, yeah. All right, then, carry on. Thank you. Drive carefully, mate. 1238 is the time. Why don't bubbles reflect the colour of the soap that they come from? You can fill your boots on that one, because frankly, I should know the answer. I just can't remember. Gary's in Romford. Gary, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Gary. It's to the question about the royal family voting. Oh, yes. Yeah. They're all allowed to vote. Including the queen. No, just yet. Everybody in the line of succession. That's why convention doesn't. Because they have to remain politically neutral. Well, all of them, all the people, probably the top 20. So to be fair, that wasn't the question. Because if the queen can vote, then that's the. That's the question. You need qualifications. I've got a politics degree, so. Well, no, I haven't, actually. I've got an a level. I didn't know that. Did you learn that at college? Was that what you learned that at? Yeah, it was just one of those silly little constitutional. Well, I've got. I've got a Norman, speaking of the royal family, I've got an actual Norman on the other line. I'm just going to see what he's got to say. Norman is in hove. Norman. Question or answer? Well, the answer is, in my opinion, is that. Hang on a minute. What do you mean, in your opinion? We're dealing cold, hard facts here. Gary went to college. Yeah. Well, did he pass? Yes. Oh, good. Well, that's wonderful. Okay. The members of the House of lords are not allowed to vote in elections. And all the members of the royal family, the parts of the queen who is not, does not, does not vote and cannot vote. The rest of them are dukes and whatever, and they are members of potential members of the House of Lords, so they can't vote. Norman, you're wrong on every level. Okay, well, I've been wrong in every level before. But why did you ring in, though? I mean, this is why I got a bit wary when you said, in your opinion. I mean, I suppose you're allowed to be proud of being wrong, but it's a strange position to have adopted Gary. You're listening to this, Gary? Yeah. Could Norman be any more wrong? He could try. I was really. How could it be more wrong? There's always possibility, I don't know, that you could have been any more wrong, Norman. Well, it's a first. It's a first. I very, very, very much doubt that, my friend. Round of applause for Gary. It's true. Queen can vote if she wants, she just chooses not to. And a similar process will go on all the way down the line of succession, though they can all vote if they want to, so I guess it's up to them. Don't think there is any convention on the ones that do and the ones that don't. Nur Aden is in Greenwich. Question or answer? Noureddin. I have an answer. I like the way you said that as well. I came about it because it was quite embarrassing. I ate one. I ate a mussel, which was closed. All right, let's start. Let's start again. Let's start again. Nuruddin. Back to the muscles question. So you got food. You got food poisoning and don't describe it using the word you just described, because we had to. We had to dump that. I apologize. Which is appropriate enough that we had to dump the word that you used because it was a word associated with, well, dumping, but that's not something I want to repeat again. So you had very bad food poisoning because you ate a muscle that was closed. Why do they not. Why do they stay closed when they're dead? So. So what it is is that, uh, muscles work with actin and myosin. These are. These are terms we use in science, just in case you didn't know. Actowatto. Actin and myosin, these are two proteins which allow us to move. Muscles allow the muscle to move. And this, these muscles, these proteins work using ATP, which is adenotriphosphate, of course. ATP then turns into adenodiphosphate. ADP consumed. ADP. That's it. So when a muscle is open, you need to tap it to see if it closes. If it closes, it means still alive and you can cook it and whatnot. And if it doesn't? If it doesn't open, then you put it in water, you warm it up a bit and that should help it relax and it should open up again in the water before you boil it. And that shows you it's alive still. But if it doesn't open at all, it means it's dead. And if you eat a dead muscle, you can get food poisoning like I did. And your qualifications not not the food poisoning that you got, but your understanding of all those chemicals. Where does that come from? That's from biomedical science. So you are a biomedical scientist. Yeah. Yes. Right. Who got food. Yeah. And has a potty mouth that he can't control on live radio, mate. Which, frankly, is a disgrace. I mean, I described how I felt like. Which. Yeah, I know, but it's the school holidays and it's 1242, and you're coming on here with you. I do apologize. Words, dirty words. Well, no one else heard it except me, because I've got mark, luckily, as his wits about him, and he pressed a button to remove your foul interjection. So am I. Round of applause. Does he deserve a round? I tell you what, actually, as a punishment for your potty mouth, I'm going to have your. I'm going to have your round of applause. I'm happy. Thank you. Oh, yeah. 1243 is the time I got some finalized free, probably because people are wondering quite what they've tuned into. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And if you've got a question, I've still got time for it and I've still got time to get the answers in. Questions still in need of answers. There aren't many left. Homesickness and bubbles, that's all I've got. Anyone got anything else? Have we forgotten anything else? What is the sort of physiological or psychological explanation for homesickness? And I know that the answer is probably missing home, but Susan clearly wanted rather more than that. And why do bubbles not reflect the color of the bar of soap whence they came? If you can answer those, or you've got a question of your own, then you know what to do. Ian is in Crawley. Ian, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Ian. Yeah. I've been plagued for the first part of. Plagued, indeed. For the first part of this summer, in the willow tree, there's been a bird that's been. It's just like chirping. Morning, noon, late into the evening, continuously. That's good. Birdsong, mate. No, no, no. I love birdsong, Jack. Don't get me wrong. Where I live, I get a lot of it, but this bird is chip, chip, chip, chip, chip. Just continuously. It's a bird, not a car alarm. No. So my question is, the birds, not the birds, get sore throats, because this has been, like, weeks and weeks and weeks, just continuously. And I just thought if you were. I stood there doing that. Yeah. You'd have a sore throat. Yeah. But we haven't got a gizzard. We haven't got a gizzard. All right, there's a gizzard. Well, I don't know, but it's probably. You can't just throw random words in. Excuse me. How long have you been listening to this program? I think you'll find that 60% of my actual. It's all about the kittens, mate. You want to get yourself a gizzard, then you'd never get a sore throat. They've got stones in their throat. Birds have stones. They do. That's why you see chickens pecking the gravel. They use the stones to. Instead of, like. They aid their digestion. Yeah, yeah. That's nothing to do with talking, is it? No, but if you. If you've got stones in your gizzard, it's unlikely you're going to get sore throat, isn't it? Not knowing where the gizzard might be or where. Are you on popcorn? I was a bit lost on that as well. Do birds get sore throats? I'm just. I'm just going to put it up there and it's. We're talking about avian birds, so if you talk about the other card, you can wait until Clive Paul's medical hour. Thank you, Ian. It's 1246 from the LBC traffic. LBC. It's 1249. You're listening to mystery hour on LBC. Questions that still need answers include the psychological, or indeed physiological explanation of homesickness, the reason why bubbles do not reflect the colour of the bar of soap, whence they came. And do birds get sore throats before all of that, though, the Sunday night reminder. This Sunday night from eight on LBC. Do join Clive Bull for the travel hour. Clive's guests will be offering holiday advice and answering your travel questions. And this week's destination guide is all about China. There's more information at LBC Dot co dot UK. You can also win a long haul break to your pick of destinations, including Dubai, Hong Kong and New York. And it's all thanks to Gatwick Express, who are helping you arrive without the stress. And John Warrington's with him, I think, this Sunday. So if you remember John from his regular appearances on Steve Allen's show a few years ago, and you've missed his cheery, cheery, chappy demeanor, then there you go. You can remind yourself how lovely he is. 08:00, 1st Sunday night with Clive. 1250 is the time. Back to mystery. Tom's at Heathrow. Tom, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Tom? Hair. Yes. Certain hair on your body, for example, underneath your arms. Yes. When it gets to a certain length, it stops growing, unlike the hair on your head, which if you never cut it, it would go to the floor. How does the hair. How does the body know it's got to that certain length to stop? It doesn't. It does. It doesn't. It? Mine does. No, it doesn't. Mine does. No, it doesn't. James. It does. No, it doesn't. The hair on your armpit, or indeed your pubith legs and arms. Yes. That is on a different phase from the hair on your head. So what happens is it grows and it's all about whether it's receiving blood or not. That's the period in which it will continue growing. At the end of that period, I've got the word, it's something like anagen or collard conagen. At the end of that period, it just falls out. And all of the hairs not on your head just fall out. They don't stop growing, mate. They're constantly replenishing and recycling. And the phase for the hair on your head, that can be up to six years before it reaches its extension and drops out. I've never found a long hair in my vest. You wouldn't do because it's fallen out at full length. They're all the same now. That's why they're called short and curlies. No, I've never found one. What do you mean, you've never found one? I've never found a long hair from under my armpit, in my clothes. Well, you wouldn't. It go. Comes out in the shower, in the bath, in the swimming pool and the beach. I've never found it in my plug. Oh. You know, why is everybody arguing with me today? This is biology. I'll tell you why I'm arguing with you. Because I was shouting at the radio earlier with your corn. Yeah, all right. No, all right. No. All right, all right. Okay. That was. That was a. That was an embarrassing moment, I'm not gonna lie to you. Although I still stand by the. The fact that it's a slightly different strand of maize that is best suited to popping corn. It's the one we feed to animals, albeit that you can pop the corn that we eat ourselves. But on this one I'm right, because we've done it on mystery before. Okay, well, that's why I was shouted. That's why I'm arguing. Yeah. No, well, okay, here's something that doesn't happen very often. I think your grounds for arguing with me were pretty solid. Excellent. Thank you, James. Yeah, but I'm still right about the hair and the pubis. Well, okay, I will. I will check my underpants later. Well, flipping it, mate. Well, Sheila Fogarty just tuned in. She don't know. She doesn't know what preceded this bit of the conversation. She just walked in there at 1253 to hear a man say on the radio, yeah, I will check my underpants laid. Well, good luck, Tom. Thank you. Sorry, Sheila. Jerry's Inisha. Jerry, question or answer? Hi. Question, mate. Carry on, Jerry. Right. Olympics. Been loving the olympics? Yes. Watching the divers? Yes. Okay. One thing I'm not sure about really, really made me think. They all seem to carry around a little square of material, brightly colored, and they hold onto this thing. It's like a comfort blanket for them. It's a towel, isn't it? Well, I thought it's a towel, but they keep chucking it in the water and they take it in the jacuzzis with them. So it. It's obviously. I thought it was a town to dry themselves off. It's like a chamois. It'll be made of that special fiber that dries really quickly. It's just. It's just to get the excess water off the surface. It's not to actually dry themselves. Well, it can't dry that quick. I'm sure it must be some kind of super. What do you think it is, then, eh? What do you think it is? I don't know. I just thought it was like a comfort blanket or. They're not all going to have a comfort blanket like the kid in Charlie Brown, are they? Well, that's what I wondered. But it did seem very strange. I'll tell you what, Jerry, I'll check my underpants later. Oh, yes. Yeah, yeah. No, that was a great call, mate. No, no, I want to forget that that ever happened. Right, one very quick last one, mate. No. One thing is always, always, always made me wonder for years. Fab, thunderbirds. What does it stand for? Why are you doing this, Jerry? I said no six times. It's like being at home. I know. I'm not doing that. No, no, no, no. You can have the question about the little towel, which is, I think, a little towel, but we can find out for certain, I hope. Zack's inches. Exact. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Zack. Soap bubbles. The reason they. Sharp white, the film itself is too thick to absorb color, so the density of its true color, so it reflects in it, which is. Pardon? Too thin, too thin, yeah. Yeah. So the film on the outside collects it, reflects the color around it, which is why often you'll see a rainbow color and collectively, generally, house lights or sunlight will reflect the color white, which is the reason you get the white film and you won't. If you've got green soap, you would get a green bubble, but only if you had a green bulb in your bathroom light. Well, yes. Yeah. Yes. Yes. What? Definitely. I'll check my underpants. What, um. What are your qualifications? How do you know? This is a colleague called Graham downstairs. Why didn't Graham ring it in? Great. Great. Graham? Don't know. I don't know because I've been listening to LBC upstairs. I'm actually clearing out a parts department and I was. I was absolutely in tears from some of your earlier calls. Good. This week downstairs. And ask this question. They knew it straight away. I will play. Great. Whereabouts in chizzy are you, then? If you're working, then. We are a car dealership in Chiswick. We're a Chiswick Suzuki, wherever we were. Just off the great west road. Just off the great west road. I know it well. Just. Just near the russian. Near the russian church. If you're coming in on the a four. Absolutely. Good work. I have a round of applause. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. I was looking at that russian church yesterday. It's got a blue minaret on top of it. I wondered how long it would be before it appeared on an EDL or a Ukit website saying there's two. It's a russian orthodox christian church, but because it's got a blue dome on the top, I'm surprised. Probably already has. Stuart's in Deptford. Stuart, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on. Stuart, the diving question. It is a shabby cloth, like you said. Get in the phone lines. Not great. But. But I'm gonna. I'm gonna stick with it. They dry better when they're wet. That's why they wet them and wring them out. I used to have one to shower with when you traveler. Travelers. Like a mic. Like a microfiber, isn't it? Not quite microfiber, but shammy. Like what they dry your car with. Yes. When they dry your car. When you get washed, they're always wet because they dry better. I think you're. I think you're good for a round of applause. I'm just going to double check with Peter in Southampton. Peter, how we doing? Hi. Dead right. What are your qualifications? I'm a diver. I've been diver. For about 15 years. And I've masters world champion from 2008 as well. So what, you were. Oh, no, Stuart, I can't, mate. I'm going to give the round of applause to him because he was a world champion. Oh, you can't. But I've never had one, James. Well, I don't care. You've never had a medal either. He's got one of those, too. Yeah, well, my boy dives and you spoke to him the other week in mystery hour. Really? Yeah, with the one going through the center of the earth. Do you remember? No, I do. I liked him. Um, but when you say he dives. What was it again, Peter? World Masters brilliance. Yeah, but I've got to give a shirt back. I want to give your boy something to aim for in life. Just like you're still aiming for your mystery. Our round of applause. Your boy can aim for a medal like Peters. You see, this is a program for the aspirational. I've only known the answer to one other question before somebody else phoned up, but they got it wrong to accept their answer. Peter, you decide who gets the round of applause because you're the champion. Oh, that'll be me, surely. Oh, Stuart, that's brutal, mate. But that's how you get to the top in sport. There's no room for charity. There's no room for passengers. Peter, have a round of applause. Just homesickness and birds with sore throats. I don't know whether the existence of bird flu is relevant to this, but I suspect it isn't. So we've answered everything else, is that it? Should we do? Should we got questions? Divers? No, that'll do. Anyway, Cedar Fogarty is here. I knew the shammy one. I wanted a round of applause. Sorry. Anyway, you haven't got a medal, Peter. Peter's a lot of competition. You understood the context of why that gentleman told me he was going to be checking his underpants later? I did, yeah. Okay. That's all right. That's it from me for another day. Over to Sheila Fogart. I always do when it comes to underpants. Thanks very much indeed, James from three. One woman in a burkini, another in a skimpy bikini, both playing Olympic volleyball. Which is the more liberated after two? When you hear the word pedophile, do you think of a man? I think most of us do. But women sexually abuse children. Are we reluctant to accept that women offend in this way? Now, after the news at one? This is something I experienced firsthand in the eighties in Liverpool, the Trotskyites are back. So says Labour's Tom Watson. And he wants the high court to stop them and others having a say in the Labour party. Who are they and who should be allowed to join and influence and vote in the Labour party?