Seedless grapes?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Good grief. Is it that time already? Three minutes after twelve is the time still reeling from 30 p. Lee's latest interventions in public life. But hey ho, on we go. Mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you have a question in need of an answer, a serious question, a scientific question, a silly question or a sausage roll based question, then you get in touch with the program only via the phone call only via zero 345-606-0973 and hopefully, once it's been aired, someone else will ring in with the answer. And that way the magic lies. There is also a prize, a magnificent prize, a prize like no other. A prize of purest green. The mystery hour board game, available in an increasing array of reputable shops, but also, of course, online, but available free to you if you make my favorite contribution of the day. Full terms and conditions can be found at LBC dot co dot UK and more details about the game and indeed, your best opportunity to buy it for the person in your life that you love the most can be found at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. There is actually a link on my bio, on my Twitter profile, and my Twitter profile also provides you with some of the clips that we've been playing on the program today, including that rather splendid. I think my favourite clip today is Dominic Raab looking like Hannibal Lecter and licking his lips while he stares at Keir Starmer. If that's not the weirdest thing you've seen in a long time, then, frankly, I don't know what is. Wonderful, wonderful Copenhagen. Joel's there. Joel, question or answer? Hi, James, carry on. So, yeah, here in wonderful, wonderful Copenhagen, when you go to buy Hen's eggs, they are white, completely white, and in the UK, they're normally brown. And I can't think why that would be. It's the same in America, isn't it, really? I think they're always white in America as well. Yeah, there's a joke there about the Ku Klux Klan, but I can't quite think of it. But, like Klux, you see being klux and chickens and white. But, yeah, well, it wasn't quick, was it? Because I could see the bricks for the joke, Joel, but I couldn't actually lay them. Exactly. I couldn't get it together. I mean, it's obviously got. I mean, don't laugh, but it obviously has something to do with chickens. So the types of chickens probably are different and the egg industry in Denmark is confined to certain types of chickens. But you're going to want a more detailed answer than that. Yeah. I mean, you do get brown hens and you get white hens. You do. But is it as simple as that? I don't think it is. I don't know. We will find out. And it is. I mean, genuinely, you would struggle to come across a brown egg, would you? In the whole of Denmark, if you get the really fancy eggs and, like, you know, the supreme organic ones, they might be brown, but your standard organic ones are normally just white as well. Okay, you're on. Why? And in the UK, the opposite is true. You very rarely see a white egg actually in this country. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. It's a song that, if you're wondering the. What should we call it? The wonderful, wonderful Copenhagen. I loved Copenhagen. We went there and it was a really lovely. You know, some holidays stay with you more than others. It wasn't even a holiday, it was a busman's holiday. My wife swapped jobs with a danish journalist to compare things like childcare and the work life balance and things like that. I had such a lovely time. Let's go back. Six minutes after twelve. Paul's in Tottenham. Paul. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Paul. So if I eat an apple, I'm left with a pip? You are. I plant that pip, I get a tree, I get more apples. If I eat an orange? Same thing. Yes. We could be here a while. Let's. Let's just skip through all the other. Let's skip through all the other fruit. So, seedless grapes? I thought that was coming. Yeah, go on. Oh. How do I get seedless grapes if I've got no pip to plant? Well, you have got a pip to plant. It's just a very soft pip that you eat when you eat a seedless grape. But then. What do you mean? So the grapes. The pip, not the whole grape. But there are pips in it? Not if it's seedless. They're very small, underdeveloped seeds, so they come off the same vine. Are you ding dang sure? Nothing? I'm a 100% ding dang sure. No, I'm not. So I will put it on the, uh. I will put it on the board. Can you stop saying that? Because I don't want to make light of it. All right? Because he was lying when he said it. I know, that's why he does it? You see, because now it's somehow you've softened the edges of the lie by. And I do this as well. So it's a slightly hypocritical criticism, but he lies in ludicrous language because it somehow takes the edge off the lights. When he talked about an inverted pyramid of piffle as well, which is a felicitous phrasing, isn't it? But when he said, I'm 100% Ding dang, ding dang, ding ding dong. It's a lie. He lied about whether or not Richard Sharp at the BBC knew about his finances. We know that he lied because Richard Sharp told us that he knew about his finances. So don't say it again. So don't say it again. Sorry. Ding dang promise. Ding dang promise. It's eight minutes after twelve. Vittorio is in New Malden. Vittorio. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Last Sunday, this trust released 4000 words, infamous 4000 words to be published on the Sunday Telegram. Wasn't it wonderful? Made me think, why is it that certain daily newspapers change their name once a week? Is it perhaps because they can then claim that they actually did not publish it? No, that's not. No, it's actually a really boring answer. Is that they used to. I'm glad you have it. I do have it. And qualifications. Former newspaper journalist, son of a newspaper journalist. That's why I asked. Exactly that. And they used to be really quite independent operations. Some of them still are. But the Telegraph being a very good example of a paper that used to be the Sunday edition, used to be entirely separate from the daily edition. To the point that if my dad did a shift for the Sunday Telegraph when he was a Daily Telegraph journalist, he got paid extra money. Yes, but why is that? Why were. Because they were different papers. They were different papers, but coming from the same stable in this. Go on. But why were they required to be different papers? That is my question. What is the historical origin of that? Well, they weren't really. They weren't required to be, they just were. That Sunday papers grew up a little bit later and. Well, all right, I mean, I can only. I have an inkling that it has something to do with the Catholic Church, but I don't think so. Where does that inkling come from? Being italian and knowing that many italian newspapers have a different name on Sundays and the fact that when you say different name, you shouldn't be here working. Yeah, but when you say different name, you just mean that it's got the name of the day in the title. It's the Sunday. No, they. Gazetta dello Sport, which is the one that organizes Giro d'Italia on Sundays, is Gazetta Sportiva. Completely different thing. But that doesn't happen in this country. Well, you have Sunday Telegraph. Yeah. So that's. That's the only difference. It's the Daily Telegraph and then it's the Sunday Telegraph on Sundays. Again, it's a different name. Yeah, but not. But it's still the Telegraph. It's still the telegraph. Yeah. That's why if you go online, you. You see whatever it is under telegraph dot co dot Uk. Yeah, fine. But my question is, why initially, didn't they just have seven papers called the Daily Telegraph? Why not? Yeah, no, all right. I think. I think I understand your question. I don't understand your curiosity, but now that you've shared it with me. I do. I share it. I share your curiosity. Why did they do it? I need to. Very different package on a Sunday. You know, that's when you get all the supplements and the magazines and the competitions and the giveaways, historically. But whether that answers your question, I don't know. Oh, I'm embarrassed now. I'd have thought this was a field of expertise as a Milanese. The reference newspaper from Milan is the Corriere della Sierra. Who does that on the Monday? Well, I know it's not even on the Sunday. Well, I can't make sense of that. I can't. I mean, all I can do is. Maybe some listener can. Let's find out. Vittorio. Onwards. Onwards. Thank you, Vittorio. Dan's in Northampton. Dan, question or answer? Hi there, James. I've got a question for you. Please carry on. Whenever I buy a pair of tailored trousers. Or is this a tailoring question? Not specifically. But whenever I buy a tailored item of clothing, the pockets are always stitched together and I always tend to find that this is the case when I go to use them and suddenly scrapping around for a little item to try and pick the pocket open. Why? Exactly. So these are my two areas of expertise. Now, we've had a question about newspapers and now we've got a question about gents tailoring, which is essentially the only jobs I've ever had, apart from my brief stint as a. As a construction worker in South Yorkshire in 1988. So I don't have a question about that subject. I'm going in on this. Oh, and of course, as Francis points out, the Guardian sort of becomes the observer on a Sunday. So that would tie in with Vittorio's line of questioning. But I know the answer to this. Okay. And the answer is ironing, pressing. So after manufacture, but before being put on for sale, the garment will almost certainly be pressed so that it looks as good as possible on the rail. And if the pocket was open, then it would crumple and crease, or the likelihood of it crumpling and creasing under the pressure of the ironing would. Would be quite high. Or even the lining of the pocket could get crumpled and creased. And then, you know, if you ironed over a crumpled internal, it would get reflected on the surface of the outer cloth. Okay. I did wonder if it was something maybe snag related with machinery, but then they always seem to allow the flaps of the pockets or for something to catch on, if that was the case. No, that's right. It's that. So it is. So that you can press it without. Without it bunching up. Because it's the one area where it would bunch up because the aperture is quite small. There is a little. There is a tool I had when I was in menswear. I used to have a piece of chalk and a tape measure, which I often used to wear around my neck, like Mister Humphries on are you being served? And a little thing like, I can't even remember what it was called, but it was a bit like a toothpick, but with a curved end with quite a sharp blade. And you could just use that to sneak the pockets open for the customer because I always like to go the extra mile for my customers down in my menswear days. See, I wish. I wish someone would do that for me. Because always when I'm out and about, I first realize, and then it's always when you buy it, I've got a toothpick or something. Yeah, I mean, you can. You can do it manually if you get the right end and you can pull it through like a piece of thread. But get, ask, ask them next time you shop, just say, could you unpick the pockets for me, please? And they'll do it. That sounds like a plan. You're right. Round of applause for me. Congratulations. Thank you very much then. Thank you very much. I could still win the game, of course. That would be a interesting managerial decision and qualifications, I should say menswear expert, menswear consultant. That will tell you the story about the time I sold a white suit to John Major. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1217. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the mystery hour is underway. Questions currently in need of answers are, why don't you get any brown eggs in Denmark, give or take? How do you grow a seedless grape? And why do newspapers change their name on Sundays? Dara is in Kilmore, in Ireland. Dara, question or answer? I've got an answer for you. Carry on. It's regarding the color of the chicken eggs. Yes. Now, give you a wee bit of backstory. My pal. I moved to Ireland. In the country, my pals got loads of chickens. And I asked, like, why do they have. Some have white and some are brown eggs? And she goes, it's the color of the ears. I'm like, shut up. It's not. And she showed me the color of the ears. And if they have brown ears, they lay brown eggs. If they have white ears, I am not taking. I was like, you're pulling my leg here. I don't believe this. And then she showed me and they matched. And I was like, no way. So I looked into it more, and it is true. It is true. How did you look into it more? Talk me through your research on this issue, Dara. Well. Well, obviously, once you showed me, I was like, that's a coincidence. And then I went online to check it out. You did? And it confirmed. And they confirmed what she told me it is. So why aren't there any brown eared. That's a Van Morrison song, isn't it? Brown eared chicken. Why aren't there any brown ear. Any brown eared chickens in Denmark? I don't know. No, that's not fair. I can't ask you that question. I apologize. I withdraw that question. That's not what you rang in for. But the thing being is, if a chicken has got white ears, they will lay white eggs. If they got brown ears, they will lay brown eggs. And I've seen it for myself because she's got a range of different breeds. And I was like, I have to look into this more and apologize to her. And I was like, I'm really sorry. You're right. And she goes, I told you. I'm like, I know, but that's just mad. It's crazy. And then when I heard the question, I'm thinking they won't believe me when I phone up. Well, I kind of don't, but I do. I have to. And also, I guess it's maybe not that mysterious. Possibly, if you don't, they just have a gene pool of chickens in Denmark or America, and they're almost all got white ears, whereas for some reason here, we've got a more mixed chicken pool. It's mad. But, yeah, they do match. Thank you. Round of applause for Dara. Chickens. If you're having me on, mate, I'm going to ban you from the whole state. You know you can never listen again. Oh, no. Danger Ranger. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Stop sending me the name of the unpicker. There's various theories. I like quick unpick. I think that's what we call it. Or just an unpicker people call it as well. But don't stop. Stop sending me. And one contribution from Sarah that's gone a little further about the pockets and clothes. And the pockets are sewn quite early. They're made quite early. So it's not just the ironing that might cause distortion, but they could become distorted during construction of other parts of the jacket, like adding the sleeves or whatever it may be, not just ironing. And Sarah says, I can't ring in, sadly. So happy to clarify that. But stop sending me whatever it is you call the seam picker, the unpicker, the quick unpick, the. It doesn't matter what. I could just call it what you want. Seriously. 21 minutes after twelve and Abigail's in the new forest. Abigail. Question or answer? It's an answer. Go on. Well, it's possibly. I'm picking the previous answer. No, no, no. Don't tell me. He was right. I'm told now I'm getting lots of people texting in saying, omg, he's right. Sort of. Right. Go on. Sort of. Right. Okay, fine. But it does. Yeah. So the color of the egg is entirely down to the breed of chicken. Right. Ones that lay white eggs are leg bars or derivatives of hybrids of leg bars. Right. The reason they are the preferred colour of egg in places like Denmark and definitely also estates, is consumer preference. So consumers like buying white eggs there. And we're different in the UK and lots of other countries, we prefer brown. But there's also a commercial advantage to farming white eggs. The leg bars are smaller breed, but they still lay a really good size egg. So commercially they're more viable, they eat less. But the lobe, because you can't see chicken's ears, but you can see their lobes are clearly visible. Yeah. And that's the color that the previous caller was talking about. But it's a bit. It's a bit chicken and egg, if you pardon the pun, then. So that the colour of the ear and the colour of the egg correlate. Yes. But it's not the reason why. But not causation. No, but it's also not entirely true. So lead bars do indeed have white lobes, generally. But then you have things like olive eggers that produce green olive coloured eggs. Yes. And they definitely don't have green lobes. And you can also get blue eggs, you can get almost black eggs, you can get all sorts and it's not always the color of. So, actually, we looked. We looked at this. So Dara's not losing his round of applause. You're going to get a new one of your own. But we looked at it in a way through the wrong end of the telescope. Why can you only buy white eggs in Denmark? Because that's what danish people want. Exactly. And then, therefore you get the kind of chickens that lay the white eggs, which, lo and behold, will often have. Almost always have white lobes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Love it. Round of. Oh, qualifications. I breed rare breed hens and I've collected all the breeds that lay all the different coloured eggs. Gosh. All in one spot. Yes. And do they not. Do they not breed with each other? I mean, are you not creating new breeds of. Yeah, you can, but no, I keep them all pure. So we keep all the different pure breeds. Yeah. Lovely stuff. Round of applause for Abigail, please. Thank you. 23 minutes after twelve. Dara can't win the board game, can he? Because he rang from Ireland. He was in Ireland. He can't do it, can't send it overseas. Terms and conditions, mate. I told you, over lBc dot co dot UK. Matt's in Sheffield. Matt, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Matt. So when did we first conceive of ghosts as essentially being a sheet with eyes? And can we trace it back to the first time that image was used? Well, that's a great question. No, that really is. So you don't mean the first incidence of ghosts in folklore, but the first depiction of a ghost is the one that we're all familiar with from our. From our childhood. Really? Yeah. I don't know whether you can trace it back to comics or to cartoons, but even if you think of something like Casper, they're kind of sheet light, but they're still in kind of human form. Yeah, they are. I wonder if it was originally invisible and therefore the sheet was the only way you would know it was there. Do you see what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But you'd still want to know the first time that it happened. You would. Yeah. And if there's just a creator that kind of created it and then it's kind of spun off from there. The first one might be Dick. I mean, who knows. Could be Dickens. But Dickens's ghosts didn't really come in sheets, did they? They came in chains. Yeah. Yeah. And I know there's drawings, I think. Well, that'll be it. It'll be. So there will be some sort of. Because it was. There's a really good example of this and I can't remember what it was about. Some. Maybe. Maybe father. No, it wasn't Father Christmas. Maybe it was Father Christmas, but it just was part of an advertising campaign and it just became part of common parlor. Anyway, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on. I see what I can do. All right, thank you, Matt. First recorded or first known depiction of a ghost as essentially being a sheet, a mobile sheet. Any thoughts? You know the number. Shaun's in Leicester. Sean, question or answer? Answer. To do with the grapes. So, with the seedless grapes, the way they propagate them is by cuttings. So you can clone plants by cutting bits off, like, the stem off of them and the stem cells can root. But the reason why you would do cuttings or graftings for seedless grapes isn't because they don't have seeds, but it's about the grape you're producing. So if you were to just propagate by seed, that seed is formed when a flower becomes pollinated, but you don't know what plant it's being pollinated from. So it could be a random grape that you don't have control over mixing with the grape that you're trying to grow. And then. So that seed that gets formed is a mix between two varieties of grape. And you want to be only growing one variety of grape, let's say. So, to control what variety you're growing, you would want to clone your plants. So it's actually not got to do with the seedlessness of the grape, but with just the control of the variety you're growing. I'm not quite clear, and I'm sure it's my fault, not yours, because. Original. Where did the original seedless grape come from? Oh, is that. I wouldn't know. Do you see what I mean? Is that an important question or not? I don't think so. Because you can clone any plants. Sorry. Yeah, but I'm cloning a seedless grape plant, aren't I? But I'm cloning it from. From. From an original. Where did that come from? Because that wasn't cloned, the first one. I would guess that they'd be developed to become seedless by. By. By selective. Or it happened and they just decided, wow, this is a good one. We better clone this. It's got no seeds. That'll go really well in the supermarket. Yeah, possibly genetic modification. Like man made genetic modification? That would be my educated guess. But I don't really know too much about the story behind the scene. Qualification propagates garden as a hobby. Yeah. No, okay. I mean, that is almost certainly right in the terms of where does this one come from? It comes from a cloned plant. Don't you think? Keith looks. Keith looking skeptical. Sean, I've got to tell you, mate, you've roused Keith's skepticism. I think he's going to give you probably a truncated round of applause. Oh, dear. It's better than nothing. Definitely, definitely. I'm happy to get any sapling. It was a sapling round of applause. It was certainly no mighty oak. Thank you, Sean. So I think there's room for another one on that. Probably Sunday newspapers. I don't know what Vittorio wants. The answer is to why have they got different names? Because they were different papers. But then why didn't they just have completely different names? Well, because you're trying to get the readership from the earlier in the week. But the Sunday Telegraph used to be an entirely different operation from the sun, from the Daily Telegraph. Sunday Times still is, but nowhere near as distinct as it used to be. And the paper goes to a seven day operation. It's a big deal. The unions, for a start, are unhappy about it. The express did it. Well, I worked on it. I don't know that I've under. Either I've not understood the question or Vittorio is after something that. Something that I don't fully get. It's coming up to 12:30 you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Tim Humphreys here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1233. Mystery hour is underway. Questions still in. Well, I told you just before the news what questions were still in need of answers. I'm not going to tell you again. If you know the answers, give me a call. If you've got a question of your own that you'd like to add to the list, um, the number you need is zero 345-606-0973 Michael is in Wokingham. Michael, question or answer? A question, if I may, is probably another boring one that you can answer this afternoon. James. Go on. There's another area of expertise. Is it schools? I'm afraid public schools I hope, correct. Yes, actually. Yeah. But why is a public school essentially a private school? Ah. I went to a comprehensive and I'm a victim of that education establishment, though. I've done okay and I've got friends who went to Wellington College, but they refer to that as a public school and yet they have to pay. And it's very much a private school. Is it boring? No, it's complicated and I know it and I'm only one for two on my supposed areas of expertise, so I need to go two for three. What you would have. I mean, it starts with the idea that there were not everybody went to school, but if a school grew up, right, and it was really good, then people would start sending their children. So it wouldn't just be your local school. So it's not the most literal and obvious definition of public, but you have to understand it as being the opposite of local. Understood. So, yeah. You remember the sketches on a local shop for local people? What was that on league of gentlemen? A local shop. So if you think of local in that context, it's a local school for local people. And then when they started taking boarders, often who'd stay at the school, that they became known as public schools. Thank you. Because it was not just for local people. I get it. That's all right. I could have googled that, but there you go. But I do want to. That'd be boring. Well, I hope I'm right. I mean, but I'm pretty sure I am, actually, because I think we've. I think we've had it before. And also it is. It is a bit of a mystery. And also, I mean, by public, you mean open to all of the public that. But you wouldn't necessarily think that it's just the way that we use the word public these days. And private, of course, meaning that you can only go there if you're paying the fees. Understood. There it is. Round of applause for me. Doing well today. Thank you, sir. No, thank you. I could easily win the board game if we carry on at this rate. George is in Virginia water. George, question or answer, James? Answer to the question about grapes. Marvelous. I work for vineyard and I studied viticulture at London College. And basically humans have been growing grapes for over 8000 years. And once a particular type of grape has a property that people really like, you take a cutting which is grafted onto a rootstock and the cutting is an identical twin of a previous. Well, identical twin of the mother plant. For example, you have red wine grapes, white wine grapes and at some point over the last 8000 years, a grape plant somewhere in the world produced grapes. No seeds. So people like that. So they take cuttings from that plant, graft them on and you have grapes, a grapevine that produces seedless grapes and when that one gets old, you take another cutting and so on. Add infinitum. Fantastic. So the last guy was partially right, but it's basically most variety of grapes for table grapes or wine are identical twins of. Well, they're clones of their parent and you keep that going. I love it. So between. I mean, you've nailed it all. If you'd gone on first, you'd have got all of the glory. But between the two of us, me and Sean kind of got it right. But you've confirmed that. So it begins with that anomaly. It begins with that evolutionary freak of the seedless grape and then the punter thinking, the farmer think, the vintner thinking, blimey, I won't be making much wine out of this one, but it's going to be great for eating. I better get a few more of these on the go. And the next thing you know, the seedless grapes are everywhere. Exactly. However, for example, for red grapes, yes. If you want to make. The red grape is original because the grape changes color to indicate to a bird, yes. Eat needs, leave and plant a seed somewhere else. White grape is a mutation. So to make white wine, most of the time you want to have white bread. However, one last thing before I go. You can make white wine from most red breads because it's the skin that's red, because the skin's red. So if you press gently and get rid of the skins, well, press a red grate gently, you'll usually get. Where is the vineyard in which you ply your trade? I work at Albury Vineyard and Surrey Hills. Gosh, there's more and more of them, isn't there? I had a beautiful bottle from Norfolk. My mother in law got it for me for my birthday. It was. It was really nice, tidy. Sort of just getting better and better all the time, isn't it? It's the fastest growing industry in the country. Is it really? Indeed. Are you sure about that? Well, one better vineyard. However, very briefly. Since 2000, the area of land under vine in England and world has gone from 850 over 5000 today. Fantastic. In 22 years, a growth area. Goodness knows we need them. Unless, I mean, obviously I'm a fully paid up member of the anti growth coalition but I'm prepared to make an exception when it comes to vineyards and it's earned Georgia ranch of applause 1239 is the time ray's in. Pearly Ray. Question or answer? Question, please carry on. Ray, how do we get vitamin D from the sun, which is just essentially a ball of fire in the sky? Yeah, I know this. Can I do another one, or is it getting annoying? What do you think? Can I answer this? Do you mind if I answer this? No, not at all. So it is just the big ball of fire in the sky. But what you got to remember is there are. There are. I mean, appropriately enough, Ray. There are rays. Rays coming out. Coming out of the sun. In this case, ultraviolet rays. All right? I bet that was your nickname at school, wasn't it? Razor laugh. I used to say razor love. I like that. So you've got something in your skin. I can't remember what it is. It ends with the word cholesterol. It's one long word. Some la bi dabi dabi da. Cholesterol in your skin. The ultraviolet rays are absorbed by this stuff in your skin. And it changes them. So it's a chemical reaction. And it changes them into something that then becomes vitamin D. So the ultraviolet rays have a chemical reaction with something that's already present with you in your skin. And that then turns it into vitamin D. Right, okay. Thank you very much. That's all right. That, isn't it? Round of applause for me. Thank you. Thank you. Ultraviolet. Exactly that. An ultraviolet ray on the line there. Well played. 1240 is the time. James is in Sutton. No, Neil's in Dublin. Neil, question or answer? Hi, James. It's Mel. It's a question, Nell. Sorry, man. Yeah, no problem. Is the world getting bigger, James? What makes you think it might be? Well, when we use expandable foam, say, on building sites and that. Yeah? It comes in a small can. But then when we press it and use it, it expands to a larger amount of matter. It does. So is man adding to the size of the world? Is it getting bigger? No. Okay. Because everything is in a state of constant. So that the actual raw materials are. Everything is the same. I need to explain this a bit better. Why would it be getting bigger? Because we make so much stuff. Yeah, but what are we making it out of? Well, we're making it out of materials. But sometimes those materials are materials that will expand. Yeah, but what are they? They're expanding because they're full of something else which already existed. But in the case of the expandable foam. Yeah. Okay, well, let's use a balloon instead. So I give you a flaccid balloon. Okay. Yeah. And now I ask you to blow up that balloon. Is there more or less air in the world than there was before you blew up that balloon? Um, there's the same amount exactly. But you've got this whopping great balloon. How can that be? That's bigger than it was before. It's bigger than it was before, just like the foam. But then we've got more human beings. We add more human beings. So the world is getting bigger because there's more physical human beings, but it's not. I mean, partly because some die, although there's loads more human beings now than there was, like, a thousand years ago. But they, too are balloons, okay? But they too are. They are made of stuff that already existed somehow. Yes, they are, actually. They are. So you're back yet you're back to nourishment and nutrition? We're converting. We're converting chemicals into different things. In this case, humans. The chemicals already existed. Okay, so the planet is not getting heavier or bigger? No, it's exactly the same. Okay. Much appreciated. Thank you very much. Are you accepting that, Nell? Say what again? Are you accepting that, um. No. What, politely? Wow. I'm taking a round of applause for it. This is like the good old days. Now, I used to answer every question. I don't know what's come over me today. Joe's in Cambridge. Joe, question or answer? Hello. It's a question. Please. Carry on, Joe. So, on a trumpet, right. I'm not answering this one. I can be fairly confident of that. Carry on. On a trumpet, you have three valves. Yes. And there's eight different combinations in which you can press the valves, right? So you can either not press them at all. You can do one of each, two of each, or all three. If that's the case, how can you get more than eight notes out of a trumpet? Could it be how you blow into it? Potentially, but I'm sort of questioning the physics of it. It's definitely only eight. Eight combinations. There's eight combinations that you can do, but there's nothing. There's not like a recorder. There's not another one underneath where you put your thumb or something like that? Like, you can open up a little bit. Another little one underneath? Not that I know of. I don't think so. Do you play the trumpet? No. Okay. Yeah. How many notes can you get? I don't know. I know it can do more than one octave. I've got to be honest with you, Joe. I'm curious about your curiosity. You don't play the trumpet. You don't know much about the trumpet. And yet you're intrigued by a mathematical conundrum at the heart of the trumpet. Yeah. It was actually a discussion we had in the pub the other evening. I like it. I like it. I did want to find out. No. So you've got. Now, that's definitely true. If you've got three buttons, there's only eight combinations that you can have. Up, down, down, up, up, down. I won't do all of. Yeah, but you can do. There's only one way you can do zero. There's three ways you can do one, three ways you can do two, and one way you can do all three, which adds up to eight. Yeah. All right, I'll find out for you. All right, thank you. I like it a lot. Now I'm really intrigued. But again, like you, I'm taking it on. Trust that that's how a trumpet works. 1245 is the time. Come on, answer the trumpet question. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's 1249. Why? When was a ghost first depicted as being a sort of person in a sheet? A dead person in a sheet. Where does that come from? I think I know that now, but I didn't know it when Matt rang in, so I can't do that. I've done the vitamin D. And of course, we forgot about meteorites when we were talking to Nell. There's no one coming on to do that, is there? But obviously, a meteorite can add slightly to the mass, to the overall, but not much. But it does happen, so I just put that in as a qualification. How do you get more than eight notes out of a trumpet? The ghost question and the Sunday papers question. Why did papers change their name on Sundays? James is in Sutton Caulfield. James, question or answer? That was my tummy. Did you hear that? Oh, how embarrassing. James, question or answer? It's an answer. What were you doing? Yeah, it's regarding the public school. Oh, he's. His phone line. It's his phone line. I don't. Or he's got the radio on in the background. It's not his fault, or it might be, but anyway, Graham's in Rochester. Graham, question or answer? Hi, James. Got an answer? Carry on, mate. It's about the trumpet. Yes. I played the trombone and the two instruments work pretty much in the same way, so they're basically just a tube. Yeah. And with. Even without putting any valves down or without moving my trombone slide, you can. Series of notes just by tightening and loosening your lips. So that is it. You just change the sort of aperture and that changes the note slightly with your lips. Now, if you can make the sound of a zip, you can't buzz your lips. Make a kind of farting noise, sort of, but tighter. Tighter. That's the idea. Okay. And you can get a whole series of notes. Come on. Hang on a minute, Keith, we must change this mic muff before Sheila gets here. All right? Just. Yeah, carry on, mate. So you can get a whole series of notes that way. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Trombone bigger. The whole lower series of notes. Have you got an instrument to hand? I have got my trombone with me. Marvelous. Gone. So with the slide all the way in. All that. All that. Just with changing your lips? Yeah, just from the lips, yeah. Blimey. And then if I move my slide out one position, I'm basically making the trombone a bit longer. Yeah. So the whole series of notes goes lower. That's it. That's beautiful. It's just exactly the same, but not if higher. And instead of the slide, you're using the valves to change the position. A small amount of tubing has a slightly long bit of tubing. Then the third bell's got the longest bit of tubing and then the combinations of those act in the same way as the trombone. So you've got seven sets of harmonics to play with. Absolutely brilliant answer. Thank you very much. Round of applause for Graham and another for the trombone, please, Keith. Well done. Now do it again, but one octave lower. Stop it, stop it. Thank you, Graeme. Take care. James is in southern Caulfield. Let's try again. Question or answer, James? Answer. Carry on. Yeah, so my understanding of the public schools is that they're originally for the wealthy aristocracy. They were originally for poor people. Originally. Originally public schools? Yeah. As in the ones eaten win. Okay, I totally misunderstood. But then, because they were providing a good education, the sons of the wealth, the wealthy, started wanting to send their kids there as well. Ah, okay. So I've missed a sort of step in the evolutionary. That doesn't necessarily mean that your answer is wrong. So, yeah, I was just going to say that. So when I think it was the public Schools act of 18, something came into play. Those specific. I think there's about seven or eight schools specifically were designated as public schools. Yeah. Which is why private schools. Now, not all of them are known as public schools. It's only the Eaton's, the Westminster's, the Harrows. A few more than that is because there's seven on that. It's. It was something to do with Lord Clarendon and it would. Charter House, Eaton, Harrow, Shrewsbury, Winchester, Westminster and rugby, I reckon. Yeah. Yeah. Does that sound like. But now I went to Ampleforth. No one disputes that ampleforth is a public school. Malvern College is a. There's lots now, but not all of them. You're right. Not all private schools are public schools. And that. And it meant that part of the act was that it was going to be regulated by government, I guess, and that if they were no longer just. It was formalizing the process by which they'd moved from being places where clever poor children got educated, largely by clergy, into places where wealthy parents were sending their children in return for money to get an education. And so it was about regulation. Ah, right. Yeah. Okay. What are your qualifications? I used to be a teacher and I just remember reading this at some point when I was about to go teach at a private school. I think between the two of us, we've. Between the two of us, we've nailed it. But you can have the round of applause because I've got loads today. Thank you. Thank you. Ella's in glastonbury. Glastonbury. Glastonbury. Let's call the whole thing off. Question or answer, ella? It's an answer, James. Just clarifying a few things you mentioned earlier about vitamin D production and the sun, so essentially you were kind of halfway there. Well, I hadn't. I didn't. The bit I missed out was the bit that the something something cholesterol endogenously reacts with the ultraviolet rays and turns into something which then turns into vitamin D. That's the bit. I didn't think that ray needed the issue confusing. So I may have missed it out, but it may have been on purpose. Well, we never know, do we? But essentially, it's mostly. Vitamin D is, as you rightly said, there's lots of steps in its synthesis, but it is mostly made in the epidermis, which is in the top layer of the skin. And that's because uvb radiation from the sun can penetrate those layers of the skin. What happens is the energy, the particular wavelength that comes from that uvb helps to catalyze protein called seven dhc, which converts. And the DHC is cholesterol d something. Something. Cholesterol, yes. So I also said that. Not that I'm being defensive in any way, shape or form, Ella. No, it's. Honestly, I think it's poorly understood, I think, in terms of public knowledge. So that's it. So now we've got. We've got the dhc absorbing the uvb and that gets converted into d three. So that's an active form, as in a pre vitamin? Yes. No, so, yes, you're correct. Sorry. I think. And it circulates in the body and it's processed by the kidneys, which convert it then into the bioavailable form, which our body needs, which we use, which is vitamin d five, dihydroxychola calciferol or vitamin d three. Very interesting, actually, because it's directly linked to melanin in the skin and skin color. Yes. And so figures around the world constantly state that people who are of african american descent or have dark skin have about 10% the prevalence of skin cancer that are a caucasian person of the same lifestyle. And that is because melanin forms a cap over the DNA in the cells in your skin and it shields that from sunlight. And so you might be sitting there asking yourself, well, hang on a minute, but we need that sunlight for vitamin D. Well, the NHS guidelines at the moment are currently about ten to 15 minutes of sunlight on your exposed face and arms per day. And I'm gonna have to stop you now. I sense that we're gonna be here all day if I don't. Yeah, yeah. Is that no qualification? Do it in a sentence because you've already squeezed Louis and Putney into oblivion. Apologies. Apologies. If you have darker skin, you need more sunlight. You still need. Okay, here's for a bonus point. What is the verb that describes the. The transformation of the pre vitamin into the vitamin? Do you know that? What do you. There's a word for it. The chemical process. I know it. What we're talking about. As in sunlight. Convert. No, no further. Pre vitamin into the. Into the. Into the vitamin, as it were. Oh, God, no. My biochemistry. I summarized. I had no idea. It's been. I summarized. Round of applause. Qualifications? Medical student and natural redhead. But there you go. So, particularly interested in Melanie. Thank you. That's it. I'm giving the award to the Graham, the trombone man. I mean, that was a late bid from the end there, but I'm giving it to because that was great. You come with a trombone mate, you've set the bar pretty high. You can have to get up early to beat Graham. So Graham wins the ball game. That's it from me for another day. Don't forget to download global player, if you haven't already. You can listen to all your wonderful LBC shows there and an array of the world's most exciting podcasts. But also remember, go to LBC Co. UK, click on the speak to Siddiq icon and put your question to the mayor of London who will be here at 10:00 tomorrow. That's it from me for now. Tom Sawbrick with you at four, Sheila Fogarty with you now.