When do your arms stop growing?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It'd be a good reality television show. I was just thinking, sending a bunch of Brexiters to go and pick fruit and vegetable crops in the fields of Great Britain while high fiving each other about the abolition of freedom of movement. If you're listening Channel five, you can have that one for nothing time now for much lighter fare. It is Thursday. It is shortly after twelve noon. It is therefore mystery out. Epic acts of God notwithstanding, this should see us through till fogarty time. The way it works is this. Get the kids as well. You can turn the radio back on. What a stupid thing to say. If you currently got the radio off and I sit here and say, you can turn it on now. Reminds me of the time. Did I ever tell you this? It reminds me of the time when I was nanoseconds away from suggesting live on air, that we should have a phone in about people who live without phones, and that if you don't have a phone, you should call me on zero 345-606-0973 and tell me via your phone what it's like not to have a phone. Thankfully, I never did that, although I did just suggest to people who've currently got their radios off that they can now turn them back on again. What I meant to say was, if you've been keeping the children out of the room room, because the coronavirus diet is relatively dismal and dispiriting, then you can usher them back in again. If you're enjoying the piece, leave them. Don't, don't, don't, you know, don't do anything you don't need to do. But if you feel they might enjoy mystery air, quite a few people adding it to their home schooling schedules, then go and get them now, get the youngsters now and even perhaps get them involved. Although I can't take any calls to air from miners unless they have, unless we can establish that they've got their parents permission. The way it works is this. Someone rings in with a question. It might be silly, it might be deadly serious, it might be scientific, or it might be utterly spurious. The point is that somebody else listening to the program will know the answer and they will then ring in with the answer what they're not allowed to do, what you're not allowed to do yet. You, yes, you. What you're not allowed to do is look anything up. It would make an entire mockery of mistrial. Mister Eow was conceived. I can almost remember. Mystery Hour was conceived as a celebration of knowledge. It was a sort of recognition that the younger generation, although unlike the last fella on the line, I don't resent the fact that life is a little bit easier now than it was when we had rationing and rickets. But the younger generation don't have to worry about the stuff we had to worry about. They don't have to remember stuff, do they? I mean, you can take your calculator into your maths exam and you can google when you're doing your homework, pretty much everything under the sun, we know that. But we still like whatever our age may be. We still like education, illumination, elucidation, knowledge. It's good to know stuff, even if the facts are at your fingertips. It's even better to have them rattling around in your noggin. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. The number you need to join in is zero. 345-606-0973 if you hear somebody ask a question to which you know the answer, then get in touch. And if I am impressed by your credentials, which could be as shallow as having heard the relevant information on television last night, or you might have a PhD or be a professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, although he, of course, is currently very busy making hand sanitizer. Seven after twelve. Let's go to tooting, Jacob. Is there, Jacob, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Jacob. How does Stripey toothpaste get in its tube and keep stripy when it comes out? How does Stripey toothpaste get in its tube and stay stripy when it comes out? I love that question. How old are you, Jacob? Eleven. Yeah. Eleven years old. And have you brushed your teeth today? Yes. Was the toothpaste stripey? Yes. Do you know what that's called? No. Research, Jacob. Research. And you've done your research, which is why the question gets on the board. If anybody can answer that, you know what to do. Mind how you go, Jacob. Thank you for the call. How does Stripey toothpaste get its stripes? Polly's in Watford. Polly, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on, Polly. If two bees from different hives land on the same flower, do they fight over the pollen? Now, I just asked Jacob if he'd done his research about his question regarding stripey toothpaste. So I have to ask you whether or not you've spent much time in the garden looking for a bee fight. I've spent time in the garden, but I haven't been looking for bees fighting. You haven't stumbled across any bees having a bit of a scrap over a tulip? No. So we need to know from a botanist or a scientist whether or not two bees, they might even be from the same hive. Although normally they'd work together quite well. What do bees fight over? Pollen. Yeah. I love that question. I shall try and find out for you. How old are you, Polly? I'm ten. How are you finding the lockdown, good and bad? Well, I can't say fairer than that, Polly. You covered every. Every possible acre of ground available, so we need to know about stripey toothpaste and whether bees fight over Pollen. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need to answer those questions, or indeed to ask your own. Lily is in Wimbledon. Lily, question or answer? Question? Hi, Lily. What's your question? Hello. My question is, can you see cold blooded animals through infrared cameras? What would be an example of a cold blooded animal? Can we think of one? So reptiles are cold blooded, aren't they? Lizards and snakes, lizard or something. And it because infrared cameras, we think, pick up heat. Would they pick up cold blooded animals? That's a really good question. I like it. How old are you, Lily? Nine. You're nine. Do you know my first caller today, Jacob, was eleven. My second caller, Polly, was ten. My third caller, Lily, is nine. If this follows a pattern, Lily, how old is my next caller going to be? Eight. God, you're good. Yeah. I can't believe you couldn't work out the infrared camera question self. But I shall try. I shall try and get you an answer for it. Thank you, Lily. That's a really lovely question. We're being spoiled today. We've got loads of brilliant questions. Serena is in golf soak. Serena, question or answer? Question. How old are you, Serena? Seven. Oh, when are you? 814 January next year. That's. That's the day after my birthday. Did you know that? No. How spooky is that? I sense I'm a lot more interested in that statistic than you are. What is your question, Serena? What is the first board game ever made? Oh, the very first board game. That's a great question. What's your favourite labyrinth? Labyrinth? Yeah. I don't think I know that one. I shall try to find out for you, Serena, that's a brilliant question. Actually, one of the best we've ever had. All the questions today have been first class. How does toothpaste get its stripes? Do bees fight over pollen? Do infrared cameras pick up cold blooded animals? And what was the first ever board game. Time for a couple more questions. Ann is in Barnes, and. Question or answer? It's a question, James. And how old are you, Annie? Well, I wish I could say I was nine, but I'm a wee bit older than that, I'm afraid. You and me both. What's your question? Well, my question is, quite simply, why do tins of food have ridges in them? And bearing in mind we're in lockdown, buying lots of pins, things like tins of ravioli, tins of soup, tins of sort of thickish liquid in them, and it infuriating. You pour the tin into the saucepan and you. Can you get the other bits out there? No, they're all stuck in the ridges. And I'm. Yes, I hadn't. I hadn't thought of that. And I just. And then it gets stuck in the rim and you just can't deal with it. It's such a. It's just such a waste of. And I just can't see why. It seems like a design fault. It seems like a design fault when it comes to emptying the tin. I suspect the answer is going to involve some sort of structural engineering. But I'm not going to move into the realm realms of speculation myself, because it doesn't seem to be that it would take up less space on a shelf or anything, because they're kind of round on the. It might be more strong. It might give it a rigidity. If you, um. If you've got a freshly boiled. I mean, usually I just. If I'm doing tinned tomatoes, for example, for a pasta sauce, I. I do get irritated by what you described. But a quick rinse with a tiny little bit of boiling water, and you can just pour that straight into the pan. Ah, exactly. If you really worry. Or a bit of milk. Well, there you go. Yes. And it doesn't get. Oh, I appreciate you still. Yes, yes. You've still got some detritus in the rim. I shall try and find you an answer, not to your empty ink problems, but at least to the question of why the ridges exist. Thank you, Annie, who just, I think, increased the average age of cause to this week's mystery, about 200%. So how does toothpaste get its stripes? Do bees have a fight over pollen? Do infrared cameras detect cold blooded animals? What was the first ever board game? Do you know? I can't wait to find out the answer to that. I got a feeling. But feelings are no use in the marketplace of facts. That is mystery. And why do tin cans have ridges when it makes getting the contents of the tin cans completely out of the tin cans almost impossible. It's coming up to 12:15. You're listening to mystery hour with me, James O'Brien, on LBC. This is LBC Mystery Hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero, three, four, five six zero, six zero, nine seven, three twelve. Sixteen is the time and you are listening to a special edition of Mystery Hour, which is confined largely to younger listeners like Jacob, Polly, Lily and Serena. Lots of great questions. I'll remind you of them as and when I get the opportunity to do so. But remember, if you know the answers to any of the questions that we've already asked, I would love you to ring in and share them. So we've got stripey toothpaste, bees fighting over pollen, infrared cameras and cold blooded animals. The very first board game. And why tin cans are ridged, given that the ridged ridges make getting the grub out of the can much harder than it would otherwise be. 17 after twelve is the time and Hannah is in Croydon. Hannah, question or answer? Question. Carry on. What is it? A question. Okay. If you just get your mum or your dad to turn the radio off, Hannah, and I'll come back to you in 1 minute. All right, my love. Don't, don't. Don't worry. I'll definitely be coming back to you. But we can't have the radio echoing in the background. It's not your fault. It's all your daddy's fault or your mummy's fault or whoever's looking after you today. Summer is in Enfield. Summer. Question or answer a question. Carry on. Who decided to think of a 24 hours clock as in, why 24 hours divided into 60 and 60 and not 30 hours or 50 hours divided into ten and 100? Who would think to say that when it's after twelve, like 01:00 in the afternoon? Who thought that it could be 1300 hours? I think the 24 hours clock came before the twelve hour clock. Did I just. I just want to be sure that I understand your question. Go on. So if after twelve, if it was. Because if one in the morning is 100 and then. Yes, if it's one in the afternoon, it's 130 o. Yes. So whose idea was that? Whose idea was that to do the. Don't know. I was. I was just wondering. That's a question. No, I know you are. I'm trying to. I'm just trying to repeat your question back to you. I wasn't expecting you to answer it. I shall do. How old are you? Summer. I'm eleven. 1012. Fantastic. Right. I shall try and get you an answer. All right? I promise you. Where does the 24 hours clock come from? I think that's probably the neatest summation of the question. Let's go back to Hannah now, who is in Croydon? Hannah, you were about to ask me a question. What was it? Do scars grow as you get older? So as a star gets older, does it get bigger? The stars grow as you get older, yeah. Okay. It's on the board. Do stars grow as they get older like eight year olds do, Hannah? I mean, we know that when you're nine, you're going to be bigger than you are now. So I understand that question. Stars expand as they get older. It's a brilliant question, actually, and it will demand a degree of astronomy, if not a degree in astronomy, to satisfactorily answer it. We might need grown ups to ring in to provide the answers. I'm not generalizing or casting any aspersions upon the knowledge levels of my younger listeners, of whom I've clearly got more than usual, but I do need to get some answers on the board as well. Phil is in broccoli. Phil, question or answer? It's an answer. James, I thought you might be of a slightly older vintage, Phil, because you don't meet many nine year olds called Phil these days. No, that's true. I don't know why that is. No, I thought we'd banter for a bit first, because. All right, okay, mate. Yeah, no worries. Just because I was just missing adult company, Phil, over the first few minutes of mystery out this week, which one are you going to answer? Which one are you going to answer? The bee question. I don't know if you recall, we've spoken before about bees, because I'm a full time beekeeper. You are a beekeeper? Yes. Yes, I am. And the answer is no, they don't. All bees are actually docile away from the hives or from their nests. The reason people sometimes get stung by them is usually accidental because they slapped them, sat on them or something like that. Unlike wasps, bees are docile away from their hive or nest. And usually if you watch them, you'll get a bee come to land on a flower, and if it sees another bee there, or it senses a bee there, it moves on. It's not interesting trying to fight for that tiny space when there's a flower next to it. If Polly was here, because Polly is very clever, that was clear from her call, she would probably say something like, what if you had five really hungry bees and only one flower left in the whole world, then what would happen? Highly unlikely. They would fight over it because it's just not in their nature. Well, you think they'd form an orderly queue? No, I think the first one that was on it, the others would move on and go looking and they wouldn't be able to establish that this was the only flower left in the whole wide world until it was too late and they were too far away from it to come back and even start if they wanted to, which they probably wouldn't want to, due to their placid, bee like nature. Yeah. They wouldn't even realize they're just. I mean, bees would literally fly and keep flying and keep flying until they actually give up and die. They only live for that. It's a perfect answer for Polly. It's a great question, actually, wasn't it? I thought it was. It was very good, sir. Absolutely super. Is the lockdown affecting your beekeeping in any way? No, we're allowed under death for to look after the bees because the class is livestock. Fantastic fantasy. Will it affect the honey with there being less pollution in the air and things like that? Well, that's a pretty good question, James, to be honest. That's what I'm here for. Pure. A year for honey. Actually, the more I think about that. Yeah, that's a good question, mate. I look forward to your. Your. Your gift arriving in the post after the lockdown and I'll be able to judge for myself on the. Oh, quite happily arranged that. Don't be daft. Thank you, Phil. We got a lot. That's right. Take care. I hope you're happy with the answer. Oh, and there's the round of applause. Sorry, I forgot. Keith's back in the house today after his own battles. He's been back this week, but it's his first mystery hour in a while and I know how much he's missed it. Samantha is in Winchmore Hills. Samantha, question or answer? Oh, no. We'll go to Danny in Worcester then. Danny, question or answer? So I hope. Yes. Stripey toothpaste. Well, I can only. I can only go for one brand, but that's the main. The main one. That's fine. A stripe is. A stripe is a stripe. Well, yeah, it's. Most of the toothpaste is white. Well, nearly all the toothpaste is white. As the toothpaste comes out through the nozzle. If you look at it just as you take the cap off the very first time before you squeezed it. You'll notice that there's about five or six little ridges, and they contain, like, a red dye or possibly some toothpaste in it. And as the white toothpaste comes out, the stripes come in it. I used to think it was all wound up in there with stripes, but it is. Just run me again through how they get it in. Well, you've got. The bulk of it is white, so it's. The majority of toothpaste is white. And in the nozzle, if you're looking at some little ridges, and they've got, like, a red die in them, there's about five or six, which around the. The edge of the. The exit of where the. Where the tooth space come in. And as you squeeze it, the. The red dyes, it goes into the toothpaste or sits on the surface. So it looks like. So if I chopped the tube in half, it would be white inside at the bottom. Yeah. Well, I've never done it. I absolutely guarantee it is, because I. I was fascinated by this once, and I. When I took the top off, because normally somebody squished, know, squash the toothpaste, and they. Yes, of course, you very rarely get a pristine tube. Well, this is it. So. And this. This stuff is my favorite toothpaste, actually. So I looked at it, and as it was coming out, I could see the little red. The grooves with the little red dye in. And as you squeeze it, just put the dye in. Well, you live and learn. That was a great, great question to question. Yeah. Jacob will be delighted with your answer. Yeah. And also now too much toothpaste. No. And also, I hope he doesn't conduct any experiments of his own. I hope he believes you and doesn't, for example, get the scissors out and start chopping up all the toothpaste in the house, because that would be very naughty. Jacob, a round of applause. Yes, exactly that. A round of applause for Danny. Great work. And let's try once again with Samantha in Winchmore Hill. Samantha, question or answer? Is the coronavirus in space? Is the coronavirus in space? It might be on the surface of a spaceship. It's highly unlikely, but it wouldn't be able to survive in any way in the rest of space, because there is no. Well, there's nothing there. It's a vacuum. Does that answer your question, or am I sounding like a show off who doesn't actually know what he's talking about? Samantha. What? How D. This. What? This is a mutiny. Mutiny. Mute. Okay, so you need someone who is cleverer than me to tell you whether or not there is any coronavirus in space. How. How easy. Samantha, do you think it's going to be to find someone who is cleverer than me? Um, a bit simple. Very easy indeed. Thank you very much, Samantha. I shall probably try to get you an answer to your question, if I can. Is there any coronavirus in space? What a great question. We've done the fighting bees and the strifey toothpaste. We need to know what the first ever board game was for Serena and where the rim for a red cameras can pick up cold blooded animals. For Lily. Annie needs to know why there are ridges in tin cans. And Hannah wants to know where the stars get bigger as they get older. And that is stars with a t. We have checked some of my correspondents on Twitter, perhaps need to get their ears waxed. And what was summer in Enfield? That sounds like. Sounds like a rubbish song. I don't know. And Samantha in Winchmore Hill wants to know about the coronavirus in space. What did summer in Enfield? Want to know? Keith, I'll check with you in the break, mate. What was it? Yes, the 24 hours clock. Who came up with a 24 hours clock? Well done, everybody. And we go next to Lee. Who's in who? Lee. Question or answer? Hi, James. Yeah, it's an answer, mate. Carry on. About the cold blooded animals, the reptiles, snakes, etc. Yes, well. Well, the answer itself is actually almost in the question that they're cold blooded. Now, their actual body temperature is actually controlled by their ambient surroundings. Right. It's the blood that's cold, but not their body. So they would still be picked up on an infrared camera, assuming the ambient air temperature was of a certain, you know, height. So cold blooded doesn't mean cold creature. Not at all. Not at all. No, no, no. That's why most cold blooded animals, reptiles, snakes, are predominantly found in tropical countries, because obviously they need to get their heat from their surroundings so they can heat their blood up, but their body temperature itself is controlled by their ambient surrounding temperature. That's beautifully. Which is why you have to have heat lamps in aquariums for reptiles. Absolutely, absolutely. Yeah. Now, obviously, you know, if your body temperature is that low that the infrared camera won't pick it up, then obviously, yes. But assuming the ambient temperature is of a certain degree, it'll always be picked up by infrared because it's their blood that's cold. Beautifully done. Beautifully done. Qualifications? I've kept them for most of my life, James. I grew up with them and I've worked with them for years. And, yeah, I still keep them. Now, what's the appeal, Lee? Do you know what? It's the other wealthiness. It's the fact that they do require, you know, such looking after. You know, you have to get everything right. You have to get the humidity, the temperature, everything just right, you know? And if you do get it right, they'll reward you, because in a lot of cases, you know, reptiles are very clever, you know, they can become very tame. Is that right? And they recognize who's looking after them. I recognize the carer, as it were. Oh, blimey. Well, I've got a large african monitor and no one likes a show off. No one likes a show off, Lee. Yeah. He'll eventually be about four foot, but he's very tame. And, yeah, he definitely recognizes me. I'll definitely. Yeah, absolutely. Beyond the shadow of a doubt. You've got me all. You've got me all dewy eyed about blooming great reptiles. Lee, great work. Have a round of applause on me. Cheers, mate. Thanks very much. And you. Yeah, good man, Lee. Thank you for bearing that in mind. I also. There's something about enthusiasm. I don't know whether Lee will appreciate this. I hope he does. I call it the Fred Dibner syndrome. When you see Fred Dibner, the late Fred Dibner on the telly, he was a sort of steeplejack, I think, from Lancashire. But the problem with getting any mistakes at all on northern counties is that it's a cardinal sin in those counties. But he was a steeplejack, fascinated by chimneys and climbing stuff. But something about the way he communicated it was so contagious, actually, that he made you interested in the things he was interested in. And Lee had that, didn't he? There was a depth of knowledge and enthusiasm there that was. I probably shouldn't be using words like infectious and contagious in the current context, but it's too late now. The time is 12:30. Bill Overton is here with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1233 is the time. Mystery hour. A rather lovely mystery hour this week and still some questions needing answers. What was the first ever board game? Someone should know that. A pub quizzer should know that. It's a brilliant question from Serena. Why do tin cans have ridges? Because in design terms, it makes them less effective than they would otherwise be. Do stars grow? It's gone a little bit Laurel versus Yanny, if you know what I mean by that. But I'm sticking with stars. Do stars grow as they get older? Where does the 24 hours clock come from and is there any coronavirus in space? And if you're thinking to yourself, if you've just tuned in and you're thinking, my goodness me, James, the questions this week are absolutely brilliant. They are heads and shoulders above the usual calibre of questions that you get on mystery. What on earth is going on? Then I'd have to tell you that thanks to Jacob and Polly and Lily and Serena and Hannah and Summer and Samantha, with a little shout out to Annie, who's probably beginning to wish she hadn't rung in this week, my questioners are, so far, only one has been over the age of twelve. And that is why the quality of questions, I suspect, is so unexpectedly and unprecedentedly high. Let's crack on, shall we? If you can answer any of the ones that are on the board, then please do so. If you've got a question of your own that you'd like to get on board, whatever your age may be, then zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Let's go to Birmingham. Mark, is there. Mark, question or answer? Answer. Good man. Carry on to the question about stars growing as they grow older. Yes. So if we take our sun as an example, our sun is powered by a process called fusion, which happens in the core, and that occurs because hydrogen atoms basically smash together with so much force, they stick together to make a new element, helium, and that releases a huge amount of energy which keeps the star glowing. Our sun has been doing that stably for about four and a half billion years, and it's got enough hydrogen in the core to do it for about same amount of time again. But in about four and a half billion years time, the hydrogen in the core will start to run low, it starts to drop, and what happens then is the core contracts and that heats the star up, which pushes the outer layers massively out into space. So it won't grow in terms of mass, but it will grow hugely in size, I think. And then it will die? Yeah, yeah, it will eventually just, you know, fusion will stop. But our sun, I think the current prediction is that the outer layers will swell out to roughly pretty much where the Earth is in its orbit at the moment. So Venus and mercury will be completely swallowed by the sun. If we survive it, you know, obviously life would have ended by then because it would be pretty warm on Earth, but then eventually the whole process just dies out. The outer layers of the sun will waft their way into space to become an amazing nebula. And what will be left behind? A small white dwarf will gradually, over about 30 to 50 billion years, I think, just fade away. So probably after the lockdown has ended, then hopefully. What are your qualifications? That's a beautiful answer, by the way. What are your qualifications? Oh, thank you. I'm a physics teacher, but also a keen amateur astronomer as well. Well, there you could not have been better qualified. Mark, accept this round of applause with our compliments. Thank you. Especially from Hannah. I don't suppose you want to have a crack at answering whether or not scars with a c grow as they get older, just to keep my good friend Ian Lee happy. I guess it depends on what they eat. Scott, give up. Thank you, mate. Chris is an Ealing. Chris, question or answer? Hello. Good afternoon, James. It's an answer. Please carry on, Chris. Okay. It's to do with the cans. You were right. It is to do with the. Keeping it stronger. The reason that they put the. They squash it so that you get the sort of. The rigidness of it. It keeps it strong. If you just had it plain and smooth, it'd be very flimsy. And that's why they do it. You were actually correct. Yes, I thought I was, but it's nice that. Well, I need to check on your qualifications before I call you an expert. What are your qualifications? Sorry, qualifications were myself and my daughter, Camilla. We were watching that program inside the factory a few weeks ago with, um. With Greg Wallace. Absolutely fantastic. And he was at the. I don't know if I can say their name, but Heinz, and they were making, you know, tin soup and it was a canning procedure, and they said, why'd you make the. Why? To put the little dents in them. And it's basically structural to keep the can strong. If you didn't put the dents in them, then the can be all soft and flimsy. And that's why it's a beautiful answer. You've got your round of applause, but you have to share it with Camilla, obviously. What? Why is that program so good? Because. I don't know, it just hooks you in from beginning to end. It totally does. Fascinating. Yeah. And his enthusiasm, again, maybe, is he's got a touch of the Fred Dibna's about him as well, because his enthusiasm is quite infectious. Have you seen the one about. Was it le creuse a this week? Making the pan. Making the. Yeah. That was incredible. So, knowledge. I mean, I learned so much. Yeah, yeah, yeah. From mining iron ore. From mining iron ore right through to making a boule bass or chucking pans back on a defective file. Oh, you've earned this. With flying colors marked. No, Chris. Sorry, Chris. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. And half of that, at least, possibly three quarters for your daughter Camilla, as well. 1239 is the time. What was the first ever board game? I'm going to answer that myself if no one rings in. But I don't know whether Serena would accept that. We've done the ridged cans. We've done do stars grow? We need to do. And I'll tell you what, when I said to Hannah that we needed someone who wasn't just a show off and knew what they were talking about, to answer that question. Oh, no, that. That was the coronavirus question. I think with. With Samantha, that's still there. Is there any coronavirus in space? And where does the 24 hours clock come from? Charlotte is in Litchfield. Charlotte, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. What makes bones stop growing? How does your body know to stop your arms from growing to the floor? Well, be quite. Would it be useful to have arms that reach the floor or not? I can't decide. You wouldn't have to bend over as much when you were clearing up, would you be good for Lego bones? I don't know. I thought I might be able to answer that one, Charlotte, but absolutely nothing has appeared in my brain as I waited. Um, so I shall find out for you. How does your body know to tell your bones to stop growing? To the growing. And it's all bones. I mean, you're not obsessed with arms, you're interested in other bones and other limbs as well. Oh, I like that. How old are you, Charlotte? I'm keeping a tally this week. 1010 years old. Fantastic question. I shall try to find out for you. It's probably got something to do with evolution, but quite what it's got to do with evolution, I don't know. Why do your bones stop? Why do we stop growing? Why do we stop growing is what she essentially asked with particular reference to bones and arms. 1241 is the time. I've got to tell you, my notes this week are an absolute skip fire, so I hope someone else is keeping an eye on proceedings. We'll do the bones question for Charlotte. We've got the coronavirus question for Samantha, the 24 hours clock question for summer. And according to my calculations, that is it. So if you can answer any of those three questions, you've got a very, very good chance of getting on the radio this week. Henri is in Ealing. Henri, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. It is these fishes drink water? Because I know that they are surrounded by water, but they don't have a system like us to drink water. No. So, I mean, they ingest water, as in, you know, it goes into them and then comes out of their gills. But when you say drink, you mean do they, do they need the fluid, as it, as it were? Am I right or not? Yes. Like do they get thirsty and need to drink as well as filter air through their gills? Yes. Yeah, I could tell you were clever. I shall find out for you. Henri, do fish drink water? It's a great question, actually. I wonder who would know. Bear with me. We will try and get you an answer to that question imminently. It is 1242, Clayton. Thank you, Henri. How old are you, Henri, before you go. I'm 13. Thank you for asking. Well, you're very welcome. Do you realize you're the second oldest contributor, the second oldest questioner on mystery hour this week and you're 13 years old. That's quite a turn up for the book. So now all we have to do is get you a jolly good answer to that question. Clayton is in Woodford. Clayton, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Clayton. I think it's your board game question. Yes, the oldest board game that I know is a viking board game or a norwegian board game called Tafel. And the reason I know this is because there was an exhibit in a museum in, on the south coast and I asked us to print the pieces for them. Oh, wow. That they could have some examples of. Is it a bit like chess? It's very similar to chess, yeah. But they reprinted the load of pieces off for them so visitors could go and actually have a go at playing the game without the original pieces. Oh, wow. Well, I mean, there's, that, there's a very ancient chess set on, on one of the scottish islands as well. It's got, it's named after the island where it was found and I think that came over with the Vikings. Unfortunately, despite your brilliant qualifications, I can, I know there's a game that's older than that. Really? Yeah. I'm thinking 3000 years ago in China, mate. Oh, is that mahjong, is it? Mahjong might be a contender. I'm not going definitive on that. There's another one that I'm thinking of, which computers have recently, for the very first time, computers have managed to beat humans. Like, I could be wrong, but I can't give you the right. I'll give you a round of applause for your brilliant qualifications involving 3d printers, but I can't give you a round of applause for your answer. Okay, thank you. Thank you, mate. I was a great bit of business. Grant is in Bermondsey. Grant. Question or answer? It's an answer. Which question? To the board game. One. Ah, good. Go on, then. So it's Senate. What's that? It's an ancient egyptian board game and is the oldest known board game to have existed. It's a three x six tiled game and I think the oldest known copy is from about 3000 BC. I was going to go with go. Yeah, I know you were going to go with go. I heard that and I was like, no, I remember reading this in a. Is it definitely older? It's definitely established. I mean, it might not. It might. I mean, go might have predated it, but in terms of proof and evidence, it's. How do you spell senate? S e n e t. I might not be pronouncing correctly, but I've just always. I don't think there'll be many ancient Egyptians listening to pick you up on your pronunciation, Grant. I love that. What are your qualifications? I read it in a old egyptian encyclopedia for kids when I was, like, twelve years old and it stuck forever. Yep. It's. I've always loved board games as well, so it's just one of those things. That's a great question. Um. I think it was. I've lost the person. Yes. It was Serena who wanted an answer to that question. What. What if you had to? I don't know if you know this, so don't. Don't worry, you've already got your round of applause. What can we think of a more modern and more commonly known game to which it bears a passing resemblance? I've never actually played it, so I couldn't really say checkersy or something like that. Yeah, it looks like kind of a checkersy sort of thing. Maybe it's like kind of a combination of chess and checkers or something like that. Counters on a board. Counters on a board is going to be the starting point. I think it's funny because when he asked about board games, when Serena. Sorry, she asked about board games, I was thinking of much more modern things, like what was the first commercially produced boxed board game? Monopoly or Cluedo? And that might be what she meant, but that's not the answer she's going to get. She's getting this answer here. It's the ancient, ancient egyptian board game of Senate. Round of applause for grant in Bermondsey. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And I'm glad we gave Clayton in Woodford a round of applause as well, because his answer was dripping with knowledge and interesting information, albeit that it didn't actually constitute a correct answer. It's 1246, coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. As the leaders of the world's seven largest advanced economies meet to discuss the coronavirus crisis, I'll focus on our economy, your work, and your safety at work. Sheila Fogarty on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1248 is the time. And mystery hour has been a Lloyd Joy this week. We still need to know how your body knows to stop growing, how your bones know to stop growing. And do you know what? Charlotte's question is even more brilliant than we realized when she asked it, because, of course, things like fingernails and hair carry on growing. So what is it about bones and what have you that stops growing? How does your body do that? And Samantha wants to know whether or not there is any coronavirus in space. I tried to answer that, but she was, quite frankly, very dismissive of my intelligent attempt at answering that question. Indeed, she agreed with some alacrity to my suggestion that I was a massive show off who didn't know what I was talking about. So watch this space. And there was one other, was there? And the 24 hours clock. We need to know who came up. Somewhere in Enfield wants to know who came up with the 24 hours clock. Where did that come from? Do not adjust your radio sets. One of my neighbors that I don't know behind me rather than alongside me. I think they've just started mowing their lawn. Just bear with me for the next ten minutes of the program. Alex is in Guildford. Alex, question or answer? Answer. James, can you hear the lawnmower, mate? No. No, just your dog. All right. Thank goodness for that. What a really, I can. But I shall ignore it like a true professional. Which question would you like to answer? The fish one, please. Oh, thank God. I forgot about that. Sorry. God. Ray, Dan Rhee wants to know whether or not fish can drink water. Take it away, Alex. Right, I'll keep this as simple as I possibly can. Yes. The answer is osmosis. Go on. Come on, Keith. Come on, Keith. Are you sure? Hang on, hang on. Go. You follow my instructions, not Alex's. Are you know that? Because the question is, do fish drink water? So the answer can't be osmosis. The answer is yes or no. Well, I suppose it's. Yeah, we just fish drink water. I mean, if you're defining it with a mouse? I don't know. No, that's ingesting. Do they need water to hydrate themselves in the same way that mammals do? Of course they do. Yeah. There is living creature and they absorb it via a semi permeable membrane using a process which you described. It was gone then. Keith, I wonder. It's been a while, Alex, what percentage. I've got so many more listeners now. I'm not showing off. I'm quite happy to admit it when I'm showing off, but I've got hundreds of thousands more listeners a week than I had when we started doing that and we haven't done it for ages. So I'm just wondering what proportion of the people listening have got a Scooby Doo? What is going on when you say that word and we play that chorus? I think very few. And I don't think you're. Some of your staff have a clue as well. One of them, when I. No, they don't know. When I said my conversations, they said to me, um. Oh, and I wouldn't normally put you through for that. No, well, I'm with. I've been dated. Well, I think that, you know, that establishes you as hardcore mystery. Our hardcore mystery, our purist and my wonderful colleagues Harel and Ava have not been around for as long as you and I have. Alex, I will tell you what I was trying to get through for last week because I thought you'd really find it interesting, but they didn't put me through so well. I'm going to have to trust their judgment on that one. What are your qualifications? What are your qualifications on the fish question? I have heard it. I think I'm going to give you a round of applause. Although I sense that Henri was a quite a hard taskmaster and he may not feel we've gone far enough. Luckily, the management's decision is final. Round of applause for Alex, please. Thank you, James. Yeah, I thought this might happen. Sam's in Feltham. Sam, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. And it's an answer to the toothpaste question, so it's actually a inquiry. Oh, Jinkx padlock. One, two, three. Okay. What actually happens is when the toothpaste is made, it's made out of white and the other colors. So you've got the main color of white and then you've got the smaller colors that are in a different tube. Sorry, a different nozzle. So when it's actually pumped into the tube, it. Because of the viscosity, it all sticks together. So it actually doesn't do what the guy who answered it before does is not actually in the tube. Well, he was made. He was a great. He was at great pain to tell us that this was only on one brand of stripey toothpaste to which his theory applied. But, I mean, I lean towards yours because I'm pretty sure I've seen pictures of toothpaste tubes chopped in half. And the stripes run from top to bottom, don't they? That's correct. And sometimes you get the actual pump toothpaste. Yes. And you can see it there, that it's not what. You can. You can, you can, you can. So maybe there is a single brand which fits Danny's description, but your stewards inquiry has been upheld. What are your qualifications? What are your qualifications, out of interest? I actually work for a company that make toothpaste. Shut up. Nope. Have you been on the production line? Have you been down on the. On the shop floor checking out the. You can actually go and see anything made where I work. That's lovely. Well, it's got you a round of applause as well. So a round of applause for Sam with a successful sewage inquiry. No. Beautifully done, Sam. Thank you. Thank you so much. Look after you, Sam. 1254 is the time. And so we've got the 24 hours clock and coronavirus in space and bones. So if you know the answer to any of those questions, you will get on. And we could go. We could go peak mystery out. We could clear the board completely. So where does the 24 hours clock come from? When was it invented? Who invented it? What is the reason why we stopped growing? And is there any coronavirus in space where no one can hear you scream? 1254 is the time Jiotti is in. Doesn't say where you are, Jiotti, but here you are. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Jiotti. Okay, so apparently there are two bones in either one of your hands, and when they join together, your body knows to stop growing. Seriously? Yeah. Which bones? In my hand. Do you know? No. I'm not really sure what they're called, but they're two bones. And then as you grow, they are slowly draining together. And then once they touch, then your body stops growing. Well, I mean, I really like this answer and I don't want to. I don't want to seem pushy, but what are your qualifications? I asked the doctor when they took an x ray of my hand. Really? Yeah. And he said, when those two bones join together, that is when you have stopped growing. It's a really good answer. How old are you? I'm eleven. Oh, great stuff. I think I'm going to give you a round of applause for that. I just. I've got. Do you know what a chicken and egg problem is, Giotti? No. So when you say, if I said to you, what came first, the chicken or the egg? And you'd say, well, the egg, obviously. And I'd say, well, who laid the egg? And then go, oh, no, it must be the chicken. And then I'd say, well, what did the chicken come out of? So I don't know if the bones meet because your body has stopped growing or your body stops growing because the bones have met. Do you see what I mean? Yeah. But to be honest, I'd say a sack has no beginning. If you answer right. Can we have three, three, three rounds of applause for Giotti, please? One, two. And finally. Beautifully done. Absolutely beautifully done. Thank you so much. That was a beautiful answer. And also, you dealt with my quibbling in an expert fashion from which many Brexiters could probably learn a thing or two. Thank you, Jotty. Patrick is on the line. Patrick, question or answer? Apparently we've stopped putting locations on the screen. Carry on. What have you got? It's an answer to the coronavirus question. Oh, good. Is there any coronavirus in space? Which is a very good question, because we do lose a little bit of atmosphere in space all the time. However, coronaviruses are quite unstable viruses. They last up to a matter of days, five days, six days, max. Yes, indeed. As they would drift up through the atmosphere, they'd be exposed to more and more ultraviolet radiation, and ultraviolet radiation destroys nucleic acids. That's why we get skin cancer and so on. It damages nucleic acids. So as it would drift up in the atmosphere, it would get more and more ultraviolet, being less and less shielded by ozone and so on. So the answer to that would be no, there wouldn't be any viable, at least, virus in space, because, as I say, it's quite an unstable one, having a fatty coat rather than a protein. That's another chicken and egg question, actually, because you don't even need to know whether or not, if you could get it into space before it, somehow avoiding all the ultraviolet light, then it wouldn't be able to survive anyway. But your answer explains why that's a. That's a theoretical speculation. Oh, it's a great, beautiful answer. What a great week. What are your qualifications? I studied viruses at uni and I'm a biology teacher. So when we say that with this final segment of mystery, we are following the science, Patrick. We'd be both topical and correct. You're following, yes. A version of science. In this case, the correct one. Yes. Shall we say? Yes. And this is biological science as opposed to virology. Virological science as opposed to behavioral science. Round of applause for Patrick, please. Oh, lovely. I just need to apologize to summer. We didn't get an answer to the 24 hours clock question. But don't worry, we'll be here next week and I hope we'll be doing mystery hour. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear here on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. The g seven meets today online. Like the rest of us, the world's seven largest advanced economies, including the UK, led by Dominic Raab in for Boris Johnson, will discuss the impact coronavirus is having and is likely to continue to have on the global economy. I want to focus as well on your economy, your job, your sector and your community's future. Is globalization forever changed by COVID exposed as it left many countries with no quick supply chains for vital equipment? Is help coming for you as workers dried up because of the lockdown? Are you like bus and train drivers, tell us, working in unsafe conditions during the crisis? And as talk turns to life after lockdown, how do you feel about returning to work while coronavirus still reigns on your radio? On global player and play LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.