If i levitate and land, would I be in the same spot? - 10 Sep 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 Tweet LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where our weekly frolic begins. This year is an adventure into the unknown. It's also very funny. Don't take my word for it. Ask iTunes. They regularly file it under the top ten podcasts in their comedy section. So why? What's all the fuss about? Well, you're about to find out. If you're new. Here's the phone number. Zero 345-606-0973 you'll only hear me say those numbers when I have phone lines free. And this is by some distance the busiest hour of the week. Don't be put off, though. You've got to be in it to win it. And an awful lot of people ring in with questions that have to be politely rejected. So in order to avoid that grisly fate, don't ring in with something boring and don't ring in with something repetitious. Repetition probably harder to avoid than dullness. The who, the why, the what, the where, the when, the whither or the whence. Here's the question. Why do we do that? Where does that come from? What is this? What is that? Why, why, why, what, where, where, where, where? And you don't know the answer, but somebody does. You've seen the newspaper columns where a reader will write in and then wait weeks for another reader to provide an answer. Well, this provides almost instant gratification, because the other point is, if you hear somebody ask a question that you know the answer to, you have to ring in with the answer and the number remains the same. I think that's pretty much it, actually. I don't know why I go through the rubric every week. If you've never listened to it before, you can work it out by ten pass just by listening to the sort of questions that we take. But generally speaking, if your question is likely, if the answer to your question is likely only to be of interest to you, don't ring in with it. It needs to be something that's going to make me and everybody else listening go, oh, I can't wait to find out. Oh, I've never thought about that before. Oh, yes, that's what we're looking for, the oh, yes moments. All right. So if you've got an oh, yes moment, then you can go straight to the front of the queue. If you've got a flipping eck moment, then save your twopence and leave your phone in your pocket. Alison's in Crawley. Alison, what is your question? Right. My question, James, is what is short crust? Why is the short in short crust pastry? Easy for you to say. Do you want to put your teeth in and start again? Yes, I do. What is. What is short about short crust pastry? Well, hang on. How's the phone line? Have we lost another phone line here? Because. Are you there? Still no phone lines. Gone again. Okay, I got the question, but I think you can answer it yourself by just going through your recipes. What. How do you. What's not short crust pastry is normal. It's not gonna. Because all ordinary pastry is referred to as short crust pastry. But I'm not sure what. Why the use of the word short? I think it's to do with the amount of fat that's in it. But why. Why is fat short? I've never called fat short. No. Short and fat, yes, but not short is fat. Yes, you've met me then. The reason I was annoyed, though, with the phone line is because I thought I knew the answer to this. But I've just realized, Alison, you can carry on quietly having hysterics in the background. I'll crack on. I'll crack on with the question. What is short about fat about short crust pastry? It has got something to do with fat. I'm sure. Misses O'Brien taught me this when she was writing her cookbook, but I've completely forgotten. Don't tell her. Sean's in Wallington. Question or answer, Sean. Question. James. What does the phrase hunky. Where does he originate from the phrase hunky dory? And why does he mean what it does, hunky dory. Where does he originate from? That's one of one of my favorite albums of all time. Hunky dory. Oh, fantastic. If the homework brings you down, we'll throw it on the fire and take the car downtown. It's going to be one of my desert island discs. That work. Shauna, that's gonna be one of my desert island discs. That is kooks. World exclusive for you. Hunky dory. Sounds american, doesn't it? Hunky dory? I think he's gypsy talk. Someone told me french. I'm not sure. Okay, Dore, what Dory would mean golden door. I would mean golden. What would Anki? Yeah, donkey. Dory. Golden. Golden something. Golden one. Golden. The golden one. Golden one. We um, we're not actually going to get to an answer, are we? However long we carry on doing really rubbish David Bowie impressions. Yeah. Cease the speculation and throw it open to the floor. Sure. All right, so we got short cross pastry and hunky dory. There you go. I told you the first two questions would establish the parameters. If I add into the mix the fact that the most frequent contributor to mystery hour from an answering point of view is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, then you'll realize that we can go highbrow as well. Joseph is in. Lee. Question or answer? Joseph. Question. Hello? Yeah, I'm here. There's nothing wrong with my phone line. Yeah, okay. Right. Listen. What it is, right, I go to bed at night, bathroom, close my eyes, and just for a split second or so, I have white flashes, you know, like stars flashing across the front of me eyes. It's not the medical hour, Joe. No, I know it's not the medical hour because I asked other people about this. It doesn't happen all the time, but I just wonder what it is. Do you know? It's. I'm not squinting like when I just. It's just a normal go to bed, very dark room. That's it. And I close my eyes and I just have like a white flash going from the left to the right, the right to the left, you know, just for split second or so. Is it, is it like as if someone's turned the lights on and off really quickly? No, no, not at all. It's literally, I know what you're saying by that. Someone comes in, turns on. It's literally, I just close my eyes. I've asked other people about it. A few people say, yes, it's happened to them. A few people said no, they've never really noticed it. They say, go very far. I've said that again. And it's just like a white flash. And literally for a split second, it's like that. Click your finger that fast. Happens a couple of times and then start. And your eyes are shut at the time. My eyes are shut at the time, yes. No, I like that. I like that. I mean, I hope it. I mean, what do we do if. Oh, mate, you've put me in quite a difficult position. I'm surprised they've put you through, actually. What's that? Well, what if you're Paulie or something and someone, a doctor rings in and says, all crikey. Needs to get himself to. Well, hopefully they'll be straight up to the hospital, go to see a neurosurgeon, will I? Yeah. All right. As long as we're both prepared for that possibility, Joseph. Well, look at it like this. If there's anything wrong with me, I'll put it down to mystery arrow. Ok. I'm not sure that we're medically qualified, but I'll put a question out there. Why does Joseph get white flashes in front of his eyes sometimes just before he nods off to sleep? What's the origin of the phrase hunky dory? And what exactly is short about short crust pastry? Dan's in Bromley. Question or answer, Dan? It's a question. Yes. When you eat chicken, you eat the part of the chicken, you eat the breast. The leg. The thigh? Yeah. When you eat beef, you eat a joint. Really? Don't you have the loin, the rump? When you eat pork, you've got gammon, you've got ham, you've got bacon. Why don't we give parts of the pork different names? Why don't we just call it pork leg? I know you do get leg pulp, but why do we give it names like gammon, bacon, ham. Where does that all come from? Because it doesn't refer to the location of the cut of meat, it refers to the treatment of it. So everything you've described has been cured in some way. So it's like, imagine bacon. You couldn't call it pork slices because it's been cured or salted or smoked. Same with ham, has already been cooked and gammon is uncooked ham. So it's about where the. Where the meat has been rather than where it's come from, if you follow me. When we don't do that to other meats, I don't know why. We don't know. I mean, chicken pate, I suppose you have, but you never have cured chicken, do you? Deliver, though, isn't it? That's more, yeah. Oh, you've done me, then, haven't you? Yeah, that's all it is. I mean, I thought when you started asking that, it was going to be the question about why we don't say pig and we say pork. And I've forgotten the answer to that. It's got something to do with the Normans. But in terms of why we say ham, gammon, it's because they've been treated. They're not just raw pork, cured or salted or treated. And you need a name so that if I said she can have six slices of pork and you gave me six slices of pork breast or pork belly, and I wanted bacon, we'd have a problem, wouldn't we? Fair enough. Thank you. Thank you very much. What? That. Sorry, mate. I have Jones, the engineer, talking in my ear about why he wasn't going to give me a round of applause. And we've lost Dan. Now, I don't care whether the producer is happy with the answer or not. When he's got his own mystery, he can make the rules. Robin is in slough. Robin, question or answer? It's an answer, Jane. Bring it on, Robin. Short crust pastry. Yes. Is made with fat, which used to be called shortening. And the reason it used to be called shortening is because if you put fat into flour, it lubricates the flour so that the gluten don't stretch the protein strands. Pastry is then short and not long, which is stretchy pastry. What would you make with stretchy pastry? Effectively cakes, breads, anything where you want to create a structure in it rather than just drape it over something that is something that rises. Yes. And so it was. I mean, I was. I was knocking at the right door, but I hadn't quite picked the lock. And just remind me again your qualifications. Two days ago, I was on a cookery course at the river totties, where they happened to mention it. Oh, get in. Two days ago. Two days and already. Have you cooked anything yet or is this the first time you've put your lessons to good use? This is, to be honest, the first time I put my lessons to good use. I love it, I love it, I love it, I love it, I love it. Well played. It's coming up to 1215. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions that still need answers. We've done the pastry and we've done the ham one. White flashes before Joseph. Nice. Just before he nods off. Please, God, it's not serious. And the origin of the phrase hunky dory. If you can answer either of those, you know what to do. If you've got a question of your own, the number remains the same. This is LBC Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 19 minutes after twelve. Why does Joseph get white flashes in his eyes just before he nods off to sleep? And what's the origin of the phrase hunky dory? And various other questions that are on their way. Yours could be among them. 0345-6060 Bob's in Brentwood. Question or answer, Bob? It's an answer, James. Carry on. Light flashes in the eye. Oh, yes. It's caused by either a detachment of the retina or a detachment of the membrane that surrounds the jelly within the eye. And it's better to have the detachment of the membrane around the jelly rather than a detached retina because the detached retina can cause a loss of some vision. So if he had a detached retina, he'd probably know about it. No, no. The best thing, if that's just started, the best thing he can do is go to his local eye clinic and very quickly. Really, I was worried this was going to happen. That's why I don't think we should have put it through. It's too serious. No, he should go and get it checked. What are your qualifications? My sister had the same problem. I was with her and I was asking lots of questions, so I know, I know about it, but I would like to know is the medical term for it. But I'll try and find out. Okay, well, I'm going to give you a round of applause, but it seems horribly inappropriate in the circumstances, I think. Just go and get it checked out, mate. Seriously, Bob, thank you. Thank you, genuinely. I mean, I'm sounding ungrateful. It's also questions being asked. It's better to get an answer. And also, you know, if there is even the vaguest possibility, as I did suggest, that of it being serious, then better safe than sorry. Could this be mystery hour's first medical cure? Malcolm's in Gatwick. Malcolm, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Oh, it's an odd question. The credit, like Greece, is in such bad debt. We're in debt. Where does this money come from? Like some nation must be doing really well, that's holding all this money that's lent it out. It isn't. It had to exist. So to whom. To whom is a national debt owed? Correct. I mean, that's a good question. I just find it confusing. We hear about this amount of debt, this amount of debt, but I roll it back and, well, where does it start from? Where does the money come from? Yes. So, I mean, it's amazing that this isn't discussed. We've tried to do it on the show. We dedicated a whole hour to it once. But it's amazing that more of us don't wonder and worry about this. It's like we just blindly accept that we're trillions of pounds in debt or that we're drowning under a sea of debt. But you're right, debt always involves somebody winning. For everyone who's losing, someone's winning. I mean, I have another question. I know you're not allowed to. But it's a silly one. No, really silly. No, I'm sure I will. I love silly stuff, but I can't stop breaking the rules just because you're silly. I think where it would end that way, madness lies. We'll have to ring back next week. I'll try and get an answer to the serious question first. It's your fault for going serious. You should have gone silly first if it was that funny. Wayne's in Harrow. Wayne, question or answer? I'm going to go silly first, then, James, because I have to say, I'm watching you through Virgin Media TV channel and your image on that channel is pretty gorgeous. Am I on telly at the moment? Are they putting this out live this week? Nobody told me. That's outrageous. This is like yesterday's conversation about care homes. Just your photograph? Oh, no, no, just the photo. Because we are now doing some sort of video accompaniments to mystery. How? But I didn't think we were actually broadcasting live. Well, I'm outraged that you think I'm gorgeous just by looking at my photograph. I think that's unacceptable. And miss. Miss misanthropic behaviour, please think twice before telling other people half your age such sexist things. Wayne, I will definitely think twice about. I'm sure no one will affect me as much as your image has. Carry on, carry on. James, you know people on death row in the United States for decades. I think the longest post is over 30 years. Yes. Why is that? I understand that there are reasons why people have to appeal and you give more seriousness to death, but surely if you say, I've got evidence, the judge will say, okay, come back in six months. Your evidence. But why do they get decades? How can you spend. Why do people spend decades on death row? I like that question. It's occurred to me before. I've got no idea what the answer is, which is why I like that question. I put it. It's on there now. So why do people spend decades on death row? Once a sentence has been handed down, brutal though it may be, why isn't it immediately exercised? To whom is national debt owed? When a country is in debt, or is said to have a national debt of x trillion or billion or million pounds, to whom is that money actually owed? What's the origin of the phrase hunky dory? And we've done the white flashes, but, I mean, if there is actually a less serious answer to that, I'm kind of tempted to find out what it is. Pips in Waltham Cross. Pip question answer question, James. Hi. Hi. I live in Hertfordshire, so just up the road from north London. So my local evening news is London, but very occasionally I'll get it from Worcestershire, Birmingham, and then being a kid of the seventies, it's really disconcerting when sometimes it's meridian and it's Fred Dinage. So how is it that my local news berries? Is this on the telly? Yes, yes. Yeah, it seems to be on radio days that the local news gets picked up from, you know, all points north sort of thing. Television or radio, sorry to label the point. Television. Television. So it's your local, you know, after the news you got your local news. Are you sure you're watching the same channel? You're not just. Have you got sky? Well, yeah, it comes through Freeview thing. Have you got it? So you know that on Freeview you can watch all of the regional. Oh, it's not something I've actually. I've never actually changed anything. Well, it hasn't happened by accident. Oh, it's not something I've done. No, you've accidentally tuned in. You've accidentally tuned into meridian. Well, I haven't done anything. It's just, it just happens. So. So you're watching, you're watching neighbors, what's on them? Yeah. Or the BBC News, for example. So you watch the national news and you're watching it quite happily and then at the end it crosses to the regional, then you have your local news and that's right, so it should be London, but sometimes it's only when it's rainy. Oh, okay. So it might be something to do with the connection in your book. I think this. I gotta be honest, pip, don't take this the wrong way, but when I said at the outset, if your question is. If the answer to your question is only going to be of interest to you and not to anybody else, did you not hear any little alarm bells ringing in the back of your mind? I know about the cars. I'm sorry. It's just a genuine puzzle. And it's Fred Dinarge. It's just Fred. How? I know he does the local news in the meridian area. But you're telling me that your television automatically retunes to different ITV transmitters and you want to know why exactly? I don't know why. Okay. If you are the only person in the world to whom has happened, then it will go down in history as one of the worst questions ever. But if you've accidentally stumbled upon a widespread phenomenon, I will owe you an apology. 1226 is the time, Lucy's. In Bracknell. Question or answer, Lucy. I've got a question. It is. If gravity is such a powerful thing, which it is, because it holds things on the planet. This has started well. Yes. How can little limbs or branches, leaves of plants, not be pulled to the ground? Because the earth is rotating. But everything else has been pulled down to earth. But the arms, like what? What's been pulled down to earth? We are. That's why we're staying here and everything else. So you. Well, gravity calls everything down to earth, doesn't it? Yes. Yeah. So then how can really delicate little. Because. Because the earth is rotating. So it's been pulled in 360 degrees at every little different moment in time. Okay. If I drop a ball, it's going to fall to the ground. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Why isn't that little branch falling to the ground? I still think it's good. No, you haven't. Jones is. Jones is on your side. He's in my ear saying I've gone down the wrong avenue. But I still think. Do you not remember in biology you did a test when you grew something on a rotating, like you grew up and it didn't head to the ground. If it didn't rotate, it would head to the ground, but because it was rotating, it grew in a straight line, outwards, horizontally. That's the answer. But I haven't explained it. Right, so we'll have to wait for someone who can. Yeah. Is that my fault or is it your fault? Is the question brilliant, but you're just not keeping up. Or is the answer a bit rubbish and I haven't quite nailed it? Well, I hope the question is brilliant. And you're talking about stuff that grows, not stuff that just gets dropped. Because if you. Because if you chop that branch, it hits the ground straight away. Yeah, but a really light. Okay, so you've got any plant or. Really delicate. We were driving along the road, me and my husband, and we saw this really delicate plant growing. Yeah. It was really like growing and it just grows out or up wherever. And we were like, how come that's not like being pulled down to the earth? I'm not sure I fully understand the question, but somebody has, I'm sure, and they will ring in with an answer. Okay, so what would you expect the plant? You'd expect everything that grows to be about an inch off the ground. Why is it not being pulled down? Yeah. Why is gravity not pulling it down? Yeah. It's not like, how come we can jump in the air? How can we jump in here? Because we're using some sort of force. Well, so is the growing plant. We're not using like, sort of like an energy to get up in the air. Kinetic energy? Yeah. A plant isn't using kinetic energy, is. It's not flapping, it's. If it's growing. If it's growing, it's moving. Okay. A dead plant will do the same thing. No, it wouldn't. A dead plant would hit the ground. I've got dead plants here that are still stood up. Right. Bits of them are probably still alive. I don't know really what's going on. Now, I've got no idea whether this is a brilliant question or an absolutely ropey one, but I'm fairly confident that my response and answer were definitely ropey. So we'll leave the question on the board and pretend that I didn't reply. It's 29 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. All right, let's see if I can do this in double quick time. Ali's in Bethnal Green. Question or answer? Ali. Oh, hello, James. First time caller. I was wondering, if I was to levitate long enough, would I land in a different spot because the earth is spinning? Yes, it's 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 33 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Questions that still need answers include the origins of the phrase hunky dory. I thought that one would be ticked off first, to be honest with you, when we speak of a national debt, to whom is that debt owed? Why do people spend decades on death row when it would be relatively straightforward to enact the sentence sooner? And a curious question about gravity and plants. Why, if gravity is powerful enough to keep us on Earth, to keep us on this planet, why do plants not get drawn down or pushed down towards Earth? I think I've got that right. I think I've got that. I think I understood the question. And then, of course, there's pips telly, which we should probably get out of the way as quickly as possible, to which end, I'm delighted to say, Tony's here. He's in. Where are you, Tony? Peas pottage. Yeah, peas pottage. I've just left home, so I'm going back there soon. But I thought I'd say peas pottage in terms of posh. It does. I love it. Peas pottage. What have you got for me? Question or answer? Okay, it's an answer to the tv. Tv question, which is not silly, but yeah. And when she first tuned her boxing, depending where you live, you may pick up two different transmitters, say. So she's picked up London and possibly southeast transmitter to where she locally is and she. She isn't picking. When the weather goes poor, it won't just change automatically. She must be changing the channel. That's what I thought. But she swore she wasn't. Although she did sound a bit. The only thing. Yeah. I wouldn't say that. But the only other thing it could be a few years ago, ITV changed their regional news. You said maybe ten different regional news, actual places such. And then they grouped them together to make them obviously more cost effective. So they've only got, say, five different. So you haven't got London and the London south. You just got London now. Yeah. And Southeast and just got south south News as such, so. But with different transmitters, when you tune them in, can pick up news from different. On the same channel, though. That's what I don't understand. No. Impossible to do on the same channel. I think she must be slightly misled on that. You're a lot more gallant and diplomatic than I am. I don't know what time. We should have asked her what time wine o'clock was at home, shouldn't we? It's probably most of the afternoon. Probably two, three to about eight. Probably. No. I don't want to do her a disservice, but I'm going to give you a round of applause because I don't think it's possible for our television to be. What about when it's raining? Because, you know, my little girl rang in a couple of weeks ago. Depending on where area was, whether it's outside or on our roof or inside or possibly. She may just have to change the different possible she would have another BBC channel. So she may have like a saying, BBC London southeast or beach London. So I know qualifications, Tony, you've already had your round of applause, actually, but I should have checked first. I'll come another one if you want. I don't mind tvs and arrows and bits and pieces like that, so. Yeah, I thought you probably did. That's why you got the round of applause. But it's just the one, mate. Rewriting the rule book for anyone. Tony. Thank you. Darren is in Bracknell. Question or answer? Question. James. Carry on lots and know the origins of the quirky keyboard. Why they did where the cone keys go, where they go and that sort of stuff. I think it was I mean, I genuinely think it was, um, researched into the frequency of the use of letters. And that's what I told them. What the wife. But she won't have in none of it. So you want a more definitive answer, do you? That's what she said, yeah. Get on the James and find out. All right. Didn't you say, well, he'll only try and pass his pass to pass off his own answer anyway, that's what I tried. I tried a James O'Brien blag with him. Well, just go back. Go back to misses Darren and say, james says the same as me woman. Well, what more do you want? Did it. Let's see if it gets a round of applause. Well, there you go, mate. It's gone definitive. Leave it on. Scratch that round of applause. Why is the computer, the typewriter keyboard, originally so designed? I think I got it right, but I can't go definitive because I can't remember where I learned that. Professor Hal is here. I wonder which question he's going for. The qwerty op, the gravity, the decades on death row, the national debt or hunky dory? I'm going to go and say you're going to do the gravity question. I'm very excited by the gravity question. Are you? Yes. And actually, the original caller couldn't be more wrong. It's actually a very weak force. And you couldn't be more wrong as well. It's nothing to do with centrifugal or centripetal force. The fact is, it's the weakest of the four fundamental forces. And the only reason we feel the effect of the earth's gravity is because the earth is huge. Seven times ten to the power of 24 kilos, that's seven with 24 zeros after it. You're right. I know what to the power of 24 means. Power some of the other might not. Oh, all right. Ok. And it takes all of that just to make you weigh your 79 kilos and keep you down to the earth. So when you jump up and jump off the ground, you are momentarily defying the gravity of the earth. So it's a weak force. Ah. And that's why something very light and delicate doesn't. Yes. Bow. Exactly. And imagine two bowling balls together. So it's that simple. It's just not that strong. It's just not strong. No, exactly. You have to have massive, massive, a huge amount of mass to have a significant amount of gravity. So imagine two bowling balls a centimeter apart. They don't sort of snap together like magnets because gravity is such a weak force. Everything exerts gravitational field on everything else. So you are pulling the earth up as much as it's pulling you down. F equals gmm over r squared. Yeah, obviously so. Qualifications? Professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Professor hallucinate. Great work, sir. As always, 1238 is the time Steve's in tune. Question or answer, Steve? Question, James. Yes. Why do you not get the effects of carbon monoxide poisoning when you're cooking on gas? Because you never cook for sort of 12 hours on end, do you? Well, if it was to be in a room and your boilers in the same room, and then you have to have a carbon monoxide tester and if you wake up, you might have a headache or you might even wake up if you're. If you're unlucky enough to sort of be breathing in for long enough. But then when, say, Christmas time comes, you've got those, the door shut, it's cold outside, but you still, you still. I think. I think to get a carbon monoxide build up, you've got to have the boiler on for. That's what happens overnight. It's got to be on for hours. You very, very rarely use a gas ring for more than. I mean, the oven is ventilated and your gas ring is. Why am I trying to answer this, mate? I haven't got a Scooby doo. Yeah, nor do I. Sorry. You think you'd get some of the effects, like a slight headache or something? I know you get headache at Christmas when you're cooking dinner anyway, but I don't think that's linked to carbon monoxide. That's the eggnog. Yeah. Let's find out. Why don't. Yeah, because the gas boiler is what gives off carbon monoxide in a potentially hazardous way. So I presume. I mean, I have to be, right, surely. It's just that it doesn't give off enough to cause any problems. But I'll. Yeah, but I mean, if a boiler was leaking, it wouldn't be. You wouldn't be getting the full fumes, you'd just be getting a slight trickle coming out of somewhere where there's a leak. So if you're cooking on direct gas that's burning in the room with all four rings going, why don't you get any effect from it? Yeah, all right, you're on. I mean, I presume it's just because the carbon monoxide disperses enough. But then you want to know why it doesn't disperse when you've got a faulty boiler, which is fair enough. So we need the different mapping. I'll do that. Steve, you're on. Mark is in Walthamstow. Mark, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Tell me, how did everyone years ago to agree what the price of gold should be? Well, they haven't. It changes every day. But there is a price, isn't there? Well, yeah, but it changes every day. The price of gold is determined by how much anyone is prepared to pay for it on that given moment. Well, how was that done, then? Auction. Well, we go back to the. No, mate. This is how mystery hour started. You haven't been listening for. How long have you been listening to mystery hour? Since 1996. Have you really? Well, LBC. I haven't, no, because mister hasn't been around. I mean, I wasn't even here in 1996. That would have been quite an achievement. All right, so you're not a newcomer to mystery hour, then? No, but mystery hour started because we actually did an hour of phone in on why is gold valuable? And we realized that the world was full of questions to which we should, but didn't know the answers. And the answer to why is gold valuable? Was very simply because it was shiny and rare and people decided to make it valuable. And then a little attendant stuff on it being quite a useful soft metal, but it's not really that that useful. So gold is only valuable because it's shiny and rare, which means the price was never set internationally back in the day. It was set solely by how much you could sell it for. So if you had a lump of gold and you hawked it around the village, that gold is worth whatever anyone is prepared to pay for it, okay? It's the same as anything else. I sense. You don't think my answer is adequate, but it's the only answer there is. Time. Okay. Well done. Well, no, but you sound. You sound underwhelmed. I don't want you to go away underwhelmed. Well, if you go back to the elizabethan times with the Ahmad and all, that, was the price of gold all the same around the world. Or our price was varied to the French or the Spanish because we had coins then, so. So the coin and the content would be different everywhere, wouldn't it? I mean, the. The. That's too complicated. That's not what you asked. You say, how did everybody agree on the price of a piece of gold? I said, well, they didn't really. It's just whoever paid x sort of established what it was worth in that environment. And then on the other side of the world, someone might have been paying a fraction of x for a lump of gold. But as the world became increasingly connected, and the elizabethan era is a crucial milestone in that process, then, yeah, there'd be a kind of more international standard imposed, I imagine, officially, somewhere at some point, the gold standard was established, wasn't it? Oh, mate, I don't like this because I think we've got it right, but I'm like you, I sort of feel a little bit underdressed. I don't know that we've quite. I'm gonna have a round of applause, though. Well done, James. Thank you, Mark. 1243 is the time. Simon's in Orpington. Question or answer, Simon. Answer, James. Carry on. You're correct on the gold, by the way. Bonds, government money. It's owned by great big fund managers, great big pension funds, great big financial institutions who are holding it for what's known as the coupon interest rate that attaches to it. So I buy a bond because I've got capital. Usually I'm looking after somebody else's capital and a government bond pays a guaranteed interest rate. While you still owe me the capital? Yes. I mean, then you get the state of what happened in Greece recently, where the government was having to issue its bonds with a higher coupon or interest rate because the economy was in a mess. So to attract the money in, they had to offer better interest. This is where you get your triple a's and double a ratings on sovereign debt. Yes, of course it is. That's a good point. So it's banks, private banks and institute financial institutions, massive pension funds. I mean, the Church of England has billions in pension funds and that will include national bonds. Yeah, because they're a nice solid investment, a nice return, rather than going into riskier stuff, which is when you get into secondary bonds and then latin american and other stuff, which then trades on a secondary market at a reduced actual capital rate with no coupon, really. But you can buy the actual. So you could buy a million dollars worth of debt for half a million dollars, because it's only actually worth $0.50 on the dollar. And then you work on the basis that it might be worth 100 cents at some point in the future, but you won't get a coupon on it. That is called speculating. That's called the secondary bond market. I think I know the answer to this, but what are your qualifications? I used to be a bomb broker very nicely. But why aren't you a bond broker? Anymore. It didn't want me. The market. I used to work in kind of tanks overnight and we were surplus. The requirements, as in the need of the city. I'm afraid that is a dog eat dog world, Simon. Absolutely. At least you get more time to listen to mystery out. That's your round of applause. It's 1245, it's ten minutes to one and you're listening to LBC, where the mysteries continue. Although a few people have been in touch about the flashing light question that came up much earlier. And if you are still listening, mate, I presume you are, I think you probably should get it checked out. We are concerned also with why people spend decades on death row, with why the keyboard, the typewriter. And now, of course, the computer keyboard is arranged as it is, qWERty UEop being the top line rather than possibly alphabetical order. If you ever encountered sometimes at ticket machines at the station and stuff like that, it's all alphabetical. You spend hours. Hours. It's like you've forgotten the Alphabet. But then I suppose if you trained as a journalist. I didn't train as a journalist. But if you grew up with typewriters like I did, then you're more familiar with the keyboard. Gold. Valuable we've done. Why don't you get carbon monoxide poisoning from a gas cooker? I know the answer to that now, but I didn't remember it at the time, so we'll leave that on the board. And the origin of the phrase hunky dory. I never do this, but I'm going to make an exception on this occasion. I've tried phoning and I can't get through. This is from Mary. I'm very frustrated. Regarding the television question. This was Pip wondering why she was getting different regional news on her telly. I work for the BBC in news, says Mary, and it is possible that the ladies tv occasionally picks up another regional news program. Her neighbours will be having the same issue at the same time. If there's a technical problem in your area, that is in the studio most likely, or a problem with the feeds, I've even known power cuts and fires and presenters not turning up, etcetera, then the next closest regional news program will be sent to you. I hope that makes sense. I have never had that happen to me before, but Pip has. And I said I would apologize if the question turned out to be better than it actually was. And it has, so I do. Sorry, Pip. Jerry is in question or answer? Gerry, carry on to the quirky keyboard. Oh, yes, right. It is partly to do with being more efficiency to all the letters to be lined up using two hands. But the main reason is, remember the old keyboards of the old typewriters? They had hammers. When you press them, a hammer would go across and hit the paper. They were just. The quirky keyboard was designed so that when you hit the hammers, they don't get stuck, they don't interlock. So they keep the keys separate from each other, the hammers separate. So they must have. They must have done some quite complicated calculations then to work out the incidence of letters being next to each other on the page and making sure they were nowhere near each other on the correct happen, where the hammer would just connect with another one and lock. And it's not going to clash with the one next to it, it's going to clash with the one on the other side of the typewriter, isn't it? But they normally clash with the one closer to it. Really? Well, ert in a row. Ert in a row. And I think they occur next to each other quite a lot. Yeah. But I think that the way the old ones were, they. They were angled so that the. It was normally the clash with the arm or the hammer would normally connect. I know, you're right, you're right. They were arranged like that because if you didn't alphabetically, then you'd have had a lot more jams. You still got jams on typewriters, but you would have had a lot more. Exactly. Qualifications. Oh, no, I found this out. I used to work for civil service and I asked my typist, because that time they used to type everything, used to have a typing call. And I said to her, why is it set up that way? And she explained it to me and I remember that from years and years ago. Brilliant. And it's earned you this. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Steve's in Horsham. Steve, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I was wondering about flies. Do they sleep? And if so, where? Okay. Is that a mystery? Well, it is to me. Yeah, I suppose it is. I just mean they must sleep. Yeah, they must do. But have you ever seen. I mean, have you ever disturbed the fly while it's sleeping? How do you know it's sleeping? How do you know it was? I mean, every single fly you've ever seen standing still could be asleep. Maybe they just have little naps. Yeah, well, they move pretty quick if you go near them. Yeah. Never sleeping fly, actually. Because theoretically, if you've encountered a sleeping fly, you should have been able to squish it. And you can never squish, unless all the ones you've squished weren't actually dead. But what? All right, yeah, I'll stop speculating. How long have we got? Five minutes. You should have got on soon. Know. Do flies sleep? And if so, where do they sleep? That's actually two questions that you smuggled in, but you did it so subtly. I'm going to let it stand. Nails in Frimley. Neil, question or answer? Well, firstly, I've got corks, flies blooming sleep, and they sleep anywhere. There's your answer. That's two of them. Right. Gas cooker. No, mate, you can't. It doesn't work like that, Neil. Oh, I'm sorry. Well, I'm not for the gas. I'm for the gas. No, you're not. You've blown it now, mate. You've broken. You've broken the golden rule of mystery. You can't come on and start rewriting the rules, pal. You've got a jog on. And also, you can't mock other listeners like that. Ringing in like that. Sorry, Neil. Sorry, mate. Mate, good manners, you know, we'll have a scrap every other hour, 14 hours of the week, but this is all about being nice to each other. Jeff's in Bromley. Jeff, question or answer? It's a question, James. I'm going to answer the gas cooker question myself if nothing comes up between now and 1259. But what's your question? My question is whether there's going to ever be a 30 February, because, you know, the year is not 365 days old, it's days long. It's 365.2 something. Yeah. And every four years they add another day, but sooner or later, the calendar is going to go off a bit. Why? And, well, because it can't be exactly 0.25. Exactly. It must be off by some. I don't know exactly how long. I think isn't the answer to your question. If there was ever going to be a 30 February, there would have been one by now. Not necessarily. I think it would. Well, we added an extra second this year, didn't we, for the. For the reasons that perhaps you're alluding to. There was a moment. I'm wondering why there's 2028. I think. I think. I think it's just. No is the answer. But, I mean, how about the real question? Let's find out. Let's see how we go on with that. Really good question. I think it's rubbish. But sometimes. How about the best question in the world. No, I just didn't know, mate. And the applause went off. Charles is in Stockport, nice part of the world. Question or answer, Charles? It's an answer to the carbon monoxide. Oh, yes. Natural gas is methane. Ch four. When it combusts with oxygen, you get. The combustion products are carbon dioxide and water vapor. If you don't have enough oxygen, that is affair with it, you get carbon monoxide. So theoretically, you shouldn't get any carbon monoxide, but from a proper burn, for want of a better word, if it's burning properly, you won't get any carbon monoxide, which is why it's a faulty boiler that creates the problems that have been so well documented. You might get a small amount, but you can have flueless gas heaters, which use a catalytic converter to make sure that even if there is a small amount of carbon monoxide, you get it converted to carbon dioxide. Yes, I like that. The gas burner, because the flame is blue, everything's burning perfectly. There isn't any carbon monoxide, which is why you don't get any carbon monoxide poisoning. That's right. Qualifications around, just loads of science stuff. Round of applause. What have we got left? We've done that, we've done that, done that, we've done that, done that. Decades on death row and hunky dory. Is that all we've got left? Come on, get me hunky dory. At least before closer play today. Jerry's in bow. Question or answer, Jerry? Question, please, young man. Yes, yes, yes, yes. Bricklayer. All me life. When you build a wall to stagger the joints, when you get to the end, you cut a brick down the middle and it's called a queen closure, is it? Yeah. And then when you cut. But if you cut just a quarter of it off. Quarter the brick off, that's called a king closure. Right? No one in the building industry knows what I know of, knows why that was, why we call it a queen closure and a king closure. And this is because if you're going to layer bricks, layer will build a wall properly, then you don't put one brick immediately on top of the other. You have, on each different course, you have a different. A queen closure staggers the brick. Well, that's a phrase I was looking for. Well, crikey, mate, you've been a bricklayer all your life and you haven't found anyone who knows the answer. You've given me 34 seconds to find the answer. You're a clever man. I don't think we're going to get it this week. But I hate it when we get really good questions late at the end, because you probably won't remember next week. Bill's in St. Helens. Question or answer, Bill? No, thank you, Bill. That's it for another week. We don't know hunky dory. We don't know why you spend decades on death row and we don't know why we got queens and kings closures. I'll tell you what you could do. You could carry on this on Twitter, hash Twittermystria. If you can answer any of those three questions on Twitter, I will retweet them to my many, many thousands of followers. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from ten. I'm James O'Brien. This is LBC. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank.