How do they make sudoku difficult?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. I'm a bit of a doofus sometimes and there were a lot of people waiting to talk about the a level story, but of course, there were also quite a few people ringing in to get in early on mystery hour, because this is now your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. I mean, it's fairly straightforward. You should know how it works by now. All that's changed if you haven't been tuning in for a while, is that there's now actually a board game to go along with the radio entertainment and you can win one by being brilliant. I've been simply my favorite contributor to this week's Mystery Hour and you will win a brand spanking new mystery hour board game featuring my slightly old photograph of me. Actually, I look quite young and chipper, but anyway, it's all yours. If you are my favorite contributor, you can find the full terms and conditions at LBC Dot co dot UK. Find out more about the game at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK and if you're new to it, I think it's fair to say you're in. Well, you're certainly in for a surprise and you're probably in for a treat. Should we crack straight on? Should we just do it straight out of the box? Straight out the blocks? Yeah. You're not allowed to look anything up, that's all. So if you hear someone else ask a question, you think, well, I'll google that and get on the radio and win a game. No, my antennae for people who've done that, even when they know that they're not allowed to, is pretty well tuned. So there's no excuse for not knowing that you weren't allowed to do that because I've just told you, Seth is in St John's Wood. Seth, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Seth. These astronauts in space, particularly in the International Space Station, they stay in orbit for weeks, for months, and whilst they're there, their weight is very closely. Their health is very closely monitored from Earth. Yes. Including heart rate, blood pressure, all the rest. Now, the question is, how is their weight monitored? If it is monitored, it must be because weight is one of the key parameters when you go into the GP or go for your annual checkup they make. So when they stay for. We know that there is muscle wastage in space, there's considerable weight loss in space, but they're there for weeks and months. So how is their weight monitored in a state of weightlessness? I love the way you phrased that at the end. How is weight monitored in a state of weightlessness? That's philosophy. Is that philosophy or physics? Well, I used to love physics, but this has been bugging me. This question is bugging me now. How is weight monitored in a state of weightlessness? There's no gravity. So how do they know how much you weigh? That's a lovely question, sir. A perfect way to kick things off. Thank you. Thank you. Take care. Eight minutes after twelve is a time Richard is in Berkhamstead. Richard, question or answer? Question. It's a bit of a weird one. This is about freezing a loaf of sliced bread. When you say, did you hear the last. Did you hear the last question? Yeah. Right. How do you weigh yourself in a state of weightlessness? And now you've got a question about frozen, sliced. I mean, I'm teasing you because this is why I love mystery. Out we move, we segue effortlessly from a curious amalgam of philosophy and physics into a question about your blooming breakfast. Go on. Okay. There you go. When you take the loaf out, when you take the loaf out the freezer, you'll find that the moisture in each slicers leaks to the same side, each slice. And so that if you separate them, you'll see that one side of the. The slice is absolutely bone dry where the other side has got ice crystals on it. Well, all the way down the loaf. All the way down the loaf, yeah. On the same side. And you want to know why? My query. You want to know why? Well, yeah, I mean, be interesting, wouldn't it? Yeah. Well, Lord Copper, I. I just want to picture it. So it's, I've got a slice of bread and it's bone dry on one side and it's got frozen water on the other side. And that holds true all the way down the loaf. It's not, because the top slices has not got another slice next to it. It holds true all the way down the loaf. Yeah. You got it? Yeah. Okay. I'm not personally familiar that I've ever clocked that. It rings a vague bell now you mention it, but there it is. Okay. Well, yeah, I like that question, actually. Niall is in bridge, north Nile. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. So when I'm at home, I work from home. I need some music or some sort of background noise to concentrate best and focus. Now, some people I know need silence. So why is that? Why do some of us need music to concentrate best and focus. I've been. Yeah. Are you sure it's true? I mean, it's not. I mean, you really do notice if it's. If it's not. If you've got not nothing in the background, you can't concentrate. Yeah. Mine seems to wonder, and to use the phrase that science is a bit deafening in my mind, so having. Having a little bit of a tune in the background really does help. And obviously having the James O'Brien show in the background also just help, does it? It doesn't distract you? No, no, not really, no. So really you're just describing me as background noise here, Niall. White noise? Yeah, potentially. Okay. Well, you know, it's a living, isn't it? I mean, I'm fascinated in it. Your phone line's a bit clicky, so I'll take the question and thank you for it, but I'm fascinated by this because it's a parent. It's a parent child conversation as well, in that. Absolutely adamant that I can't revise unless I've got music on. And my dad was absolute mum would be absolutely adamant that. That's ridiculous. You can't concentrate at all if you've got that racket on in the background. And I've had the same with my. With mine, it's come full circle. I said, you can't be revising. That's not music, that's just noise. I haven't quite reached that stage yet, but I think. I think I recognise what Niall says, actually. And it means there are perhaps two types of brain. One that concentrates better with background noise and one that concentrates worse. Why Philips and Newport on the Isle of Wight? Philip, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. The ever increasing incidence of air rage. Do airlines sue guilty air rage passengers through the civil courts for the huge losses airlines incur following a plane being held up on the apron for hours, or worse, still being diverted mid flight to an unplanned airport. As in, I mean, I don't know, pursue the actual passenger for lost revenues. Absolutely. I mean, apparently it costs thousands and thousands of pounds. It must do. And I've been in witness to two incidents in the last twelve months, one involving. Yep. Gosh, come on, tell me more. Well, two women fighting on a plane at Gatwick, on the ground. They were both drunk before they got on the plane and they were still on the ground. And I put it down to the lack of staff around to supervise possibly drunk passengers, which takes us back to the Brexit situation. Bring it into everything. I hate people like you bringing Brexit into everything. It's so. I knew you'd like me. And the second incident was a man, mid flight, who clearly had mental health issues. And they were talking about diverting the plane to a strange airport. Right. Luckily, they didn't have to, but that would have cost thousands. Well, they wouldn't probably come after him if it was. If it was medical, it would. Rather than something that you could actually get prosecuted for. But it's an interesting. No, I mean, it's an interesting question. What did they do with the fighting women? Well, I don't know. They were removed and arrested. That's what I meant. They took them off the plane and then the plane took off. That's right. But it would be a huge deterrent if air rage passengers knew that not only could they be arrested, but they'd be. They could lose thousands of. Thousands of pounds to the civil courts. Yes. What recourse is taken? I shall find out for you, Philip. Thank you. I like that. I mean, up to a point, it would. It would be a huge deterrent, because these are not people who've sat there and run through the pros and cons of having a massive wobbly on. On a plane. And as you point out, as you remind us, there are almost certainly three sheets to the wind as well, which, history teaches us, doesn't necessarily make cost benefit analysis helpful or likely to happen. But, yeah, I mean, I think other passengers would quite like the idea as well, of the disruptive one getting a proper punishment. Kate's in Wokingham. Kate, question or answer? It's a question, please. When they set a sudoku, how do they know that it's going to be an easy one or a difficult one to solve? Because it's not about how many numbers they leave in it, because they can have the same numbers of leave in it because it's a really difficult one or a really easy one. How do they do that? That's a brilliant question, isn't it? I love that. Can a person do it or does it have to be a computer? Kind of. Did they do Sudoku? You're only allowed one. You're only allowed one question. So, a while since I've done Sudokus, I do the spelling b now and wordle and things like that. I do the more wordy ones. Is it. Is it. Are we certain that there's not just a smaller number of numbers in the boxes at the beginning of a hard one? No. I don't think so. No, I really don't think. No, it isn't. It's something else than that. Something other than that. Okay. You're 100% certain? You know, I haven't looked anything up, but I. But do you, do you do a lot of Sudoku? You do do Sudoku. You do do Sudoku? You do do Sudoku enough to have a proper palette of experience on this one? Yeah, I do. I do. Do I do. I should try to find out for you. I do do Sudoku. Colins in Orpington. Colin, question or answer? Hi, James question. Carry on. Colin, why is a kangaroo court called a kangaroo court? Oh, that's a good one. What it is is a court that has no sort of formal justification or official standing. But why kangaroo? Yeah. Even when I thought of it the other day, I thought, I mean, because I obviously don't know the answer and I thought, what could it be? One, I thought, is it anything to do with it being jumped up? That sounds a bit daft even. Obviously kangaroos jump. Yeah. And then the only other one was obviously, there's that story from. I don't know whether that was a true story where they supposedly hung a monkey in Hartlepool. That might be an apocryphal story, but did they in Australia end up doing something similar with the kangaroo? No idea. Anyway, kangaroos punchy like for no reason. Is that. No kangaroo? Well, they used to put them in boxing matches. No, I know they did. I know they did. So a kangaroo court would be like being up against. No, it's not going to work either. It's a good one this, isn't it? Yeah. I like it. It might. I mean, maybe nobody. Don't know. Nobody knows. Don't need to know. Might get filed under that. But if anyone does know, why is it a kangaroo court's the origin of the phrase really kangaroo court? Isn't it? Want to google it? I thought it would be better to find out on this program. Very nice. And of course, nobody else is allowed to google it either. We are celebrators of knowledge on this program. So kangaroo courts dedudu. Sudoku. Airplane diversions, music and focus frozen bread and weighing astronauts. It is 17 minutes after 12th mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1219 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. How do you weigh an astronaut in a weightless atmosphere? Why, when you take a frozen loaf of sliced bread out of the freezer, is the distribution of ice crystals. Identical on every slice. One side is dry and it's the same side. You understand that question. Why do some of us find it easier to concentrate with a bit of background noise or music, and others find it much harder to concentrate when there is background noise or music? And if I am currently your background noise or music. Boo. What happens to the passengers who are responsible for airplane diversions? Are they ever sued for the costs included? It might be covered by insurance, actually, Philip, we didn't think of that, did we? Sudoku. How do they know what's going to be a hard sudoku to do? And what's going to be an easy Sudoku to do? To do. To do. And what's the origins of the phrase or even the very idea of kangaroo courts? Ilona is in Chigwell. Ilona, question or answer? I have a question, please, jane, carry on. Ilona. My little girl Emily, actually wants to know if our cat doesn't know that she's having babies. So we thought we'll phone James and ask him. Well, not me. And the reason she wants to know is that the cat is still sort of doing everything she did before she was pregnant, like jumping off the greenhouse and jumping off the shed and rolling about. And my daughter's concerned about the baby. She's saying she must protect her. The baby, surely. So she's. Animals not know that they are pregnant? Oh, that's an interesting question. I mean, I think in terms of. Because we're comparing human to. To cat, really. And we're thinking that because human mums have to take extra special care when they're pregnant, then we presume that. I think Emily just thinks cat moms do, too. But they obviously don't. They obviously don't. They're just built differently. How do you know the cat's pregnant? Well, she's quite visibly pregnant. She's quite large and she doesn't seem to know that she's quite large. She's just carrying on business as usual. But they must know because they prepare a place to give birth, don't they? Often? Oh, yes, that's. That's a good point. So they must. Maybe the question should be, at what stage do they know? I don't know. Let's find out. Do cats know they're pregnant? And if. I mean, they know something's about to happen because they usually make a little nest, don't they? Or they go and go and sit some. They might just feel awful, Ilona. They might. I mean, you know, they might just feel really ill before giving birth and then a little kitten comes out and they're as surprised as everybody else is. Exactly. So, yeah, we don't know. No, let's find out. I'm very excited to phone James while she's on holiday. Fantastic. Well, tell her not to worry about the cat jumping off the greenhouse, because pregnant cats have been doing that since time immemorial. But we shall try and get an answer for Emily. Thank you. Thank you very much. Take care. And take care. Emily, as well. Look after your cat. 22 minutes after twelve is the time. Do cats know they're pregnant? And if not, how do. Well, yeah, the bit at the end. They do, don't they? They do that, don't they? They make a little nest or something. We've always had our cats neutered, so I don't know, I can't remember. Jenny's in Rochester. Jenny, question or answer? Good morning, James. It's a question. Please carry on. It's quite topical about Petrichor, that lovely snow after a long, hot spell, when it suddenly rained. Yes. And I'm wondering why we don't get that glorious Petrichor when we're watering the garden during a long, hot spell. Oh, so you're right. Coming up from the soil. Just trying to think. Interestingly, there was an item on radio four today, this morning, when they were talking about Petrichor. Come on here and start plugging the opposition. Oh, sorry. I'm sorry, you have to say something like a doctor from the Met office who's saying that they're looking. There's a huge amount of research into Petrichor at the moment, but some of what they've found out is that when it does rain, after a long, hot period, natural oils are released from plants, from dust and all that sort of thing. Wow. Which helps towards that smell of Petrichor, which was something I didn't know. No. So why can't we do it ourselves, then? Why can't we create it ourselves with a watering can or a hose when we're. When we're allowed to use them? Exactly. I like that. I mean, maybe you can and we just haven't noticed. Maybe it takes a real down. Do you get. You don't get Petrichor after a light shower, do you? Not so much. There's a slight hint of it. I think this is the answer, actually. It's going to be scale, because even if you've got your sprinkler on full pelt, it's nothing like yesterday's rain. No, we're here. We haven't had many heavy downpours. The first watering we had was very, very light and we had beautiful Petrichor. Oh, did you? Oh, okay. There goes that theory. The beauties of Rochester. Yes, indeed. It's also a beautiful word. It's not just a beautiful smell and a beautiful phenomenon, it's a beautiful word as well. It's the hat trick of beautifuls, isn't it? No, I shall agree. Well, I shall try to find out for you. Thank you, Jenny. Why can't you make your own Petrichor? 24 minutes after 1234-5678 questions on the board now. No answers. James is in Scarborough. James, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James, somewhere else. I went on holiday as a child, actually, I was just running through them earlier. Morecambe, Filey, Blackpool. Scarborough. Scarborough and Filey would be the same holiday, really, wouldn't it? Yeah, we're only down the road. That's right. And my uncle John had a little cottage in Filey. Had to put coins in the electricity meter to turn it on. Anyway, I digress slightly. Quick, what would you like to answer? I want to answer the one about their background music and distraction. Fantastic. So it's all to do with. With the dopamine pathway in the brain and for certain brains, if we take adhd, for example, as kind of the extreme end of the spectrum, where that constant need for dopamine, by putting on certain background noises, music, kind of distracts the brain enough and gives that reward of dopamine to allow you to focus on other tasks, while people that kind of have greater dopamine regulation actually find that distracting because they're able to concentrate and get their need of dopamine from the task at hand. Well, I never. Is it really? So. And that would apply to varying degrees across the whole population. It's not just relevance and neurodiversity. I mean, it is a form of neurodiversity, but you're describing, isn't it? And even to extreme cases with sleep as well, where some people actually, their minds start to wander because they're not getting enough dopamine by laying still and closing their eyes. So having background noises distracts the brain enough to go into that kind of sleep state. That's so interesting. I mean, I don't want to get too intimate about my own personal arrangements. Why would I find it much harder to sleep when I'm on my own? That's probably to do with safety as well. Sometimes. Particularly people that have trauma in the past, for example, even going into a new room. People sleep less on the first night than they do because the brain's actually. Which is when my wife goes away. When my wife goes away, if I wake up in the night, I find it much harder to get back to sleep than I do when she's there. But anyway, does it change as you age? No, definitely not. I'm in my forties now and I do have ADHD. I lecture in ADHD. That's how I know the answer. And I still. That's why I was working this morning with your cell phone in the background. Well, I'm very grateful that you were paying just enough attention to hear the question, James. And I think Wayne Rooney used to have a hoover on when he. When he went to go to sleep, he had to turn a vacuum cleaner on in the back. That would be the same reason. Yeah. Potentially, yeah. Brown noise is very good, apparently, to help you sleep. Fantastic. You've already told us, but I shall ask you again. Qualifications? A lecture in neurodiversity, specifically ADHD, and know, obviously, a lot about the dopamine pathway. Round of applause for James the first of the day. Thank you, James. Great job. Thank you very much. That's a really lovely answer, actually. Let's jot that. Nile's question, James's answer, Julia is in Virginia water. Julia, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. It is. Why is a hot dog called a hot dog? Hot dog. Can't believe we've never had that before. Usually when I say that, it turns out we have actually had that before. I'm just too old and doddery to remember why it's a hot dog called a hot dog. It's my son that wants to know because he's just about to have one. Is he? Yeah. What sort of sausage? A normal english breakfast sausage. No, no. Frankfurter. Yeah. You got him a proper frankfurter? Yeah. That's nice. I love a hot. Did you know, I bet. I don't know if you're. Where are you? Virginia water. Did you have any Hermansey Germans in Virginia water? Do we have any Herman's e German? I don't know. It was a little chain that had just started up before lockdown. Hermansee Germans. And they did bratwursts and currywurst. I mean, really delicious hot dogs. But they went under. They haven't reopened after lockdown. They haven't. Oh, what a shame. So I was just thinking, I'll have one. I have one after the show because you've got my appetite going. Then I remembered. I can't because Herman Zie German is no more. Oh, shame. These are just from the garden center. Lovely. Why. Why are they called hot dogs? The garden center? Oh, no, that's. No, there's a butch. Oh, hang on, hang on. It wants his lunch. It's all right, Virginia. I'll wait. I'll wait. Julia, go on. No, it's all right. The lad wants his hot dog, for heaven's sake. I'll give him his hot dog or I'll call social services. It was my daughter. Oh, I see. All right. Well, we shall find out. Why is a hot dog called a hot dog? Go feed your children, you monster. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Sometimes, I don't know if you've noticed this, sometimes I prolong the conversation because I think I know the answer and it might just pop into my head, which makes me think we possibly have had that one before. It's also made me Miss Herman Z German again. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 32 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Paul's in Swansea. Paul, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Paul. It's the hot dog. That was quick. Go on. I should be getting loads of calls about the hot dog, so I hope you get this right. Go on. It was german immigrants going to the States. They brought their meat with them and the sausages. Right. And the Americans thought, that looks like your german dogs. Dachshund. Really? Yes. I don't think that's true. Oh, I disagree. Well, obviously you wouldn't have rung in otherwise. I know. It's like the Germans. German butchers went. I mean, the dachshund isn't a particularly german dog just because it's got a german name. You're just as likely to find Chihuahuas in Germany as you are anywhere else. She probably. They didn't call it a hot dog because it looks like a dash and. Paul. Okay, that's corrected. If I'm wrong. Well, I just. I'm right. I think. I think it is as. As. As Julia's feared. I think it's because there were suspicions that it contained dog meat. Oh, okay. Oh, this is awkward. I'm not going to give you a round of applause. They didn't call them hot dogs because they look like, um, dashins. Okay, all right. Sorry. What were your qualifications? Now he's going to say, my great grandfather invented the hot dog and I'm going to feel like a. Right, Herbert, go on. No, I'm a chef and I love food and I love history of food. And you think. And you think you've heard this somewhere? Yes, definitely. I don't. I don't think it is. I don't think I've worked in Germany as well. I asked the Germans, why is it called a hot dog? And they said, it's like the dog, Daxton. Did they? Well, one German. You didn't ask lots of Germans. You just asked one German that, well, I used to live in Germany. I work in Germany. Yeah, I know. But you didn't ask many Germans why it's called a hot dog, did you? You asked one German and he gave you a tough answer. It's like a hamburger. Why it's called a hamburger. There's no ham in it. Because it's from Hamburg. Because the butchers were in the world Food fair in St. Louis and they were making hamburgers and they said. And they said to them, where you from? And they had a Hamburg. Hamburg, yeah. Yeah. And then the fellas over the other side of the hall were from Beefburg. I'm not giving you. I'll let you go. Thank you for Sean's in maidenhead. Sure. Question or answer? Answer, James. Very. Uncle Sean. It's an answer to the kangaroo court. Yes. So this one is open to challenge, I should say. Well, the entomology is, you know, it's been kicking around for years, but apparently it comes from the californian gold rush. A lot of Australians rushed to California in the 1840s and they claimed plots of land to mine on. And obviously some people have. Their claims jumped. Yeah. Claim jumping was often something that was tried seriously. Well, I know that everything you said so far is true, but this is not leading us to kangaroo court jumping, hopping, kangaroos hop and jump. So it was a claim jumping. And look, I mean, my sources, a fairly well known national newspaper. Right. You recall Donald Trump. Not the first time he's claimed kangaroo courts, obviously, but 2019, I think you're almost right. But I suspect it's got more to do with the fact that so many Australians turned up for the californian gold rush. That's what I said. I thought you said it was because they were jumping claims like kangaroos jump fences. When they came. When they. When they got to California and they claimed a plot of land. Yes. Someone else would come to California and claim the same plot. Yeah. And it was called claim jumping. Yes. So. So when you went to court over a claim jump, it became known as a kangaroo court. Yeah, but that. Because there's Australians. Are there? Yes. Right. That's what I said. Is it? All right. Have a qualification. And incidentally, by the way, incidentally, you owe me a game. What? You owe me a game. I phoned. Yeah, you did. I phoned in on a postcode question and you gave me and the other my game. And I actually thought the game didn't exist. I thought it was just a joke. I didn't realize it, actually. Well, that's Schrodinger's game, then. Because you thought it. That because you thought it didn't exist, you didn't get. It was a pretend game. How can I send you a game that you don't believe exists? Well, I believe it exists now. I saw it in John Lewis. Well, that's too late now. When you. When I. When we sent it to you, you didn't believe it existed, so it never arrived. I'll have to hold out hope that I come up with another banging on. I'll put you on the list. Did I honestly do this? Because I did miss a couple. It was about the biggest postcode in England. And I said it was in Venice. You've got a postman on. And I said. And he was part time. And I said, I'll defer to the part time postman. And you thought that was very funny. You said, you can both have a game. And I thought, oh, yeah, there isn't really a game. But I think you have actually, I mean, inadvertently stumbled into a philosophical vortex. I do think your failure, your failure to believe in the existence of the game actually explains why the game never arrived. So what did you think when you saw it in John Lewis? I thought, oh, right, it exists. How long had the game been out when you. I remember the call, but I don't remember the exact time of it. I don't go to John Lewis how often I, you know, middle class. So. Yeah, no, I was. But I mean, how long had it been out when you rang in? Good question. Don't know. Because, I mean, I don't go shopping for. No, but what I mean is how much. I mean, what. How long did you think I'd been lying about the existence of the game? I thought it was. I just thought it was like, you know, an Injun. Yeah, like a joke. Oh, you can. Some people think Keith doesn't exist. I'm wondering about whether Keith exists on Twitter. We've proved it, so. Yeah. So I just listened. I thought the next time I get on, I'm going to mention it? No. Fair enough. I'm going to consult my record. All right, but you can have a round of applause for now. I'll take. That'll do. Nice one, James. Thank you, Sean. Well played. Good answer. Wendy's in Glasgow. Wendy, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's in relation to the airline question. Oh, yes. If an airline has to make an emergency landing or land somewhere other than an airport that is not destined for, then, yes, the passenger will be expected to pay the full costs. If they don't pay the full cost, it will be taken to court and nine times out of ten they will be. The court will find in favor of the airline. Bone nearly always find in favor of the airline. What kind of got to do with landing charges as well, because if you're airline. I used to work in the airline industry beforehand and the airline I worked for arrived at Glasgow airport. If. I wonder if the same airline had to do an emergency, had to do a stop at Glasgow before it was due to land in Europe somewhere, then the landing fee would be smaller because that airline already landed into Glasgow airport. But if the airline didn't have a contract with Glasgow airport, for instance, then the charge would be higher. Okay. I mean, that's pretty well comprehensive. It also means as well, the airline as well has also got to incur the cost of the crew that are supplied to come on and deal with that aircraft, because the aircraft has also got to be refueled very often when it's at that airport. You've already got a round of applause, don't worry. What sort of price are they looking at? Oh, thousands. I mean. But you've got some numpty. A flight a few years back and we had to do just that. We were going. Coming back from Spain, we had to land in Nampton, France. Really? Because someone was kicking off. Someone was kicking off on the plane. Yeah. And it cost them. It went to court and it cost them over 20 odd thousand pounds, about 25, 28,000 pound. And they also get out with it. They also get out with a lifetime band. The airline is losing money while it's sitting on that ramp when it's not meant to be. So they've got to then wait for a slot as well. So it's the time that they're losing as well. As well as the actual cost of crew. All good. You've answered Philips. You've gone way beyond Philip's question. Actually, Wendy, you've provided an incredibly comprehensive answer. What are your qualifications? I think you've already told us. I worked in the airline for several years, for about ten years. And also you kept track of the numpty who disrupted your flight when you had to land in France that time. You followed the case. I won't mention it for legal reasons, but, yes, it was publicized in the press. Round of applause for Wendy, please. Thank you, Wendy. Great play. Well played. 1242 is the time. Olaf is in Penzance. Olaf, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Olaf. So, for your weighing astronauts in space, it comes down to the difference between weight and mass. So we talk about weight on Earth as if we're talking about mass and we talk about in kilograms, kilogram is actually a measure of mass, which is a fundamental property. So that doesn't change whether you're on Earth or in space or underwater or anywhere, really. So as far as I understand, we learned about this in university. They have a device which experts a known force on you and then measures your acceleration using, I think, an optical sensor. And if you know the force in the acceleration, Newton's law tells us that force equals mass times acceleration. So we just divide force by acceleration. F over a force over acceleration will give you the mass. That's right, yeah. So then the mass, if they know the mass, they can put the calculation on the earth's gravity and tell you what you would weigh if you were back on Earth. They could do the same with a bathtub. Could they? And displacement. Yeah. So it's the same principle. Effectively, your mass is constant regardless of where you are on earth or in space. That's actually quite a simple answer and almost obvious, but it was a beautiful question as well, and I really like the answer. What are your qualifications? I've just graduated as an engineer, so we learned about a lot of this. That'll do nicely. I mean, you know, I'd rather have had an astronaut. Olaf. Well, give me a few years. I'll be up there. Good luck, man. Seriously, have a round of applause in the meantime. That's a large course that's been still a lovely question. Slightly less oh, wow. Answer than perhaps some of us were expecting, but still a beautiful question. So that was Seth and Olaf. Dominic's in Tunbridge Wells. Dominic, question or answer? It's an answer. Or a second answer to you. So actually, it does come from. Hot dogs. Do come from dachshund, because in the 19 hundreds at ball games, the vendors used to shout, come and get your red hots, you dachshund sausages. And basically, there's a cartoonist who's called I think Todd Daugan, and he couldn't spell dachshund, so when he did his captions for the baseball games, he would call get your hot dogs, and it just kind of stuck. Where did you get this from? Sorry? Where did you learn this? Well, basically, I looked it up, not just now, but about seven, eight months ago when I looked at, because when I was wrong to the story, when John Kelly said, ich bien ein berliner, and he basically said, I'm a hotdog. So I kind of just went, I digged a bit more into the story, and that's kind of learned the origin of name. Why did you do that seven or eight months ago? Kennedy did that about 50 years ago. Sorry. I think the story was years ago, but it was, it just came up. So I'm quite bad on my right. Sounds good to me. I think that's earned you a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you. 1245 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1248. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We've done really well. We haven't got the frozen bed question. We've done the music in focus. We've done the airplanes. We haven't done the Sudoku question. I'm not happy with the pregnant cat or the kangaroo court questions yet, or indeed the Petrichor questions, but we have now finished the hot dog questions. Some suspicions out there that the. You're not allowed to look anything up. Rules may have been breached by. I'm not going to identify or specify by callers earlier in the program, but I would just remind you that everything must be taken on trust on this program. And trust is a wonderful thing. Andrew Zincrowed and Andrew, question or answer? It's a question, please. Yes, a Berliner is a doughnut, isn't it? Not a hot dog. Anyway, anyway, I digress. Carry on, carry on, carry on. We're keeping it on food. We are. It's about crisps, is it? I like crisps. That was quite partridge. I bet I like crisp more than you do. When did you last eat a bag of crisps? Uh, yesterday, so. But I enjoy a few packs a day. Okay, well, what, what you going for? What's your, what's your, what's your, what's your poison? At the moment? Uh, it's always McCoys. Oh, okay. Serious business, then. Fair enough. I've seabrooked. I've got my, I found a place that does seabrooks. Prawn cocktail. Now, which is my childhood favorite, and now I can buy it in London. I'm quite pleased about that. Anyway, where were we? Yeah, well, my question is really about the difference between the crisps when you get, like the nice 70 grams grab bag. Yes. And the multi packs. Oh, yeah. So I'll have a. You go between the two in the, in the crisp cupboard for the kids. Yeah. And I will always go for the 70 grams grab bag first because I am sure that the crisps are tastier, crunchier and better. But every time I say it, everyone laughs at me, but I'm sure of it. So I said, you want to know, is there a different line? Is it the same crisp? Is it the same crisps in the big bags that it is in the multi packs? I don't think it is, and I can't find the answer anywhere. I'm not surprised on the second bit of that. I mean, it's not yet a well established area of academic research. Is it going to be that you get a bigger crisp, a less broken crisp in the bigger bag? Well, it's not that much difference between those bags. It's flavor. It's really not crunch factor. Really? You think they actually taste better? It's not the fact that because a really nice, unbroken, round crisp just plays on the tongue better than for the same amount of crisp broken into four pieces, doesn't it? I think, well, no. If you get to the bottom of a crisp bag and you get those last few bits and you kind of dip your fingers in and it's really salty and, and you get real lot of flavor, you'll definitely get more. Just get more flavor throughout. That's the only way I can describe it to people. But that might be the amount of flavoring that's in the bag. Right. So, I mean, just. Is it the same crisps? Yes, I just, I just don't. I like the first one. When you take them out, you get that kind of, you know, when your cheeks kind of go, yeah. Oh, yes. Do I. Is there a different line? I would have thought my mouth actually watered then, because I. A full imagination of that first bite of crisp. I went for a McCoy. I haven't had McCoys for a while. I would go for the cheesy ones personally. You're a flame grilled steak man, I think. Andrew. I'm a salt vinegar man. Plain grilled steak, all of them, to be honest with you. What's not to like? It's a mccoy. I compare it to where I worked before, where we would have five packs, 30 packs and 90 packs of a particular product. And I know they all came off the same line. Yeah. But I just don't feel that Chris come off the same line. They've got a different one for the multi packs. There's a lot. I mean, there's quite a lot of support for you coming in via text. I completely agree with crisp man. There is a difference between the two. And Nate, who's in Torbay, says, I agree with the caller. Big bags have better flavour. Yeah. Let's find out. Yeah, well, it might be physics, it might not be chemistry, it might be that the bags, the bigger bags, something. I don't know, flipping out. Do you get different crisps in multipacks from what you get in big bags? Zero. 345-606-0973 Keiran's in Rotherham. Kieran. Question or answer? It's a question, sir. Carry on. So, vinyl players, we all. Well, most people know that a vinyl player is just like a needle with a small diamond at the end. Diamond. I'm sure it's a diamond. I might be wrong. It's not going to be a diamond, is it? Because that would cut everything. I know, but maybe it would. The more cocky I sound when I say things like that, the more embarrassed I am five minutes later when someone points out that the cooler was right and I was wrong. I could be wrong. But anyway, regardless of the fact, the question is, yes, it's. How does that, let's say diamond, for example. Yeah. Just by scraping in the vinyl, create the noise of the multi track recording? Because that's how it was recorded as well. Yeah. Well, what I mean is the actual process. So the needle. Yeah. So what you get is you get a wax disc and. Right. And you start playing your music. Yeah. And the wax disc turns around and the. And the stylus bumps up and down. Yeah. On a. Making the echo of the noise that it's hearing. And then you let the wax disc dry and you put it on a back on the spinning wheel, which has now got a horn coming out of it even before electricity. But you'd have been able to do this. You could have had a hand wound turntable and you put the needle on it and it reproduces the patterns that were engroved into the disc in the first place. And it goes up through the big horn and comes out sounding like music. It's never going to sound like it did in the room where it was. In the room where it happens, where it was recorded. Of course. What I mean is, how do these patterns hold this. Music. Hold this. Vibrations. Right. You're looking for someone a bit cleverer than me, aren't you, Kieran? Don't be shy. I like your comeback. I got fair play for that. But you want someone who is kind of answering it rather than just working it out. Yeah. As we go. All right, well, where are we? 1254. You'll be lucky. I've given you the best shot. I mean, that is what happens. But you want someone who explains it from a slightly more informed and knowledgeable sounding bass. How do record players work, essentially? Was this question and the crisps? Adams in Seaham in County Durham. Adam, question or answer? Hi, James. It's answer about the crisps. Let's go. Let's do it. Let's go. Right, what it is, the grab bags are a much, substantially larger bag. And so what's happening is the particles in the bag that create the flavor for your taste buds. When it comes to taste, about 60, 70% of it is actually due to the sense of smell as opposed to taste buds. And so the larger the bag, the more particles can actually get into your nose and stimulate your olfactory cortex. And so the smaller the bag, the less particles can do that. It's kind of the same principle with wine and wine glasses. The more nose something has, then the better the smell it is. So it's the amount of air from the bag that can actually get into your nose that causes a more intense flavor. I love it. So it's actually invisible crisp flavor. Yeah. Going up your nose. So if you were to. And in fact, he can do himself an experiment, can't he do a grab? We could use bowls. Ceramic bowls. Yeah. And see if he could tell the difference. Exactly. But when you're actually eating out of the bag or. Yeah. Or even switch. Get some plastic bags from, you know, the ziploc bags. Yeah. Stick some crisps in, all from a multi pack and stick some crisps in a different one from a grab bag. As long as they're the same type of crisps and the ziploc bags are the same size, there should be no differences. So, I mean, I love this answer because there is a difference in taste, but there is not a difference in crisp. Exactly. Whoa. Qualifications? I'm a senior lecturer in human physiology at the University of Sunderland. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Adam. Thank you. And, I mean, crisps make up a big part of the curriculum. Do they? Um, old fashioned does, yeah. No, I mean, I make. Love it. I love it, I love it, I love it. Thank you. John's in Derby. John, question or answer? It's an answer, James, carry on. It's the Petrichor question. Oh, yes. It's to do with the size of the raindroplets. If it's a small raindroplet, it smells a lot stronger. And the term Petrichor was actually coined by two australian climatologists in the 1960s. And it stands for Petra is obviously. No, I know that. Sorry, I don't want to sound. I knew that. I'm just interested in why I can't reproduce it with my garden hose. It's to do with the size of the raindroplets. So if I could. If I could. If it's very fine mist, then you could do it. You can do it. Yeah. And it's because it evaporates high into the atmosphere and then when it comes down, it's fine light rain. It's easier to smell. You can do it with larger raindroplets, but it's not as notable. That's beautiful answer. Round of qualifications. I read it yesterday. Really? Yeah, I read it in the newspaper. That'll do. Which newspaper? I think it was the Daily Mirror. Round of applause for John. Thank you. Roland's in Detroit, in Michigan. Roland, how are you? I've only got a minute. Make it sing. So, yes, it is a diamond. The diamond sits in the. In the groove of the record. There's only one groove per side. And the deeper the groove, the louder the music. Strawberry Sunday reunion qualifications dj of 30 years standing and promoter of the famous strawberry Sunday night in south London. Is that right? Thank you. Yeah. Round of applause for Roland. Yep. Hang on, Max in Brighton. Quickly, Max, question or answer a theory about sliced breads? A theory, yes. Oh, we haven't got time for theory. Sheila Fogarty's here now. Only got time for definitive answers. No, that's all right. Don't worry. I got to pick a winner anyway. I'm going to give it to Kate, who at the Sudoku, she didn't get an answer, but she can have a board game. Just because I thought that was a highly enjoyable conversation. And her deployment of high register sound effects when expressing surprise about something was utterly charming. So Kate gets the game. We've got that. Have you written that down? Everybody happy? Can I go now? Thank you. Sheila Fogarty's next. I agree about Kate. I was listening upstairs and I and my producer were going, oh, isn't she lovely? That's exactly why she's got the Kate as well. We're so glad. We're so glad she's got what she's got what she deserves. Yes.