Where are the whites of their eyes?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time, and there's always a little frisson of nostalgia for me on Thursdays when we are doing mystery out and there are by elections unfolding, because that's why we invented it. It's a way of guaranteeing, or as close as one can come to a guarantee that politics will not intrude upon at least 1 hour of the program or potentially problematic politics. Crikey, there's a little tongue twister for you that was unexpected, potentially problematic politics. Pictor Pepper. It's mystery hour. If you don't know what it is, sit tight. You'll soon work it out. If you do know what it is, then you don't need me to tell you that you're about to have a much more uplifting hour than we've managed elsewhere this week. If you've got a question that needs an answer, give me a call and someone else who knows the answer will ring in with it. The great news is that you can win a mystery hour board game and you can do so by being my favorite contributor of the week. It doesn't matter whether you're asking a question or answering one, or making a fool of yourself somewhere in between those two positions. You can find out more about it at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK comma, soon to be available in new outlets, including Argos, just in time for the Christmas rush. But you can win one by being brilliant today, or you can buy one by going to mysteryhour dot co dot UK dot. My mate Gary's little boy was playing it this morning. It was one of the first things I saw on WhatsApp when I got up a little picture of William, who just laid it all out. Although whether or not he had time for a game before school, I do not know. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Full terms and conditions are at LBC dot co dot UK dot. So it's LBC dot co dot UK for the terms and conditions on winning one. Mysteryhour dot co dot UK for very straightforward opportunity to buy one. Jeff is in St Albans. Jeff, question or answer? Hello, James. Good afternoon, Mike. It's a question. My question is, when you buy a bin for the kitchen and the bin liners, they're sold in litres. Yeah. And yet you never put water in them. No, but litres are not just. I mean, what else would you use, Geoff? Well, you can see how big the bin is when you go and buy it. How, if it's going to fit the kitchen or not. Yeah, but how much rubbish will it hold? As much as. No, but you don't. You don't. You're not. No, it's chicken and egg, Jeff. No, it's the egg. No, it's chicken and egg, because you don't. Buying the bin with liters on it is a consequence of buying bags that are measured in liters. But why would a bag be measured in litres? What else are you going to measure it in? What else are you going to measure? No, but that doesn't. That doesn't really work. Oh, it, James. No, it doesn't. Because you could have different shaped bins that take the same bag, because it's the amount of liters that they hold that you need to establish buying bags. But why liters? Because there's nothing else you could use. What else would you use? Tennis balls. Well, I think I might win the game for the silly expression by the sounds of these games. But do you see, though, because you've got a big empty thing and you need to know how much it holds. What unit. When you buy a saucepan, James, you buy it by the width of it. When you can see exactly how big it is too. And that should be. But you're never going to go out and buy a saucepan liner, are you? No, but the saucepan is sold in width. Yes, but there's only one shape. No, you can get. You can get all different shapes of that sort of thing. Well, but no, I don't. One of us is missing a point here, and I'm fairly confident it's you, but not. I'm not 100% certain of it, but I think it's. I think the point is that you can't think of anything else, any other unit of measurement that you would use to describe how much rubbish. Like a cost of coffee. Well, no, because you've got millions of different sizes of bin. I've got at least five different sizes in my own house. It's a volume. It's to measure the volume that something can hold. I think it would always be liters. It doesn't have to be liquid. But liters are liquid. Usually it tells you nothing, James, being in, to be fair, you buy 50 liter, being. It tells you nothing. Volume. It's a measure of volume. It tells you everything you need to know. No, it tells you it will fit in a 50 litre bin. Volume height versus width. What? No, because then you could have a narrow bin or a bigger fat bin that are the same height. I think, honestly, I'm getting increasingly confident that it's you that's missing something here. Right, I'll put it on the board. All right. Thank you, JD. But I'm not sure, even if we get a correct answer, I've got a sense that you're not going to accept it. Well, I will, James. I will accept. Promise. Talking about the Middle east, this, Jeff, honestly. Right, you're on. Let's find out why are bin bags and indeed bins measured in litres? But I think the answer to why are bins measured in liters? Is because bin bags are. So the real question for Geoff is, why are bin bags measured in litres? Matthew's in Red Hill. Matthew, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on, mate. James, you have to. Airports and seaports, train stations and bus stations. But why don't you have a train port or a plane station? Train port or a plane. What's the difference between a station and a port? Effectively. But why did we decide boats and planes are one and trains and buses are another? I quite like that question, I think. Well, originally it would have been international travel. Originally? I know we do domestic flights now, but ports. Ports would be boats. Ports. But you could have bus stations on the. Yeah, that's why. I'm not sure I like the question. That's my little reservation, Matthew, is that it might be a bit like saying, why do we call eggs eggs and chickens chickens? Do you see what I mean? They are two different. You know, a train leaves a station and a plane leaves an airport, a bus station. So if it's got wheels, it's a station, because something to do is stationary, that plane has wheels to land, otherwise it's gone a bit wrong. That's very true, actually, but it's not. It doesn't have wheels to travel. It's not going to work that, is it? The wheels. Let's forget the wheels. All right, I'll put it on the list. But I don't know why. So really, it's. Why is it an airport and a train station? What's the difference between a port and a station? Yeah, I like it. But I've got just a little fear that either there won't be an answer or the answer will render the question less exciting than it currently is. Thank you, though, Matthew. And speaking of exciting, Stephen and Gateshead has been in touch to point out that he says you've got how many bins, James, does Rishi know? I've got two bins that take bin liners. So, to be clear, and one of them is in the garage and the other one has got a little recycling drawer underneath. But then we've got bins in all the other, you know, like waste paper baskets, which sometimes there will be little liners in, but not. Not like in the bathroom or such. So, yeah, I don't. I'm not. I don't want to be. I don't want to steal seven bin Sunak's title. I don't want to become seven bins. Gym. Martin's in Gravesend. Martin, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So I've got a cat who's a tabby cat who's got lots of different colors in her hair. When I brush her with a brush, all of the fluff comes out gray as one color. Why is that? I think it might be the same reason why the fluff in your belly button is blue, that's why. Would that be? Because I wear blue blue clothes? I don't know. Just trying to think of a parallel so you. So that you don't. Every hair looks similar, does it? It looks the same. You've got a gray clump when you clean the brush. Yep. It's all exactly the same when it. When it comes out, but when it's on her coat, it's all obviously a tabby color, so you would expect to have distinction. So if you go to the hairdressers and you get to my stage of life, you can see on your tunic that you wear, you can see some grey hairs and some normal coloured hairs, can't you? You can see. Exactly. Whereas your cat, it all comes the same. Have you separated any of the hairs or are you just confining it to clump examination at the moment? In fact, I had to do it recently because she got a fair few clumps in her. In her fur. So I've been brushing her quite a lot lately, but. And having to cut a couple of bits out. Well, when it all comes. Comes out and it's all the same color. Well, that's an interesting question. I shall find out for you, Martin. Is she all right? She's all right now. She's got. She's been declumped. Yeah, she's all fine. She's getting a bit old now, but, yeah, we've got one of those as well. Do worry about it. Anyway, mind how you go. Why is a tabby cat, which clearly has lots of different colored fur, when you brush it, all the hair that comes off is grey. I just thought of a possible answer to that, actually, but we shall see. James is in Inverness. James, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. So, it's a musical question this morning, and it's about vibrato. So in the voice, in the human voice, particularly in singers or in opera singers, there is a vibrato. On the voice, and in certain instruments, stringed instruments, particularly, there is vibrato. Now, the musical note doesn't create that noise naturally. It's a straight note. If you play the note or you sing the note. So why do we have vibrato on a musical instrument? Where did that. Where did that come from? What was the purpose of it? Is it just acoustically sound or. But that was it. But why wouldn't we have it? Well, it's not a natural sound. If you pull the bow across a cello, for example, it makes a straight note. So you have to manufacture the sound. Is just someone who. Someone discovered it and decided, that sounds nice, and then played it to his mates, and they all agreed. And now it's become part of the musical lexicon, as it were. But not all instruments have it. So you can do it in all instruments, then you don't. I don't. I don't quite get the question. I'm probably being a bit dense, James. No, it's. What's the purpose of. What is the purpose of vibrato? What's the. What's the reason for it? Is it just a nice sound? Or where did it come from? Or what was it? Was it part of a musical discovery or whatever? But it's just, you know, if you look at opera singers, for example, they have a particularly strong vibrato, and other. Other pop singers don't, for example. So they might do. They're just not. They're just not really required. Some do. Tracy Chapman. Yeah. And also, do you remember Jim Diamond? I could have known better. As beautiful as you. It's from your neck of the woods, isn't it? Yeah. So what's the purpose of it? I just think it sounds nice. Do you think so? Well, I'll put it on the board, but I'm just. I want to manage your expectations, James. All right. Because I don't know that. I don't. I don't know that it's. It's. It's. It might just be one of those things that just eased. You know what I mean? There'll be some musical geniuses. There might be. So exactly what is the point of it? Is that what you're asking? What is the point of the vibrato? The vibrato? Okay. All right, you're on. Oh, yeah, I like. Well, I like it, but I don't. But I'm just managing your expectations. It's 12:15 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 19 minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is underway. Why are bin liners sold with volume? Jeff's in for a bit of a shock, isn't he? I mean, rucksacks. I was thinking, some of you have pointed out that, as Nicholas has said, I've often wondered that about rucksacks and also garden centers. You buy compost and things like that in litres, don't you? So, I mean, I think we know the answer, but I'm not sure Geoff's going to accept it. Why do trains have stations but aeroplanes have ports and aeroplanes and boats have ports? Why does Martin's cat only shed grey hairs? Or at least, why does it appear that all the hairs are grey, despite the fact that the cat is a tabby? And what's the point of a vibrato? I can't do that without sort of taping my throat like that. I can't do it normally. No, I have to say, that just looks ridiculous. I could never be an opera singer because I'd have to sort of fiddle with my throat like that. So, anyway, what's it all about? Vibrato ian's in Warwick. Ian, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Airports. Airports are basically, I feel, to have full time customs facilities, that they migrated from the early years of seaports, where customs officers were at hand all the time, basically. And when airports came to be or airfields came to have customs facilities, the customs officers would have migrated from the ones who were originally at seaports to airports. So ports have customs facilities? Traditionally, yes. And that is why they're called ports. Correct. And stations generally don't, even though they might do now. Yes, that's probably true. Yep. I like it. So, is it. Is it anything? So, passports. That's where the chicken and egg element comes into it. What came first, the port or the passport? Good question. It is, isn't it? Brilliant. But I think you've answered Matthew's question in that it was to do with international travel effectively, but specifically the need for customs to check that there was no smuggling going on or inappropriate ingress into countries. Yeah. You can also have air drones that have custom facilities on a temporary basis. Aerodromes, of course. Yes. Where they're called in and you can identify those. You'll find it all their air traffic control. Yes, yes, yes, yes. So if it's a place where people keep their planes and have little, like, go for jollies and then fly back again. That's an aerodrome. No, that might be an airfield or an airfield, but not an airport. No, because it doesn't have customs. Well, what a great answer. Qualifications. What are your qualifications, Ian? Ex private. Pass. License. Next. Air Force. Well, there you go. That's fantastic. That's two. Two X. Air Force. Today we had you and we had the bloke from James as well. Round of applause for Ian waiting for the property roll. Say again? I'm keen to see your book when it arrived. Oh, well, that's very kind of you, Ian. It's phone line. I just got through the dodgy phone line on that. November 2 is the date for the new book, which I. It's a week today. It's a week today. Oh, my days. How exciting. Thank you, Ian, for reminding me. God, you think I've been plugging it mercilessly previously. You wait. You just. You wait until. What's going to start now? Two weeks today. Two. Two weeks today. Two weeks today. Do you know why I thought it was a week today? Because I'm on holiday next week. I'm off next week. I've just. Somehow, in my mind, I've removed that week from professional existence. That's ridiculous. Jay's in Croydon. J, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Okay, so to the bins. Litres question. Yes. The reason why is because liters are, as far as I'm aware, is an SI unit. So one litre atmospheric sea level will occupy the same volume no matter where it is. Yeah. You can't. You can't compress water simply. That's why hydraulics work. I think you're right and I think your answer is relevant, but I think that Jeff is. I think he's sort of in a slightly different universe from you and me, Jay, because it's not. It's not because you and me, we're sort of explaining to him what litas are. Yeah. And why it's a helpful unit of measurement. Yeah. That's not confined to water. No, that's it. But he wants to know, why are bins measured it. Why bins, though? They just are. Well, that's what I thought as well. It's just because, I mean, most things are measured in. When you're talking about volume, you tend to use liters because literally, it's an SI unit. It's not. You can't change what one litre is in terms of volume, it just is what it is. And the shape doesn't matter either. So you might have an octagonal bin. Exactly. Or you might have a very long and narrow bin, but the amount that it will hold is what you need to know, not how tall it is or how fat it is or anything like that. That's it. That's exactly it. So if you've got 1 meter by 1 meter by 1 meter of water, you've got one ton of water. Exactly one ton. Whereas if you had a ton of bricks, a ton of bricks is going to be a lot less volume than a ton of feathers, guys. Volume, yes. A lot less volume than a ton of feathers. So there. I mean, it is actually. I mean, it's actually. The more you think about it, the more bloody obvious it becomes, doesn't it? Yeah, but I've just. I've got a feeling Jeff's not going to be happy. I just think he's somewhere. Somewhere Jeff is thinking to himself, that's no, but why a bin? And the answer is because there's no other blooming way of doing it. That's why I said the thing about tennis balls. Yeah, that's exactly it. What about cubic centimeters? Why don't we do it with cubic centimeters, for example? You could do, couldn't you? I mean, you could, you could. But then if you were to say a bin is sort of like, you know, 30 cm by 60 cm by 100 cm, there's a bit of a mental jump for a lot of people. Yeah. It's just 20 liters, you know. Yeah. You know what 20 liters is? You know, it's half a 40 qualification. For example, used to be a bin man and now I'm an engineer. That's one of my favorite qualifications of all time. Oh, I love that. Massive round of applause for Jay, please. Beautifully done. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. I'm not sure that that is actually a qualification for knowing why bins are measured in litres. But in another way, it's the most perfect qualification of all, isn't it? Yeah, I mean, well, I mean, now I'm an engineer, I fix washing. That's what I thought you were gonna say. I thought you were gonna say something like that. Oh, I love it. Thank you, mate. I can't. Blimey. We do a guarantee, don't we? I always forget these days, I used to always do a guarantee at 12:00 that you'll have at least one laugh out loud moment before between twelve and one. That one made me laugh a lot. What? My rib is better. Thank you for asking. It's still not right. It is a bit. But that first week, that was murder. Absolute murder. I had painkillers all that week. And then by. By last Thursday it was all right. It was okay. And now it's just when I wake up, it's wake up in the mornings. I realize that's why they called that program only when I laugh. Do you remember that? Are you too young for that? Probably. There used to be a wonderful comedy program called only when. I've got quite a good showbiz anecdote here that I could share with you if you're in the mood. So only when I laugh was set in a hospital. I think James Boland was in it. And I think the theme tune was I'm h a p p y. I'm happyi may have got that bit wrong, the theme tune, but don't sue me. So I interviewed Dudley Sutton once who played Tinker in Lovejoy, but he was an absolute legend of british stage and screen and he was also a fairly heavy drinker back in the day and part of that wonderful sort of Soho bohemian crowd. And he told me a story that just stayed, which just tickled me so much, is that he was. It was between jobs at one point and phoned his agent. He saw this thing come on, the telly called only when I laugh, this hospital set drama. And he phoned his agent to complain that he hadn't been in it and said, why can't you get me a role in that? And his agent pointed out he had actually been in it, but he'd been so drunk that he'd completely forgotten and you would never have known it from his performance at all. But it was just one of those old school soho storytellers that I'm not sure we'll ever see again. 27 after twelve is the time Elaine is in Richmond, up on Thames. Elaine, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, Jane. Carry on. It's about vibrato. Oh, yes, it's about vibrato. Because I am a singer, jazz singer was a West End performer and I run a singing organization. And it's a question that's asked a lot. Is it? So I was wrong to tease James about the ridiculousness of his question then, really. I have people in my courses all the time saying, why is my voice not like hers? Why does she had that lovely wave in her voice and I don't have it. Yes, there is a way of teaching it. Is there. Would you like me to demonstrate a non vibrato, little bit of something, and then a vibrato to show you the difference? I would love you to. It would be rude not to, I think, now. No, no, no. I think. You don't have to. I was just going to give you an example. No, I want you to. I want you to show me the difference. Yeah, absolutely. You're not going to break glass or anything like that, are you? Oh, God, no. So, you know, fly me to the moon. Fly me to the moon. You know, that's not. Let me play amongst the stars. Yes. Yeah. Okay. So I'll sing it without vibrato. Okay. Yeah. Fly me to the moon and let me play amongst the stars. Okay. You've got a beautiful voice. I haven't. I have not like that. I don't think I have. Just in terms of being tuned. Thank you so much. Thank you. So that was to demonstrate it was in tune and it was the melody of the song, but it has no wave in the voice. The wave in the voice is something, both in instruments, in the voice that seduces people and they like it more. And it's a waving sound and it goes through your body and you can develop it. Some people don't have it and can develop it. Some people have amazing vibratos. So I'll sing a little bit with a vibrato, the way I would sing it more. Yeah. Okay. Fly me to the moon and let me play among the stars let me see what spring is like on a Jupiter and Mars. Would you like to come to one of my lessons? I think. I think I'm beyond. I think I'm beyond your reach. I don't think. I think I feel you not. You were pretending not to singing. I really wasn't. Let me see what spring is like on a Jupiter and Mars. I did a bit of vibrato for you at the end there. You know the other funny thing, James, I must add that, you know, certain nationalities. Yes. Have a vibrato that's much faster. Like Nana muskuri. Oh, yes. Now, that's the question I get asked more than anything. For example, la Villan Rose, when you heard that thing by Pierre. You're right. Or french singers, that's something that they grow up hearing and they develop it as a style. Well, I never. And it doesn't exist in most voices in this country, but in other countries it does, ethnicities it does. And it's sort of cultural and learned. And so the answer is that it is easy on the earth. The answer is that it's nicer to listen to. People generally think so, but there are exceptions. For example, Sting. No vibrato. Yeah. Message in a bottle. He has no vibrato, but people love his voice. I love his voice. I love his voice. So I would say you can grow it. It's oscillating your vocal folds and I can make it bigger and smaller and it's a wave of your vocal folds. Yes. But. But you are. You generally grow up with some vibrant. That's the voice question answered. But the. But the instrument question is just the same. It's just been discovered that manipulation of the strings or something in most audience members or most listeners or with most pieces of music, it creates a simply a more pleasurable listening experience. And it evokes the flow and the wave in it evokes something primeval in you, I believe. Yeah. I wonder why that is. And my base player in my jazz trio plays with a bow and he plays both a traditional big bass, but he plays with a bow and he. Yeah. And waves his finger across to make it absolutely wavy. And people just go, ooh. In the audience, so it's emotional. Shivers. Yeah. Oh, that's glorious. Have you got any gigs coming up that you'd like to mention? Oh, yeah, please. Okay. The bullshead jazz club in Barnes, which is one of the oldest jazz clubs in Britain. I know it well. It's next to the chippy. Yeah. We're called jazzish and we're there on the 28th. We're a jazz trio, piano, bass and vocals, and we sing all styles and genres and we bring them towards a jazzish feel. It's the 28th coming up. Not this Saturday. This Saturday after. At 08:00 come and see us. Thank you for that. No, thank you. And I can offer you a round of applause as well. Oh, how lovely. Oh, you're very welcome. That was amazing. 1232 is the time. Amelia Cox has your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1236 and you are listening to LBC with James O bin liners where mystery hour is underway. We've done the volume question. We've done the voice question. We're just the cat fur question. We've done the port question. Why does Martin's cat shed when he brushes a tabby cat? A multi colored cat? All the fur that comes off the cat is grey. Means we've got room for more questions. You've mixed it up a bit today, haven't you? You putting the answers on earlier, trying to sort of. I like it, I like it, I like it, I like it. David's in Leamington spa. David, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. It's a question. It's to do with eyes. Why, as humans, are the whites of our eyes visible or always visible? Didn't this come up quite rip? Well, you obviously didn't hear it, because you wouldn't have. Didn't we do this quite recently? Did we've been that long? So you could be right. I know. I thought. Did we not do the whites of their eyes, like, in the last six weeks or something? Is it only humans, only mammals. Only humans have whites of their eyes on show? No. Everyone's looking at me blankly. I think I may have just had one of those weird deja vu moments, David, that never happened. So. Yeah. How many animals have you checked? Well, I can't remember seeing an animal where the whites, the eyes, are visible. I mean, look at my dog, for instance. Yes. If it's looking straight at me, the whites aren't visible, obviously. If you look at an angle, then, yes, they are. But it just seems that all races of humans, you can see the whites of the eyes, but I can't think of an animal wearing a sort of resting position. You'd see them. No. So why have we evolved in that way? Or what's the benefit of that? The strangest sense of familiarity? We will find out. I will find out for you. Why is it only us? Thank you, David. Bizarre sense there. It's a good question, though. Why is it only us that have whites visible eye whites. 1238 is the time. Dave's in Retford. Dave, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Dave. I wanted to know if identical twins can be different handed. Oh, yeah. So do I now. That's it. I do. Why do you want to know? You may or may not remember Captain Caveman. That's vibrato. Is it, captain? That's vibrato. That was a really good example of a vibrato in a voice, though. I could have done Captain Caveman instead of humiliating myself by singing. I do remember. Captain Caveman, of course, just demonstrated. There was an episode in Captain Caveman where they figure out who the villain is by the fact that one of the twins is left handed and one is right handed. Is that right? And you want to know whether that is genetically sound. Yes. Or feasible? Yeah. Yeah. Well, you're on. I should find. I love that. I very rarely ask people why they want to know the answer to the question that they've asked, but I must have been a bit of inspiration there, Dave, and I asked you and Captain Cave was a perfect reason for wanting to ask a question, to find out whether or not a plot line in Captain Caveman 30 years ago was scientifically accurate. Yeah, it's just that the kids have been watching it. I've got. I've had them on DVD, so the kids have been watching it, that's why I've seen it recently. Oh, lovely. I don't remember it from 30 years. Do they like it? They do, I say, yeah, they do like it. Is it Hanna Barbera? I think it isn't it? I think it is. 1240 is the time I met Joseph Barbera. I'm doing all my show, Bosanna Jones today. It's all kind of bit variety club, hasn't it? I'll stop now. Helen is in Bromley. Helen, question or answer? Answer, James, carry on. Sorry to you. Rubbish. It's about bins. Well, I thought we dealt with that satisfactorily. I thought Jay provided a very good answer. He gave an answer of what volume is, but as you said, I don't really answer the confusion of your why is a bin measured in litres? Why is a bin Laden. Go on then. A bin is measured in many ways, but what we're measuring with liters is its capacity, how much it holds. I also need to know its physical size, I need to know its height, its width, its depth, to know how it fits in my kitchen. Yes, but not the bin liner. The bin liner, because its so malleable, is unless youve got a mad bin thats shaped like a scaffolding pole and you have to cut up all your rubbish into tiny little bits. But unless youve got a mad bin, then a bin liner of 20 litres is going to fit in any 20 litre bin. Yeah, but that 20 litre bin might be twice the size because it might be thicker, it might have a pedestal on it. No, but the bit that the bin liner goes in is just volume, isn't it? There's nothing else you can measure in. I could scrunch the bin liner up to the size of my hand. Yes. That size doesn't help anyone, does it? No, but that's not going to go in a bin when it's the size of your hand. Exactly. The only thing you can measure is. So you're measuring its capacity. Volume which is different from its size. Yes, volume, yeah, but size is a volume as well. Well, volume or capacity, it's volume. Volume is how we measure it. The capacity is how much it holds. Oh, yeah. Okay. Well, I think I understood all this. What do you think was missing from the original answer? I don't think it was tennis. It's tennis balls. It's tennis balls. So Jeff didn't understand when I said, you might as well use tennis balls. It's the only way you can measure capacity. I think the difference, though, is it's. I think he's thinking about the size of the bin as well. Yes, but that's why he's getting confused, because the only reason they tell you the bin in liters is because of the capacity. Well, he also bought up pans and now you can see it. Yeah. We don't need to bring pans into it, do we? It was a ridiculous thing to do. As if you buy a pan according to. According to. You do see. And on a pan, you do see the capacity that it holds. But it's wix. But it's wicked. There's been a ten inch pan that holds two liters and a ten inch pan that holds four liters. I need both measurements as consumer. Not with a bin liner. Not when you're buying a bin liner, you don't. But he started with bins. Yes, I know he did. And the bin, I suppose, allows the pan point to be brought into the conversation. But it's the central question, as you point out. A round of applause for Helen of capacity. I think we can all spare a thought for Anthony here, who says, my 60 litre bin is too wide for all of the 60 litre liners and it drives me mad. I have to use black sacks, says Anthony, and we feel his bin pain. Nick's in Pearly Nick. Question or answer? It's a question. Yeah. Now, I listen every Thursday and I'm worried your listeners might think I'm a bit sick because I think people might know this and think what? Anyway, basically, I guarantee you'll be okay. Right. Basically, on my jet washer, when I want to jet wash the passenger, I already love this question, which is coming from my hose, which comes out. I already love this question. Terribly slowly. It does a dribble, really, but. But the jet washer comes out forever. Incredibly high pressure. Bloody mystery is what it is. And. And if it was pulling from something that hadn't got much water, surely eventually it's. It goes a faster pace. It would just run out of water. Exactly. And even if it's sucking from the hose, the hose would eventually run out of water because it's taken from the main at the run at the top of the hill. Yeah. Oh, by the way, congratulations to dorking. Begrudgingly. I got kiddimensure at dorking two weeks ago. It was only a cup game, wasn't it? But thank you. Oh, no, it was a league. I was thinking of you. The dorking game. Yeah, of course it was a cup game last season. It's the one that I went to. No, thank you, Nick. Yeah, it was. I didn't enjoy it. Touch wood. We've turned a corner. Touch wood. So just playing fine all season, we just couldn't score goals. Oh, no. And I've also just finished how to be right when you're wrong. And that's the second best book I've read this year. Second only to Rory. Rory Stewart is the best. Well, I'm told that Rory and Alastair Campbell have just plugged my new book on their podcast, so I will allow you to put me into silver place position on this occasion. Well, you did the podcast, Rory, about two years ago. Probably haven't won again. Yeah, you should have one again now. Because he changed. He was on the show. You only listen on Thursdays, don't you? So he was on the show about a month ago. I listen when I can, all right? But I can't always listen. The bottom line is, why can it come out of that? Why does the water pressure do such business when the tap is rubbish? When the tap is. Well, I think I know this well, that's why. Because I thought everybody would know it. No, no, no. It's. I've only. I've. Because I have thought about this also. Do you know, I never remember questions that I want to ask myself on mystery hour. But how? Because what water pressure in the house we live in now is fantastic. And in the last house, it was not fantastic. And I don't know why. I don't know what the difference is, but that's not the point. Here's what I think happens. There's a reservoir in your. This does. I don't think this is going to work. There's a reservoir in your water pressure. In your water jet. Jet washer. Yeah, but that's great. So it fills up and the pressure goes backwards into the tap. I think it pulls from the. That's where. That's where it all falls apart, Nick. Because that was. Makes no sense. Do you know what I think it is? No. Magic. That's not a legit answer. Because my brother played your game last Christmas. They all had a row because they didn't accept the answer, or some of them. Didn't. Some of them didn't. Well, I'll tell you what. Give me a ring if you want me to adjudicate next Christmas. I'll give you my private mobile number. I'll give you my mobile number. I don't want any. I don't want any family breakdowns over the mystery outboard game. No, we just sold. That was fine. Not this Christmas. I will find out for you. So, just to make sure everyone understands the question, if they haven't got a jet washer, you turn on your tap and the water is coming out at a very unimpressive rate. The pressure is not great. It wouldn't knock the skin off a rice pudding. And then you plug in the hose to the tap and the other end of the hose to the jet washer and you turn it on. So there's electricity there as well. That's probably relevant, isn't it? And I'm sure it gives it power, but. Yeah, exactly. So. But then you turn it on and you pull the trigger and it comes out like. Well, you know, like nobody's business. It wouldn't just knock the skin off a rice pudding, it would knock the whole bowl about four gardens down. It can injure your legs, especially when you forget it's a jet. Be very careful. Very. You can't mess about with jet washers, Nick. No, no, I've gone down to the bone one. You've got the scars to show it. You went down to the bone? Yeah, well, I was just cleaning because my leg was dirty and so I. I cleaned it and I forgot. Just a hose and it was all. It wasn't very nice. I might talk about it. No, I don't want to talk about that anymore either. I just crossed my legs for some reason. I'll find out for you. Nick, great question. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1251, and you are listening to James O'Bin liners on LBC. Thank you to whoever sent that joke. And thank you to Anthony as well, who said, what a brilliant show. You've really cheered me up. Thank you. Cheered myself up today, actually. And the callers have cheered me up. It's all reciprocal. It's gonna be hard to decide who gets the game. And it's not over yet. Losing Stoke. Lou, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on. Identical twins. Yes. They can be different handed captive. Sorry. Beautiful. That was. Thank you. Beautiful. Thank you. Yeah. No, so identical twins can have different hands. They can also have different fingerprints, and they can also have different palm or foot is there mirror. Mirror twins are a thing. Are they? You can have mirror twins as well. They're identical. Where they tend to have, like. I don't know if it's real, I've never met one, but, yeah, there is twin mum to identical twin girls with different hands. No, both laughs but you've looked into it? Yeah, I'm sad like that. No, he's not sad at all. Must be interesting to have twin. Twin daughters, twin children. It's sort of enduringly fascinating to the rest of the population, isn't it? Yeah, I think it'll be interesting when they hit teenagehood. Yes. They get on brilliantly at the moment. Do they? No, they argue. Terrible. That's parenting, that is. I think, in my experience. Heaven forbid somebody should pick on one of them, though, because they're best friends, then that's what you want. Round of applause for Lou. Thank you. Beautifully done. Thank you, Lou. Abbie's in Tunbridge. Abby, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So, basically, the bloke that was brushing his cat, and it was the multicolored cat, but he was only getting grey hair out. Yeah. That's because he was brushing the undercoat out, which is grey. So when your cat, he wouldn't be brushing that, the multicolored hair out. What he's brushing out is his cat's undercoat, which is if he looks underneath the hair, there's going to be a really short coat, which is the undercoat that keeps their coat, like, them, warmer and it sheds certain times of year. So that's what you moult. That's what you lose according to the seasons. But the actual fur, the coloured, the tabby bit, that just stays forever, does it? Yeah, that does. Well, I never. I wish I could find that for humans. I'd have been. I'd have had a very different experience. Um, qualifications? Dog groomer. Nice. What about cats? Yeah. Don't really like them that much. I mean, there's not much business in cat grooming, is there? No, there isn't, because, I mean, they don't need it. It's mad, isn't it, that? I mean, if you didn't have dog groom. What didn't have dog groomers? The fur. Would it grow forever? Well, now everybody's got their cockapoos and mixed breeds and stuff, then. Yeah, you do. That's what we've got. And I always think of those sheep that get found in Australia after they've run off from the flock and they've been gone for ten years and they're about the size of a small car, because all the furs never stop growing. Do you? Forgive me for my inappropriate curiosity, but why is it so expensive? Because it takes so long. So if you think about it, when you go to the hairdresser. Yeah, sorry, when you go to the hairdresser, they will like, just. They charge you like 60 pounds or something. But we're doing now we're doing bath, like, massage haircut. It just takes so much longer. Very good point. Do you do humans? That sounds better than my hairdressers. Only in lockdown. Round of applause for Abby. Lovely stuff. Yeah, you're absolutely right. And also, it's a bit annoying. It's a bit rude to say. Why does it cost so much? Because you're a professional and highly trained and doing. Doing very tricky work. Sorry, Richard's in Aylesbury. Richard, question or answer? I've got an answer. James, carry on. It's for the pressure washing question. Yeah. So with regards to pressure washing, the hose that supplies the water will supply the water at very low rate, usually like 1 bar, which is 30 psi, give or take. And then you have a little brass pump, usually in the pressure washer, and that pressurizes the water. And what it's trying to is push the water out of a really tiny hole which is at the other end of your pressure washer. So with a bit we missed. It's all about the construction friction, isn't it? Yes. At the other end of the pipe. So you would. If the. If the aperture on the hose was the same width as the aperture on the tap, you wouldn't have much pressure at all? It'd be the same, pretty much. Give or take. Yeah. So that. I mean, it was actually a very silly question, after all. No, it's not a single silly question on mystery. There he is. He's written as a slogan. Thank you. What are your qualifications, Richard? I'm a firefighter, so we're dealing with pumps all day long. Of course you are. And like the matt, the big version, but the principle is still the same. A hose to reach the third floor of a building, unless it had. Unless it was a narrower. So you've got the pump and then the. Yeah. All right, that'll do. Round of applause for Richard. Great job. Thank you. Thank you. Is that not your first, is it? That's my second, I think. I thought so. I recognise your accent. Thank you, Richard. 1256 is the time. Juliet's in Marlowe. Juliet. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. It's just to add to the answer about vibrato. Oh, yes. Yes. So, I mean, I'm not going to discredit what the other lovely lady said with her beautiful voice. Elaine. Elaine from jazzy. Was it jazz? Yes. Elaine. Yes. I'm not going to discredit what she said because it was mostly true. But essentially, yes, you can sort of mimic it and learn to create a vibrato in your voice, but in order to have a true vibrata as you think of a rich vibrato that not for a singer has, it's really rich and big and great is all to do with skill. And it actually comes from the support you have in your diaphragm. So to sing properly, you have to have your support. Your breath work comes from your diaphragm. And if that's fully engaged and you're trained and you're singing with great technique, it allows the vocal box and your vocal folds to relax so that you can actually create that beautiful sound. And with that, that comes the oscillation or the vocal fold. And it also means you can sing stronger without actually tiring your voice. So it's actually a sign of skill and talent more than for the sort of pleasing of the ear. Oh, okay. Yeah. Okay. But it's both, though, because it wouldn't be a skill or a talent unless it was appreciated by the people listening, would it? True. So we're back to chickens and eggs again. Well, no, we are, because it doesn't matter what, how hard it is to do. If it sounded awful, it wouldn't be worth doing. True. But I think some people do put it on with their voice. They always force their voice. They do. They want to create it. And it doesn't actually always sound nice. If you think about sometimes a little old lady in the front pew at church who's really at the front, and yet you have a beautiful chorister, you know, young choir boy who's singing walking in the air with a pure voice. Yeah, very true. That seems. Can be more pleasant than the schlock. I like it. Well done. Qualifications? Well, I'm a trained classical singer and so. Yeah. Music at university. Round of applause for Juliet, please. We haven't got time, sadly, to ask you to prove it. You're trying classical thinking because I want to squeeze in Adam in Bo. Adam. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. It's a contribution to an answer, actually, because someone's answered it already. But I just thought I would contribute to the twin question. I'm a mirror image twin, so, yeah, I'm left handed, my brother's right handed. I'm left footed, my brother's right footed. And we've got asymmetries on the face which are reproduced when you look at us on both sides. It's pretty definitive, isn't it? What qualifications? I'm literally the answer to the question. And also I played football for Water Beach Colts FC with my left foot. You might know them around that time. I was raised in Land beach. God, yes, of course. Down there. Well, I'm out of time. I give you a round of applause, but you have to share it with your brother. It's only fair. Oh, man, it's tough. Very, very tough. This week I'm going to give it to Jay. I'm going to give it to Jay because I gave Elaine a free advert. Otherwise it would have been between Jay and Elaine. But just qualifications been, man. Just got me right in the funny bone. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player. You can also pause and rewind live radio. You'll also find all of LBC's shows to catch up on, as well as all the best video clips from LBC and other global stations. Pause and rewind live radio on global player, where you're always. You're always in control. Always in control. Download for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Sawbrick will be with you at four. But now on LBC, it's time for Sheila Fogarty.