What did they do before toothpaste?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. We are somewhat relieved to immerse ourselves into mystery. Out. I forgot to tell you what the question was that I was going to ask this week until Arizona. It was a bit too complicated and it got answered by an article in the Scotsman yesterday. I was wondering whether the heat waves could damage our houses. I know that sounds a bit odd, but my house is really cool when you come in on a hot day because of the way it's built and the way it faces the hallway is really nice when you get home on a really hot day. And I opened the door on Tuesday or Wednesday and it was like a sauna. And I thought, oh, I wonder if that. And then I found myself wondering, does having a bit of damp, does that help in this weather? Because it kind of. So I had all these weird thoughts about whether or not the hot weather affects our house, our homes, the actual infrastructure. And it turns out it does. I'll retweet that article from the Scotsman for you, if I haven't already, later today. But anyway, park that time for this. And this is your weekly opportunity to get the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The way it works is simple. You have a question bubbling away in the back of your brain somewhere, and somebody listening to this program will be able to answer it. That is the bottom line. There are a couple of conventions and rules which you'd loosely describe as being discouraging of dullness. So if your question's quite boring, you won't realize that obviously you're not going to ring in with a question that you know is boring. But if we think it's boring, we may politely invite you to move along. And the other one is repetition, which is my job, because it's up to me to remember whether we've done things before or not. The possibility is that you can go to LBC dot co dot UK and have a look at the archive, but leave it with me. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, this is the only proper rule of mystery. You're not allowed to look anything up. This is celebration of knowledge, illumination, education, whatever it may be, that's the bottom line. So it doesn't matter how you know what you know. I'll ask what your qualifications are. And you could say, I have. I have eight phds, James, and a masters. Or you could say, I saw it on telly last night. It doesn't matter. What just needs to be true. It needs to be a convincing qualification and a plausible one. And then it counts. So it doesn't need to be academic. It could be baggage. Gymnastics award four or your cycling proficiency test at Stourport police station in 1986. Although that would be a remarkable coincidence, seeing as I was there as well. That's it. That's the only rule. You're not allowed to look stuff up on the Internet or look stuff up in encyclopedia or whatever it may be. I think that's it really, isn't it? I tried to keep a vague record of the questions that we're wrestling with. I'll give you an occasional reminder of them. It's silly. Busy. I used to say it's the busiest hour of the week, but the way things have gone in the last couple of years, I kind of can't remember what it's like not to have a groaning switchboard anymore. So if you hear me say the number, it means that there are a couple of phone lines free. Okay. Genuinely, that's. That's the best way to play it. Zero. 345-606-0973 start with Dan. Who's in Stansted. Dan. Question or answer? That's question. James. Carry on, mate. When does a heat wave become like normal summer season? What do you mean? So when do we stop calling it a heat wave and just call it summer? Well, it'll be about averages, won't it? I guess it will be, but we need to know what the averages are. So if the average temperature for a season is much, much higher one year than it is on average, then it becomes a heat wave. But if the average goes up. So if it happens for five years in a row. I don't know, mate. Why am I trying to answer this question? It wasn't even sounding good. Sometimes when I go off I'm on it can start sounding all clever and stuff. But that was just embarrassing. All of July has been above 26 or 25. Yeah, but you need to compare it to all the previous Julys. That's what makes it a heat wave. And if this is now the new normal, when does it stop being a heat wave? How many Julys do we have to have that are this hot before we stop calling it another heat wave and just say it's another summer? It's a great question. I hope it's got an answer. Have to presume it does. But whether. I don't know whether or not heat wave is a technical term. You see, everyone's using it. They are. Everyone's doing it? We'll find out for you Dan. I like it. What do you do for a living Dan? Have you got a job that's particularly difficult at the moment in the hot weather, in the sun, at the airport. That's not nice is it? No. What would be the worst job? I know Rachel's been out today trying to work out what the worst job is. I would go with putting in loft insulation. Yeah, that's, yeah, that's not a good one. I can't think of anything worse. I mean being outdoors is tough enough at the airport and what have you. Partly depends what you're wearing, but I think putting in loft insulation would be pretty close to hell on a day like today. Eight minutes after twelve is the time John is in Harrow. John, question or answer? I have a question James. Carry on, John. It's eye bags. Why does it say it sounds like you're down a well? John, what are you doing? Let me switch the air conditioning off. I know it's hot but what difference with the air conditioning mate? Because I'm on a coach and you're on a coach. Yeah, I'm a coach driver. Sounds awful. Am I on hands free at the moment? No, I'm not driving, I'm parked up. I know you, I know but it's just, it's a terrible phone. What are you doing? Are you on a job? Are you taking people to the seaside? What you up to John? I'm actually cleaning the coach. You're cleaning? Is it your own coach? No, no, no, I work for a company but we're all required to wash and clean the coach by hand. Grief. So you got, you got your radio on and you've taken a moment out of your coach cleaning duties to ask me what causes bags under the eyes? Yeah, yeah, well we know this don't we? I mean technically it's age but I mean. What? Oh what? So hang on, what sort of bags are you talking about? Bags under the eyes? No, but not because some bags come and go. You mean permanent bags? Yeah. Not temporary bags. Well temporary bags then. Yeah. Which, because it's not age, there's obviously something in the skin that causes your bags to go on. Tiredness. Tiredness and dehydration can cause bags under your eyes. But they're not age based bags, they're, they're booze based bags or tiredness based bags. But what is the constant, the ingredient? What? Okay, well we'll find out. I think we've done that in the past and I've forgotten the answer, but I didn't. Yeah, but it's not going to be age because they're permanent bags. Yeah, these are the bags you can. Why are you worried? Are you thinking of having some work done? John? If the numbers come in. If the numbers come in. Straight down the surgery. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. Back to your coach. Anthony's in Norwich. Anthony, question or answer? Hello James. Yeah, it's a question. I'd like to know why different species of birds don't interbreed, you know, like blackbirds and rooks or all the different finches. They all seem to say. They all say their own so to speak. Well what? Yeah, I mean is it a mystery? Pardon? Is it a mystery? Well it is to me. It's a mystery, you know. It's not. But what are we, what are we comparing them to? Because we know that dogs will. I mean dogs are dogs and cats, other animals doing there is such a thing as a liger as I'm sure you know Anthony. Yeah, yeah exactly. But you know this never seems to happen in the birds properly. It doesn't, does it? I mean I'm just. Do you know what? I'm just trying to work out whether this is a dopey question or a brilliant one. I think it's possibly a brilliant one but occasionally I call it wrong. And something I think is brilliant turns out to be dopey. And something I think is dopey turns out to be brilliant. Yeah, so. And we're hun. I mean they don't do that. Are you sure? They don't breed that well then you'd see a kind of crate, you'd see a craven flying around the place wouldn't you? Yeah, or a crook even. Sort of. Doves and pigeons, they don't interbreed, do they? I call them Diggins. No. Why not? That's a great. What's an amazing question? Why have you been? Do you keep birds? No I don't. I haven't. They come into the garden. I love watching them. You know I've often wondered, you know why doesn't a robin breed with a sparrow? Exactly. I could, I could do this all day Anthony. So I should probably. I should probably bid you farewell at this point. Thank you for that. Why don't birds breed with different is. It's not even species. Well anyway, you understand the question. What a cracking question. Bags under the eyes. What's the definition of a heat wave? When does it. I mean if we have several heat waves in a row when does it just become summer? How does it have to be. How hot does it have to be to be a heat wave? And how rare does it have to be to be a heat wave? Zero. 345-606-0973 Tom's in. Leads. Tom, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Tom. Why is it that the UK rails are always buckling in heat where countries that are much hotter dirt? Is that true? Do our things buckle in heat? Well, apparently. Kerbington network, Wyatt rail, whenever you're on the train, it's. The rails can't handle it, really. I mean, I'm not being skeptical, I'm being ignorant. I just. I travel quite a lot by train. I think I've heard that. But it's a commonplace thing. Is it that they say the rails are bending and. I've had it a couple of times. Okay, but I presume it's got something to do with how the. How the rails are installed. So why don't we make it so that they don't? Because it's never. It was never supposed to be this hot when they were. When they. When the rails were laid. But surely while they're laying the new infrastructure, they were. Well, then you don't know for sure that the new infrastructure is susceptible to the. To the bending and the warping that you describe as the old infrastructure. But someone listening will know. I just. It would be astonishing if they weren't doing now putting in place. I can't imagine that they don't replace the rails quite often. So far, it's still to be happening and we've had quite a prolonged period of hot weather. That's a very good point. It shouldn't still be happening. That's a very good point. Okay, yeah, you're on. I mean, and it doesn't happen in countries that are routinely much, much hotter than this one. Well, we don't hear about it. The Chinese currently building a rail line across Africa. So if rail buckling is going to be a problem, then why would they be building a rail line in Africa? I know. We'll find out. I like that. 1214 just coming up to 1215. Thank you very much, Tom. So we've got the railway question. Why do we. How can our railways buckle in the heat, given that this country isn't anywhere near as hot as lots of other countries where presumably the railways don't buckle in the heat? Because if they did buckle in the heat, they'd be permanently buckled. Why don't birds breed with other birds, like finches and sparrows or crows and ravens, rooks. That's a really good question, isn't it? I mean, you can't ring in as they just don't fancy each other. I want a biological explanation. What causes bags under our eyes? And when or how does a heat wave cease to be a heat wave? In other words, if it's this hot for the next ten summers, at what point does it just become summer as opposed to a heat wave? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. You are listening to mystery out on LBC, where we are looking at why railways buckle in the heat here, but presumably don't in hotter countries, why birds like finches don't breed with canaries and, you know, any combination you like. I'd never thought of that before. Presumably there must have been some sort of interbreeding in the past, otherwise there wouldn't be so many different kinds of birds. Or am I being thick? That's not a mystery. Our question, you can't ring in, say, yes, James, you're being thick, and get a round of applause. What causes bags under our eyes, and when does a heat wave cease to be a heat wave? Because it's become normal. Stuart is in Canterbury. Stuart, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Stuart. It's in answer to the question about why the heat. Why the rails don't buckle. Yes. In hot countries, it's basically all to do with the expansion of metal, and it's very simple, really. In the hotter countries, they have a wider gap between each rail that's put in because, you know, you know, they're laid on sleepers. That's what I said. And as the metal expands, expand into each other, in colder countries, the gaps a lot narrower than it is on warmer countries. Yeah, there you go. That is it. So as we are getting hotter, on average, we should presumably start putting in bigger gaps. Apparently so, yes. What are your qualifications? My father was a metallurgist. So our problem is caused by the way the rails are laid? Absolutely, yeah. But if we went the other way and had too big a gap in the. We'd have an opposite problem. In the winter, when the metal contracts, you could fall through it. Yeah, that'd be, you know, is it the same on a road? Because I always notice on the m four, just going past the Glaxosmith climb building as you come into London, there's a kind of flyover above Brentford, and it's got. It's got metal teeth in the middle of the road. Is that the same thing? Very likely, yeah. If it's on the flyover itself, it's for the extension of the tarmac in the heat. Close that gap, it'd be so be tiny, but enough that if it wasn't there it could cause problems. Yeah. If you went over there today, you'd probably be able to just about maybe get a couple of cigarette papers between the two. Yeah, but in winter when it's. When doing the beast from the east and all that, you probably have a half decent gap. Probably. I don't know. You know what, mate? That was one of the things I've thought about. Oh, I must ask that on mystery hour and then I've forgotten. And then because you've answered the question about railways so well, I've managed to bring in my supplementary question about roads and everyone's a winner. I'm not sure about your qualifications. My dad was a metallurgist. My dad was a journalist. Doesn't mean I'm any good at journalism, as regular listeners will attest. I don't want to say anything about that, but if you've done enough to get a round of applause. Hey. To me. Oh, you're very welcome. Tara is in light water. Tara, question or answer? It's a question, carry on. It's why I've noticed sometimes flies fly around in a circle in an area right in the kitchen and they're just round about. Oh. What? We lost the line. We'll get Tara back imminently. 20 minutes after twelve is the time if you want to get through. Actually, you can probably grab the last fellow's line if you. Quick. Peter's in Dulwich. Peter, question or answer? Question to you. Carry on, Peter. Right. In the 1920s and thirties, cartoonists in children's comics and newspapers, all these portrayed spacemen wearing oxygen tanks and helmets and spacesuits. Yes. We didn't go to space in 1961. How did they know that we couldn't survive outside our atmosphere? Do you not think that they probably worked on scuba diving models? No. I mean, that's a very charming chuckle, but I would have thought they were trying to think, well, it's a different area. All they could think of was water as being a different atmosphere with which they were familiar. So they decided to make spacemen look like scuba divers. Well, it's an excellent theory. It is absolutely a speculation. It's something we can't really prove, I suppose, but I don't know, there's an illusion to it, allusion to it. In back to the future, the first back to the future film, when the kid is reading a comic book and I mean, who knew what spaceships would look like before we went to space? Rockets. Presumably there's an aerodynamic explanation for rockets that could have been predicted. But I shall try. I mean, I'm taking your word for it about the 1920s and thirties cartoons. Oh, absolutely. I wasn't even Dan Darin, the eagle. That was prior to the space launch, you know, and he always had the spacesuits, did he? Oxygen? Oh, yes, yes. Are you sure? I'm pretty darn certain, yeah. I got the first ever edition of the Eagle. You got the foot. How much is that worth? Oh, I don't know. I haven't got it now. I got it at the time. Oh, I see. No fair. Well, you should have hung onto it, mate. That'd be worth a fortune. It would be indeed. Right, we shall do our best to find out. But. But as you say, it may well be that we can only ever get a theory, however good the theory may be. Thank you, Peter. Spacesuits. How did they know that astronauts would need air tanks before they actually went to space? It's a lovely question. Tara is in light water. We'll give her another go. Tara. Where were we? Hello. I'm sorry. I noticed that flies circle round in a room and I just wonder why they do that. They just seem to fly around. It's not even under a light shade where I've noticed it recently and I just wondered if there might be photo toxis. Oh, don't pretend. You know what that means. Is it toxic or taxis? Photo taxis or photo. It's from the greek. It just means attracted to light. They're attracted to light, but it's not in. It's not when the lights are on, it's in the day. What? Oh, well, then it's because of that. It's because of their sonar. It's because the center of the room is the furthest from all the walls, so they're less likely to fly into something by accident if they stay nice and central and just describe a fairly small circle. Makes perfect sense, actually. Are you being sarcastic? Yeah, that's photo taxis. You see, they're being attracted to the light. Oh, this is good. But why not back to the center of the room? Because the lights not on. So they have attention. A fly's life. A fly's life is a philosophical and psychological tension between photo taxis and wall avoidance. Okie dokie. Yeah, I'm making this up. It's very convincing. He's very. That's my. That's my career. Right there I. Should I leave it. I'll leave it on the list but I know photo toxis or taxis is a word but the, um. But the light fittings is harder to explain if they're not on, why are they drawn still drawn to the. And I don't know if this has ever happened to you but they can plant, they can I once undid a light fitting and it was full of. Full of flowers I mean, the flies had lived in it yeah what's that about? I have no idea nor do I write flies for Tara thank you, Tara 24 minutes after twelve flies and lights what have you got? Uh, neve is in Manchester Neve question or answer? Answer carry on um, it's the birds species not breeding thing dogs are the same species so definition of a species is an animal that can procreate and produce fertile offspring so dogs are the same species so your Pekingese, your labrador, all of them are the one species whereas with birds they're a different species so an eagle is a different species to a starling to various different birds qualification? I used to be a biology teacher that's a brilliant answer yeah, and the other thing about it is while you're here, while you're here, biology teacher would I be right in thinking that flies don't have sonar? I don't think flies have sonar I'm not, but still I just want to cover my deliberate misleading in the last answer by pointing out that it was, it was that's a beautiful answer so I mean, you can see why people ask the question because you would presume that there was some sort of, is the word taxonomic? There's some sort of relationship between. Yeah, they possibly would have bred but then they wouldn't have produced fertile offspring so you wouldn't have a new species so oh, I see so they might, they could have, they might have bred so like a donkey a donkey and a horse produces a mule or a hinny depending on which way around so a donkey is a mule is a male donkey, female horse and hinny's the other way around and what species are they? That's all species of horse is it? So it's no horse and donkey are different species but once you have the hinny or the mule, that mule is sterile or that hinny is sterile so although they can produce an offspring the offspring they produce is not fertile and do we know if birds can do that? Have we ever come across it? I don't know but I'd imagine that they possibly have but then no, but it wouldn't matter anyway because there would be. There'd be no further offspring. So the definition of a species is procreation, creating fertile offspring. Yes. So you can have an offspring, but that offspring is not fertilized, so the liga you mentioned wouldn't be fertile. This. You're brilliant, actually. I mean, I'd love to give you a rayliotto, but I can't because, I mean, being a biology teacher is not extraordinary. It's brilliant, and you're clearly very good at it. But that. I can't remember a call from which I learned so much. Okay, thank you. That's brilliant. Why did you give up biology teaching? You must have been. I was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis, so I'm in a support role because I couldn't do the planning and marking in the evening, so I was defective fatigue. Fair enough. No, I understand. I'm sorry to hear it. But, I mean, I can't remember the last time a round of applause was so well earned bringing mules into it as well. There was a mule in the news this week because it went to a dressage thing and there was. I didn't know mules couldn't breathe. God. Where you live and learn. And that, children, is why sparrows and starlings can't have babies. Colin is in Gantz Hill. Colin, question or answer? Oh, question, please. Carry on, Colin. Centigrade or Celsius and Fahrenheit? Yes, Celsius. Zero degrees Celsius is freezing point of water. Yes. That's 32 degrees Fahrenheit. What was it that made them pick zero degrees Fahrenheit? Is there an event that occurs at that temperature? Is it not absolute zero? No, that's Kelvin. No, that's. -273. I'll get you. Yeah. So? Well, it'd be something that Fahrenheit did, wouldn't it, in his, um. That's right, in his experiment. And we want to know what exactly. So why did fat. Why did Mister Fahrenheit choose his. Where did his zero come from? Correct. Because we know it's not freezing. Because that Celsius. Yeah. All right, you're on. I like that. You seem to already know quite a lot about these matters. How come you don't already know this? No idea, James. I just happen to know how to do the conversion table, which I learned years ago. But as to why naught degrees Fahrenheit is where it is, I haven't the faintest idea. Fair enough. Well, we should hopefully find out for you by 01:00 thank you very much, Colin. 1228 is the time. Why did Fahrenheit. What is zero degrees fahrenheit? What is it? I mean, because we know that Celsius is freezing water. It's a lovely question that flies and lights. Why are flies attracted to lights even when they're not on oxygen and spacesuits? How did they know that astronauts would need air tanks before anyone actually went to space? By the comic books and their fictional depictions. We've done the rails, we've done the birds. Birds was a brilliant answer. Bags under your eyes. What causes that? And when does a heat wave cease to be a heat wave? Because it's now just normal summer. I love that question. I hope it gets an answer. You're listening to mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. The number you need to join in, if you can answer any of those questions, is zero 345-606-0973 and that's also the number you need if you've got a question that you want to squeeze in before close of play. Today, you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery hour is underway. A good one this week as well. That bird answer was beautiful. Never even knew that. I kind of said to you in the last hour, didn't I? Stuff that's right under our noses all the time that we don't understand. Well, we understand that now and we will crack on. Eric is in Croydon. Eric, question or answer? That's question. James. Question. Good and all. Carry on, Eric. Memory sticks, USB computers. I'm bored already. Eric. And you've got the fire, you got the radio on in the background as well. Go on, quickly. What? Yeah, hello. It's all gone wrong, mate. Well, we'll get you back in a minute. Don't worry, I promise we will. Even though your question is really boring. David's in Crowthorn. David, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The reason why the Fahrenheit scale is 32 degree. Water freezes at 32 degrees is the zero point. Fahrenheit is the freezing point of mercury, is it? Yes. 100%. 100%. Qualifications? I was the next aircraft electrician in the air force and we did that during our training. Freezing point of mercury. Yeah, love it, yeah. Well done, David. Round of applause. Absolutely. Bang. I'm with nail up this. This is all grown up stuff today. I'm learning loads. Mystery. I can sometimes be a little bit, um, infantile. Cheryl is in. How do I pronounce that? Cheryl Olsford. What? Olsford it's just the other side of Colchester. Cheryl. Is just the other side of Colchester. Question or answer? Cheryl. Carry on. The answer to the bags under the ice. Yes. A couple of different reasons. One can be because it's just a fluid buildup, so it can be due to feeding intolerances. So things like weep, which can cause puffiness. You can get it under the eyes. This phone line's gone funny as well. Cheryl, I don't know what's going on on the other side of Colchester. Go on. Sorry about that. So I don't know, how far did I get? So, puffiness. Fluid? Yes, I build up a fluid, which is the puffiness, and that can be due to weight intolerances, food intolerances, but also if you put skincare. So your moisturizer or eye cream, if it's got a lot of oil content in it, if you put it too far around the eye. So the closer you put it to the eyeball, the more likely you are to get a puffy reaction. So actually it can be used to put in your cream too close to the eye. Oh, yeah. So the skin around the eye is five times thicker than the skin on the face, so you need less cream. But also it acts like a blotting paper, so it sort of draws up the product that it needs. So if you put it too close to the eye and it draws it up, it then draws it into the eye, which can cause the puffiness and dark circles is something completely different. That'll do qualifications. It does really rather well. So natural psychologist and skin specialist. Round of applause. Thank you, Trevor. Okay, back to Croydon, where Eric has a really boring question. Hello, Eric. Question or answer? Be easy, Mum. James. It's a question. All right. And a computer's memory stick and normal computer memory, why does it go up in 4816, 20 and what have you? Why not just in fives and tens? And then when it gets to one gig, it's rounded up to one gig? Yeah. You look on a computer at one gig, the capacity and it shows 950 gig as opposed to 1 tb. Love it. Why? I don't know. I find that's not as boring as I thought. You love it? Yeah. It's not as boring as I thought it was. Only because you brought in the kilobytes and the terabytes. That's what just elevated it to a new level. This is a mega question. Well, let's not get carried away. I said. I said I like it. I love it. It's all right. Okay, so it depends what the answer is, you only really get the full measure of a quality of a question when you've got the answer in. So why do they go up in force? Is it something to do with binary? Would it be or not? James? I'm not looking, I'm not googling. No, fair enough. Let's crack on. Nice one, Eric. Thank you. I apologize for my early rudeness. Phil's in Gibraltar. Phil. Question or answer? It's an answer. It's a steward's inquiry. Shut the front door. I'm afraid so it's the Fahrenheit question. The reason it's zero is because it's the lowest. It's the lowest temperature he could produce in his lab. So it's got nothing to do with mercury? Nothing to do with mercury. I'm afraid it's to do with. I thought he sounded a bit shaky when I questioned him. No, no, it was a mixture of ice. It was like a slushy mixture of ice, water and salt. Basically, we were trying to produce the lowest lab temperature he could find, a zero point. And then, if that's why Kelvin had to then come up with a new temperature system to reach absolute zero. So nothing at all to do with mercury? He must have just misremembered. He was a nice fella. Well, you know, I can't speak for him, but. No, well, you get a round of applause, then. Thank you. One day I'll get that radio if you ever get a question about property. Have a good day. Well, I don't think you'll get one for property. You've already had. I've seen on your twitter profile that you boast about me describing you as a brilliant caller. Some people are never satisfied. Well, you know, you got a beach for the stars, mate. Reach for the stars. Reach for the stars, he says. It's absolutely that rich. You're never going to get a ray lutter for being involved in the property development world. You get a Rayleigh otter for being the story or for being the. You know. We'd have a question about irons and you invented irons or something like. That's a bad example. But you take my point. Jeff's inhaling. Jeff, question or answer? Answer, I hope. Carry on, Jeff. So the answer, reference oxygen and spacesuits. Oh, yeah, go on. I don't think it's got anything to do with them needing to know whether they needed oxygen. No, I think it's to do with knowing that in space, the pressure would be vastly different and as a human, we would need a pressurized suit that therefore must be airtight, which would therefore need oxygen to use it. Ah. So the. But how would they know that the atmosphere outside Earth was pressurized? Well, Boyle's law. So, Robert Boyle, 17th century, 16 something studied in Oxford, which is where I'm originally from. And so he discovered Boyle's law, obviously, all about gases under pressure. And through industrialization and building things like the Brooklyn bridge, engineers discovered something that they called Caisson's disease, which is actually the bend. So when people were working under rivers, digging foundations for bridges, when they came up too quickly, they felt sick, and they realized why. Exactly. So by going back down, they realized it relieves the pressure. So they realized it was to do with the gases in your bloodstream, based on the pressure that you're under. So it would make sense, therefore, that the pressure, the atmosphere above your head has weight. I can't remember who figured that bit out, but the air does have weight. 14.7 pounds per square inch. This is strong qualifications. I'm an advanced scuba diver. I told you it was going to be to do with scuba diving, didn't I? Yeah. You have to learn all about a little bit about border law when you. When you. When you're doing that. So, you know, pressures and densities of air and stuff like that. So you learn that. That the pressure, as the pressure reduces by half, the density, increases by two, so it's inversely proportionate. So you learn all that stuff. And I'm currently teaching my ten year old, because she's just about to do her course, so it's all there. Actually, there's a really good book. There's a guy called Tim Ecot wrote a book called Neutral Buoyancy about, and I read that, and that's where I sort of learned a lot about where it originated from and the construction and what have you. And Robert Boyle's assistant was a guy called Edmund Hawley, sometimes called Haley, who was an astronomer, and he discovered Haley's comet. So there's actually a connection. Fantastic work. Round of applause for Geoff. Pure quality, mate. Your daughter's lucky to have your guidance in her life. 1241 is the time. Dan's in Bristol. Dan, question or answer? Got a question for you. Yes, I live in Bristol, and I work as a salesman on the road, and as such, I'm often going across the Severn bridge into South Wales. And it occurred to me the other day that when heading westbound into Wales, once you get to the welsh side, it is only then that you see the sign that says welcome to Wales, similarly, heading eastbound. When you get to the english side, it is only then that you see the sign saying welcome to England. So my question is, when I am on the bridge, what country am I in? This is like that crime drama, the bridge. Didn't they find a body smack in the middle of the bridge? So the jurisdictions were both the countries on? Is it Sweden and Norway or something like. Is that. I haven't watched it. Misses O'Brien doesn't like the gory stuff. Well, the outcome, I can't remember. I said I haven't watched it, I'm just mentioning it for no particular reason. I see, I see. Sorry, Dana. Yeah. If you slap. If you slap bang in the middle, if you put a corpse on the line, because there'll be a line somewhere on the bridge right there. And on one side you're in Wales and on the other side you're in England. So you could theoretically have one for foot on both sides, like Ryan Giggs. I mean, no matter what happens, you're in Britain. Yeah, no, I know. I mean, what's the mystery? You just want to know exactly where on the bridge it is. Yeah. I mean, if I'm talking to someone on the phone and they say, where are you? I say, well, technically, I'm in neither England nor Wales. I remember my mum and dad pretending that we needed passports to go over that bridge and pretending that we left them at home. So we're going to have to drive all the way back to kiddermist when we were on the way to Aberdovey at the seaside. I shall put that on the board. I mean, it works. Where else would it work? Would it work? I mean, you know where the scottish border is, don't you? There's no bridge. No, I think that's the only place in the UK where it works. Really? Great. We'll find out. Well, at least ours. How long have we got? Yeah, 17 minutes. I'd put some money on us getting an answer, that. Nice one, Dan. Thank you. Faye's in Chiswick. Faye, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Faye, I was wondering the other day about our pound notes and with the queen's head on it, so, on her demise, hopefully not soon. Yes. What will happen to all the notes? Will they change immediately or will they still be legal tender? They'll still be legal tender. They get recycled quite quicker than you'd think. Actually. I don't know what it is with the new plasticky ones. Presumably their shelf life is a little longer, but all the new stuff would have the new monarch on it and the old stuff would stay in circulation. I think the only reason this is a mystery, she's been on the throne so long, none of us can remember what happened when her father passed. Well, you and I weren't for life then. Exactly. And I don't know for sure, so I'm not going to be able to give myself a round of applause for this. I can't imagine there's any other explanation. Because the logistical requirements of taking everything with the queen's head on it out of circulation just doesn't even merit it contemplation, does it? It would be far too huge. I mean, we did have the old coins that were legal tender when we were younger, in the sixties. Ah, so you do remember that. Yeah, unfortunately, I remember that. Very silly. I mean, that's. But you've answered your own question. Because my granddad was a. Was a security guard in a bank after he retired as a. As a policeman. And he used to bring my sister and I presents of, you know, like memorial coins, when they mint a special coin to commemorate a special occasion. But he also once gave me a bag of coins that had. Is it. Would it be George? George? George the. George the what? I always get George the 6th. Yeah, because I remember the bit. But when we went decimal, they went out of circulation, so post decimalization, we wouldn't have seen anything with George the 6th on. But pre decimalization, I suspect some of the coins were still in circulation. Perhaps. Which is why you saw them in the sixties. I was a bit young. You were. Do you want to share a round of applause? Okay. Or do you want to hang on for an expert? Times running out, so might as well get some applause. Let's share the round of applause. Faye on that one. I think we've worked it out between us. There's still room for an expert, but Faye deserved that. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I wasn't claiming to remember pre decimal currency. I was telling you my grandad gave me a bag of coins once to play with, and they had George Vi coins in it. So I suspect that they only went finally out of circulation after decimalization. But I don't know. The point is that when the queen passes away, the banknotes with her head on will still be legal tender. Me and Faye work that out ourselves. Kate's in Harpington. Kate, question or answer? Answer. Jane. On the computer memory. Ah, yes. So basically it's computers, address memory and everything else with binary numbers, which is one and zero. Binary. I said binary. Sorry, I'm bringing a bit. It's. Yes. So you could. You could actually just use a seven kilobyte chip, but actually that it would still take 8 kb because it needs the two numbers to express it. So it wouldn't take any less space to have seven kilobyte. And the reason why they go up in fours, it's just multiples of two. But they could go up in twos. Yeah, but then increasingly, because as we get more and more access to power, it doesn't make sense to go up in multiples of twos when you can take bigger steps. So eventually there'll probably be bigger gaps than four. Exactly. And interestingly, we now have quantum computers online that you can actually play with qubits yourself on the. Online at the moment. And the first quantum computer that went online was a five qubit computer because they are not restricted by binary, because actually a qubit, a quantum bit can be a one, a zero, or neither or both at the same time, because that's quantum physics. I like your little chuckle at the end. I'm nodding. If we were face to face. I'm nodding as if I understand what you're talking about. You might as well have been talking Chinese, Kate. You could, but I met a quantum physicist once and he actually said, anyone who says they understand quantum physics doesn't. It's just one of those mysteries. What are your qualifications? I'm a BBC technology reporter. You'll get into trouble now, won't you, sharing the fruits of your learning. A BBC technology reporter nailing mystery out. Kate. Well, listen, licensed fee payers are listening to this show, so in theory, they've already paid for my time. See, look at that. Covering all the bases. Nicely done. Round of applause for Kate. Thank you. Thank you, Kate. 1250 is the time Steve is in Southgate. Steve, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Steve. My great great grandfather built the Victoria Falls bridge and I was the first person to bungee jump off of it. And on both sides they had to get permission from both countries because there's no man's land, which people call it, but that is where the countries join. So there is a journey. You don't really know the answer to the question about the Severn bridge, but you wanted to bring it to a wider audience that you have a glittering family history and you bungee jumped off a massive bridge. I bungee jumped over seven. You're not even arguing with me, you just. Yes, I am really here just to boast about my bungee jumping exploits. James, I don't really know where Wales ends in England begins. No. You've got to look at your insurance and everything else if you cross in countries. But it's different, though. I mean, it's a border, but it's not a border, if you see what I mean. It's a border between. Within a nation or a border within a country between two nations. So it is. But if you look at a. At a graph, you'll see it. You'll see what? You'll see the red line across. Yeah. If you look at a graph or something like that, you'll see it there. I would you. On the. On the map? Yeah. Really? Yeah. In the middle of the brick. Where won't it be the river? Wouldn't the river be the border? Middle of the river? Well, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'm not going to give you a round of applause. I'll give you a round of applause for being an excellent bungee jumper. How about that? That's fair. That's fair enough. I've never fancied bungee jumping, I've got to be honest. I was quite a daredevil as a kid, but bungee jumping never really tickled my fancy. Shaheed's in Camberwell. Shahid, question or answer? What is happening to the phones today? Shaheed? Sorry about that. Can you hear me now? That's even worse, mate. Well done. That doesn't happen very often. Got it now it's gone absolutely nuclear. All right, well, that's even worse. I'm back as. I'm back now. Sorry about that. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my call. You're welcome. Question or answer? Big fan of the show. Lovely work. And also the unfiltered podcast as well. Really great. Love tuning into that. The Jamie Oliver one was greatly. It's a different boss, mate. So it's a little bit embarrassing when you come on here and start praising that, because that's a different boss. I hope no one's. No one's answered it. It's. Where does the phrase the world is your oyster originate from? That's nice. I mean, do you want the good news or the bad news? Well, good news is. It's a good question. It's a great question. Bad news is it's 1254. And, you know, I've made a New Year's resolution to stop crashing into Sheila Fogarty's program, so I don't know if we're going to have time to answer that. Oh, no, don't say that. No. Well, I'll put it up now. I mean, I think we've answered everything else, haven't we? Except the seven bridge one and the heatwave one. So, I mean, I'll see what I can do, Shahid. All right, we can do some digging. That'd be great. That phone line's gone shocking again, mate. We've got to sort this out, honestly. 1254 is the time. When does a heat wave cease to be a heat wave? At what point does it become the average? I really, really, really want an answer to that. And if you call now, you will get through. Okay. Zero. 345-606-0973 why do flies get attracted to lights when they're not on? These are. I want to go full today. I want to clear the board. 0345. We've got five minutes. Come on, we can do this. Zero. 345-606-0973. Is there a formal point on the Severn bridge where England ends and Wales begins? Or indeed when Wales begins and England ends? Done. The bank boats. And what is the origin of the phrase, the world is my oyster? Rich is in Forest Hill. If you know the answer to any of those, you will get through if you ring now, because there's very few others waiting for answers. Rich, question or answer? Answer. Oh, go on. So actually coming back on the computer memory stewards inquiry. But Kate was a BBC technology reporter, you're not allowed to question her. It's heresy. Well, she was very close with the discussion about the use of binary. And then. Interesting bit search through on quantum computing. Yes, it's close to the use of binary. It's actually the definition of memory is defined around what's called a byte. A byte is eight bits of memory. So each one of those takes a positive mind state. But the point is that you then stack these bytes together. And so a kilobyte is 1000 bytes. If you start counting up in eights, the general multiplication is 64, one to 8256 512, and then you get it to 1000. The thousand is actually 1024, but it's generally rounded down and called a kilobyte. So as you keep stacking these on, a terabyte isn't actually 1000gb, it's 1020 4gb and a gigabyte is 1024 megabytes. And so there's this slight divergence, but it's so small that no one really cares about it. Qualifications? Um, I've got PhD in computing or computer modeling. Yeah, go on then. No, not specifically, no. Beautifully done, rich. Nice one. Has your PhD ever coming that useful before? Um, well, actually it's the basis of my job now. I was kind of setting up a gag. You didn't have to answer it quite so literally. Okay, thank you, mate. You're a star. Eric is in new Malden. Eric, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Eric. The world is your oyster. Is from the merry wives of Windsor by Shakespeare. It is. And the problem with a lot of Shakespeare's coinages is you don't know whether he invented it or whether he was just the first to write it down. Or, third option, whether or he wasn't even the first to write it down. But he's the only one who survived. Right. I studied etymology at Penn State University and this came up and the theory was that he invented it because is going to use violent means to gain his fortune. So the violence is the opening up of the oyster and the fortune is the pearl. I mean, the line went a bit funny there, but it's not one of the plays I know well, but that's beautiful. So guess what I'm doing tonight, Eric? What's that? I'm going to see Ian McKellen's king lear. Oh, enjoy. I shall. I am so excited. I'm so excited. In fact, I'm probably more excited than I've been about anything in a very, very long time. I mean, in terms of theatricals, I don't mind getting the wrong idea. Kirsty's in Basildon. Kirsty, question or answer? Carry on. Kirsty the fly. Question. I only looked this up the other day because it was driving me crazy. Oh, yeah. They're attracted to the lights when they're on because they think it's the moon. Right? And they're attracted to the lights when it's off because they go to usually, like a big light that you've got, like, hanging in the middle of the front room and circulate around it. Yeah, because they're looking for a mate. And they use that. They use the light as an attraction to say, like, hey, look what I found. Honestly. So what do you mean? They're looking for a mate? So what? Yeah, so it's like something. So it's like a landmark. It's like meet me by the clock. Honestly. They do it usually if you see that they're hovering around a light. The reason that they'll do it, one, they don't just hover, they fly around in circles to save energy. And second, I really looked into this. And secondly, they do it because they usually use a quite big light so they can say, hey, look at this object that I found. Look how attractive I am. Come and meet with me. I'm going to give you a round of applause because arguing with you would be too. Would be. Would be too much, wouldn't it? It certainly would, yeah. Round report. Thanks. Thank you. We got confusing. One more. Eleanor's in Burton on Trent. Question or answer, Eleanor? Answer. Carry on. Quick heat wave. Yes. It's when the temperature is average, is more than five degrees above the average for that day. For more than five days. Boom. So when the average moves and over what period is the average measured? You don't need to know this. It's either 100 years or all the time it was records began, that kind of thing. Yeah, got you. So it would take quite a while for a heat wave to cease to be a heat wave because the average is going to be harder to shift. Round of applause for Eleanor. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow from ten. I am going to go and watch Ian McKellen in King Lear tonight. Here's Sheila Fogarty. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from Tamp, only on LBC.