Why are objects in the rear-view mirror larger than they appear?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time, and mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You know what we missed earlier, don't you? I should have given. I should have given Jamie a Ray Liotta. So, having a chat, you mentioned Jamie Oliver on the radio. Jamie rings in. That is almost textbook Ray Liotta. But I felt it would have spoiled the tone and I wouldn't have had the opportunity to get Keith his special recipe tips. So how this hour of radio works is this. You ring in with a question, I banter with you for a bit, crack some hilarious jokes and drop some killing puns, and then someone else rings in with the answer and it's magnificent. It's also available in all manner of strange places. Now this podcast. So if you're not listening live on the radio at the minute, then a particularly warm welcome to you. It's four minutes after twelve if you're listening live and this is mystery out. And the phone lines are full, so I don't think I need to do a talk. Why are the phone lines full? I must be doing something right today. It's all gone perfectly. Jinxed it. Jinxed it. Keeter gonna set fire to his eyebrows later when he flames his pork chop. I'm just gonna crack on and you can work out, if you're not familiar with it, how it works, by dint of the fact that it's working. So we'll start with Barry, who's in Croydon. Barry. Question or answer? Question, James. And by the way, keep up the good work. Good man. I'll do my best. I'll do my best, Barry. I mean, you keep up. It's so refreshing to hear a media person tell the truth. Anyway, my question is, when does a murder become an assassination? How far up the pecking order do you have to be before you get assassinated rather than a murder? I don't think it's a pecking order. I think if it's done for political reasons, it's an assassination, don't you? Okay. Ava's shaking her head, which is extremely bold considering she's only been in situ for four days. Oh, so there you are. She's very, very bold. You know, we shouldn't make light of this. When we actually start speaking of specifics, we can use Donald Trump as a reason to make light of it. So Donald Trump tweets that he has received more attacks than any american president in history. And somebody points out that four of them have actually been assassinated. Yeah, and that word fits there because you're thinking of an american president. But if anybody. And then you think of british politicians who were murdered by the IRA, like airy Neve, Lord Mountbatten, they were assassinations for my money. And I think under the technical terms of the definition, we'd have to say that Joe Cox was assassinated by a terrorist, a white supremacist, in that case, because it was done for political reasons. So I think it's the day of the jackal. They were trying to kill de Gaulle. I think it's an assassination when it's been done for political reasons. I think, James, I think you're probably right. Yeah. I'm wondering who would qualify for a Ray Liotta on this one, but it's a fairly dark avenue and I don't think we should go down it. Barry? Agreed. Round of applause for me, please, Ryan. There you go. Thank you for the kind words. They are not compulsory. Bradley is in Twickenham. Bradley, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Carry on. Right. When I'm sat in my car and I look in the rearview mirror. Oh, hang on. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. This is a motoring question. It is, yeah. Do you drive, James? Do I drive? Does Lewis Hamilton drive? Carry on, Bradley. Right. When I'm sat in my car and I look in my rearview mirror, yes. The object seems further away. Yes. Yet when I look in my wing mirrors, they seem closer. So which mirror is accurate? I like that question. All right, I stand corrected. Oh, this is awful. I'm having so many slices of humble pie today, I shall be bloated by the time I get out of the studio. So, you're right, the wing mirror is more accurate. How do you know? I don't. So there's three different perspectives. Well, there's obviously some magnifying involved in the mirror. Right. So when I. When I go to take. I look at my rear view mirror, I think, great, I've got plenty of room. I look at my wing mirrors and think, I haven't. Yeah, but I trust the wing mirror, otherwise you'll have a crash. Well, I trust the winger, but also, what's the point of you? Keith's shaking his head now. Why do we have two different perspectives? Is the real question and which one is closer to reality? Right. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, no, I'm not. I'm not. Do you know what, Bradley? I don't know. You've clearly not been listening to the program for many years and that's absolutely fine. But the reason why I didn't like motoring questions, historically was because I was actually, as you just suspected, I was a very late arrival in the world of driving. I only really learned to drive when misses O'Brien was pregnant. On the, I think, perfectly reasonable grounds that she wasn't prepared to drive herself to the labour ward when she. When she went into labor. So. I was 32 when I learned to drive. And for me, I've always found motoring quite dull. But now I'm 47, it's not that dull anymore. No. And I really like your question. I don't know what that says about me or you. It says that we're shipped by wing mirrors. Well, that's what I was worried about, Bradley. It says that we're intrigued by wing mirrors, my friend, and we will get you an answer. 1209 is the time. I wasn't. I wasn't. I wasn't. I was 34. Sorry, fake news. Paul's in Westminster. Paul, question or answer? I'll come off. Hello, James, it's a question. Go on. Right. What? Why? Turn your radio off. Turn your radio off now. I haven't got. What's that echo in the background? There's people in the back of my cab. Oh, I do apologize. Hello. Hello. Customers. Give Paul a friendly tip. Carry on. Right. Why does crossing of fingers symbolize hopefulness? Done this a million times. It's all right. I've got a new team, so I can't get to. I can't get too picky. It's actually quite straightforward when you think about it. It's a little prayer. Little prayer. Yeah. Think about it. In the christian church, what is. Yeah. What is an item of worship? Lacrosse. Oh, God. Thank you. Thank you. Dominus vaubiscum. Round of applause for you. Thank you, Paul. Mind how you go and God bless you. 1210 is the time. You're listening to James Obran's a mystery hour on LBC. Given that I've got a new team in place. One, two. I didn't do the rear view mirror. Have I ever done every single one myself? I have to go back through the annals. Keith's been listening since she was knee high to a grasshopper. I've certainly had a go. But in recent years, I've stepped back from trying to answer all questions myself. But I'm in such an exuberant mood today. I can feel the old. I can feel the old magic creeping up on me. Lisa is in great Yarmouth. Lisa, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Lisa. I want to know why babies, and again, why you grow into adults as well. Why the bottom lip comes out and quivers when. When they cry. Oh, that's a lovely question. So I just. I'm just enacting it. Does it happen automatically? Just. Just pretend. Just squint a bit. Like close your eyes, like you were crying a bit. Does yours come out automatically or am I imagining things? It turns down, but it doesn't come out. But I know, like, when you're proper sobbing and when babies especially. I mean, what teaches babies to quiver their bottom lip? It must be genetic. It must be something that they do that triggers a reaction from mum of care or concern. I'm not going to claim a round of applause for this one before anybody starts writing to Ofcom again. However, it must. It must be something to do with the reaction that it generates, don't you think? Yeah. I mean, I can understand why the bottom lip turns down and even why it comes out, because, like you said, if you try and look upset now, your bottom lip naturally comes out, like, a little bit. But when you're crying and it kind of quivers, or sometimes your bottom lip quivers even before the tears come out. It just seems like a strange reaction to, you know, to sadness and that kind of thing. It does. No, I like it. I like it. I shall try and find out for you. And I don't think we've ever had that one before. How's life in Yarmouth? We've. Hang on, don't go yet, because we're doing. We're doing both ends of the seaside world. We've had Blackpool and now we've got Yarmouth. So what's new in Yarmouth? Yarmouth wins. Yarmouth wins. Sea life. Yeah. Sea life sent. Now we've got the oldest wooden roller coaster in the world. Scares the life out of me with a break. Absolutely terrifying. It's not electrical at all. There's a guy in the middle with a handbrake and he slows you down. I know. It's a proper old fashioned little park, that, isn't it? Proper old fashioned little. I get to gallston sometimes as well. That's actually where I live. No way. Shut. Because you thought that this lefty metropolitan liberal media elite wouldn't have heard of Gallston, didn't you? Well, you were wrong, Lisa. It is a classic. But, you know, you ask most people, they've never heard of Goldstein, but it is Norfolk's little gem, definitely. Well, they have now, Lisa. They have now. 1213 is the time. Get yourself to Gallston. After having a go on the most terrifying or the most rickety rollers coaster in the british seaside, 1213 is the time. So we want to know why babies stick their bottom lip out when they're crying. And it's not just babies. We all do it. If I tell you now to look like you're crying, first thing you do is stick your bottom lip out, isn't it? Like that? And why did the rearview mirror and the wing mirror. Oh, get me petrol head. I'll be presenting Top Gear before you. Why does the rear view mirror and the wing mirror have a different. What's the word I want? It's not perspective. Different depth. There's a word for it anyway. You get it. Mike's in leatherhead. Mike, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Mike. Okay, on. The driving instructor. Been doing it for 35 years. I think we know where we're going with this one, then. You haven't rung in to talk to me about baby's bottom lips, have you, Michael? No, you haven't. Carry on. Okay. Right. Interior mirror is flat and gives a true reflection of distance. Exterior mirrors are convex and give a distorted distance to make things look nearer so that you act more safely. If you've ever been to the states and you look in a wing mirror in the States, it's etched onto the glass. Objects in this mirror are closer than they appear. Is that right? I won't actually point out that only the Americans need reminding every time they look. But, yes. Round of applause for Michael. That's great work. And you've already told me your qualifications. Fantastic. To get a ray Lyotta. If anyone's confused, Mike would have to have been the person that invented the convex wing mirror in order to change the perspective on the passing traffic to ensure greater levels of safety. Wayne's in Colchester. Wayne, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. That's. You realize Wayne in Basildon is going to be gutted. He's going to think you're nicking his act. You're ringing him just up the road with the same name during mystery hour, which he likes to think of as his personal fiefdom. This is only going to end in tears. Carry on, Wayne. Question or answer? It's a question, please. I just wanted to know. Me and my wife are big gin fans, but we're really annoyed that you can only get tonic bottles in one, like, dinky little one litre size. I just wondered why that is. You can buy a lit. You can buy big litre bottles of it. Yeah, but if you look at it. You mean why can't I get a Coca Cola sized portion of tonic? That's right. It's just because you. Well, I'm afraid to say, wayne, the answer to this might be that you and your wife aren't quite as big a gin fans as you think you are. Because I presume that the idea is with a. With a decent measure of gin, that's the amount of tonic you need for a single drink. If you still want to be able to taste the gin. If you poured a whole can of coke into. You don't really have gin and coke, but you might have rum and coke if you put all Jack Daniels and coke. Don't drink, kids. If you poured a whole can of coke into your Jack Daniels or your rum, you wouldn't be able to taste the Jack Daniels or the rum. And if you poured a 330 mil measure of tonic water into your 6th of a gill or third of a gill of gin, you wouldn't be able to taste the gin, mate. But I. But say you're drinking at home, you've got your big bottle of. I can't mention the brand. No, you can. They might send me some. Go on there. You got your big bombay. No, Gordon's. I want sipsmith, mate. Seriously, I live in Chiswick. You might be necking Gordon's down in Colchester. I want a bottle of sipsmith, thank you very much. Or something. Something artisan that tastes of lavenders. Carry on, mate. Come on. Well, you want to make a night of it so you're not just pouring out the dinky can, then? It will go flat, pal. That can't be the. Of course it is. It's a measure for one drink. And if you. If you opened a tinny of tonic. If you opened a tinny. What about the bottles? The litre bottles? Yeah, but you can put the lid back on that if you really want to. But that was my original answer to your question that you. I felt rather rudely rejected. So that's how it works. It's a measure for a single drink and it stays fizzy. So you've got. You get. You get a pack. I mean, I go for the fever tree myself rather than the schweppes. You get a little six pack of fever tree and you open a new bottle for every. For every drink, you're guaranteed both fizziness and perfect proportion. Perfect proportionality of spirit to mixer. You really are revealing yourself as the lefty liberal elite today. James Sip Smith and fever tree, mate. I know, it's terrible. It's terrible. Wait till I tell you. London. Cedric, tell me what my favorite crisps are. I tell you. We're calling the style police. Round of applause for. Do you accept that answer? Wayne, you've got to. I don't really want to, but, you know, you have to ask me what my qualifications are. What are your qualifications? Mostly vodka. Round of applause for me. Thank you. 1217 is the time. Actually, I say, that. Been a bit off my game lately on the vodka. I've been drinking a bit of malbec of an evening. A nice glass of red wine. I shall make amends this weekend. I shall get back on the vodka. Back on the vodka wagon. Time for a break. This is LBC Mystery Hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1221. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery continues. I make no apologies for knocking it out the part today, answering almost every question, but here are some ones that still need answers. Why do babies stick their bottom lip out? That's it, is it? That's the only one. So I got four out of five so far. Should I have another think? Because I've already. I had a crack at the. Oh, no. Rear view mirror. Michael. Got that. Well done, Michael. Good work. The only question still in need of an answer is the one about why babies stick their bottom lip out when they're crying. Or indeed adults. But if we begin with the babies, it'll probably apply equally to the adults. 1221 is the time. Steve is an asker. Steve, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Why is a carpenter's pencil flat when a normal pencil is round? I know this as well, but I've literally just worked out. I didn't even know that was called a carpenter's pencil. But it's so obvious, Stephen. Oh, go on, then. Well, use your noodle. Come on. I don't know. I've wondered about it for ages. Right, let's do some role play. Let's pretend that we're working together as carpenters. All right? So I'm doing some sawing. You're my mate. You're my carpenter's mate, Steve the carpenter's mate. Are you ready for this roll? I'm ready. Passes. Passes. Your pencil, Steve. There you are, James, take my black pencil. Thank you very much, Steve. I'm just going to mark off where I'm going to saw next and I'll give you back your pencil. Steve, could you just rest it on that sloping plank of wood over there. I could. James. Is it going to roll away, Steve? It's not going to roll away, James, but I don't think that's the definitive answer. Is there more to it? Oh, I think there probably is, James. Yes. Having said that, I think we're both up for a BAFTA, because most pencils aren't exactly round, they're multifaceted. They're multi edged, aren't they? Well, okay then, Steve, pass me a ruler. Yes, James. No, you say I haven't got one. I say, have you got a flat pencil I could use instead of a ruler? You're not having that either, are you? No, I'm not, James. You did well, I think you did. Someone else might ring in with the answer that I've already provided, but I shall put it on the board, my friend. Why is a carpenter's pencil flat, as in the flat ridges as opposed to round, which I presume we're all working on the presumption I don't need to explain the meaning of. Neil is in Swansea. Neil, question or answer? Here's a question, James, carry on. It's a political one, so. But I'll avoid the. Any political parties. Why do MP's have surgeries? Why is it called a surgery? Oh, what a lovely question. We can work out the answer, can't we? But that's not good. No, actually, we can't. Did they used to do it in doctors surgeries, or does it simply mean a place that people come to to consult a so called expert? I genuinely don't know. What a lovely question. Yeah, you're on. Okay, absolutely. On the wife's question, so you can. She's like the credit for that one. Why didn't she ring in? Oh, she's. Yeah, she's scared of you, James. Scared of me? I'm a pussycat, Neil. I shall find out for you. Andy, what's your wife's name? Cheryl. For you and Cheryl, we shall find out why surgeries are called surgeries. And you could ask the same question about doctors, but we know that a doctor practices in a surgery. Why do we call an MP's regular meeting with constituencies where constituencies can go to present their problems? Ah, well, they go to present a problem and the MP tries to fix it. So there's a medical. Perhaps, but I love that question. When and why? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. So we have got baby's bottom lips and surgeries. Is that. And Carpenter's pencil cracky. How could I have forgotten? That. I can't imagine what else the answer could be, apart from the one I already provided. But Keith is looking very gnomic today. He's looking very gnomic. As if. As if he know, like Yoda. As if answer to this. Knows he. Jacob's in Stoke Newton. Jacob, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. First time caller. Don't be. It's only mystery, Aaron. It's only me. Okay. So it's basically, why does it smell after we cut the grass? I think. I think it's. I mean, because the. Because it's cut. I mean, the. The chemicals in the. You. This is. It's like. It's like you can imagine if grass bled. Right? Yeah. And you wouldn't be able to smell the blood, would you, until you cut the grass? No. You don't sound very impressed, Jacob. No, but I think that. Let me try again. It's like the grass has got a covering on it which stops the smell from escaping. So when you cut it, the smell escapes. Like tupperware or prophylactic of sorts. No, no. So you should have a smell in the first place, like. But why does anything have a smell? That's a silly question. Yeah. Also it lures insects to pollinate, perhaps. All right. Why does it smell when Jacob cuts the grass? You're on. I apologize for trying to answer that one. I should have been a little bit more modest. Yeah. But, you know, I've got bills to pay. Jacob. Thank you. That was a terrible phone line. Was he alright or was he in a sort of nuclear reactor when he. When he made that call on a plane? Steve's in Southgate. Steve, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Some churches have spires and some have kind of square turrets. Yes. Yeah, like. And I was driving back from shiftnall, then I noticed it was more up north. So is it a normal shift in Shropshire? Yes. Oh, nice part of the world, what we doing there? It is, May. Lovely stuff. Lovely. And of course, you get a lot of. I mean, that. That rural Shropshire is one of the, I think one of the least appreciated counties in our islands, isn't it? But you get a lot of. Pebzner had a lot to say about churches in Shropshire. So you noticed a difference between the round steeple coaching hills in there? That's right, yeah, that's right. But, yeah, I just, you know, the closer I got to London, the more the church has had spies. Okay, so you were getting a square tower on a church in the countryside and the closer you got to London, the more they were becoming round and pointy. Yes, like upside down ice cream cones. For anybody who's ever made a fairy castle for their sons or daughters birthdays, that's upside down. Christ. Green cones do a lot of. They do a lot of work. I could tell you that for nothing. I love that question. I mean, obviously every single person listening is going to recognize what you've described, but only a tiny number perhaps are going to know. The answer is there might not be a difference, but ease of building. I mean, it must be easier to build a square tower than a round one, mustn't it? I don't know. No, surely not. We shall find out for you, Steve. I like that one. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. Why are some spires. Why are some church towers Square and other ones are spires circular 1228 is the time and Mark is in Barnsley. Mark, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Mark, can you tell me why are some villages and towns twinned with other villages and towns in different parts of the world? Yes. Who does it? And are there any perks? Yes. Yes and yes, I can tell you. I do know who does it and there are perks. In fact, the perks constitute the answer to the first bit of the question. The councillors get to go on lovely jollies with the towns and cities with which they are twinned and they are reciprocated, so they get a free holiday out of it. You also get a little bit of cultural cooperation and what have you, and it is arranged by your local authorities, whether municipal or county councils, back in the day or whatever it may be. That's it. You might get no, nothing. No. No perks at all. Nothing at all. It's 29 minutes after 1245. Six. Is that all right, Mark? I mean, I think that's a good answer. Okay, nevermind. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Lisa Aziz is here now with the headlines mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 1234 is the time. We're playing a game, a game we play every Thursday, but a game that assumes particular significance when it is an election day because it limits what you can talk about the rest of the time. And it is a game in which we celebrate education, illumination and elucidation by inviting you to ring in with a question. It can be silly or serious, scientific or not scientific, and someone else will hopefully ring in with the answer. So we've answered. I say we. I use the term very loosely. I've answered loads today. There might have been another element to the. To the town twinning question, so I'm gonna withhold my round of applause on that, because, oddly enough, the town with which Kidderminster is twind, my hometown, does lend some support to the theory that has been sent in by Liam and others about what the origins of twinnings may be. So we'll leave that one on the board. I won't claim my round of applause for that. Why does it smell when we cut the grass? Or more specifically, why does it smell when Jacob cuts the grass? Why is a MP's regular opportunity to meet with constituents called a surgery? I like that one, but I'm not sure we'll get an answer. And why do babies stick their bottom lip out when they are crying? And why are some church towers square and other church towers round? It might not have any significance or meaning, but I've got a funny feeling it will. So hopefully you'll be able to tell us. Oh, and why does a Carpenter's pencil have flat edges? There's quite a lot to get through there. I've maybe been patting myself on the back a little prematurely for knocking it out of the park. James is in Tunbridge Wells. James, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, James. It's the carpenter's pencil. Excellent. Yes. I'll give you a point for the obvious answer. It wasn't obvious to Steve. Oh, it was obvious to Steve, wasn't it? To stop it rolling away. Exactly. There are a number of different things you can do with carpenter's pencils. Hang on, this is a family program. Don't worry, carry on. It's all safe. Yes. They can be used as a measuring implement in as much as their dimensions are the same, no matter where you get them, they're half inch wide and a quarter of an inch thick. So even though you've used it a lot, it's the width and the thickness. It doesn't matter about the length. That's very true. Got it. I like that. So that comes in useful when you're a carpenter for carpenting. It certainly does. There are a number of other things you can use. Carpenters pencils. The lead, if you can. If you look at the end of the carpenter's pencil, the lead is the same shape as the whole profile, but smaller, obviously, so you can sharpen it blunt, if that makes any sense. So you can use it on rough surfaces such as brick or concrete. Pardon my friends, you've got a really thick nib, so to speak. Exactly. It doesn't blunt a normal pencil lead as quickly. Obviously it will, but not as quickly. Oh, love it. Qualifications, I think. I know I do. Carpentry. There you go. Round of applause for James the carpenter. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you very much. What enjoyable question and answer that was? 1238 is the time and Joe is in Doncaster. Question or answer, Joe? Answer. Carry on. It's the. Why does grass smell? Yes, it's the plant release a chemical. Grass release a chemical when it's caught, that actually helps deter herbivores. The chemical that comes off is like a warning to other grass plants that it's being eaten and it allows them to start building toxins up in the leaves. Seriously? Yeah. It's why you might see, like, a herd of sheep grazing in a spot and then all of a sudden they'll just walk across to another pack. They won't keep moving in the same bit. The grazing. It's just the. The plants have released enough toxins to actually start warming them away. Doesn't work very well, does it? Looking. I mean, not being glib, but looking at cows and sheep and stuff. I mean. Yeah, but it's the reason why they have to have so many chambers in the stomach and have to eat it so many times. So they've both evolved. The eater and the eton have evolved over the years to where we are now. Like predator and prey. Yes, exactly. It's the way it's worked. That is one of my favorite answers ever on mystery hour, and that is really saying something, Joe. I love that question, and Jacob's going to love it as well. And I'd like to apologise to both of you for faffing around with my half cut answer, which now I'm frankly embarrassed to recall. I was kind of right. But, I mean, why was I talking about prophylactics, for heaven's sake? It's just not decent qualifications, Joe, I'm a golf green keeper. I'm actually currently sat in a lawn mower and at one point I was the youngest head green keeper in the country. Are you angling, mate? Maybe a little bit. Go on. Yeah. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on tv. I'll tell you, that is weak, but you can have it, you build it. Thank you. You're very welcome. 1240 is the time. Where's the golf course? It's Bawtry golf course with the crown in Portree still. Yeah. Yeah. Is that the one with the moat. You go over a little bridge to get into it. No, I'm getting confused. I can't think what that one's called now. No, but there is one in Portree like that, isn't there? Yeah, well, there's a few. When my dad covered the miners strike back in the day and the crown in portrait was always his favorite place to stay. And we used to live in Dunkhouse. My first house was in Burg Wallace, so it's almost certain that some of mum's old mates play golf on your course. Small world, eh? Yeah. My. There you go, Joe. Neris, a lovely name is in Bishop Storford. Neris. You're very welcome. Question or answer? It's question, please. Oh, hang on. We didn't give Joe a round of applause, Keith. We did. Oh, well done. At least there's one professional working on this program. Carry on, Neris. Hi. So, when I was younger and I was doing my Duke of Edinburgh exhibition expedition, volunteering, or actually with a skill, I learned to do bell ringing in church. Oh, cool. And I'm wondering, at the end of a bell rope, which is where you do the hamstring, there's a piece of. What was carpet then? That was called the Sally. I just want to know why it's called a Sally. Oh, that's nice. It's there, presumably to stop you getting a rope burn or something like that, is it? Or. Yeah, I think, sort of break the rope kind of jumps. Jumps out the hand at the end of the stroke. But I'm just wondering where the word Sally came from. That's lovely. Did you keep up your bell ringing? I'd like to say I did, but I think I got a bit cool, so. No, I didn't. That's really bad. Against all the bell rings at the moment, you're unlikely to pull much by telling your tales of bell ringing. I understand, Paul, it wasn't a deliberate pun, but there you go. They're getting pointed out, even though I'm not aware of them myself. I love. I always fancy bowling. Did you ever accidentally take off? Because that's one of the occupational hazards, isn't it? Oh, a couple of times in easy, because you weren't supposed to look up at the bell. And I kept doing that and I was awful, I won't lie. Even know how I managed to pass that as a skill. But was it bronze? I did enjoy it. It was good. It was bronze, yes. Carry on. I love that. A lovely question. Thank you, Norris. Why is it called a Sally? The kind of carpety bit at the bottom of a rope. A bell rope. Extra point if you can tell me what the practice of bell ringing is called. No, Keith, not for you. Campanology. Hattie is in Camden. Hattie, question or answer? It's the question, James, carry on. First. It's also just really nice to speak to you. I've been long time listener. Likewise. Thank you, Hattie. My question is, what is the kind of origin or when did we start sleeping in beds? When did we start sleeping with a duvet and a fluffy pillow? Well, hang on, there's two very different questions there. So, I mean, the origin of a bed would have been. I mean, pretty much as soon as. I mean, did you just put. Pull something over you, like an animal skin when you were sleeping because it kept you warm. But when did we start having a bed who was like, well, now we need to have, you know, a bed, rather than just right now. We've got there, Hattie. You see, you needed a little bit of work, you needed a good editor, but we've got there now we've got a really good question. When was the first bed made? Yeah. Who came up with that? I love that. So forget about duvets and because I was going to start talking about putting down reeds, pulling an animal skin over yourself and all that malarkey. We just want to know when the first bed was recorded. The first recorded bed? Yeah, I'd like to know. So would I. Now, can you find out? Well, I'll try. I'm not holding out a great amount of hope because it's probably one of those things that's lost in the midst of time. But you never know. An archaeologist. The earliest known bed. What a lovely question. That's a really lovely question. Zero. 345-606-0973 what do you mean? It's Sam's question. How can it be Sam's question if Hattie asked it? I get so confused by these things. 1244 is the time. Mitch is in Croydon. Mitch, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Mitch. James, lovely to speak with you, as always, James. Norman churches have square towers. Anything built after the norman period, before that, generally round towers were made of flint, and so it's to do with building materials. So in places where there is suitable building materials and money, then you get square towers, because obviously it's very difficult to make corners out of flint if you mix it with mortar. But if you actually build something out of stone, it's much easier to build a rectangular shape. Makes perfect sense. So post Norman will be what? Postman will be square. So a square tower. So the rounder towers will be older than the square tower. Correct. Oh, gosh. Really? Really? Yeah. 1066? Yes. Pre 1066? Yes. Not having it. Most of them are actually found round towers in places like east anglian counties like Cambridge, Suffolk and Norfolk. Yes. And this. And those are about 190 to 200 towers. Oh, no. Okay. We've got confused because you're talking about round towers and square towers. You're not actually talking about steeples. No. We don't count those as a tower. Well, I did, mate, because I'm not an expert. So I was thinking a steeple. So a steeple is post Norman. Most steeples are post normal. In fact, they're mostly 18th, 19th century. You've got a kind of gothic thing going on with a steeple. A steeple or a spire, but a church tower, if it's square, it's post Norman. So that period between norman and gothic, you get square towers. And Shropshire in particular would be Shropshire in particular. Those sort of counties will have square towers because they've got more money after the Normans landed, generally. But the rural ones. The rural ones, he will have seen round towers, won't he? As he was making his way through particularly deepest, darkest Shropshire, I think he mentioned he saw square tower, didn't he? I thought it was the other way around. I thought they got square as it came closer to London. But either way, you've answered the question. Whichever way round, my memory may be qualifications. I love that answer. I used to be a lecturer in history. Oh, that'll do. Round of applause for Mitch. I knew that. 1246 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three. Four. Five. Six. Zero six zero nine. Seven. Three. Twelve. Forty nine is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We're looking to find out why the regular meetings between an MP and his or her constituents is called a surgery. Why is the piece of carpet at the bottom of a bell rope called a Sally? It's the first recorded incidence of a bed. And why do babies stick their bottom lips out when they are crying? That, I think, is everything, isn't it? I think, and I've got finance free. The reason I'm doing this now is that if you ring in then, because you've got an answer, then you're in with a better than evens chance of getting on air. But you must be very, very confident of your answer, because I will ask you what your qualifications are and if they are not good. Then you will be nationally and publicly humiliated. If they are good, you'll get a lovely round of applause. So, if you can answer any of these questions, why is it called a Sally? The bit of sort of buffer carpet on the end of a bell ringing rope? The first recorded incidence of a bed. I've had a biblical answer, but I don't generally take texts, tweets or emails during mystery hour. The etymology question this week revolves around surgery and why. The word that, for most of us has entirely medical connotations also applies in the world of politics. And the question I thought we'd get an answer to, but the sticking out of the bottom lip when we're crying, either specific to babies or not, doesn't matter, does it? But if you can answer any of those, the number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 James is in Manchester. James, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on. So surgery actually just means any work done by hand. So any work done personally by hand. So, yeah, so it's. It's from the Greek. It's from, I think, kirogea, from what I remember. Yeah. And so. And it's basically just work done by hand. And so it's any work done personally and that personal meeting with your mp, rather than having to go through the office and deal with somebody else. Yeah. Qualifications? I'm a surgeon, so when I was at medical school, and actually later than that, because we still get taught, they bring up the first PDF or whatever it be, and then they. They usually kind of reel off the. Where does surgery come from? Where does. Where surging come from? And it's work done by hand and. Yeah, handy work. Hand work. Yeah. Great work for hand, Kirk. No, not Dulya. That's a modern greek word for work. Yeah. I think you've gone, by Jove, James. I think you've gone and done it. But, yes, that's pretty much all it is, just work done by hand. And especially because originally surgeons here, it was all done barbers. So original surgeons were done by barbers because they. They did all the stuff by hand. Doctors didn't do any surgery earlier on, so it was all the stuff done by hand. Apothecaries would be giving out herbs and spices and what have you, but the surgeons would be the ones with the sawbones. They didn't do any of the surgery, the sawbones. And I wonder if the political origin routes were in ancient Greece as well, where the meeting with it doesn't matter now. You've nailed it. You've done it. That's a really lovely answer and it gets you a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's 1253 and we are currently cooking with gas. But I have to tell you, there are only five or six minutes left to get a full board of answers and we need to know why the thing at the end of a bell ringing rope is called a Sally. I thought that one would be quite straightforward. Zero. 345-606-0973 we would like the first recorded incident of a bed. The number remains the same and the question about babies sticking out their bottom lips. And if you don't ring in with answers to those, then I will end the program by singing today, or in the spirit of our lovely conversation earlier, possibly sharing some of my favorite recipes. So be warned, Charlie is in Sutton Coalfield, spelt by my young producer, Sam, as if it was actually a coal field. Carry on, Charlie. Nice to talk to you. First time caller in. You're very welcome. Welcome aboard. What have you got? Well, basically, sadly, it was to do with the church spires, which I think you've had an answer to, but I disagree with the answer given that's what we call a steward's inquiry. So, I mean, to be clear, he was pointing at the square tower. There was a distinction between towers and spires. So you followed all of that. So what do you think? What do you think Mitch got wrong? As much as I agree with him in terms of the manufacture of the production of the building, and he's quite correct in terms of the round towers and the square towers, where I wanted to see if the actual answer was, was where you have a square tower. And on the top of the square tower. Many of these churches used to have a round spire made of wood. In rural areas, this would frequently become damaged and then it would fall over and it was never repaired. And the reason why I know this is because the church in Kidworth Beecham, where I grew up as a child, used to have a spire and it fell over in the 19th century, and a young girl on her way home from school jumped over the top of the spire that was on the floor. And she went home and told her mum and was told off for telling such silly stories. And that's why it's always stuck in my head. That's like, um, sort of local folklore, is it? Well, it actually had. The photograph of it actually had fell over in the storm. Why didn't her mum believe her? Well, would you believe it if your son came over and said, I jumped over the weather vane on top of the church. Oh, I see. Because your mum thought it was still on top of the church. I love this. That's like, do you do that thing ever where you say to a child, can you stick your tongue out and touch your nose? That's it. It's the same as that, isn't it? It's like a verbal illusion almost. I love that. My answer would be that a lot of these square towers probably used to have spires, but because they were damaged and fell over and because they're in rural areas where there isn't obviously the wealth to rebuild them, they stay. I don't think you refute anything that Mitch said. I think you've just added more knowledge to the answer he already provided. Absolutely. That's beautiful. Pleasure of your show. Enjoy it very much. Hang on, then, Charlie. Please accept a round of applause with my compliment. That's a lovely art. That's really lovely. Kipworth Beauchamp is one of those little villages. It's in Leicestershire. I think that you would never get a foreigner to be able to spell. I'm going to ask Sheila Fogarty, how do you spell kibwith Beauchamp? Oh, it'll have a secret l and m in it somewhere, won't it? It's the Beauchamp bit that's tricky. But you probably know, actually. Oh, Beauchamp. Beauchamp. Beautiful fields. So we've got another norman connection there, Kyle. You learn a lot when you pay attention to this program. Giles is in Truro in Cornwall. Giles, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's the sally question. And the word originates from a french word which means the action of a jumping rope. So that's why they called it the Sally. But one of our older bell ringers used to call it a fillet as well, which I believe he explained is another rope term for meaning something to do with a corded rope. Well, I never. So you are a bell ringer? I am, yes. Yeah. How do you get into it? My dad. My dad taught me to ring when I was quite young. And you still do it every Sunday, do you? Yes. Yeah. Are you in church at the moment? No, at work. What's that noise in the background? No, it's something else at work. Okay. Oh. Qualifications? Bell ringer. Sally. French word meaning a giant to Sally. Like a verb. Yes, it was. The french word is salure. Salure. And then it becomes a sally. Well, do you know, oddly enough, that brings us back to both the Normandy church towers. And I wonder, when bells first appeared, was it after the. There'll be part of the answer to that, won't it? Would have actually involved bells. I didn't realize at the time. A square tower. You can put bells in. Anyway, I'm just waffling. Giles, you get a round of applause for a beautiful answer. Thank you. No, thank you. Get back to work. Seriously, this country isn't going to run itself. Steve's in Horsham. Steve, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Your question about why does babies roll their bottom lip or curl their bottom lip when they're crying? When they're crying. I was told this by a midwife many years ago when I was having my son's vaccinations done, that the reason they curl their bottom lip when they're crying is because, due to this, all the emotions going through them at that moment, it helps the mother soothe them when she latches them on. It helps them latch onto their mother. Otherwise, if they didn't roll their bottom lip, they couldn't get soothed by a bottle or by mum and they wouldn't be able to feed and relax themselves. I'm buying that. Why are you laughing? That's what she told me. Because it might be true, might be a load of ill nonsense. But you try suck. You try. Pardon me, Sheila Fogarty, but you try sucking a teat without curling your bottle. I've watched your face for the last 30 seconds and I'm going to leave that to you, if that's okay. Yeah, carry on, Steve. Round of applause and do you know, that's brought us in bang on 1259. Except we haven't done the. We've done them all, except the bed. There's a biblical reference to Sheila Ferguson when Joseph went to visit Jacob when he was dying. Pick up your bed and walk. Yeah. Was that the first recorded mention of a bed? Certainly. In. Well, anyway, it's not enough for a round of applause. That's it from me for another day. Thank you for a lovely show. We'll do it all again tomorrow from ten here at Sheila folk. Thanks very much, James.