Where am I allowed to be naked?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It's four minutes after twelve crept up on me. Somewhat mystery out there, concerned with, dare I say? Well, of course I will. Considerably more important matters all morning, but that is often the way on a Thursday. This is now your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you're not familiar with this feature, then strap in because you in for a little bit of a treat. But it is very, very different from the other 14 hours of the week that we spend together. Or 15, of course, if you listen to the full disclosure podcast, I've got two crackers coming up for you with two amazing women, by the way, Amanda Abington, who's on your screens at the moment, of course, and Carol Vorderman next week, who is every bit as exciting in person as she is on screen. So do make sure you download both of those. Now, I have a prize for the best contribution on mystery hour this week and indeed every week. That prize is altogether now a mystery hour board game. I kid you not. Radio's favorite feature has spawned its very own boxed game and you can get your hands on your own copy by being brilliant. This week. It's entirely up to me. The full terms and conditions are at LBC co dot UK. My decision is final, as they say, and sort of grown up. Proper competitions. You can buy it, of course, so don't worry if you don't win one. You can go to mysteryhour dot co dot UK comma, or you can find it on Amazon or in many, many shops, including John Lewis. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Should we start? Do we need any rules? I mean, don't look anything up. That's the only rule. If you hear someone ask a question, don't google it or get your encyclopedia out because that makes a mockery of the whole thing. I think that's it. So let's start. Jar is in Colchester. Jar. Question or answer? I've got a question. Please, James, carry on. I want to know, why do I jiggle my leg when I'm sat down? Oh, you mean a sort of evolutionary or a biological advantage or something or explanation? Well, I think the obvious answer would be that some people have ADHD and that people with ADHD tend to kind of have more energy and jiggle their legs. But I want a bit more in depth and, yeah, there's a thing called restless leg syndrome. Yeah, yeah. My parents used to say that to me all the time. Do you do it a lot? Because I was one of my, one of my girls said to me the other day, dad, stop jiggling your foot. And my dad does it as well. Yeah. And I pointed at her and she was jiggling her foot at exactly the same time as well, which is, I thought, rather beautiful proof that you don't know that you're doing it, do you? Yeah. So why do some people fidget more than others, really, is the question. Yeah. And I guess, yeah, no, some fidgeting could be like picking your fingers and stuff, like. But it's like, it's that drumming. The drumming or the jiggling that we're talking about. Specific, rhythmic fidgeting. Yeah. And I guess maybe why do some people fidget more than others, is the question. Yeah. No, I like it. I mean, I'm mild. I'd say I was above average, but I'm no near kind of notable in my fidgeting habits. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Thank you. Jar. Deborah's in Swanscomb. Deborah, question or answer? It's a question. But first of all, well done on mastermind. Oh, thank you. I don't like. You are amazing. Oh well. Oh, please. Gosh. Thank you, Debra. I tell you what, focused is the word. Focused. You didn't flinch, you didn't move. No, terrified is the word, actually, Deborah. But I'm glad it looked more like. Glad it looked like focused. It was unbelievable. Okay. Right. The question is, why do we not fall out of bed? Now? I'm not saying that people don't. My partner did once, years ago, fell out. Crash, bang, wallop. And I was more concerned that he'd broken our lamp. Yes, of course. But in general. And you adapt. I'm in a king size bed, but I've been in AAA single. I've even been on a camp bed. Never fallen out of bed in my sleep. So what is it that stops you falling off the edge of a bed? I like that. Had your partner had a few drinks on the night that he fell out? No, he hadn't. No, he hadn't. No. If he had, I mean, you know. But it was. The lamp was okay, by the way. That's the main thing, isn't it? I like it. You know, I tried to. Clive Murray asked me about the mystery hour on. You saw that bit. But he mentioned the game as well. I mentioned the game and they cut it out in the edit. I thought I smuggled in a mention of the board game on the BBC. You can never do that. Kind of thing. But they saw me coming from 100 miles away, Deborah. And that ended up on the cutting room floor. Why don't we fall. Why don't we fall out of bed more, I presume. But we have some subconscious. We notice. Cause you notice when you get into the edge of the bed, don't you? Or you. Well, you do if you're only drifting off to sleep. But when you're asleep, when you're absolutely in Nyla land, deep, deep sleep stops you, then. Yeah. Just rolling over and hitting the floor. We shall find out, Deborah. We shall find out. Thank you. And thank you for the kind words as well. Thank you, everybody who has. You know, me, mister modesty. I don't like to dwell on my achievements, but that was a very wonderful, very, very wonderful experience. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. Two Deborah's. Look at that. You wait all morning for one Deborah to come along, and then there's two coming along at once. And this one is in Pocklington. Deborah, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on. And I would like to know why the earliest spring flowers are overwhelmingly yellow or white. I'm talking native. So we've got snowdrops, aconites, primroses and then daffodils. And they're always yellow and white. And the purple ones always come in a bit later. And I just wondered, is there a scientific reason for that? The first lot of snowdrops are just glorious, aren't they? Aren't they? They're magical, actually. You sort of can't quite believe that they're natural. It's almost like an artist has come down and painted them or something like that. And they're popping up in the strangest places. And when you get a whole carpet of them, there's nothing like it. They're beautiful. I'm looking out on some right now. Oh, well, I'm not. I'm looking at Keith. You win that competition, maybe if you turn Keith over, he might look beautiful. Let's not get carried away. When did the bluebells kick in? Remind me. When the blue bells. The bluebells are after, you see? So the blue bells are after the daffodils start. That's right. So, yellow and white open the. Open the batting with yellow and white. Is there a reason? It could just be coincidence, couldn't it? Maybe we shall find out for you, Deborah. Thank you all. No, thank you very much. So, we want to know about falling out of bed and why the first flush of flowers every spring, or even early pre spring, end of winter, are always yellow and white. So three f's. It's three f's. Keith fidgeting, falling out of bed and flowers. I love that. Two Deborah's and three f's. 1211 is the time. Rob is in Petersfield. Rob, question or answer? It's a question. Yes. About skin. Oh. I want to know why. When you're in the bath or you're washing your hand or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. You don't absorb the water, but if you put on a nicotine patch or a painkilling gel or whatever, it all says it's absorbed through the skin. Yeah. How does the skin. How does that get through? When water doesn't. But it does absorb water. Well, you don't. You don't have a bath and then come out two stone heavier because you absorbed all the water. You come out wrinkly. Yes. Why do you think that? Well, because I reckon because the water is washing away the skin oils and things. Yeah. Because it's obviously not going through. It is going through. Skin cells absorb water. That's why you go wrinkly. It's plumped up skin. Right. Okay, so you do, do you? Yeah, you do that. You do that. Don't. Are you sure? I'm pretty well, yes, I am sure, actually. Qualification? I am the world authority on osmosis. Okay. You don't know why I did that, do you? No. You're quite a new listener to the mystery, aren't you? A year or so on and off. Yeah. So hardcore listeners were waiting for that to happen whenever that word is mentioned, because there was a brief period, Rob, where my arrogance and stubbornness brought. Prevented me from ever admitting that I didn't know the answer to a question. At which point I would almost always suggest that if it was a scientific question that I didn't understand, then the answer would be osmosis. Right. Doesn't go off then, because that wasn't an open play. So that I understand your question. You don't see it going in like you do with cream or you don't feel the effects of it like you do with nicotine, but you do genuinely have. You do absorb. If you're in water, if you're swimming, you absorb water, you just do. So I'm taking a round of applause for that. Right, okay. All right, Rob. I'll have to trust you. Yeah, well, you will. I have to trust you. I'm not convinced. What do you mean you're not convinced? What? You tell me why your skin goes all lumpy. That's why I rang up, to see if someone who knows about these things would ring in and give the answer. Well, I mean, I do know about these things. I don't know quite what else I can do. It only really goes into the outer most layer of the skin, otherwise you'd be absorbing it all the way into your body. I think it's got something to do with keratin. Does that help? A fancy word. A fancy scientific word. It's a word. I don't know it. There you go. It's all about the keratin. Rob, just swap on your keratin, you'll be golden. I have my round of applause. Can I have it, please? Thank you. Because it's not even a technical answer. You said, why does skin not absorb water? And I said, well, it does. I don't need to be Professor Howe in order to harvest that. Round of applause. 1214 is the time. Mystery hour is the game. LBC is the place to be. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1217. There's a little bit of squabbling on the water question, which surprises me. Although someone has found some evidence in the mystery hour archive that we've previously accepted the opposite answer is definitive, which means that's we haven't had any complaints yet about the board game having completely wrong answers being offered up as the right answers. So I don't know whether that one made the board game, but. Oh, hey, anyway, we may leave that one just on the list, actually, the water question. I'm not giving back my round of applause yet, but we will wait and see. Flowers. Why the first flush of flowers every season? Yellow or white? Why do we never fall out of bed? And why do some people fidget so much? Alex is in Stoke Newington. Alex, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. It's about beetroot. I know where we're going, Alex. Yeah, we did asparagus yesterday. This is a similar. A similar subject, but not identical. No, no, that's. Yeah, I'd go with that. Yeah. Beetroots. Yes. The color of beetroot seems to make it through one system, doesn't it? When you're preparing beetroots, when you wash your hands, the stain comes off very quickly. You don't need to scrub or use lemon juice or anything like that. But when you eat black cherries or blackberries or lots of other darkly colored things, they do stain your fingers and your teeth and your lips more than be true, I would say. And yet, in my experience, and I must admit, I've not looked at anybody else's. That's another example of the patriarchy. Because men can often, if they were so minded to, they could often sort of have a quick butchers at what was emerging from other men. But the way that lavatories, public lavatories are arranged, it's not an option for women. Which is probably just as well. I have to admit, I'm surprised that your slowing men can. Well, we will do it in a line next to each other. Forward, yes, but not backwards. No, but you cannot. You only have to glance to the left or the right to see what someone else is up to be. Truth does make it through the front as well. It does, yeah. I'm only talking about. I'm only talking about the front, Alex. No, no, but we've got. No, no, just the front. We're talking about the front. Also, remember, people are eating their lunch. Some people might even be having beetroot. Carry on. Yeah, no, I'm trying to be. I know it's my fault. Sorry. I shouldn't have brought it. So why. Why is. Yeah, well, why beetroot and not. I know. I know this. I know this. But I feel good. Oh, good. If you welcome me, having it is. The answer is bettanin or betonin, which is. I don't know what the correct word is, whether it's an enzyme or just a pigment. But it doesn't get broken down by your kidneys, so it's got nothing to do with whether you can wash it off your hands or not. That's a completely different proposition. That the. Whatever pigment is in a cherry or a black currant is broken down by your kidneys, whereas betanin isn't, which means it passes all the way through, which means your wee comes out pink. And the other side. I don't know about the other. I don't even know. We don't think that goes through your kidneys. Well, I don't know about that. I don't want to think about that. I don't know that. Come on. I mean, it's just one bodily function at a time, Alex. Well, you are the one that concentrated on the pee. I wasn't actually talking about that, to be honest. Really bothered you? I don't want to talk about the other. Oh, okay. So. Man. Yeah, but it's 12:20 I mean, it would go through. It would be. I mean, because, you know, it's going through your stomach. It's getting blasted with stomach acid. It goes through your mouth. It gets blasted with saliva. There's all sorts of stuff happening to it. Yeah. And yet it comes out. I don't know. I don't. Very red, does it? We have to warn people, because this is the passion for putting vegetables in cakes. So people would like. Be like, oh, do you want some lovely cake? And you don't love your cake. And then it would turn out the next day that the cake had beetroot in it. But it was good. And everyone thought they had Internet. Everyone thought they had internal bleeding. That's right. So you didn't think you had cancer. You would say, that is not just chocolate, it's beetroot and chocolate. All right, I'm going to leave it on the board and I hope someone can answer it in a more delicate fashion. I thought I'd done a good job and it may well be, if it's specifically the pigment that doesn't get broken down. That's it. I'll buy that. But. But why doesn't it work out the other end? All right, then. Okay. Okay, I. Thank you. Thanks. Take care of. I don't think that you did. I think I did, probably. Dan. Dan is in sandbag. She says beetroot for lunch. James Chance would be a fine thing. If you've got a decent beetroot supplier that's not rationing at the moment, then do let the rest of us know. We'll be all right with beetroots, mate. We'll be living on them. We'll be like Baldrick out of. Out of Blackadder. Also, I love beetroot. I don't know if you've had the horseradish infused beetroot that you can get in the supermarkets. There's two. You can get chilli or horseradish, and they are delicious. John's in Brighton. John, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Why do men put their arms above their heads when they're sitting on the sofa? To relax. Yeah. Is that it? And I've sat in the sofa with my. With my father in law and my brother and we're all sitting here with that hand on top of our head. Yeah. We've got no idea why. Come on. Come on, big boy. You must have the answer for this. Am I talking rubbish or not? No, I mean, I think that there's an. There's an unknown spoken bit of the question. Because you're suggesting that women don't do it, are you? Yeah, yeah. I'm saying I don't think women do it. But why do we do it in the first place. Keith's mom. Keith's mom does it. Keith's mum does it. John. Right. So we literally sit there and think we're chilled out with a hand on top of our head, thinking it's normal. Well, I did it once. I was on stage once and I do it. I do it when I'm thinking. I stroke my head with both hands. Well, I was told by someone who was in the audience, it was at a book festival. So it was someone clever. I can't remember who it was. And it's something to do with focusing, drawing focus to your brain. It's like a kind of what? Your hands, focusing your brain. Holding your head. Yeah. I've walked your hands up holding your head. No, but your arms rested on your head. Oh, you're not rubbing then? You're just. You're just resting. So it's a relaxer. You're not doing it during a bout of heavy thinking then? No. I don't know if you watch. Sit down on your tv. Yeah. Or you're watching tv on the sofa and you just rest your hand on the bottom like that. Why? Why? Well, you're having a bit of a stretch, aren't you? No, that's not the answer, is it? It might, but yeah, I'm just doing it now and I'm trying to analyze my bodily reactions and I'm feeling. Oh, that's nice. Oh, no, it's not easy. You're stretching. It's like having a scratch, but it's a stretch. That's nice. So. So why do men do it, not women? I just told you. Keith's mom does it. That's the first person in the whole planet who does it. She's a groundbreaking individual. In so many ways, she's unique. I wish. She's a one off. And so is Keith. I will try and find out for you. All right. Thank you. Thank you, John. Mind. There you go. 25 minutes after twelve. Why do people, but men in particular, rest their hands on their head when they are enjoying a television program of an evening? And it's not the one about brains and Gary. It's certainly not covering my bald patch. How dare you? Asher is in Bristol. Asher, question or answer? Hi there. Yeah, it's an answer. Carry on, Asher. So, as to the flowers. Question. The majority of pollinators at this time of year are sort of like various species of fly which lack color vision. But obviously yellow and white are the most reflective and therefore attract them the most still. Ah. So it's the. It's the pollinator. So the evolutionary relationship between the pollinator and the pollen. Yeah, exactly. Means that the insects that are doing the pollinating in at this time of year are going to spot the white and yellow stuff a lot more easily than they would any other colors. So they come up first and get pollinated. Yeah, exactly. As opposed to sort of like bigger animals, which do have color vision and other pollinator like species. That's a lovely answer. Qualifications? I'm doing a wildlife conservation degree. Well, I bet you never thought it'd come in so useful, did you, Asher? No. A round of applause for Asher, please. Thank you. Thank you. That's a lovely one. TK's in Dartford. Question or answer? TK. Question. Carry on. Um. You know the euro millions? I do, yeah. Yeah. Two pound, 50 a ticket? Yes. Yeah. I think the odds are, I think, 16 million or 16 and a half million or something to one. I have to take your word for it. I don't. Yeah, but when the jackpot goes over 150 million. Yeah. If I buy every ticket for. For. For 16 million, that'll only cost me about 40 million, won't I be in profit? Yeah. That's an interesting question. I don't really understand it. But, I mean, where are you getting the odds of 16 and a half million from? Well, I mean, you can't say. I think they do. I mean, you surely, in order to do. They do tell you what the odds are. Right? The odds of winning euromillion. They do tell you. Right. And I'm sure it's 16 million to one, or something like that. In which case you could buy 16 million tickets, every single possible permutation, and be guaranteed a share of the prize. You wouldn't be guaranteed all of it, would you? Because somebody else could get the. That's the gamble. But if it goes over 100 million, you've got it. No, because it's like, it's one in about 140 million to get the jackpot on the euro million. The 16 and a half is what you've got wrong. Oh. So is it the national lottery? That's 16. I don't know. I'm not Google. I'm not here to help you understand how lottery tickets work. I'm just here to answer the question of whether you can buy so many tickets that you're guaranteed to win the jackpot. And there are two reasons for my skepticism, TK. The first is that the odds sounded pretty generous to me there, for such. For such a massive victory. And the second reason is that if it were possible. Someone would have bloody done it, mate. That's true. Applause for me. Aaron's in Collindale. Aaron. Question or answer? I like that. Hi, James, I've got a question for you. Carry on. How do they clean the windows on the outside of the gherkin? Why? I presume it's the gherkin specifically that has intrigued you rather than skyscrapers in general. Yeah. You know, you get those skyscrapers and they've got the lifts on the outside to the window. Like gondolas. Gondolas, almost, yeah. How'd you get that on the gherkin? Why would you not be able to get it on the gherkin? Because it's curved. Yeah. Well, couldn't you just get a curved one? Do they do curved ones? Well, you would if you can afford to build a gherkin. You can afford to knock out a couple of curved gondolas, can't you? Maybe you can. I sort of thought this is the question that somebody listening will know. That's why I like it as a question. So, well, ideally, there's a Ray Liotr up for glarabs here, if someone actually cleans the windows of the gherkin. Yeah. Isn't it? I don't know how they'd prove it. I know how they'd prove it. They'd answer my carefully honed, spur of the moment questions. That's how we do it. You're on. Yeah. I shall find out for you. Or hopefully I will. 12:30 is the time. How do they clean the windows on the gherkin? Why do we put our hands on our head when we're relaxing? Beetroot passing through the body. There's room for a bit of improvement on that, then. We've done the flowers. Why don't we fall out of bed? And why do some people fidget so much more than others? Tim Humphrey is here now with your headlines. It's 1234. I'm just going to tweet a story from the Irish Independent that Niall O'Connor has just sent to me. It goes back to June of 2017, although the story goes back further than that. And it is TJ. You're going to love this. TJ was just asking about whether or not he could sort of game the lottery. It was possible it wouldn't be possible on the euro millions, for the reasons that we explored together. But this is just an incredible story. I'm amazed it hasn't been turned into a film, actually, but I've just retweeted it now, so that's some lovely lunchtime reading for you about how a secret syndicate managed to buy the lotto. Back to mystery Brad's in Chelmsford. Brad. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. What is the height limit of a nudist beach? Is this a proper question or are you setting up a joke? No, no, no. This is a question. So my original question was, could you skydive naked over a nudist beach? Right? And I got into your producer back and forth about the legalities of whether you could actually skydive naked. But why would there be a height limit? What do you mean, a height limit? Well, how high could you go? Because obviously you can be naked on a nudist beach. How high can you go? I thought you meant the height limit for people. I thought you meant they didn't let little people. Or you could be too tall. The actual. The actual environment itself. How high could you go up on Anuda's beach before it's deemed illegal? And if there's no height limit, then could you skydive? Why would it be illegal? It's not illegal to skydive naked, is it? Depends where you land. Well, everyone keeps saying that. It's gotta be illegal to skydive naked. It's not illegal to skydive naked if you land in a field, what are you gonna get arrested for in the middle of nowhere? So if you see you with your stuff flapping about as you come down. Yeah, but that's not. I mean, you're only gonna get arrested if you're doing it in an area where that is likely to cause offence, which is pretty much everywhere, isn't it? It's everywhere where there are people. The fellow, the naked rambler, only really gets arrested when he goes near schools or gets onto public transport. I mean, it's not funny. It's changed now, but there's no basic law against nudity. Okay, then you might as well ask, is there a height limit above changing rooms? If you've got an outdoor changing room at the swimming bath and someone is coming down in a parachute. I mean, it's just. I don't accept the premises of your question, as Liz Truss would say. Okay? There is no height restriction on nudity on a nudist beach. There is not a point above a nudist beach at which it becomes unacceptable to be naked. You're 100% sure on that? Absolutely 100% sure. What have you got planned, Brad? Nothing got planned. I was just curious. I woke up one morning and just thought, there's got to be an answer. You could do a sponsored naked skydive. If it's legal, why not? You could just cover your parts with your hands, couldn't you? I mean, we've done phone ins about the naked rambler and it's surprisingly nuanced. It's not that being naked is, in and of itself illegal, it is that, because otherwise there'd be an age limit on it as well, wouldn't they? You wouldn't be able to change nappies in public. But it is that there is a kind of circumstances in which the authorities might think you're breaching the peace or issuing a disturbance. So, generally, if you're going to land in the middle of a, I don't know, notting Hill carnival, you probably get into trouble. Or maybe not notting hill carnival. Actually, you'd fit in pretty well. If you were to land in the middle of a football game or something, you'd probably get into trouble. But if you were to land in the middle of a field, you'd be fine. So there's no particular law. There can't be. They can't be. They just can't. I'm taking a round of applause. I don't care if I'm wrong. Yeah, I'll give you that. Thank you very much. And stay safe. Don't do it. Seriously. If you do, make sure you get a lot of sponsorship. Kieran's in Dublin. Kieran. Question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. I'm just wondering, why does it take so long for people to be buried in the UK after they pass away? So, over here, the average is three to four, including if a post mortem has to take place in the rest of Europe. It seems to be about five to seven days. Why does it take three to four weeks in the UK for people to about it? That's quite a morbid question. Thanks. But, I mean, are you sure of the numbers? Because it's not. It's not a thing I know a lot about. Yeah, but, I mean, you heard of you, to hear of people say that unforgi. Passed away in the news and then the funeral would be three to four weeks later. Yeah. And. No, I mean, you're right. I mean, if it's on the news, maybe. Well, I don't know, is England is or Britain the UK is. But what is noticeably longer than everywhere else in Europe? Yeah. Oh, I never. Okay. I mean, it takes a long time to organize, Kieran. I'd have thought, how come then everyone else can. We can organize it over here in three to four days, including the post mortem. Well, I don't. I mean, I was thinking about people having to get over there and having to, you know, take the time off work and just arrange it a bit in advance, just the same everywhere else. You're not unique, James. No, you're right. I know. Spirit, exceptionalism. It's like Brexit all over again, isn't it? We don't have to obey the rules that everybody else obeys, like time and space. I never knew this. It's the first time anyone's mentioned it to me. I can't quite believe it. All right, you're on. Why do funerals in England take so much longer than in Ireland? And indeed, it would appear almost everywhere else. I think some religious funerals, some religions do their funerals much quicker. So obviously that's not an answer to this question. We're doing a general, like, average times or generalisations, two to three weeks in England and two to three days in Ireland. Why? 20 minutes to one is the time Chris is in Streatham. Chris, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Right. The way you would say, clean the gherkin. The windows. At the gherkin, it's a cross between the window cleaners absailing down, and also does a cradle cleaning window system. So there's a rail that runs around the top of the building and the cradles are suspended from this rail and they go up and down. The window cleaners go up and down in these cradles cleaning the windows. And how does that cradle differ from a cradle on a flat fronted building? Right, because the gherkin is round. It runs around on a rail around the top, so it goes round, whereas. So they're dangling from it rather than standing in it. There are two systems. Some of the windows are clean from a cradle and the ones right at the top are clean via app sailors qualifications. I'm a building manager. Yeah, well, I'm an engineering building manager and I've just applied for dub at the Gherkin. Is that enough? Well, I've been doing this for the last. I might apply for it for a job as a Eurovision song contest presenter. But a. It doesn't mean quite as easy as that. Someone's got to replace Ken Bruce. I used to be the engineering manager at Broadgate Tower, where they had a window cradle system, but that's not a curly. Is broad gate tower curved? No, it's 35 stories high and it's flat fronted. But it's a similar system where they clean the windows from a cradle or via abseilus coming down from the top. It's the rap system. When did you find out whether you got the job or not? Well, in a couple of weeks time, I'll come back and I'll let you know. Yeah, seriously, good luck. I hope this, this might swing it. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. Remember, both me. Thank you. Rob's in Taunton. Rob, question or answer? Hi, James, nice to meet you again. This time, no fobbing off of your answers, if that's okay. So, yeah, so this question is around owls and the size of their legs compared to their bodies. So they have very long legs, which most people, a lot of people don't know unless you actually look at them. So I don't know the evolution reasons for it. Normally, I guess, birds with long legs are either weighed in water or they can run fast. Now, I've never seen an owl running after a mouse in a field, for example. And equally, they're just very odd. If I plucked, say, a chicken. Yes. You'd probably think that it looked still like a chicken, where you would do. Or a penguin. You think that's a penguin? You would. If I. If I. If I presented a shaved owl to you? Yes. You might think, what on earth that is? I don't know. Baby owls look like aliens, don't they? And they. Before they've grown or something, or. Yeah. So I don't know the reason why they have such long legs, because they don't. They didn't seem to need them. Well, I disagree. Okay. When did you last see the penguin catch a large mammal in its talons? But I've seen other eagles and things have, comparatively to the size of their legs, to their bodies, shorter legs. Yeah, but I mean, it's. It's much of a muchness now, isn't it? If we're thinking about swooping down and catching something, then you're gonna need quite long legs. Like I said, I don't want to be fobbed off this. It's not fobbing off, it's just true. If they can. I mean, you know, if they. Owls can catch things that are surprisingly large, and you'd have to have quite long leg. I mean, maybe it's even the musculature of the leg that propels the talons at sufficient speed to catch the little blighter that they're going to have for their dinner. I'm not going to take a round of applause because I just can't think of many circumstances in which owls have to run fast. Which would be another no. They can just take off without having to. Some birds, I guess, you see them take a couple of steps to take off. Yeah, I'm pretty certain, because I'm thinking about what's remarkable about owls and it is their hunting skills. So it's almost certain to be linked to hunting, but I can't nail it down. But they're very, very long. Yeah, well, they're very good hunters, but they're almost too long. Well, I mean, they can't be too long, can they? Otherwise, I mean. I mean, also, who made you the owl police? It's a question you can't go around telling owls their legs are too long. But. I know, but that complex. But there'll be. There'll be an evolution answer to no. And it'll be hunting. I'm pretty sure it'll be hunting, but we need someone who sounds a bit more convincing than I do, or at least has more factors at their fingertips than I do on that. I love owls, I really do. I know that sounds a bit Alan Partridge, but if I had to choose between owls and otters, that'd be a tough one. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 it's 1249. We need some answers, don't we? Why do some people fidget more than others? Why don't we fall out of bed more? The skin absorbing water question may be improvable. I'm taking the beetroot answer now. Why do we put our heads, hands on our head? Have we done any answers? What's happened this week? We put our hands on our head when we relax, especially men. We've done the Gherkin windows, we've done the new disputes. Why do funerals in England take two to three weeks when in Ireland it's two to three days? And why do owls have such long legs? If you can answer any of those, you're going straight into the mystery hour archives. Matt's in Solihull. Matt, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. It's an answer to why do we or men put their hands on their heads? So I was in a training course once and I did this. It was a body language training course. And the trainer said to me, what do we think Matt's body language is saying now? It was saying that I felt relaxed, I felt in control and I felt unthreatened. So if groups of guys are together, watching tv, having a good time, we tend to just pop our hands on the top of our heads, because we're safe in each other's company and we might do it if we get a question right, because we all feel triumphant and relaxed and in control. So that's what we do. So we're signalling to the group that you are safe with me as much as the other way around, aren't we? Because that would be the, you know, like yawning, I think, has a similar revolutionary process. It shows the people in front of you that there's nothing behind them. Because you're yawning. Yes. You're presenting your chest to someone, your arms are up, you're in a vulnerable position because your arms are in the air and therefore you are safe from me. You are all safe. Let's enjoy the telling. Let's enjoy the telling. It's a good question. That, wasn't it from John in Brighton. I like it. Yeah. The irony is I was doing it when he asked the question, so I instantly had to rush for the phone. So you weren't relaxed? Oh, too relax. What are you relaxing for? You're supposed to be on a training session. Have Matt a round of applause, I think, from that. Beautifully done. Gary's in Dundee. Gary, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about the nudist beach. Oh, yes. Okay, first of all, I'm a member of british naturism and I'm a naturist. Yes. Are you naked now? Not at the moment, because I'm doing DIy work. Very wise. No, you wouldn't want to get a good idea. Absolutely not. Nor pliers. Carry on. Okay. Back in April 2018, the law was clarified by the UK Office of National Police, National Police College. I always get. That's all right, don't worry. The law that's been accepted is public nudity in pursuit of a lawful activity, not illegal. Yes. Okay, now, this. That applies to, in general, to Scotland, Wales and England. Yes. There's three caveats to that. Right? There can't be any sexual activity, otherwise you'll be arrested and that would apply whether you're naked or not. Quite right, too. If you're mentally ill, again, you'd be arrested for your own safety. And again, that would apply whether you make it or not. Yes, I understand. The final one would be, there must not be an intent to cause fear and alarm. And that's where the naked rambler sometimes gets into trouble. No, the naked rambler has never been arrested for being naked. No, he's been arrested for causing fear and alarm. He actually. He wasn't going to be arrested. He was actually finally arrested for refusing a lawful instruction from the policeman. And he was then taken to court for that? Yes. Yes. Because he refused. If he even got along a country, that's it. If he was walking along a country road, it would have been no problem. But because he chose to go down a high street, there was a risk of causing fear and alarm. So all of this, I mean, I'm just hurrying you along because there's quite a lot of answers to get through. So, I mean, in short, there's nothing to stop you skydiving onto. You just beat them as high as you want. There's naked rugby teams, there's naked football teams, there's naked everything. Yeah. Do you play football? No. I do hill walking. Tennis. Tennis. What happens when they say, new balls, please? I'd sell for the old ones. Either ones are no use to me of my age. A big round of applause for Gary, please, and good luck with the diY. 1253 is the time. Jane's on the Wirral. Jane, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Actually, it's a correction as well. Yeah. It's going to be the skin one, isn't it? It is, I'm afraid, very, very quickly, without getting very technical, the outer layer of your skin, the stratum corneum, is waterproof. And it's waterproof because it's got. It's basically got some dead, flat skins, cells called cornea sites, and they're in a mortar. That is lipids. Okay? Yes. Mixture of cholesterol and ceramides and a few other bits and pieces. And basically they stop you evaporating. You're mostly water. And if you haven't got a waterproof outside layer, you dehydrate very quickly. So that's. That layer is hydrophobic. It's totally hydrophobic. So the interesting question is the nicotine patches work because nicotine is oil soluble. They get through it. If you sat in the bath and you didn't have that layer by that process for the drum roll osmosis, you would eventually explode. Yeah. Got it. So you do absorb some, basically the cornice dry dead cells, and they'll soak water up so they'll swell. It all get wrinkly because there's not enough room for them. But it won't go through. But it won't go through. It will go through the lipid layer. There it is. That's a beautiful answer. And the nicotine goes through to take the question right back to source because it is. Because it's oil soluble. Qualifications well, I've got a PhD in biophysics and about 25 years ago I wrote several papers on skin structure, so I think that's a Ray Liotta. Come on. We haven't done one for a while. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to Ryan on LBC. Sorry. Build it. They will come. Have you had one before, Jay? Have I had a Ray Liotta? No. Well, there you go. Keep it safe. Okay. Mind how you go. 1255 is the time Colin is in Warrington. Question or answer? Colin James, how are you to the funeral? Question. Go on. Okay. It's a combination of two things, really, and it's basically down to simply as a waiting list. So there's actually a backlog in the waiting list for post mortems here and compared to Ireland, but also. Absolutely. And also the church side of things, there are absolutely more priests in Ireland, okay, to perform the ceremonies for funerals. You can't swing a cat in Ireland without hitting a priest. There you go. So that's just because it's just the speed of the conveyor belt. Without being too glib about it, you got, in a nutshell, absolutely. And you know what? The reason why I know this is because I actually asked an undertaker in Ireland, my father died two years ago. I was home for the funeral and I said to the undertaker, I said, why does it take so long in England to have a bloody funeral compared to here? Because my father died on Saturday morning and he was buried on Monday. There you go. And he said to me exactly what I said to you. He told me exactly the way I told it to you. Qualifications as well. Colin, my condolences. But, you know, on the upside, here's a round of applause. Thank you. Mind how you go. Thank you for that. Also, another Irishman asked me how I am. And I say, without even pausing, grand. I never say that to anybody else, how are you? Very well, thank you. How are you? Very well, thank you. How are you? Very well, thank you. How are you? Grand. James in Shropshire. Jim Questioner. Question or answer? James, your irish accent is appalling. How dare you? I don't name O'Brien. I'm flipping them. As irish as they come, as irish as Dick Van Dyke. Carry on. Anyway, so the topping and fidgeting and shaking thing, that's a sign of a nervous energy. Yes. So people are. It's when people have got worries, they're preoccupied about something and they don't quite know how to manage. It doesn't have to be something huge, just whatever you're preoccupied with. And so basically the fingertip and what have you just gives you. It's just a release of nervous energy. And the best way of managing that is to find a displacement activity, which is frequently a rhythmical activity or even a mathematical activity, just to move your mind out of its. Well, something like, for instance, netting, which was started by fishermen making nets. Interesting. Always in a hut. They still do it in Cornwall. Now, if you go to Cornwall, you will frequently find groups of fishermen and huts and sheds just weaving nets, often singing. Got it. And it's just. It's just moving something away. I'm going to run out of time. I'm going to run out of time. Jim, what are your qualifications? I'm a social worker. Upset LG is. Oh, fantastic. Have a round of applause. I know a couple of callers have mentioned hypermobility as well, which would be another explanation that is more physiological than psychological. I'm gonna give it to John, who asked the question about putting your hands on your head because he was such a jolly fellow. That was my favorite question. It wasn't when he asked it, but it turned out after Matt provided the answer, it turned out to be my favorite question today. So congratulations to. It's a sign. If you put your hands on your head, particularly men, and you're telling all the other men in the room that they're safe and you're safe, you're all safe, because you can't. If you're going to attack me. Ah, right. It's like yawning. If I yawn now, I'm going to yawn. You just said the word yawn. I'm telling you that there's no one behind you because I'm yawning. That's how relaxed I am. I'm yawning. So you're safe as well. If we were all sitting around a campfire or something like that, we must do that sometimes. Cool and yawn. I'd like that. I'd like that. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player or on James O'Brien, the whole show podcast. You'll also find all of LBC shows to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcasts. Download global player for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom sawbrick with you at four. Sheila Fogarty not yawning with you now. Anyone behind me? No? Good to go. It's all clear. Carry on.