Why do birds stand on one leg?

On LBC, three minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery air is almost upon us. I just need to a little bit of housework first. I knew it wasn't just me in the last hour. Listen to this. Thanks for this hour, James. You've probably saved my marriage from Voitsec. Wow. I hope so. Happy to help. If you are not aware of it already, we now have a best of a free podcast every week. We'll definitely put in Michael's call to the program on that this week. You'll be able to download it at some point tomorrow, ordinarily speaking, although tomorrow is going to be such an extraordinary day. Sue me if it's a little late going up. And that is quite a remarkable response, isn't it, to conversations that were truly incredible. Time now, though, to return to business as usual, to return to the weekly cornucopia of information, education, and enlightenment that we call mystery hour. The whos, the whys, the whats, the wheres, the whens, the withers, and the wherefores. Seriously, if youre new to this, the way it works is thus, you know, the newspaper articles, magazine features where someone writes in and says, why do we do this? What's the origin of that? Where does that come from? Why do they do that? Why does he do this? Why does she think that? Who, why, what, where, when, whither, wherefore, whence? And then over a period of days, weeks, or sometimes even months, other people write in with the answers. This is the 21st century bang up today interactive version of that. You've got a question, you ring in with it. Somebody else listening knows the answer. They ring in with the answer. Now, if that sounds simplistic or even perhaps dry, you're in for a big surprise, because this hour of the program comes with two cast iron guarantees that have never, ever been broken. The first is that you will know more by 01:00 than you do now. Might not be information you're grateful for or ever find remotely useful, but in terms of the sum total of the knowledge that you have, it will be greater by 01:00 today than it is now. Okay, second thing is that you will get a laugh out loud moment in the course of this hour. There'll be at least one. Last week we'd made that promise even before the first bout of travel news. This week, I don't know when it will be, but I know it will come. Okay, zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you've got a question you want to get on the board only two rules will see you excluded. If it's dull, and I'm afraid our judgment is final on that. As a general rule, I have to say that if it's to do with motoring, or if it's a question to which it's possible, only you will be interested in the answer, then you may be politely invited to move along. And if you sense that Caroline and Megan, because they're not quite as bull in a china shop as I am, if you sense that Caroline and Megan are politely inviting to move along, then please politely move along. And the second reason why your question might be respectfully rejected is repetition. If it's something that we can remember dealing with in the not too distant past, then we will invite you to move along as well. You can check our website if you want, we've got a lovely archive. Not just to check whether the question you've got on your mind has ever been asked before, but just a while away, a few hours yourself with a journey down mystery hours memory lane, and you can find that at LBC dot co dot UK. And hopefully that phrase there, mystery hours memory lane, is the closest I'll come to sounding like Alan Partridge between now and the end of today's broadcast. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Shall we get it up and running? You know the number. Same number for answers. Questions up, guarantees in place, dullness and repetition. Warnings issued. Let's get going. Dave's in big and hill. Dave. Question or answer? It's a question, please. Go on. Right. I am quite heavily tattooed. Oh, yeah. And a few weeks ago I had another one done and I was showing it to a few lads at work and they were asking all the usual questions, does it hurt? How much? And all that? And one of them said, what about when you die? All the artwork and all the money, just either going underground or up in flames. So jokingly I said, oh, no, it's all right, I'll leave my skin to one of my friends. And it kicked off the conversation we went into, like, you know, the sort of nazi lampshades of, you know, things like. And I just wondered if I could find somebody that would sort of skin me after I die, could I legally leave my skin to a friend or relative or whatever? Have you got a relative in mind? Is it your Auntie Mabel? A friend? Yeah. A certain friend would like my back hanging in their living room, I would think it. What, because they're big fans of tattoos or because they don't really like you very much? I would say, because fans of tattoos and because they're quite morbid. Yeah, fair enough. Telling me. So it's the legality of the situation that we're seeking to establish. I was just wondering if I could legally do it. Yeah, I can't see why you wouldn't be able to. I know you have to have a license to keep human remains because I know somebody that's got a shrunken head. Right. And he has to have a license. Should we drop mystery Aaron, just do an hour on Dave and his mates? Or should we save that for another day? So it's the simple legal pra. I can't get involved in helping you find someone to do it. No, no, no. Obviously, I was saying, you know, if I found somebody, if I sorted out all the practicalities of it. Yeah. Just. Would I legally be able to see why you wouldn't be able to? I mean, there was a fellow recent, I remember a great tale involving a. It was an aristocrat, a famous aristocrat who wanted to leave his body to Battersea dogs home as food. Well, I don't know if he. I think he was legally allowed to, but battersea dogs have decided it wouldn't necessarily be something they wanted to get involved with. But so, I mean, the correct word is flaying, isn't it? You want someone to flay you and then frame you. Yeah. What is your back like? Just talk us through the tats you've got Dave, will you? I've got a picture of my car. One of my cars. Yeah. Yeah. It's a. An old american, mid fifties american car. Lovely. That's all customized and lovely. I've got a pair of swallows up on the top of my shoulders with a scroll in between them. So it's a nice bit of work. Yeah. And a few other bits. And I'm still adding to it as well. There's, you know, I've got some other plans. So I love this. I go around your mates in a couple of decades, a long, long time hence, I hope. And you're looking at his walls and he's got, he's got some nice flying ducks like Hilda Ogden used to have in Coronation street. Then he's got his kids school photos on the other side of the map. And then right up above the fire, there's your, your recently skinned back. There you go. Yeah, well, it's on the list, Dave. Thank you. Thank you. Nine minutes after twelve is the time is Dave allowed legally to get himself skinned so he can leave his tattoos to his mate Jackson Hazelmir. Follow that, Jacko. Hello there. How you doing? Very well, indeed. What's on your mind? On my mind, basically. So it's a dialect question. It was an accident based question. It's in regards to the word herb, which obviously in English, a lot of english dialects, we loot, we drop our h's. It's quite standard and it's quite consistent. And in America, they don't do that. Never drop their h's. And in the word herb, they drop their h. It's pronounced herb. They never say herb. Do they always say herb and it's spelled with an h? It's not. I know it is. I know it is. It's like oregano. They just have a very different way of saying. I can understand those because that's like just pronouncing a vowel differently, but dropping a consonant is. It's an anomaly of the american accent because they don't. Anomaly of the american pronunciation more than accent pronunciation, rather. Yeah. Why is your question is going to be white. Yeah. Is what's the origins? Why they usually the origin is here, isn't it? Usually it's actually. Yes. It's one of those words that hasn't evolved from the shared base, pre Mayflower, but has evolved here. So I imagine that's the answer. How we would established that for certain, I'm not sure, but we do have a few sort of etymologists and linguistic linguists who listen and often provide answers to question like questions like yours. I've wondered it myself as well, because it is odd. There are, I can't think of any others where they do it. You know, it's not like hospital, is it? Or helicopter. It's all. It's just herb. It's an herb, obviously. English. Precisely. So there's no exceptions to it. It would be helicopter, hospital and herbs. But in America, it's helicopter, hospital and herbs. Herbs. I like it. How long have you been puzzling over this, Jack? Well, actually only a couple of days. I was here listening to you. Yeah. And it was obviously all EU based, very important, current stuff. I was like, wonder if we're getting a missed you out today because we were just discussing, me and one of my colleagues, we were discussing this pronunciation. Love it, love it, love it, love it. It's a mystery hour question. We nearly did three mystery house today, actually, given the regulations regarding the referendum, but I'm glad we didn't because the first 2 hours were so fascinating. That's a great question. Two great questions. What was that? What was the first caller's name? Was it? Dave, wasn't it? Yeah. Is Dave allowed to get himself skinned so that his mate can have his tattoos? And why do Americans say herb instead of herb? Paul's in Northolk. Paul, question or answer? Question, please, James. Yes. Just an easy one. You've had two great questions and now a little child's level one. I know my limits, mate. Just given today's weather, why do we say raining cats and dogs? I mean, I said to your researcher, in the Bible, there's a plague of frogs, I think. But why cats and dogs? Why do we say it? I like that. I think we might have done it before, but I can't remember the answer. And it seems very timely to do it today, doesn't it? So we'll leave it on the board. Why cats and dogs? Why is it raining cats? I know, I know the answer. I know the answer. Just let me have a think. Yeah, okay. Back in the day, when we were all sleeping under one roof, the, like in a kind of, you know, a very simple abode, the pets, the cats and the dogs would be sleeping in the roof area, and if the rain start coming out very heavily, they'd come down from the roof area inside. And there you would say it was raining cats and dogs, which meant it was really pelting it down outside. Nah. Yeah, man. Serious. Nah. Serious, man. Qualifications? Genius. Fair enough. I'll take that. I'm 95% sure. Qualifications, mystery hour. But you're not going to buy it, I can tell. So I'm going to have to leave it out there for someone who can provide a source material or something like that. Right. Cheers, James. Thank you. Good man. I'm pretty sure that's it, because just that bell tolled just as he was talking. Boom. In the back of my brain. But he's not buying it, so someone else will have to provide better qualifications. But I've got a feeling the answer is the same. Something for everybody today. Can Dave get himself skinned so that his mate can keep his tattoos? Why do Americans say herb for herb when they don't drop the h routini on any other word? And the origins of the phrase raining cats and dogs, please? Zero. 345-606-0973 Yvonne is in Sutton. Yvonne, question or answer? Hello. It's a question, please. It might be a bit of a simple one after all, those fantastic ones. Hang on. Cats and dogs is hardly the brain's trust, is it? Oh, no, but I've heard that answer before, so I think you're right. Yeah, me too. Me too. Anyway, carry on. Well, I was at the coast at the weekend. I noticed, and I've seen it before, that seagulls stand on one leg. And when I was younger, my parents kept ducks and geese and they all used to stand on one leg. And I just wondered why. Only when they're in the water. No, not when they're in the water. When they're out of the water. Only when they're near the water. It's only water birds that do it. Pigeons don't do it. And that's your answer right there? No, but why? Because you can swap legs when it gets cold, so it doubles the amount of time you can stay in the water on your leg. Hunting doesn't make sense. It's a brilliant answer. Think about it. If you had both legs in the water and they got too cold to stay in the water, you'd have to get out, right? Okay. If you're on one leg in the water and it gets too cold to stay in, like you swapped your other leg and you double the amount of time you can stay in the water on legs. But they were standing on the wall. What? Yeah, they were practicing on one leg. Practicing for when they're in the water. Okay, can we leave it up like a rehearsal for when they are in the water? No, it's totally true. It's totally true. Have you got any tattoos, Yvonne? No, I haven't. But I can't wait to find out what the answer is for that. All right, I've got two answers on the board now. No one's accepting them, so I'll leave them there for the time being. I took too much applause last week. I'm cautioning I'm moving in the. I'm going in the opposite direction. So why did water birds routinely stand on one leg? Okay, because flamingos as well, don't they? Yeah, that's true. All right, you're on. I'll leave it on the board. As you said, everybody. Nicki, my catchphrases now, 16 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. This is L James O'Brien on LBC, 20 minutes after twelve. I forgot to tell you something in the last hour, didn't I? I've got to stop doing that. Must be incredibly irritating. My colleague and friend Theo Usherwood's work regarding the. The muslim cleric Suleiman Ghani during the mayoral election has now reached fruition with an apology issued today by Michael Fallon over quote now entirely untrue. Allegations of extremism and indeed supporting the so called Islamic State. A cabinet minister, don't forget. You can read that apology in full and recap on the role that Theo Usherwood and this program played in pursuit of that story at LBC dot co dot UK. In the first instance, though, I shall retweet it from my own. Just a little bit of homework there because tomorrow things are going to be a little bit hectic. 21 minutes after twelve is the time. Back to mystery hour. Dax is in Chatham. In Kent. Dax, question or answer? James, lovely to speak to you. Likewise, Dax. Big fan. I mean, although I have a few bones to pick with you, but this. Now is not the time for bone picking, my friend. That's all right. Can I first say, I want to put my. It's mischievous. Not the Oscars, mate. I don't need a speech. Okay, let's. Let's leave that for now. My question is, can salt dissolve in salt water? Okay. Yes, yes, yes. Qualifications? Chemistry GCSE. I can prove it to you. Okay. Okay. Briefly. Yeah. Okay, go. Imagine a glass of water in your hand. Yeah. Now imagine a pinch of salt in your other hand. Yeah. Now put the pinch of salt in the water. Yeah. Make sure it is dissolved. Yeah. That is now salt water. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I think I should now. And now get another pinch of salt and put that in the salt water. Put that in the saltwater that you made a moment before and you have now dissolved salt in saltwater. I think I know what you meant to ask. Shall I tell you what question you meant to ask? You are such a smart aleck. You got me, man. You got me, Dax. I'm just going to get a round of applause for answering the question you did ask and then I'm going to tell you the question that you meant to ask. All right. The question you meant to ask is, is there a point at which you can't dissolve any more salt in salt water? Beautifully put. To which the answer is yes. And it has a name. It's called saturation Point. Okay. And is the. Is the ocean at Saturation Point? No. No. Something like the Red Sea would be the dead Sea. I beg your pardon? Would be closer because it's so much more salty than other seas, which is why you can float in it. Yeah. So I'm just going to take another round of applause for answering the question you meant to ask but didn't ask, which I told you you meant to ask after I'd taken a round of applause for answering the question you did ask. Right. Just stay there a second. Would I be right in thinking that you've now got even more bones to pick with me than you did before this conversation started? No, no, no. I wanted to. No, you can't. You can't know. You can't know. No, no, no, no. I wanted to put my. I wanted us to put our pernicious arm of racism around each other. Was that you? That wasn't. That was some other guy. That was when I got a clue. I got accused of extending a pernicious arm of racism. I think mystery out this week with the skinning and the herbs is already confusing enough without bringing the pernicious arm of racism into it. Dice. But I'm glad that you remember. It's like a little badge that proves you pay attention. I like that. And I got some rounds of applause on the board and thanks for all the people who've been in touch to say they didn't expect to get their laugh out loud moment quite so early, but they've now had several. We're here to please David's in Wimbledon. David, question or answer? Answer, I think. I hope, James. It's about the tattoos. Oh, boy. Some time ago, back in sort of September, around September 2015, an organization launched in the USA. I don't know if I can say the name of it or not, but I won't, just for the minute. No. But it basically deals with preserving people's tattoos. The owner of this organization in America, he said that he paid something in the region of about $10,000 for all the tattoos that he'd had done on his back. And he thought what his philosophy was. You wouldn't put a Picasso in the oven and burn it. Same as Dave. This is Dave Philosophy as well. Dave. Dave whose mate's got a shrunken head. And why would all this go but the questions about the legality in this country. Well, apparently all that I can say is. And so I may not get my round of applause, but all I can say is that this service that they're now providing is available to people worldwide. You have to be a member and you have to register exactly what you want done prior to death, but it's available worldwide, so that's all I can say. I haven't seen. And it happens post mortem, obviously. Yes. Yes, you must. They have to do. Who does the bit? Who does the removal? I presume at the moment, from what I know, the person, it would be one of their representatives in America, but they may have people here they work with embalmers. To do this, and you must contact them at least. They can't do it. 18 hours. If it exceeds 18 hours after death, it cannot be done. Is that right? Because the skin starts the blood start the lividity and all that sort of. I think I'm going to give you a round of applause. All right, well, thank you, because I think it would take a oddity at a really almost unbelievable level to have made any of this up. David, I think. Yeah, I think if you. All he has to do is search it out. No, I know, I know, but I should. That was the one rule I forgot to mention. I've banned it. That's, you know, that's the whole rule of mystery you're not allowed to look at. I'm not doing that, though, because I actually read this. You remember? I remember this because I have friends who see the only alternative I've had is that the moment you pass away, your body becomes the property of the coroner. But that sounds a bit implausible to me. Yes, and I think you're not. I mean, you know, this. This particular process, it actually takes the skin from wherever the tattoos are and they actually provide it in frames and. Yeah, but, you know, that rings a bell, actually. Okay, round of applause for David and hopefully that. Thank you very much. Thank you. If anyone in Britain has done it, they're not going to be here to call me. Anyone. If you're aware of anyone in Britain who has done it, then I'll add to that, but David gets a round of applause. Keith's in upminster. Keith, question or answer? It's an answer, James, go on. Okay. The words with a friend. Some words have a french origin, like hotel or herb or hospital, and that's. Yeah, but they don't. The question is, in America, why do they drop the H for Herb and they don't drop it for hospital, hotel and helicopter. Also, you've got your radio on in the background, which drives me absolutely potty. Barry's in Norwood. Barry, question or answer? Question, please. Come on, Barry. Right. The question is. Right, first, there's no searchable option on the archive. It's the point, is there not? I'll have a word. I'll have a word with the Gremlins. Yeah, please do. I will have to start charging you, though, if we did that. I think 20 psr, 20 p. Well, I suppose you think if you pay for the podcast service. I've got free podcasts now. May I go coming out my ears. I've got a free mystery out podcast. Got a free best of podcast. It's all over iTunes. Go and have a shifty. What's the question? Anyway? The news is coming. So is Christmas question. The sauna help losing weight? Yes. I've got asked, obviously, by my daughter. Again, obviously. Why. Why'd you go to the sauna? Yeah. It does help you lose weight. I don't think it's about. Because I know. Ask me what my qualifications are. Did you go to the sauna? No, I don't. Horse racing jockeys do it. I read a big interview. Frankie Datura, the other Frankie, did. They'll be in the sauna just before a race to get their weight down under the limit. Oh, yeah. But how long does that weight last? Well, that's a different question. That's a different question. I don't think it's. It's not a dietary. What? You've unqualified it. You've given me a good answer. I want details. No, I don't know. I'm just giving you an answer. You say, can a sauna help you lose weight? There is only two answers to that question. Yes or no. The answer is yes, but I don't do it. Instead of dieting, eat less and exercise more. Saunas are nice. Yeah, all right. I do. I cycle everywhere. Good man. Yeah. Thank you. But I need to know about the sauna to how much weight? How much do. How much do I need to do? What effort do I need to put in? No, no, no, hang on a minute. I've done. I've already done my agony uncle bit. I'm not suddenly going down the personal trainer route as well. It's ridiculous. Ridiculous. You get about six presenters for the price of one on this slot. It's absurd. I am qualified. I read a Frankie detouri interview the other day and he talks about how much time he spends in the sauna before a big race to get his weight down under the limit. Under the handicap limit. I'll have a round of applause now while Barry recomposes him. So wait there, Barry, mate. No, no, no, no. Let's part as friends. Thank you. See you in the sauna sometime soon. Sounds like a song. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour on LBC. Rupert Bartier is here with the headlines. Tens of thousands of people have been ames O'Brien on LBC. 32 minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to mischievous on LBC with James O'Brien. Like the bloke with the deep voice just said, let's crack on with the calls question that still need answers. You can. You can expand on the skin question if you want, but only with personal experience. Just tuned in. The skin question. What the hell has happened to mistria? Why is. Why do Americans routinely drop the h from the word herb? Because it's the only word we can think of that they routinely drop the h from. It's not like someone from Billericki who will drop the h from pretty much every word that begins with h. Raining cats and dogs. Origins of that phrase. And why do seabirds, water fowl stand on one leg? Have I missed anything off? Is there anything else on the list? Give me a heads up if there is. Shaun's in Ganshill. Shaun, question or answer? Hi there, James. Hello. The answer to the question, as I believe I'm an estate agent, have been one for about 20 years, is that in the olden days when roofs were made of sort of hatchery, when they were made of sort of hatched roots? Yes. Instead, the dogs and cats used to kind of sort of huddle in there to keep warm. Yes. And then as rain sort of came down, it kind of made it a little bit slippery. And they used to fall down. So people used to see cats and dogs sort of passing, falling down from the roof onto the floor, past the window. So then they knew that it was raining quite heavy, hence the reason why they call it cats and dogs. That's why. That's what I've always thought as well. Where did you pick that up? What are your qualifications? I'm an estate agent. I've been an estate agent for, like, 25. Well, yeah, but I mean, where did you pick up this bit of information? It's just, um. It's just a thing that everybody knows. I mean, uh, just. Ready. I think. I think I read it somewhere. So I think I did as well. I think I did as well. But unfortunately, it seems we're both wrong. Really? Yeah. God. Well, I can't because I can't give you the answer, but did you ever hear Wayne in Basildon on the program, Sean? He's a bit of an attention seeker. Does that ring any bells? Gets on a lot, does old Wayne. And he swallowed, as an early attempt to get on mystery hour, as often as he could. He swallowed the brewers dictionary of phrase and fable, which actually gives you chapter and verse on where these figures of speech come from. And he's bothering me like no end on Twitter at the moment. I can't tell you. I have to wait for someone to ring in. Whether it's him or not, I don't know. But I'm going to give you a round of applause for being wrong in the same way that I was. Maybe I'll have to find out. But it does specifically say in the book I refer to that it is a false theory, the one that we just went for, not least because a properly maintained thatch. Yeah. All right, Matron. A properly maintained thatch is naturally water resistant and slanted to allow water to run off. 1235 is the time. Annabelle is in Wimbledon. Annabelle, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. I had, when I was a catholic school, I don't know if this was a myth or not, but apparently when a new pope is kind of elected or whatever they do with new pope, they get given a bit of parchment that tells them something that only the previous pope have known and that's passed from one pope to the next. And it's partly something so jaw dropping these kind of earth shattering that they. They sort of spend a few days in shock reading about it. What's your question? The question is, is that true? Well, only popes would know, wouldn't they? Well, I'm not. Hey, hey. Don't get me wrong, Annabelle. I have it on impeccable authority that Andy Murray is a big fan of the station. And I suspect Her Majesty the Queen is as well. So it's perfectly possible there's a pope listening. There's two around at the moment. After all, for the first time in living memory. But I don't know that it. I don't know that they'd want to ring in. Well, I thought perhaps the person who kind of looked after us in case, you know, locked it away for the night might. I don't want to sort of sound ungrateful. It's not really how mystery hour works. You ring in and ask whether something is an urban myth or not. Oh, okay. Otherwise we could. I mean, we could really go down quite an unproductive avenue, couldn't we? That is true. Were you taught by nuns? Yes, I was. Did you ask any of them? Well, it was so long ago, I can't actually remember. Okay. Because it sounds like something out of a Dan Brown book. I've got to be honest with you, rather more than it does out of a history book. Okay. But I'm going to put it on the book because you got me all intrigued now. I just don't know. I mean, I don't know who would know the answer. Is there a keeper of the parchment who passes it to the pope. But surely if you were the keeper of the parchment, you'd want to have a look at the parchment. You can only know for certain if there is a parchment. If you've been given the parchment. You can only be given the parchment if you're a pope. Well, it's been bothering me for quite some time, so I'd really like to know. Well, I'll do my best for you, but it may well be that the only way you can find out for certain is to become pope. That's option B. Yeah. Option A, mystery hour. I love this little memo to self from Annabella. Option A, mystery hour. Option B, become pope. Yeah, that's it. Love it. 1237 is the time. I think she deserves an answer, if there is one available. Martin's in Highgate. Martin, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. By the way, I liked your, your last thing you said, it sounded like the new tongue twister in the English language about part that parchments work on that one. Parchments and pokes. Herbs. Herbs. Herbs associated with the French in cooking. And the French dropped using the aspirated h a long time ago. So it's herb and it probably. So it probably came from England then, rather than France. It would have come from when. Norman. Norman. It'll be Norman French. Yeah. American English. There's lots of. There's lots of old english terms that are used in America that have just stayed there. Some people say some of the accents are as well. Some people say some of the accents are more similar to what you would have heard in rural England in the 16th, 17th century. Absolutely. There's another thing that the French, because they have a circumflex flex accent over words such as fett, for instance. Well, we use that word. Yes. It's the original word where there's a circumflex and they're thinking of dropping it in French. They want to simplify the spelling. Ok. And. And wherever there's any. Circumflex would have originally been an s. Yes. There's no one french word festival. So. And that. Because it is a word that would have been in common parlance at the time of the Mayflower in a way that helicopter. And, you know, other words wouldn't. Herbs are stuck. They didn't. Correct. They didn't have a lot of helicopters in those days, I believe. No. Although Leonardo had, of course, designed one. He just never got around to building it. That man was a genius. You can say that again. What are your God. Imagine what he'd have done with mystery out, Martin, he'd have been. He'd have been through it like a hot knife through buzz, what are your qualifications on this one? On this one? Oh, I just like languages, that's all. And you've made a study of them or. Yeah, yeah, that'll do. I mean, it's dripping with plausibility, your answer. It's not dissimilar to what I said myself, but I'm being very generous with the applause this week. So this one is for you, Martin. 1239 is the time. Andy is in Twickenham. Andy, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, mate. My question is, how much cash does your street sweeper find on average, in a year? Who's going to know that? London based. A street sweeper. Yeah, but he's not going to know the average. He's going to know how much he found last year. Well, I suppose that's a problem. Well, I don't know. I'm guessing it's a fair amount. What, are you thinking of a career change, Andy, and this could be the clincher. Yes, maybe, but I'm just thinking the streets are twicken, that's all. Paid with ten pound notes. Yeah, especially on match day. But that's another reason why the question is hard to answer. Because somewhere like Twickenham has a huge passage of crowds when there are games on at the stadium, and then other towns of the same size will have no comparable experiences whatsoever. I bet you find more stuff lying around the day after a big game than you would on a normal Sunday. Yes, but, I mean, I haven't found any cash for a while and it seems to come in, so. How hard do you look? Well, walking around, I mean, I found money in the past. And you think that's nice? 50 p or whatever? Yeah. Yeah. Not found anything for a long time. So you think all the street sweepers are snaffling it? Well, I would. I mean, if you're on the streets all day, then, um. Yeah, it's got to be good. We're something. I. I mean, I've enjoyed talking to you, I'm not going to lie, but I'm not sure it is a proper question or indeed one that is in any way answerable. Okay, well, don't be like that. No, it just intrigued me, that's all. No, it intrigues me as well. But how would you find out an average? I mean, I. What will we take? And you and me, we'll take. We'll take one street sweeper ringing in to say, on average, every year I make about 24 quid. But we're not going to get an average of all the streets. Honestly, it's got to be more than that. All right. I mean, I was just a figure of speech. I'm just saying what we'll accept, because we're never going to get an average of every street sweeper in the country, divided by the number of streets, the amount of money total, divided by the number of street sweepers, to get an average annual. We'll just take one. Street sweepers annual average, yeah. Can I modify my question, then? What's the most cash they would find, then? Well, how the hell is anyone gonna be able to answer that? Oh, no, the question is, are you a street sweeper? How much money do you find in a good year? Go on. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, 1241 is the time. A little bit sub editing there. Simon's in Red Hill. Simon, question or answer? Answer. Go on. So, the reason that birds have one leg up when they're standing, it's my understanding that you can shut off one side of their body from the other. I put one side to sleep while the other side's awake. That's why it happens in Flamingos. Really? Really. Honestly, I promise you. How can they move their head if half of it's asleep? Well, I don't think they do. I think you have a close look at them, and so they're only on one leg when they're having a kip. Right. When one side of them is having a kick, one side of them is awake and the other side. I mean, the question was about seagulls. I don't think seagulls have got half of their body asleep when they're standing on one leg. Well, it's certainly the case with Flamingos qualifications. Where do you pick up that nugget of information, son? The same place anyone picks up useless information that show on the BBC. I mean, that is one source, although it's not as common a source on this trail as you might imagine. Flamingo is asleep. Down half its body. Down half its body. The flamingosleep. And the unbelievable truth said that as well. I think. Pigeons. No, seagulls. Ducks. So all of them, you think? I think the pigeons are just missing one leg. I don't think it could be that, yeah. Seagulls and ducks, though. Any. Any waterfowl? Why would it be unique to waterfowl and not other birds? It'd be very useful to be able to put half your body to sleep. I don't know if I can give you a round of applause. Just wait there a second. I'm just going to talk amongst myself. Can we give him a round of applause for that? You can't prove it, Flamingos. I don't. I. Half their body is asleep. Well, why is the other half awake? What's the other half doing? Well, the half's asleep, Simon. Well, maybe phoning you. I'm a flamingo. I can't give you the round of applause for certain now, because that attempt at humour was dismal, as I think you realized halfway through. It could be true, but you haven't expressed it right. And it's got to apply to ducks and seagulls as well. Paul is in Ongar. Paul, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. Paul, quick question for you. At the end of a football match, the referee blows the whistle to a specific tone. I just want to know where that tone came from. What do you mean, where it came from? Came from the whistle. So that you know the game is over. Yeah, we know the game's over, but it's a specific tone, isn't it? Yeah, so that you know the game is over. But it could be any whistle. Could it? Could be any tone. It's a specific whistle, isn't it, that everyone does. But where's that come from? The whistle. I know it comes from a whistle, James. It's. But it's a tone. Which is. How did they decide upon the tone they all use to denote the end of the match? That's better. Yes, thank you. I'm doing a lot of heavy lifting this week, frankly, I'm gonna have to get paid extra. I'm doing all your work as well. Fair question, though. Yeah? It might be lost in the midst of time, but we have quite a few referees listening, believe it or not, so we'll see what we can do. Why did they say. Why do they use that tone at the end of football games? Zero. 345-606-0973 questions that still need answers. Why do seabirds, why do water birds stand on one leg? Is it true that every pope gets passed a piece of parchment by the previous pope pertaining to some amazing secret? How much money can a street sweeper expect to find in a good year? And why do football referees whistle in the way that they whistle at the end of games? There's loads to get through there. We need some more answers on the board. Answers, answers, answers. If you know the answers to any of these, give me a call. 1245 from the on LBC. 1249 is the time. Just checking this, the provenance of this tweak text, because it looks sound to me from Alan, who's texted 84850. I don't normally take answers by text, but on that street sweeping, finding money one, it's going to be tough. Have we got anyone? Right. I'll break the habit of a lifetime. He says he is a street sweeper. Last year he found about 16 quid. You find any significant amount, you'd have to hand it in, because it'd be theft by finding if you didn't, you know, if you found paper money, if you found a note, that could be the answer. Questions that still need answers. Does the pope pass on a part? Is a piece of parchment passed from pope to pope. I don't know how you do it. Where would the last pope put it? How would the new pope find out? Anyway? I don't know. I need an answer to that. Why do refs whistle that three tone blast at the end of games? Why do water birds stand on one leg? I may have done that last fellow a disservice. There's a bit of chatter coming in via the usual channels that something called semi hemispheric sleep will be part of the answer. But that may hold true for flamingos. Does it hold true for seagulls and ducks and a few other things as well. Let's go to Claire, who's in healing. Claire, question or answer? Oh, answer, James, about the pope and the parchment. Oh, yes, yes. Now, I believe that this stems from the apparition of the Blessed Virgin Mary at Sataba. Okay. And she passed on information, or she actually gave them something and it. That it was to go to the. Every single pope and it's due with the apocalypse, the end of the world. Yes, apparently, that's. That's what rumor has it. Yeah, but that's just a rumor. That's where we were with Annabelle in Wimbledon. Is it? She's heard the same rumor as you need to know. Is it true? Can we prove it in any way? We can't prove it, can we? But that's what rumour has it. And I went to a good convent school, so. Yeah, I'm not going to be able to because she wants. She'd heard the same rumors. I've heard the rumor as well, now I come to think of it. But we can't tell her whether it's true or false, which is what she wants. No. Well, we can't tell it and no, only the pope would know. How would he know where to look? They have to have. You know, they have a to do list, don't they? Yeah, but how would. How would the new pope know where the to do list was? Surely the. You know. They've got Vatican officials, haven't they? Yeah. Well, then the Vatican officials can have a look at the parchment as well. No, no, no. It's probably put in a sealed box, or only so and so. By whom? By Vatican officials. But how does the new pope know where the sealed box is? It's probably under his pillow. The car. Was she big? Silly. Now, honestly, Claire, I think it's under his pillow where the new pope is. The old pope still alive at the moment, isn't he? Well, it's in his red slippers. Not outrageous. Dominant slippers. No, that's right. He doesn't. You see? There you go. You learn something new every day. You're not getting a round of applause for that, madam. I'll tell you that for nothing. Whatever color your slippers are. John's in Stratford. John. Question or answer? That under his pillow did make me laugh. Did it? Well, there's no accounting for taste. Go on. The question about the. How much the road sweepers find. How much the road sweepers find? Yeah. Not a lot is the answer. It's always one of the questions that people come up with. And it's. Oh, you're a road sweeper. You must find a load of money. No, people tend to drop coppers. And if they. If they drop silver money or paper money, pick them up. But as I said to your researcher today, I found eleven pence. What? Today? Today. You're at work today and you found eleven pence. I am, yeah. What are you gonna spend it on? It's going in the Christmas one. Is that a good day? Bad day? Average day. That's. That's an average day, yeah. What's your best day up over the year? What's your best. I did find three and a half grand once in nigerian money, which works out at the time. So that nine quid. And your qualifications are? I'm a road triple. Beautifully done. If you. But should we go the Ray Liotta stuff? I haven't played that. Hang on. You can have two for these, John. Actually, you can have one of these. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. So you've got a question about road sweepers. You can only really take an answer from a road sweeper. You also get this, John, for your trouble. Double bubble. Mate. Thank you very much. What's more exciting, that or the eleven p? I don't ask. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right. Open goal. Austin's in reading. Austin, question or answer? Answer. Good man. The referee question. The whistle. Oh, yes. So the whistle is blown at a lower pitch, so it travels further, so it gets to all the players on the pitch, where if it's a foul, it's a higher pitch because it's only the nearby players need to hear it. That's a brilliant answer, actually. What are your qualifications? A level physics. Oh, really? Have you just worked that out for yourself or did it come up on the curriculum during a level physics? Well, it's just applying past knowledge to a question on misbehaviour. Yeah, I think I'm going to accept that, actually. And the answer to how did they decide? We'd never know. I mean, it just needs to be a lower pitch so that it spread. Yeah, yeah. Give them a round of applause. Good work, Austin. Yeah, yeah. David's in Tunbridge. David, question or answer? It's an answer, mate. Carry on, then. It's to the parchment question. The parchment and the pope. Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. There is a reason only the pope can see it in the Roman Catholic Church and words that are written on it. And it's the reason they all look so unhappy is. Yeah. The phone's gone. This is spooky. This is pure damn brown. David in Tunbridge is about to reveal the secrets of the pope's parchment and the phone line has been interfered with by nefarious outside sources, possibly in the service of Beelzebub himself. We'll try and get David back up. Tunbridge must have changed a bit. What else do we still need answers to? We haven't really done the seabird question. We've got time for that. Zero. 345-606-0973 I think we've done pretty much everything else, haven't we? Got the pope and the parchment and the seabirds on one leg. Quite a few comedians are pointing out, why does a seabird stand on one leg? It's obvious, isn't it? Isn't it? Says Jess. If they lifted it up, they'd fall over. Thank you, Jess. Martin's on his mobile. Martin in Harlow. Martin, question or answer? I think I've got an answer to the pope question from a Discovery Channel program years back. Yeah, that'll do. On the program, they said that the pope receives an envelope which has whatever the mysterious items are, he reads it and reseals it with his personal sill and candle wax. And it's kept in the vault. So he only reads it once? He reads it once and then he puts it back. That's my understanding. That makes perfect sense, because here's me puzzling over thinking he'd have it with him all the time. Why would he do that? He'd read it once and then he'd put it back in the vault. The vault is guarded and if anyone tampers with it, you'd know from the seal that it had been tampered with. Yep. What's on it? What's in it? I don't know. All I know is it's writing. It's a parchment, as you said, and it's resealed by his personal seal. And that's how they would know if it was tampered. How far back does it go? Do we know? Does the tradition go back to St Peter? Or is it. Is it more recent than that? Is it linked to Fatima or mage Gorier or something like that? I have absolutely no idea. I'm not a religious person. All I remember is watching the program and it's something that stuck with me just out of intrigue. Do you watch the discovery? Sorry? Do you watch the Discovery Channel religiously, Martin? Not anymore. I haven't got sky. You got her out of the floor. Sean's in Bishop Stortford. It's a question, Sean. I mean, mate, seriously, unless I know the answer myself, you're barking up the wrong tree. But let's have a go. What have you got? I know it's a silly question. Cold spray. How does it stay cold when it's left in a warm room? Whereas deodorant, air freshener and polish doesn't come out and the cold spray is really, really cold. What do you mean, a cold spray? Well, you know, when you've got an injury, like a muscle injury or something, you know, the football. It's just. It's got different gas. It's got different gas in the bottles. How did it stay cold? It's a different gas. As soon as you introduce it to the atmosphere, it starts withdrawing heat from your skin. It's a different gas to your deodorant when it goes on. It is really cold. Yeah, I know, I know. I don't know. I always thought it was hot. I mean, that deep heat. I don't know if I've missed that. Hang on, I've got an answer. Mark's in Romford. Mark. Seabirds. Take it away. You got a minute? Well, I think flamingos got. Flamingos live in an acoustic environment. They lift their legs up to stop any sediment like rock. And that building on minerals building up on their feet, so might go the same way to seabirds. Now, if I'd rung in with that and you were in charge of mystery, would I now get a round of applause? Yeah, go on, go for it. No, no, no. Did you have a little thing? If I'd rung in with that flamingo sediment and something, so it might be the same for seabirds, would I get a round of applause? Half a one? Yeah, half a one. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. That was about two sides. Give me a bit back, Mark. Thank you. That's it. There you go. Now we're square now, mate. All right, have a great day. That is it for another day. Tomorrow, we will, of course, be in possession of the referendum results when we spend our time together. So we will be talking about little else. In the meantime, stay safe. You have been listening to James O'Brien on LBC. You can download mystery hour as a free podcast. And indeed, there's now a weekly free best of podcast as well, available in all reputable podcast places. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. From three, we wonder.