Why is my cat freaking out?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Hello, three minutes after twelve is a time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery Hour is underway. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. Exciting that, wasn't it? Professor Howe makes the news. Has he been on the news before? Honestly? He's got tv shows. He's got it on the news. It's amazing. If you haven't listened to this feature before, it's kind of hard to explain. It sounds a bit rubbish, frankly, when I just tell you that people ring in with questions and then other people ring in with answers. But it isn't rubbish. It's supremely popular in its own right. It has an almost cultish following mystery hour. And in recent years, of course, we've had the added bonus of the board game available at Amazon or ideally, at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK or in branches of John Lewis and other shops. What it means is that the best contribution of the week wins a mystery hour board game. It could be you, but will it be you? Should I skip the rules? Full terms and conditionsbc dot co dot UK dot. There you go. That's for the competition, because we're giving away really, really cool prizes. Prize, singular. No rules really, except don't look stuff up. I mean, that rarely needs to be enforced these days. But if you hear someone ask a question, you think, oh, I'll google that and get myself on the radio. Don't you know, it's not big and it's not clever and it spoils the fun for everybody else. So we will endeavor, endeavor to answer that, to avoid that at every opportunity. There are three phone lines. Three. I mean, it filled up really quickly. Are some of them a bit rubbish this week? Are we getting rid of people? Quick luck. Yeah. Good. Wheat from chaff. Wheat from chaff. Chaff from wheat. People chaff from wheat. So keep trying. If you can't get through, keep trying. Judicious use of redial. Seems to me to be the way through. Cameron is in Fort William. Cameron. Question or answer? I've got a question for you. Please carry on, Cameron. Carry on, Cameron. When you're talking about your stopped clock in the office the other day, it made me look down at my watch and I thought to myself, why does it say quartz at the bottom? Is there a rock in there? Yes. Oh, there's a tiny bit of quartz crystal in there. I think it's that simple. It's. It's battery pack. It has a battery or watch. But the battery does something to the quartz which makes it oscillate. Oh. Because I thought with it being digital, it wouldn't need any Flintstone devices. It would do though, because it needs the power. It's the. It's the. I don't know what the quartz does, but it needs to have an electrical charge passed through it in order to tick. Technical term. Tick. I have to be honest, I'm not going to be offended if you don't accept this answer as having fully addressed the thrust of your original question. I've been a longtime listener, so I think you know what's coming. Yeah, I thought you might. I'll leave it. I'll leave you. I'll leave you up there. Thank you. Thank you. Why does his watch say quartz on it? 606-0973 now, I didn't want to say this in front of Cameron because it's a bit embarrassing. When I was a kid, I thought that quartz throbbed. You know, like you've got a little rock inside your watch that sort of goes like a little heartbeat. And it may be that that is what oscillate means, but it's not quite what I had in mind as a child. As a child, I thought it was like you could dig up stones. I used to dig up stones in the garden, hoping to find some quartz that would just sort of throb. I think that might be part of the answer. Although obviously not quite in the way that I envisioned as a young fellow. Milad, Isabelle is in Haringey. Isabelle, question or answer? Hi. Can you hear me? The producer had trouble hearing me when I spoke. That's fine. They wouldn't have put you through unless the situation had been resolved. Okay, so my question is to do with the summer and winter solstice. Oh, yes. Why they seem so separate from the coldest and hottest parts of the year? Because surely we're the closest to the sun, which is at the summer solstice, the longest day of the year. Should be the hottest point of winter. Hottest point of summer. Why? Why? There's. There's more than sun. There's more to life than is dreamt of in your philosophy, Horatio. It's not just the sun that affects that. I mean, there's all the other stuff going on. If you turned on your weather forecast and all they talked about was the sun, you'd be a bit disappointed. You'd be a bit short changed, wouldn't you? You've got to talk about pressure and rain and wind. There's a million different things that could affect the temperature on the day, but the length of the day is about. I don't mean a specific day, per se. I mean, why they seem to be at the start of winter, the start of summer, when summer continues for months after and winter continues, we get some quite bitter winters in January, February, and it just seems a little bit counterintuitive. Counterintuitive that the days get colder as they get longer? Yeah. Is that what you're saying? Yeah. Because it's sort of. I think it was sort of late December was the winter solstice. Yeah. But we're still in winter now. Like, it's maybe only just starting to feel like spring, but flipping out, maybe. Where you are in Haringey, sunny herringay, it's freezing where I am at the moment. Absolutely shocking. Okay. I think the answer is going to be a variation upon the one I've already proved, don't you, now you've thought about it. Yes. Pressure and. But we'll find out. I mean, it's a good. Why. Why did the. Why do the. Because I think that's the difference between weather and climate. Right, exactly. I'm just trying to sound much smarter than I am, so I don't know what that means either. Well, I do know what it means. I don't think it's. I don't think it's relevant here. I feel like the average temperature of summer, the hottest. I don't know. I think the way to phrase it is to say, why. Why do the longest day, why does it get colder as the days get shorter when you'd expect? And likewise, in the summer, days are getting shorter in August. Right. I'm going to do what I do occasionally, Isabel, I don't want you to be offended. I'm going to just put you under there. If you understand Isabel's question, the number to ring. The number to ring is zero. 345-606-0973 looking forward to it. It's nine minutes after twelve. Mark is in houndle in Northamptonshire. Mark, question or answer? I've got a question. James, carry on. When you decorate a room like emulsion a wall. Yeah. To remove the smell overnight. If you cut an onion in half and leave it in the room, it removes the smell of the paint. Shut up. It does. Are you joking? No, we just had our floors done with the varnish. Would it work with the varnish? Possibly. It works with glossy glossing and emotions. I never. So I think it might be something to do with your favorite mystery hour work. Don't say it. Keith's half asleep. Don't say it yet. We'll see whether that comes up in the answer. He never. He's never ready for it. So you put half a cut onion, you may as well put a whole one in, you know. Yeah, you cut it in half. Not half. You just cut an onion in half and leave it in the room overnight and then I know the next day. And it doesn't smell of onion either, which is quite. Well, it might do a bit, but there's so little smell of onion compared to the paint that you're not even going to notice, are you? No. Everyone's cross with me for saying throbbing and I'm going to apologize. No, I can see why Julie prefers vibrating, but I did also say oscillating. I just wasn't quite sure what it meant. It's not throbbing, though. So can I take back the thing about the throbbing stones? I don't think that was suitable, frankly, for all sorts of reasons. And instead we would like to hear about why putting a cut onion in your freshly painted room will accelerate the disappearance of the paint smell. It's good to know that, actually, you live and learn. Thank you, Mark. Could be one for Gary Burton. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time Chloe is in high Wick. And Chloe. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why don't we refer to our parents as their names? Why do we say mum and dad? It's a bit unfamiliar, isn't it, to call them the same thing that everybody else calls them? I guess so. But our siblings, we call them by their names rather than brother and sister. We do. Like when you. When you address them. Mum. Mum. I'm trying to think. Why would you do it? Just. I mean, in company, I suppose. It signifies whose child is who, doesn't it? Whose parent is whose. Yeah, definitely. Why would you say mommy and not say Chloe? Sharon or whatever. Your mum. Why'd you pick Sharon and not just Chloe? I don't know. That's not even my mum's name. No, it's not mine either. But you got all discreet then, didn't you? And you thought, I don't want to say my mum's name on the radio. Yeah, me too. So I said yours. Mum and dad. Yeah, all right. I mean, I don't know if it's got an answer, but if it does, it'd be great, wouldn't it? Yes, you're on. Why do we say Mum and Dad and not call them by their first names. Twelve minutes after twelve. Marty's in Belfast. Marty. Question or answer? Hi, James. I have a question for you. Yeah, okay. You're in the supermarket or the pharmacy. And there's lots of different colored char gels and shampoos, but whenever you use them, the bubbles are always white. So why. Why are the bubbles not the same color as the shampoos? Or the. Or the chargels? Um, that we should have a sound effect for this. Keith, I think this might be the most asked question of all time on mystery hour. Oh, it's not a criticism. It's certainly not your, uh. I. And to my enormous embarrassment, I can never remember the answers. But it's to do with light hitting them and how thin they are. So it doesn't matter what color they are. This isn't going to work as an answer, Marty. But, I mean, I'm in for a penny. Give it your best shot. I'll give it my best shot. Um, so they've got coloring in the liquid, but the bubbles are so thin that the light does the thing that it does. Seriously, it's not your best shot. Well, it's the white. It's white light, innit? From. From. No, it doesn't matter what color the light is. The bubbles are white. The bubbles are white. The bubbles are not colored. You don't have colored bubbles. And that's because of. No, no, I'm not helping that, Jim. Frankly, I'd be amazed and a little bit offended if you did. Marty, you're on the list. Why are the bubbles not the same color as the liquid? Why do we call our parents mum and dad instead of, I don't know, Keith and Doris, which would be their names, not just like, random. Why does an onion get rid of the smell of paint? Or how does an onion get rid of the smell of paint? Why does Cameron's watch say quartz? And then isabelle's question about the length of days and the temperature of days. Not having the sort of relationship you might expect them to have. It's coming up to 12:15 should we take an early break? Come back in a bit. Yeah, let's do that. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 17 minutes after twelve is the time. Why does Cameron's watch say quartz on it? Why is the relationship between the hottest day and the longest day, the coldest day and the shortest day not a little bit more linear? Why do onions get rid of smell of paint? Why do we call our mum and dad mum and dad rather than Keith and Doris and bubbles, why aren't they the same color as the liquid from which the bubbles emerge? That one is a contender for the most asked ever question or mystery. If it's not in the ballgame, I'll be amazed. Stephen is in al Qaeda. No. Are. You spoiled my joke. You spoilt my joke. I can say al Qaedessa. I was pretending that I couldn't say it and then I was just going to say Spain at the end of it, like a sort of rubbish Tony hancock. Oh, it's all about. It's Keith's fault. Shouldn't have brought you up. Shouldn't have brought. Shouldn't have brought your voice up like that. Never. Never mind. Question or answer, Stephen. It's a. It's a question. James, thanks for having me on. You're very welcome. It's a bit of a weird one. I play guitar. I'm a musician. A big fan of the Red hot chili Peppers, however. Yeah, about two years ago. Their song, by the way, makes me feel incredibly nauseous whenever I hear it. Like a bad hangover. Bile retching, nausea. No other song does by them or anyone else. About two years ago, it started. Whenever I hear, I have to turn it off because I think I'm going to be sick. Why? I mean, I've never heard of that before. No, neither have I. Like a physical. A visceral. Physical reaction. Visceral. You know, like you wake up after a big night and you go, yeah, I'm never drinking again. You say. You say, I'm never drinking. Yeah, exactly. That's never again. Never again until the next time. But, yeah, I wake up if I hear it, literally, I get that rolling, nausea. Like I'm gonna be sick. Well, I know. And the only song. And did it kick in overnight or has it always been like that? That's all about two years ago. And have you listened to it a lot previous to that without any problems? Yeah. So it was fine for a while and then suddenly it made you feel sick? Yeah. Weird. Wow. It is weird. What was the song called again, by the way? Don't play it for God's. No, I'm not going to. That wouldn't be funny. No, I was going to, but I won't now. Uh. Thank you. Thank you, Stephen. In Alcades, sir, 90 minutes after twelve is the time. Rob's in. That's a good one, that Rob's in. Peter brat. Rob, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Rob. Why is it aid at the end of lemonade, cherry aid, orange aid come off. We did this about a fortnight ago. Oh, I wasn't your fault, mate. I mean, you're not paid to do that. We did this about a fortnight ago, didn't we? Does anyone keep it? So we got anyone looking out for this? Anyone actually on duty today? I can't remember the answer. Rob, I've got a level with you. So no lemonade, cherry aid. We did it in the last month. Betty, 50 p. We did. Give me that. Look. Postal orders. No, we did. We definitely did. Very, very recently. The answer, Rob, comes from lemons. So when they first made a lemon drink, they called it limonata, which got anglicized into lemonade. And then whenever they made anything else fizzy, they just stuck an aid on the end of it. And then there's something about Kool Aid that I can't remember that's also relevant to the answer to this question. So what's the liminata? Whether obviously, I know Limon is lemon. What's the atta? Fizzy, fizzy, fizzy or bubbles, perhaps limonata. Or just a note, like a cordial. A limonata. So, lemon juice, you needed to distinguish. I don't think it was even fizzy the first time. Lemonade. I'm not getting there. I got it. It was only. Did it a fortnight ago. Lemonade, cherry aid. I mean, I don't really want to give this away to someone because it's like an open goal for mystery hour, just because I can't remember. It's probably because I'm a bit under the weather. I think that's what it is, Limonata. The Italians came up with it. They called it limonata. And that gets anglicised into lemonade and then they just stick an aid on the end of everything that else that is fizzy. Two weeks ago, they're all complaining now. I knew this was going to happen. I'm not in charge of deciding who gets through and who doesn't. I can only work with the callers that I'm given. This is like complaining about a footballer not getting the service from midfield. It's the midfield's fault, isn't it? All right, Rob. Thank you, mate. It's not. Hey, hey, hey. Rob, Rob, Rob. No beef with you, mate. All right? No beef with you. No beef. I'll try another question next week. No, this one's fine. I mean, if I can't remember the answer, I can't remember the answer. But I tell you what, it's astonishing how many people can 22 minutes after twelve's the time Ian is in Chester. Ian. Question or answer? Answer to the question about why the hottest, longest day is not necessarily the hottest. Goodness. For that, I shall enjoy crossing this one off. Going to give you an analogy first, and I'm going to give you the reason. So imagine you've got a football team, and that football team can win or lose. The reason why they win or lose can depend upon different variables. So it could be your defense, your striker, the referee, service from midfield, the service from midfield. All of those have an impact upon whether they win or lose. Now, in the case of the weather, there's lots of different factors which influence Britain's weather. So you've got things like relief, you know, how height, you know, the land is, you've got distance from sea, you've got, you know, the air masses and what impact they have upon our weather. So Britain in particular has. We're between, if you like, the ocean and the continent, and they have their own particular weather patterns and types, and we're kind of on the battlefield between the two. So it doesn't really matter how long the length of the day is, it all depends upon all those different variables having an impact upon a particular weather on a particular day. Yeah. So, for instance, we've had a cold spell, haven't we, recently? In that case, that's to do with an air mass coming from the Arctic, and the air mass brings the characteristics of the air mass of the Arctic. Sorry. To the United Kingdom. This is a lovely answer. It's a lovely answer. There we go. So that's the answer. Isabelle's question wasn't silly. I mean, you might reasonably expect the more daylight there is, the warmer it would be. So the hottest day of the year and the longest day of the year should coincide. More accurate, more completely. Yeah. If not for all these other factors having an influence. And also. Yeah, and also, I think you mentioned this, how far away the sun is. So it might be daylight, but it's not near the. Not near your bit of the earth. Yeah, it might be, because obviously the earth is curved. That's what I love about flat Earth, is when they say it's obviously, if we're flat, we'd all have the same climate, but we can't because the earth's curved, therefore we have. You're wasting. You're wasting your time with them, Ian. Probably like Brexit is, mate. Never going to admit the truth. It's a long. Well, maybe they will, but, you know, qualifications. I'm a savine geography and geography teacher. Fantastic. Round of applause for Ian, please. If I had my time again, I'd do geography instead of ancient greek. I think Rob's in. Rob, question or answer? I've got an answer for you. Carry on. What was the last fella called? I forgot to write his name then. Were you paying attention, Rob? Ian. Ian. I think it was, yeah. Well done. Ian was answering Isabel's question. Carry on, Rob. Okay, so the reason it's got quartz on it is because it has a little tiny quartz crystal inside of a watch and you were thought of, does it vibrate? It does what, really? Oh, yeah, it oscillates, but only when you pass an electric current through it. Hence why you have the battery that run. When the battery is connected to it, it oscillates. Now it's unique in that. Quartz crystal is the only. I think it's the only crystal that oscillates at an exact number of times. No matter which quartz crystal you put in it, it's in the 3000. So every second it will oscillate 3000 times or 3000 and something. I can't remember the exact number. And then inside the watch, it counts when it gets to 3000 and whatever it is. And then after that, I'm not sure. I think there's a little man inside that giving it a twist. So it is. So this is where my youthful self was confused in that I obviously misunderstood something in physics, didn't I? And I thought, wow. Throbbing stones. Vibrating stones. I've got all that. I've got to stick a bit of electric on it. Yeah. So I was never going to dig one up then, ever, was I? I could find a stone that was actually vibrating in the ground. That was never going to happen. Qualification. So, electric machine. Well, my first job when I was a student, I got a job in a menswear store selling watches. Selling the little watch stand. I'd broken his leg the day I went in and I got given the job, I didn't have a clue. A concession. The condo watch concession in a bigger shop. Yeah. And yeah, funny enough, that question was answered after about three people had walked up and some guy asked me and I didn't have a clue. So you looked it up. So I phoned head office. Did you really go? You were a thrusting young. You were a thrusting young thing. And now I'm the CEO. No, I didn't sell enough watches so far. It was a tough time. Thank you. Round of applause for Rob. Thank you. 26 minutes after twelve, Anthony's in Bletchley Park. Anthony, question or answer? It's a question. James. Good morning. Carry on. Carry on. I was sat at the tracking lights the other day, staring into space, and I looked at the red light and I suddenly wondered when did the color red become synonymous with danger or stopping? Yeah. Would it be blood? Something to do with blood? Well, I don't know. It's one ringing in. No, I know. I'm seeing how it works. I think out loud for a while and then I admit I don't know it. I thought about Red coated soldiers, as is my one thought. Okay, well, that was designed to check, designed to scare the enemy that you've got the Red army. The Russians actually called themselves that and the British historically have we depict their units in red and ours in blue. So there's obviously an element of danger there that only goes back. Could just be it. Yeah, but in terms of signs, it might be, um, just visibility might. And it might actually be the way that you get the clearest message to people. It registers most. That's why we use red. You want the when of it. So what, the first stop sign? You want the first stop sign then, or something like that? Well, I want to know when Red was the first time we thought, this is, this is worrying, this is dangerous. Okay. I think. I think you've set the parameters too tight on this, mate. But I'll leave it up and see what happens. But I don't know, I think that that might be too tricky to answer because it would probably have sort of started off informally and then become a formal way of doing things. But we shall see. First time that red became associated with danger, when was it? Please. There's a bit missing off this name. There's a bit missing off this place name. There's a bit missing off the end. Goggle. That's not the full place name. It's Land fair. Paul Gwynne Goggery Cormierobi. The William C o Gogo, isn't it, Heather? No, sorry. I was pretty close though, wasn't it? I was pretty close. You do it then. It's the middle bit, anti Sealey or goggle Gok. I can do the first bit. Lamp or Gwingol and I can do the last bit, anti sealeo, goggle gok. But I can't do the middle bit. My three year old can do it. Right. There's things I can do your three year old can't do. It's not a competition. Heather, question or answer? I had an answer about the music. One sound made him feel sick. Fantastic. To do with how it's received in years. Oh, yeah. It's creating that imbalance. Like you get with seasickness, you get that imbalance and that's why he's feeling sick with it. It is an actual thing. Why that one? Why only that song, though? Because of how they've recorded it. It's just the beat they've used or something. It's causing that imbalance. There's a few songs out there that can do it. This is pretty vague, isn't it? It's causing an imbalance. But you can answer that to almost causing an imbalance, because if there's an imbalance, I don't know what is the imbalance. An imbalance of what? And why was he fine with it for years and then suddenly, boom, he can't listen to it without feeling sick. Pardon? Drink of. I don't know. I don't know. Now, can I give her a round of applause? I don't think I can give you a round of applause, Heather. I tried. You did try. Have you got like, a fancy name for it? There is a name for it. That's not an answer to my question, Heather. Thank you for having me on. It's 12:30 Amelia Cox is here now with the headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1234 and that has now been confirmed at ban on TikTok for all government ministers and civil servants on security grounds. That has been mooted all morning. I think that's now been confirmed and good news, hopefully, for the healthcare workers as well, whose leaders seem to have come to an agreement and accommodation with the government. I wonder what that means for all the rest of the striking sectors. 25 to one is the time. Lots of questions still need answers, but on we go. Mike's in Birmingham. Mike, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Why do we say that we're looking after someone? What do you mean? So when you're looking after someone. Yeah. I can't phrase it any other way, but looking after. Careful someone. Careful. You're caring for someone. Well, yeah, exactly. Exactly. But when we say looking after. Yeah. Why do we say those specific words? Someone asked me the other day and I was trying to break. Break it down. Yeah. I just couldn't. I don't know why we say look and I don't know why we say after. Ah, because of the. You mean that the two words, yes, together don't make sense because we know what after means and we know what look means and put them together. To come up with. Careful. Doesn't bear any resemblance to the english language as we otherwise understand it. Exactly. I've got no idea. No, I like that. Actually said look after. I'm gonna look after my look. I mean, look. I mean, might be. Say it could. I bet it's maritime, Mike. I bet it's. I bet it's naval. I bet it's navel. Look aft. You look at. Look. You don't sound persuaded, mate. No, I mean. I mean, it's partly the accent. It's partly the accent. People from our part of the world never sound excited, do we? But still, you sounded particularly unexcited by my suggestion that it might have naval etymology. Naval. Naval origins. Look after, look after, look after. It's just. Yeah, I just. I wouldn't. I wouldn't have the first idea, so I'd take your word for it. I'm making it up. Don't take my word for anything. All right, you're on. Why do we say look after when the words look and after don't lend themselves in any way to looking? Who asked you that question, then? My best friend. She asked me that the other day and I was about to answer it like I knew it. Like a bloke. Like a bloke. Yeah. Yeah. And then suddenly realized I had no idea whatsoever. That's a really good question. I like the way her brain works. That's a. Well, let's find out. I mean, maybe we don't, but I bet there is an origin story, as it were, to go a bit marvel for a moment. I bet there is an origin story, and if it's not naval, I'm not going to be embarrassed, but I will be very delighted if it is. Thank you, Mike. Jim's just up the road in Shrewsbury. Jim, what would you like? Question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on. So, the red hot chili peppers. Yes, I would bet he's got a condition called misophonia. There you go. Which is a recognized medical condition. Right. And the most. The most common example of it would be if you find yourself being irritated by people who eat noisily. Oh, yeah. That will often create, literally, a physical reaction on you. And the reason I think that he's only relatively recently experienced this condition is because he is actually a musician, so his ears will have been under some pressure for a number of years, you know, working quite hard around amps and what have you, and so now he's just become more and more sensitive. But if he looks it up, it's misophonia. M y s ph in IO. Do we know what causes it? No. No, we don't. We don't. But it has a recognized condition and there are literally physical implements you can put in your ears to. To minimize the disruption. A very real condition. Yeah, clearly it is. And do some people really suffer? Would some people have loads of songs that set them off, or. Well, it's not necessarily the songs, it's the noise and. Yeah, but with him, it's one. With him, it's one song. Out of all the songs in the world, there's one song that gets him. So it will be a particular tone in that song that gets him. So you'll know the expression has at her voice goes straight through me. Yes. You know, it's that experience, you know, but literally, you leave the company of that person. Yeah. And you may have done this yourself lots of times. Right, I'm really hoping I get a round of applause here, James. It's early. I want to give it to my wife for Mother's Day, so, come on, play fair. Like your stretches this morning, sort of a tight. What are you, man? Buy your own presents for Mother's Day. You won't get it in time anyway. You won't get. When is Mother's Day this for? This Sunday. Sunday. Yeah. Yeah, I'm already sorted, mate. I went to Liberty earlier this. Oh, no. I hope she's not listening. Well, I rented biddles, so I'm one ahead of you. What do you do? You don't know what I bought in Liberty. What are your qualifications? I've got misophonia. Oh. Oh. Well, this is awkward. Why? Well, because now I can't carry on being mean to you, can I? No, of course I can. Let's have some fun. What sets you off? People who eat noisily, basically, just. Yeah. So. No, I'm not. I was sucking streps earlier. Did you notice? Did that annoy you? I did. I've just said that to you and Sheila. You and Sheila both do two things that send me up the wall. You strep souls this morning. I do strep. So it's about once a year, pal. Let's calm down a bit. You exaggerated a bit today. I did, I did. I did, I did, I did. You're right, I did. I did. Another thing Sheila does when she's talking to people. Yeah, she leans, too. She leans too close to a microphone and you can hear her breathing through her nose, but it comes through my rear speakers and my car. This is awkward. And I feel as if. I feel as if I've got a stalker in the back. This is awkward now. I mean, Sheila's been doing this for longer than I have. Well, all right. I mean, she's not here to defend herself. It's not a criticism. It's not. It is a criticism. You say that. She sort of snorts into the microphone. I did not use the word snort. And get out of town. I wouldn't get out of town. I'm on my way. Round of applause for Jim. Thank you, mate. Well, there you go. Brent's in Derby. Brent, question or answer? I have an answer for you. Carry on, Brent. So, red. Yeah. There's a couple of reasons for red, but the most honest reason is that it's the air molecules, it's the wavelength. Red has the longest wavelength, and therefore it can penetrate through the air molecules seen the greatest distance. So it's got to do with the wavelength. Yeah, it's the opposite in water. I'm a scuba diver and it's the opposite in water. It's the first to go underwater. It's the first color you lose underwater, but it's the longest in the air molecules, the worst in water molecules. So underwater, red is a color you don't associate with a lot of fish underwater, if you think about it. Whereas red is almost like our eyes can zero in because the molecules get less scattered so we can see it over a longer range. You put me in a difficult situation, Brent. Why? Well, because the fellow wanted to know when we started using it for danger signs and stuff like that. I'm more interested in what you say, but that's not what he asked for. Well, I suppose the thing would be nature. Red has always been coded into our aspect of nature, being that red is always a color that associates with nature, and therefore our brains are hardwired that from when our brains developed, that is mammalian, 400 million years ago. So we've been coded, like most other animals, to see red as a danger sign because of the visibility of it. And that's why red is always a color that animals use with indian jerk. Must be in animals. We've been using it ever since we could probably breathe. I am going to accept your answer, but I do. I do have a feeling that Anthony may not be happy with it, but, you know, unlucky. Anthony, what are your qualifications? History, geography, science teacher. I'm on my day off on a strike, so I've got to get some teaching in gym, so I might as well look at that. The man can't rest. Fantastic. Round of applause for Brent and good luck with the industrial action. What a wonderful selection of action today on the program as well. I love it when that happens. Mitch is in Blackmun in Lancashire. Mitch, question or answer? It's a question, James, carry on. And it's definitely not a motoring question. Oh, go on, then. Right on the side of the road when you walk in your dog, which I am doing now, and you looking. Looking down at, you know, the grid. The grates at the side of the road. Yeah. Literally lift up, you can drop your keys down and ipods down twice. I did that once. Yes. Yeah. Why do they have the direction of flow of traffic on them? What do you mean? So I'm looking at a grid now and it says, obviously the grids there. Yeah. And it says traffic flow and an arrow pointing the way the traffic's going. Obviously, I'm looking down, it's pointing to my left. So it's not the traffic on the surface, is it? Well, it just says traffic flow. Yeah. But. So I assumed, oh, I'm an idiot. It could be traffic of the water. I think it's the traffic underneath. But why would they call it traffic? That's just unhelpful and, you know, definitely not an idiot. It says traffic flow. Traffic flow just. Just stood on the dog. You're all careful. Yeah, it does say traffic flow. I'm gonna. Just walking back to one now. Just have a look. Yeah, go on. Traffic flow. Does it say anything else on it? Nearest one. Here it is. Right. So, yeah, it says traffic flow. An arrow pointed to my left. Yeah. And then they've just got the e numbers and, you know the british cart thing that's in the middle and then it says drain.com. Another advertisement for it. Yes. Traffic flow. All right. Why does it say. I mean, I tell you what. Hang on a minute. Well, hang on. This is part. This is amazing stuff. Right, go on. I've just crossed over now. This is radio. I've just crossed over. Yeah. And I thought it might be what you said, because it was going downhill. Yeah. On a bit of a sail. But I crossed over and the traffic flow is going uphill, so it can't be the flow of what's going in it the other way. Yeah. Why does it matter? Why would you have to have traffic flow on the grid? Because the drain grill, if I pick the grid up and crossed over the road and turn around and put it down, be in exactly the same position. But it'd be pointing in the wrong direction. Uh, no, because I've turned round. Uh. Oh, yeah, yeah, no, got it. Yeah. Right. Okay. So why. Why indeed? Why indeed? Why would you? I just. I mean, why would you? I can't think. I can't either. That's a fantastic question. And live. Live question as well. It's not often you get a question and journalism happening live on the radio. Wow. Thank you very much. So now you have to say that that's. That's Mitch in Blackman, Lancashire, for LBC in the post. Thank you, mate. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three. Ten to one is the time. Various questions still in need of answers. Why do we call our mum and dad? Mum and dad? That bubbles question. Someone should have a guy. So that's a walk in, that one. Bubbles. Mum and dad. Onions. Why do onions get rid of the smell of paint? Done the quartz one. I enjoyed that. We've done the red one. That was good as well. Mike's questions are cracker. Why do we say looking after in the context of people? I'm looking after it. I'm even just looking after business. It doesn't make sense. It's not what we use the word look or the word after for in any other context. So where does that come from? Stu's in Plymouth. Stu, question or answer? James, good morning. It's an answer for you. Thank you, Stu. Carry on. It's the answer or the question about the bubbles? Yes. Whitewash shower jewel is one color, the bubble, a different colour. Right. What we see is reflected light. All light comes from the sun and then that light is split up into the visible. Part of the electromagnetic spectrum has different colors. You've got your reds through to the violets, which is obviously the color of the rainbow. The main colors are red, green and blue. Now, certain things absorb those wavelengths because they're at different wavelengths and certain ones reflect it. So, for example, if you've got blue shower gel that's absorbing the red and the green wavelengths, but it's reflecting the blue, which is why our eyes see. See blue as the color of the shower gel. Now, with the bubbles, it's too thin to actually absorb or reflect or what have you. It's just passing through it. So you're seeing the white light that you get from the sun. I think I said that. You did, but not in a very impressive way. Why is John Endova on the line? John in Dover, are you also answering this question? I am, yes. Thank you. But Stu's nailed it, hasn't he really? Well, what I was going to say is there's two factors. One, there's a thing called a molar extinction coefficient, which measures how intensely the compound absorbs color. Right. And the second is to do with how thin the bubble is. Yes. So. So the colored compounds are going to be put in shampoo, are not going to be intensely colored, end up coloring your skin or your hair. Yeah. And also because the bubble is so thin, it's still got colour, but it's so pale, you don't actually see. I think Stu covered the second bit. What are your qualifications, Stu? I'm an imagery analyst and currently did a master's degree in remote sensing. And John? PhD in chemistry. University lecturer. I'm going to give you both. I don't want any fights here, lads. All right? Can we just keep it clean? A round of applause, please. We're all friends here. Shake hands. Thank you. There we go. Great stuff. Stu and John on the board for that one. I don't want anyone to ever ask me that question again. Where are we going next? Rick's in. Peter, but Rick, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. It's about the gully gratings and why the arrows are where they are. They call gully. Love it. Carry on. Yes. What it is, is they're all hinged. They didn't used to be hinged in the old days. They used to be just inserts. Yeah. But unfortunately, people used to steal them and weigh them in at the scrap metal merch. They started to hinge them. And the thing about the hinge, the hinge has to be on the side of the oncoming traffic. And the reason for that is because if you imagine a gully grade, if you left it up, if you left it up, then if it's on the side of the oncoming traffic, a truck or car would just knock it back down again. Yes. There'll be some damage. However, if it was on the opposite side and you went into it because it's hinge, you would rip the front wheel off a vehicle. It's like those Bollard videos. Yes. I don't know if you watch. Do you watch Bollard videos? Well, you can imagine. I mean, I'm a big fan of bollard videos. There's an actual Twitter account called the World Bollard association that can entirely of clips of cars having accidents with bollards. I do follow that. I mean, I've got to be honest, he's told me off a few times for the comments. I've made. But that's not the story. There we go. Qualifications on this one? I'm a incorporated highway engineer for a local authority. So this is literally your patch. I mean, very much so. I've been waiting for a long time for a moment of snacks. This is a moment of beauty, isn't it? For both of us. Happy with this, I bet. And there's no way you're wrong, because I did wonder whether it's to remind you where the traffic is coming from if you're working on the gully grill. But you shouldn't really need reminding, should you? Not really, because you'd be in traffic management anyway, so nobody should be getting anywhere near you if you're in it, unless you've opened it to get your keys out. Absolutely love it. Right, right. Massive round of applause for Rick, please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That is a beautiful answer. And also that, the lingo, you know, you could tell he was going to come through with the goods when he talked about gully grills. And what was it? What did, um, Mitch call it? The flipping rain cover? Mitch, honestly, get over yourself, would you? Simba is in Glasgow. Simba. Question or answer? James. Carry on. Right, I'm going to answer on the. Why don't we call our parents by their first names? Yes. My theory is, like, it's born out of respect. Like, you know, like, you'd never call your parents by their first names, nor would I say, like, if for your mom, I'll call her James's mom, rather than, you know, like, whatever she's called. I mean, in my culture, coming from Zimbabwe, that's. That's the way I. You know, you would say mother of James, as it were. Yeah. Mother of James or father of James. Yeah. Rather than, you know, why is it respectful, though? Because we're not disrespecting people when we call them by their names. Yeah, but it is a mark of respect, though, like, you know, just that because you're an older person and you're, you know, you're not just going to, like. You know, it's not like your mate where, you know, you just, you know, called in Jim. But it's not a respectful mum mama. I think it's more to do with the noises babies make when they're first. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We did that question a few weeks ago and you said it was, you know, because it's a simple noise that the child makes. That's more likely to be the answer, isn't it? But. But why wouldn't you just then win when you become a. Because you see it somewhat like when teenagers become rebellious. Yes. At some age, and they want to try and test. Test it out. Yes. Call your dad by his first name. Yeah, but it's not, you know, I mean, mum. And I'm gonna give you a round of applause because I don't think we're gonna get an answer, but beyond that, a combination. A combination of what you said and then just. It's the first noises you make as a bambino. But that first noises thing was just. Because it's just simple noises that you can, you know. Yeah, but you don't. I mean, if it was father or pater or something like that, I think you'd have a point. But mum and dad don't sound very respectful, do they? Mark off your respect to them. All right, dad. All right, mom. Yeah. It's not very respectful, though. It's not respectful. It's like a nickname. It's a shortening of the. Of the word now. Right. Yeah, that's like, you know, it's, you know, the language. Moving on. But you would have, you know, before it was. No, I'm not convinced. I'm not convinced, but I'm feeling generous, so you can have a round of applause. I'll take one. Oh, you're very welcome. My pleasure. 57 is the time. Why is everyone. Harry is in Norwood Junction. Harry, question or answer? I've got an answer. James, carry on. It's the. Well, it is an answer to the. Look after question. Jolly. Jonathan, I'd like to give some different examples of this. It's actually a phrasal verb, which is a verb that is. That has a preposition or a particle added after it. Add meaning of direction, or to add a completely different meaning to the verb itself. And the example is screw. Yeah. So you screw in down, but then you screw up or screw around, which has absolutely no meaning when you think about the preposition. No, it's basically just to add meaning to common verbs, and it adds, you know, could be millions of different meanings to one verb. Basically. I think you've given us a technical explanation of what it is, but not why we use it in that context. It's. It's more informal, and I believe it sort of originates from shakespearean times. I believe compounds of that. Howie, you can always get away with a bit of Shakespeare. You can always say, I believe it originates from shakespearean times. I believe it's just the evolution of language. And also, well, I must have started for a reason. I'm looking after you. I'm looking after you. I'm looking. I'm not looking at you. I'm not looking. I'm looking after you. What does it mean, looking? Because I can't look right at you. I have to look directly behind, looking around you, making sure you're safe, making sure you're not under attack from anyone. Looking after. Looking out for, you know, what is the origin of any. Well, that was the original question. It was. And it's very difficult to give an answer, but I'm just explaining. But I'm going. You get a round of applause for the english lesson. And I mean that most sincerely. Thank you. Qualification as english teacher, I presume? No, Shakespeare's. Great, great, great, great english teacher for ten years. Aren't we all? Thank you, Harry. Great stuff. I'm gonna do you know what? Don't make a habit of this cause it will really backfire. But I'm gonna give it to Jim this week, even though he begged for it, just cause I enjoyed his answer. And it's been a particularly good mystery hour with a dizzying array of accents. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you'll find all of LBC's shows to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcast, including a special one off, self contained, bespoke mystery hour podcast. That's a real treat there. You can download loads of them. Get global player for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Sawbrick with you at four. But it's time now for Sheila Focus.