Why do we cry?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Talk about a gear change. Sometimes you have little. Conversations are fair. One of the most important interviews I'll do this year, no doubt just then with Kira. And then coming off the back of that, we launch into our weekly visit to the shallow end of our shared time together. But hey ho, it is indeed time for mystery hour. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of me is hoping that Kira has left the building. Now, I don't want her to think that she's just appeared on a radio program that usually just faffs about doing rubbish like this instead of discussing all the important issues that we discuss the rest of the time. So, for 1 hour of the week, if you're new to this program, we have some fun. And that hour is now upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. But we will be returning to the major issues of the moment, not least the situation in Ukraine tomorrow morning at ten, five minutes after twelve. So this is a game, essentially, which has no purpose except entertainment and amusement and a modicum of enlightenment, a modicum of education. But if you're anything like me, you'll probably forget the stuff that you learn before. Before Sheila's even reached her first junction on her program, I offer a promise that you will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. You will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. And I stand by that promise. I don't think there's ever been a mystery out that hasn't delivered at least one nugget of knowledge to every single person listening. But as I say, you might have actually lost that nugget of knowledge by. By 01:10 this afternoon. Or of course, if you're listening on the podcast, whatever time is relevant. It is a feature where people ring in to ask questions, silly, serious, scientific, or none of the above, and then other people ring in to answer the questions. And if you've never listened to it before, you're in for a treat. The podcast is available, by the way. Quite a lot of people every holiday season get in touch. To say, I didn't realize there was like a back catalogue of podcasts. We listened to eleven while we were driving to Spain, and it's really lovely because all the family enjoy it. Everybody learns something. It's generally pretty funny, and there are loads of them available on global player LBC. And in recent years, months, last Christmas, in recent months, we've had a wonderful addition to the mystery, our family, which is the mystery, our board game, a free copy of which makes its way into the grasping mitts of whoever provides my favorite contribution to the weekly program. The terms and conditions are, of course, available at LBC Dot co dot UK comma, where you can also find details of how to get yourself on the global player app, which is probably the easiest way to access the mystery hour archive. That's it really, isn't it? My decision is final. I literally just send a game to my favorite contributor. If you're not lucky enough to win one, don't worry, you can buy one. Mysteryad dot co dot UK is the exclusive, dedicated portal, but you can also find copies of the mystery out ball game. And you can. They're easy to find because my grinning face, a photograph that looks as though it was taken about 30 years ago, will be grinning at you from the from. It wasn't taken 30 years ago, taken about 20 years ago. We'll be grinning. It will be grinning at you since the power of Photoshop and airbrush. We'll be grinning at you from the box. Or of course, you can. As ever, with almost everything else on the planet, you can buy it from, uh, Amazon. Amazon as well. And that round of applause is, of course, the sound you will hear if you provide a correct answer. I've done it again. It's gone down the wrong hole and I'm live on the radio. This kind of thing never happens to Chris Moyles. Chantelle is in Tower Hamlet. Chantelle, question or answer? Question, please. James, take your time. No problem. I'm wondering, why do we cry? So we just swallowed something down the wrong hole and you're live on the radio desperately pretending not to be having some sort of paroxysm. I was just thinking that you might be crying now, you might be producing tears. Why do we produce tears? Why do we do that? It's a lovely question, actually. I can't believe we've never had it before, which means we probably have. But given that I can't remember the answer, I'm happy to ask it again. You've also, Chantelle, given me a wonderful opportunity to talk about the last time I cried before this time, which was last night, watching sister act. What's watching sister act? At the Hammersmith Apollo, which is, I mean, a musical to beat all musical. An absolutely magnificent show. It's on for another five weeks, so if you get the chance to get yourself down there. I could not recommend it highly enough. Beverly Knight just delivering a performance of sublime perfection. Chantal, wow, you weren't expecting this, so I might be able to get down my hands. It is absolutely, Britt. Jennifer Saunders playing the mother superior. Clive Rowe playing the copper. There's a young woman in it who plays sister Margaret Roberts or something. Mary Margaret Roberts, is it? Or sister Mary Roberts who just comes to the front of the stage and delivers. I mean, she's not even in the, in the sort of on the, on the top of the poster. And she delivers one of the most beautiful moments I've ever seen on a west end stage. But my goodness me, Beverly knight, great friend of the program, delivers the performance of. I just, that's why I cried last night, because it was such a beautiful, so why do you think, though? Why do you think the tears came out? Why, what was, what was the function of the tears? You mean the evolutionary function really, don't you? Yeah. Yeah. We sweat to help control body temperature and we sneeze. If we do, why do we produce tears? Why does that happen? And it happens in a range of situations. Happy, overwhelming, sad, angry even sometimes. Why does that happen? I, uh, I don't know if I should say this on the radio. I make sure that no one makes sure no one clips this because it's. I'm about to go peak partridge. I sometimes cry a bit when I'm eating really nice cheese. Do you not get that? I kind of get weird. No, I shouldn't have gone. I'll leave that one there, Chantel. Let's pretend that never happened. Let's pretend that bit never happened. All right. No one was listening anyway. Exactly that. Exactly that. Eleven minutes after twelve, you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Great question there from Chantelle about crying, which contained absolutely no reference to cheese whatsoever. Great, lovely stuff. Great stuff. Why do we cry? Why do we cry? John is in Bristol. John, question or answer? Hiya, James. Welcome home, mate. Hello, John, how are you? Welcome home. There he is. Yeah, I phoned you a couple of weeks ago when I was on my second honeymoon in Greece and you was away. Whereabouts in Greece were you? I were on the island of Skiathos Bay. In Skiathos. Did you have a lovely time? Oh, it was fabulous because we were celebrating, well, it's my birthday Saturday and I'm 70. We're celebrating our 15 years wedding anniversary and. Oh, that's nice. Oh, that's. So when you say a second honeymoon, it was with the same person. Oh, yes. Oh, that's nice. I thought it was. Yes. That's lovely. Yeah. And we said. And we did our wedding vows on the beach at sunset. It was absolutely lovely. Holyomorphi. Yeah. So that's. That's where the question came from. Go on, then. Where. Where does the word honeymoon come from? Or what does it mean? I know it's ancient, yes, but there's more to it than just slap and tickle. Well, hang on, you mean the actual etymology, the origin of the word? Yeah, yeah. I know this. I actually know this. You do? Yeah. Go on, then. I think it's in the board game. John, have you got the board game? I have got the board game, yeah. No, it takes a lot. You'd have to play a lot of games to get through every card in it. I know, I haven't seen that, no. Um. You know what Mead is? Yes. Mead is a drink made out of honey, right? That's right, yeah. An alcoholic drink. Yeah. If you got married in the olden days, the village would all club together. Not so much in the UK, I don't think. But I'm not. I mean, that. That is moot to give you enough mead to last a month, and a month being a lunar month, as in one passage of the moon, and that is where honeymoon comes from. God almighty. No, just call me James. Yeah, James. I mean, that's. Isn't that great? Yeah, I think that's. I think you're absolutely spot on with that. Yeah. Qualifications. It's come up before on this jar. I'm 99.9% certain of it, but that doesn't matter. It's all in the moment, isn't it? I tell you what, on the Friday night before we flew out to Greece, we nearly never made it. Why is that, then? Well, because I went down the garage just outside Bristol, little village Farrington gurney. Oh, lovely. And the garage to fill the car up with petrol, the pound signs roaring away, hardly any juices going in. And I came over all faint and dizzy at the cost. 111. And they asked the symptoms and I told them. Here we go. Hang on, everybody. Wait, wait, wait, everybody. Punchline. Incoming. Go on. They said you're suffering from coronavirus. Give me a round of applause, quick. Mind how you go, John, congratulations. Was it worth the wait? Jack's in Hayward teeth. Jack, question or answer? Question, please, James. Likewise. I'm just wondering, why is a sweet potato classed as one of your five a day and a normal potato isn't? Yeah. I mean, you're presuming that a sweet potato and a potato are more closely related to each other than a apple with a potato. Yeah. I think you might be wrong. You see, I think a sweet potato might be more closely related to, for example, a carrot than a potato. Really? Yeah. That doesn't sound right, does it? No, it doesn't, does it? Now, I said it out loud, but it's not. I mean, there's not a lot of similarity between a sweet potato and a potato. Apart from external, apart from the shape, the flat. I mean, you do very different things with a sweet potato from what you would do with a potato. Well, no, because you can mash it, you can roast it, you can. Yeah. You can do that with carrot or a swede. It's more like a swede. So I'm putting it on the board, obviously. But I think the answer is going to be something along the lines of, even though we call it a sweet potato, it is not actually a potato. It is in fact a yam. Not a yam. But you know, something that is not a potato. Okay, well, get to find the answer. I shall do. I almost put money on as finding the answer to this one. Jack, do you like, eat. Do you like sweet potatoes? Because misses O'Brien sometimes says, oh, should we order sweet potato fries instead of fries? And. Oh, it's one of those things where you sort of think, oh, I have to say yes, because they're obviously so much more healthy. But, I mean, I'm having a burger. I don't want sweet potato fries with my burger. I want sweet potato fries with a steak. Lovely. Are you serious? Yeah. I'd much rather have sweet potato than normal potato. Heretic. Heretic. One of those. You're one of those communists, aren't you? Let's try and find out. Why is sweet potato healthier than potatoes? One of your five a day when potato per se is not. It's 1216 and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien 18 minutes after twelve. I've had quite a lot of complaints about that comment about crying when I eat very nice cheese, which is. Which is fair enough. And I should. I always like to air complaints on the program. I was quite honest and upfront about them. So this is what Liz in Westminster had to say. That is a disgrace. I know, I'm sorry. I won't comment about myself physical reactions to eating cheese again, ever. I promise. Sorry, James is in Leeds. James, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. So the letter w. Yes. So, on a seven english keyboard, when you look at it, it's more like Avv. Yes. So, in the english Alphabet, why do we call it auu when it looks more like Avv? Well, because it used to look like. Well, a v. I mean, in Latin, if I get this right. Yeah, carry on. So, no, because you used to look like v. You used to look like a v. It comes from the Latin, doesn't it? Oh, does it? I think so. I could be wrong, but, I mean, the obvious answer is that we used to, whatever it is, a double of it used to look like that. They've never gone, oh, let's call it auu, even though it is actually Avv. When they called it auu, it was auu. And in either the. The way we draw auu has changed a bit, or the way we draw a U has changed a bit, and I just. I get confused. What is it in Latin? Think of a latin word. Go on, James, think of it. No, I'm not good with lying. Sorry, just veiny. Vd. Vici. There's no u there, is there? Wainy, weedy, weechee. Is there a v and a u, in case. This isn't really helping, is it? But then, even when you go across our standard Alphabet, you think to put the u and the w next to one another, rather than separate it with a v. Yeah. I mean, you're going quite deep now. Just a little bit. It's the first letter of my surname and I've only just thought of it recently and I'm thinking, why is it auu when it's Avv? They wouldn't put a UVW. I mean, they didn't order the Alphabet based on what the letters look like, mate, did they? Yeah, that's true. No. So you've got a u of e and a w. And why didn't. Yeah, yeah, it's auu. It's got nothing to do with these. That's it. And also, if you're doing it by hand, it's auu, isn't it? Well, I. Well, my writing's atrocious, but I used to point my w's. I never used. What sort of a monster are you? Did you go to school? I should have been bad. Would have been beaten out of you by the monks at my school, mate. No, I mean, you can't do. You can't do a. You can't do a pointed v on a w. I went to a comprehensive squad, if that makes any change. Look, I'll put it on the board, but I'm pretty sure that it's was a w when it was invented, as it were. Well, see what we get. If we get anything. Yeah, well, who knows? I'll find out for you. Why is a w called a w and not called Avv? Zero? 345-626-0973 Tony's in sitting. Born Tony. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Tony along. Probably with most of my generation. When I was a child, I was told if you dropped a penny off the Empire State Building. I wondered if it was true. And if it isn't, would some clever person know what height you have to drop a penny off the building for the velocity to, well, kill someone? Rather unpleasantly, there would. I mean, there's terminal velocity, isn't there? So there'd be a point. I mean, it's not going to get eternally faster. Infinitely faster. The higher and the higher you go, there's a point at which it would never get faster. Did you also, weren't there bits about. You can see in the pavement at the bottom of the empire state building. You can see the grooves where pennies have hit or something like that. I think there was probably a kid at my school who went a little bit further than the classic. I heard one, but it wouldn't. Yeah, I don't think they would let you drop a penny off it. I've been up there a couple of times. Yeah. And there's fences up and everything, isn't there? You struggle to, um. Yeah, I love that one. I can't. I mean. You can't. Well, I can't believe I've reached the age of. Say again? Thank you for loving the question. I love board games, by the way. Ah, shameful behavior. Absolutely shameful. Shameless, shameful. They mean the same thing. Almost. All right. It's on the board. And your enthusiasm for board games is registered. And I can't believe one last thing before I go, Joe. Of course you can. Please don't go on holiday. It really ruins my. Oh, you don't? I do it too often. I have to go on holiday to remind my family why they want me to go to work, you see. Okay, well, I can say he's empty without you, mate. You're so sorry. Couple of weeks. Putting in a shift for that board game now, isn't he? Thank you, mate. Likewise. Thank you, Tony. I think some of the. Some of the stand ins did a great job. Tom certainly did. And Chris Bryant got some lovely feedback. Angela Rayner, Wes streeting. All got some big plaudits and quite a few people said they quite like Jeremy Hunt as well. Would you. Would you believe 23 minutes after twelve is the time Milton is in Rome? Milton, question or answer? Good morning. It's a question. Right. Okay. So I am of afro caribbean descent and I've only just realized that I actually do need to use sunblock. What happened? No, I suddenly started listening to experts. What are you gonna do? I mean. Oh, I see. You don't. I thought you got burnt or something like that. Well, yes, I. My skirt. My skin has experienced some tenderness. Yes, but still, you know, like most people, I would have ignored it and carried on, but. Okay, so my. I'm here and I'm getting mosquito bites as well. Yes. And so I normally use a body cream to keep my young and fresh looking. I get you. Is it coconut based? Is it coconut butter? It is, of course. Yes, exactly that. Same here. I like that. Makes you smell like a bounty bar. Which I'm told some ladies quite like Milton. I don't know what your experiences are in this field. I. No comment on the woman. So the question that I have. Yeah. Is that I'm now using four things on my skin, whereas I normally would only use the one. I have the body cream, the suntan lotion, the body cream, the suntan load, the mosquito repellent. Mosquito repellent. And the bite treatment. The balm. Oh, the bite treatment as well. Yeah. Okay. Yes, yes, yes, yes. So the question here is, which order should I put them on in? I was expecting a scientific question for some reason. I suppose it is. No, it is, it is, it is in a way. But it is because some. I mean, which order is most effective? And do any of them sort of counteract the other? Or. I mean, does the coconut oil actually attract mosquitoes? I mean, you know, should I? God, I thought of that makes you more. Yeah. So. So I. I've been thinking, James, for a couple of years I've been listening to you. Yes. And, and to echo your previous, please don't go on holiday. I mean, I don't know why you would require to go and why can't you do the show from wherever you are? I mean, just like I'm doing now, you know, you can do. Anyway. I need a rest, mate. I don't know. Just because I make it seem so easy doesn't mean. It doesn't exactly. Also, Keith needs a rest. Imagine what Keith. Imagine Keith would have to put. He loves it when someone comes in to do my holiday cover because they treat him with respect. They treat him with respect. They treat him like an esteemed professional colleague. Little do they know. But you're very kind. I like the question. And also I'm quite interested in the answer. I mean. So we're going to go with the coconut body butter, are we? Yes, but anything, because the coconut might be specific, something that the mosquitoes are attracted to. Would it. Would it. Would it cancel out the repellent and then the suntan lotion? Yeah. The fact is that since I got here ten days ago, they've had a go at me. I mean, they recognize the mosquitoes. Yeah. I'm not a local and they figure, you know, they're going to do. You know, I think. No, no, that's not right. There's vinegar. Vinegar. Vinegar. Vinegar is good. Drink a lot of vinegar. Really? Yeah. I'm sorry, I might get bitten. No, it's. No. Do you not like vinegar? No, no, no. Some nice vinegar. I mean, you're in Rome. You could have some balsamic. Have put a lot of balsamic on your. On your salad. Yeah, yeah, I get that. But that is in a very, you know, limited situation. But a little swig of cider vinegar. A little. This wig of cider vinegar now and then is actually quite pleasant. Very good for your guts. Keeps you regular. I'm sure it is. But my daughter was covered in mosquito bites a few years ago in Greece, and we were sitting in a tavana and a lovely lady at the next table was concerned for her and gave her advice to drink a little bit of vinegar. And so she did. And I mean, obviously she nearly gagged because it's horrible, but it. She didn't. She didn't. She bet. I don't think she got bitten again on holiday. Okay, so it's worth a thought. It's worth it. I mean, it's got. It's better than being covered. Go on. Just. Just a drop, then, would possibly. Well, look it up. I mean, I'm not necessarily qualified to be giving out medical advice, on reflection, but I just have. I mean, I'd have thought a couple of capfuls or something like that. It's just enough for it. Enough for it to be excreted later in the day. Enough for you to be giving off an undetectable hint of vinegar, but it would be detectable to your mosquitoes, you see. Fair enough. Fair enough. You can have that for nothing, Milton. Thank you and I appreciate your time. Very well. I've been thinking for a couple of years for a sensible question and now you've got a cracker. And finally I got one on. Yeah. And it's a winner. And the board game would. Would be just a bonus. Yeah. All right. I don't want to. I don't want to introduce this as a new sort of precedent on the program, everybody being. Because it undermines all the compliments. Now, it's. It's, um. It's Tony's fault this, isn't it? He sort of said lovely things about the program and me going on holiday, but, you know, very hard for me to separate that from the. From the naked desire for a free board game, lad. So, I don't know, 29 after twelve is the time. Shall I squeeze in Hannah or should we take her after? Yeah. Hannah in Chigwell. Question or answer? I have an answer. Oh, fantastic. Carry on, Hannah, to the crying question. Oh, yes, I think I do. Anyway, so when you get stressed or angry, which is normally why you cry, you produce stress hormones like cortisol and adrenaline and other nasties. And the body, when you cry, it's one of the body's ways of excreting, the kind of byproduct or those hormones that you don't need, I think. Yeah, of course, it must be qualifications. Well, so I'm a nurse, but I attended a psychology lecture and that's what the psychologist was telling me. That's perfect. I mean, I have a feeling to take her word for it. That is brilliant. And it makes perfect sense because there's got to be some sort of chemical explanation for the feelings that you have and getting the chemicals out of your system. That's got to be part of the reason why we don't spend our whole lives in states of, you know, euphoria or cheese based. Cheese. Cheese. Cheese based joy. I don't know why you cry if you're happy, though. That same reason. It's a different hormone or it's a hormonal reaction. Some people cry, some people don't love it. Gin and tonic, a lot of people are saying for mosquitoes as well. I thought the tonic. There's quinine in tonic, which. It's good for, malaria, but I don't know if it actually repels. Anyway, I digress. Hannah, you've got gin and tonic, you don't need a reason. Here's a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. And Amelia Cox is here now with the headline mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three 4560-609-7332 minutes after twelve is the time we've done the crying one. And we've done the honeymoon one. Why are sweet potatoes one of your five a day when potatoes potatoes are not? Why do we call it auu when it is, in fact, certainly on keyboards at least. AVV, if you throw a coin off the Empire State Building and it landed on the head of somebody below, would it kill them? And in what order should you put on your various onguins when you're on holiday? And the four that we have selected for the purposes of this question, thanks to Milton, are your coconut body oil or body butter moisturizer, moisturising cream, your suntan lotion, your mosquito repellent, but also your bite treatment. Does it matter? Is it going to have any effect upon the efficaciousness of any or all of the unguents if you were to put them on in a different order? Zero. 345-606-0973 Lisa is in Watford. Lisa, question or answer? So follow you. Carry on. Sweet potatoes. It's lovely when callers have pet names for presenters, isn't it? Oh, okay. All right, go on. Why is that one of my five a day when a normal potato isn't? It's to do with the structure of the carbohydrate in it. So in potatoes the structure is starch and in sweet potatoes, it's basically a sugar. And to be one of your five a day, a fruit or vegetable has to be a non starchy product vegetable, plant. And also in the colored sweet potatoes, you contain chemicals that act as precursors to vitamin A and stuff like that. Is there a genus or whatever the correct term is? They're in different categories of food? Completely. Sweet potatoes are related to morning glory, so they're part of the Convolaceae family, where normal potatoes are full on ICA. So they're part of the nightshade family. There you go. So nothing to do with carrots? Colour of some of them? No. What else is in the morning glory family? Things like bind weed, japanese knotweed, bugle weed, all those things that you really don't want in your garden. So it's a bit of an anomaly then. By didn't have been desirable. Yeah, it's just because it's a tuber and I think it's called a potato because it looks like a potato. That's what I said. That's what I said to Jack when he rang in the question. But I didn't go anywhere near as far as you did. What are your qualifications? That's an amazing answer. And you know, all your, you know dropping those technical terms into the conversation like they were going out of fashion. I'm a medical herbalist, so basically, I've studied plants and their effects on the body, etcetera. I mean, I'm sure you know this. You'd have been burnt as a witch 400 years ago, wouldn't you? Oh, yeah. Quite relaxed about. Good. No, but I just. What was. I wish I could remember what book I was reading recently. I think it was by Andrew Taylor. And it featured a character who was a medical herbalist and just handed down through generations the plants and the herbs that had effects on everything from period pain to, you know, to verucas or something like that. And it is. It's a. It's probably an under appreciated discipline that you practice. It is. And quite a lot of the drugs that are in the BNF are based on plants. And you were talking about quinine earlier, which comes from a plant. Comes from tree bark. Does it come from. No, that's aspirin. Yeah. Cinchona. Yeah. No, it comes from bark. My father in law was raving about turmeric, the effect that turmeric has had on his joints since he started taking it. Bit of black pepper, because that aIds absorption. That's it. Oh, this is nice. And also to put it in some oil, coconut oil, that will aid absorption of it. Is the last witch to be burnt in Europe? Yes. Yeah. No. Oh, mosquitoes. Just get with the sledgehammer. Not when it's on your husband's head before they land on you. But the last witch was burned in Spain in 1926. It wasn't that long ago. Is that right? I did not know that. Oh, you're well over the line for a round of applause, but a slightly silly question. What is your favourite herb? What? Favourite herb, as in all, your favorite thing. As in the thing that has the most profound impact or widespread impact that many people listening to this won't know about. Have you got one? Belladonna. What does that do? It's only available to herbalists. That's deadly nightshade. Yeah, but poisons are only about the dose. What does belladonna do in a good dose? It's a general relaxant for kind of internal muscle spasm, sweating, stuff like that. Wow. Oh, I could talk to you all day. I find this stuff. I find this stuff absolutely fascinating. How much of your own gear do you grow? Not that much, because I live in London and it's a bit polluted. So you get supplies. Bit of a brown bottle. Yeah. No, friends have been. I have gone pick stuff for people when they've needed it. You know, kind of nipped out into the woods and picked it. Yeah. Oh, I love it. I love it, Lisa. Thank you. That's an absolute education. Have a round of applause on me. Thank you. Martin is in Canterbury. Martin, question or answer? It's a question. James, it's good to speak to you. Thank you. You. Thank you. It's about. Well, I'm not sure if it's specifically about the first world war, but they. When you look at war records, they refer to the theater of war, the western from the west. Western european theater of war. And this is quite a curious term, theater. Why do they use the term theater of war? As in, oh, I see what you mean. Like, what's it got? It's not in a theatre, it's a bluming great war. So why do we have a big field? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, is it trying to think what the. What the word would be? Is it because they're trying to. I mean, it means like the totality of the war, doesn't it? Like everything that is. You talk about the theater of war. You're not just talking about one battle or one element? I think so. Because. Yeah. Because I came across this because I'm doing some family history at the moment and. And as you say, it's a totality. Because it was. One of my distant relations was within a bigger group of battles. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That could be the case. Well, I don't. But why theater? Why would they choose that word and not choose another word? I'll try and find out for you. I like that one. I have never thought of that before, but it's. They're my favorite questions, the ones that have been right under our noses all of our lives. Why do we say theater of war? Thank you, Martin. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you think you can answer that question. Glenn's in Westcliff. Glenn, question or answer? Oh, Lantida Nespatia. Lisa. That's old English. For a long time no speak. How you doing? Here he is. Here he is. Our resident. Our resident old English expert. Oldie English expert even. That's the one. Where have you been? What's going on? We still got lots of questions. I'm actually calling from Basel, from Bay, at work. Last time I tried to phone you was during lockdown when I was furlough. So, yeah, I've been. Yes, but there's been nothing relevant. Really? You've got a new linguist now? You've replaced me? You mean Martin up in Cumbria? Yeah. He's brilliant. You've got to get in quick, Glenn, if you're going to nick in your act, mate. Anyway, so, yeah, so w. Where's it come from? So, in the old English or anglo saxon period, we'd use a letter called one, which looks a bit like a stylized pull, and that's how you make the w sound. It was based on an early sort of germanic rune and it's quite. Well, we lost most of our germanic letters after norman conquest. And this is why w is relevant, because the Normans wanted to make the english spellings more relevant to Norman French or they wanted to sort of franchise the english spellings. So rather than using one, they would write two u's together to make the w sound. Hence it became w. And, like everything over time, we've got lazy and shortened it there to just look like the two v's there is. You know what I mean? So trying to sound more french and less german. Yeah, exactly. Incidentally, that's pretty much how language develops. We get lazy, we find quicker and easier ways of writing and saying things. Hence, as in, this is relevant. Honeymooners became honeymoon. Oh, look at that. What a hat. There you go. Great. Play honeymooner. Honeymoon. John will like that after. Did you like his car owner virus joke? Honestly, stuff I have to start with in the name of work, Glenn. Anyway, it's nice to have you back. And you get another one of these all day long, have you? Cheers, mate. Well, actually, I didn't ask what your qualifications are. Anglo Saxon is your passion. But you translate poetry a lot as well. Yeah, yeah. I'm actually a huge anglo saxon nerd, so I started learning to speak old English about ten years ago. I'm never going to be an expert, but it's just a good. You're already an expert, mate. Yeah. There you go. That's it. You've got to have. You got to own it. Lovely stuff. Thank you, Glenn. And there it is. It shouldn't attempt to sound less german and more french, which, as he tells us, explains quite a few evolutions in the. Quite a few stages in the evolution of common modern English. 1242 is the time. So we still need answer. Got that one. The Empire State building question, the theatre of war question. Milton skin regime question. That's all I've got. Okay. Oliver is in Walthamstow. Oliver, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on, Oliver. I've had this in my mind since before you went on holiday, so I'm glad, glad. Mystery hours back. So how quickly does it take a strand of your hair to turn grey or does it grow out gray? Because I've kept noticing greys appearing on my chest hair and they seem to pop up every day or two and I'm not sure if they're turning grey overnight or if I'm just noticing growing them. Does a fully grown hair turn grey or does a brand new hair come out grey? Is the question. Yeah. Yeah. I really liked. You know, I've just undone my shirt to check. Oh, I was looking at my chest there a minute ago while I was on hold as well, and I've noticed. I've noticed more since when you went on holiday and I don't. Since we put you on hold. I said, it hasn't been that long. I quite like that. I don't know why. I quite like the. I like it on my beard as well, the bits of grey. I don't know if I feel the same when it's entirely grey, but I quite like the salt and pepper they call it, don't they? Well, I've got an entirely gray mustache. Have you? Yeah. Ginger beard and a grey moustache, so it's. That's intriguing. Yeah, it plays on my mind a little bit. And then you've grown them out, have you? You actually. You wear a ginger beard and a grey mustache. Yeah. But it just looks more like an invisible mustache. It's a mixture, though. It's going to be a bit pepper. I like that. I will find out for you. So, I mean, we should really know this, shouldn't we? Does a fully grown hair suddenly turn gray or does. I think it does. Didn't someone on telly sort of go grey overnight? Was it Philip Schofield? I feel like I'm going grey overnight at quite a young age. I'm doing my best, Oliver. You know, everyone's a critic. I need someone to put my mind at rest. Let's find out. How does it work? Do they go grey? Does a fully grown hair go grey or does a new hair grow gray? Does it go gray or grow gray? That's not bad for 1245. Normally, that kind of verbal dexterity deserts me at about quarter to twelve. Go grey or grosgray zero. 345-606-0973 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1247. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I like this tweet. I'm currently listening to two grown men examining and comparing the colour of their chest hair. Live on the radio. It can only be mystery hour. Indeed it can. And a shout out quickly to Michael, who says, I found my first grey chest hair last week. Oh, dear. I think that getting older. Getting older is a bit like birth and death, in that there's a tendency to think that it's the first time that it's happened to anybody. In a way, every death and every birth feels like the first one ever. You never get bored with death or birth. Every birth is supremely exciting. Every death is utterly heartbreaking. But getting old is a bit like that as well. You find your first grey chest hair. You think it's absolutely incredible. My God, I've got a great. But of course, it. I mean, it's hardly news, is it, outside your own chest. There we are. It is now, Michael. I've shared it with the nation. 1248 is the time. Angela is in Norwich. Angela, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's an answer. Carry on, Angela. It's an answer to the question about theatre of war. Oh, yes. Have you heard of a chap called Karl von Clausewitz, great strategist, military strategist? I think I have, yes. On war, he wrote, didn't he? That's right. And he wrote it in German from Krieger. And one of the challenges is that, having written it in German, the western world translated it into English. He defined the term Kriegs theatre by translating the original latin term theatrum belli, which means denoting a portion of space over which war prevails with protected boundaries so that we can understand it, so it makes it interdependent, it makes it independent, makes it a specific area. It comes from the latin teatrum belli and the whole area. So everything that is contained within that war is in that theater, the theatre of war. So does theatrum not translate directly as theatre, then? Yes, it does. It does as well. So it's also the word they'd have used for where, I don't know. Plaush has put his plays on. Exactly. And if we think about things like amphitheatre. Yeah. Of course, the word goes straight back to defining a space in which something specific happens. So you have fay up and belly, which is the future of war. Great work. Qualifications, please, ma, in military history. Oh, lovely stuff. I bet you never thought it'd come in this useful, did you? Not quite, no. Round of applause for Angela, please. Oh, I like that one a lot. And that is. It wasn't Milton's question. Who asked that question, Martin, I've got a Milton and a Martin mixed up. So that's Martin's question, dealt with. And Angela answered that. 112 50 is the time. Harry's in Norwood junction. Harry, question or answer? I have a question. Mister O'Brien, thank you very much for having me on. I am 34 and only three of my wisdom teeth have come through so far, and I'm wondering why they come through in the first place because they have coincided these three times with breakups and I'm wondering whether stress or hormones has anything at all to do with it. Oh, bless you. Are you serious? Yeah. It's weird. It's weird growing a wisdom tooth every time you broken up with someone. Yeah. I don't know whether growing is the right. Don't have any more relationships, will you? Your mouth won't be big enough. Well, I need one more for the quartet, so I should probably go for another one, shouldn't I? Is that. I can't. I can. I've got. They're weird. Everyone's different with wisdom teeth, I think, or not everyone, but. But not everyone. Has all four come through? I've got one still below the surface. It pops up every now and then. They poke their enamel heads through and they sort of stay, or they don't, and it's all very. Mine goes back down again. Some of the worst pain I've ever been in involved an impacted. An infected, impacted wisdom tooth. Really nasty. I was frightened. And peanuts for years after that because I think I got it from a Snickers. And the dentist has a look. So some people, when you run your tongue right around the back of your mouth, there's no room for any more, which means they've probably come through or you have actually got a bit of unoccupied gum, which means there might be one under them. Yeah. And then some of them come through and cause all manner of problems and pain. I like your question. Why do. What prompts them to come through at the time? It's unlikely that it's linked to emotional trauma, Harry. I think very. It's probably. Well, cogenital, I suppose, isn't it? Congenital? Yeah, congenital or, I mean, coincidental in the context of your breakups, but just. Just. Yeah. All right, we'll find out. Why do they appear when they appear? Yes, please. Love it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Cheers, Harry. Wisdom teeth. Harry. And someone can answer that. Ideally, a dentist. 1252 is the time. Barbara is in Melcham in Wiltshire. Barbara, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's the answer to does hair. Can hair turn gray? Or go grey. Or grow gray. Barbara. Go grey or grow gray. It has to grow gray. Right. It can't turn gray. The hair's dead as soon as it grows out of the hair follicle. And it can't. It can't turn gray overnight. It can't just turn gray. It has to grow gray. Bit daft to me, really, wasn't it? Not to remember that? How can something dead. Well, I suppose dead things can change color, can't they? But they can. But hair can't. But they all. Unless you dye it, of course. Yeah. If one did, they all would. So what people probably miss is that we shed quite a lot of hair, don't we? So that's why you go gray. Because you're shedding the old hair and growing the new hair, which is great. And therefore you cannot immediately go grey your hair. So our man's chest hair. Whose chest hair was it? Yes, it's all the same. Hair is the same. Oliver's newly sprouted. And Michael's just found his first ever one that's grown complete. That's come out in the. But hair on the body. Eyebrows, eyelashes, chest hair. Pubic hair has a shorter life than hair on the head. It does indeed, which is why it will. It may appear to change overnight, but it doesn't. You've just grown a new one. I have good qualifications on that as well. I wondered where you were going there, Barbara. What are your qualifications? I was a color specialist in London for many years. Does anyone ever get their chest hair dyed? Yes, they do. Really? People like the late, great Peters, Nick Ferrari. Has he ever been in for a quick touch up on his chest hair? Oh, I couldn't say. Thank you. 1254 is the time. Charlie's in Bristol. Charlie, question or answer? Charlie, are you there? No. Let's have a little recap on. So is that. It's not just me, is it? Is he there? No. Cool. David? Yeah? What you doing, Charlie? You're alive on the radio, mate. You can't be faffing about like this. No. Okay. David's in Richmond. David, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. We don't have wisdom teeth. Some of us don't have wisdom teeth now because we are phylogenetically superior. That is, we don't need them any longer. Yes. That wasn't the question. I know it doesn't answer the stress thing. But it explains why we don't have them now. But why do they come through when they come through? That's to do with the same with hormonal and adolescence. And growth, just as our bone structure isn't fully established until 22 years of age. 23. Yeah. Is there an upper limit on it? So if your wisdom teeth haven't come through by the time you're 30, they're never going to come through. Yeah. They're not going to come through. Is that right? So it's just the same as. Let's think of another example. Just the same as anything else that grows, really. I mean, it's the same as your teeth, your baby teeth falling out. It's just a cycle. A cycle of time. Of humanity, as it were. Exactly. I quite like that. It's an evolutionary adaptation to not have wisdom teeth because we don't need them to chew branches and trees anymore. Did we used to chew branches and trees? No. Just made that up? No. I thought you might have done it, but we would have eaten a lot more uncooked and unprocessed foliage. We'd have been nuts and berry. I don't know why I started actually doing it when I was talking, but you would have needed more of a sort of vegetarian diet and you'd have needed to do more. Uncooked is probably the crucial point here, isn't it? Uncooked vegetables and. Oh, I like that a lot. Qualifications. I'm a medic. That'll do. Round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you, David. So many people now are telling me that they've got white. Elliot just found a white tipped hair. He says. I nearly took a photo. God, what's wrong with me? I don't know, mate. Why do I have some grey hairs? Not half a gray hair. I think someone's got lost a bit in translation there. The short answer is, I don't know, but the sun bleaching your hair, Paul, has nothing relevant in any way to any element of this conversation. And look, I chose the age of 30 arbitrarily. It's not that, it's just that nothing is going to make your wisdom teeth come through except the passage of time, and it will be at a different time for different people. In the same way that your baby teeth only fibrous, Julie. That was the word I was looking for, fibrous plants. Thank you. Fred's in Manchester. Fred, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Fred. Before I ask a question, a quick painting of the picture. Thank you. In european languages, there are symbols above or below the letter to help with its pronunciation. There are. A child at school is told to break down the word so they can read it. Yes. For example, YouTube. Using that philosophy becomes your to be Google go ugly read becomes Riyadh. So how come we don't have symbols above or below the word? Because we call it Loughborough. And not Loughborough. Loughborough or Laubaruf. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, that's not what accents do in other languages. Really? It does in German with the umlaut. And does Cedilla do that in Spanish as well? Good question. Not sure about Spanish. I don't know much about Spanish. But the grav and the acute angles in French, don't they just give you the. How you pronounce an e? They don't tell you what you do with an elided pair of words, whether you. Well, I guess the short answer is we don't need it. We've muddled through without. Is it? And you've only got a minute left. So unless Sheila Fogarty knows. Fred. Pablo espanol. Pardon? Bless you. I might be able to help with the spanish question. Why don't we have any accents on english words? Um. I don't know. No, me neither. Zero. 345-606-0973 but be quick. Charlie's in Bristol. Charlie. Question or answer? Hello, James. Answer. Carry on. Um. So it's an answer to the, uh. Penny falling off the. I. The, um. The tower. Go on. So a penny reaches a terminal velocity after about 50ft of free fall. So, you know, the Empire State Building is a hell of a lot taller. It is. Um. So you're not to kill anyone. It's gonna hurt. You're gonna know it's gonna smart, but it's. No. Yeah. Go on. Sorry. The terminal velocity is only about 25 miles an hour. Yeah. For example, you know, give a comparison when you're playing paintball. Yeah. You're getting hit by paintballs going 150 miles an hour. There you go. They're heavier. No, you've done it. You've done it, you've done it, you've done it, you've done it. So the answer is no, you don't. You don't die. Yeah. The answer is no, I won't over complicate it. Perfect. Well done. Tony will be happy. Was it Tony? It was Tony. A round of applause for qualifications chat. Ok. Come back, come back. Give that back. Give that back. Give that back. Engineer. What? I'm an aerodynamics engineer. Yeah, that'll do. Round of applause for. Absolutely all day long. That's it. I'm gonna pick a winner. I don't know that I wrote her name down, but I think she was called Angela. Was the medicinal herbalist called Angela. And, yeah, Angela wins the book, obviously. Angela wins. Also, I didn't. I wasn't trying to be funny when I said, do you grow all your own gear? Lots of people think I was doing some sort of subliminal druggie Whithnall, and I type referee. I was not. I just didn't know what other word to say for Urbs. Anyway, that's it for me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten up next. And go and see sister act if you get the chance. An absolutely brilliant show. And goodness me, we're so lucky to have Beverly Knight. And indeed, we're so lucky to have Sheila Fogarty, as shucks, thanks.