Who is the one hit wonder?- 11 Feb 16

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC six minutes after twelve and after that very depressing speech by Jeremy Hunt in the House of Commons, I guess the cheerfulness that is routinely provided by Mystery Hour will be even more welcome than usual. The way it works is this. You have a question bubbling away in the back of your brain to which you need an answer. You are seeking satisfaction of an intellectual or educational, possibly even rather trivial nature, and this is the place where you can receive that satisfaction. The number you need remains the same. The only circumstances in which your question will not be put on the board is if it's really boring. And I'm afraid our decision is finally, or if it is repetitious, if we can remember dealing with it in the relatively recent past. If you hear someone else ask a question to which you know the answer, you have to ring in. Them is the rules. The number you need zero 345-606-0973 the who, the why, the where, the when, the whence, the whither, the wherefore. I'll get one of those interrogative pronouns wrong one week, but I don't think I got any wrong. I got them all in there. Ring in now, ask the question and sit back and wait for the answer. You're not allowed to look stuff up. I sometimes forget to mention this, there's so many new people listening to the programme. I should stress that obviously we could Google quite a lot of this stuff. Not all of it, actually. You could Google some of it. And the reason we don't the reason why mystery hour is fun. And if you are new to this, you're going to have to take my word for it. The reason why it's fun is that the journey is actually more entertaining than the destination. It's not necessarily the nugget at the end that will delight. It's our struggle, our blind groping to get there. Trust me on that. All right. Do you need to know anything else? You're not allowed to be boring. I am. Before you complain, there's no rule in mystery that says I'm not allowed to be boring. Not allowed to be boring, not allowed to be repetitious. If you ring in and you sense that Victoria and Caroline are unimpressed by your answer, they're probably too polite to actually say, please go away, you're dull. So if you just sense that that's what they're thinking. Then do the decent thing and jog on. And I'll let you say the number of. I have phone lines free. Okay? Don't forget that this is now potentially enjoyed by 44 million people as part of the British Airways in flight entertainment. So be on your best behavior, please. Michael is in Dartford. Michael, what's your question? Good morning, James. My question is, I'm sitting here with the sunlight streaming through the roof of my conservatory. Do I have to go and stand outside in the cold? I've often wondered. My mum asked this on holiday in about 1980. Can she get a suntan through the car window when we were driving through Spain one year? I never. I never got the answer. Is that. That's what you want to know? Can you get a suntan in your conservative. You can dress it up in scientific lingo about vitamin D. You want to know if you can tan in your conservatory. Well, I still like to know about the rhythm. Indeed. Because all these doctors listening to the show today, they must be able to give me an answer. I think they've all gone to the pub, actually, Michael, to drown their sorrows. So it's not the tanning that you're interested in, it's whether or not the vitamin D will get into your system, which is prompted. Your body produces it in reaction to the sunlight, doesn't it? I think. Well, that's what they say. I believe so, yeah. Well, I don't know. I don't know. Let's find out. Okay, so, sunlight, vitamin D. We probably should stop now before our joint ignorance on this issue is too obvious to everybody, Michael. But the general thrust of the question is, are you still going to get your vitamin D from sunlight if the sunlight is passing through glass before it reaches you? Time is ten after twelve. Kareem is in Notting Hill. Kareem, question or answer? I've got a question. Please carry on. How many countries in a war does it take for it to become a world war? Seven. What? What, one from each continent? Yeah. No, that's what my mum said. I didn't believe her. No, your mum's on it. Oh, what then? Anyways, only six continents. Oh, there weren't any after I made that up. Now there's seven continents, now there's twelve continents. It sounds. I think I know even less about this than I do about vitamin D. What are the qualifications that you need to become a world war? Yeah. It might not have anything to do with the number of countries involved. If Russia went to war with China, it would be bigger than arguably the engage. Would it? I don't know. Shall I shut up now before I make an even bigger idiot of myself than I have already? Steve's in Beckenham. Steve, question or answer? Yes, a question. Yeah. I wonder if there's anybody who can explain to me why is when you fill a plug, a sink up or a bath with water and you let the water out, why does it always run out in a clockwise direction? It's the same. The same with a shower. It doesn't. Well, I've always found it does. It must where I live. Yeah, it does. In Beckenham. Yeah. But in Australia it goes the other way. Ah. And that, I think, is part. And that is part. That is part of the answer to the question. Well, there you go. I could tell that by the fact that you'd never seen a plug hole drain in an anti clockwise fashion or you'd been to Australia but not actually washed while you were there. But I didn't think that was likely. It's because the world is turning now. I know. I'll leave it. It's one of those days, Steve, where I'm going to make a complete idiot of myself if I try to answer any questions. But I know that it goes the other way on the southern hemisphere. So that will be part of the answer, won't it? Only the southern hemisphere. It goes your way in the northern hemisphere. It's not just Beckenham, it's the whole of the northern hemisphere, mate. And in the southern hemisphere it goes anti clockwise. Are you 100% sure? Yeah, I think I am, yeah. Do you get round of applause? No, because I don't know why it goes clockwise in the northern hemisphere or indeed why it goes anti clockwise in the southern hemisphere. I just presume it has something to do with the rotation of the earth. Okay, so if you're on top, let's just imagine a turning ball, right? Yeah. Have you got that in your head? Yeah. So the ball is turning and we're on the top looking down and it's going in a clockwise fashion. If we move to the bottom and look up. Yeah, it's still got. It's going in an anti clockwise fashion. That's why I just did it with pictures. The cameras are on. I just did. Look, watch. The world is going around like this. Here's Steve. Steve. Just getting out the bath. I'm doing it now. Yeah. The cameras are on. People can see this. Steve. This is the future. What a time to be alive. This is the future. So we're looking up. And then we're bringing it down. So there's Steve, just stepping out of the bath. Oh, God. There's an image you're never going to want to see. And you're looking down. Yeah. And then it goes underneath, looking up anti clockwise. Yeah, that's it. Round of applause for me, Steve, you're going to catch your death of cold. Go and get dried. Thanks very much. Carry on. Michael's in Waltham Abbey. Michael, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Bring it on. Right, pre decimalization, we still had. We had pounds, shillings and pence. Yeah, yeah. Why did. The pennies were never written. So if you looked at a price of something, for example, one shilling and sixpence, it was one S 6D. Yeah. Why was it D and not P? Because we still had pennies, didn't we? Why. Why was a penny always followed by a d, not a p? It's Latin, isn't it? Is it latin? Something to do. Denari did Latin. Oh, I know this. Come on. I'm already getting complaints about the last answer, so I think I got it wrong, mate. And even with the pictures as well, even with the visuals, I think I'm going to owe Steve an apology, so I'm going to leave this one alone. I said to him, if I try and answer this, I'm going to make a prune of myself. I tried to answer it. I made a prune of myself. I think your answer's got something to do with Latin, but I'll wait for someone cleverer than me to come on and answer it for you. All right, carry on. Shams is in the city. Shams. How are you, mate? Yeah, not too bad. How are you, James? Yeah, mustn't grumble. You're famous, you know. Oh, David kick. Why not? You are. You are one of my most famous callers. That your cat's funeral? That call went viral, mate. Yeah, exactly. But at least have the courtesy you remember. My cat's name is Jojo. I know. Not Bob. No, not Bob. Bit of an in joke, that, but if you go to the LBC website, you can find out what Shams and I are talking about. Have you got a question or answer for me, Shams? I've got an answer for you today, James. Good man. This will be my hat trick. In reference to the suntan through panes of glass sitting in his conservatory, the answer is yes. But for your mother, it'll be no, because car windscreens stop uv light passing through. Hence, if you're wearing glasses, that change color. They don't change color behind the windscreen. So in a sheet of plain glass, won't take anything out of the sunlight, as it were, uv rays. Is it the uv that promotes the production of vitamin D as well? Yeah. Oh, that's great. So in his conservatory, unless he's got some weird treated glass, he's going to be fine. Yes, but in some conservatories, they may have the glass treated because. Yes, because the amount of glass, hence, likewise in a car, why they treat all the glasses? Because there is a lot of glass qualifications. Shams, one, my optician told me, and two, just life. That will do. Round of applause for shams. Quarter five. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 90 minutes after twelve. Let's deal with a little bit of housework before we get back to the questions and answers in this week's mystery, Rob, I just need to say, take care, mate, because Rob's got to stop listening to me now, as his fiancee likes to listen to mister Hour in the car and they're driving to visit family tomorrow. So safe journey to you. Rob Fuzz has been in touch with response to Jeremy Hunt's imposition of this new contract on doctors and he has got a very good mystery, actually, but I don't think we'll be able to answer it. He's wondering what happened to the narrative about this government providing hard working people with their just desserts. I don't know. Maybe doctors aren't considered considered hard working people. There's a few things there. And quite a lot of you have asked why we haven't been discussing the front page of the Times today, which details all of the violence, homophobia and racism among people that fought for Ukip in the last election. Well, we didn't discuss it on the grounds. I didn't think it was news. Let's get back to mystery hour. The number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 the questions that currently need answers include how many countries it takes to make a war, a world war, why old Pence was denoted with a d in written language. And it may be that there's going to be a steward's inquiry on my answer to the plug hole question. Adie's in Bracknell. Adie. Question or answer? It's an answer. The plug hole. It doesn't matter whether you're in the northern or southern hemisphere. No, it's got to do with. This was on Mythbusters a while ago and they found a sink where it went round clockwise in the northern hemisphere, took it to the southern hemisphere and it still went round clockwise and they did vice versa. They took one that went anti clockwise and it actually came up that it was a design of the bowl, not anything to do with the earth's atmosphere. So, I mean, not only do I have to give my round of applause back, I also have lost a little bit of dignity that I can never get back. Ad. Oh, you can get that back. It's no problem. I'm sure you'll answer more. Really? I've just got. I've got. Is Natalie arguing with that? Have we got a different answer? Hang on. Mohammed is in Belfast. Mohammed, what's going on? No, I disagree with that fella. Well, you disagree with Ad. Yeah. And with me. Yeah. Well, I think I only caught half of your answer, but it seemed a bit wish washy, if you don't mind me saying. No, that's fine, mate. You feel your boots? No, it's to do with centripetal fossil. I'm going to give you the example. You know when you put, as a kid, you put your. A penny into one of those things and it turns around and goes to the bottom. Yeah. Now, think about the fact that gravity goes towards the center of the earth. So what you have here is something called uniform circular motion, where as it moves round, it moves towards the center centrifugal force. So it doesn't matter if you're in the southern hemisphere, it will go in the opposite direction. So think of that penny thing. Think about it flipped upside down. Yes. It's effectively going in the opposite direction, but if you were to put that penny in facing the other way, we'd still do exactly the same, but in the opposite direction, whether in the northern hemisphere or the southern. I was just using it as like, kind of like an example. But it is. It is centrist false, because this is the only topic that I was actually good at in mechanics. All right, well, this was on Mythbusters, and they actually took a sink unit from Australia and bought it up here and then took one from here and took it down there to see if it would change direction. And it didn't. And they said it's to do with the design of the bowl. Yeah, it's to do with the design of the bowl, not because it's in the northern or southern hemisphere. Your call, James. What do you reckon? I think you. I think you're both right. I think. I don't think you're disagreeing with each other. Thanks for remembering I was here by the way, guys, I was beginning to feel like something of a gooseberry, but. Hello. But I think you're both agreeing with each other but without realizing it, aren't you? I'm not sure. Right, should we just get. Let's get the round of applause out of there. You can share it and we'll move on. Thanks, boys. 23 minutes after twelve, you're listening to mystery hour, the plug hole. I've got a horrible feeling. I want to close that down now. All right. Seriously. And we still need to know how many countries it takes to turn a war into a world war. And the d. That's really easy. I'm sure it's to do with Denarii or Latin or something like that. Anyway, Simon is in Orpington. Question or answer, Simon? Question, James, is for my daughter. Oh, yes. Mincemeat in mince pies. Yes. You asked me very simply, why does it have no mince or meat in it? And why is it there for mincemeat? That's a lovely question, isn't it? No, I mean, it is a lovely question. We are rubbish, dads, you and me, because that's the kind of thing that our kids are bound to. They must have asked us. I'm sure we've answered it in the past. Can't remember, mate. Never heard it. No, nor have I. Nor have I. Why is it called mincemeat when there's no mince in it or meat in it? It's a very good question. Well, it has mince. I mean, something's been minced, hasn't it? It's all sort of chopped up currants and stuff like that. So the mince bit, as in beef mincemeat in Christmas pies, rather than, obviously a minced meat pie. There's no mystery as to why minced meat pie is called a minced meat pie, but a mince meat pie in the context of Christmas? What? Why? Where does that come? Yeah, you're on. All right. I like that. How old's your daughter? 47, James. All right. 24 minutes after twelve. Richard is in acting. Question or answer, Richard. An answer. Bring it on. So it's not plumbing plug holes. If it's plug holes, I'm sending you home. No, no, I couldn't say. Jeremy Hunt. Why? Carry on. That would be a question, wouldn't it? Yes, it would. Right. An answer. Pounds, shillings and pence. The original pound note. Let's start with the pound, was a promissory note, not a unit of currency. And it said, I promised to pay the bearer of this note, the sum of in gold. And the Latin for pound is libre, as opposed to liber, which is book the d and the s. The s is solidus. Now, the solidus, invented by Constantine in the fourth century, was to stem the inflation of the previous hundred years and so forth, was the stable unit of currency, which was tariffed originally at 72 to the pound and was the stable unit of currency until the 11th century, when it was debased by the Byzantines. The Arabs refer to the solidus as the dinar. Dinar, yes. Yeah. Now, the de is denarius, which was the. When it talks in the Bible about a shepherd being paid so much per day, it's so many denarii. You know, the perfume that the woman pours over Jesus's feet. Yes. That a year's pay, that's 300 denarii. Now, that was tariffed originally at 1200 to the pound. But with the inflation and the debasement of the coinage, it became, by the time of Constantine, virtually worthless. It was 3 million to the pound. Pounds, shillings and Pence is simply that, if I've got it right, the Latin for liber, Solidus, Denarius. And because written down, it would have been too confusing to change it over the years until decimalization. P for pound and P for penny. Could you, if you think about it, P for pound. A p for Penny would be ridiculous. Yeah. This is strong qualifications, Richard. Are you a classicist? I did it in my first year at uni, yes. What were you reading, if you don't mind? My full degree is history. Yes. First I did classics because I like. Finally. Finally. It's coming useful, Richard. Yes. I normally come on and talk about Neptune and the sun. If something like that comes up again, can you hold it till next week and I'll come on with an answer? I'll do my best. You're quite right, because we're not allowed. We're not allowed double bubble on this drop. In fact, you never are. Well played, Richard. Mincemeat and the world war. Then we're still left with Fred's in Ilford. Fred, question or answer? Answer, James. Come on, Fred. About world wars. Yes. Nothing whatsoever to do with the amount of countries because the seven years War ranged all over the globe. You had the British capturing Manila and fighting in America and fighting in the continent. But it wasn't called a world war. Neither was the napoleonic war, which also had fighting all over the globe. It was just the academics in the 1920s. What would make. What does it. What would be a world war, then? I mean, is there no criteria at all? It's just. It's just words. It's just words. Yeah, it was. Besides, there must be more to it than that, Fred. Well, there have been wars that have included as many. No, I know that, mate. I'm not. I'm not completely stupid. But wasn't it. Isn't it the idea who were Napoleon's allies? It depended on when. When he kept on. Well, isn't that what makes it a world war when you have two sides made up of more than one country? So you've got your. You know, historically you'd have your napoleonic wars, which would be Napoleon against Britain. Or. I mean, we had allies, but we were always fighting against Napoleon. You have your sort of sino japanese war, you have your prussian campaigns, and it was always on one side. There'd only be one aggressor. But a world war is when both sides have more than one aggressor. Seven years war. They were a series of allies. Say that again. In the seven Years War, which the Americans call the french indian wars, you had several different alliances. You had the French allying with the Austrians, who was on the other side with the British and the Prussians. You're quite good, then. So that doesn't. Well, maybe you need four or more. I'm going to give. I don't think I can give you a round of applause because you haven't actually answered the question. You've just suggested that there is no answer to the question, which is philosophically fascinating but not definitively qualifying for a round of applause. Fred. Okay. I can't remember who the academics were in the twenties who decided to call the first world War. The first world War. Yeah. That's when they made the distinction. They. They were calling it the great War, but. So the napoleonic war being called the great War, so some. I can't remember. All right, well, I may give you a retrospective clap, if you pardon the expression. It's, uh. Thank you. No go. It's gone too early. Trigger mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve is the time, mister is underway. I'm going to level with you now. It's possible that every single thing we've done so far has been a little bit wrong or completely wrong. I don't really know. Apart from the pounds, shilling and pen. Thank God for Richard and his history degree. Apart from that, the Liber solidus and denarii being the reason why we write pounds, shilling and pence in the way that we do. Historically, the penny would be with a d. I think we might have got everything else wrong. The world war question still needs answering. I wonder if it's to do with continents rather than countries. The circular motion down the plug hole, which. I gave a round of applause out for two. In fact, I took the first one and appear to have been horribly wrong. I'm not sure that we have actually gone definitive on that one either. And also the vitamin D passing through glass. One of my favorite callers historically shams in the city. He of the boat bound cat funeral. For regular listeners. He got a round of applause for that. A lot of people are questioning whether or not he got that right as well. So this could be a historic mystery hour for all the wrong reasons, where almost every single thing we've done has turned out to be wrong. Thank God. I said to you half an hour ago that the whole charm of mystery hour is that the journey is a lot more fun than the destination. It would appear that all our destinations have gone a little bit dolally, but I hope you're still enjoying the journeys. Aaron is in Romford. Aaron, question or answer? Question. Go on. My question is, what's the difference between a lake and a pond? Come on, you've got to go to the mystery archive before you ask a question like that. We must have dealt with that about a million times. I can't remember. Well, it's a good question, then. In theory. Just because my short term memory is not what it used to be, suddenly your question becomes quality. I don't think that's particularly fat. I don't know the answer. Because some ponds are bigger than lakes and some lakes are bigger than ponds and I don't know the difference. I think it's to do with draining. I think. I think there's no in or out with a pond, but with a lake, it might. Yeah. No, no, look. What? Lakes get rivers or streams going into them and ponds don't. That's what it is. Yeah. Lakes fill from water courses, ponds just fill from the rain. Oh, okay. You sure? No. Okay. Not even a little bit? Can't you tell? Fair enough. 75% of my job, mate, is plausibility. All right, difference between a pond and a lake. Someone's going to go on the blooming archive at LBC dot co dot UK. Get the answer, ring in and get a round of applause. It should have been mine. Aaron, take care. Barry's in Barnhurst. Question or answer, Barry? It's an answer. James. Carry on, Barry. To mince meat. Yes. It did originally contain meat. What it was. There were meat pies and people put fruit, etcetera, into them because it helped preserve it, made it tasty when it wasn't very tasty. And gradually the fruits content went up. Meat content went down. So all we have left now is the suet that's in it. In the pastry? No, in the mincemeat itself. Is there suet in mincemeat? Yeah. You can buy vegetarian ones as well without me. Quite right. To sweet meats, I guess. Possibly. Originally, yes. Sweet meats qualifications, Barry? I answered it last time. I see. Because we've got a new producer. Mister is going down there, tell you. Which way are we going? Around the plug hole, because we're certainly going down it. Oh, I don't know. That's not a qualification. What was your qualification last time? I did a social history degree. Just say that, then avoid embarrassment for me. Round of applause for that. I don't know. Do you get another round of applause? I'm not sure you should, actually. No. I'll give you a vegetarian round of applause this time. 1238 is the time. Ella is in Homoton. Ella, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Ella. I just wondered if anyone or any band set out at the outset to be a one hit wonder, if they just had one song and they went to a record producer and said, I've got a song and it's going to be amazing, it's going to be a hit, but I don't want anything to do with it afterwards. I don't want a musical career. I'd like to release one song and then move along. Yeah, well, Terry Wogan had a song, I think. I don't know if he did. I think he just didn't. He just released more than one record. Is that your backing singer there in the background? I don't know, I just. I just wondered. My husband said that it's nonsense. Nobody would just write one song and just want to release one song and that would be it. Why not? They've always got other material. Well, he said they've always got the material. It's just the. Sometimes the record companies don't invest enough or their other stuff's not as good. Oh, yeah. I think. I think you could just write one song and say, I think, off the top of my head, I think I've got one. Oh, no, I haven't. No, no, no. They did another one, didn't they? For the. I was going to say fat Les. Do you remember Fat Les doing the vindaloo but I think they did one for the olympics as well. Chesney Hawks, obviously, is the obvious answer to the one hit wonder question. But he was. No, no, I know, I know, I know. He was clearly hoping to have lots more hits afterwards. He didn't realize. Do you know who wrote the one and only? I did. I can't remember. Go on. Nick Kershaw. Oh, I didn't then. Has there ever been a one? I go with Terry Wogan on this, but I don't think that's going to go definitive. I know he, because I was reading all his obituaries last week and he did have a big hit in the seventies, I think, with a song. I think it had flowers in the title, but I don't know whether he had other hits. Who else would you have? Someone who was famous for something else but released one record would be your best chance. Oh, 74, 75. Come on the radio the other day. Yeah. And that's a great song. And that's what started the debate. The crazy frog. Well, yeah, but he had loads of songs, didn't he, the crazy frog. Did he? I'll put it up one. Just genuinely trying to get a single hit. Why? Have you written a really good song? Is that what this is all about? No, I've written a book and it looks like it's going to be published, but wants me to write another one and I don't want to. It's taken me my whole life to write that one. Is it a novel? No, no, it's a children's book. Oh, well, don't you want to write another one? You might get lots of money. I don't know, I just. A lot of my life went into that problem. I just. I haven't got time to write another one. Fair enough. They kind of put me under pressure to write another one and I don't really want to. I just. If they publish that one, that'll be fab, but that'll be it. But you don't. You don't necessarily want to be tied down to. And that's what your husband's getting annoyed about. He's saying, don't be ridiculous. Of course you've got to write another one. Yeah, yeah. We're covering a lot of ground here, Ella, aren't we? What are you going to have for lunch? There you go. I could write your biography now. It's 1241. Sometimes I straight. Good conversation like that. Because part of it is extended, because we're both clearly hoping that a penny will drop. I've got all my colleagues shouting in my various. What about the wazzup song? What about the crazy frog? To be an artist who set out to have. I think Terry woke. Did Terry Wogan release more than one record? I don't think. What about Betty Hill, the fastest Milman in the west. Ernie, that didn't. Did he do. I don't know. I can't check. I don't know. We need to go definitive and I can't. Ella, take care. Good luck with the book. Louise is in Sutton. Question or answer? Louise? It's an answer. Carry on. An answer to the vitamin D question. So really it's the stewards inquiry. So we are genuinely looking at the possibility that almost everything that's happened on mystery hour this week has been wrong. I think it was wrong, yeah. Oh, God. Go on. Okay, so I think vitamin D. The skin makes vitamin D, specifically from uvb rays and every kind of glass. So even the conservatory glass and the car glass block uvb. The glass in the car and the conservatory do allow uva, but the guy was right in the fact that the windscreen's laminated, so that does block uva, but the side glass even lets uva in. So you can't make. You can't make the vitamin D in the conservatory or the car because the uvb is blocked, but you can get uva. So shams was wrong, but not wrong, if you see what I mean. We can allow him to retain a little bit of dignity. A little bit. All right. Blimey. You're a hard task mistress. What are your qualifications? Clever clogs. I work for a window film company in Sutton called Auto Shades and we fit the film on cars and buildings. I like it there. I hope you get a little bonus. I hope you get home early. I get. You get home early today, Louise, for slipping in that little advert there. And you get this as well. How about that? You see? Very strong. Chris is in pearly. Chris. Question or answer? It's an answer. Another steward's inquiry. What is it? Laying the law down. Go on, which one? It's the water down the plug hole. Right. I've just done a test in my basin. That the plug hole's in the center of the basin. Yes. As you'd expect, there's a tap on the left. A tap on the right. The left tap on the water goes down anti clockwise. Right tap on it goes down clockwise. And I'll just put a video up on your Facebook page to demonstrate that. Well, the LBC Facebook page or my one, the LBC you are employee of the month. If this was McDonald's, mate, you'd have just got your fifth star on your name back. I was at once. I did get my fifth star on McDonald's. Give her a round of applause. Hand on heart, Chris. We're pulling one out of the fire, aren't we? We're pulling this. It didn't start well, but we're pulling it out the fire now. You're turning it around. We're turning it around. Thanks. It's teamwork, you see. Thanks to people like you, Chris Morris is in Oxford Street. Morris. Question or answer? Question, please. Yes, James. I want to know where the phrase boss, your uncle comes from. We got a lot of classics. This is like the greatest hits of mystery out this week, isn't it? Isn't it, Robert? Robert Peel. I don't know. That's what. No, good point. All right. Well, it's the only phrase we've got. It's the only origins of phrase, because we're only allowed one a week. The origins of the phrase Bob's your uncle again. I think it's on the archive. We're gonna have to start raising the. Raising the parapet. Raising the bar a bit higher on this. 1245 is the time. Origins of the phrase Bob's your uncle. Difference between a pond and a lake. World War. What makes a war a world war? What's the qualification to become a world war? And one hit wonder. Has there ever been. I said the floral dance. That's it. Told you it had flowers in the title. Terry Wogan had a hit called the Floral Dance. I don't know whether he tried to have any others. All your other suggestions, like St Winifred school choir and stuff. I bet they put an album out, though. Just one single. A 45 with a b side. And then no subsequent releases, despite the fact that the original release did very well. That would be the answer to the question that Ella was asking. The time now is 1245 is the time, apparently. You know, he sometimes waves at me through the glass of the studio. Apparently. Ali Jones recorded a track with Terry Wogan, a charity song, so we can't even chalk up the late sotel as a one hit wonder. Ellen needs to know whether such a thing has ever existed. An actor that deliberately set out to have only one hit. We can all think of one hit wonders that we're hoping to have a few more, but just that one. Also looking to know what makes a world war a world war. The difference between a pond and a lake and the origin of a phrase. Bob's your uncle. You should really be able to get those. Nico is in Battersea. Nico, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question. Yes. Which is. I was just wondering, is the diameter of your index finger directly proportional to the aperture of your nostrils and ear canals? What? Why? What? Why? Why do you want to know this? Well, it's something I've been really wondering for years. Is it a coincidence that your fingers fit so snugly into your nose, is what you're really asking? Basically, yeah. Because if it didn't, how would you excavate? Yeah, that's it. Which everyone needs at some point. So I was just wondering if you can't do that, if you've got, like, fingers the size of big sausages, what, you know, what are you gonna do? Well, hang on, you haven't been using your other fingers. They all feel like they fit. Go on, put the phone down and put. Put your swearing finger and your ring finger up your nose as well. Go on. But, you know, have you done it? Yeah. Have you done it yet? Chris is putting videos on the website. Nico, can you just do it with your. Stick your fingers up your nose. Everyone was saying in the office that they're all doing it, but I just want. If you had a really small nostril, like tiny. Will you have tiny fingers as well? No, I don't think this is. What's it genetic? Wipe my fingers now. Turn the cameras off a bit. I don't really want that broadcast, you know, I'm a serious broadcaster now. Is it genetic? So the question is, is your industry? No. Well, the answer is no, because all the fingers, if you put them out, your nose feel quite snug. They all feel like they fit. There's no for you. I just wonder if there's anyone out there that, you know, doesn't it? Is there, you're asking, is there a biological or evolutionary relationship between the amateur of your nostril aperture and your in and your index for the circumference of your index finger? Yes, in a nutshell. Well, I think the answer is no. I'd like to kind of put it out there to more, if your listeners can shed any more light on it. Do you pick your nose a lot? No, not at all. Okay. Where did the question come from? It came from when I saw a guy on a train who, I think he was a farmer or something, but he had really, really big fingers. But then he kind of had quite a small nose in proportion to that. I didn't know if that was, you know. How could you tell he was a farmer? Um, it's just farmers generally have big fingers, I think. I don't know why, but it was nothing to do what he was wearing. He wasn't chewing on a piece of straw or looking at pictures of tractors. It was the size of his fingers that made you think he must be a farmer. Yeah, I. Yeah. And he had particularly had notably small nostrils as well. He did. Okay, I tell you what, we've definitely rescued it this week, Nico, and you played. You've played a very important part in that process. Is there any relationship between your finger diameter and your nostril size? Zero, three, four? If there is, I shall give you the money myself. Robert's in Ealing. Robert, question or answer? I believe it's a response rather than answer. World wars. A little known fact is the United States always say world war two begun at Pearl harbor, but that's only because Germany declared war on the US later that day. So whether the belligerent parties are separated by a large expanse of water or a continent, I don't know. But that's one thing they advocate, is World War Two begun at Pearl harbor, and we stipulate it occurred much earlier. So it's not going to. You know, it's not going to butter any parsnips, though, because you just end up debating the size of the body of water. Because any war that Britain is involved in has involved the crossing of a body of water, hasn't it? I know. Apart from the kind of scottish, english water, James, we're certainly not a ponderer lake anyhow. No, I like it. But I think you. I think we both know that you're not going to get a round of applause for that. Robert. Not even from you, James. Not even from me. Robert, I'm feeling very tough today. I'm feeling very, very parsimonious with my rounds of applause. How unusual. Carry on. It can't be anything to do with water, can it? Can it? Matt's in Westminster. Matt, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Come on, then. I hope. Come on, then. The one hit wonder. In 1988, there was a group called a tribe of toffs who had a hit with John Ketley as a weatherman. I knew the group at the time. I mean, I wasn't close friends with them, but I knew them. And it was literally just a big laugh. And they didn't really say, because surely when they do well and they get offered gigs, they've got to get some other songs in their repertoire. Yeah. Well, to my knowledge, they only released the single with a b side and there was never anything else afterwards. John Ketley is a weatherman. Yeah. Tribe of toffs. Yeah. It's a strong, strong play, that, Matt. Were they session musicians or committee? What were they? They were just a bunch of students between school and university. So it was basically sort of a summer holiday, you know, let's write a silly song and see if we can get on the telly. And they did. Right place, right time, the planets aligned and lo and behold, they ended up on top of the pops. Yeah. Tribe of truck. I mean, I can't disprove it. I just find. To link. To link to your. To your guest. I think they even appeared on Wogan as well. But they must have done. I mean, I think I even remember. It was a big hit, wasn't it? Yeah. Yeah. And so is Michael Fish or something like that. That's it. And so is Wincy Willie. Yeah. Right. It's a choice. Are we sure that they've only. How are we going to establish that they've only. I don't. I don't. I don't know. Yeah, go on, give him a round of applause. Well played. There's room. There's room for a challenge on that, but I don't want that to be Stacey's in the city. Stacy, question or answer? Hi. It's an answer. Yeah, go on. It's a ponds and lakes. I kind of feel guilty for giving this answer because I don't feel like I really owned it. I heard it on mystery a while ago. A long while ago. Yeah, go on. That's all right. Okay, so a pond can sustain life anywhere in it, but a lake can't. So there's areas of a lake that nothing can live. It's uninhabitable. Maybe it's too dark or maybe it's. No, it's true. I mean, you think people have ponds in their garden? They don't have lakes in their garden. No, no fish in those ponds. Yeah. And they die. And anywhere in that. I don't know. It depends how you look after them. It does, but I'm not. I can't be that. I mean, the pond. How do you know whether a pond is a lake? You've got to put in loads of life in it in lots of different places. And if any of it dies, it's a pond. A lake. And if any, measure it. How? You just take an aquarium, for instance. I've got a problem, mate. Tribe of toffs. According to this message did actually try to release more serious songs, but they were unable to get a recording contract. And then they released another single in 1989 called Terry Wogan's on tv again. So the tribe of toffs weren't one hit wonders. They wanted more. Okay, anyway, back to the pond. Stay there, Stacey. Paul's in Bromley. Paul, what have you got again? Listen, it's mystery hour and the pond is man made and a lake is natural. I prefer that, Stace. Yeah, no, that's not true, because Bedfont Lakes, where nearer I live, it's man made. That's just called Bedfond Lakes, geologically speaking. It's a pond. What? It's a lake there. Yeah, but only because it's been. It is actually in terms of bedfront ponds, though. No, but that was a decision taken by a human being. In terms of the topography and the geography. It's actually a lake, so technically it's a pond, but they've called it a lake. Is that right, Paul? That sounds about right, James, yeah. Thank you, Paul. See, Stacey? Two against one. Pardon? It was just disappointment. Fine, I'll try next time. It's not the despair that hurts, is it, Stacey? It's the hope. Yeah, I thought I'd get around to applause. You know, I feel bad now, but this is all we all. This is all for Paul. I think he's right. I don't know, it might have something to do with draining into it as well. As well. It's been a disastrous mystery out of this, but it's been diverting, which is actually the main thing. Zero. 345-606-0973 is that we got anything left? Is that. It? Is the cupboard bear. We just ruined everything. John's in Hudderston. Go on, John, fill up. The last minute can't be any worse than the last 58. Well, it was going to be a challenge, but I don't think it is now because you've just disproved the tribe of toss one. My answer was going to be the mash with the theme from mash, which was a number one hit in 1980. Suicide is painless. Yes, it was. And there's actually. There was no group called the Mash. It was a group of session singers called the Ron Hickman Singers. He's good. Who used to do backing vocals for Gary Lewis and the Playboys, but a guy called Ron Hickman, he got this group together, recorded the theme from Mash, and then they went off and did their own separate things after that. I have another round of applause. Nicely played. Thank you very much. That's it for this week. Gary and Romford's about to tell us the origin of the phrase Bob's your uncle. But we're out of time, so we'll have to wait. Sorry about that, Gary. That's it from me for another day. You have been listening to a remarkably mixed show here on LBC. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear, however, belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you. Friend of the stars. Friend of the stars. They'll e ring anytime.