Why no seatbelts on trains?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. And goodness for me, I need it this way. I was 2 hours digging into the dark and murky depths of anti immigration rhetoric and the impacts it has upon people, upon families, upon good people. Remember, making money out of it are the real problem here. Not the ones, not the marks, not the victims. But we can park all of that. We can park politics, we can park interest rates, we can park the economy, we can park the bus and focus instead entirely upon our weekly adventures into the unknown. Two things to point out. Number one, you're not allowed to look anything up. It's the only rule. If you hear someone else ask a question, don't look it up. This is a celebration of knowledge, information. Getting a bit worried about celebrity mastermind as well. So to be honest, it's partly revision for me. This. Not that much ever gets filed under general knowledge. And the other thing I need to tell you is this. The prize the mystery hour ballgame. Christmas is almost upon us, actually. So the mystery hour ballgame is about to start charging back up the board game charts. What better way to show how much you love your family than by giving them a mystery hour ballgame, which you can buy from Mysteryhour dot co dot UK or all the usual places. But I give one away every week to my favorite contributor. And it could be someone asking a question or someone answering a question. Even perhaps someone mounting a stewards inquiry into a question or answer that has already gone before. So there we are. Mysteryout dot co dot UK to get your own or chance your arm on zero. 345-606-0973 in the hope of winning one. The full terms and conditions can be found at LBc dot co dot UK. It's nine minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Let mystery hour comments Billy's in Livingston. Billy, question or answer? Question? James, carry on. So you wear a seatbelt on a plane, you wear a seatbelt in a car? You do. You wear a seatbelt on the dodgems and the fun fair. Why don't you have to. Why don't you wear a seatbelt on a train? Yeah, I mean, I think it's just cost and, and how often there are accidents, just a sort of cost benefit ratio. But I'm not. I mean, I like it. It's a good question. My daughter says it's because it's on a fixed tract. Whether that's true or not, I don't know. Well, partly. I mean, the reason why there will be much fewer accidents than there would be on a road is because it's on a fixed track. I don't. I mean, between you and me, I suppose seatbelts on planes, if there's turbulence and stuff like that. But there's some pretty grim theories that we've examined in the past on the usefulness of seatbelts on planes. But if you. If we confine ourselves to road versus rail, the much, much, much lower incidence of accidents, the fact that you hardly ever have circumstances where the driver's going to slam the brakes on and we're all going to lurch forward like we do in the car sometimes when you're very grateful for your seat belt. So it's probably that. But your daughter deserves more. She needs a definitive answer, Billy. Clearly. Absolutely. And we shall endeavor to get her one. So it'd be someone who works in train. Train building. Train engineering, or sort of health and safety, or whatever it may be. Thank you, Billy. Chris is in Dartford. Chris, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. How you doing? I'm all right, mate. What's. What's going on? Question. What? Yeah, not a lot. Just got a biscuit and a cup of tea. Thank you very much. What sort of biscuit? I had a shorty. An old fashioned shorty biscuit. Very tasty. The round one with the kind of ribbed edges. Yes, that's. And the dots in there. And the dots in the middle. Yes. Good for dunk. Nice dunking. Nice dunk of that. It is. It is, yes. Carry on. Okay. Sorry, a question I was debating with my mum last night. She was born in the sixties and she can't remember if she was christened when she was younger. Now, she got on the phone to her mum, who's still alive, she can't remember, and neither can any of her siblings remember if they were christened. So my question is, how can you find out if you were christened? Because she would have moved many times from where she grew up. How can you find out if you've ever been christened? That's a good question. I mean, you can find your birth certificate, can't you? Yeah. It's not on there, though. You can find your adoption certificate, which I've had to do recently, or you've got births, deaths and marriages, but not Chris. Now, you can find. You'd need to know the church that she. Which is almost impossible, especially if you're young and you. You've moved, like, I don't know, six, seven times and you're not even in the same town anymore. I think. I think you're on a hiding to nothing here. Oh, really? Okay. I don't think there would be a central register of Christenings, but that's the question. Is there a central register of Christenings and baptisms? Her philosophy has always been that we were to get Chris christened, so it was easier to get married. But they've all got married, my mum and her family, her siblings, but they weren't Christian. Well, how would you know? Because you don't have to prove your Christian, do you? I don't think. Not really, no. There might be some weird, obscure area in which you do. I mean, I think there's one office of state you're not allowed to hold if you're a Catholic. I think it might be Lord Chancellor. It might be Lord Chancellor. Or they might have fixed that since I was a kid, but I'm pretty sure we got taught that at school, so that's like a reverse prove. I mean, if she's really keen, she can get christened again. There's no penalty for doing it twice. Oh, of course, yeah, yeah, yeah. But I shall fight with. So is there a central register of christenings in this country? Yes. Thank you. There it is. Thank you. For Chris's mum. Let's find out. And enjoy your biscuit. 1230. Oh, he already has. 1213 is the time. Ben's in Chippewam. Ben, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So it's about fizzy drinks in particular, I've noticed, with Diet coke or, you know, really fizzy drinks. If you put them into an empty glass, it might fizz up a bit. Yeah, but if you have ice in it, if you start with a glass with ice, it will fizz up a ridiculous amount. Like, you've got to be really careful about how quickly you pour it, otherwise it'll start fizzing over and I can't figure out why that is. Surface area. Surface area, yeah. Well, I'm just thinking logically here, but what is the difference between a glass with ice in it and a glass without ice in it? You're thinking temperature. Yeah, but if you took your glass out of the freezer. I love doing that. Do you ever do that? Yeah. Oh, is there nothing better, is there, than. I'd learnt this. I learned it. It's not exactly an important lesson. But in Greece, a mate of mine's dad used to keep tankards in the freezer, and we'd sit on the balcony and he'd bring out a couple of beers and a couple of frozen tankards. Oh, my. There is no finer beer in the world that a beer watching the athenian sunset in a frozen. Anyway, I digress. The frozen glass probably would not fizz up more than the unfrozen glass, would it? No. Now, that leads me. That leads me to conclude that it is not the temperature that is contributing to the extra effervescence, the excess of effervescence bent. It is something else. So that leads me to ask, what is the key difference between the glass with the ice in it and the glass without the ice in it? And the answer, the only answer to that question, Ben, would be surface area. Yeah, but I've noticed. Counteract that. I've noticed if you use vodka. Yes. So if you have vodka out of the freezer, which is obviously cold, and as it's fizzing up, you actually add vodka to it. It completely cancels it out because you have a lower concentration of carbon dioxide in the liquid that is meeting the surface area. Okay, I can see that Professor Hal is runging, so I'm probably going to stop now trying to answer this question in a deeply scientific fashion, because Professor Hal will no doubt come galloping to the rescue. But I bet it's got something to do with the drink meeting a surface area and that is what releases the gas. No, don't sound convinced. No, not really, no. I think it's a waste of good vodka, by the way, putting it in with coke. Vodka and coke? Yeah. Yeah. I'm never entirely sure about that, but, you know, horses for courses. Thank you, Ben. You're on the list. Fizzy drinks and effervescence. Great word, that, isn't it? Do you not love that word, effervescence? It's quite an effervescent radio program, this. I like to think, on a good day. On a good day. 1216, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1219 is the time. Mystery. Ah. Seatbelts on a train. And more people are actually interested in buses. I hope Billy's daughter doesn't mind. Buses are more of a mystery. I think. I think we've done that before. But you know me, I'm 50 now. Can't remember anything. Can't remember what I had for breakfast. Christening. Is there a national register of christenings? And why do fizzy drinks fismore when there is ice in the glass. Jim's in Dorchester. Jim, question or answer? Question, please carry on. I've just finished jury service at the Crown court in Bournemouth. Have you and? Yeah, really interesting experience. You're not allowed to tell me. I'd love to know more, but I'm not allowed to ask you. There's all sorts of rules surrounding it is. I mean. But all of these cases at the end of the day are just family tragedies, so it's never great anyway. But the question is, why are there twelve people on a jury? It felt a bit biblical and it can't be. It can't go back that far. But what, you mean because of the. How many apostles were there actually here? I'm exhibiting my ignorance. So am I. Now, I went to, if you include Jesus, it was 13. But there were twelve of Judas, there were 13. So. No, it's not that. Or is it? Maybe it's that. Listen, I know it goes back to William the conqueror. I know it kicked off in about 1066, trial by jury. Prior to that, I think the local duke or the local earl got to decide who was guilty and who was innocent. But why twelve? I do not know. So I shall ask. Why are there twelve jurors? You'd think it'd be an odd number, wouldn't you, so that you could always have a result. Well, I guess that's why the judge then says it could be a majority or unanimous. Six. All score draw. In some ways he determines it. No, you're on. Why twelve? It's an interesting number. Was it settled upon arbitrarily? Does it have any biblical reference? Oh, it's not impossible. Stranger things have happened. I like that, Jim. And I'm going to cut. I'm going to move on only because otherwise my curiosity will get the better of me and I'll start asking inappropriate questions about. I don't know why I find it so fascinating. The one time I actually sat in a courtroom, I was on a school trip because I thought I might want to be a lawyer when I grow up. And what we always did at my school when we got out of school for a time, is find a pub that would serve as underage alcohol. So we drank two pints of cider in about 10 seconds flat before we had to get back to the courtroom. And I fell asleep in the public gallery and I was removed by the sergeant at arms from the court because the judge noted not a happy moment. Professor Hal is here. Professor Hal, how are you? Hello, James. I'm very well, thank you. In a while. Have you been busy doing your tv stuff, have you? Academic stuff? Well, actually, no. I've been quite busy lecturing to the Sosabosky brigade in Poland, which is fantastic. Very, very sweet about the general. Yes. And then I went straight from Krakow at the Sosabosky brigade to Scotland, where the brigade was formed and where it worked, which is also very delightful. And they just opened up a General Sosabosky way, an eleven mile route on the coast which joins up his bases. Whereabouts? Fife. The first of Fife, near Laven. I'll show it on. How long is it? How long is the road? How long is the road? It's 11 miles. So. Near Anstruther. Near Anstruther or. I don't know, buddy. There's leven Largo, all those places on. It's just such a lovely view. And we went and opened it up and it was delightful. Lovely architecture in Edinburgh as well. Preaching to the converted on that. Well, that must have been lovely for you. It was delightful. Although it was a real challenge going to the Sosaboski brigade. Didn't want them thinking I was a young whippersnapper stepping in my great grandfather's boots. But these are not. I mean, I don't quite follow. Is it? They're not still around? None of your great grandfather's comrades are still around. So what is the Sosipowski Brigade these days, then? The 6th Airborne Brigade, which is the current parachute brigade. It's called the 6th Airborne Brigade in the name of Sosovovsky. It's still named after your great granddad. Yes. Everywhere you look, there's statues that are saluted as you walk by. There's pictures. They had a lovely parade and I was just quite anxious. They thought, oh, there's some speccy professor coming here. And you are. You are a speccy professor, but you're also the general's great grandson, so I don't know what you're worried about. You can be both, you know. Anyway, Specky professor and great grandson of military legend. Well, the lecture was delightful, actually. Oh, sensational. I'd like to see it one day. I really would. Okay, we'll arrange that. Let me know. Anyway, where were we? Let's talk about some science. Pouring soda onto ice. Yes, this is a version of the Coca Cola Mentos experiment. What happens is the ice has got lots of corners and rough edges. And what that does is provide nucleation sites for the dissolved carbon dioxide to come out of solution. It just drops out of solution. Whereas in a clean glass. There are no rough edges. And there's lots of ways you can demonstrate this. And particularly if you're looking absent mindedly at a champagne glass, you might notice that the bubbles always seem to come from the same place on the glass. Even if you drink it and then refill it, it comes from the same place. There's a little scratch on that glass. You can't be. Which causes the nucleation. And even when you put soda in your mouth and it gets all pleasant and sparkling, it's because your taste buds are forming rough edges for the nucleation. So less to do with surface area and temperature, more to do with lots and lots of rough edges, kind of to do with surface area. The more surface area you've got, the more rough edges you'll have. Correlation is not causation, as you said, several times. So it's. Yeah, all right then. So. But anyway, it wasn't temperature. Well, yeah, temperature. No, it's not temperature. So I'll have that. I'll take that as a win. Okay. And in fact, it is just along the road from Anstruther, as I pronounce it. I think locals pronounce it ainster. It's just up the way from. From Ainster. I know, exactly. It's a truly beautiful part of Scotland. Absolutely breathtaking. It is. And, yeah, nice deflection. And yes, round of applause. Hang on, what are your qualifications, speccy professor boy, I am the speccy professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and delighted to be contributing mystery hour from time to time. You're a true Renaissance man, hopping effortlessly from military history, from genealogy, of course. In your case, the military history and the genealogy go hand in hand. So there you go to the public understanding of science and I think confidently the record holder for the biggest number of mystery hour rounds of applause. An unassailable position. I would argue 26 after twelve is the time. Alexandra is in Romford. Alexandra, question or answer? I have an answer. Carry on. There is no central register for christenings, so if somebody would like to inquire whether they were baptized, they'd unfortunately have to go back to local churches and ask to go through the registers. Some churches will charge a ten pound fee for going through the archives. I wouldn't do that. So, yeah. A clue there to your qualifications? Yes, I am a priest and so we work out where mum was born and then the further you go back, actually, the older mum is, I think she was 60. The more likely it is that if they were christened it would have been in a nearby church, because then just. You'd have to go through all of those records, find the relevant year estimate. What's the average age? Three, four months about usually before their first birthday. But that's change now as well. And is it digitized in your church? Sorry? Is it digitized in your church? No, it's not digitized. It's all written by hand, the registers. Holy moly. I would say as well that theologically you can't be baptized more than once. Practically, if somebody was unsure that they had been baptized, certainly in the Church of England, we would do something called a conditional baptism. Right you are, just in case. I like that. Round of applause for Alexandra. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. I suppose God knows either way whether you've been christened or baptized or not, and that's all that really matters. 28 minutes after twelve time, Alistair is in Cobham. Alistair, question or answer a question, please. James, carry on. Okay. I was over in Dublin a few weeks ago, and there's lots and lots of gift shops down the. Down the oconaway street. And every time you go in there, you see, luckily, irish souvenirs. Yes, you do. Why are the Irish so lucky? It's not about it. I mean, it's a very good question, frankly, particularly given the history of their relations with Great Britain. Absolutely. Yeah. I know the answer to this, believe it or not, because I am obviously irish and soon to be even more irish than I am now, the answer is actually America and gold mining. The Irish were particularly adept in the gold rush at finding gold. And therefore the luck of the Irish became an american kind of meme, and it then made its way back over the atlantic to Ireland itself. And therefore the luck of the Irish does have a resonance. It's a thing. Excellent. There it is. Yeah, I'll take that. Ask me what my qualifications are. What are your qualifications? I fully expect to be irish by the end of this week, next week at the very latest. Excellent, excellent. Thank you very much. Round of applause for me. That's grand. Grand answer, that. Thank you, Alice there. So we still need to know about the jurors. We've done the fizzy drinks, we've done the christenings and the seat belts on trains and buses. It is just coming out to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Lots of booze related information coming into the studio. Guinness glasses apparently do not have imperfections. Specially tooled Guinness glass will not have imperfections on it because as it won't fizz. It doesn't fizz. You have a different head on a Guinness, don't you, from what you have on a lager or an ale. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1233. So why are there no seat belts on trains, brackets or buses? Closed brackets. Why? Why is that? Especially the buses. I know that wasn't Billy's daughter's question. The more I think about it, the more interesting that is. Why do we have twelve jurors? What's the origin of the number twelve in the context of juries? I'm pretty confident that the practice goes back to William the conqueror in this country. It's different in Scotland, of course. I think you get 15 jurors in Scotland, which does away with the possibility of a hung jury, doesn't it? Or at least minimizes the possibility of a hung jury. I've done the luck of the Irish. So they're the only two, I think, aren't they? Seat belts and twelve jurors. Which means there's room for some more questions. It's only half time zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the fun continues. So those are the two that need answers. And I need. I'd like some more questions as well. James is in Leicester. James, question or answer? It's a question, mister. James. Ob. Carry on, mate. Why does paying ease to the torch? When we bang something, the instant reaction is to put our hand on it, lessen the pain. Example, I picked my dog up recently to carry down the stairs. She's a little bit old and as I stood up, I banged my sort of hip. Not my hip, my lower back, on the windowsill. But I'm carrying the dog down the stairs, so I can't put it down. All I want to do is put it down and get my hand on it. And when I do get to the bottom and put my hand on it, the pain just instantly seems to over ease or go away temporarily. It comes back when you take your hand off. Well, a little bang like that, you put your hand on and it seems a lot better. Yeah. You see the footballers rolling around, holding their knees. You just instantly want to put a handle it. Don't worry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, I'm trying to think if there's an obvious answer to do with, like, blood flow or something. Warmth. Warmth. The only thing I can think is heat from the hand, that's all I can think of. Sometimes it. It's just reassurance. I don't know, sometimes it may be just reassurance, I don't know. That's just this question I've got. James, you're on. Why does, why do you have an anesthet? Why does the touch, the human touch, have an anesthetic effect after. After an unpleasant. You're on. Are you all right now? Just a mild little twinge, yeah. No, you know, as soon as I touched it, the pain was gone. How old are you, if you don't mind me asking? I am 32. Oh, you're all right for the moment because you see, not long now, mate, that there'll be a point that you'll reach this weird point in life where every time something hurts, you find yourself wondering whether that's going to be one of the permanent ones. Can I just say, james as well? I've read your book, mate, and I thought, I've read your first book only so far. It was a really good book. I've never read a book so quick. I didn't want to put it down. I've never written one so fast either. Thank you. That's a lovely thing to say, James. And we have had echoes of it today as well, actually. How to be right in a world gone wrong was where Ray told us the story of what happened when he put his laptop away. A couple of things have popped up today that have brought that book back into my mind. And there is James. Thank you. I love that it's 1236. John's in Falmouth. So pain and hands for James. John. Question or answer? Is the question please, James? Yes. Okay. You may remember in primary school, during assemblies, in the morning, whoever was hosting the assembly would say, good morning, children. And the children respond by saying, good morning, mister O'Brien, in this weird kind of melody. And I'm wondering why they do that. Where did that come from? Why do people across the country in primary schools sing good morning back like that? I think that it is the nature of speaking in concert, isn't it? Because otherwise it would be disparate. It's a way, it introduces a rhythm, which means that everyone is speaking in unison, whereas if they, if they all did it separately, they'd all be starting at a slightly different point. So do you see what I mean? So it becomes unified. But why that particular haunting melody? Because it's easy. I mean, what would you, what do you want them? Do you want to do it to green sleeves? Or something like that. I mean, it's an up and down, isn't it? Yeah, I guess so. If everyone did it. Let's do it now. Okay. We'll say, good morning, Mister Keith, but we won't do it in a sing song way. All right. On 3123. Good morning, Mister Keith. Good morning, Mister Keith. See, that's an absolute mess, isn't it? I'd finished and you hadn't even started, so. Whereas if we do it in, let's do it now, let's do it in a sing song way. Ready? One, two, three. Good morning, Mister Keith. And there we are, bang on. Absolutely perfect synchrony. Thank you very much. Synchronicity, that's the answer. Synchronicity. Okay, round of applause. I know he's not pleased, but I don't care. That's because I'm a maverick. Thank you, John. And we can add to that if you want. The headmasters greeting. Good morning. Matt's in Middlesbrough. Matt, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. I'm just curious as to why we don't sneeze when we're asleep. I'm quite an allergenic type of chap, so when I wake up in the mornings, probably something to do with the dust. You do a lot of sneezing? Sneezing away. But never once have I startled myself awake in the middle of the night by sneezing. So I've. It's a bit odd. It is a bit odd trying to think again. What, what would the reason be? No, you're on. Yeah. We never said why. Because there's all the things that would make you sneeze. They'd be in the, the pollen or whatever it was, or the dust particles would make you sneeze where they were around when you're. Is it because you don't breathe in through your nose as much? Oh, well, I think the, the snoring that I do, the wife would probably. So there's plenty of nose action. There's plenty of nose action going on then. So it's not that being asleep and, you know, mid dream and all of a sudden you wake yourself up with a horrendous sneeze. Everything that we're more relaxed maybe. I don't, I mean relaxed sort of. When you don't cough in your sleep either, do you? It's not just sneezing. There's lots of things you don't do in your sleep that you do. I think the coughing thing. I think my wife does cough in a sleep. Oh, does she really? All right. Why don't we sneeze in our sleep? I should do my best to get you an answer to that, Matt. I like it. Thank you. Thank you. So sneezing in your sleep. Good morning, Mister James. Pain when you push something. When you touch. So you've hurt yourself and you grab it and it hurts. Bit less seatbelts on trains and buses and twelve jurors. Gina's in Exeter. Gina, question or answer? I have an answer for you. Carry on. You wanted to know why twelve members actually did. I did indeed. Okay, well, I think I can help you. It comes back from the crusader era. The Knights Templar picked it up over from the Middle in Middle east. And that derives from Sharia, which means twelve member jury. It's called islamic lafis. And lafis translates body of twelve. And that in turn comes from the pre islamic practice of Bedouin consensus within a tribe. So in the desert they would have a consensus before electing, let's say, a leader or a warrior or a commander. And they had to have the wise men sit down and they had to have at least twelve. I've got a problem with this. Well, I do have sources for you, so that's okay. I will. Crikey. All right. Maybe I should think twice. Islamic origins of common law. No, I've got no problem with that. I don't. It's the crusades that I'm questioning, because that would be very, very late 11th century, wouldn't it? You're talking about the 1090s. Right. But pre, I'm not in law, my specialty is in the arab and islamic world, so I can't specify law, but the body of our peers. I'm not sure if that specifies the number of a jury. Right. So I'm talking about the. I'm talking about the formulation. No, I understand. And I think I'm nitpicking because, I mean, I know that it came in while William the Conqueror was still on the throne. So that is 30 years earlier than the sort of crusades are. So it may well have come from the Middle east, but not via the crusades. Well, when did we formulate twelve? I don't know that. So I can answer twelve. You can unless. But don't tell the Daily Mail that trial by jury has islamic roots because they will be campaigning to abolish it by tea time. Well, but that means that they would have to also sort of abolish numbers in the binary. Well, you know, give them a chance, give them an inch, they'll take. What about that? I mean, are we sure it has nothing to do with Danelaw? Danelaw popped up a bit in my. Well, you're asking. Are you asking about twelve? Yes, twelve. Not jewelry, twelve. Well, if we're going to go twelve, you want the islamic. The Arabic, the thief. Okay. And that body of twelve, you're on. No, around. Qualifications. I'll tell you what, I will tweet the source for you. But what are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? I have a PhD in arab and islamic studies. There you go, beautifully done. And a round of applause to go alongside it. Thank you, Gina. Very nicely done. Keep it, everybody. Keep that under your hat, all right? Don't let them know that the trial by jury has islamic roots because it'll be that mean. Greg, could you imagine what will happen? 1243 is the time. John's in Nottingham on question or answer? Hello, James, I've got a question. Hello, John. In multi cat households, do the cats talk to one another? James? Well, I mean, they don't talk. Do you mean communicate? Yeah. Obviously it's not verbal, but if you're out of the house and one asks the other, well, when are they coming back to feed us? You know, is any of this going on? Because we just had a visitor in our house recently of. Of the feline variety and he seems to be settling in really well. But I can just imagine him, he doesn't know how we tick. And you must be asking the other cat what happens around here then? How does it work? And all these sorts of conversations. We've got three different ages. We've got a new kitten. She's lovely, actually. I don't know, I'm just thinking. I mean, they'd seem to communicate, but I. I think they do. Do you? Well, yeah, but you're being a bit anthropomorphic, aren't you? If you don't mind me saying so, a little bit of anthropomorphism goes a long way. I just thought I'd throw it out there. Yeah, I know that you've got a doctor dog. I don't know whether you've got a doctor cat on the end of the line somewhere. We shall find out. We shall. Do cats communicate with each other? I mean. I mean, they must have some forms of communication. I'd have thought so, yeah. All right, you're on. Yeah. Cats. Cats and communication. Thank you, John. Lovely stuff. 1245 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We've got cats sneezing classes, talking to teachers, pain and hands and seatbelts on trains and buses. We've got a lot of work to do if we're going to cross them all off. I just put my teeth in and try again. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 49 is the time. Apologies for a brief break from mystery hour. Just for a couple more words on the bank of England's activities this afternoon. You'll be aware of that raise in the base rate from 2.25% to 3%. Obviously very bad news for anybody on a variable rate mortgage or seeking to renegotiate a fixed one. But they did go further. They believe that the UK is already in recession and that it's likely to be the longest ever. So that would be from the middle of this year all the way through to the middle of 2024, at which point they expect growth to pick up only to an anemic rate, a very slim rate, about three quarters of a percent. Robert Peston, who was, of course, an economics correspondent before he was a political correspondent, suggests that Jeremy Hunt's statement, autumn statement on the 17 November is likely to make things worse, given that it is widely expected to be contractionary. And he reminds us that we were supposed to be getting some sort of post COVID bounce, but all sorts of warnings coming in from the bank of England, not just the one about the recession, but the doubling of unemployment moving forward as well. So, you know, there are massive issues at play here, right across the world. It would be very silly to try and draw this back to one single influence or one single factor. But it will always be true. However much people may desperately hope and pray that it isn't true, it will always be true that imposing economic sanctions on yourself, whether as the result of having a blemanche in government or of having a stupid referendum, imposing economic sanctions upon your own country will always be a very stupid thing to do. And the worse things get economically, the stupider the decision to impose economic sanctions upon your own country will become. But we're still at least one, possibly two more conservative leaders away from any of them being prepared to admit that publicly and they remain in charge. 1251 is the time. Shlomi is in Manchester. Shlomi. Question or answer? Answer to the pain. Question. Oh, yes. So it doesn't actually take the pain away. You're just applying pressure to the area which gives you proprioceptive feedback, which is a very nice feeling and that makes you feel better about it. Why? Because it's just a nice feeling to the same area. But it's only a nice feeling when you're in pain. It's not a nice feeling when you're not in pain. No, it's a nice feeling when you're not in pain as well. Categorically. I'm doing it now, sir. I am literally applying pressure to my solar plexus area and I'm not getting any pleasure out of it at all? No. Well, yeah, because you don't need that input. But like babies or people that suffer with their sensory systems do crave lots of input. So, yeah, we cuddle babies up and people like that suffering. Proprioceptive. Proprioceptive. Okay. And so it's almost as if you've got a bad feeling and a good feeling in tandem and therefore it feels less bad than it would have done if you didn't have the good feelings going along with it. But in an objective, you could measure pain. The level of pain would be the same with or without the pressure being applied. Yes. So pain is not an actual thing. Pain. Something in your head. So they're both in your head. Sound like my old PE teacher. You sound like my old PE teacher. But it's true. It can't be true. Nothing's actually happening to that part of your body. It's the sensor that your brain is receiving that gives you the pain, which is an evolutionary protection against carrying on doing things that are going to hurt you even more. Correct. All right. Qualifications? I like this. Good answer. I'm a final year occupational therapy student. Congratulations. Have a round of applause. Thank you. If you fail all your exams, this will be a great consolation to you, Shlomi. Hope not to. No, of course you won't, mate. Of course you won't. Turn your radio off. Go and do some work. 1253 is the time. Daniel's in Bournemouth. Daniel, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So on. Really old doors say if you think. If you're going up to a clock tower and you go in like massive wooden door, maybe that's got those metal studs on, like a gothic door. The door, the lock on it. If you think you're putting your key in, it's upside down to how we imagine it. So you've got the round bit is at the bottom and then the narrow bit is at the top. Why? How many doors have you researched to make this sweeping statement about old doors? Yeah, I thought you were going to ask me that. I was going to struggle. The friend of mine repairs a lot of clocks. He goes up a lot of old clock downs. He's literally his job. And he takes photos of them. Yeah. He's based a friend from Suffolk. When I used to live there, him and his dad used to do it together and I think his dad before that. And he's just got photos of hundreds of old stores where he's gone up to these cocktails and taken bits of them. And he noticed at first, and I went, well, if you don't know the answer and you've seen these, your dad doesn't know the answer, then I don't answer. So someone might do question what we did. And so that is the thing. I mean, it is. It's not. I mean, it is. Multiple doors. Multiple doors appearing to have old fashioned keyholes, as in not Yales or anything like that, but upside down. We wouldn't have been upside down then. We know we're doing them upside down now. Yeah. Why? Are they a different way around? Yeah, I don't know. That's why. Why they're a different way up. And the other one was going to ask when, but obviously they're going to have one question, but I guess they'll try it when they change. No, I like it a lot. They should try for a short time, but we'll try and find out for you, Carrie. Thank you, Daniel. Why are keyholes either upside down or the. Why they are different? Why are old keyholes a different way up from new keyholes? Thank you all. Alex is in Shepherd's Bush. Alex, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on. It's the one about the cats. Adult cats don't communicate by meowing. They only communicate with each other by their body language. But they will definitely be communicating with each other. I fostered loads of cats and they always show the new guy where the food is, where the litter tray is, all that sort of thing. Really? Yes, absolutely, they do. And they actually, cats only learned how to meow back in ancient egyptian times because they realized that humans were a bit of a pushover. And so they tried to mimic the noise that sounded most like a baby because they noticed that that's when the humans came running. Really? Yes. That's what I. That's. I've done lots of research into this. I've been fostering for years. I'm a crazy cat lady. Well, I don't mind. I don't mind that. But really, they. Cats learnt how to meow, to do impressions of human babies. That's what I've read. Okay, you're on. Yeah. Qualifications? Lots of cats. Crazy cat lady. What what? So, yeah, so you did actually take the question out of my mouth, because I was going to say, why do they meow then? And that is solely to do with human interacts. Domesticated. You will very rarely see an adult cat meow to another adult cat. They'll hiss at each other and arch their back, which is body language. That's sending messages, but they're sending them physically. I mean, in many ways, the fact that you've never heard a lion meow proves your point, doesn't it? And I used to work with lions. Yes. I used to volunteer in South Africa. Gosh. Round of applause for Alex. Thank you. Fantastic stuff. I love that. And we shall watch our cats with even more interest than we usually do moving forward. 1257 is the time and Kevin is in Berwick upon tweed. Kevin, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Go on. So you were right, it's about the why you don't need to wear seatbelts on a train. So you were right in saying that statistically, you're much safer on a train than on road transport. But the main reason is the rate of deceleration. In a train, wearing seat belts is to protect you from sudden deceleration and get injured. Yes. Yes, on a train. Yeah, on a train, the deceleration, even under emergency braking, or if it hits an obstacle, the train is so heavy and long that the rate of deceleration is still quite gradual. So even if you were stood on your feet and the driver was to apply the brake in emergency, the likelihood is you could still stay on your feet. There it is. So that answers the question about trains fairly comprehensively. Buses are going to remain on the list, aren't they? Well, coaches. You have to wear seatbelts, don't you? Yeah, but not on a bus. No, but the buses are stopped starting all the time, like in a suburban area, where I suppose you're getting on and off the bus all of the time. Just be silly. And they go at lower speeds, so it would just be silly. So I don't really know the answer is such for buses? No, but it makes sense. It'd be a ride of palaver if you're having to take your safety belt on every couple of minutes as you get on and you get off and you. Qualifications, Kevin. So I was a Eurostar train driver. Oh, fantastic. Round of applause. Yeah. How long for? How long for? I was with Eurostar for 26 years. Retired. I didn't even know it. Been there that long. I still think of it as being quite new. No, no, no. And I started after that. They were already about so fantastic. No, I love that. It's earned you a round of applause. I need to pick a winner. I need to pick a winner. Don't know. Have you got any thoughts, Keith? Any got a favorite? Anyone? Royston, you got a favorite, anyone? No? Nothing. No one. It's just me paying attention again today. Is it just me? Yeah. I think I'd do this for my own entertainment. It's got to be the cat lady, hasn't it? I think. Self described cat lady. I would never use that phrase myself. I don't think so. Was Alex in Shepherd's Bush? I think she's benefiting slightly from freshness of memory. You know, when they do, what are the 100 best albums of all time? And Robbie Williams gets two in the top ten because he's the biggest actor in town. I'm going back a while now, but Alex and Shepherd's Bush. There you go. You get it. Oh, some important business for you. If you have missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on Global Player, where you will also find all of LBC's shows to catch up on, as well as staying up to date with the latest news from LBC. So download global player for free from your App Store or just head to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Swarbrick. But now it's time for Sheila Fogarty.