How redheads are different

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, three minutes after twelve is the time. I did. I did warn you. We were heading towards a crunching gear change. But, mister, the most lighthearted hour of the week that we spent together usually sits in stark contrast to the hefty toll of the last hour. But I remain deeply, deeply grateful to everybody who rang in and indeed to everybody complimenting those contributions. We'll return to this. It's time that we sort of shrugged off some of the political shenanigans and got back to the stuff that we were doing before the country broke. But mystery hour will remain in place throughout your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that is not available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you don't know what it is, you are in for a treat. Although I would warn you, it's very unlike the other 14 hours a week that we spend together. If you've got a mystery, a question, a conundrum that you know has an answer, but you're damned if you can work out what it is. Give me a ring on zero 345-606-0973 and ask it. And similarly, if you hear somebody else asking a question to which you know the answer, then zero 345-606-0973 give me a ring and answer it. My favorite contribution of the week will win a mystery hour board game, which is a beautiful bit of kit, actually. Hours and hours and hours of fun for the entire family. Absolutely guaranteed. And yours in response or in reward for the best contribution of the week. If you want to buy one, of course, for someone you care for deeply, then go to mysteryad dot co dot UK dot. Find out a little bit more about it over there. I think that's it. The full terms and conditions for the competition element of this feature are available at LBC dot co dot UK. And the game itself, as I say, is available at mysteryour dot co dot UK. Let's crack on. Actually, Brad even is in Durham. Brad, question or answer? Well, it'd be strange if I had an answer. It was a question. It would. But not impossible, Brad. Not impossible. True. And place name? James. Yes. So as I become older, I became more interested in why a place is called the place they're called. Yeah. But my particular question references where place names end in H A M. So, for example, Durham, Hexham, walking ham. What is it? What is the ham mean? I like this. Do you know, I think it's come up before and I never know I'd never noted that Durham is a ham because you don't pronounce it that way, do you? I mean, normally it's an, um. So Sydenham, I suppose there's loads in. In Norfolk. I spend a lot of time in Norfolk and there are two possibilities. Qualifications. I'm pretty sure it's come up before and someone cleverer than me knew the answer. So you've got the ham with one m, which is Anglo Saxon for settlement. Right? So that. Yeah, yeah, sort of. Yes, of course it is, yeah. A little settlement, a hamlet. And then you've got, I think. I think amm, which is a. Like a fen or a water meadow. Okay, so that's where the name would come from. So that is the settlement of Durr is Durham. And when it has t un on the ends or Hampton, I don't know. You're not allowed to questions. Luckily I feel a bigger ham. Would it? I don't know. A Hampton. I mean, so that was. That was kind of the crux of question, which I've tried for three weeks to get on and I'll finally on. Was it. What's the difference between a ham and a ham ton? Are you blown it, Brad, you've blown it, mate. You've blown it. After three weeks of trying to get on and you've come on and asked the wrong question. I'll let. Alright, I'll put it on the board. I won't take a round of applause. What's the difference between a ham and a Hampton? Yeah, actually, I like that. It's probably. Well, because I don't know the answer. I prefer it. So you're on. All right. I'm not making new rules. That's an exception that proves the rule. So don't anyone else ask for special treatment. Thank you, Brad. Mind how you go back to Durham. Keith's in Willsden Green. Keith, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Carry on. Keith, why do we never have female juniors? You always have like. Do you know what I mean? You've always got little Jimmy junior or something like that. Little Jimmy Junior. I've got all his albums. There's never been like an army of Tracy juniors running around. No. Or the third and the fourth, you know, it's like Michael J. Fotheringham the fourth. You don't have that either. It's always. Well, I presume it's hereditary, isn't it is because you are the heir to the fortune. Therefore you are the junior to the current holder of the fortune. And a daughter wouldn't be the heir. Yeah, it's got to be something. I was named after my grandfather. I want to throw my hat in the ring for youngest Keith in the country as well. How old are you? 36, I think. You're younger than our Keith, is that. Let me. I'm going to have a quick chat with our keith. Wait there. Keith, is that the youngest we've ever had? Has anyone kept a record? I know he's younger than you, but have we kept a record about. Have we had a younger one before? I don't think we. All right. Keith in Willesden Green is currently the youngest Keith in the country. Is that worth a board game? Well, we'll see, we'll see. I mean, you're in the running, mate. Everyone's in the running so far, but I like that. So, question. Why do you not have. Why? I love it when you see, I don't know if you do this and you notice a company, there's a. Oddly. Back to Norfolk. There's an undertaker on the road that we usually take into Norfolk, that is. And daughter. That's always quite nice to see that, isn't it? When it says, you know, Jones O'Brien and daughter or Keith and daughter, you don't see that very often, but you see it more often than you see. More often than you see a female junior. You know, Doris Junior, you're on. I'll find out, but it's going to have something to do with heirs and wills and inheritances is the word I'm looking for. Keith. Young Keith. Do they call you young Keith or Keith Junior? I just get called Keith. It's a bit embarrassing having a 70 year old's name, to be honest. But at least nobody ever forgets you when they made their name. I was about to say there's only one Keith, but we know that there's at least two Keith in their thirties. Thank you, mate. I like that a lot. Why no female juniors? So I'm James Junior. That's named after my dad and my granddad and my great granddad. You go back far enough, it would have been Seamus, but the anglicized version of Seamus being James. Why is it not named after your mum? Daughters. Dave's in Leytonston. Dave, question or answer? I have a question for you. Please, James. Carry on. Dave, why do I lose weight when I go to bed overnight? I lost. I went to bed last night, weighed myself and when I got up this morning and weighed myself, I've lost three pound. Three pound? Yes. What did you go from and to. Then you're gonna know I'm loud. I went from 1510 to 15 seven. Sorry, I had no right to inquire after the details of your experience. So you, so you lost three pound overnight? Yes. And it's not just a one off thing. I've noticed it for a long time. Well, don't get out of bed, mate. You'll be twelve stone by the weekend. I know that's a good idea. I have thought about that one, but the missus won't give way on that one. Do you forgive my. I've already breached your privacy. But do you sweat a lot? Nope. Nope. Don't get up to nothing. Unfortunately. When I'm in pit. Now you're volunteering? Behave yourself. You're volunteering it now, Dave, I'm not even asking way too much information, so it's not that. And there's no, I mean, you're metabolizing, I suppose. So. Heat. Heat. You do give off heat. So you're metabolizing food while you're asleep. And that would be chemical energy turning into. Chemical energy turning into heat energy. But it does seem like a lot. Three pounds. Are your scales reliable? Absolutely. All right. And it's a regular, it's a regular thing. I mean, I would lose between two to three pound every night and then put it back on again during the day. Absolutely. I'm fascinated now to know about this. It's going to be something close to what I said, I think. But we shall, and we shall find out. Nice one, Dave, mind how you go. It is 1211. Three questions on the board. We've got the ham versus Hampton. We've got the female juniors, and we've got Dave's nocturnal weight loss. James is in Tower Hamlets. James, question or answer? I've got an answer for you. Go on. So it's about the ham and it's an old English. Hang on a minute. Who's producing the program today? I've already answered this one. It's the old english term for a settlement. Ergo, Hamlet would be a little settlement. Yeah. Hamlet means a farm comes from the Saxon. Yes. Whereas village is french and it means, like village. But what's the village? What's the difference? Is the actual question now, because I allowed Brad a supplementary. What's the difference between a ham and a Hampton? Well, Hampton is probably still hemp, which is a, which was a type of flax that was used for clothing in, um. So you think ham, ham and Hampton have nothing to do with each other? No. They've got nothing. It means hemp ton. And a ton is like a plot of land. So it was a plot of south hemp tongue. So the south. So. And we're going back to when we were a naval superpower. Needed a lot of ropes. Which were made of Hampton. Oh, no, no. But Southampton is actually Hamton. They added the p. Later one. It was ham which first. And then it became. I'm a history teacher, and I've had history teachers. They wouldn't have known any. They wouldn't have known any of this. You got a particular interest in place names? Yes, I have. Because I teach some. A level anglo saxon stuff. So it helps to make sense of it. And originally it was Hampton. That's where you get Hampshire. Okay. Yeah. And it's named. And then. Then they. Then when Northampton became part of the english kingdom, they had two hamptons. And then they called one of them Northampton, one of them Southampton, but. But neither of them had anything to do with hemp. No. Well, the Southampton one didn't. Anyway, I'm not sure about the Northampton. So think of one that does. Think of another. Hampton Court, south London. That's a bit of hemp, is it? Yeah. And that would be rope manufacture. Yes, that would be manufacturer of rope and cloth and that sort of thing. So I'm not trying to think of another one. There must be lots of other ones. Southampton, Northampton. There's the Hamptons in New York. Is that linked to this, or is that something? You don't care about american history, do you? It's probably named after our one. Yeah, of course it is. Of course. New Jersey and this sort of thing. They probably went. I was calling it after Hampton court or something. Or Southampton or something. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. All right. So. So Hampton is not etymologically related to ham in most cases. Because the thing is, all these names got corrupted in the middle ages, over 500 years. They just changed the spellings of them to make them different from each other. Little Hampton. Yeah, little Hampton. So it might well be to do hemp. That's why it's got the p. But in case of Southampton, it's not to do hemp. It's a ham. It was just for ease of pronunciation. And does ton. Is ton a derivative of town? Does ton leave us to town? Yeah. Leads us to town. Meant like an area of land. Then you got things like ing. If it means an ing, it means like a. Like a tribe. They're the oldest ones. And it means like a tribe of people. Like woking or godalming. It means, um, Walker's tribe or tutors tribe tuting or God helm. He was a. Yes. Big saxon leader. Anglo saxon leader. And then you get ing tongue as well. So it means that he might have, like, ington. Ing. Ton ing. Tonnington ing. Tony Lipo. And then the ink ton means the land of the tribe or the. You know. Have you been on mystery out before? No, I never know. Well, you. You're a natural. This is incredible. Oakhampton, Roehampton, Wolverhampton. Yeah, they all make sense. And once you've got, um. Once you've got a grasp of these little. These ones, which are quite common, you can actually then get a grip of what the actual landscape looked like a long time ago and how things were owned. Of course you can. How it was broken down. Yeah. Oh, wow. That is a lot you got. I bet you're a great teacher. You've really communicated your enthusiasm to me and everybody else. Listening qualifications which you've already told us. But just for the record, what are your qualifications? How do you know this? All this. Wow. I've got. I've got a degree in history and I study old english and anglo saxon stuff as a hobby. And I teach a level english history. This could be the beginning of a beautiful friendship, this could. James, make sure you're tuning in 12:00 every Thursday because we get a lot of stuff like this. Round of applause for James, please. Thank you. Thank you. Look at that. Mystery, our duck breaker. It's 1216 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1218 and indeed, mystery out is underway. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. So we've done the hams and the hamptons. I hope that Brad is happy. We need to know why girls aren't called junior. Daughters are never juniors in the way that sons are. And why does Dave lose so much weight while kipping zero? 345-606-0973 no Troy. Ray Liotta for James. He was good, but it was no Ray Liotta. There'll be lots of people who knew what he knew. Appreciate his knowledge was very specific to the question, but not radio to territory. I don't believe Stuart's at Heathrow. Stuart, question or answer? Question, please carry on. It's. How is the heat generated in a human body? Obviously, it maintains about 37 degrees. But how is that generated inside the human body? And where in the human body is that he generated? I like that question. I think. I'm not going to try and answer, which is odd. No, it's just something I've been wondering. My wife, she always runs cold. She wants to sleep with the heating on. I always run hot. I always want to sleep with the window open. It's often the other way around, I think. Who has the hot, who has the hotter water in the shower or the bath? Oh, the wife does always. Yeah, the wife does always, yeah. Always having to turn down the thermostat on. She feels the cold more than you do, but she can endure greater heat than you can as well. We're basically, we're basically the inferior part of the species in every, every evolutionary measure. It's just something. We don't have a heating element as such inside of us. And so where does that heat come from? We maintain 37 degrees. And how is that heat generated? Well, I mean, I know roughly how it's generated. It's chemical, like all reactions, you're turning chemical energy into heat energy. So it's an exo. But no, but that doesn't make sense, does it? I don't like it. Exothermic, do you? Metabolism. All right, you're on. It's on the board. How do we generate our own heat inside us? Thank you. No, thank you. Thank you. It's a good question. Well done, Stuart. Let's crack on. Peter is in Tenerife. Peter, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. Carry on to the chap who loses weight overnight. In fact, I think the majority of us will probably lose weight overnight. It's partly due to the majority of us will. All of us will break down fat while we sleep. We do a bit throughout the day, but while we sleep is when we recover the most. And fats are a triglyceride, effectively, which is carbon, oxygen and. Sorry, carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, when it's broken down, it turns into water and carbon dioxide and you breathe it out about four fifths of your fat. You breathe out? Yes. Since you metabolize most of it when you sleep. That's when you burn the most fat. So that's why it's so important to get a healthy amount of sleep. I had no idea. Yeah. So there's a vicious circle there as well, because if you, if you are overweight, it can have a deleterious effect on your sleep patterns, which means that you're less likely to be burning the fat that you need to burn. Yes. Oh, fine. Line's gone weird, but hopefully I'll be able to hear the. Your answer to this question. Qualifications biomedical scientist. Round of applause for Peter. That will do. I never knew that. You're breathing out. Breaking it down. Breaking the fat down into carbon dioxide and water and then breathing it out. Well, I love that. You live and learn. 1222 is the time. Ben's in Lewisham. Ben, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. It's about the naming of natural features. So sometimes the natural features is before the name and sometimes it's after. Yeah. So, for example, rivers are before. So river Thames and mountains are before, but things like seas or oceans or forests are after the name, if that makes sense. It does, yeah. I mean, I don't have specific. Is it? Yeah. So what else is there, though? I mean, apart from rivers and oceans? Mountains. Mountains, yeah. Well, do we. Oh, so we say, but I don't do it. Mount Everest. Mount Everest, yeah. But then there might be other ones where mountain comes after the description. Aren't there? Something mountain? Something mountain? Is there? I'm thinking of a ride at a theme park. I don't think that counts as a proper mountain, does it? Ice Mountain. Is it? I like rivers. Why do we say the name before we say the description? I don't know if there's going to be an answer to this one, Ben. Do you? No. I'm wondering if it's sort of linked to our mishmash of sort of etymology of language for English. Maybe it's the same in latin languages as well. I have no idea. That might be it, because I suppose rivers have been named here, whereas oceans have been named somehow from a more overview perspective, haven't they? I don't know who named the Mediterranean or the Atlantic, but we would have named rivers ourselves, so they'd have roots in English or Anglo Saxon or bitter Latin. River Thames River Thames river. Forests and rainforests are always after. I don't know, there's a thing there. So what determines whether the descriptor goes before or after the identifier? Yeah, I like that. Okay. I'd be amazed if we get an answer, but sometimes we are amazed, aren't we? That's the beauty of mystery. Our Ben, you're on the board. So we've got the. We've done Dave's question about weight. Peter answered that perfectly. Brad's question about hams and hamptons. James played a blinder there. We don't know why no daughters are called junior. We need to know how the body generates heat and we need to know why some natural. What's the word? Phenomena have the description. Forest of Dean black mountains. I thought this might happen. Is he still there? Ben, come back. Yeah, I'm here. So, we've got problem. We've got a problem. So, Sugarloaf Mountain, Table Mountain. Appalachian mountains. So is it inconsistent? Yeah. I'm trying to think of a river. Moon river. Or is that just the song? We say the Mississippi river, don't we? Not the river. Mississippi. I don't know. Yeah, we do. Mi ss rss ipp r Mississippi river. It's all falling apart. It's all falling apart, Ben. I'll leave it on the board. But more out of charity than curiosity. 1225 is the time. Walker is in Nelson in Lancashire. Walker. Question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please. Carry on, Walker. How do transplant organs work? The same way that the other ones do. So when you take it. When you take an organ out of one person. Yeah. All the blood vessels and nerves are cut. Yeah. When you put it in another person, how many do they attach? Really, is what we're interested in. We know how they can connect the blood vessels. Yeah, but how do the nerves connect up? Yeah, because. I mean, what, because they're so tiny, you wouldn't be able to do it manually, is that what we're thinking? Would they? Well, how do they do it? I don't know if they do do it. Do they have nerves. Are there nerves in your heart? Do you have nerves in your heart? Well, they have to. They have to receive signals from the brain, don't they, too? Indeed they do. So how do they connect that? It's a cracking question. Is it just born of curiosity or are you facing. I just. I just thought of it a few weeks ago. It's been on my little list for. Yeah, I can see why. I can see why. How do they connect the. How do they connect a transplant organ to the brain? Is what you're really asking, isn't it? I suppose, yeah. Gosh. A cracker, that. I like that one. Walker. Thank you. You are on the list. How do they connect new organs? When you have a transplant to your nerve network that is all the way to the brain. Maryse in Canterbury. Marie, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Marie. Why do we dance? What's the origin? It's probably linked to music and the origin of that. But why? It just seems a bit odd. Music's on and we suddenly start moving around in a. Well, in my case, probably very amateur fashion. Yeah. I'm not very good at dancing. I used to think I was, but there were reasons for that, that we don't need to go into alcohol related for me, anyway. Yeah, that would be one of the factors. But have you not just answered the question? If I start playing music now, we do. We will start moving, even if we're just nodding our head. And then once you start nodding your head, if the mood takes you and you start moving your arms, and then you might start moving your legs. So it's a natural reaction to rhythm, I think. But why, though? I don't know why. I mean, it's a brilliant question. Might be linked to the womb, I guess. The heartbeat. The heartbeat. The reminder of the heartbeat. The dim drums throbbing in the hills. Half heard to do. Yeah. And it. And it's become a, you know, a very stylized art form now, hasn't it? There are lots of different forms of dance. Yeah, but we're not thinking about that. We're not thinking about that. That kind of what made us the natural, the primitive, everybody point at them and just go, what the hell are you doing? What are you doing? What are you. Why. So why do we dance? Sounds like an album title, doesn't it? For, like, I don't know, air or, um, the chemical brothers. Why do we dance? Why do we. Right, you're on the board, Murray. I love that question. Again, as with Ben, I'm not sure we're going to get an answer, but you never know. You will do. This is anthropology, isn't it? This is basic anthropology. Someone will know. Yeah. Yeah. Why do we dance? I don't. No. Nor do I. Marie. Thank you. Why do we dance? How do you connect or how are transplanted organs connected to the nervous system? I knew when I said. I said nerve system a couple of minutes ago and in my head it felt wrong. You must do that as well. And I thought nervous system. I wonder what I mean by it's nervous system. That is brain as well. All the way to the brain. The naming of natural phenomena. Ben's question fell apart a bit, by his own admission, when we realized that there were plenty of examples of the opposite of what he presumed was the normal generating body heat. How does that work? And why are there no girls called juniors? It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. It is 1232. Mystery art continues. Let's just crack straight on. Claire is in rugby. Claire, question or answer? It's a question. It's a bit weird because when I was a child and up into my twenties and thirties, as you're falling asleep and you're sort of just dozing off. I used to get a weird sensation that a part of my body, let's say my head or my foot or my arm. Right. Was either huge or like a. Like a pinhead or tiny. Right. In relation to. And I don't know if that's a known thing, if there's a name for it. And what. What would cause it? It was a very peculiar feeling. Well, I'm. Yes, it is. I mean, I don't think I've ever had that one. Well, yeah, I always wonder, because I remember having it on a regular basis. How would it work? I mean, how would you think you had an enormous head? I don't know. It was just a sensation that your head was. Because you're drifting off to sleep. Your head, suddenly it was huge. Or. Or tiny. Or tiny. Or your leg or foot or something was. So any body part would. Would swell up to enormous proportions in your mind. Yes, or to tiny proportions. Or to tiny proportions. Just a weird sensation. I don't know if that's a known thing or. Well, I've never heard just me being very peculiar. Have you ever asked anybody else? Well, yes. And I don't know anybody else who's had it. No, nor do I. I'd be interested to know. Well, that means. I mean, we may not get an answer, but if we don't get an answer, that might mean you're. It's just you. Oh, but it might not. It doesn't happen anymore. I'm older now. I'm sort of in my sixties. But it definitely was a distinct feeling. Well, you're on. So how am I going to phrase the question? So I have no idea. I didn't know how to phrase it myself. No. So. So it's Claire's enormous stroke, tiny head, just before what's going on there or whatever. But it was always just like a nodding off time. Yes. As you was. Of drifting into sleep. Okay. That brings it into a different light, I think, because that's a bit like when you think you're falling or something like that. Your brain is playing tricks on you, isn't it? I might be just a nutcase. No, not a nutcase. You might be unique, you might be special. You might be the next stage of evolution. There might be an evolutionary advantage to what you've described that we are yet to identify. But come the revolution, you'll be in charge. Oh, wonderful. When I come to power. When you come to power? With your enormous stroke, tiny head. Thank you, Claire. It's on the board. No, thank you. 1234. So, big, big head, little head, dancing transplants. Heat and juniors. And also the question that doesn't make sense about rivers. Rod's in. Let me see how I get on with this. Epocende in Portugal. Rod, question or answer? Hi. Hello. It's spelled Espazend, but the Portuguese tend to pronounce it. Tend to pronounce it. They drop all the vowels at the beginnings and ends of words. Here. I got that horribly wrong in Portugal. Rods in spaznd. Rod. Question or answer? It's an answer to the how the body generates heat question. So, yeah, it's a chemical reaction. We break down. Every cell in the body uses glucose to make various ways of making an energy storage molecule called ACP. But instead. Instead of making that molecule, it can divert the energy to making heat energy as well. And so, yeah, if the body's temperatures lower, then it'll divert it more to that temperature to heat you up. And it's got a sort of built in thermostat. So it knows. The body knows roughly where it should be. Yeah, it's very. It can get quite complicated what's going on there. Whereas some animals, like so called cold blooded or poiklothermic animals, reptiles, etcetera, they will tend to then move into an area that's warm to get their body temperature up, whereas we've got our chemical reactions. They'll do nicely. Qualifications? Retired biology teacher. Lovely. Have you retired to spazzend? Kind of, yeah, I do a bit of it. Do a bit of exam marking occasionally, but keeping your eye in. Well, it sends you a round of applause, Rod. Thank you. Oh, thank you. I've got good news for Claire. My inbox has gone bonkers. Here you go. The feeling of big or tiny arms when drifting off to sleep was something I had as a child. It was terrifying. I was going through trauma at the time, I don't know why. So I'm not going to phone in. Exactly the same thing happened to me, says Jim, when I was younger, drifting in and out of sleep, and I would imagine a body part being much, much bigger. It was almost like an out of body experience. I got a possible answer there, but we don't take answers via text. Suzanne's very relieved that her husband's not the only one on the planet who does this regularly. Says his arm's gone all fat when he's falling asleep. Liz says, I've had the limb thing. That's what we call it, the limb thing. It would feel like my leg was really long and my foot was so far away from the rest of me and that my hand was tiny. What's going on? Then? How can we explain this phenomenon that Claire will be slightly relieved to learn is not confined to her? 1237 is the time. Charlie's in Bannister. Charlie, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. So I was getting ready for work the other morning. Oh, yeah? Oh, yes. Got the. Got the antiperspirant, deodorant, whatever you want to call it out. Yeah. And it just dawned upon me. Why do you only spray a very specific niche part of your body in the armpit? Yeah, why not? Everywhere else? Why not? Well, you can if you can. If you can, if you want, Charlie. Well, it's not very cost effective, is it? All necessary, really? That's the point of the question, isn't it? So, I think I know this. So body odor is not sweat, which is what you're thinking. It's stale sweat. And usually stale sweat is going to be abs. Sweat is going to be absorbed into your clothes. It's not going to smell. You will get smelly. Your clothes will get smelly if you don't change them for a long, long time. But your armpits are going to get smelly before any other part of your body because of the. You produce more sweat there. Very simply put. And also because your arms are usually by your side, it's not going anywhere else. But without getting to too much detail, me, like many others, do, sweat elsewhere, why don't you put it on different parts of your body? Because it's not going to go. It's not going to go stale. In the same way, you're not sweating as heavily, so your armpits are producing more sweat. And because it is that the environment of the fold of skin, if you like, engenders more staleness. All right, I think I'm satisfied. I suspect. I don't want to get indelicate, but I suspect that probably in the. In the trouser department. Well, there might be a case for deodorant as well. But we generally wash that pretty carefully, don't we? What I would like to know from someone who shaves their armpits is whether that has an impact on smelliness. It's a good point. Well, because my theory is that the hair, the atmosphere, that it feels like an armpit is like a fetid atmosphere, isn't it? When you think about it, if it was a planet, if you landed on the armpit, you'd be out of there pretty quickly. Whereas if you landed on a kneecap, if you landed on, you'd be sticking your flag right in the ground. I wasn't expecting it to go down the kneecap, but here we are. Here we are. I'm going to put it on the board. Why do we only spray our armpits? Because I think I've got close to an answer, but I'd be surprised if it was definitive. Thank you, Charlie. It's 1239. Darren's in Milton Keynes. Darren, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Okay, regarding a vinyl record player, for vinyl records, you've got three speeds, 45 revolutions per minute, revs per minute. You've got 33 and a third rpm, and you used to have 78 revolutions per minute. And the question is, why those specific speeds? Why not different speeds? How are those speeds? Okay, I thought that. I thought I was going to know the answer to that. I thought it was going to be, why do we have different speeds? And, well, anyway, you didn't ask that, so I won't show off by answering a question you haven't asked and probably getting it wrong anyway. So why those numbers? Why is 33, 45 and 78? 78, for younger listeners was indeed a vinyl category, wasn't it? Indeed, yeah. So that's the question. Why those numbers? For a reason. Yeah. It'll be some sort of ratio, won't it? It'll be some sort of ratio, yeah. And what makes 78 was the initial speed years, 1930s, whatever, and then they changed to 30. 78 was done away with. So there's a reason for that. Why change it to 33 and a third? Yeah. So there's some reason. I've searched the Internet and everything. I cannot find an answer. I've asked everybody. I cannot find an answer to that question. So I bet the challenge is out there, James. Well, that's what Mister jar was invented for. Well, not technically. It was invented so that we could do an hour without running risk of ofcom rules on the days of by elections. But it was also invented to get answers to the unanswerables, the previously unanswered questions. So why those numbers? It's not why do we have different speeds, but why 45, 33.3 and 78 when it comes to the revolutions per minute? For vine. Well, for turntables. Nice one. Thank you, Darren. So, a quick reminder. What's the time? 1241. Before we go to Jamie, we've got quite a lot that still need answers. We need to know we've done the body heat one. We need to know how transplanted organs are attached to your nervous system. We need to know why we dance. Why do we dance? Why do we dance? We need to know about enormous tiny limb syndromes. We need to know about sweating armpits and we need to know about double speeds, multiple speed record players. Jamie's in Chippenham. Jamie. Question or answer? Jamie. Yes, sorry, James. Hello? The line went dead, but I'm here now. What a relief. Question or answer? It's an answer. It's. Carry on. An answer to why Claire gets or not why, but what Claire gets strange feelings about in her bed at night. It's called Alice in Wonderland syndrome. Shut up. Seriously. I mean, that's the common name for it. I can't remember. Scientific or medical. Neurological. Yeah, syndrome. I used to suffer from it horrifically when I was a child, to some really bad extremes, and we just put it down to night terror. But later in life. Yeah, I sort of looked it up and, you know, this is a few years ago now, and realized that it wasn't just me or night terrorism. Alice in Wonderland syndrome. And so you look. You looked into it? You looked into. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. It seems. And I still suffer from it a little bit. Typically when I'm feeling quite anxious, I still get it at night and it's when you close your eyes and. Yeah, I mean, as a child, you know, I'd go down to my parents, I wouldn't let them touch me because they felt really far away. It's not just, you know, it's not just your own body, it's if you open your eyes and actually interact with people, you know, there's a lot of it out there. There's a lot of it in my inbox. So, I mean, it is. And a few. Quite a lot of people endorsing your Alison Wonderland syndrome description as well. So do we know why it happens? Is there an explanation for it? Or is it just a sort of neurological. Yes, exactly that. Yeah, I'm sure there probably is some scientific reason, but I'm not entirely sure. But from what I can remember looking into it, that's what it was called, and I suffered from it. Nicely done. And was it all limbs or your head, your fingers, your leg, anything? I remember it being specifically my fingers and when I used to interlock my fingers when I was suffering from it. I mean, it sounds silly, but they felt like huge sausages rather than my little tiny seven year old fingers. But, yeah, qualifications. You had it and you looked into it and you found a name for it, which is what Claire wanted. I said, never knew that you live and learn. Hughes in Cardiff. Hugh, question or answer? Answer. James, carry on. Hugh, it's about the transplanted, and I'm going to talk about heart specifically. Okay. Basically, we don't reconnect the nervous system. So the heart has an intrinsic, the cells of the heart beat on their own. So if you think when you take the heart out, you see it, sometimes they put it into cooling. When they take it out with a dead patient, it'll keep beating on its own? Yes. So when it's put into the body, in a normal body, we have fibers that make it go faster and some that make it go slower. And in a normal person, it tends to run about 50 or 60 beats per minute because the slower fibers sort of override the fast fibers. It's called parasympathetic and sympathetic systems. So when you, what we call denervate the heart and put a heart back in. Yeah. Beats without parasympathetic or sympathetic inputs, and it beats at its intrinsic rate, which is faster. So people with transplanted heart, their hearts beat at about 90 beats a minute rather than about 60 beats a minute. Well, I never. So they can, you can increase the heart rate going in somebody who transplanted heart, but you need to give them drugs that act directly on the heart, not through the nervous system itself. The heart can increase its output, its cardiac output, because you have something called cardiac output, which is dependent on the heart rate and the stroke volume. And the stroke volume is how hard the heart beats, and that's dependent on how much it's stretched by the blood going back to the heart. So when you do exercise and your body sort of, the vessels in the rest of the body contract and push more blood back to the heart, the stroke volume increases, so the amount of blood coming back to the heart increases and then the heart can push more out. And again, that's the intrinsic ability within the heart to do that. Okay. There is some evidence over time that the nerves find their way back into the heart, but it's never really the same, and it's definitely not done by. It's definitely not done by surgeons. Do we know anything about other organs? Do we know whether presume that you can't? Yeah, well, no, you can't really. The kidneys really work much on their own, really, so they don't need it. The lungs, similarly, a lot of that is less dependent on the nervous system, so most of their organs don't need it either. Oh, fair enough. Qualifications? I'm a consultant anaesthetist within the NHS fantastic. When did you last do a heart transplant? Oh, I've only ever anesthetized patients who've had heart transplants, so we need to know how to manage their blood pressure when they're under anesthetic. But I've never worked in a center where we actually do the transplant. Done some cardiac surgery and seen it beaten away, but never. How amazing. Never transplanted one. Fantastic. I think. Impeccable qualifications. Round of applause for Hugh, please. Thank you very much. No, thank you, Hugh. Lovely stuff. Real experts today. 1247 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LB. We see question still in need of answers. I know female juniors. Ben's weird question about natural features, which didn't really stand up to scrutiny. Maria's question about why do we dance? Why do we dance? Dunclair's question that was brilliant. And then Nathan's question about armpits and Charlie's question about record speeds. Anything else, Keith? That's the lot. Let's see if we can knock them all off. Mark's in barrow, in furnace. Mark, question or answer? Hello. As an answer, as you might expect. I did expect, but I'm not sure which one. I'm not sure which one it will be because we've done the hams and the hamptons. Well, no, I have an addition to that. Which. And you were speculating that it might involve languages of all. Oh, no, not Hampstead. Hamptons. World order and things like mountains. World order or mountains and rivers. Sorry, I was distracted about that. But that actually does make a point that in England, because there's been so many different groups of people coming here, you do get a mixture of languages of origin. So those hams, mostly it's english ham, but sometimes it's. It's the word hemp and so on. Occasionally, yes. And you. Some don't always. This isn't always obvious. And in fact, the word hemp is the same word as cannabis. Yes, as you might imagine from the meanings, but it's not obvious from the form, so you don't always know that. The thing about the rivers and mountains and so on. This is an example of a feature which applies to different languages in terms of when you get the head of an expression and a modifier. So in a language like Latin, you get the head first, the thing, which is what it's supposed to. The type of thing it is. So the word for, say, mount, Vesuvius. Is Mons Vesuvius. Mountain Vesuvius. The word for Rome is urbs. Roma, the city of Rome, and so on. Yes, but in some languages, the head comes at the end, and languages which have long words, long compound words like German, tend to have that. Yes. And so you get a form like neanderthal. Tal means valley. Neanderth river. Watt. Valley. The valley of that river. Yes. And if you get the german street name, the word for street, Strasse is at the end and often written as a single word. And so England. England has had influence from all these various languages in the first instance. Whereas. Whereas, whereas countries with, if you like a pioneer like America, you'd have a more homogeneous nomenclature because it was imposed at more or less the same time by more or less the same people. It was. And occasionally, of course, though, you get a random thing. You get someone who was in one place and decided that's going to be called the so and so. Yes, and it stuck. So the patterns are not rigid. And in a country like England, there's a big mixture because of all the different origins, of course. So basically, you've got this. Now, we can't always explain how the languages came to have the head at the beginning or the head at the end, like Latin versus German. Often that's far back in the midst of time. Wow. But once it gets set up and you think about it, it must be one or the other. You must normally have the head first or the head second. And most languages have. Have that very systematic. It's one way or the other within a given language. But England gets a mix because of it, because of our sort of mongrel heritage, our deeply mixed heritage. I love it. Qualifications? Mark? Reminders linguist over a long time, a long period. Fantastic. And a mystery hour legend. Round of applause for Mark, please. Thank you very much. Oh, thank you very much. George is in Preston. George, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, George. It's about the speeds of records. Oh, lovely. Yes, it's a bit long winded, so I'll praise you. But basically, with regards to 33 revolutions per minute and 45 revolutions per minute, it was two different systems by two different record companies. So you had RCA that invented the 45 revolutions per minute format, and Columbia that invented the 33 revolutions per minute format. Now, with 33 revolutions per minute, it was the standard speed of transcription disks for the radio. So before the advent of tape recording, they used to, you know, record concerts and things on transcription disks. So it was very easy for Columbia to bring out a system on that speed so that it could come out very quickly. And this is in the sort of very mid to late 1940s. So RCA thought, oh, dear, we've got a counterbalance this. So they brought the 45 revolutions per minute record out. So at one point you'd have bought an album that played at 45 rather than just single. Yes, that's where the word album comes from. Because you'd have a collection of. They would sell like a box set of, say, I've seen them at the Brentford, the Brentford Musical Museum. Have you ever been there? I have, actually. It's brilliant. It is sensational. It's a very underrated or under res. You don't. Most people don't know about it, but it's one of my favorite places. Well, I actually restore and collect vintage record players. I had a feeling that, well, then you're in. You're in heaven then when you go down there, that Wurlitz. Have you ever seen them playing the Worlitzer on the first floor that comes up? I play the Wurlitzer organ as well. You are winding me up, George. No, honestly. And have you been. You've been there then, have you, for the view, had a go. I have. You can watch for people who don't know. This is not for. You can watch old fashioned silent films accompanied by the kind of score that would have done that. I saw a Robin Hood film there. You've played for those? You've played for the thing. Yeah. At Brentford or. No, no, no. Just I'm 23 years old now and I've been collecting records since I was about six. So, yeah, so basically it was all to do with the record companies not wanting you to by each other's records and, you know, so it was like VHS and Betamax, really. Yeah. They licensed. You don't know what that means if you're 23, do you? Oh, I do. I actually repair Vitamax machines. You're a man of many talents, George. Basically. It's basically to do with the american archaic laws, the Edison cylinder as well. They ran at about 160 revolutions per minute. It was all to do basically with patents and market dominance as well. Trying to get a bit qualifications. Electronics engineer and vintage audio visual enthusiasts, really, when you're close to a Ray Liotta on this. But I don't think you're quite over the line. Why? Because the question could have been answered from someone without your expertise, if you see what I mean. The numbers are basically just pulled out of a hat. They don't anything, so there's no ratio. It's got nothing to do. Nothing to do with the size of the cogs or anything like that. No. 78 revolutions per minute records can run anywhere between 70 revolutions per minute and 90 revolutions per minute. Oh, you live and learn. It was all just to do with how much they could fit on the side of a disc or, you know, and that market dominance and patents, really, that's all to do with the numbers, mean nothing. Great work. When did you start playing the Wurlica organ? Oh, I started playing the organ when I was ten. Really? Electronic organ. Yeah. Cause my granddad used to take me to car boot sales and things and obviously I used to like records and I bought me some Krause thunder this year, organ records. And I thought, blimey, that sounds good, I want to play that. So badgered my mum and dad and they bought me an organ which they weren't too happy about having that great big thing in the house, but, well, like a bon tempe type organ. A sort of. Oh, no, it was. Oh, Hammond organ. Really? Yeah, yeah. And you progress from that to a wurlitzer, do you? Yeah, but I haven't got a wurlitzer in my house just yet. But there is time. Well, be careful. And how hard is it to learn what all the buttons and stops do? It so comes naturally, really. You sort of. If you want to change from one sound to another, it sort of comes naturally. You just kind of know where they are. Yeah. Quite intuitive. So they're designed intuitively. When are you next performing? When can people see you performing? We got anything in the diary performance, but occasionally I do go around the country doing little bits and bobs. I think I'm going to give you a Ray Liotta because you sound like a lovely bloke. And also because of that amazing little aligning of the planets with the Brentford, with the musical museum in Brentford, which we've managed. You want to try the Dulwich Vintage TV and Radio Museum. That's brilliant as well. I just walked past a Penn museum in Birmingham. I've never been there either. I might check that out in the diary. Give him a Ray Liotta, please, Keith. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. There you go, George. Thank you, James. Thank you, mate. We'll talk again. I sense Ellie's in York. Ellie? Question or answer? Might be the last one. Hello? I've got an answer. Well, I hope. Yes, so do I. Hey, you have to be quick. What have we got the one about done? Yes. Why do we dance? Well, I'm going to disappoint you at first and say there's no real answer because it's a human behavior thing. Yes. We've got some ideas. It's a human universal, like lots of things. All cultures do it. Which is always a bit suspicious that there's some biological reason for it, you know. Yes. And the best thinking is that because we're such. Our sociology is so important to us. It was a really important thing early on in our. Probably predates language. Any links to the womb and the heartbeat in the womb, do we think? I don't know about that. I think there are links. There's been some evidence that there are brain structures that suggests it's completely innate in our brain. So three month old babies will. Will dance, we'll move. But when you see it, don't you? We'll rock with the music qualifications. Ellie. I've got a degree in biological anthropology. That'll do. Round of applause for Ellie. Thank you very much. That's it. That's all we've got time for. I'm going to give the game to George. A very late entry and it just nicks James in Tower Hamlets out of the top spot at the very last minute. But I hope you enjoy the game, George. It will be on its way to you. Remember you can, can get your own from Mysteryhour dot co dot UK and you can recreate the fun of this feature in the comfort of your own home. That's it from me for today. Tom sawbrick with you at four. But now Sangeeta Maisker once again standing in for Sheila Fogarty.