Can you batter a Savaloy? - 26 Feb 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC and the question is entirely up to you this hour, isn't it? Any question you want, a whoather, a wherefore, even, perhaps the odd wither. Why do we do that, James? What's that all about? Where does that come from? What does this mean? How come that happens when you do that? Why does that follow? There are no real restrictions on what you can ask during this hour of radio except these two repetition and dullness. Dullness, I'm afraid, really is a case of the management's decision being final. If we don't like the question, we think that it's boring. We won't let it on the board. You'll be politely, relative term, invited to move along if you ring in with a dull question. If it's a question we can remember asking relatively recently, then we won't do that either. Otherwise, anything goes. Hit the numbers now with your question. You will get through, actually, a bit massive flurry, but of course, a lot of people ringing in at the top of the hour are ringing in with questions that we've dealt with before or that they don't realize aren't quite appropriate. So Michael and Jess spend about five minutes after twelve noon sifting and at the end of the sift, we usually have a few phone lines free again, as indeed we do now. So if you want to try to grab 10 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. You'd only hear me say that number again in the course of the next 55 minutes when I do actually have some lines into the studio free. In fact, that's true throughout the week, all 15 hours that we spend together in the week, if you hear me say the phone number, it means I've got phone lines free. If I never say the phone number. We speak to the same three people every day, interminably. Not always, Dolly. Some fascinating people ring in every day, but I always presume that the opportunity to ring in for the first time is one that people listening for the first time would welcome. Don't take emails, I'm afraid, or texts. During this hour, we sometimes try and squeeze in a Twitter question. It depends on whether or not podcast listeners, very popular podcast. You can download it from LBC dot co dot UK comma, previous episodes, or indeed from the iTunes website. Podcast listeners, of course, sometimes complain that they can't get involved, so we've tried to include them via a hashtag Twitter mystery hour. Hashtag mystery out. You. You can use that if you want. I'm not sure off the top of my head whether I've got anything up my Twitter sleeve this week, but I still have that question of my own that's gone unanswered. Now for the best part of this year, which is why. And there's a horrible story in the news today about why your weekend lying might actually be bad for your health. I'll share details of that with you, if I remember. But the question of why today? Alarm goes off. All you want to do is stay in bed Saturday morning, forgotten to unset. Your alarm goes off at the same time, can't go back to sleep for love nor money. Why people have tried so far to answer that question, I would kindly suggest they have so far failed. Right, let's get on with the questions. Ella is in kentish town. Ella, you can christen mystery out this week. What would you like to ask? Good morning. Well, afternoon. Yes. Okay. It's a bit of long winded way. I was walking my dog on the heath in the summer with my baby. My baby was about three months old. Okay. And on the heath they have these bins with poo bins as well. Is that. Am I allowed to say poo? Oh, you just did. All right. And they empty them out with a big massive hoover thing on a truck. Yeah. And they. Is this suitable? People are having their lunch, Ella, it's not funny. Is this really suitable? Let me just go. So what we're talking about is a pooh hoover. A poo hoover. And the bins as well. Summer, they were really smelly and this man in front of me was, like, violently retching. Really? And as I. Yeah. And various people were. But my baby didn't, you know, just didn't respond at all. So I'm wondering, this is what it led me to when the smell starts smelling bad to humans. So at what age? Yeah. When do we start associating a smell with something nasty? And that would make. What's that? I mean, three months. Three months old the bambino was at the time. Yeah. I wonder, because, you know, sight can take a while. Maybe the sense of smell doesn't kick in completely for a while. Would that be an answer to your question? That could be. Or it could be that babies, I do think they do have a sense of smell because they. They have to because of your milk. And they need to know from birth, you know, when they're breastfeeding, that they kind of go towards you, like, and smell is their instinct, isn't it? Yeah, but, I mean, it doesn't mean it's a fully developed sense of smell, does it? So you want to know whether or not babies can smell as keenly as grown ups, and if not, why not? Yeah, sort of. No, you don't. Okay, I'll try again. When do noses start detecting really rancid pongs? That's it? Yeah. All right. We got there in the end when the noses. Because your baby didn't respond to the disgusting dog mess and every adult around did. Why? Yeah, I like that. Actually, I wasn't sure where we were going with that, but I think it was worth the journey. Thank you very much. Remember, as I bid farewell to Ella, it could free up a phone line for you. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call Carolyn's in Eastbourne. Carolyn, question or answer? Here's a question. Carry on. Okay. I'm afraid it's not the most intellectually challenging. You say that you never know. I'm just making a sausage casserole in advance for this evening because when my son wakes up from his afternoon sleep, he's absolutely ravenous. I have to be kind of ahead of the game. And I was just looking at the recipe and I'm using pork sausages and it says to use beef stock with them. Yes. In every supermarket I've ever been in, in my remembrance, I've never seen pork stock fresh or stock cubes. And the same for duck. Why not? Why. Why can't you buy duck or pork stock? Yeah, okay. I did say it wasn't very stretchy. There's not much. No, it is. I mean, I quite like it. It's quite interesting. You can buy chicken stock. I don't think they sell enough duck, do they? Enough duck meat to actually have loads and loads of bones left over. Pardon? Yeah, duck, definitely. But pork is a lot more widely considered. Maybe it's not very nice pork stock. Yeah, but it might not be very nice pork stock. Yeah, but we don't know. That's the definitive answer as to why they don't make. Everyone's a critic these days. What's the point of inventing a game entirely? So that you can show off and only then have years down the line have callers correcting on what the rules are and how you're allowed to do it. Outrageous. Why can't you buy pork stock? Pork or duck? Yeah. No, no, I've thought of ducks. All right, I'll leave duck there as well. I'm not having another argument. Well, yeah, it could be. It could be the same reason why they. You can't buy ostrich stock either, can you? No, that's a good point. I'll get knotted. It's eleven minutes after twelve. Why can't you buy pork or duck stock and babies in smell? Why would a baby not respond to a rancid aroma as adults around him were retching? Three month old baby. Not even a. I was about to say not even a sniff. How come? Can you make sense of that for us? Roy's on the M 25. Roy, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. Hello Roy. I'm parked up in Oak Hill park at Barnett at the moment. I think last time I spoke to you I probably was on the M 25. Oh, okay. We better not change it to Oak Hill park in Barnet because then next time you ring in you'll be on the M 25 again. But anyway, I'm glad we've sort of cleared. What have you got for me? I was down in tent a couple of weeks ago with my youngest and we were driving along white downs and he said, why the downs? Called the downs when we're always up high, like Dunstable downs. And I thought that's a good one for James. So was curious. Yeah, the downs. What are the most famous downs? What are the most famous downs? I don't know the most famous. But you've got Dunstable. That's quite famous, I guess. Wide downs, North Kent Downs, there's Downs, Yorkshire, but you know, you're always up higher. Why are they calling down? You probably have solved this without realizing it yourself, because you're going for down, down deeper and down. You're not wondering whether that collection of letters might actually refer to an older word that means something very different from what it means now? Okay. And that word would be done, wouldn't it? D u n, which I think in Gaelic. I don't speak much Gaelic and the words I do know are not for repeating on a family radio program. But I think in Gaelic done means hill or hill. Very good. I think you deserve AAA. Round of applause for that, James. You said it, Roy. I'm pretty sure if I'm wrong on that, I'll be humiliated before close of play today, but otherwise that could be good for the guarantee. Zero. 345-606-0973 and of course, that means Roy can go home. This is how mystery hour started. Do you remember? Roy can go home and allow his son to continue believing that his dad knows everything. It's a way of continuing that completely fraudulent omniscience that all parents enjoy for a brief period at the early years of their children's life. Les is in Swanley. Les, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Right now, I've been trying to ask this question on your program many times. However. Here we go. What does that. Hang on. What does that mean? I've been turned down several times. And you got through today? Yes, I did. This does not fill me with hope. Okay. The earth rotates around the sun and rotates with its own axis. The moon does not rotate around the axis. And you find that most moons around planets do not rotate, but the planet does. Why? Because they're moons. Can't work this out. Yeah. Why? They have got the same core to a certain extent, but they don't rotate. We always see the front one side of the moon. We never see the backside unless you go around the back of it on a space shaft. The dark Pink Floyd album. Moons rotate. Is that the question? Why don't moons rotate? All right, someone could answer this. It's definitely true. Is it? I can see why you weren't put through. Because we get a bit nervous of interplanetary encounters. It puzzles me. Big time. Big time. All right. No, you're on. All right. Why don't moons rotate? I mean, why should they? Leslie's answer would be, because planets do and moons are planets. But I don't know. We'll try and get an answer to that. What else do we need? Babies and noses? Pork and duck stock. The downs. Oh, no, we did the downs. And why don't moons rotate? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. It's 12:15 this is. It's 19 minutes after twelve. I keep saying to myself, just remember to mention your book. And then I completely forget until I hear one of the other fellows mentioning theirs. Nick's got one out, as you just heard. Ian Dale's got one out about the NHS. Duncan Barks has written one about the dumbing down of our nation and Steve Allen has written one about celebrity culture, all characteristically incisive, waspish and whatever other adjective you want to insert into that sentence that possibly doesn't fit on the radio at 20 minutes after twelve in the afternoon. Mine is called loathe thy neighbour. And very briefly, if you would rather. So you see today that the immigration figures have been published. If you're determined to be furious, regardless of the facts, if you don't really know any immigrants or your life hasn't really been impacted upon them, but if you find yourself at the doctors later and the person in front of you has got a strong accent, if you're determined to be cross about that, I can't help you. If you'd rather not be. If you'd rather go a little bit christian and love thy neighbor instead of loathing them, then my book will help you. It will give you the tools that you need to be a little bit nicer or a little bit happier. Actually, nice is not a fair way of putting it. And you can buy it at LBC dot co dot UK or indeed at the Foyles website. So go and have a look at that. It's called loathe thy neighbour. If you're already perfectly relaxed about immigration and don't spend your life running around in fear at the presence of foreigners in your midst, it will help you win arguments with those weirdos who are determined to stay furious and frightened, it really will help you win arguments with them. They might not notice that you've won the argument, but you will. It's 21 minutes after twelve. Back to mystery hour. Rami is in Manchester. Rami, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Please go on, then. Just with the start. Stock question. I know for a fact you can get pork stock because I have bought it. But you do have to go to one of the larger supermarkets. You see, someone tuning in for the first time may not realize that they've stumbled upon one of the most popular features of british radio. And they just heard you say, I know that you can buy pork stock as I have bought it myself and you have to go to one of the larger supermarkets. But you solved the mystery. Our mystery. Rami, you're right. You just have no idea how happy I am about that. I've been listening to you for about pork four years, but it's always been on the podcast. And now here you are, live and dangerous. Oh, yeah. Happy day for me. Crikey. We better make sure the applause works. James. Who'd have thought pork stock could deliver such pleasure? Why can't you buy it in pots? It's probably something to do with perishability, but you can definitely buy stock cubes. And if you look hard enough, you could probably buy duck stock as well, in China. Although I did like the question. Ricardo's in. Weybridge Ricardo. Well, question or answer? Question. James, morning time. Good afternoon to you. Nice talking to you. I have a lovely relationship with you, but what can I say? Our relationship means a lot to me as well. Ricardo. Yeah, right. My question is, why is it that we speak English, use the Alphabet, but the other countries, India, the Indians and the Chinese, they use the english Alphabet to spell their names. Mahanda Ring Singh and Kim Jong young and Tai Chi Chu. Why is it that the Chinese Indians, it's spelled in English? Because you're reading it in English. If you were reading a korean newspaper, it wouldn't say Kim Jong un. It'd be a succession of characters. But their names, they're actually names if they're indian, they're phonetic, aren't they? It's just that the sounds that are denoted by the sanskrit characters or the chinese characters are emulated by a collection of letters. It's a sound. So the ran sound, like, ranjit, you've got. That's not going to be a six letter word in Sanskrit or Indian or Gujarati or whatever it may be, but the sounds will be the same, and they just reproduce that. They replicate the sounds, don't they? Don't they? I said that with great confidence, and as I got towards the end of the sentence, I wondered if I was speaking out of my posterior. I don't have no. I have no. I just. I don't know if even your answer is right, but I just can't absorb an indian person name spelling English, and it's indian, and then they write in indian or Hindu or whatever. Yeah, but they don't. You don't have, like, a load of indian characters on a page, and then Ranjit stuck in the middle of it in recognizable arabic letters, english Alphabet letters. Do you. If it was a page of indian, it would say Ranjit on it, but you and I wouldn't know because we don't do the indian. So you're saying what? You're saying that when we see Mohandarin Singh, or sac and Tenduka, it's actually something else in an indian? That's exactly, yes. And what was the other one? Hai chi chu. Yeah, something like that. That is exactly what I'm saying. I'm leaning towards taking your answer. I think you've got no choice. Let's wait and see what happens when we throw it in the air. Oh, get in. Ricardo, many thanks. I like that question. I like that question a lot. My favorite mystery. Our questions are the ones that really do feel like massive mysteries, and then you just got this little thread poking out the back of them, and you give it the tiniest little tug and the whole mystery falls to pieces. Favorite one ever. Probably the bloke who rang in to say, why people he'd seen. He's only had one bicycle clip on. James, why do people ride around where I am now with only one bicycle clip on? You've been positive. How long have you been worrying about. He said months. Years. All my life. One bicycle clip. Matt's in leatherhead. Question or answer, Matt? It's an answer, James. It's to do with the babies and their sense of smell. Oh, yes. And the answer, I think, is that the baby can smell the bad smell, but it has no reference that it's disgusting. And there was a program years ago, a documentary called the anatomy of disgusting things on channel four. The anatomy of disgusting things. Now, the anatomy of disgust, I think it was. Memory. Serves me right. I can see why you watch that. And it was about how we're trained or conditioned to find things disgusting. And I think the kind of proof in the pudding with the whole baby thing, they don't find too disgusting, do they? They have to be taught not to try to eat it. Exactly. So any. I hope no one's tucking into a nice, delicious chocolate mousse at the moment, but. Yeah, but if they. If they were, they won't be now. You didn't have to be quite so graphic, mate, did you? So it is a learned behavior. Revulsion at things that are dangerous is a learned behavior. And it's why, actually, we still, even if it has a smell that we associate with. So something that's decayed, like some cheeses, which are bacteria, which gives them their flavor and pungency. And we do actually balk at the smell, even though when we taste them, they taste delicious. We've taught ourselves to respond, or our parents, our mums, have taught us to be repelled by those sort of smells because they usually mask something unhealthy, something that's very, very bad for us. That's it. So if you put a bouquet of flowers in front of a baby and, you know, something unpleasant, unsavory. Yes. Then, you know, they're not allowed to really go to the. I think. I think you're right. Qualifications? Watch the telly jam. Um, no, it just. It just triggered my memory when the question was being asked about that documentary I saw years ago. And they did a lot of tests involving babies and, you know, the conclusion was that we're conditioned to find things scary, disgusting, etcetera. Yeah, I think you're right. Well, I think you're right. I'm going to give you a round of applause, because I can. But if you turn out to be wrong, you'll have to give it back. Okay? Okay. Brain central. It's the brains trust. We might rename mystery our. The brains trust. Someone's already had that name. Apparently Stephen is in Crawley. Stephen. Question or answer? An answer, James. Carry on, Stephen. I've been trying to get on for years to give an answer. I keep getting beaten to it. Oh, no, don't say that, mate. The more you big it up, the more. The more chance there is of humble pie being on the menu. Gone. Have you got a book out, by any chance? Funny. As you say, that's called loathe of thy neighbor, mate. You might. You might want to check it out. Lord. Amazing. I might have a look into that. Thanks for asking. Yes, it doesn't rotate. It's because it is very slightly egg shaped. And being egg shaped, the heaviest side of the moon will always face towards the largest source of gravity, which is the earth. Simple as that. I hope you're right, but I have to tell you, I hope you're right, but I've got a professor on the other line. Oh, Mister Howe? No, the other one. Professor Martin Smith, professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. So I'm going to have to check with the professor. Is that all right? Let me be. Right. Well, it's not up to me, it's up to Professor Smith. The moon is egg shaped, Professor Smith, and that means that the heavy end stays close to Earth. Well, not exactly egg shaped, but there is a bulge caused by the gravity, so. And your man is correct, the moon does not appear to. Wait there, professor. Just, just bear with me one moment. Stephen, mate, I think you're over the line. Yeah, good, mate. I'll just. I'll just indulge the professor for a couple of minutes and I'll come back and give you a round of applause. Don't go away. Exactly. I will, Professor Smith. Carry on. Okay. Well, the moon does rotate, but it rotates the same rate as the. The earth, so it appears not to rotate. And the reason it does rotate at the same speed as the Earth is because the gravity has produced a bulge and that bulge is attracted to the earth. So the moon's bulge is sort of effectively keeps it in lock in synchronism with the earth's rotation. I mean, your answer obviously has more academic credibility than Stephen's, but I think. And you have had several rounds of applause yourself in the past, Professor Smith. I think it may be gracious of both of us to afford this one. To Stephen. Oh, absolutely. No problem with that. Stephen, mate, you're in. Thank you very much. I've been waiting for that for a long time. I hope it was worth it. It's coming up to 12:30. Professor Smith. Stephen, many thanks. Questions that still need answers include. We've done them all. We've done them all. Why's my voice going up? I don't know. Must be the surprise. No, I'm not in that advert. You keep asking me about it. That's not my voice. Going up several octaves. Zero. 345-606-0973 need some more questions on the board and then you can start answering them. Unless, of course, I've missed one. And there's the one you've missed, which is my question. Which is now coming around like clockwork every week. How come when you don't have to get up, you don't want to stay in bed? When you do have to get up, nothing would please you more than the phone ringing and someone saying, you're fired. You can stay in bed today. I'm James O'Brien. You're listening to LBC at 12:30 1233 is the time. Mystery hour is underway. Let's get some more questions on the board. If you have one, why not get involved? Zero. 345-606-0973 you don't have to have any qualifications in an academic sense. You just need to be able to explain why, you know, what you know, if you ring in with an answer. Ryan's in Westminster. Ryan, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Alright, mate. Toilet paper. Pardon? Toilet paper. Right. Why did I make, you know, the perforations between the squares? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Why are they made so uselessly small? I mean, that size of paper is of no use to anyone, is it? You mean no one ever wants a single sheet? Exactly. So why. I mean, is it just so that you can, you know, you've got a more varied length you can pull off, or is there some reason they're that size? I think. I think the first word you used is the answer to the question. I'm going to leave it on the board because I'm just thinking out loud. But surely the more perforations you have, the more variety of length you can have. Exactly, yeah, yeah. But I just wondered if that size was actually designed at some stage to be of some use. No, it can't have been. Oh, hang on. Have you ever had a nosebleed? Yep. Yep. Stick your finger. Yeah. You pull one up and stick it up your nostril. Yeah, but then I'd normally use a tissue because it's softer on the nose. Stop being so pedantic. Really? Softer on the nose. Softer on the nose, you say? Like a wine expert, it's softer on the nose than the shabbat. I think I prefer. You get sores, don't you? If you use toilet paper to blow your nose, you can do sometimes, but not to blow it. I meant to sort of clog it up rather than actually blow it. I think it. Well, I don't know. I love the question. Why are individual sheets of toilet paper so small? I knew you'd like that. Yeah, well, I didn't think I would at first, but you've sort of seduced me into your toilet paper fetish, Ryan. I won't go that far, but thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's 1235. Answer that. I'll give you the money myself. Adrian. Is it Adrian or Aidan? He's in haze. Aiden. I've got ad in here, so I figured it was one or the other. Question or answer? I have an answer. Yes. For your sleep question. Yes. Oh, well, specifically about waking up. Yes. This is a level psychology, so I'm a bit rusty. Okay. Jones, the engineer has a degree in psychology, so he might even rustier than your a level, but he might gallop to your rescue in the course. He's had fun about six months to answer that question. He hasn't tried yet, so crack on. Aidan. Well, hopefully what I'm saying makes sense to him. But essentially there's five stages of sleep. Yes. One through five. One being like a light snooze. And five is rem sleep, rapid eye movement. These are the circadian cycles. They are indeed. Yeah. I believe a guy last week or the week before mentioned them. He did. So when you go to sleep, you start in stage one and go to stage five, then back to stage one again. Yeah. And so you wake up in stage one, but when you've got an alarm, it might wake you up in stage two or three, maybe even four. Yeah. So when you're in stage four, you're a lot more groggy and just want to go back to sleep so you can get back into stage one. Yeah. I believe in stage one, your brain releases something on a Saturday when it wakes me up and I'm groggy and I try to go back to sleep. Why can't I? Well, when you initially asked the question, you said that you didn't have an alarm on Saturday, which would suggest that you woke up naturally at about 08:00. I usually awake when my alarm goes off anyway. Does that help your theory? Well, it does, because back in, like, neanderthal times, we would wake up as the sunrises. We would. And that would control our rhythm. But you've artificially changed your rhythm by using an alarm. So your brain knows that around 08:00 you'd want to be waking up 06:15 but you might not be quite. Well. Sorry, I'm using 08:00. I wake up about 08:00. Yes. So your body knows roughly what time to wake you up and really release chemicals into your brain. So if I didn't have to go to work, if I didn't actually have to get out of bed and get up, even though I think I would be able to, the chances are I wouldn't be able to go back to sleep. So it is just the body. I reckon if you put your mind to it, you would be able to get back to sleep. Your body is preparing you to wake up. I don't know that I've got. We've got enough here. I don't know if we've got enough. I am a bit rusty on such things. No, it's not rustiness. I just. I just think it's something. Do you ever find you ever. Would you walk much or you door to door by car, Aidan? More often. Not by car these days, because I do a lot of walking. And very, very often when I get to the front door, I suddenly need a weed in a way that I have not needed for the entire journey high on. We walk in the kids home from school most evenings and it's about a half hour walk. And then, lo and behold, I get to the front door, get my keys out and I'm hopping around on one leg. I think it's something like that. I think it's something more like that kind of reflexy thingy or psychological subconscious than conscious. You're well out of my ballpark now, but I imagine it's to do with chemicals being released in your brain. So it's getting ready to relax, expel the waste, so to speak. Yes. So you're. You're in that mindset, ready to do it, but you're not ready to do it unless you're in the toilet at the time. Yeah. So am I going to give you. I'm going to let Jones, because he's got a bachelor's degree in. In psycho. Is there a bSc or a ba? He's got BSC, Aidan. Whoa, whoa. Well, I bow down to his greater knowledge. We're all bound down to Jones today. What do you reckon, Jones? Oh, my gosh. There's going to be a lot. There's going to be a lot of problems out, because I think, as you mentioned, a couple of people have come pretty close to saying what you said in previous weeks. They're going to feel deeply aggrieved, Aidan. But Jones's decision is final. Well, I await a student's inquiry. A student's inquiry? Students inquiry might have been an agreeably freudian slip, actually. Mix in. Serviton. Mick, question or answer? I've got a question. Please don't. Mickey, if you had a nuclear explosion in space, would it be such a big bang like the Hiroshima bomb, or would it just be like a damp banger in a firework box, just going bang? If you set up a nuclear explosion. I heard you. I mean, why would. Well, if a nuclear explosion is a chain reaction, there's no atmosphere in space, so there'd be nothing to. To. Yes, that's why you're asking, isn't it? Yeah, that's why you're asking. Do you get like a big bang or does it just sort of go. But in space, no one can hear you scream? Wouldn't really affect it in, would it? But if no one can hear you scream, which was the slogan on alien, wasn't it? Space. Not if not gonna you scream. Why would you be able to hear a nuclear bomb, but would it still have the same effect being able to destroy things with. If you. If you dropped a bomb in space, or what's the word? Exploded a bomb, detonated a nuclear bomb in space, would it be as big a bang as okay as it would on earth as it is on earth? Sounds like a prayer, mate. You're on. Why do you want to know? What have you got planned this weekend? I was trying to sort of answer a question from my son. Let's get an answer for your son. Seriously. Even if it kills us. 1241 is the time. Professor Howell is already on the line from Brighton, which means he's not rung in to answer Mick's question. Although I suspect his academic winkle pickers may be kicking him at the moment. Professor Howe, question or answer? My academic cowboy boots are certainly kicking. No, a deal is a deal. And a phone with a question and a question you shall have. Ooh. Recently I changed all the light bulbs in my kitchen. From halogen to leds. Halogen, Professor Halogen. Sorry, just for me and Jones. Carry on. And when I turn the lights on, the radio, which is a digital radio, stopped working. It just stopped, the sound stopped. So I turned the lights. I just thought, oh, I'll turn the lights off. And it started again. So basically, there seems to be this cause and effect with the radio and the leds. Now, I got my. I eliminated all the other variables and it still happened. So I used the up lighters, which were still halogen lights, and the radio worked. I got my kids to peer review my results and they concurred. So it appears that leds interfere with digital radio and I don't know why. And I would very much like to. Well, you're the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. If you don't know why, what chance is there of mere mortals like us knowing why? That's the point. It's probably some electrician or some physicist. Yeah, physicist might be able to do it. So why do they. So you've peer reviewed it and you've detected a causal link? Yes. No, my kids actually did the peer review. Fair enough. Your peers have to peer review. Yes, exactly. So why do your led light bulbs make your digital radio stop working? Yeah, led light bulbs stop. They stop the reception because you can still see the little lights on and it still says LBC, of course. Sound, of course. You see. No, I didn't mean that, really. You're listening to LBC. Obviously you listen to LBC because you're talking to me. I meant really as in you can still see it as if it's all on and broadcasting, but there's just nothing coming out. The speed. Yeah, there's just no sound whatsoever. You've checked the volume, have you, Hal? Oh, James, seriously. No, it's only the radio. And how beats are the sound goes led now, anyway. Yes. Can I leave that with you? Yeah, you can. Okay. I know what he's doing now. He's thinking, can I just have a go at answering the last question? Aren't you, Hal? So I get round of applause now. Not for your question, mate. No, just let me. James, please, can I answer the question about the nuclear bomb in space? James, please. Please, James. James, can I answer the question? No. Hell no. Rules are rules. 1244, very nearly. Professor Howell means your help for the first time. Is that the first time? Are you still there, Hal? Yes, I am. No, I got skewered because once asked what Wayne from Badleton said was a stupid question about why, when I parked my car. Oh, the heat and the melting on the water. I've got a memory for that as well. You're right, it was a stupid question, but this one isn't. It's 1244. A mention of Wayne from Basildon, who I know. For those of you who only tune in for mystery hour, I'll pretend I'm not deeply offended by that. And you may have been keeping track of Wayne from Basildon's imminent fatherhood. He now is the proud dad of a lovely, lovely little girl who is listening to mystery hour for the very first time. As we speak. Sean is in Camden. Shaun, question or answer? It's a question, James. Yes. So, in a fish and chip shop, why do they only batter the sausage and not the Savoy? I would like to. Come here. Come here, Sean. I'm going to give you a man hug, mate. That is a beautiful, beautiful question and one which I have wondered. I love that. I'm very, very partial to a Savaloy and I have often wondered that, because I quite enjoy battered sausage. But the trade off is when you have a Savoy, you don't get the batter. Exactly. I think. Have you never given it any thought? Have you got your own theory? Maybe something to do with the batter not sticking to the coating of the savaloy? I think that's what it is. But we need to hear, we need to go definitive. We need to speak to someone in a tippy. We've had. We've had calls before from Ollie's in Herne Hill, haven't we? But I'll tell Captain cods in kidderminster. Any, any fish and chip shop you like? Well, why don't you? Because someone. They must have tried to do it. How could you possibly work in a fish and chip shop for more than, oh, seven minutes without thinking to yourself, oh, my God, I'm going to batter a savannah. But that will almost slide straight off again. Well, for the batter will slide straight off before it's even got into the deep fat fryer, because it's got a very, um. It's got a very smooth sheath. A saveloy. It's 1245. It's 1250. And I've got some breaking news coming in from Brian. Apparently there's a chippy in Harpenden called skippers that does battered saveloys. I'd have to see it to believe it, Brian. He kindly offers that he will go and have one now for mystery hour research purposes. I've never seen a battered savoy. It sounds like the beginning of a music hall song, doesn't it? Well, I've seen an elephant and a kangaroo, but I've never seen a battered saveloy. Don't worry, Sheila will be here in nine minutes. Alex is in Richmond. Alex, question or answer? All right, James. It's a daft question. I think it's daft and there should be an answer. The word representative. I heard it twice in the commercial break. Apr. Representative or representative APR. Either it is 4% apr or it's not 4%. What does the word representative mean? And why is it always in there? Because it could change. No, if you take. You buy a car on 4% apr, you're going to pay 4% apr. Why do you have to have the word representative in? I don't know. You're right. It's not going to change to 6% while you're paying for it. That is the most boring question we've ever had on mystery. I know. I regret. Why have you rung in with it, man? Well, we were battering Savaloise a matter of moments ago, and before that it was nuclear bombs going off in space. I keep hearing this word representative and it's bugging me, so. Representative. Apron. Yeah. Representative. Why isn't it just APR? Annual percentage. Right. A representative annual percentage. All right, I'll leave it. You're on now. You're in now. I can't. I mean. Yeah, next time, mate. It's 1251. Andy's in Kilkenny in the old country. Andy, what would you like to say? Question or answer? It's an answer. James. Harriet. Very well. I'm honored to be able to answer a question posed by a professor. Well, let's see. Led lights. Come on, then. Well, an led is a little component that when you give it a dc voltage, that same sort of voltage comes out of the battery. Light comes out of it. Now, if you're going to plug it into the mains in your house, the mains is at 240 volts ac, right? So within that package, within that light you're plugging in is a power supply. They're normally called switch mode power supplies. It takes the 240 volts ac and converts it to a dc voltage that the LED could use. No, that's all well and good, except those little circuits, if they're not very good or they're cheap. Professor Howe's got cheap lights, shall we say? Then what happens is that during the course of their process, they produce a noise, a kind of a hash that can leak back out into the mains. Wiring of your house. If you imagine you've got loads of wires all around your house, that's effectively an antenna, and that will transmit all that hash all around your house. Meantime, the professor's poor dab radio is attempting to pick up a signal from a transmitter 10 miles away, which isn't very strong by the time it gets into his kitchen. So if the level of the hash coming out of your mains wiring caused by the LED light exceeds the level of the received signal from the DAB transmitter, it will just switch off, because DAB is either there or not there. So if the level of the hash exceeds the level of the received signal, it stops working. That's one of the most definitive answers I can remember receiving on mister. What are your qualifications? Andy? I'm a broadcast engineer. Boom. If you build it, they will come. Let's see what hash comes out of Jones's fingers next. There it is. Happy days. And I've got something exciting to happen. Now, a lot of you, before we went away for half term. Well, you didn't go away for halftime. I did go away from half term. You heard Harvey ring in from Bromley with a question about his. I used the word estranged. He didn't like the word, but he'd broken up. Well, anyway, you listen to this. You do remember this? It's a question. It's an idea as well. It's split up with my girlfriend over the last week, and it's coming up to Valentine's. And I thought, she's got a little lap dog. You know, these sort of toy dogs I have, which is white. So I thought what would be really endearing and quite cute is if I dyed her a dog to look like a tiger, then it would match her front room, and she'd like the idea of that, and it might sort of get me back in her affections. So that was two weeks ago. Last week I wasn't here. I was up a mountain in Morocco, actually, when I. When I turned my phone on for the first time in my holiday. And bizarrely, given the brilliance of the. The last call from Kilkenny, I had quite a good signal. And the first four tweets I got, Harvey and Bromley, were about you and your girlfriend's dog. People were deeply concerned about your plan, both because they were worried about the animals welfare and your ability to do the dye job effectively, but also worried about the potential success of your. Well, ostensibly romantic plan to rekindle the fires of your love by turning her pet dog into a tiger. I need to ask you, Harvey, what happened? It's not good, James. I don't know if you want a happy ending and hearing wedding bells, but it's not as good as what it was disastrous. It's one of those things. I don't mind sharing it with you. James, you don't have to. It's only the dog. No, I mean, it's just. I lose all sort of dignity. But there's no one that's listening this or people working on your show that haven't done something a bit silly in the quest of romance or love, like, you know. So it is like having a friend to talk to at LBC. It makes. It feels a bit better when you sort of talk it through. All right. But what happened was, my daughter's got a friend who's got beauty products, so she went and got some dye for us. But the dye is okay. You don't have to worry about that. The dye is okay as long as you don't be on broken skin. Right. Yeah. So, you know. And I said about leaving the dog's hair long. Yes. Okay. Not cutting it. So that's all. Okay. You didn't cut. And then I went to the. To the fancy dress shop and got some black sprite. Right. But I also went and got a dog's collar. So you dyed the dog orange and then painted on black stripes? Well, that's what the idea was. Yeah. But I went and got a dog collar as well, you know, the studded one, so it looks more sort of. Yeah. But I couldn't get one out of the pet shop because they're quite big vicious ones, aren't they? So I went, it's a tiny little dog, isn't it? Like a sort of b shop. Yes. I went to one of those, sort of where a mummy. The children still offer half term, but a bondage shop. Yeah. Right, okay. Yeah. So I went and got a collar there. Yeah. And then. So off I goes through the towel. So I've done 20 quid on the collar, 18 quid on the die and the spray paint. Yeah, yeah. Gone through the tunnel. Sorry. Gone over the toll and had to pay for the tow. Yeah. Turned up around. I'm thinking, I've got an hour and a half now. Knocked on the door. Jodie's answer. Her daughter has answered the door. So come in and guess who's sitting there? The ex. Yeah, the ex boyfriend, dude. Now I'm the ex. And he's not the ex. Oh, man. No. So he says to me, what you're doing here? And I wish I could say to you, James. I said the first thing that came into my head, but it didn't even come into my head, it came out my mouth. I just went, I'm going out tonight and my. I'm full with my hair this color, so I thought Tina could dye it for us, but since she's not here, I'll be on my way. But her daughter's really nice and really accommodating. Her daughter said. Pipes up and said, no, I dye my mum's hair. She don't dye it herself. I diet, so I'll dye yours. And I. Well, the ex is a big lump, like, you know, quite intimidating and that. So I just thought I had to get on with it and sort it out later. So I've gone up and the daughter has done all the product in my hair. Like, she done it properly, put sort of vaseline around the sort of edges so it doesn't smear onto me face and, you know, that type of thing. Bobby, the dog's coming. He likes me because I've got him. When I first went round and I've got him a bone, but a proper, you know, a big bone that's got a knuckle at each end. Yeah, I do. It was almost as big as it, like Nasha the dog bone. Yeah. So I went and got it from one. Improper butchers, Dana. You know the ones where they got the queue outside. I do, yeah. Proper, yeah. So I've got it in one of us. We've only got 10 seconds left. Oh, all right, well, carry on. I've moved on. James. There's another girl that I like, but she's got one of them chow chow dogs. But I can't help myself. I keep looking at you thinking, that looks like a lion. And I've got a pair of yellow socks. And how long did the. Did the hair stay on? Oh, I put loads of gel in it and wax light to temper it down so it didn't stay bright orange. But it's out of it now. Harvey, mate, I've got to go. Sheila Fogarty is here, who, funnily enough, is also toying with the idea of dying her hair orange. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Harvey. God bless, mate. There's plenty more fish in the sea and thankfully, no tigers. Here's Sheila.