Why is there a Pineapple on the top of the Wimbledon trophy?

Hallelujah. Three minutes after twelve and it's Thursday and the news agenda has temporarily slowed down to a degree sufficient to allow us to launch our weekly adventure into the unknown. It was postponed last week and then subsequently cancelled this week. Well, let's see how we get on. I can't quite think of anything important enough to cancel mystery out. But I probably said that last week, shortly before Boris Johnson pulled out the conservative leadership campaign. Three minutes after twelve is the time. You know the number. The way it works. This you have lurking somewhere in your mind a mystery. You may not know that it's lurking somewhere in your mind. You may not even know that it's a mystery, but you almost certainly have a question in desperate need of an answer. This is where you find one. Whether it's a who, a why, a when, a whence, a whither, or even the occasional wherefore. It's just there. It's bubbling away in the back here. Why do we do that? What's that about, James? Where does that come from? What's the origin of this? Why, when you see that, does that happen? Why does that do this and that? Do that and this? Do that and that? Do this? Whatever it may be. The number you need to get involved I will remind you of whenever I have a spare slot on the switchboard. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you do know the answer, then you have to ring in, otherwise your radio might melt. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need for that. I make two guarantees at this point in proceedings. I guarantee that by 01:00 today you will know more than you do now. I can't guarantee that the knowledge will prove of any use to you whatsoever. It's perfectly possible that the information you glean in the course of the next 54 minutes will prove to be supremely pointless in the great scheme things. But the sum total of your knowledge will increase between now and 01:00 you'll also laugh out loud at least once. I've never had to pay out any refunds on that promise, but every week I feel as if we're taking our lives in our hands. So you'll get a laugh out loud moment and you'll know more by 01:00 than you do now. I can't say fairer than that. I'll remind you of the phone number whenever there is a slot on the switchboard. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, ring in and provide it. And I haven't done it for a week. Have I forgotten anything? Have I forgotten anything? We've got our rounds of applause. Have we got our Ray Liotta quote ready? Should we do the Ray Liotta quote now? Just to sort of get ourselves in the. In the mystery mood. You be familiar, if you haven't listened for a while, we've had a catchphrase on the program for some time. If you build it, he will come. It's a slight sort of evolution on our part of a line delivered in that Kevin Costner film. If you build it, they will come. It's the other way around. We say he will come. We say they will come. He said he will come. Anyway, here's the bloke that said it in the film saying it for you. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Oh, yeah. If you build it, they will come. Thanks, Ray. Sally is in Gloucestershire. Question or answer, Sally? Oh, question. Hello. Hello. What is it? Yes. I hope this doesn't come across as a silly woman's question, but there you go. Will the point ever come where the Internet gets full? Because everything gets updated on the Internet every five minutes and you can do a search for anything. 510 15 years ago and it's all there. But that's it, really. Will the point come when it gets full and it explodes or it just disappears or what? That's my question. How much responsibility do you think you might personally bear for the Internet becoming full? Do you use it a lot? Pathetically little, really. Yes. Yes. I'm not signed up to very much. I play Scrabble. I don't think that's. Oh, no, Scrabble is a really big problem for the Internet. No, it is, because the Internet. The Internet doesn't just have to store all the words you use in the game of Scrabble. The Internet also has to store all the words you didn't use. So it has to have every possible. Every possible arrangement of all your letters in every game you play. That's what. That's actually what's filling up the Internet, Sally. No, you're. No, no, you're just. You're just wittering now. How dare you, madam. How dare you? Double letter score. Yeah. Is it triple? I think I know the answer. The answer is sort of yes, but it will never happen because of. So I don't know why I'm trying to answer this. There are servers you can always. You're not going to get a round of applause I'll be the judge of that, madam. Someone will know the answer and they will phone in. Now, look, I've actually got to go because I've got to pick my son up at the airport and it's a long way from Gloucestershire to Heathrow. It is. Are you going to have me on the radio? I can I get you on the car radio? My husband is hovering by the phone, so he can. He can let me know. So he's going to stay and listen. My son, who's coming in from Switzerland, he downloads your mystery hour every week and now he's going to hear his mum on it. Oh, yes, he is, yes. How proud is he going to be? It's almost worth coming all the way back from Switzerland for that treat alone. No, he lives there. Anyway, I should find out for you. I gather, Sally, that not only that you're in a rush to get off, but also that you're not remotely interested in my attempt at answering your question, so I won't insist you by trying. Can I just say hello to your husband? Not on the phone? It's all right, I just want to say hello to him on the radio. Yeah, he's there. What's his name? Martin. Hello, Martin. And what's your son's name for the podcast? John. Hi, John. Listening to the podcast, Sally's son. If he was icelandic, he'd be called John, Sally's son. No, he wouldn't. He'd be called John Martinson. John Martinson. Round of applause for Sally. Thank you. Thank you very much. Bon voyage. Safe journey. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Will the Internet ever get full? John is in Enfield. John, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, John. The men's trophy at Wimbledon. Yes, there's a pineapple on top of it. Is there really? A little gold pineapple? Are you sure it's a pineapple and not just something that looks like a pineapple? It is certainly a pineapple. Okay, I just want to know, you know, why is there a pineapple on top? What's the significance of that? Why is there a pineapple on top of the Wimbledon trophy? Well, yeah, it's a nice gold trophy with like engravings everywhere and you got a little miniature pineapple on top. Why not, though? I mean, what have you got against pineapples? Nothing. I was just wondering why if you were making trophies. If you're making trophies, you get a bit bored. Trophy. Why would you put a pineapple. Why not melon? No, not a melon. What then? A little tennis player, a gem or something. A jewel or a little tennis player. Oh, yeah. But not a men. Yeah, that'd be stupid. He sure it's a pineapple, mate? It's not. It definitely is a pineapple. Does the pineapple not play some role in heraldry? Isn't there. Isn't there a pineapple in coats of ours? It's got. There's a heraldry issue with a pineapple, isn't there? I haven't got clear. Well, I see what I can do. I see what I can do. If I can't find out for you, do you know why that will be? Because no one knows. No, it won't be that. Someone will know. Someone always knows. If I can't find out for you, it will because the Internet is full. Okay. All right. I thought you couldn't search on the Internet. No, not if it's full. Is that it? Yeah, that's all I've got. Okay, then. See you, John. Have a good day. And you, why is there a pineapple on top of the Wimbledon trophy? And can the Internet ever get full? Sam is in Twickenham. Sam, question or answer? I have a question, please, James. Carry on. So I was wondering why we cross our fingers? For good luck. It's Jesus in it. Jesus? Yeah. Sign of the cross. Died for our sins. Best thing that ever happened to humankind, Jesus dying for our sins. Therefore, the cross becomes a sign of good luck. Therefore, you do the sign of a cross when you pray, and therefore you cross your fingers when you want to bring yourself luck. Boom. First of all, crossing your fingers doesn't look like a cross. And second of all. Excuse me, what's in your fingers? What was that word you just used to describe what you did with your fingers? Yes, I see what you're doing there, James. Yes, but putting them across each other, it doesn't look like a crucifix. And also, it doesn't matter. The unluckiest thing that can happen to you. Yeah, well, you say that it was very good luck for humankind that Jesus decided to make that sacrifice on him. Look, this is the dogma, mate. This is. This is the doctrine. This isn't necessarily my belief. It's just a matter of fact. And crossing crosses, therefore, because it's like you do a sign of the cross, don't you? Good luck. You say a little prayer before you do something, Sam, and instead of having to say a little prayer, because you might not, you know, you might have lived in an era where that might have got you burned to death, for example. At the stake. So you cross your fingers as a secret prayer. And he's not arguing with me. When the fingers coming, he crosses his fingers like an actual cross. So why wouldn't you do that? Why would you just put the film. You fool. Yeah, but, you know, exorcism. There's no argument here. My answer is correct. There's no controversy. You cross your fingers. You're just feeling a bit silly because the answer was so obvious, aren't you? I think it's a great answer. I just hope it's wrong. Do you know why it's so great? Well, because you think it's true. Because it is. Right. Let's just see. Let's submit it. Let's submit my answer, Sam, to the ultimate test. Now let's just see what the gods of mystery are. Have deigned. Oh, there you go. Oh, how did I know that would happen? One nil to me. Twelve minutes after twelve. James is in Wandsworth. James, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. I was wondering. CPR, Annie or refutiani? There was a doll that everyone uses to learn CPR training. Why Annie? Why not? Because the instructor I had for the first day training, she told us some long, elaborate story and I've forgotten it in the long years since. And now I'm just really intrigued to find out that story again because I think there is something more deep than Annie. Just Annie being pictures around. So is this true? All CPR? I haven't done CPR for many moons since we had baby CPR training as part of our antenatal over a decade ago. They're all called Annie. Are they dolls that you practice your mouth to mouth resuscitation on? And you're sort of. Yeah, there's Resiani. Resiani. You've not. Reese. Annie. CPR. Annie. Really? Yeah. They're all called Annie? All of them? As far as I'm aware, yeah. And you want to know why? Yeah. Could be Jane, could have been anything. Could have been Doris. Exactly. But why Annie? Maybe it was based on a real human being. Is it? How realistic are these models? They're pretty realistic, aren't they? Yeah. I mean, that's just kind of what I was wondering. Really? No, I'm gonna try and find out for you. I'm just wondering who would know. Thank you. No. Cheers, James. Thank you. Zero 345-606-0973 I don't think that Sally's question was as silly as perhaps she thought it was when she suggested it might be. Can the Internet get full? I'd have thought. Presumably it's about storage and there must somehow be. I don't know. Anyway, you might. If you do, call me. Will the Internet. Could the Internet ever get full? And why is there a pineapple on top of the Wimbledon trophy? And why are all CPR dolls or models or whatever the correct term is called? Annie, if indeed they are, it's possible James might have got a bit carried away there. But if he hasn't, then the question needs an answer. It's coming up to 12:15. You're listening to James O'Brien's mystery out on LBC. If you can answer any of those questions, you know what to do. If you've got one of your own, then ring in with it. Just two words of caution. We don't like repetition. That's partly our fault. So if you get told by whoever answers the phone that we've dealt with that question relatively recently, you just have to politely accept their judgment and move along. But secondly, dullness takes quite a bit of time every Thursday to sort some of the wheat from the tariff. If it's unlikely, if you can't really imagine anyone else being that interested in the answer to the question that you want to ask in the nicest way possible, don't ask it, because otherwise it won't work. Do you see what I mean, James? There's an exit on a roundabout near me and I don't know where it leads. It's just no entry. Where does it lead? You see? No one else cares. I understand that you care. I wish there was some way I could help you, but I can't. So don't ring in with questions like that. It's 1215. This is LBC. 18 minutes after twelve is the time, if you could hear the conversation Caroline and I were just having about a caller. We can't remember whether we've dealt with this question before. I'm tempted to ask you. Do you. Does anyone rung in recently asking why they got an erect nipple after eating a curry? Does anyone else. Does that ring any bells with anyone? It was a bloke. Lest you think it needs a sort of warning. I don't know. All right, I'll put him on, then. Matthew's in Ricelli. Matthew, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Yes. Pinch punch. First day of the month. Yes. I woke up last Friday through my daughter. She pinched and punched me. And I thought, this is quite relevant because you were going to defer your show to last Friday, but it wasn't. Sorry about that. Yeah, you're right. So, yeah. Just wondered what the origin of that was. Where does it come from? Pinch punch, first day of the month. White rabbits. All of that. I like that. I can't believe we haven't done it before. But anyway, I can't remember the answer, so we'll do it again. So just the origins of the. How old is your daughter? 27, James. I wish she'd stopped punching me every. No, she's nine. Okay, that's. That's allowed. I like it. Does white rabbits. Is that reached rice? Lip, do you do white rabbits as a sort of way of insulating yourself against it? Never heard of it, no. So if you say. Because you can do it straight back to her after she's done it to you. Unless she says white rabbits. If she says white rabbits, then you can't do it back to her. I haven't. I haven't heard of that one and I won't tell her. No. Maybe it's just me. 20 minutes after twelve is a time, Matthew. Thank you, mate. Charles is in Battersea. Charles. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Some time ago, you recommended some books by Harlan Coburn. And there's one book called the woods. Yes. And in there they say a scream. The people that got murdered, the scream can last forever. Is that right? What do you mean? What if someone screams? Yeah. It just. It gets quieter and quieter, but at a molecular level. Does it just. It wouldn't just be a scream, it would be all sound, wouldn't it? But would it just keep going? Yeah. Well, and what's your qualifications? Everyone knows this, don't they? What do you think happens to it? Sound is a wave. Sounds are waves. And the wave never stops. It just gets bigger and thinner and bigger and thinner until it's almost nothing. But it's never actually nothing. Do you know the way to think about it? Just to get your brain around it? Imagine a thinker. So imagine a ball. Like a marble. A little. No, that's not good. Think of something else. Imagine a piece of chocolate, right? You got a piece of chocolate in your head. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Hmm. What sort of chocolate have you got in your head? It's like 70%, is it? Yep. Yeah. Quite a bit rich for my blood, mate. I find that a little bit bitter. But anyway. Now chop that piece of chocolate in half, right? Yeah. And eat half of it. Now chop it in half and eat half of it. Yeah. Now chop it in half and eat half of it. And now carry on doing that. Will you ever have nothing? It's getting smaller and smaller, but it's still precise. Will you ever have nothing if theoretically, you could carry on chopping that piece of chocolate? If I was eat. If I was eating the chocolate, no, but I think it was just gone forever. Yeah. Yeah. And that's what sound is like. Oh, okay. James, one other thing. I think you're brilliant and I think the work you do is amazing. And I think your dad would be very proud of you. Oh, sharp, mate. And thanks for that answer. Sharp. Seriously, it's Miss Chia. This isn't supposed to be the bits where it gets all emotional. I'll take the round of applause to mask my blushes. What a lovely thing to say. Thank you, Charles. Declan's in Caterham. Declan. Question or answer? So it's a question. Carry on. Basically, ever since I can remember, whenever I had spicy food, my left nipple just becomes erect. It's not just the left one, and it's even a slice of the spice. I've just, I don't know, a bit of peri sauce on my. My chicken at Nando's. It just. Yeah, straight away. How long does it take? Because I get the cheese sweat sometimes. I mean, there are physiological reactions to certain type of food. If I eat cheese, I sweat through the sort of top bits of my nose. I've never really understood why other people get it. But you get an erect nipple when you eat spicy food. Hey, mate, I get sweaty nose when I eat cheese. And you're calling me weird with your erect nipple every time you have a curry? Well, I just let people know I'm about. But, yeah, it happens within 3 seconds. Having something spicy. Just bing. Yeah. And it's, you know, it's quite pronounced. So if I wear, you know, a t shirt, it sticks right through. Only on one side, only on the left side. And are your nipples otherwise identical? Yeah, yeah. And it's all spy. I mean, chili, obviously, something hot spicy. But would you get it with garlic? No, not with garlic. It's got to have even the tiniest amount of spice. Even my mouth won't find it spicy. But what spices are we talking about? Chili, because it doesn't happen with turmeric and, I don't know, cardamom, does it? I feel. I know sometimes a soup's got a bit of a kick to it, so it's always a kick, though, because some spices don't have a kick. Spices have quite delicate flavors. So, like saffron probably doesn't give you an erect nipple, does it? No, no, it doesn't. So I think we're talking probably about chili. Yeah. Well, yeah. So why does Chili make Declan's left nipple stand to attention? Yeah. I shall find out for you, Declan. If there is an answer to your question, I shall find out for you. 24 minutes after twelve is the time. Okay. It's all here today. Spicy food and Declan's nipple. The pinch punch, first day of the month. Why is the CPR doll called Annie? Why does the Wimbledon trophy have a pineapple atop it? And is it in any way possible that the Internet could ever break or get full Jim's in Harrow. Jim, question or answer? It's an answer, Josh. Carry on, mate. The pineapple issue on top of the men's trophy. Nobody actually knows what it is, but. But on Wimbledon the other day when we had the rain, a lot of people say that it's actually a pine cone. And its origins are. It's a seafaring terminology that when the captains used to come home, they put pine cones on the tops of their, you know, on, you know, the driveways in a house, you'd have the two pillars. They put pine cones on there for the smell and that's where they say it came from. That's why there's a. So a pine cone would be used like an air freshener. Yes, because they've been at sea. But it's a pineapple, Jim. It's a pineapple, not a pine cone. There's dispute in this, James, and women said. Some people say it's a pineapple and it's the smell, or some people say it's the acre, it's the pine cone and that's why it was on top of the trunk. All right, stay there because I've got an alternative answer and I'm gonna have to. I know, it's exciting, isn't it? We've got Stuart inquired before you even start. Stay there. Jim, Matt's in Bristol. Matt, what have you got? Oh, no, that's a different one. No, sorry. How embarrassing. That's not. It's. What do you mean same? Well, we had someone else ringing in with exactly the same answer as Jim, so they were probably both watching Matt. I'll be right with you, mate. So it's almost a bit awkward, that. So nobody knows, but it's probably linked to origins. What? They don't know, but they say it's some. 50% say it's a pineapple, 50% say it's a pine code, but it comes from a. A naval. There's a naval tradition. When they came home, yeah, naval. And the captain normally was the umpire, you see, he would sit there and do the. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Mark. And Ipswich was saying pretty much the same thing, although he went down the pineapple and you're going down the pine cone route. But that's just a matter of opinion. Right. Yes. Get in there. Carry on. Well played, Jim. Well played indeed. 26 minutes after twelve is a time Matt is in Bristol. Matt, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Matt. So I wish I had the answer for the nipple because that one's fascinating. But actually what I've got is the answer for the Resussiani doll. Oh, yes. And basically the reason all the dolls are called resusciani is because there was an american guy whose daughter, I believe, drowned and she passed away. And had he known CPR, he would have been able to save her life. So he dedicated his life to producing these dolls, which now our sort of standard fare across the world. Wow. And the doll is named after his daughter? The doll is named after his daughter, indeed. Her name was Annie. Yeah. I think that's brilliant. Oh, I didn't ask what your qualifications were. So I used to be a first aid instructor in the military and it was one of the things that they used to tell us when they were teaching us stuff. Fair play. Beautifully played. I know you've already had your round of applause. In fact, I should have saved the Ray Liotta quote for that. Have you? A first aid instructor in the military. That's lovely. If you build, it will come moment. But Matt, you've covered yourself in glory. Congratulations. Thank you. Don't feel too bad about not knowing why Declan's nipple stands to attention every time he eats spicy food. Nobody's perfect. 28 minutes after twelve, Steve's in Maidstone. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Afternoon. Hello, mate. What is it? It's a silly question with a decent explanation, I think. Go on. Why don't horses fall over on concrete? How do you know they don't? I let horse out. I let a horse out the other day while I was driving. Yeah. And I think that. I think the rider panicked a little bit and she got the horse to go a bit quicker, got to a corner. And I really thought that the horse was going to go over because they took the corner quick. Now, essentially, isn't that like us running around with metal plates on our feet? Surely a horse would go around the corner like the opening scenes of Bambi. Oh, I see. What you mean, so why don't they slip over more? I mean, you're not suggesting that it's in. You're not suggesting that it's impossible for them to fall over, just that you're surprised it doesn't happen more often. More often. Because if we wore horseshoe, if you and I got some horseshoes stuck to the bottom of our trainers, we'd be like ice. We'd be like we were walking on ice. Exactly. Or just like bits of metal plate on the bottom of your shoes. Permanent ice. The answer is surface area. Actually, because of the weight of a horse on four relatively small. The surface area that's being exerted, the pressure that's being exerted on that small amount of surface area gives epic grip the way that a stiletto heel does. Well, I'm 20 stone, I fall over. Yeah, but you've got great big size 14ft, Steve, so your horse just has these tiny little hooves, and if you put a plate on the bottom of them, then the surface area is the size of the horseshoe. So the grip is incredible because the amount of weight being exerted on the horseshoe. So they're more likely to. They're more likely to fall over on grass than they are because the foot will sink slightly and the surface area will increase accordingly than they are on metalled roads. Okay, I've kind of made that up on the hoof, if you pardon the pun. But, um. I don't know. I'm not sure. All right, I'm not going to take a round of applause yet, but if I turn out to be right, I'll be sharing it with whoever is. I honestly. I honestly panicked when she hit the corner. I honestly thought that. I can see why. I can see why. Because I just got some new shoes resold and they're not even metal, they're just leather. But it's so shiny and smooth that I'm walking around like Robin Cousins half the time, just one thinking, yes. Which reminds me, I'm wearing them on the telly tonight, so if you want a laugh, you could tune in and see whether or not I managed to fall over in my new shoes. 12:30 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Simon Conway is here with the headlines. Conservative leadership candidate Andrea Leadson says, will the Internet ever get full? We know why there's a pineapple on top of the Wimbledon trophy. We know why the CPR doll is usually called Annie. What's the origin of the pinch punch? First day of the month. Rhyme beloved of children, why does Declan's left nipple stiffen whenever he eats chilis? And why don't horses fall over more on roads? Given that we'd find it really slippy to walk around with metal shoes on tarmac. Zero, 345-606-0973 Brian is in Windsor. Brian, question or answer? It's a question. Yes. I want to know, do birds actually ever go just for an old play for a fly just to play around or mess about, or are they always after something? Are they after food or they look at the mate, or they just go out for an old fly every now and again? Does a bird ever go for a fly for fun? Just for a bit of fun? Yeah. How would we ever know the answer to that if we can't talk to birds? God, sounds like my teenage years. I think if you could talk to birds. Well, no, they can't talk back, mate. That was more my point. Oh, okay. How could a bird. How would we ever know whether a bird. Have you look at your scientist bit from Brighton. Can he not ring in with an answer? Professor Howe? I don't know if he's really much of an expert on birds. Although, I don't know, I've heard rumors. The, um. The point would be this. If you. If you got a bird. Right, yeah. And you gave it all the food it could ever possibly need. Yes. And all the water it could ever possibly drink and all the bidding that it could ever possibly. That's the other thing you'd need to do. You'd need to sort out some bird action. Bird on bird, some bird on bird action. If you. So if you sorted out food and drink and bird on bird action, and then you just. Then you just waited to see if the bird ever just went for a little flutter just before we fly. Just themselves, you know, because it's a nice day. I don't know that we're going to get an answer to that, but I suspect they do because otherwise they just, you know, they're just. It's like human beings, isn't it? We walk even though we don't have to. If you manage to supply me with endless amounts of action, beer and food, I'd still want to go for the occasional walk, even though I had no need to, wouldn't I? Well, you know what I mean. Fluids, liquids. I don't know how you could know for sure that a bird was flying simply for fun. But if we can get an answer, we will. I promise you that. A lovely question. Thank you, Brian. 1235 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973. Is the number you need if you can answer any of these questions. Wayne's in mosey. Wayne, question or answer? I've got a question. Please. Shane, carry on, mate. If Teflon, or the coating known as Teflon is non stick, how do they stick it to the pan? Well, it's non stick in the sense that food doesn't stick to it, but it doesn't mean it doesn't stick to metal at very, very high temperatures. But then the coating itself is by nature nonstick. Yeah, to food. It's not nonstick to anything. I mean, you know, I could get some superglue and stick it to the side of your head, Wayne. It wouldn't. It wouldn't. It wouldn't non stick, would it? Have you ever seen anyone try and stick something other than food to a Teflon pan? That's not really what you rang in to ask. No, it's not. You rang in to ask how they get Teflon to stick to the side of the pan. And I say when. When they describe Teflon as non stick, it obviously doesn't mean non stick to pans. Otherwise you wouldn't have a Teflon pan in your cupboard in the first place. You prune. That is a very good point. Yeah, but how do they stick it to the pan? Heat. Just with heat at a temperature that you will never reach on your cooker. Fair enough. I'll let your answer. I'll take the. I'll take the round of applause. It's a bit like the superglue question. I'm going to. Yeah, it's not unlike the superglue question, which. Which, again, is, again, is to do with oxygen being introduced or something. I can't remember any. I've got the applause now. It doesn't matter. Thank you. Wayne Peters in East Greenstead. Peter, question or answer? Hi, James. I have an answer regarding the horses slipping on the concrete. Oh, yes. They actually wear road nails, so in each hoof they would actually have a one single pointed nail hammered into the shoe, which makes them grip into concrete. And horses are shoed every five to six weeks, and these road nails will generally last about that amount of time. But on the fourth, 5th or 6th week, you can find that they've worn right down or even snapped off, and then your horse will skid all over the place, especially going downhill hills. Oh, well, you live and learn and presumably race horses and the like won't have the nail in place. Actually, there's no downside to having a nail there is that. No, it's only for use on. Because horses have to hack out on roads a lot of the time. If you're on soft ground, you wouldn't need them. So they have an actual nail that anchors them to the. To the tarmac. Yes. It literally sticks out from under the shoe. Yeah, I get it. Makes sense. Like a spike. Yes. Like a runner spike. More grip. Um. Or a rug. Or a stud on the bottom of a rugby boot. What are your qualifications, Peter? Please say blacksmith. Please say blacksmith. What are your qualifications, Peter? Oh, I wanted a blacksmith. I don't know why, but that'll do. That's a beautiful answer. Round of applause. Round of applause. Round of applause, Peter. No, thank you. 1238 is the time. I've got a little bit of a problem with the switch world, which means there may be a pause between callers at the moment. It doesn't mean you'll get through, sadly, but you can grab Peter's phone line if you're super quick. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. What are we doing? Waiting for another call we've got. So line two is broken, which means I can only operate line one. We've got no phone lines coming in, which is great, because it's not like this is a phone in show that relies entirely on people ringing me, is it? No. Both our phone lines are currently suffering from problems, so I'll break the habit of a lifetime and have a look at some of the Twitter contributions to mystery hour so far. Ordinarily, Twitter is not allowed. CJ suggests birds do fly for fun because you can hear them singing while they fly. I don't know that that necessarily constitutes a definitive answer. And the ANI thing is. Stewards inquiry underway. The rhesus Annie was developed by a norwegian toymaker called Asmund Lehrdahl and doctor Peter Safar. It was named after one of the toy manufacturers existing toys. I might take a little bit of early travel news now, or at least a commercial break and try to find out why my phone's. Despite the fact that the phones have rung off the hook, I can't get the phones to ring in the studio. James O'Brien on LBC 1242 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Don't forget the holiday season is here. And every Sunday night from eight on LBC, Clive Bull and a panel of experts answer your questions in the travel app. There's more information at LBC Dot co dot UK. And you can also win a european break to your pick of destinations, including Paris, Rome or Athens. It's all thanks to Gatwick Express, who are helping you arrive without the stress. Oh, hallelujah. Just in the nick of time. The phones are working again. William is in Yeovil. Let's get back to mystery. William, question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Good man. Bring it on. It's for the pinch punch. First of the month. Oh, yeah? What's the origins of that? It is from in middle England when they believed in witches. And the pinch is actually a pinch of salt, because they thought that it weakened witches. So they give them a pinch of salt and then they punch them to banish them. And why on the first day of the month? I can't tell you that. What are your qualifications? My qualifications, actually was I came up with this question at the start of last month. I wanted to ring you with it, but I thought I'd never get on, so I was so disheartened, I had to investigate it myself. That's a lovely answer. I really like it. Your phone lines went down as well. So I thought, oh, I'm going to get screwed again. No, you did. You just got through. We had to reset the server. I don't know whether someone was actually conducting a live experiment in whether or not it's possible to fill up the Internet, but our servers went down in the studio. William, that's brilliant. A round of applause for William. All right, my life is complete now. What a time to be alive. Thank you, William. 1243 is the time. Steve's in Bristol. Steve, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Right, the Internet. Okay. No is the answer. If we run out of space for a very, very simple reason, that the cost of storage goes down periodically, and roughly, it doubles every 18 months or so. So the same amount of money. This is a lovely answer. Okay, so for the same amount of money out your pocket, you go and buy a hard drive or whatever, but basically, you can, in about 18 months, for the same money, you'll get virtually double the space. And that is. So that's an operational answer as to why it could never fill up. Theoretically, it's possible. Theoretically it's possible if storage is not increased, but obviously because the cost comes down almost like. No, I get that. I understand it. But the storage, I mean, it's finite in a sense, but it will never be pushed to its finite extreme because, well, we're back to my piece of chocolate, aren't we? That you never actually stop chopping in half. There'll always be more. Yeah. The one. The more important one was. Would you run out of actual addressing? That's the more important one. And that's already been addressed, so the panic on that can be over. I like your answer. The storage getting cheap. It's like the fellow that invented the microchip, isn't it, who said, every year it's going to shrink in size by pricing. Power goes up. Absolutely. And it's basically the reverse. So you bet you get more bang for your buck about every 18 months or so. Love it. Qualifications. Steve. I've been in it for too long. Everyone in it says that. Anyway, it's got you a round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. 1245 is the time. Are we taking travel news? We did or. No, we're carrying on. We're cracking on. We're pushing through, guys. We're going right through till Sheila Fogarty time. Donna is in Ockley. Question or answered? Donna. Hello. It is a question. The question is we have lamb chops, pork chops and veal chops. Why do we not have beef chops? Why don't you allow yourself a little chuckle, then? That's a little bit previous. I'm just hoping my son's listening because he's desperate to know the answer. Why do you have a pork chop? Well, it's. Isn't it? Isn't it because a pork chop and a lamb chop, they look like. Chop chop chops. They look like axes. What does a chop look like? A chop. Is it like. Like a little axe? No, it doesn't. What's the equivalent in beef? It's a rib. But why is it not called a chop? Because it's a ribbon. Because it's shaped. It's not, though. You never get a beef chop. A beef. You get a beef rib, but you never get a rib. Why do we not get a beef chop? Because they don't look like. Well, you can get a beef chop, actually. Yeah, but they're not called beef chops. Well, a t bone steak would be a beef chop. It's not called a beef chop. No, because it just isn't called a beef chop. It sounds a bit silly. Well, actually, that's often the answer to the. To the most perplexing mysteries of our time. Donagh in Ockley. Actually, you're a mother, you just mentioned your son. How many times have you said to him? Because I say so as an answer to a perfectly valid inquiry. Well, rub it. Rub. Wow. Because it is. Because it is a beef chop. We don't, because the beef is bigger. You don't need the rib lut. You can serve just the rib. If you want to include the riblet, it becomes a t bone steak, which is way bigger than a chop. Oh, I don't believe you. Can we have somebody that knows what they're talking about. Ringing and answer the question. Believe this. That's absolute mutiny in the ranks. All right, fine. I'll find with your beef chops. Okay. No, fine, okay. Why don't we have beef shops? Donna and Ockley not happy with a correct answer. She wants a different answer from a butcher, probably. 1247. Harry's in Essex. Harry. Question or answer? It's an answer to the birds. The birds? The birds ever fly just for fun? They do, yes. I've got my fly hawk for a living and quite often he goes pillar post. But every now and then he flies up, soars around and he'll fly up on top of the buildings and he's just having a laugh. He's not looking for. He's not looking for some action or some food or something like that. Or a lady whore. No, no, you see on the thermals, and then they'll come back down. So, yeah, you would, wouldn't you, mate? You just would. If you had wings, you'd be flying around all over the place, everywhere. You get your dreams. You ever flown in your dreams? We have had a flying dream. No, I get the odd flying dream, mate. I never want to wake up when I get a flying dream because it's so much fun flying. Why on earth would a bird not just fly for fun? Yeah. Qualifications, in fact. In fact, well, been doing folk, we've. Since I was a boy, so. And I'm sitting, just pulled over and I can see a buzzard sawing around above me now, so just over in the fields having all sorts of fun. Yeah. Buzzard. It's buzzing. It's a buzzing buzzard. It's not fun. Harry, don't go away yet. Give Harry a round of applause. So you turned your hobby into your livelihood. I was quite envious of people who've done that. What are the main gigs you do as a falcon? I've done a lot of fault folk read displays in schools, but my man control using hawks in London. So you do. You do Trafalgar Square, you mean. You mean pigeons? We're used to. We don't do it anyway, you know, I think I've seen you so about five years ago. Would you have been on that? That shift. Yeah, I used to go on the score all the time, but, yeah, we're not there anymore. All right. I didn't. I didn't mean to drag up any unpleasant memories. How you're still doing all right? You're still making a living? Yeah, trying to. Good man. 1249, this is pure radio to all. Every call on mystery hour today. How do you know that? Well, I actually. I am actually a falconer. I work with hawks. Professor Howell is here in Brighton. This is interesting. Question or answer, Professor Hal? It's an answer to the Teflon question, James. I already dealt with that. How did you deal with that? I just said, yeah. No, no, the question was, how does it stick to the pan? No, it said, if it's non stick, how does it stick to the pan? And I said, well, it's not non stick to pans. Well, there is a slightly more in depth answer if you'd like to hear it. Yeah, all right. Okay. In the old days, what they used to do is make the metal very, very rough and spray the Teflon on in the hope that the nooks and crannies in the metal would provide little hooks and crannies so the Teflon would stick, which is why you couldn't use a metal spatula on. Teflon didn't work very well. So what they do now is when they first spray the bare metal, they spray it with glue, with a tiny bit of teflon in and let it dry, and then they spray it with some more glue, with some more teflon in, and gradually the proportion of teflon goes up, so you get an increasing teflon to glue ratio, which allows it to be thicker and it sticks and it doesn't scratch, which is. You're right, a more detailed answer than mine, but mine, boiled down to teflon, would stick to glue. Therefore, when you describe it as non stick, you're making a category error. That explains the confusion behind your original question. And I was right as well, so I'm not giving you my round of applause. That's all right, James. Oh, come on. I'm not going to take it personally. I've got. I've got plenty of them, but I'm sharing. I'll share it with you. It's important to you and I respect that. Right now, I feel silly. It's all gone wrong, this. Who's supposed to be making you feel silly? No, no, we do that every week. So I don't like it back after three weeks. I don't like it this way around. I'm going to. I'm going to make you take the round of applause. It's reverse psychology. All right. And I'll take the round of applause. Yeah. I know you don't really want it, but take it. How do you like them apples, Hal? They're very nice, thank you. It's 1251. Andy's in Cheshire. Mandy, question or answer? Hi, James. First time caller, so I'm a bit nervous. Don't be. It's only me. What have you got? Question or answer? It's an answer. Bring it on. Well, I'm an ex butcher and the question was, why are chops from lambs called chops? I'm obviously from pork. Called pork chops. Yeah. It's because the kilo weight. A cow obviously is so much weight. Yeah. Therefore cutting through the flesh, when you get to the bone, it's so strong, you have to saw it. So therefore you get your fore rib and your brisket and all those sort of things with heavy bone at the front. Yeah. That's cut through. It's literally impossible with a Cleaver. So you have to saw it with a band saw or a shop saw. So a chop is called a chop because you chop it. Sorry? A chop is called a chop because you chop it and you can't chop beef. So it's not a beef chop. Exactly. So it goes back to what you answered to person four. Before it becomes a t bone steak or something like four rib as a rib, because you saw through, you don't chop. So really the answer is lamb chop is because you chop and a pork chop is because you chop. It's the obvious answer. Maybe you say it's obvious, mate. That is. That's a thing of beauty. That's one of my favorite answers of all time. I'm going to give you around. I'm going to give you two rounds of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you. Have a good day. Hang on, that's just one of them. Here's the other. Okay, there you go. Thank you very much. Beef chop. Lamb chop. Pork chop. Well played. 1252. Bruno is in Kingston. Bruno, question or answer? Hello. It's a question. Yes. Zombies. Right. Zombies. My good lady Deborah and I have been watching a lot of horror films. We wondered, why do zombies not eat each other? Mate, it's a fiction. I mean, I appreciate it's funny for you and your partner to chat about it, but it's fiction. Surely the nutritional content of a zombie is. It's not as funny as it seemed when you. Maybe Michelle's in Whitstable. Michelle, question or answer? I feel bad now. I feel bad now about that. But, bro, we got some serious answers to get through. I can't just indulge Bruno's comedy moments, can I, Michelle? No, not at all. Quite right. What's your question? It's eye color. Oh, yes. Yeah. I range, obviously from blue to dark brown. Yes. Now, there's a lovely orangey amber terracotta color that eagles have, tigers have. Why don't we get that one? Why can't humans have tiger eyes? Well, yes. I can't believe that I was just rude to Bruno to squeeze in your question. No, that color. You know, that lovely burnt Sienna, burnt orange. Because it's not. It's not. It's never. It's not in our genes. But they have. But they have blue eyes and orange brown eyes. Because it is in their genes. Yes. Will be more. I'm not just jeans. I just say jeans. Of course, you can leave it more than that. No, the eye color is genetically predetermined and that you don't have the option for the ones you've described. It's not even a mystery. But it's a bit, you know. That's a bit. I say, why aren't there any bourbon biscuits in my custard cream packet? Well, they just aren't because it's custard creams. Didn't like those. Anyway, I feel bad about Bruno. Can we get Bruno back on? Can we get Bruno back? Hang on. Michelle, stop talking. Can we get Bruno back? I feel bad. Did we keep his number? The zombie guy? Bruno with the zombies. I feel bad now. I was really rude to him. I hate it when I'm rude by accident. Michelle, I love it when I'm rude on purpose, but I hate being rude by accident, you know? I'm gonna do. Now. Yeah, I'm gonna be rude on purpose. That, madam, is a rubbish question. Absolute rubber. Why can't I have eyes like a tiger? Whatever your profession. No, no. You'll see. All right. No, the amber eyes. Like a tiger eyes. Eyes like a tiger. No. All right. Okay. Well, I'll leave it on the board. But it's dark. It's daft. It's daft. What about Declan's nipple? We're never going. We're wasting all this time making small talk with you, and Declan's nipple is probably stiffening at the sight of a chili as we speak. Bruno's in Kingston. Bruno, mate, I was a bit rude to you, and I feel bad. Can I apologize? Oh, of course. No problem at all. No, thank you. What? I was just going to say, my nipple gets hard when it's chilly. Yes, thank you very much indeed. Bruno, I'm glad we got you back for that. Professor Martin Smith is here. Is the professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex and the second professor of the day. Question or answer, Martin? It's an answer. Carry on. It's to the man who wanted to know whether sounds ever go. Why are both professors ringing in to challenge my brilliant answers? Because your analogy wasn't absolutely spot on. I don't deal in absolutely spot on. I deal in adequate, Martin. Well, but you also like precision and accuracy. I know I do. Go on. Well, the thing about sound is it won't travel very, very far because as you rightly say, it's a waveform. And to have a wave travelling in air, you need energy to make the air molecules bounce up and down and eventually the molecules are too heavy to. Okay. So there isn't enough energy to move them. Okay, so, yeah, I get that. So where would that be? I mean, long, long after the sound became inaudible. Oh, I mean, the energy literally does disappear to nothing. I don't know if the analogy with the chocolate might help. Yeah. If you keep biting your piece of chocolate until it's halved and smaller and smaller and smaller, eventually you do get to a single molecule and then when you've cut the molecule in half, you no longer have chocolate. Chocolate no longer exists. It's cut down to nothing. And it's not really a terribly good analogy because chocolate is a particle. And. Proud of that, mate. Sorry, I was really proud of that analogy. It was, it's. It was a little below your normal, extremely high standard. Round of applause then. 457 is the time. Brad's embarking. Brad. Yeah, you're right. Cometh the hour, cometh the man. Cometh the man. Yeah, I know you've been waiting for this one. I've been listening. I didn't really want a phone. I expected someone else to know the answer. What have you got? What it is? Yeah, what it is that when you eat spicy food or something that you enjoy or get you all excited, what happens is that your body obviously produces certain hormones, right? And these hormones are linked to excitement and, you know, like the fruit of actually doing something that you enjoy. So I'm assuming that the bloke likes spicy food. Yeah. Now, these hormones are also linked to the hormones that are boosted, boosted in massive numbers as well when you are sexually aroused. Okay. Now, obviously you can't get too sexually attracted to a chilli or a curry. Speak for yourself. You can. Yeah. Well, yeah, it depends, obviously. I mean, I love a foul, you know, get some going. But. So he's, he's genuinely reacting in a state. Why only his left nipple, then? I do not have the answer for that question. But obviously you're not going to get the same amount of hormones, arousal hormones boosted from eating a curry, then you are from obviously being sexually aroused. So you only get a limited amount, but in some circumstances it can be enough to cause, you know, certain parts of your body to become aroused. A turgid nipple, we should have said. Yeah. And I suppose you know why only the left one? Who knows. But it is about sexual. That's lovely. Have a round of applause. Thank you very much, Brad. That's it for another week. Mystery. L will return next Thursday. I'll be back tomorrow morning from ten. The next for sure here belongs to Sheila Fogarty. I had my head in my hands for the last 30 seconds of that program. Thank you very much, James. Now from three this afternoon, the head of the British Fertility Society says we should tell children about protecting their fertility from an early age. Did you? Would you? From two. Andrea Lettin is coming in for a lot of flak over her cv, amid claims that she, at the very least, exaggerated her experience. When does embellishing a CV become plain lying? After the news. Yes, mistakes were made, but I'd do it again. Is essentially Tony Blair's response to Chilcott. Removing Saddam spared Iraq from the fate of Syria. He says a legitimate elected government is in power in Iraq. The flip side is that military and political cock up after defeating Saddam left the door wide open for ISIS to walk straight in and the iraqi people go on suffering.