What came first, the colour orange or the fruit orange?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien, three minutes after twelve. I mean, that. That is proper homework. I want to return to this subject tomorrow. Two men accused of almost identical crimes and both caught confessing to them on tape. One of them's in rehab with his career in tatters, one of them still in the White House and coming here on a state visit. Why aren't they both in jail? That's my starter for ten, possibly even my starter at ten tomorrow. But that's another day. Today we turn our attention to mystery hour, our weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfy God. The phones are full already. She's getting very tiring, this, honestly. I almost look back fondly on the days when I glanced down at the switchboard and wonder how the hell I was going to get to the next junction uninterrupted. I've got one phone line free. Also, I've got a new producer. Beth, meet Beth. Hello, Beth. Welcome. And she is now charged, of course, with knowing what we've done before. Despite the fact that she hasn't worked on the program for the best part of two years, it does mean that you have to be on your toes. Don't ring in if you are asking a question that someone else asked before on a day that you weren't listening. Have we got that clear? So, before you started listening to the program, make sure you don't repeat something that happened then. All right? So the way this works, we just get a crack on and then you can work out how it works. And I won't bore you with the rubric and the fine detail. Couple of rules. Don't be boring. That generally holds true for all 15 hours of our time together. Plenty of opportunities for boring people to be heard on the radio, just not on this show. And, well, press company, it's accepted and repetition, but that's kind of our lookout. And we're on to a fourth producer now. Since mystery House started, they keep getting promoted. Actually, that's not true. One of my former producers is now a. What's the word for a layperson that does weddings? So one went off to produce the breakfast show at Capital Radio. One's just been promoted into the management team here at LBC, and the one before that went off to be a sort of humanist minister after her maternity leave. And she's absolutely lovely. Actually, if I was ever looking for a humanist minister, I couldn't recommend her heartily enough. So it's, you know, strange. It's a strange stepping stone on career paths. And it's the one that Beth has landed on this week, so be gentle with her. She doesn't know whether or not we've had these questions before. And I will deal with the issue of boringness. Boring people being put through. Zero. 345-606-0973 is a number you will only hear me utter when I have a phone line free. That sounded like it should have had a rhyme on the end of it, didn't it? You should only hear me utter when I need another nutter on 034-56-7609 so go with it. Andy's in Kilkenny. Andy, question or answer more? Afternoon, James. Yes, it's a question, please. Good man. Carry on. Well, this is following on from a couple of weeks ago when you had a question from a man asking about irons, and it turned from what had the makings of a boring question into a really fascinating answer with a really interesting moment of beauty. Because for people who weren't listening, an actual iron designer rang in. Yeah. Which is amazing. I'm hoping that someone similarly qualified could answer this. I've just come back from, actually, my honeymoon in Mexico. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Where did you go? Whereabouts in Mexico? Went to. Went to Cancun. Very, very smart place, Cancun. Nice hotel. Lovely hotel, all inclusive, which was actually nice. I'm not a fan of all Inc, but it was lovely. You can swim up to the bar. You didn't stay at the Moon Palace Hotel, did you? No, we stay at a place called the Royal Sands, which was lovely. I'm glad you had a ball. And what have you come back from your honeymoon puzzling over. And because I could probably have. This is bothering me the whole time I was there. Toilet seats. Oh, quite a romantic trip then, was it? Yeah. Now, I hope we can kind of get through this without being unsavory. Well, let's find out. Yeah. Well, I'm wondering why in this country, in most places, I think european toilet seats are a loop. They're a continuous oval, whereas I noticed in Mexico, and I think in the States as well, they have a gap at the front. Like a horseshoe. Yes. I wonder, what is the design reason for that gap? Oh, it's. It's obvious, isn't it? Don't know. How long have you been married? Just a couple of weeks. Yes. Did you co have it prior to this. This happy chapter? You did, yes. And are you ever told off by your inner Maratha? I'm somewhat traditionally presuming you're married to a woman. Of course, it's not necessarily the case, but if you are presuming you are. Well, if you're alluding to what I think you're alluding to. I am. Surely. Surely the chances of, shall we say, sprinkle interfering with the toilets tinkle? Yes. That gap only precludes that happening. For three inches of that gap, or four inches of that gap, it's still an improvement on a gapless scenario, I suppose. But if it's such a good idea, and if it does preclude such tinkle, then why don't toilet seats in this country have gaps? Because of the feminist conspiracy designed to emasculate us all and leave us under the jack boot of their world domination plans. Do you know what I think? This. You know, they. They always tell us that we have to put this seat down when we're finished. Well, why don't they just lift it up when they're finished? Being ridiculous. But I think clearly you're not going to sanction the idea of me getting a round of applause for this. So we do know the specific. Yeah, you're right. We need it. We need a loose seat designer. Yes, but someone who's worked in several territories. So you can make a valid academic comparison between the gapless, loose seat, if you will, and the. Well, the gapped one. But it's got. It's got to be my. It's got to be my answer, so that you never have to push. And is it a mobile one? You can actually lift it up completely, can't you? Yeah. So it's still hinged. Yes, but it's got to be my answer. Andy, if you lift it up, then it doesn't matter if you've got a gap or not, you're not going to tinkle. It removes the potential. We'll find out. But if it's not that, then I'll give you the money myself. Andy, congratulations again on your. On your nuptials. I promise not to tell your new wife that this is the thing that was at the forefront of your mind when you returned from your honeymoon. Your secret is safe with me. Mike is in West Hampstead. Mike, question or answer? Question, please, James. I'm just glancing at the piece of paper I doodle on while I do the program, and I've just drawn about six different types of toilet seat. Anyway, what can I help you with? Well, nothing quite as unsavory as that, I suppose. But I was walking through Hyde park the other day, just taking the air. It was quite nice. Yes, and I came across a sort of gatekeepers lodge, as you kind of tend to see in a lot of parks. And I was just wondering, does anyone actually live in those kind of houses permanently? Describe it to me. How big was it? Pretty small. Kind of like a little cottage. It was just by the serpentine. I'm just trying to think where you are because that's probably a storage facility. It's more likely to have sort of lawnmowers in it and things like that. But there are. There are lodges because my favorite, the one I'd like to live in one day, is smack in the middle of Soho Square in London. And it's tiny. Oh, I know that one. Yeah, tiny, tiny, tiny. But I wonder. I'm gonna live upstairs all on my own in that little hobbit house in the middle of Soho Square. But when I go to Richmond park, there are massive lodges that were obviously built for kind of aristocrats and mistresses of monarchs, and they're now owned by plutocrats and russian billionaires. The one I doubt without seeing, white Lodge in Richmond park. Yeah. But sometimes their storage facility is disguised as dwellings and sometimes they're dwellings. So my local park in Chiswick has a house in it that I presume is lived in by somebody who works on the grounds or has some sort of association with the house. But specifically, it's hard to say. Some people do. Some lodges are inhabited and some little ones probably aren't lodges at all. Is that a definitive answer? Well, it is, unless you want me to get you a specific answer about the one you saw in the serpentine, if that would be possible. That would be great, but I just. Yeah, really like to know, does anyone really bed down for the night in so little? There's a little lodge next to the serpentine in Kensington Gardens, Hyde park. Does anyone live in it? Yes. You're on. I like it because you're so polite. I'm going to let you go. I'm going to let you have that supplementary. Oh, lovely. Thanks very much, James. You're very welcome. Eleven minutes after twelve. Did I ever tell you about the crayfish in the serpentine? No. I'll save that delight for another day. Jay is in Wembley. Jay, question or answer? Hi there, James. It's a question for you. Carry on. I was wondering, do astronauts or the people working on the International Space Station get to vote in elections? That's a very good question. Is it a consideration that you're, you know, you're thinking, do I really want to be an astronaut? In case I'm not allowed to vote? Is that why you're asking? No, it's because, like, these astronauts, they're obviously, like, really intelligent, so I can't ever see them voting for someone like Trump. Don't be silly. Don't be so sneering and condescending. Yeah. So I just wanted to see, like, are people in space allowed to vote? Yep. I mean, it's more the logistics. Obviously, they're allowed to, but how would they? I mean, you can't really do a postal vote, that's the thing. And also, like, if they did it online, then it might set a precedent for voting online for everyone else. I don't think we need to worry about any electoral practice, precedents being set by behaviour on the International Space Station. I'm fairly sure that's always going to be such a small minority that its experiences do not define the experience of the majority. But in the simplistic, simplest form, your question is a cracker. Do people in space vote? Yes. All right, thank you, Jay. Do people in space vote? Does anyone live in that little lodge in Hyde park? Next, the serpentine. And why do some foreign toilet seats have a gap at the front? A sort of horseshoe, if you will? Ron is in Wormley in Hertfordshire. Ron, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Ron, I'd like to know what the term dog tag means as regards id things around soldiers necks, because somebody the other week found 16,000 of them. They were buried. So where does the term dog tag come from? Well, I have a problem here, Ron. Good, go on. And the problem is that when I mock a questioner for asking a question that seems to me to be quite incredibly easy to answer, four or five minutes later, someone often rings in to make me feel like a fool. Yeah, I know. Yeah. But I never learn. I never, ever learn. Well, yes, I do. I think. I think what you'll find is that they were tags that were put on dogs. And then when we needed some form of identifying dead bodies in the military, we decided to employ similar tags. And someone pointed out the similarity with the tags that we put on dogs ago. They were henceforth known as dog tags. Well, that doesn't sound very nice. Doesn't it? Well, it's not about niceness, mate. This is war. A soldier is not a dog, is it? No, but it's a dog tag. It's a question you asked. So do you have a dog, Ron? Yes, I do. Does it have a tag? Yes, it does. I see. And if you took it off the dog and put it around your own neck. Would it still be a dog tag? No. No. It would, though. It would be a dog tag. Of course it wouldn't. It be. It would be my tag. It would be. It would not be a wrong tag. It would be a dog tag. It'll be human tag or a soldier's tag. And then they wouldn't know what you meant by that because if it's just been invented, it's never been worn by humans before and you say, get me a human tag, they're going to go, what the hell is a human tag? It's over there. It looks just like the dog tags. Well, why didn't you call it a dog tag, then? I can't accept this as an answer. You are having a bath, aren't you? I wish I was. This is Occam's razor in action. What? All right, you give me your theory, then, clever clogs. No, come on. Somebody must. Come on, you're making me giggle. I put money on this not being one of those ones where I have to eat humble pie five minutes later. Obviously, they're called dog tags because they're just like dog tags, but now they're on humans. Yeah, but it's not. We're not dogs, are we? We. It's not. No. There must be some other do g stand for something, you know? Oh, please, God, no, don't let that be. Please let it be. Don't let it be. Don't let it be. Please don't let it be that. Oh, yeah. Oh, no. All right, well, okay. But you don't have to pay any penance. You'll be tucked up in bed by the time I'm proved right. Or you'll be having a. You'll be having a cup of tea and I'll be here exposed to hundreds of thousands of people looking stupid, while you're just sort of chuckling at home. If I'm wrong. If you're wrong, you get off scot free. Oh, I look forward to this. I really do. Thank you, James. I appreciate it. You're very welcome, Ron. I appreciate your kindness. It's 16 minutes after twelve. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's 21 minutes after twelve. Back to mystery, our imminently. But we've been a bit Brexit light today and I know how much you hate it when I don't bang on about Brexit endlessly. I think it might have peaked. I appreciate that. That's a very, very dangerous thing to suggest that the absolute insanity may have reached critical mass. But John Redwood's latest intervention on the issue is a thing of such unimpeachable beauty that it deserves to be shared immediately with you. The chancellor must get to the treasury to have more realistic, optimistic forecasts and to find the money for a successful economy post Brexit. Just let those words sink in. The chancellor must get the treasury to have more realistic, optimistic forecasts and to find the money for a successful economy post Brexit. So what you'd call a traditionalist Tory from very much the right wing of the party, has apparently been under the impression for his entire political career that there's a bunch of money in the treasury that the chancellor just hasn't found yet. Just a question of looking in the right places. Yeah, go on, then. Most obviously, perhaps down the back of the sofas. And secondly, if your bank manager tells you your bank balance and you don't like the sound of it, then you are now charged with telling him to plumbing. Well, cheer up and be a bit more optimistic. And this is someone. Remember, these people told us we would be better off, our lives would be improved, our economy would be booming, and we'd have 350 million quid a week for the NHS. Now, John Redwood today has just tweeted that the chancellor must get the treasury to have more realistic, optimistic forecasts and to find the money for a successful economy post Brexit. Whether or not he's aware of this, you should be. The Office of Budgetary Responsibility has just reported that the economic forecasts for the last seven or eight years have been overly optimistic. It's kind of wiped out the money that Philip Hammond was hoping to put to one side to cushion the blow of Brexit. That's the same Brexit that was supposed to make us all better off and improve the british economy. So, faced with the incontrovertible truth that things are looking pretty ropey, John Redwood has decided that the answer is optimism. Does it work on cash points? We need to get optimism buttons put on cash points on ATM. So you put your card in, you put in your pin. The cameras are on, aren't they? I just thought, just do my pin. And then I thought, no, someone might be able to work it out. So you put your card in, you do your pin. That's so not my pin. You put your pin in and then you balance, you go, check balance. It comes up 86 quid. Nah. Boom. Redwood, please. Optimism. 87 quid. No more redwood. Optimism, please. I need a button on my. On my cash point. I'd keep pressing it until ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. 100 pounds. Yes, that's what we need. The bank needs to be more optimistic and realistic and to find the money for a successful slap up feed with all the trimmings. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've reached peak Brexit with that tweet. But it's quite possible that something even matter will be along in the next three minutes. 24 minutes after twelve is the time. Alexa is in Chiswick. Question or answer, Alexa, answer. Carry on. I had the pleasure of living for a little bit and working in new law Chyde parks. Did you really? I did. Which one is that? That's not the one that the question was asking. I believe it is the one that is close to the serpentine. It's near the police station. Oh, my God. And we did have some neighbors that were near the gate. How did you live in it? How did you secure tenancy of that place? Well, not permanently. I was working. Squatting? No, I wish. I was working with a gentleman that was in charge of the new bridge theatre in London and he lived there with his wife, who worked for the park services. So we had someone ring in asking whether or not we could establish if a specific building in a specific park in a specific city, London was inhabited or not. And you have rung in to tell me that you actually lived there for a while. I stayed a couple nights and had gin and tonics at the serpentine at midnight and it was amazing. How often do you listen to this program? Most every day. Are you familiar with Ray Liotta? Oh, yes, yes, yes, you may. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. That's a thing of beauty. No, thank you for that. You get one of these as well. That's fantastic, Alexa. Brilliant stuff. Brilliant stuff. 26 minutes after twelve, Neil is in Cheltenham. Neil, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So we had Vikings. We did. Saxons and Victorians in 2000 years time, what are we going to be referred to as? British? Have a great day. Michael's in Marlowe. Michael, question or answer? It's a question. James, was that unfair with the last fellow or was that was a bit. Absolutely bang on. Was it worth it for the comedy value? Worth it for the comedy value. I did chuckle mind. There you go, Neil, no hard feelings. Question or answer, Michael. It's a question. Yes. Are dogs handed? As in, are they. Have they got a preference to their left side or their right side? Because I've noticed with my dog when he pees. Yes. That invariably, Cox is right leg. Well, mine, Cox, are left leg. So is that our answer? I don't know, but do. What I'm saying is, are they handy? But, I mean, I know what you're saying, but if you've got one that goes right and I've got one that goes left, that would suggest that they are, wouldn't it? Possibly. Possibly. But surely there's somebody out there with a more definitive answer than a guest. Doesn't it also depend on the direction that they're traveling in and where the lamppost is? Because my dog will turn around. Clever clogs. Yeah, I like it. Mine has only recently started doing this. Do you know what she did previously? Gone. She almost did a handstand. It was quite bizarre. Have you? She's a tiny little thing. For some odd reason, it happened more when we're by the river than when we were in the park. But she'd start sort of. Sometimes it was almost like she'd go all the way over. So obviously I'm trying to film it to make millions on YouTube, but she kind of left. She kind of cocked both legs and supported herself on her front paws for a while, but she's over that. Yeah. Little dogs do that all the time. Do they? Yeah. I'm new to this dog. More likely that is. Yeah, we'll find out. There was a time when this question wouldn't have got through. Because now you're a dog person. Yes. Well, no, let's not get carried away. I'm not a dog person, but I'm no longer dog phobic. Absolutely. He's right, as well. You know. Did I have a ban on that? We used to have a ban on people called Colin. God, we were rude in our youth, weren't we? Sam is in Liverpool. Sam, question or answer? I hopefully have an answer for you, James. I know I have an answer for you. That's the spirit. Right on. It's the space voting question. Oh, yeah. Can you vote in space? So since the late nineties, Americans have been allowed to vote in space. How do they do it? By email? Yeah. Yeah. There was a gentleman, I've forgotten his name, but he's from Houston. He voted in quite small elections, actually. They were just over local council issues. But his wife was one of the higher ups in NASA. She basically pushed for him to be able to vote and so he was allowed to. And now they are allowed to vote via email, send an encrypted email or a PDF or something like that. And Bob's your uncle, something like that. And with our own astronauts, if someone like Tim Pete wanted to vote, he could just get his wife to do it as proxy. You could do a proxy vote as well. So it was a nice question, but it was one of those questions that's actually probably the answer is a bit duller than the question. Well, in a way. No, no, no, mate. No, mate, mate. No, I didn't mean it like that. It came out wrong because it's a really good answer, but it doesn't involve anything too. I mean, we should probably have worked out that when I said a postal vote might be tricky and thought I was being all hilarious, obviously anyone with a slightly quicker brain would have gone, yeah, no one sends letters anymore, mate. It's all about email. Oh, yeah, they've got email on spaceships, haven't they? Of course, in some parts of the world, if you're a cosmonaut, you wouldn't be allowed to vote, but, well, you would as long as you voted for Vladimir. Yeah, exactly. Round of applause for Sam is the time. Simon Conway's here with the headlines. History hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three 4560-609-7325 is the time. Why do foreign toilet seats come in a horseshoed shape? And why dog tags called dog tags? And do dogs, when they go to the toilet, do they have a left leg and a right leg in the way that humans are right handed and left handed? There's a bit of dispute about whether or not my dog does what I said she does, because female dogs are supposed to squat. She squats as well, but when she's not squatting, I mean, if I had to pick a leg that is likely to be heading skywards when she does her business, it would be the left leg she does sometimes, but not always. God, what have I turned into? 25 to one is the time Ryan is in the new forest. Question or answer, Ryan, answer. Go on, then. I think it's because when a gentleman would sit down on the toilet, it just means that there's no chance of any of his private parts touching the seat on the way down. It's pure hygiene. You're speculating, though. I am speculating, but I think it's just common sense. It's not, though, is it? Is it not? No. I mean. Well, I mean, how could it be more hygienic to touch the bowl where all the gubbins goes than it is to just touch the seat that sits atop it because you. Well, you got a great point there, actually. Fair enough. Thanks, Ron. Yeah. Smile. They pay me the big bucks. Nick's in fleet. Nick. Question or answer? Answer. Toilet seats. All right. Have you got qualifications or are you just thinking out loud? Right. I'm going to caveat this by saying I don't have a qualification, but to me, my. Seems a bit more logical than yours and the guy that just spoke. Okay, fighting talk. I believe it's simply to give women room to wipe. Okay, that'll do. No, that'll do. That'll do. Like, I mean, we can all. We can also. Why just women? Because men don't want. They do. They're front. Well, still. I mean, you still reach in the same. No, you lean forward when you wipe the other foot. Okay. Okay. Okay. You're right. That is a little indelicate. In the absence of any qualifications, I don't think I can give you a round of applause. But I will if some. It's surely more logical than what you suggested, isn't it? No chance. Well, I suggest is a genius. Of course. It eliminates. It eliminates sprinkle factor 1237. You could. You might. Maybe you're onto something and then you're left with the question of why it only happens in some countries and not all countries. Kitty is in stains. Kitty, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's a toilet seat. It is for women. It's not for men. It's exactly what your last caller said. Qualifications. Boyfriend owned a plumbing and heating supplies company and I asked him. That's quite strong. Not recently. I asked him years ago. And it's because you will find them in this country in public toilets. Because that's why. So the women have a nice little area to, you know. So. Because I suppose hotel rooms and the like are unisex, aren't they? Exactly. That's why he would have seen it for the first time there. If he was a woman, he'd have been unshocked by it. Would he? So were all the women listening to this program now going, why do they think that we. I've seen loads of those. They're in every country. It's a female. Is that right? Exactly. So I owe the last fella an apology. Yeah, probably. Especially because I'm about to give him. Give you his round of applause. Oof. Okay. Glad we did that. 1238 is the time. Elaine is in Aldershot. Elaine, question or answer? Hi, James. Hi. It's a question. Carry on. Okay, question. It's from my daughter, Katie. But anyway, oh, yeah. She wants to know why in algebra is it is the unknown known as x? Because there's 26 letters in the Alphabet and X has already got a job, isn't it? It's a multiplier and used. So why is x used as the unknown? I like that. Yeah. Well done, Katie. That was her question. I have a feeling that it's. No, it's not happening. I've got a feeling that it actually means something and it's not the same as the multiplier, which is to lines crossing. The x that we use in algebra is two curves meeting really, isn't it? Okay, so it's the arabic word for I don't know, could be. I tried to answer it by saying, I think it's x because a person that was unknown or couldn't write would put an x. Yes, it could be that. I don't know. That's answering my own question. Yeah, well, we need someone to go full on definitive on this, because I don't think our speculations, our amateurish speculations are going to cut any mustard, are they? I shall put it on the board for Katie. Why? Why in algebra is the missing number always represented by an x? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need also? Still looking for. Few of you think I was a bit mean to Neil and that when he mentioned vikings, he didn't mean it in terms of where people came from, but the era in which they lived. In which case, I suppose the answer would have been, will be the second Elizabethans. But, um. But, yeah, I'm sorry, Neil, if I was a little brusque with you. We've done that one and we have. So. Dog tags. Why are dog tags called dog tags? And do dogs favor one side in the same way that humans do, left and right? No more dog questions, Beth, please, it's enough dog questions. All right, no more dog questions. Jenny's in Leicester. Jenny, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Jenny. Right, okay. There was a time when oranges were naturally green. What was that? There's also. There was. You can't just come on with a sweeping statement like that. When, when was this time when oranges were green? Um, I think it's to do with something about the, um, the, the temperament of the country that they were, grew in, um, or something like that. And, and, um. I think the. I think you're making this up, madam. You've just fallen apart like a cheap suit at the first sign of scrutiny. All right, I'll stop then. Are you sure. When we're. Orange is green. I think it was. I'm sure it's to do with the temperance countries that they were originally growing. Before we started to bring them more local. All right. Okay. I mean, we'll put that on the board. Green oranges. So what's the question? Okay. There was also a time when the orange colour didn't exist. And it was actually to describe something that was we'd now call orange. It would be red, yellow. So my question is, what came first, the color or the fruit? Yeah, I like it. I. Yeah, I do like that, actually. Orange. William of orange. Orange. What came first, the color or the fruit? Zero. 3456-066-0973 I think, yeah, green oranges would be just unripe, won't they? I think the more orange they are, that's when they start to go over. Yeah, no, you're right. So good. Yeah, but I thought you were describing a day when an orange never went orange. So what you're describing is it's still going to go orange eventually, but they're green for quite a long time. You can eat green oranges and they're nice. They're ripe, but they're not. So orange is a sign of. We produce them to a point that they're orange sooner because that's the color we like them to be. Very good color. Psychologically, very calming color. If you're, you know, hospitals, you should always buy orange flowers. Did you know that? They're what? You should always buy orange flowers. When you're taking flowers to someone in a hospital. It's a very calming color. It's nice to have a lot of orange around you, Soothe. You can't. I don't think you're allowed to take flowers into most hospitals. No, you're probably not, actually. Well, okay. If you ever become a buddhist monk, wear orange robes. There you go. That one still works, doesn't it? I think. So what came first, the orange or the egg? Zero. 345-606-0973 Robert is in Wrexham. Robert, question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please. Hello, Robert. Bring it on. Checkered flags. Yes. Do you have a checkered flag to finish a race? Because you have essentially green to start. Yes. Driving under caution. Red stop the race. The traffic light system. So why a black and white check to finish a race? It's because it used to be on the tarmac. No. You're not having that, are you? No, I'm not. No. Fair enough. It's most interesting in the world. It's just I've been wondering it since Sunday. And rather than google it, I thought I'd phone up mystery. Well, there you go. That's the whole point. That's why we're here. And now you've, you know, you've. You've injected excitement into your day that would otherwise have been absent if you're just sitting there, tapping away, looking for an answer on the computer. And of course, you were thinking it on Sunday after Lewis Hamilton's famous victory. Yes. Okay. Yeah. Why? Check it. I like that, mate. Don't do your own question down, Robert. It's a nice question. You need a bit of the John Redwoods, mate. You need to be more optimistic. If you think your question is really boring, just press the redwood button until you think it's interesting. And I'll sing the welsh national anthem. It's not get carried away. Zero. 345-606-0973 checkered flags. Why does the end of a race get signified by a checkered flag? Why are dog tags called dog tags? And do dogs favor one side in the same way that humans do? Edward is in Dartford, in Kent. Oh, and also, why do we use that symbol? See, I think I'm going to have to say that symbol that looks like an x. Algebra, to denote the unknown quantity. I don't think it is the x from the Alphabet. That might be part of the answer, but we'll find out. Edwards in Dartford. Edward, question or answer? Answer, my cocker. Carry. Carry on. I'm cornish, I can't help it. Imagine going into certain bars in Soho and call in the barker. Can I have a drink after room? Just looks at you. He's doing his own routine now. I'm enjoying it. Edward, can you remember why you rang in? Just about. I had to write it down. Come on. Right. As far as I can recall, being an amateur historian, they go as far back as the roman days. They would stamp out on a lead disc which had a leather rope round it, and new recruits information. Just basic stuff. Then when he took his oath of allegiance, after three months, he got a different one with more information. But the thing was, those tags resembled animal registration discs. Animal tags. And they get cut down to dog tags. Yeah. So someone deserves a round of applause. And it ain't me. It's somebody who was on the phone saying they were dog tags. That was me. Yeah, you take your round of applause. I've got millions, mate. You don't. You want one? Well, I'll share one with you. I've got cupboards full of them. At home. Like I said, I'll share one with you. There we go. This is the way forward. You were right. Bless you. Qualifications? Amateur historian. Yep, that'll do. How was it for you? I can't say. The wife's not yet. 1245 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three, four, five, six. Zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three. Ten to one is the time. Questions still in need of answers, mostly about dogs, checkered flags and the symbol x in algebra. Mo's in edgeware. Mo. Question or answer? Oh, and oranges. Go on. Moving. Well, I have a question, but I've since got an answer. But whatever happens, I want to clap because I'm pretty jealous of the amount of claps you get. And you're too clever. And so I want to clap because I'm jealous. You don't get claps just because you want one, mate. But I really want one. Well, let's see what you. Let me hear your question. If it's the best question I've ever heard, I'll give you half a round of applause, okay? Okay. Okay. That's exciting. Okay, so my question is, if it's zero degrees outside today, what will it be tomorrow if it's twice as cold? Oh, I do. You're not getting a round of applause, so let's park that now. But I like the question. What do you mean, I'm not getting a round of applause? Okay, what about my. What about my answer, though? No, you're not allowed to do that. You're only. You can only come on with the reason that you've rung in with. We have to operate some form of quality control, otherwise it'll just turn into anarchy. So you. Twice as Co. Is that. Yeah. That is a measurable thing. Because if it was two degrees and it's twice as hot, you'd say it'd be four degrees. You can't. Times zero, because everything multiplied by zero is zero. So, twice as cold. Yeah. Okay, well, I suppose you just plot it on a different scale, wouldn't you? So you just shift. Shift from. From centigrade. You just give it a plus ten, so that actually naught becomes plus ten, therefore twice as cold as what it is now would be. -20 no. Does that work? I don't know that it does. Listen, mo, you've got to stop it with. No, all right? Seriously, these rules are cast in bronze. I like the question. Don't spoil it. If it's zero degrees today and tomorrow it's twice as cold as today. What temperature is it tomorrow? Zero. 345-606-0973 Max is in here. The green. Max. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Max. Oranges or colour? The orange came first, did it? Colour came second. We say an orange, we do. But actually it was an orange in Elizabethan. Oh, leave it out. I wasn't born yesterday. An orange. An orange. It came from Spain. Rubbish. It was not called an orange, it was called an orange. Noranges and apples. No, no, no, an apple comes from Persia. Oranges come originally from the Mediterranean. He knows this stuff. I'll be quiet. Carry on, mate. And one of the reasons, I mean, you look at people with red hair and you'd say, they've got orange hair, they haven't got red hair. But until the orange came along, people used to be called red haired because that was the only word they really had for orange. It was a type of red. And the woman got it wrong as far as the color of the oranges was concerned, being green. The Dutch originally bred their carrots to be orange. They used to be purple. They bred them. I know all that. Don't overcomplicate the issue. Because they were. Because oranges were green. A green orange is perfectly edible. But then the carrot thing is true, but not relevant to this. Well, it is, because the dutch house of Orange, William of Orange Williams, William of Orange, owes a lot of its history to Spain. Because Spain used to rule that part of Europe. Yes, no, I buy all of that. But how do you know the fruit came before the color? Because I'm a trivia nut. But an orange, an orange, just so. It was called an orange. An orange from Narancia in Spain. No, I'm obviously pronouncing it wrong. Norange from Narencha. And then it just. We just adopted it to mean a slightly different shade of russet or ginger or oranges are orange, so they became associated with the color. So the fruit came before the color. I'm still. There's a 10% of me that thinks you're yanking my chain with the Noranges, but that Neranthia play was very strong. Very strong. It's because it's the truth. Well, obviously it would be. You'd say that. You're not going to say, ha ha ha, it was very strong. I fooled you. You're not going to turn to. Round of applause. That's strong, that's strong. No one likes to show off, though. 1254 is the time Michelle is in Leatherhead. Michelle, question or answer? It's an answer for you. James. Carry on, Michelle. Dogs have a hand preference. Yes, they do. How do we know? There's been quite a lot of research by different universities and pet therapists and all of that sort of thing. And the easiest way to tell what hand your dog prefers is generally when they get up to start their walk, what paw they put forward first. And also, if you give them something like a stick, a toy or a bone or something like that, and they hold it on the ground, it's what pore they take to hold it down with. And that will tell you what preference your dog has, whether it's left or right handed. Nothing to do with how they cock their leg up the tree. I think that's more just for comfort. Qualifications. Just an absolute nut about dogs and just read loads of silly things I'll do nothing silly about. That's got you a round of applause. It's the opposite of silly. Deadly silly. No, thank you. Great work. Why do they do the thing? I've got a tiny little ridiculous animal, but she still does that thing like she looks. She's about to go off hunting, where she lifts up one paw and. Do you know what I mean? Yes, I have absolutely no idea. I've not read anything about that one. But there are loads of different things about the position that your dog lays in. So, for example, my dog has got quite spindly legs, so they tend to lay on their back with one paw dead straight up in the air, which for us would be really uncomfortable, but for him, he snores away quite happily. Like it? Hang on a minute. I don't want to hear about your dogs are like dreams. I'm not interested in anybody else's. I wanted to know why my dog, despite being a tiny little half poodle creature, looks like she's going to go chasing deer in a minute. Michelle, got a round of applause. Well played. Professor Hal is here. Now, this is quite interesting for regular listeners to mystery. Hal, how are you? I'm very well, James. How are you? I'm all right. I'm going to tell you this because I know that you're a big lad, used to be a copper. Now the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, martial artist as well. There are many, many, many arrows in your quiver, but a few people have noticed you haven't been getting on much lately. Now, I know you've been in Russia, but. And you know I've got a new producer. Yeah, see, there's the thing they said. Who are you? Question or answer? I don't think. I think Caroline had a problem with you, mate. Really? Why? I have no idea. I never got to the bottom of it. I just. I just. Because I'd see you on the screen flashing away and then you wouldn't appear on the program and I never really understood why. Maybe she's gone. She's gone and you're back. That's good. It's the start of a new era. Could be, couldn't it? Question or answer? Well, I was torn between the x and the temperature one, but I'm going to go to the temperature one, if I may? Yes, please. The question is invalid because, as you rightly pointed out, cold isn't a concept, it's the absence of heat. And the centigrade scale is a completely arbitrary scale based on the properties of water. Ice melts at zero, water boils at 100. We all know those two quantities and therefore let's divide the temperature between them by 100. For example, you were thinking about Fahrenheit. Zero degrees centigrade is 32 degrees Fahrenheit. I think it doesn't make sense to say twice as hot, twice as cold. And the Kelvin scale, which is the mother of all scales, that starts at -273 centigrade, which is zero kelvin. So if your original contributor wanted to ask the question slightly better, they'd say, well, it's whether the molecules are moving at half the rate they were moving previously, which depends on the material. So there's too many variables. That'll do nicely. That's why he's back. His back like rocky. Five. Go on, Keith's in brain. Three. Keith, question or answer? It's an answer, James. It's about the cut. Which came first, the colour or the orange? It would be the colour. And the reason for that is that humans have evolved to see the electromagnetic spectrum that we call the light spectrum, from infrared to ultraviolet. Orange is well, in that spectrum. So we would have been able to have seen it. But what did we call it? Well, the name that we would have called it, I suppose, would have varied throughout history. But oranges were cultivated about two and a half thousand years BC, so. But were they called oranges? Well, we. Undoubtedly. They were named after the color. Why undoubtedly? Well, because the color. We've been able to see the color. So where do we get the name? You can see something, but why would you call it orange? Well, it depends what language you were speaking. Exactly. But as soon as the. Let the word or engine falling apart, Keith started off strong, fell apart like a cheap suit, mate. Unless you're suggesting that the. I'm not suggesting anything. The language word orange is less than, what, four and a half thousand years old. No, no, no. You've mistaken the existence of a color for the naming of a color. But we're talking about the naming of a fruit, so surely that's entirely relevant. I know, because what came first, the color or the fruit? Someone could have said, oh, this is lovely. It's called a narrow. An orange from Naranthia in Spain. It's really nice. And someone said, someone then said. Someone then said, oh, I know. No, because we're speaking about the european languages now. So somebody then said, oh look, there's a slightly odd yellowish shade of red over there. I'm really bored of calling it a yellowish. It's exactly the same color as your norwich. It's the same color as your norange. Let's call that color an orange in future. Round of applause for me, Keith, have a great day. I've crashed into sheet of photo doesn't have anything to do with or as in door golden sun orange. Orange. Sort of goldenish. It's nice. That's. I don't know if you'd have got on air with that, Sheila, but I'm quite impressed. I'm just making it up as I go along.