Why am I cheesed off?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time. I think I've broken one of my own records. I promised you I'd give you something and I completely forgot before I'd even finished speaking. Can we. Can we try and find that little clip of the Donald talking about the invention of the wheel? And I shall share it with you before closer play today, we'll be handing over to Sheila Fogarty in approximately 55 minutes time. So this is mystery 55 minutes. I think we'll stick with the original title. It's pithier, catchier, easier to absorb. If you have a question to which you are certain there must be an answer, but you don't know what that answer is, ring me now. Ask the question. Somebody else listening will know the answer and they'll ring in and provide it. Now, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, what an astonishingly dull and pedestrian radio idea this sounds like, James. In which case I say to you, trust me, it's anything but dull. It's many, many, many things, but dull, oddly, and I'm not sure why, is not one of them. So think of it as an adventure into the unknown. That's sort of the areas of life where these days. Guys doing maths. Man alive. Bear with me for a moment. All right. Mystery house up and running. The phone lines are open if you want to get involved. There's a couple of phone lines free. Zero 345-606-0973 I do quite a bit of homework with my kids, although I'm very much. As someone who went to boarding school, I'm kind of of the view that you should be doing it yourself. But we were bisecting angles last night. Have you bisected an angle lately, Keith? Was it just the way you're sitting? We were bisecting angles last night and I didn't know whether I was coming or going. I got to be honest with you, maths was never a particular strong point of mine, but I wasn't bad at it. I think I got a b O level. And google now, I appreciate for the massive majority of people listening to this program, I'm about to sound as if I've just discovered Google. I was well aware of Google before last night and I use it daily myself for a variety of reasons, but it changes everything with homework. Do you remember sitting at the kitchen table at home, staring at your books and thinking, I just don't know what's going on. And then you'd ask your mum and your mum would say, oh crikey. I'd wait till your dad gets home. And your dad would get home. I don't know. Trigger. What? A tree. Trigger what? Pythagor who? That was me. Last night, your eleven year old asks you if you can help with your homework. You'd like to think you're going to be able to ace it. First question. First question. Angle Avd Britney DB. Using a pair of compasses, plot the arcs and bisect the angle bac. What the flip is that about? Just googled it. Found the answer. Bisected an angle. Yay. What do you like? What did you do last night? I bisected an angle. Thank you very much indeed. All of which is the opposite of mystery out. So on mystery, you're not allowed to search for anything. You're not allowed to look stuff up. Because we're celebrating knowledge. We're kind of swimming very gently against the tide of saturation in which we currently exist. I like knowledge. I wish I had known how to bisect an angle without having to look it up. If you knew how to bi. Don't ring me. If you know how to bisect an angle. I haven't finished explaining how mystery hour works yet. That's not how it works. If you knew how to bisect an angle without having to look it up, I'd have been really impressed. Even though. Even if they set a stopwatch on it, I probably could have done it just as quickly as you. That's what mystery hour is for. Somehow celebrating that sense. We have that knowledge. Even if it is sometimes slower to access the knowledge in your memory banks than it would be to access the same knowledge on a computer screen, it's still worth cherishing. And you might get a ray Liotta. Wayne is in Immingham. Wayne. Question or answer? It's the question. Carry on. Wayne. What would happen if the queen. Or. Well, I'm sure the queen wouldn't, but what would happen if the reigning monarch committed a crime? Because this is a debate I've been having on. This would be Regina versus Regina. It would be Regina versus regina, wouldn't it? Which doesn't really make sense in the cases are normally kind of crown versus somebody. Yes. And then. I know, I know. The queen is excused from a lot of laws. Like she doesn't have a driving license, her car is not registered. She goes all over the place without a passport. You serious? So what would happen if she committed a murder? Should we go for a murder? Should we go for a murder? Yeah. It has to be a murder, really, doesn't it? If the queen committed a murder, I've had people telling me that she's above the law, but then in a case like that, I think surely she couldn't be. So I'm just wondering how it would play out if you committed a serious crime. I am as well. I mean. I mean, the historical precedent is unhelpful because depending on how far back you go, the monarch would go around knocking people off as if it was going out of fashion with impunity. So I wonder, do you know, I wonder whether a medieval historian could actually have a look at prosecuting King Henry VIII retrospectively because of the two that he killed. I mean, the case against Anne Boleyn was pretty flipping flimsy at the best of times, wasn't it? And yet that would be conspiracy to murder. Yeah, if the grounds one where you've been talking about Google. Google has completely let me down. You can't find an answer. What would happen if the queen was. I mean, I want to know now what would happen if she was suspected of murder? Yeah, you'd want to send in, you know, your best detective, wouldn't you? But you'd probably get a little bit starstruck. I shall try to find out for you. What is the relationship between the Crown and the Crown Prosecution service 0345-6060 can the Crown Prosecution Service prosecute the Crown? It's a great question. Nine minutes after twelve is the time Simon is in Leeds. Question or answer? Simon. Long term no speak. James, you've just been on. Well, you know, someone's gonna get fired anyway. Question. Fish. Yes. Why? Can some fish live in fresh water? Some fish live in saltwater that some fish can live in. Fresh and salt water. What fish can live in both? A trout can. Can't it spawns. Yeah, okay. I quite like that. The liver. Is it something to do with the liver? I don't know, because I am a fisherman, but I don't know. So I'll live up to you. I shall find out for you. Did you see, did you follow the rugby league by any chance? A little bit. Did you see the video that Ricky Gervais recorded for Rob Morrow over at, at Leed Rhinos? No, I didn't go and check. It's a terrible situation. But Ricky really came through and go and have a look at it. It was a lovely little moment. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. Thank you, Simon. Twice in a day. That's astonishing. I don't think it's ever happened before on the program. Heads will roll. Jordan is in Merseyside. Jordan. Question or answer? It's a question. Please go on. My partner absolutely loves watching things like time team. And I've always found them a bit morbid. And I always wondered what is the difference or who decides the difference between grave robbery and archaeology? Does it? Is it. Is it archaeology? If you didn't realize it was a grave? I don't know. Do they dig up graves? Is that the one with Tony Robinson? I haven't seen this for a while. I don't know why it's not. We were getting very, very excited about finding some remains and I. I don't know. I found it a bit. No, I've answered. I mean, it's a funny question, but I think I've answered it dully, but accurately is they're digging up a field and they find some remains. That's not grave robbery because they didn't know it was a grave. If it's got a blooming great stone there, here lies, you know, Solomon Grundy, born on a mundy, then it's grave robbery if it's consecrated ground. If it's consecrated ground, then it's going to be a grave robbery. If it's not consecrated ground, then it's archaeology. What about when they broke into the tomb in the pyramids, then you might say consecrated by a religion. You subject? I don't know. All right, I'll put it on. What's the difference between archaeology and grave robbery? Lovely. Thank you very much. I like it when you said that, that your partner really likes these programs and that you find them a bit morbid. Is that a source of tension? Well, I mean, she's in charge of the remorse, isn't she? So, yeah, tell me about it. Twelve minutes after twelve is a time zero three. Although I have to say we finally happened upon something that we both. Both enjoy equally at the moment. Always late to the party with the box sets, but hugely enjoying succession. A man alive. That's a good tv show. Mark is in Malvern. Lovely part of the world. Mark. Question or answer? I've got a question, James. Please carry on now. Japanese knot weed. Oh, really? Yeah. Why is it. Why is it so destructive to property? Because I heard the other day that it was knocking millions and millions off property prices all over the country. Yeah, but why is it so destructive? Well, what are you asking? You asking why is it knocking millions off prices all over the country? Or are you asking why? Because the answer to that is that it is so damaging. And the reason why it's so damaging is because the roots, isn't it? I mean, a, it's so hard to get rid of, and b, it grows really, really quickly and the roots will burrow through bricks, so it will undo the foundations of your home, if that is the case. I mean, the thing, if it's around the perimeter of a property within about three or 400, you're only allowed one question. Well, the question is, why is it so destructive? And if. Because it's. Because its roots burrow through brick. Oh, right. And that. That means it can actually do. What's the word I want? Is it architectural damage? Is that the word I want? You can do architectural damage to a bird. No. What's the word I want? Structural. What? Structural. Thank you. Yeah. Structural damage to a building. And therefore, if you've got japanese knotweed in the vicinity and you're looking for, how do I know this? And you're looking to get a mortgage and you're looking to get a mortgage, then it's going to be a problem, because even if it's structurally sound today, the fact that there's unaddressed japanese knotweed problems in the vicinity means that you might be putting in an insurance claim. And if they can see japanese knotweed, they're not going to insure you. And if they don't insure you, they won't give you a mortgage. Is that right? Yeah. Are you sure? Well, pretty sure. I mean. Well, yes, I am sure, actually. I mean, we've done that because it's a topic. It's one of those ones. I'll ask your advice, actually, Mark, while you're here. It's one of those topics, right, where I could get the phones to ring off the hook in 30 seconds flat by saying, have you ever had a problem with japanese knotweed? Boom. Is there anybody old out there feeling poorly? Or would you like to say something vaguely racist about immigration? Or have you ever got. Or have you ever got a parking ticket? That was really unfair. In the annals of phoning radio, that is boom. Switchboard lights up like a Christmas tree. But it's not very interesting because every story is the same. No, I understand that it obviously causes that sort of distress, but I just wanted to see why. And if you're saying is just because of the roots, then, well, I'll leave it. I'll tell you what, seeing as you're a fellow Worcestershire lad. Thank you. I shall leave it on the board for you, Mark. All right, top man. Yeah. Cheers, James. But if we get a different answer from the one I provided, I'll give you the money myself. It's 12:15 this is LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 318 minutes after twelve. Before we continue with mystery hour, we interrupt this program to bring you news from another dimension. Before you listen to this clip of the president of the United States of America, I would remind you of one thing. Thomas Edison passed away in 1931 and I was worried about him because he's one of our great geniuses and we have to protect our genius, you know, we have to protect Thomas Edison and we have to protect all of these people that came up with originally the light bulb and the wheel and all of these things. And he's one of our very smart people and we want to, we want to cherish those people. 18 minutes after twelve is the time Bradley is in Gillingham. Bradley, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's a question. Carry on. Right. When I. This has often crossed my mind when I pour a glass of water from my tap and drink it. Yeah. I always think, how old is that water that I'm actually drinking? In what sense? Well, I mean, how long has it been in the reservoir for? Have I got the bottom, the top, the middle of the reservoir? Is there like a. Can they put a used by date of it? I mean, is that. I don't think it works like that. It's not like. It's not going to be like those cliffs on the Isle of Wight, is it, where you can see the different colored rocks and it almost looks like neapolitan ice cream. I think that. No, but, I mean, people can't just have drinks every day from the reservoirs, like, say, in Dorset, in Wiltshire, Hampshire, wherever. Yeah. And it's like, put in that day or the day before you're drinking it. Obviously, it has to be there sometime before, but I don't know what you mean by old because, I mean, probably, I don't want to put you off your pint, but it's probably been drunk already seven or eight times by the time you're pouring it out of a tap. Eh? Oh, this is awkward. It's already. It's been through the sewage treatment places, it's come back round the water cycle. I mean, there's no such thing as rain then. What? I always thought it comes from the rain and all that. Well, some of it does, but, I mean, the reservoir and water is. It's a constant. Unless you find a previously untapped source under the alps. Then you just. There's no such thing as new or old water. I don't think. I mean, surely it's. And I'll put the question on the board, because I sense I'm sounding a bit thick now, but I think I'm right. I don't. Can you. I mean, the water. That. I understand the question. That's the least of my problems with this. I know exactly what you're saying. You buy on a bottle of water. But. Yeah, but that's usually to do with the plastic, you see, and the fact that after a while, it will taste of plastic and. And it's not used by. Used by, like an egg or cheese. I'm gonna put it on the board. How can you find out how old the water from your tap is? But I think the answer will be. The parameters of your question are not relevant, or something like computer says, no, I could be wrong. Someone might ring and say, two. Two years, but they'll be yanking my chain. Mike's in. Is that rawnds? Raunders, rawns in Northamptonshire. Question or answer, Mike. Answer, please, James. Carry on. Sir. The difference between archaeology and grave robbing. I like that question. Go on. Funnily enough, I get asked it quite a lot. Do you. Are you a grave robber? No, I am an archaeologist. Well, you would say that, wouldn't you? Carry on. I would say that. So, grave robbing is done for profit, and digging up in archaeology, in terms of human remains is done for basically research purposes, or where they're under threat sometimes from grave robbers. Yeah. I mean, you. Is that really the definition? Because then, if. I mean, if. I see what you mean. So archaeologists are looking for knowledge and grave robbers are looking for jewelry. In a. In a nutshell. So it's defined by their motivation, then? Yes. I mean, you. Grave robbing. Well, no, I mean, I don't want to get too. Too into it. Gravel is not a thing that is consigned to the past. No. And I don't want to rob anyone that might be listening up the wrong way, but I have opinions about. Go on. I didn't mean this was going to get controversial. Go on. Well, I mean, it's not a deep subject, but it's quite important. Yeah. There are people that dig up wargraves in France and looking for memorabilia. Looking for memorabilia because the memorabilia market is mental. I didn't know. That makes sense. Of course it does. So. So, very, very simply, archaeologists are not looking to make a profit. Although. Okay. What was, um. What was what's? His chops with two. And Carmen. What was his name? Howard. Howard Carter, yeah. What was he? An antiquarian, which is the precursor to the archaeology modern scientific version of archaeology. Also a grave robber. Also a grave robber. No. Well, tomb explorer. Tomb Raider. Tomb Raider, yeah. I wish. I have all the questions on mystery hour that I did not expect to lead into choppy waters. This was. This would have been one of them. It's a lovely art. Yeah, I'll take that. The difference between. So, I mean, actually, it plays into, I think, what I think subtext of the question was, which was there isn't really much difference if you. Well, I mean, most of what we do does not involve digging people out of the ground anyway, so. No, you're more like using a nail brush to clean up a mosaic. I know my archaeology. You can't get one. Yeah. You didn't give me a round of applause the last time. I forgot. Because you were wrong. Because I forgot because you were wrong. No, you were telling me that I need to write a book and then it was the news. Oh, well, I shall give you two rounds of applause, thank you very much. Or two round of applauses. I'm never quite sure which way round it goes before that. What? Um. Yeah, I do remember now, actually. And just remind me what your particular area of interest is. I'm a commercial archaeologist. That's it. So you get called in when they're. When they're dropping buildings and. Exactly. Yeah. Yes. Have you started on your book yet? No, I'm finishing up my site here. I've got to write that first. You can do both, can't you? You could incorporate the site into the book. I mean, this, Mike, it's all very well you sitting there. Don't come crying to me ten years from now, if you find yourself on your uppers, you could have had a best selling book. I've just started following ghost signs on Twitter, which is another one of my weird enthusiasms, which have been completely. Aren't they incredible? In some of the history that they tell you. There's a depository I drive past every morning. I mean, it's offices now, offices with foosball tables and bowling alleys and all that kind of thing, and bean bags. But it was the William Whiteley's depository. It was where the Whiteleys department store, which is now a kind of fading shopping mall in Bayswater. It would have been their warehouse. And you can tell this by looking up at the. So ghost signs is huge. Very popular. You need to get onto this, you need to get onto the little glimpses of the past you can find in really normal places. Mike, I'm not going to tell you again. Oh, okay. I will do it. Next time is an archaeology question. Someone else will. Next time you ring in, I'm going to ask you how the book is coming along. Michael. And I don't want any fibs. All right? It will be swimmingly. Thank you. Two rounds of applause for Mike, please. Perfect. Thank you. You're very welcome. Actually, withhold the second one until he starts work on the book. Did you catch that, Mike? I did. I shall keep it in the fridge for you. 25 minutes after twelve is the time. I like that answer. If you want to expand upon it, you're always welcome to do so. We still need to know how old the water that comes out of our tap is. And what happens if the queen murders someone. Zero, 345-606-0973 I know the queen listens every day if there's no racing on. So I would remind you. Your Majesty, this is an entirely theoretical inquiry, but if you do know the answer, you're more than welcome to ring in and tell us. Zero 345-606-0973 James is in Cheshire. James, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. What is the origin of the phrase cheesed off? Quite like that. Whereabouts in Cheshire are you? That's very vague. Um, near crew. Okay, you've a bit. What? Nam twitch. You sounded a bit nervous then. Why? What have you got to hide? Nothing. Nothing to hide. Fair enough. Just trying to give me a reference that I might have heard of. Yeah, basically, you underestimate my knowledge of Cheshire. My friend Matthew from Stockport is in the studio as we speak, giving me a funny look. So I'm a little hurt that you thought I wouldn't know my way around that part of the country. However, the question of the origin of the phrase cheesed off is yet another one of those things that I knew once but can't remember. You sound quite young, James. You haven't reached this stage of your life yet. No, I haven't. Not yet. I won't spoil it for you by giving away the ending. I don't know. I did know, and it is quite a good one. Remember, only allowed one origin of the phrase a week. So the origin of the phrase cheesed off. Until we answer that, we can't take any more. The knotweed question is still on the board. As I mentioned a moment ago. Is the question about how old the water in your tap is? I like that. Sam's in Stratford upon Avon. Sam, question or answer? Question. Carry on. I've always wondered, because I fly a lot. Why do we always get on the plane on the left hand side, port out, starboard home? It's starboard. It's a throwback. Throwback. Ten years flying back and forwards to all over the place. That's what it is. It's the same as a boat would be, dockside, so a plane will be. What's it called? Airside and landside, or something like that. And starboard and port are still used, I think, as the. But why? Why haven't we changed it? Because wouldn't it be. Why not? Because it's. When you build an airport, it must be cheaper to have the entrances sort of facing next to each other. Well, I mean, luckily you're only allowed one question, so I don't have to entertain this or even begin to attempt to answer it, but I'm going to anyway because I'm a nice person. I don't. I don't think you're right. I don't think it would be cheaper to have. Why would it? Two gangways off the same section. That's a bit like saying, if you've got a garage, have you got a garage at home in Stratford? You got a garage. You don't get many of them in central London, but you be a bit like me saying, why don't they build doors at both ends of your garage? Well, because I know they'll end up in the field behind my house. Exactly. Same with the airports. Perhaps not quite like the same with the air, but I don't think it would be cheaper or easier to. But anyway, the answer is port out, starboard home. So starboard is the left hand side facing forward, and that's the side that is land side. Well, on. On Monday, when I go on the plane, I'll think about that. Good. I look forward to. Where are you flying to on Monday? Snowboarding. Geneva. For fun or business? Well, fun, yeah. For a week. Yeah. Be careful. All right. Look after yourself, Sam, and think of me on Monday. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC question still in need of answers. The queen and murder. The origin of the phrase cheesed off the age of tap water is in any way calculable. And if you want to add to the knotweed one, you can. But I've had an astonishing amount of confirmation via social media. It really is. It grows so quickly and its roots are so invasive that if you've got a japanese knotweed in your back garden. You've got all sorts of problems going on. You'll probably hear a little bit more about this in the news bulletin, Morrison, in a moment. But I can tell you that Morrison's is to act around 3000 managerial roles across its stores as part of a restructure. But they pledge that the process will create more shop floor jobs. I don't know what to make of that. No doubt we'll find out more as the day progresses. It's 12:30 and Thomas Watts has the headlines for you. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1234. What's the story with those fish that can survive in fresh water and saltwater? What's the difference? What happens if the queen commits a murder? Is she above the law? Literally? How old is the water that comes out of your tap and the origin of the phrase cheesed off? If you can answer any of those, I'll give you the money myself. We've got the knotweeds there. I've answered the knotweed question, so I don't think that admits a steward's inquiry, but who knows? 1235 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Tom is in the city of London. Tom, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on, Tom. So it's to do with the Queen and whether she could be charged and convicted with murder? Oh, yeah. So it's a little bit of a tricky question because no one actually truly knows the answer. Given the unwritten or formerly unwritten status of our constitution, which we saw in full effect with the prorogation case, didn't we? Yeah. Yeah. So there's a doctrine called the doctrine of sovereign immunity, which suggests that the sovereign cannot be subject to criminal law. The waters have been muddied slightly in the sense that since we moved to a constitutional monarchy and you have a sovereign parliament, the idea of the Crown is you've got the government acting as the crown, and then you've got the person of the queen herself. Now, clearly, the crown is in the government, can be taken to court and has been for various things. But in terms of the person of the queen herself, there's an argument that the doctrine of sovereign immunity would still prevail. And indeed, if you look across to what's happening with President Trump at the moment, and you look at the Mueller report, the Mueller report concluded, based on an advice memo from the Department of Justice, that the president cannot be criminally charged, charged. So even if he commits a crime whilst he's in office, he can't be charged. The only way to. He can only be impeached through impeachment. Now, if you go back through the history books, there is an example, very famous example, of a monarch being tried, and that was. That's Charles I in January 1649. You're very good. So historical precedent would say yes. Yeah. But only if there's only. Only if he's lost a civil war. Yes. It's all very well saying yes. So you need that rather important caveat, Millard, you got. I mean, we have put a monarch on trial, but only after beating him in a civil war. Indeed. I think. I think things have moved on constitutionally, one would hope. I don't think we'd need to go to that level of extreme just yet, but I think that it would be more of a political and constitutional question than it would be sort of a pure sort of criminal legal question. I think it's unthinkable in this day and age, if the queen deliberately committed an act of murder, that there wouldn't be some sort of repercussion, for want of a better word. It's just. I mean, the interesting thing as well is that the murder is a common law offence. Right? It's one of the few that doesn't actually have a statutory basis. I didn't know that. And part of. Part of the definition of murder is a killing of a person in being under the king or queen's peace. Right. So that adds an interesting sort of dimension to it as well. You've gone full. I mean, round of applause for your answer, without any doubt at all. But if I were to, pray see it and to shed all the helpful, illustrative knowledge that you've just shared, what you essentially seem to be saying when I ask you, would the queen be prosecuted for murder? You can say, well, we won't know until she does one. Yeah, yeah. Round of applause. Hang on, what are your qualifications? I can't work it out for myself. Solicitor. Qualified solicitor. And just general constitutional buff. That'll do, I'd say, on the murder point. Obviously, there's some conspiracy theorists that say she already has. Blimey. But quick, give him a round of applause to cover up that uncomfortable pause. It was more. Not so much, but I know. I know exactly what you mean. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I like that. There's got still a few to go through, so we don't know, is the short answer. That's why you couldn't find an answer on the Internet or it's a constitutional law question that is as yet unaddressed because it's never, it's never occurred. Ben is in Camberley. Ben, question or answer? Answer, please carry on. Yeah, it's just in regards to the aeroplane question while we board on the left hand side. Oh, did I get it wrong? Well, I just wanted to. Well, not wrong. I just wanted to discuss it with you because there was a couple of points I wanted to bring up because I think a lot of it is to do with the way the airplane is designed, because Airbus, Boeing, generally design it. So the cargo holds are on the other side. So generally what you find is that you will board on one side, they're able to load on the other side and then refuel on the same side as which we board on. Of course it is. Yeah. So that gives the lie to the suggestion that it would be more efficient to have multi purpose, because actually it's not multi purpose. The left hand side is for people and the right hand side is for cargo. Yes, essentially cargo and baggage bins. That's all it's for. So I suppose, for example, Heathrow would be built around the fact that those airplanes are designed in that way. What about the port out, starboard home? Was I just talking gibberish? No, no. I mean, partly true. I mean, you generally. I mean, you can find in other out stations and airports, they do put steps on the other side of the aircraft occasionally. I mean, especially if there's something to do with engineering or there's a fault of the aircraft, that you can put steps on the other side. But from a safety perspective, it's generally the air brick bridge is on that side for that reason. I don't. I mean, I'm going to. I'm going to give you a round of applause because you kind of answered the second bit of the question, albeit without necessarily challenging the first bit. And I like it, it helps for ease of understanding. Thank you. Ben, you clearly work in the industry or a massive airplane enthusiast, so you know more about this than I ever will. 1241 is the time. Vincent is in Lewisham. Vincent, question or answer? Answer, James. It's about the water treatment or the water coming through. Really. Can you answer this question or not? Well, there's no definite, definite answer because obviously water's recycled time and time again. Yes, that was what I was trying to tell the fellow. He obviously didn't quite know that and it all got a little bit sticky. I don't think he got the quiet bit that it's been through human body, like seven or eight. Thank you for that, Vincent. But, yeah, no, but it's definitely one of the things that sits in the tanks for, you know, weeks, weeks to months, because obviously it's always turned over. And actually, drinking water goes through less. Sorry, more testing than bottled water, actually. And bottled water goes for about four tests and drinking water goes for around seven. Gosh. So there's no way you can know the age of a glass of water, because every molecule could be a different stage in its process. Exactly, yeah. I mean, obviously, you know, once it's been cleaned and it's been pushed out, I mean, there's temperatures, it's got to stay out. And bold water obviously has a sell by date because it's not open to air. Well, obviously tap water. I mean, when you look across the reservoirs, they're open to air and, you know, they're sort of always being fresh and treated as such. Not happening then. I mean, it just simply isn't a question you can answer with a number or even with a. With a calculation qualification. I'm a plumber, but now, I trained as a plumber many years ago, but I'm a consultant now. I love it. Don't suppose you can help me with my underfloor heating, can you? I'm having a wrong. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Take the number. I mean, it's working all right. I just can't work out how to program it. Ah, see, I was like a cat on a hot tin roof this morning when I went in for a shower. Well, I don't need an engineer, I just need to find the instructions. Book clip. But I thought there might be a secret trick. I'm not exaggerating, people think I'm doing this for comic effect. I couldn't. I was literally on tiptoes ashore. I was dancing around. There's no problem there. Yes, I shall look into it, but I suspect this is a bit below your pay grade. Round of applause for Vincent, please. 1243 is the time. James O'Brien is a condescending public school champagne socialist. Underfloor heating. Ramona, can we add that line now to the. To the biography? Thank you. Richard is in the Isle of Dogs. Richard, question or answer? Richard, if you're talking to me. I'm not in the Isle of Dogs, but I'm calling about the aircraft. Oh, really? Yeah. I'm not going to lie to you, I got bored halfway through the second contribution to the aircraft question, very, very quick. The guy was alluding to the fact that if you load it on either side, you could have two aircraft on the one, gantry, one on the left, one on the right. Well, that wouldn't work because you got wings on either plane which would clash. They need to be further apart, therefore there's only need to load from one side. I don't think he said that, but the last thing I want to do is get bogged down in this. Okay? The other thing, the port outward, starboard homeward and port is actually the left side. Starboard is the right side, not the other way around, as you said. And that derives from when they sailed out to India. The people with money would stay on the port side going out, because it was the shady side and therefore cooler coming home. Oh, you get a round of applause for that. You should have opened with your best material. Seriously. I look forward to it. Thank you, Richard. 1244, John's in Clapham. John, question or answer? We may never know. Let's take a little break. Coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. Robberies and knife crime up, murder and manslaughter down. Only one in 14 reported incidents lead to a charge. Do you feel safe where you live? Sheila Fogarty on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1248 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. A couple of questions still on the board room, probably for one or two more. The origin of the phrase cheesed off, I thought would be a bit of an easy one to answer. Where's Wayne Embassildon with his Brewers Dictionary of phrase and fable when you need him? The queen of murder. I quite liked that answer. Although I hope we never do find out the full answer because that would involve the monarch being accused of having committed a murder. We've done the japanese knotweed, we've done the tap water, the saltwater and freshwater fish. What's going on there? How come some can survive in both and others would die if they were moved and. And then the. I suppose the knot weed one, if you want. If you want to add to that. Why is it such a troublesome weed? Dave is in Essex. Dave, question or answer? Answer. All right, mate, carry on. Right. Japanese knot weed. Yes. Was bought by the Japanese. Yeah. It was fast growing bamboo, which it wasn't. Right. It was just a weed, so they couldn't sell it, so they basically dumped it all around the railway. Yes. So if you buy a house next to a railway, you'll probably find you got japanese knotweed. Yes. Why is it so problematical. It grows so quick and it just gets everywhere. Well, it gets into the. Into the foundations, doesn't it? Everywhere, anywhere, everywhere. It just. And it's very hard to kill. And they still haven't come up with a. With a sort of nice and easy way of getting rid of it. There's not an easy way. There's companies that specialize in it because you leave a little bit there and it will come back again. It's everywhere. Yeah, it's a nasty thing. I've done it on the show back in the. In the days when I was a little less sophisticated than I am now, Dave. But. But it is. I mean, every store, every story is identical. It spreads like wildfire and then it starts undermining the structural foundations of the house or the building. Which is why if you've got japanese knotweed in your garden, you're going to struggle to sell your house, because any survey that finds it is going to result in any prospect of a mortgage being nixed. Yeah, you can find them into this specialist to get rid of. They just get rid of japanese knotweeds. But it's very expensive. Very expensive. What are your qualifications, Dave? I'm just basically a gardener. What do you mean, just basically? Where would we be without gardeners, Dave? Especially sophisticated ones like yourself? Well, I'm not a sophisticated gardener. I'm a sophisticated gob on a stick. You are a gardener. Well, let's not get carried away, Dave. I'll go with Gob on a stick for now, but you. You get a round of applause. Thank you, sir. Oh, thank you. Good luck to anybody encountering this scourge of the suburban garden. 1251 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. What about the cheesed off? We must be able to do the cheesed off one. Andy's in Camberley. Andy, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Andy. At Christmas I always have turkey, but I only ever eat the turkey leg. I'm not a keen on the breast. Okay. And this year, as there was not so many for Christmas lunch, we decided that we would buy a turkey crown and I would buy a turkey leg separately. Oh, yeah. We couldn't buy one anywhere apart from an actual butcher. And in the supermarket, where else did you try a plumber? Where else did you try to buy a turkey leg if not a butcher's? Do you try all the supermarkets? Oh, I beg you. I'm being a bit thick there. Andy. I thought you'd gone into a sort of, I don't know, a dry cleaners or something like that, or a branch of boots. I thought, well, you're not going to get a turkey legging boot. So you mean you had to go to someone who was chopping up the turkey. Yes. To specially order it, rather than where the. All the rest were just turkey crowns. So I just wonder what happened to all the other turkey legs? Well, you do know you can work this out, can't you, Andy? Well, it. Presumably it gets cut up into intersections. Well, there are several possible answers to your question, but I mean the obvious. I mean, do you know what it is today? Do you know what the number one trend on Twitter is at the moment? No, I don't, fortunately. Well, lucky for you, probably. But, you know, it's hash national pie day, right? So the bits of the turkey that are left over after they have separated the crowns for sale will, will go into everything from tin to pies to probably even some pet food, won't they? That's. I mean, it's just, it's not a special. Go on. Do they say then that the turkey leg, which is dark meat? Yes. Different to the breast? Yes. Which is white meat? Correct. Duly. In a pie, say it's a turkey dark meat. No, they'll just say turkey and ham pie, won't they? You see, why would you waste the expensive stuff on a pie when you can just call it turkey? I mean, that will be the answer. I don't think I'm going to give myself a round of applause for this one, but I did mention to the producer a moment ago that we should have somehow worked harder to mark national pie day today. And then along came you with your question, which allows me to reference the fact that it's national pie day. I'm glad I could help. Well, I'm very glad you were here to do so. It was a bit of a shoehorn. So I shall try and get you a better answer. What happens to all the turkey legs from, from. I mean, what do you think was in turkey twizzlers? It's not going to be prime turkey breast, is it? Well, you leave it that way, Andy, if you haven't. But you remember, you remember Jamie Oliver going on a mission about turkey twizzlers because it turned out that they barely had any meat in them at all, but the meat they did have in them is highly unlikely to have been prime breast. So any kind of turkey snack based product is going to use the bits of the bird that weren't, you know, separated and sold as premium cuts. I'm going to find it difficult to buy a turkey leg. Well, yeah, but not really, Andy, because you can go to a butcher's. Everyone else goes to supermarkets. I don't. I go to Ken, I get my car. I mean, we weren't entertaining this year. At Christmas. It was my sister in law's time. Had a goose. But I go to Ken to get my turkey. Every year I go to Ken by Kew Bridge and he looks after. Did you have a goose leg? I did have a goose leg, actually. What is it with you and legs? Have you ever had a goose leg? No, I haven't, no. Oh, you see, you haven't lived until you've had a goose. Right. I'm going to give myself a round of applause. If someone rings in with a better answer, then I will obviously allow that to be added as well. Andy, thank you. What a lovely question. Thank you. Got his leg in the end. That's the main thing. Zero. 345-606-0973 I can't believe we haven't got an answer to the cheesed off question. If we can get that one. I think we've done everything this week, haven't we? Unless I've got anything wrong. What is the origin of the phrase cheesed off? Let's think about it. Come on. Cheesed off. Cheesed off. So it's another phrase for hacked off or peeved. Cheesed off. Where do you get some cheese? Cheese has gone off. Cheese is off. You're unhappy. Come on. Just another. Andy. This one's in Sandhurst. Andy, question or answer? I've got an answer for you. Oh, yeah? I'll be the judge of that. It's to do with a fish. The fish that live in saltwater and freshwater, actually known as brackish water fish. Yes. And they're fish that basically live in the part of the river that's closer to the sea. So some salt water actually carries down the river as it dilutes, as it gets further. Actually, oddly, where I am in London is like that. You need to get to Teddington, I think, before it's a completely. So. No, genuinely, before it's completely salt free, you need to get to Teddington lock, I think, or possibly Richmond, but either way. Yes, I recognize what you described, but I don't know if you're answering the question that was asked. Well, they're known as brackish water fish, so they could live. Yeah, but I think the question was about the biology, about what is going on. How come some fish can survive in both and some will die. You know, if you. If you put your goldfish in saltwater, it would car kit, wouldn't it? I think. Yes, it would. But I'm going to give you a round of applause for bringing the word brackish to the party. All right? Thank you. Thank you very much. And we'll go to Duncan, who's in Richmond and may be able to take this answer a little further. In the meantime, there is a round of applause up for grabs. If you know the origin of the phrase cheesed off. 034-5603 code 973. Duncan, question or answer? Hello, mate. It's an answer to that question. You've just had someone on answer. Yes, go on. I can't remember the exact names and terms because it's a long time ago. Oh, yeah, yeah. Go on, then. No, no, no, listen, there are two. I couldn't be making these rude and dismissive noises if I wasn't listening to you in the first place. Duncan, there are two types of fish. Memory tells me that one is stenoline or steniline or something. Yes. And the other is uraline. Steniline fishes, if that's the right term, can only live in one particular type of water. Uroline fish can live in both. And the reason is if you put a fish that is stenoline, that is, lives in saltwater into fresh water, their bodies have such a concentration of salt within them through evolution that the fresh water dilutes their bodies, actually dilutes their bodies. As if we had drunk far too much water. And we get what's called water poisoning, I think. So they die within. Within hours or days as a result of osmosis. I think it is as a result of. I can't. I can't remember how you put it through a semi permian. All of that malarkey. Yes. I mean, it's a better lake than never. Do you know, my current producer has no idea what that means. It shows how long it is. It shows how long it is since osmosis triggered the hosanna button, doesn't it? Well, you live and learn. Round of applause for Duncan. It was a time where you couldn't say that word on this radio program without the hosanna kicking in immediately. Was that from Messiah? Is that. Is that handled, Sheila Fogarty or. No. Was that the hosanna? It could be Mozart. Was that Mozart? Okay, granted. Thank you, Sheila. I don't know. I'll take over now. One last answer, hopefully, from Grant in Lewisham. Question or answer, Grant. Answer. Carry on. The cheese question is you. Great cheese. Yeah. You're getting grated off. Yeah. What will you grate? Cheese. Yeah. So something's grating on you. Yeah. You're cheesed off. Do you know what word I wouldn't use to describe your answer, Grant? What's that? Great. Stay there. I might share it with you, but Williams and Canuck, to have a better vomit dish. Thank you very. One of my kids got me a book of dad jokes for my birthday last week. Quickly, William in Canock. Can you do it? What origin of the fresh cheese? Dolph. Go on. Hi, James. It's the opposite to say cheese when you smile. When you get your photograph taken, cheese stuff is obviously the opposite. You look sad and happy. There you go. Do you just make that up? No, just a general note. But it's food changed, really. All right. Well, unfortunately, we've run out of time, so I can't award a round of applause to either of you. Here's Sheila Fogarty. I think you'd say cheese off in that situation. I think you'd say, you look. Yeah, I don't. Cheesed off. It's going to have something to do with victuals, isn't it? And larders and kitchens. But anyway, thank you very much. From three today, bereaved parents who lose a child will be allowed two weeks statue. Statutory leave from work. It's called Jack's law. How did you cope when it happened to you? And would this have helped to. Bullying and harassment at work is, according to most employees, largely untackled. Has that been your experience? We'll have the latest later on this afternoon on the trial of Harvey Weinstein as well. There's also a service taking place of remembrance at Yad Vashem in Israel. Prince Charles is due to speak there in just a few moments, remembering the liberation of Auschwitz 75 years ago. But first up, let's talk about crime today in the here and now. About only one in 14 crimes reported to police lead to a suspect being charged. Do you feel safe where you live? On your radio? On global player and play LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.