Can you take a fish to the vets?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien yes, it is time for mystery Hour, and I will, in the course of the hour, solve the mystery of what Matt Butcher is. I'll tell you now, it's an arabic tomato, bell pepper, chili and garlic dish that purists are complaining has no place on british pub menus. I'm inclined to agree. But anyway, mystery air. It's time for you to get an answer to the question which has been bothering you for the longest time, or possibly just for the last couple of minutes. The way it works is this. You ring in with a question, zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need and someone else will know the answer to it sounds a little bit dry, but trust me, it isn't. Regular listeners will know that it is by far the most popular feature on the program. It's the only feature on the program apart from me, which means it's definitely the most popular feature on the program. And the applaud is that are in place for successful answers are glittering indeed. You could get a round of applause. You could even get a Ray Liotta. What's a raliota? James? Well, because the motto of the program some years ago was, if you build it, they will come. A recognition, actually, at the time of the slightly strange decision that we took to start inviting experience ahead of opinion on a phone in program, so people would ring in because they actually had lived what we were talking about. You couldn't just say, oh, it's political correctness gone mad. You'd be asked, what do you mean by that? And what's actually happened to you to make you think that? And that was the moment in the history of the program that everything changed. Everything changed. And Ray Liotta, of course, being the actor whose voice in the Kevin Costner film Field of Dreams, says, if you build it, he will come. Ray Liotta was being interviewed by my friend and colleague, mentor and role model Steve Allen, and they asked him if he'd record it for us, and he did. Which means if you ring in with an answer to a question and your qualifications for knowing it are almost unbelievably apposite. So it's a question, for example, about space hoppers, and you turn out to have invented the space hopper, or perhaps even if you are bouncing on a space hopper, when you ring in by coincidence, then you'll be given that greatest of all mystery hour. Indeed, the program accolades. It's not just on mystery hour that you can get it. You can also get it in the course of the normal programs when you ring in, if we're talking about a topic and it's based on a news story about a person and then you in and you are that actual person, you'll probably get one as well. Six minutes after twelve is a time. A couple of rules, repetition, but there's not a lot you can do about that. It's, you know, you've got a crack team answering the phone, but they haven't been here nearly as long as I have. So it's my job to look out for questions that we've had before. But dullness, you probably can police it a little bit yourself. You probably do, you know, if it's going, why isn't there any white dog poo anymore? Then? Given that we've been doing this now for over a decade, I think the chances that we have never addressed those questions before are zero. So have a look at the mystery archive if there's any confusion. Zero. 345-606-0973 to ring in LBC dot co dot UK to have a look at the archive. And I think that's it, isn't it? If you hear me say the number, it means I've got a phone line free. Yeah, I've got. I've got. Keith is pressing the buttons today. He's never worked on. Have you done mystery hour before? It's a big moment for Keith because he's a massive mystery hour fan. Him and his mum have been known on a drive to Cornwall to listen to seven mystery hours back to back, so it's quite a special moment for him. Sean is in Bishop store for Sean. Question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Why is it considered lucky crossing your fingers? It's Jesus in it. It's a little prayer. No, no, it's a little. A little prayer. Say a little prayer for me. It's a little prayer because it's a cross. It's like, you know, doing the sign of the cross and the lucky thing. So I'll cross my fingers. Yeah, because you're praying for it. Yeah, exactly. It's the same way you do a sign of a cross before taking a penalty. Asking for God's help. Asking for God's help. We're not the hand of God. No. Chuckling away. Get a round of applause for me. Nice question, simple start. You are allowed to be more complicated than that. But I like that one. We've done it before. That's how I know Natalie's in reading. Natalie question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. Natalie, I was wondering when the Olympics happened recently, you had north and South Korea who had their combined flag, and I wanted to know whether there's a name for the people who design flags. And obviously nowadays there's not much need for it. But back in the day when all the nations were coming up with their new flags, who actually made them? And is it a proper job? You mean like a sort of international flag designer? Yeah, but, like, did the government choose it or was it ordinary Joe blogs on the street? I think it would. Originally it was almost all naval. I think so. I mean, I know that's not an answer to your question, but I think flags and insignia almost always have their roots in fleets and navies, and then it transmuted from fleets to nations, sovereign nations, having flags. But who designed. I mean, I'm just trying to get a simple question. Who designs flags is what you want to know. Let's just do that. I mean, for Switzerland, you can't say that theirs is naval. Who designed their flag? No, I didn't say it was naval. I said it began as a naval practice which then transmuted into national insignia. Yeah. So is there. I guess, is there any. Who designs flags? Who designs flags? Yeah. And do they still exist? Someone designed that korean one you talked about passed me by that, I don't know. There'd have been a committee, wouldn't there? All right, you're on. Or an individual? Yeah. No, you're on. Well, it wouldn't be an individual because it has to be approved by at least two individuals because otherwise the North Koreans would have just made it all about them or the South Koreans would have made it all about them. So you have to at least have two individuals, and I call that a committee. Yeah, you're on. Who designs flags? Zero. 3456-606-0973 it's unlikely that there's going to be a neat answer to that question because, you know, every flag has probably got a slightly different story behind it, but if you can ring in and sound clever, I'll take your call on that. Who designs flags? Who designed the union flag? We should know stuff like this. Brexit is should know stuff like that, shouldn't they? Oh. Three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. And we have another question on the way. I presume it's a question, unless you're going to answer that flag question. Andrew's in Barnstable. Andrew, question or answer? Hi. James, it's a question. Go on. Cereal packets. I was in the supermarket the other day of my missus and she was taking ages, as usual. I ended up in the cereal while. And it suddenly occurred to me that all cereal packets seem to have male characters on them, apart from one sort of novelty, one which is after a Disney film. So I don't class that as a real serial packet. What do you mean by male characters? You mean the cocoa pops monkey and Tony the tiger? The cockerel, Tony the tiger? Yeah. Coco pops. You know, snap, crackle and pop. What, is there a story on the porridge? There was a story this week about the cocoa pops, about a mum being removed from a cocoa pops advert, or might have been an advert or packaging. Is this a question, though, Andrew, mate? Yeah, of course it's a question. Why are all cereal packet characters male? I mean, who's going to possibly know the answer to that? Someone that works in Syria. But there isn't an answer. No, I mean, there isn't an answer. There's no sort of deliberate agenda here, because I was wondering whether it sort of came from, like, modern or old America. They used to give, like, the impression that, you know, the dad went out and worked and earned the money. So if you have a hearty breakfast and so that kind of thing, you know, that kind of background to it, if you're talking about the balance, the gender balance of 50 years ago, then you'd be right. You would never have seen a woman in an advert unless it was for washing powder or, I don't know, Hoovers. Yeah, yeah. If there's an answer. Look, mate, if there's an answer to this, I'll give you the money myself. If there's an actual formal, codified, neat answer to this, with historical reference and evidence, I will give you the money. I'll send you a postal order for 50 p. Excellent. All right, serials. 1212 is the time. 034-56-0609 who invents flags? And, frankly, I'm amazed that got through. Why are all the characters on cereal packets? Male Terry is in Millwall. Terry, question or answer a question, please, James. Carry on, mate. Why do we call it a stiff upper lip when it's the bottom lip that tends to tremble? It's not the bottom lip that tends to tremble. It is the bottom lip. Yeah. It's both lips. No, tremble. Tremble. It trembles like. Like anything. No, it does, it does, it does. Shows all the emotion. The top lip just sits there. No, the bottom lip just gets stuck out. When you're in a hum, the top lip is the one that quivers. Well, you've answered the question anyway, haven't you? Because it's the. The key bit of the figure of speech is the stiffness, not the upper ness. Why would that be attached to being sort of like non emotional, you know, the lip of the british? Well, that. Because you're not crying, so you don't show your feelings on the outside, you see? And it wouldn't necessarily just be crying. The upper lip is a very expressive part of the body. You don't smile, you don't frown, you don't sneer, you don't weep, you don't quiver. You keep it stiff. You show nothing to Johnny Foreigner, because if he can see into your soul, he will know that you're about to nick his country. Put it this way. Where did this expression stiff up come from? Ah, well, probably Dickens. I don't know. I'll put that on the list. Where did it come from? Because, I mean, it clearly displays an inscrutable demeanor, doesn't it? An inscrutable fizog. Exactly. But where does it come from? I'm not having an argument about whether it's the upper or the lower lip. What does the quivering. Nice question, that. Actually, I can't believe we've never done it before. Adam is in Birmingham. Adam, question or answer? Hi, James. There's a question. Please, mate, carry on. Do animals suffer from irrational fears in the same way that humans do? That's a brilliant question. But it really struck. We struggle with the word rational, though, or irrational, because how are you going to know whether it's irrational or not without having a conversation with the animal? That's a fair point, but I thought you might have. Well, my dog doesn't like cars. Okay. Is that irrational? Jumps up and runs out of the room at the sight of a spider. I'd say that was pretty irrational. Do you know an animal that does that? What about cats and cucumbers? What's that about? Well, there's videos online of, you know, that's because they think it's a snake. You reckon? I do reckon. Yeah, I have heard of that, actually. And so that's what I mean by trying to work out whether it's irrational or not. Because if you say cats are scared of cucumbers, you say, well, that's an irrational fear. If you say cats are scared of cucumbers because cucumbers look like snakes and they've got a genetic inheritance to be frying the snakes and suddenly it's not an irrational fear at all. Although you'll never look at a cucumber in quite the same way again. Fair point, mate. What would be an answer? Do we need to find one dog that's terrified of clowns? Well, I was hoping that one of your listeners might be animal behaviour specialist. Yeah. Oh, crikey. Get you. Yeah, sorry. You're producing the program while I just waffle around in the background. You're absolutely right. There might be an animal behavioural specialist or some such who would know the answer to that question. Because my problem initially is that if we found a dog that's terrified of clowns, it wouldn't necessarily be irrational because the owner might say, of course, he was brutalized by a clown when he was a puppy. No, fair point. So we need to. Do animals have phobias? I think that's the question, yeah, I think that's the question as well. Brilliant. That's one, mate. I mean, rabies is hydrophobia. Isn't that the official name of rabies? Yeah, I believe so. There you go, then. That's an irrational fear of water. So the short answer, your question is, yes, dogs with rabies. But we want something. We want something a little bit more sophisticated than that. And we shall, we shall do our level best. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. It's 1216. Do animals get phobias? Origin of the phrase stiff upper lip? Who designs flags? And why are all the cartoon characters on cereal boxes? Male? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery hour is upon us. Do you know who designs flags? It'd be quite a cool job. It can't be very difficult, can it? It's the sort of thing you charge millions for. What is the origin of the phrase stiff upper lip? And by that I mean first. Where did it first appear? Because I think we can work out a lot of other elements. And do animals have irrational fears? Do they suffer from phobia? It is 20 after twelve. Couple of phone lines free. Don't ring in if there's no answer to your question. I can see Beth's face as she deals with some of the people who ring in early thinking. They've got real zingers. And it's tragic to see such youthful innocence dashed upon the rocks of cynicism and experience. If you ring in and say, why is apples and pears the most commonly used rhyming slang? There's not going to be an answer to that question. What else, what other stuff are you putting up with? There has to be an answer. Like a formal, clear answer to the question, otherwise it won't get on. I know what you're thinking. Why the hell did you let on that cereal box? Question, then. And I agree. Know why? We'll be having words about that. I might have to play a bit of plastician before the end of the program just to improve my mood. Andrew's in Canterbury. Andrew, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on. Irrational fears. Yeah. I've got a chocolate lab that's scared of heights. It's not irrational. He might fall off. Well, no, I mean, the first time. The first time we found out he was. We were going across one of those. You know those steel footbridges. Yeah. Once it goes this one across a mill circular. And he was halfway across it before he realized he was up. You know where they've got the perforations you can see through to the floor. Yes, of course. He's looking forward and doesn't see anything. He looked down, realized there were holes, realized he was up and laying on the floor. We had to literally drag him across. But is that irrational? Is that irrational? Because my dog does the same. There's a bit near us, near the river, where there's a wooden walkway, and then, like you say, a little bit of perforated. And she ends up on the perforated bit and then leaps onto the wooden bit so that she can't see down below her. But that's not necessarily irrational. That's a fear of falling from a height. Yeah, but when you're actually standing on something which is about four foot wide. But it's a dog, isn't it? I mean, it doesn't process. It can't process the information that you can process. All the dog thinks is, oh, my God, I can see the floor. I thought I was safe. Lie down. Well, that's as good as he gets. He won't do anything. He won't get onto trains. Anything at all. Where he sees a gap, will he go upstairs, up the stairs now? Yeah, that's good. All right. So you're going to go for. Yes. We could get a whole hour out. My one ignorant dog. We could get a whole hour out of this. I can't allow. Don't allow the proceedings to be entirely dominated by frightened animals. All right. It might be fun, but it would somehow betray the tradition of mystery. I'm going to give you half a round of applause, Andrew. Okay, we'll get with half. Yeah, because it's, you know, it's not necessarily proof. Oh, that's a bit mean. Can we give him a little bit more than that? That's better. Yeah. Nice one I've ever had before. I'm happy with that. You actually ended up with about, I'd say seven, eight of a round of applause in the end if you added two both together. Sam's in Birmingham. Sam, question or answer? It's a bit of both, really. It's not really so much question, but it's a bit of an answer. Is another one of your animals with any rational fears? Yeah, I had a pony when I was eight and she had a rational fear of plastic bags. Again, I don't want any more calls on this unless it's from an animal bed, because again, is it irrational? I mean, it might be the fast moving. Do you know, like elephants historically been frightened of mice? It might be that they're frightened of things in their peripheral vision that are moving really, really quickly and bright coloured because they might be a threat. Well, the thing is, we did try her with. Feeding her an apple in the plastic bag. Oh, yeah. And then. And then she caught a bit of it on her teeth, freaked out and had a paddy attack in the. In the stable. Oh, well, that. This was your attempt to improve the fear of plastic bags. That was quite a callous laugh. Did you not like this poke? Did you not like. I mean, I always have images of eight year old girls loving their ponies more than they love life itself. It sounds like you used to torture yours. No, I think we just tried a bit of cognitive behavioral therapy on a pony at the age of eight. Yes, it did. But why would it necessarily be irrational fear? I mean, do you see what I mean? Yeah. Like you say, I suppose, like it seems irrational to us and horses have no concept of plastic bags to them. I guess it just seems like. I'm going to give you half a round of applause as well, but unless we've got an academic qualification, I don't want any more questions on. On animals or phobias. Half. Half. Here. Thank you, Sam. Whereabouts in Birmingham are you? Oh, she's gone. Greg's in Sandhurst. Greg, question or answer? Question. Go on. Do certain types of trees produce more or less oxygen than other types of trees? Yeah, of course they do. Big trees produce more than little trees. Yes, but like. Oh, sorry, mate, sorry, I knew you were going to say that. They're often. Great oak tree over there. There's the karate kids bonsai. Which one do you think creates the more oxygen. So you mean species of trees? Yes, yes, that would be. You'd imagine that the deciduous trees have a different relationship with photosynthesis than the evergreen trees, wouldn't you? For example, you'd think a Christmas tree. The question stemmed from, you know, when they build new sort of housing developments and sort of small villages, will they build new areas of accommodation? Would they choose to put or plant certain types of trees? I know. Is it probably. It's a bit tenuous. There's probably a lot in there, but I thought perhaps there might be something in that about planting more types of trees that would produce more oxygen. I like the way you're thinking. There's a nice story today about how children are healthier if they live near lots of trees, if they live near parkland. It kind of seems quite intuitive, doesn't it? But, yeah. And plane trees are very popular. Victorians would always use plane trees to line roads. I've always presumed that that's just because they grew quicker and sturdier than other species of trees. But, yeah, someone will know the answer to this. I like it, actually. There are certain trees, species of tree produce more oxygen than others, almost certainly, but give us some details. Thank you, Greg. Good question. 26 after twelve is the time mel is in Leeds. Mel, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Can you take fish to the vets? Like, is there a specific place that you need to go if your fish is Pawley? Have you got a pawley fish? No, I had one when I was younger, but I don't have one now. Well, you probably could have used a vet. Yeah, well, I didn't know if you could actually take them there. Never ever seen anyone take the fish there. I mean. Yeah, but how much time do you spend in vets? Yeah, but I've never heard of anyone actually taking the fish to a vet. Have you ever asked? No, I've never really had a reason to. I just thought it was a specific place. So a fish vet, rather than a general vet. Do vets do fish as well as mammals and reptiles and. Yeah, a friend of mine has taken a fish to a vet. Really? Yeah, I just thought, what could they do? They can't exactly, like get out the water or anything. No, but you can look at it. How would you even know if it's parley? You could. Well, I mean, why would you take it to the vet? Well, that's what I mean. How would you know if it's parley? Because they just swim around office food. Goldfish can go a bit white, the fins go. A funny color. They just look a bit sluggish, you know, won't get off the bottom of the tank every time you give it a little nudge. I mean, there's all sorts of ways in which you might be able to tell a fish. How can you tell her dogs? Poorly. Well, yeah. Just not the cells I like. I like your question, but I'm not entirely convinced by your motives. Right, okay. So I'm going to put it on the board and then we will see what transpires. 28 minutes. 28 minutes after twelve is the time fish to a vets. Vida is in Fulham. Vida. Question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on. I went to. I walked onto escalator that wasn't working, which I often do, just to say, finding another way of getting upstairs. And every time I go on one that's not working, I feel almost more out of balance than when I step on one that is moving. And by the time I come to get off it, I sort of stumble off and it doesn't make sense to me. Because it's stationary. Yes. And you know that it's stationary. Yes. I think. I think it's subconscious. I think your subconscious is preparing for the movement. I was hoping you would say this is one for Professor Howe. Why? Because he hasn't been on today. This is the James O'Brien show. It's a clue in the title. Yeah. He does have good banter with you. Yeah. You could do a double act. Let's just not yet decide. Yeah. In the way that Ray Charles and Ray Allen and Lord Charles were a double act. I shall get you. I shall do my best to get you an answer. I'm thinking subconscious conditioning is probably the answer. But you say, what are your qualifications? I say, Keith just said it in my ear. Oh, okay. Well, Keith is very clever. Let's not get carried away. It's his first time on the program and that is. I just remind you again, the James O'Brien programme. It's coming up to 12:30 why do you get that weird sense of motion when you step onto an escalator? Can you take fish to the vets? Are some trees more prominent in the production of oxygen than others? Do animals have phobias? The origin of the phrase stiff upper lip? Who designs flags? Are we going to do any answers today or we're just going to collect questions until. Until we run out of time? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Can you take your fish? I'm not sure why you're asking me that. I hope it's not urgent. Why do you go wobbly when you step onto an escalator that's not moving? Do some trees produce more oxygen than other trees? What's the best tree for oxygen? I like that question. And curious mixtures of compliments and complaints about mystery are today. I'll take that as evidence. We're doing something right and something wrong. Origin of the phrase stiff upper lip. And who designs flags? Matthew's in Belfast. Matthew. Question or answer? It's an answer, Jim. Carry on. Are you consulting your notes? You're not allowed to look things up on mystery. That is one of the rules. No, that's fair and no, I just listen to my wife every now and then. Here is a vet. Oh, yes. So that'll do. Yeah. No, it's a really weird one because I actually had this question a few weeks ago. In the UK, we don't really take fish to the vets because. Well, it's just an overwhelming thing for us. We don't really view the fish as super valuable to them. If you've got koi carp, I've had a couple of. I've had a couple of texts from people who keep koi carp saying, the vet will come to me, could come to my big koi carp. But if you've got a goldfish or something like that, you're not going to spend? 100. Costs you an arm and a leg just to get through the door of the. In America, this, you know, where big, fancy, expensive fish are a lot more popular. I think it's. Marine biologists is the official job title and they're actually really well paid and they're specific fish vets. They don't. It's not. It's not like a normal vet who does a bit of fish on the side. There might be as few as, you know, inquiry. Decision making. Inquiry. That's the word. Yep. But I think it's an aquatic veterinarian, which is a marine biologist or. They're two phrases that mean exactly the same thing in the States. Okay, here we're. There's probably a couple of specialists somewhere, but it's not going to be in general, kind of. And you'd have your. You'd have your fish, you know, especially transported to the service. They must employ them at big aquariums as well, like the one in Yarmouth or the one in Birmingham. Massive aquariums are going to have. But it wouldn't be something that your standard run of the mill vet practice would necessarily be an expert about. Nope, you're right. Qualifications. Mad to a vet. Round of applause for Matthew. A lot of money in being a vet, isn't there? There's a lot of money, but there's one heck of a lot of work as well. Oh, you can. You don't have to say yes to everything. No, I try not to, but then I get in trouble with the wife. Are you a vet? You. You're not a vet, just your wife? Yeah. I could never believe how much it costs the vet. It's incredibly one. Yeah. Anyway. 1237 Jackson, Brixton. Jack, question or answer? Oh, I've got a question. Please, come on in. Me and my girlfriend went to a national heritage thing and it said it was a world famous garden and I wondered what warrants? How? Who's the referee of it being a world famous garden? Can you just say that without warrant or. Yeah, that's kind of what I'm wondering. Could you claim your garden was world famous and, you know, if you tried to sell tickets for it, you might get done? But there's no sort of policing of the semantics or the language, is it? Oh, is it not? You wouldn't. You wouldn't say it's advertising to say, well, you'd struggle to, because all you'd need to do is find a few people in France who've heard of your garden and then you could argue that it was a world famous garden, couldn't you? What's your garden like, Jack? Oh, it's pretty good, actually. Is it? Yeah, it's quite famous now. I've got a million listeners. Oh, God. Yeah, you now have a famous garden. You now have a famous garden. Talk us through it. I'm going to go world famous, James. I don't know. You'd have to ring for that. You probably have to, I don't know, ring an australian phone in Charles. I mean, tell him that you're the curator of the garden that featured on the James O'Brien program on LBC radio, and you're available for interviews about horticultural matters. And then you become Jack in the world famous Brixton garden. Oh, God. See? Thanks. You're welcome. Got careful. You didn't just step on a hoe, did you, Jack? No, I just. A bit shocked. My garden's so famous. I don't really know. Send us a picture and I'll stick out on Twitter and then it'll be even more famous. Seriously, we'll do this. We're going to make Jack's garden famous. It's the kind of thing we do. Eric's in new Malden. Eric, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The person who makes flights flags is a vexillologist. A water one. A vexillologist. Oh, what a great word. It is a nice word, vexillologist. And they design flags. They design flags. They study and design flags. Vexillologist. Qualifications. Well, when I was at university, we were talking about if Puerto Rico became a state and we needed to add a star to the american flag. Who do you hire to do that? And two of the kids in the class were arguing over whether it was a vexillologist or another great word, a tessellationist. Because a tessellationist is somebody who does design, like tiles, how things are arranged. I should have gone to this school. I've been a lot better than talking about rugby all the time. Is it a vexillologist or a tessellationist? That's my kind of school. There you go. Penn State. Penn State. And the vexillologist came out on top. The vexillologist vanquished the tessellationist. Sadly, I'm sure the tessellation will still be fine, but in this instance, it was a taser. Vexilar. It's a bit game of thrones, this as well. So I. Yes, so it is just an area of study and there probably aren't as many of them as they used to be, but that is that you need a vexillologist if you need to redesign or design a new flag first, apparently, first you study the history of them. Yeah, you can go ahead and start making your own. I'd probably been ruined completely by the Internet, because one of the reasons why you'd have to study the history of them is to make sure you didn't sell someone a flag that already existed. So you'd have to have some sort of frame of reference and memory. But now you could just design a flag and do a Google image search and see if anything else came up, and if your flag already existed, then you wouldn't be able to sell your new flag to someone else. Tough times for vexillologists. Round of applause for Eric. Put your teeth in. A try again. Adam is also in New Malden. Do you know Eric? Have you ever come across Eric? He's an american, he knows lots of long words. American guy, went to Penn State. Possibly. I might know him. I might have been. I might have worked for him at some point. Are you serious? Yeah, possibly. Hang on. Eric, are you still there? Eric? Eric's gone. Crikey. I was only joking. That was mysterious. Question or answer, Adam? It's an answer. Carry on to the tree question. Basically, oaks and redwoods produce more oxygen and other trees because they're more efficient at breaking down the water, the tree, to produce oxygen. Larger trees produce. Mature trees produce less oxygen, but growing trees produce more oxygen. Makes sense, doesn't it? Qualifications? I'm an arborist. An arborist. Ah. So you think you might have tended to Eric's trees? Yes, possibly, yeah. So that's why I was confused, because I thought if you thought he was your boss, then you probably would know both his name and his accent. But if you just. If he's just a client and you might once have, I don't know, trimmed his hedges, then it would not necessarily have stuck in your memory quite as completely. I like that a lot. So if I wanted to produce the maximum amount of oxygen in my garden, I should have oaks? Yeah, you should have oak trees, definitely. And if you wanted a tree that was going to reduce pollution, you want plane trees, London planes, because they absorb a lot of pollution. So it wasn't an accident, then? That's what lined most streets in the sort of last hundred years? No, no. Generally, as a rule, they do. They absorb a lot of pollution from. From the streets and stuff. When you do work on, they produce so much dust and, I mean, they're hideous to work on, but they. They are good for the environment and in the town, so. Oh, what a lovely answer. You got yourself a round of applause. What's a really rubbish tree for? Oxygen. Like the real kind of. Real geek of trees. Oh, well, I reckon conifers. Any sort of conifer, really. Yep. There were seventies fad. So were they? Is that why we've got. Still got so many. And an evergreen tree is going to be producing less oxygen than a deciduous tree, but it's going to be producing it all year round, whereas a deciduous tree is only going to be producing it during the months. Exactly. Whoa, Adam. What a lovely answer. Have a round of applause, my friend. Thank you very much. And I shall give your regards to Eric. Thank you. Find out if he was pleased with your work. It's going to be a bit embarrassing if the tree died, isn't it, mate? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe, maybe. Don't mention. Okay, I won't, I won't. I'll leave. Just between you and me, 1243 is the time Colin is in Ricell. Question or answer, Colin? Answer, James. To do with the escalators? Oh, yes. I was in a shopping centre and the escalator was out of action and there was a big sign explaining why. Oh, yeah. When you run upstairs, they're all the same height and your body knows that you are running upstairs, so they all say eight inches. The risers. Yeah. Yeah. When you're on an escalator, you're walking down and the top step is at the most highest point. And as you get down, the stairs get shorter and shorter and your brain cannot correlate with your feet that you're walking on stairs, but the stairs are getting shorter. That's why you will fall. But you get. You get wobbly the minute you step on it, before you've even taken a step. When you're still on the flat bit at the bottom. Colin. Yeah, because, hang on, there's someone calling you. Colin. There's someone calling. Do you want to deal with that? Yeah. There we go. Carry on. Where were we? Because when you get on an escalator, your body's automatically is going to move and it's not. And then you've got to start moving. Yeah, exactly. That's what I meant by kind of. What did we call it? What did Keith call it? Conditioning. What do you mean you've forgotten? It's your first time. I'll miss you. Out. Subconscious conditioning, mate, innit? Yeah. It's not my first time. I've been on before. Not you. I'm talking to Keith now. Just like you just took a minute out to let someone into the garden. Who was that? Who was that? It was a neighbor. Oh, okay. I've got Professor Hal on the other line. Does that. Does that fill you with fear or excitement? Excitement. Let's find out what he's got to say. Professor Howe. Hello, James, how are you? Very well. How? I'm a little late for the next break, so be brief. If you could. Yeah, this is actually. It's not subconscious conditioning, it's called classical conditioning. It is subconscious, though? Yes, it is. It's all stimulus a and your response b. So you expect the escalator to be moving. Exactly. And it's all summed up by Pavlov and his dogs. You ring a bell, you feed them. After a while you ring a bell. You don't feed them, but they still salivate. They become conditioned. So we're salivating, metaphorically speaking, every time we step on the escalator. Yes, it's one big metaphor and it does seem to work on this occasion. Colin, are you cool with that? I am indeed. Right, round of applause all round. Thank you. That really didn't work. For me, because I was hoping Colin was going to say something, then Professor Howell would come on and completely contradict him. And I was going to say, well, this has escalated. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Tom's in France. How do I know that? Well, his Twitter account says, tom in France. I live in France. He adds helpfully, can you let me have more details about Jack's gardens, please? It's world famous. Yes, it's in Brixton. There you go. Jack in Brixton. Wondering what criteria allows someone to claim that a garden is world famous? Me concluding that there isn't any. Anyone can claim their garden is world famous. And given that he talked about his garden on this program, his garden is now nationally famous. But we have listeners outside of this country, as you know. Therefore, arguably, you could say that his garden was world famous. But there is some dissent in the studio. People feel it was a proper question that should have been treated more properly in pursuit of a proper answer. Well, you're nuts. What do you think? There's like a world famous garden board touring around the world going, yes, you're world famous. But you're not. You just stick it on. You say, it's world famous, I'm world famous. I'm on Alexa. My ten year old said to Alexa the other night, who's James O'Brien? And it told her, that's world famous. But am I as famous as Jack's garden? I don't know. Are you? Who knows? It's a garden. Let's make gardens. Let's make Jack's garden world famous. That is the mission. We're going to set ourselves in the spirit of mischief making radio. So if you are listening to this. Oh, I need to make sure Jack's cool with it. I need to make sure he's got a garden. He might have just sort of choked under pressure on live radio and claimed to have a garden when Bailey got a window box. That would be embarrassing, but we'll make his window box world famous. But we need to clear a Jack, get some pictures, get a little bit of marketing in place, maybe do some sort of, you know, cool logos, could get. Get a vexillologist involved, a bit of a hashtag going on. Hashtag Jack's garden world. Hashtag worldfamous, that car. We're gonna make his garden world famous if he's up for it. All right. Jen's in Bristol. Jen, question or answer? It's an answer and it's not really a steward's inquiry. But I have taken my fish to the vet. I have. How did you. What utensil did you use? A plastic clear plastic bag. It's not that funny. I mean, your fish could have died. What was wrong with the fish? It was kind of swimming to one side. It wasn't swimming straight, it was like swimming on its side. So it used to swim straight and then it started swimming. Yeah, on its side. And it was a little lion headed goldfish and it had little markings above its eyes that made it look like it was always surprised. How did life. I know, and I loved it so much. Like it had botox. My son's now going, was it real? Yes, when I was little. Can you love a fish? I loved this fish. I used to tap the glass and it would swim over to me. That frightened. I put my hand in the water to clean out the tank and it was swimming to my hand. That's probably actually what made it sick, now I think of it. And did the vet. Did the vet treat your fish? It gave me some medicine. They told me to quarantine the fish. So I put the fish in the separate. Because I had others in the tank? Yes. And then the whole tank died. I mean, it was clearly a very long time ago, otherwise you wouldn't be laughing quite so uproariously at the carnage of your fish. Kind of laughed in the vets as well, because you do feel a bit of an ana medicine either. He just said, we got a live one here. Give her. Give her one of those little bottles with water in it and then she can go home and look after her fish. Exactly. Well, I'll give you a round of applause for having such a nice laugh, but I'm not sure your contribution was very substantive. 1253 is the time rich has been in touch, he says. Is Jack's garden by the skateboard park? If it is, I've seen it and it's stunning. It's world famous, mate. Paul is in Richmond. Paula, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Any animal that can experience pain or emotions such as fear, is capable of developing a phobia. So. But that's rational? Yes, but it goes back to the basic principles of classical conditioning, basic principles of psychology. So if an animal experiences a trauma or pain in a particular situation, yes. They then have a negative emotional reaction or association to that situation, and that situation then becomes a trigger for the fight or flight response over a period of time that escalates into a fear or phobia that would hold true for humans. So I keep obsessing about the meaning of the word rational. But actually, if someone is terrified of buttons or terrified of clowns, if you went back far enough into their subconscious and their past, you would find a reason. Absolutely. There has been a trigger for that. And it is a neurological pathway into the fight or flight response. It's an involuntary response. They can't control a fear, especially when you go into fight or flight, because the adrenal intake, that's what it's there for. Could be a beautiful answer. Qualifications? I'm a canine behaviorist. Are you? I am. Well, there you go. What's the strangest thing you've ever encountered? A dog being scared of? Oh, that's a good question. Carrier bags. But that. That's because they get stuck in one and then it feels like the bag is chasing them. Well, it can actually be. Some animals are very, very noise sensitive and they develop quite big phobias. Yeah, but I was hoping for something funnier than that, Paula. I'm not. Sorry. No, I'm afraid. You ever met a dog that's frightened of clowns? Well, many dogs would probably be frightened of clowns because they're quite peculiar looking and if they haven't been socialized to it. Absolutely. Yes, absolutely. Because the bad horses. Horses that are afraid of drains. Are elephants. Are elephants afraid of mice? I can't comment on that one. I haven't had a chance to work with much elephants, but I'm getting a canine behavioralist. That's not enormously surprising. But if they haven't been socialized to it. Absolutely. There's another reason they could be. Can we give Paula a round of applause, please? Thank you, Paula. Time now for more news about Jack's world famous garden. This is from this the right way around. I need to get my right people. This is from Tamara. Jack's garden is already world famous. I'm listening. Live in Andalusia. Thank you. Ian says Jack's Brixton garden is famous here in Bogota in Colombia, and Bob's in Girona in Spain. He says, I know of Jack's world famous garden. We're crossing borders now. It's amazing. Of course, it'll have to close after Brexit. Simon's in Littlehampton. Simon, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Yes. Bit late in the day, I know, but I'm a diabetic type one. I regularly test during the day with my little gadget, which gives me a reading of my blood sugar as it stands. Yes. And I've just done one because I'm getting ready to have my lunch and my blood level of 5.2 in my left hand. I did an immediate test in my right hand and I got 5.4. So even though I should know the answer, I'm really fascinated to know why I've got two different readings out of two different fingers. Try and get you an answer. We've got about a minute to do it, but I like that. And it was in the nick of time. I mean, are we sure that it measures that accurately? Does it have to be really accurate? No, it is pretty accurate. The. The 5.2 in my left hand was followed within seconds by an account of. Good, good level, then healthy today. Yeah, totally. Yeah. My doctors six month test, which is a reading of your previous six months. Yes, I did get a gold star from my doctor because it was reading 5.8. I'm very glad to hear it. That's the good news. The bad news is that the seconds you've used to tell me that could have been the seconds in which we would have got an answer to the question that you've asked. But I won't be defeated until you're here. 1257 is the time. Billy is on the Isle of Wight. Inventor. Billy, question or answer? Hi. It's an answer, James, but I don't know how much of a good answer it will be. It's regarding the. You know, someone mentioned earlier about the stiff upper lip. Yes. Origin of the phrase. Yeah, I'm pretty sure it comes. And this goes back to my a level studies. I'm pretty sure it comes from sort of the war era, because I studied british films as part of my a level course. And it was the a level course. That's a hobby. Well, I didn't end up studying at university, so, gosh, it was a hobby. It was fun to do, and we literally just had to sit down and watch movies. And part of the. I suppose you could say the course content was the idea of something being quintessentially british. I think I may have even gone to the extent of writing a short essay on it. But anyway, it's cut a long story short, I'm pretty sure it goes back to the war era, where, you know, everyone had to make do and mend, basically. And, yes, I mean, you're kind of right, but politely, we kind of knew that. And it definitely goes back further than the war. It goes at least into the 19th century. Thanks for playing, but no cigar. And that sounds brutal, but I'm only moving on quickly so I can squeeze in Jeremy and Bracknell. On the diabetes question. How can you have different readings in different fingers? Jeremy? Very straightforward. Two simple reasons. One, it could be the sticks that you're using. If you've touched the stick, it's got a little bit of something on it, it could read very slightly differently. And second, and more importantly, blood isn't a stuff that's totally uniform. It's like chicken soup. You took two ladles, five bits of carrot in one, two bits of carrot in another. Brilliant. That's enough. Dango chickas. Sheila's here. Qualifications. Well done. Thank you, doctor. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. Don't forget, if you get the chance to visit Jack's world famous garden in Brixton, here's Sheila Fogarty. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten. Only on LBC.