What's the easiest record to break?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. 1203. Excuse a moi. 1203 is the time and mystery hour is upon as your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. Say it like you mean it, James, honestly. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial three minutes after twelve and if you haven't listened to it before, you're in for a treat. You ring in with a question, someone else rings in with an answer. Don't be silly. We've been doing it for years now, more years than I care to remember, but so some really, really obvious questions will have been dealt with on a million occasions. I can't, however, outlaw repetition because I don't have the brains or the memory to do so. And I'm afraid I've forgotten. I've forgotten what we talked about in the first hour of the program, never mind everything that's ever popped up on mystery hour over the years. But I can tell you that my favorite contribution to this week's edition of Mystery Hour will receive. Wait for it. Wait for it. A mystery hour board game, which is a lovely bit of kit and is available at Mysteryad Dot co dot UK or in John news and shortly, I'm delighted to tell you, in Wh Smith's as well, we think. So. Hold on to your hats for that. And that is it. The management's decision is final and the full terms and conditions are at LBC dot co dot UK, four minutes off the 12th. Shall we crack straight on and do without the introductions? I think we let ourselves down a bit last week, lads. I felt that the. There were too many questions still on the board and this is my fault. So I don't. If I don't do regular roundups of unanswered questions, I don't get as many answers as I would otherwise get. I don't know why that is, because I like to think everyone is there with their alarm set, tuning in at twelve. But I'm obviously wrong. And also, no, even if you are tuned in at twelve, you're not going to remember the first three questions by the time we get to 20 to one, aren't you? That's my job. That's literally my job. And last week I let you down and I take full responsibility for that. Just like Suella Braveman has done for the immigrant. Oh no. Still got no idea where she is. Robert Jenrick is doing it to the House of Commons. Why? Why isn't the home secretary doing it? Very odd business, isn't it? Anyway, on we go. Chris is in. Welling. Question or answer? Hey, James, it's a question. Carry on. So, my question is, all the kinds of scissors and nail clippers, how do people cut their toenails? So, I get it with fingernails, you can chew them, but, I mean, I can't get my toes to my mouth. Were they getting somebody else to chew their toenails? Or. I mean, you would have a. What? You could use a stone, couldn't you? I mean, that's going to be quite painful. I can't imagine having claws. Well, I mean, how far back do you have to go? I mean, you're talking neolithic almost, aren't you, on this? I mean, you'd have had. You'd have had sharp blades from pretty much quite early on in civilization. No? Yeah, but I mean, I guess that the first sharp blades would have been things like swords and knives. They'd have been tiny little things for scooping stuff, like scooping a snail out of its shell or a muscle so that you could eat it. But, I mean, this doesn't answer your question. I just. I'm just trying to work out how good a question it is. What sort of era, what sort of period we'll be talking about? I mean, I wondered it for ages. I find cutting nails really satisfying. And I just always thought, how the hell did they do their toenails? I've got two inappropriate stories to share with you, Chris, if you're interested. The first is, I haven't tried for a while, but I could actually get my toes into my mouth for much of my life. And I did, on occasion, bite my own toenails off. Maybe you've answered the question, then. Is that a round of applause for you, then, Joe? I can't prove it. I certainly can't go definitive. And the second thing. The second thing is arguably even stranger, which is about three or four months after starting therapy, I was having a bit of a scratch. Chris, I don't want to go into too much details, but if we say it was a mildly intimate scratch. Right, and it really hurt, I went, what the hell? Ow. And I realized that after 40 years or more of biting my fingernails, after two or three months of therapy, I had just stopped without noticing, and my fingernails had consequently grew to such a length that I hurt myself scratching. I'm not sure how to respond to that, but I think you responded in exactly the right way, Chris. I think you responded in exactly the right way. It's a remarkable tale of therapy. Thank you, Chris. What did we do? How did we cut our toenails before? You know, there were implements that make cutting your toenails easy. There's quite a strong chance we didn't. I presume, you know, they grow to a certain level. You just snap them off when they get really long. I mean, who's going to know? That's an excellent question. I might start giving questions. Odds. I'm going to do this for one week, which means I'll forget by 1217 odds of getting an answer. I'm going to give that one. Eight to one. Eight to one odds on getting an answer to that one. Ian's in Liverpool. Ian, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Ian. So, first time caller, welcome. Above me, if I'm a little bit nervous. Thank you. It's only me. So we know that salting the earth is a bad thing. It kills everything. And there was a news report which kind of sparked my thinking and my question on this. Yes. And we know that salting the earth is the bad thing, so why describe somebody as the salt of the earth as a good thing? What does that mean? I think. I think we'll just focus on the second bit. We won't necessarily bring into it the contradiction. The apparent contradiction. With salt of the earth. With salting the earth. I think it's probably biblical. Is it? Oh, no. Because salting the earth is. Salt of the earth. I love that question. What is. What is. What's the origins of the phrase salt of the earth? Why do we talk about the salt of the earth as a good thing? Yeah, you're on. I'm going to give that one to three odds on. One to three. One to three odds on. I'll be amazed if you don't get an answer to that. But, you know, what do I know about anything? We shall. Right, we're on. Salt of the earth for Ian and toenails for Chris. All human life is here. Nine minutes after twelve, Maria is in Croydon. Maria, question or answer? I have a question, James. Yes. So I have a bit of baby brain saying that I have really bad baby brain. So my memory was absolutely sharp until the point I gave birth. Are you sure you could be misremembering. No. As a civil servant. It was completely. It was very, very good. And then the moment I gave birth, my memory completely went. And my memory is really, really bad now. So I want to know, why is that and what I can do to get it back or does it come back? Well, you're only really allowed one question, so I don't know. I don't know that I can let you get the answer to how you can get it back. Okay, well, then what happens? Why does the memory go immediately after you've given birth? It's a good question. There was a story about this not that long ago because, I mean, everyone I know has had a baby recognizes this to one degree or another. But I'm afraid, ironically enough, Maria, I can't remember the details of the story, but I'm not laying claim to ever having had a brilliant memory. I'll find out for you. You've got to be in with a good. What do you reckon? Evens on that, Keith? Give that one even. I don't think this is going to be a permanent feature of mystery. Is it me putting odds on the likelihood of getting an answer to every single question? In fact, I think I might stop now. I might. So that makes Chris and Ian collect. Do you want to put some odds on your question, Maria? Not working, is it? It's not working as an addition to mystery out of this at all, is it? Brutal. Evens. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Clive's in Basingstoke. Clive, question or answer? It's a question. Blaze, Holmes. Carry on, Clive. Whenever you hear a pigeon cooing from a tree, you hear this. Well, this has taken a turn. You hear a pigeon, it coos. It always finishes. Why, why doesn't it carry on that sequence of five? Did you just do that noise yourself or have you got a train? You haven't got a train? No, that's. I'm self trained. Pigeon whistler. Wow. You know, it takes all sorts. So it's the final one. I mean, isn't that a bit like. I mean, what makes you think there might be a reason? Why don't they just carry on? It's strange just to finish like that. It's not, it's a sight. They're cycles, aren't they? Doesn't do it again. It's a, it's a cycle. It's just, you're not, you're just not noticing the bit. The first bit is the same as the last bit, but because it's got the last bit coming after the first bit, you're not noticing that it's cyclical? No. There's always five. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, so it goes five, five, one. Yep. Not 5151? No, 551551. I think it's breathing in. Well, they must all breathe the exact same way then if we. I mean, it's a shame, Clive, that I've just abolished my six minute old addition to mistrial, where I was going to assign odds to every question that was likely to get an answer because you could have been our first ever 1000 to one shot on this. But unfortunately, thanks to Maria, I've already abolished that. That wizard wheeze. But I will put your question on the list nonetheless. Why do pigeons just do that? Little final short note at the end of their normal coup. That's it. Go on, once more before we go. Are you doing that just with your mouth and everything? My hands clenched and blown in between my thumbs. Where's your phone then? The dashboard of the car. That's why the line's not good. But that's the price you pay sometimes for radio magic. That's what radio was invented for. If we can't help Clive out, then frankly, I don't know what we. I don't know why we're here. I don't know why we turn up to work every day if we can't help Clive out without beautiful sounds. Beautiful sounds. I should have got my chirpomatic app out, shouldn't I? To see whether or not my chiropomatic app recognized the pigeon noises that Clive was making. As a pigeon, I love my chirp o matic hat. You can often see me strolling around west London, pointing my phone at trees for indiscernible reasons and then wondering why it never works. And the answer, of course, is that I live on a flight path. But it's great in the countryside. It's 12:15 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. I can't do it. I never could do that. I can't do that. I can't do a big whistle. No, it's not it, is it? Anyway, if you just tuned in. Me neither. Lena is in. Lena is in Stanmore. Lena. Question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. I have a very generic dog whistle. Can you do it for us? Well, no. Would it work over the radio? No. I mean, not like a whistle whistle with my fingers. No, no, I know. I'm just wondering because the dog whistle. Humans can't hear it, can they? Well, I don't know. Well, can't. Well, you do know when you blow your dog whistle, can you hear it slightly? Oh, you can hear something. I thought they were supposed to be like a tiny, tiny whistle thing, but the dog hears it really loudly. Yes. No, we probably. Would it work over the radio. It doesn't matter now because if you can hear it, I just wanted a silent whistle that only dogs can hear. And then we play that over the radio and see whether or not other people's dogs who are listening go a bit do lally. That would have been an interesting experiment. Well, you see, this is it. It's like when I blow my dog whistle. Is that a George Formby song? When I blame our dog whistle. Thank you. Thank you for meeting. Thank you for meeting my madness head on there. Lina. That was perfectly done. Every day. Perfectly done. Go on. When you blow your dog whistle, only my dogs come back. Oh, why wouldn't any of the other dogs come back? Could it be that all dog whistles are ever so slightly differently calibrated? Really? I don't know. I'm just trying to. You know how it works. You eliminate the impossible. Whatever you are left with, however improbable, must be the answer. Well, you know, when there's a. When there's like a batch load of them and you'll be, you know, they're all the same, you would think that there's going to be a same manufacturing line for this dog. Really would. I mean, yeah, of course, you're right. The manufacturing complications involved in having ever so slightly different pitched dog whistles are offshore. Who's going to do that then? What about the first time you used it? Did you train your dogs to recognize the sound of your dog whistle? No, I was just playing about with it. I thought, oh, let's give this a go, because usually I just whistle and they come back. I thought, let me just give this a go. Give it a toot. Give it a toot. That's the chorus. That's the chorus. And it works. So why'd the dog work? So everyone with a dog whistle should theoretically be like a pied piper of dogs whenever they go to the park? That's a great question. Why doesn't everyone with a dog whistle get inundated with dog action? Thank you, Lena. Thank you, Lena. You're on the list. Zero. 345-606-0973 so how did we cut our toenails before toenail cutters were invented? What is the origin of the phrase salt of the earth? Why do pigeons do the 5151? Why do they do that little final mini coup on the end of their coos? What is the scientific explanation for baby brain? And when you blow a dog whistle, why doesn't every dog in town come running towards you? Craig is in Lawrencekirk in Aberdeenshire. Craig question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Is it easier to swim from the deep end to the shallow end or the shallow end to the deep end in a standard swimming pool, doing the same stroke? Sounds like a riddle. Sounds like the opening to a riddle and that you've got the answer. But it must be easier from the shallow end. What do you mean by easier? Is it easy? Does it. Well, can you swim quicker or does it take less effort? But I mean, it depends what you mean. What you're saying is if you kick, if you've got your feet on the ground when you start, or if you're just holding the side. Because you could start from the shallow end without having your feet on the ground, couldn't you? Yes, indeed. Yeah, but you mean. You mean you've got your feet on the ground in the shape. Well, it's got to be quicker because you're kicking off, aren't you, for using your feet? I know, but you can do that the other way around, especially on back kick off. You know, it just feels to me that as the water gets shallow easier. As the water gets shallower, it gets easier. You think you speed up as you approach the shallow end? I think so, yes. But my wife thinks the opposite. This is the strangest question in ages, isn't it? So it's got nothing to do with the starting off point? You think that the depth of the water affects the speed through which you. The speed with which you move through it? I think so. I think so, yes. And your wife completely disagrees, or she thinks it's the other way round? She thinks it's the other way around. She thinks it's easier the deeper the water. So you're both persuaded that the depth of the water affects the speed with which you move through it, but you're in disagreement about which way round it is. Correct. That's marriage, Craig. Indeed. Let's find out. I don't know if we will, but we will do our best. 22 minutes after twelve. It's all got a bit vintage this week. I like it. Hector's in Southampton. Hector, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So I was reading a scientific paper about memory. Get you. Hey, with your scientific papers. Go on. I know I'm quite boring. It's not boring, it's about memory. Memory recall. When you're recalling a memory. Yes. The same pattern of neurons firing that occurred at the time is replayed. So the woman on the phone was like, if she wants to remember a song about Jesus, she sung in primary school, her brain would have to replay that pattern of neurons that she now, she experienced at the time. And I want to know, how does your brain know to recall or replay that pattern of neurons? Bloody hell, Hector. I told you I was boring. That's not boring, mate. I hate it when clever people describe themselves as boring. So it's a. It's a. It's a failing of our education system. It's just making my head hurt a bit. Do you understand the question there? Yeah. Well, hang on, don't spoil it. Actor. So we have. So you think of. Let's. Let's use the phrase memory bank. Okay? Just for simplicity. So if we think of a memory bank as containing countless files. Yeah. You want to know how the brain knows which file to pull out? Yeah. Because there's no reason. Because. Because in a way, you'd need to be able to see which file it was to know which one to pull out. But you can't see which one it was because you haven't pulled it out yet. Yeah. And if you need. If you. If it needs to know which file to pull out, surely we'll have to have another file to know that file. That's kind of what I mean. So how does. How does it. Right. I mean, if I still did odds on mystery hour questions, I'd give you a slightly better chance than Clive with his pigeons. I'd put you on, but I'd still be sticking you way out there on about 500 to one. But I shall do my best to find out. I've understood the question. How does your brain know which memory to recall, if you like? Because it fires the same neurons that were fired at the time of the original experience. How on earth does it do that? I think, actually, I'm going to take that. I think I'm going to shorten your odds massively. Actually, I'm going to bring them down to tens or twenties, or at least I would if I was still doing that failure of a feature on Mistria, because someone will know that. That will probably be. That will probably be an area of study. Hector. Thank you. You stick with it, with the scientific papers, mate. Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. 25 minutes after twelve is the time. Laura is in Sheffield. Laura, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on. Laura. It was about the dog whistle question. Oh, yes. I mean, a very simple answer to that would be that not all dogs are whistle trained. But she didn't think her dog was whistle trained. But you're telling us that it is actually, whether she realizes it or not. Yeah, it will be because as she's blowing the whistle, the dog's come over to her just to investigate. Probably the very first time it ever did it. Oh, why are you making that noise? And it's. Look, it's my own. Oh, crikey, there's a coincidence. Hello. Yeah, yeah. Maybe even get a biscuit or something like that. Or even just a little cuddle. Exactly. So a bit of attention, bit of praise. Oh, you've listened to the whistle, well done. Bit of force. That dog then goes, ah, that that noise gets. And it's classical conditioning is for once, the light bulb goes off. So if Lina were to make, if she were to go into the park, blow her whistle, and she did attract some random dogs, if she were to make a fuss of them, she would become the pied piper of dogs in her life. Yeah, she gives them a biscuit, she'll have a whole herd of them following her out of the park. That's what Keith's like. Honestly, I wish I'd never given him a biscuit. I can't get rid of him. Qualifications? I'm a dog behaviourist. That is a beautiful answer. Have a round of applause. Thanks very much. Perfect. Even if Lena disputes your answer because she can't remember making a fuss of the dog the first time she used the whistle, that is a correct answer. My decision is final. It's all in the terms and conditions. 26 minutes after twelve, Stephen's in Alcaldeza in Spain. Stephen, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's a question. Please carry on. Statistically, what is the easiest Guinness world record to break? That's a nice. Are you thinking you've got some charity work on the. On the horizon, or are you just curious if I can find a relatively simple one to break? I might make a bit of money, someone. I just want to know what the easiest one is. Let's have a think. I mean, it probably like making something big that most people can't be bothered to make, don't you think? Like the world's biggest omelette or something. But you need a big pad. Yeah. And if some people can't bother to make it, then it's really gonna be a bit of a pain to do. I want something that's relatively simple, yet it's going to furnish me with a medal saying, I'm the Guinness world Record holder of that. There is a flaw in your plan, of course. 1.46 million floors, to be precise. Stephen, you're going to have to explain that one to me, James, I'm afraid. Embarrassing now that I have to. But that is how many listeners that this program currently enjoys, every single one of which could potentially hear the answer to your question and therefore determine immediately that they too, will seek to break the easiest world record to break. You know, I had no idea you had that many listeners. Well, I don't like to talk about it. Very good news, by the way. Congratulations. Thank you. Probably to be the first at something, but again, that the floor, the 1.46 million floors in your thinking this morning or this afternoon could come back to haunt you. But we will find out. We will find out. Well, we will try. We will try. I mean, it's a tricky one, but I like it. I've thought that myself in the past. I have wondered that myself in the past. So, to recap, it's a lovely collection of questions. We should start hopefully collecting a few more answers now. How did prehistoric people cut their toenails? Or at least pre clipper people? That's like pre clipper people. It's a phrase, you know, it goes, neanderthal, neolithic, pre clipper, homo sapiens. How did pre clipper people cut their toenails? What is the origin of the phrase as a complement? The salt of the earth. Why do pigeons do that? Little mini coup at the end of a run of coos that isn't a part of any other coos? Does the depth of the water affect the speed with which you can swim through it? And if so, which way round is it? Zero. 345-606-0973 how does your memory know? What? How does your brain know what memory when you're trying to remember? What's the name of that guy? How does your brain know where to go for the memory? Forget an answer to that? Well, it's a weird one there. And what's the easiest world record to break? It's coming up to 12:30 and. Sorry, I forgot. You think I've done it deliberately, won't you? That I've deliberately forgotten Maria's baby brain question as a kind of complicated joke on forgetfulness. But I haven't. I just wrote it down wrong. And why? What is baby brain? It's obviously real. I'm inundated with women telling me that they have suffered or are suffering from it. So what is baby brain? What's the scientific or biological explanation? It's coming up to 12:30 Tim Humphrey is here with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-56-0609 712 33. In order to distract from the fact that his home secretary has disappeared, Rishi Sunak has told morning television that his favorite author is Gilly Cooper. I mean, what does one make of that? Gilly Cooper? I love Gilly Cooper. I love her novels. Or at least I did when I was a 15 year old boy who was handed the book in a dormitory at boarding school and surprised to discover that you could hold it in the palm of your hand and it would fall open at certain places. But he's. He can't have said it was his favorite author, Gilly Cooper. I don't think he's read any Gilly Cooper in his life. He's just googled what do normal people read on holiday? And it came about Gilly Cooper. Well, I know that would mean he would be using Google in about 1988, but anyway, there it is. Still no sign of Suede Bravaman. But Rishi Sunak's cultural hinterland extends to Jilly Cooper, which, oddly, seems feasible, doesn't it? Back to Mistry at 1234 is the time Danny's in Leeds. Danny, question or answer? It's an answer for you, James. Carry on, Danny. Yeah. Regarding the swimming pool question about the depth of the water. Oh, yeah, yeah. It does actually make a difference. And the deeper the water, the faster you will swim. Really? Yeah. It's all to do with the feedback of the water. So you've got a lot more movement in shallower water when you're swimming, the waves are coming back at you. So there's more resistance. More resistance, yeah, a lot more resistance, yeah. Can you remember which way round it was, whether it was Craig or his wife who thought it was. I think it was Craig's wife who's right, wasn't it? Yeah. Craig's wife, right, yeah. What are your qualifications? I'm a triathlete. I do a lot of swimming. Yeah. Because I've noticed in different swimming pools I swim differently. Right. And also the, the other thing that affects it is whether there's any walls at the side of the pool. Some pools are level with the side of the pool, so they'd be a lot easier to swim in. So when you get the waves that just go over the side and down the grate, whereas if you've got a wall, some pools of walls are higher than the water. So you're getting feedback off the walls as well. Well, I never. I mean, how. I mean, you triathletes swim in the sea usually, or in open water, but not, not when you're training? Yeah. No, when we're training, obviously, as well, during winter when I was in a pool. But the Olympic pools that you see on Sally, when the race, the pools are all of equal depth, usually 3 meters. I never knew that. There's no deep end in a proper pool then. A proper competitive pool. No, completely level. Are you still trying 3 meters deep? Well, you live and learn. That's quite deep, isn't it? Are you still competing now? Yeah, still training now. I'm Barcelona in October. What's that for? The comment? No, what's happening in Barcelona? So it's an iron man. So it's a 2.4 miles sea swim, followed by 112 miles hunt bike and a marathon run at the end. God, mate, I'm already busy. I've already got something on. Otherwise. Oh, I'd have loved that. That would have been great. Well, best of luck with it. I'll give you a round of applause in the meantime. Okay, mate. No, likewise, Danny. Take care, man. Look at that. Absolutely completely humbled. I'm not a bit intimidated. Steve's in Benfleet. Steve, question or answer? So answer. James, carry on. Regarding the Guinness World record. Yeah, so your caller, before, I had the exact same thought many years ago, looked into it, and what I discovered was the easiest ones to break were fancy dress running ones. Now, Guinness, a few years ago, brought out all these new records. So basically different categories of fancy dress to run as fast as you can, even a marathon or half marathon, right. And I basically, I found one which was dressing as a charity awareness ribbon, half marathon. But they set the bar so low initially. So it's basically 2 hours. So you could pick any fancy dress. Right. And it was 2 hours, and then you could basically get yourself a Guinness World record. And that's what I did. I ran half marathon dress as a charity awareness ribbon, and I got a world record certificate. But then it got beat. And then because the bar was set so low, all these different types of fancy dress keep getting beat. I mean, there's some crazy ones where people run half marathons in a set of handcuffs and they run in 1 hour 20 or a full marathon in under 3 hours in a set of handcuffs. And they get a Guinness certificate. They get a Guinness certificate. So there's a cat. Go on. I only had it for nine months. Had it for nine months. Not bad. And we were talking about it around the. No, it's not bad at all. Talking around about a Christmas day, I said, it's probably gone. Looked at it and, yeah, found that Christmas day, that same year that it gone. But you keep the certificate, though? Yeah, keep the certificate. Did you make the book? Did you make the book? No, I chased them up for it, and I was like, please put me in the book. We don't know yet they made a book. So you've got, you've got a different category for every mode of fancy dress. And not only there's loads of different modes of fancy dress, but also you can enter your own. So hypothetically. So Steve needs to come up with a fancy dress that no one has ever run in before and then do a tiki cheeky half marathon at a fairly average pace. And it'll be all right for under 2 hours. Yeah. For a few months, you could have. If there was. If there was enough pressure, I think, and enough want from the public, you could be fastest half marathon or fastest marathon dressed as a James O'Brien impersonator. That's just weird. It's because there's so many records, obviously, that have got to a point where I can't be beaten. They're just constantly looking for new categories. So keep it alive. Yeah. And that's why you always see at the end of every London marathon, because London's quite good for it. There'll be at least 50 world records every. Absolutely no idea. And, I mean, this is a Ray Liotta moment, I think, because you actually did research the easiest world record in the world to break, and you broke it or not even break. You invented it. No, it was already invented. They invented. They ventured it at the Toronto. It was a category already invented. The Toronto half marathon. Yeah. And I don't know whether someone said it or someone kind of, they just set it up as a target, and then all you have to do was 2 hours. You had to get under 2 hours, and then you became the world record holder. Correct. What did you do? The scary thing was I did it in what I did in 1 hour, 49 seconds, 49 minutes dead. Okay. And then the previous week for the ladies one, it was 140 919. So, I mean, I thought I couldn't. I couldn't go around saying, I've got a world record. Actually, there's a lady in Canada who's faster than me by how many. So, yeah, I had. I had that, but then it's now down at 142. But are you gonna let them. Are you just gonna leave it, Steve? Are you gonna let them rob your title like that, or are you going to come back at them, like, coming over? I'll let one of my kids try it. I'm getting too old and too bold for it now. So it was only three years. No, four years ago now. But, yeah, legs are not what they were four years ago. So, yeah, no, I'll let someone else do it. But there are so many different categories out there. Well, that is a pure. I was not expecting to get a Rayleighota on this one. And I appreciate that. There are many other people who may have gone down similar paths, but you're here and you get one. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. And of course I want to joke, I'd never get the opportunity to ask a question, let alone answer one, and get Rayleigh. What's better, the Guinness game. I mean, that lasts for more than nine months as well, now that you hold that forever. Yeah. If I can get a certificate with it on your joke. There we go. 1241, honestly satisfied customers. Michael's in Mitchell. Michael, question or answer? James. Hello. Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. I would like to know, what is the national anthem of England? The reason I'm asking this is, everybody knows on the football, on the Olympic. Well, on the Olympics is Great Britain. It's not England then. On the football and euros, you always hear God save the queen, obviously. Now it's only now God save the king now, obviously. But on the Commonwealth Games, when England wins a medal, they sing something else. They do. Which I never heard before. You've never heard it before? Not, to be honest, not. Okay, all right. What? So if that is the english national anthem, why they don't sing it on the football? You're only allowed. You're only allowed one question. Michael, I'm confused. Please help. Well, the answer is Jerusalem, which is a poem by William Blake set to music in, I presume, the 19th century by a chap called Hubert Parry. So that is it. Jerusalem. And did those feet in ancient time walk up on England's mountains green. And the answer to the second. I mean, you're not really allowed a second bit. But the second bit would be that they compete. Now, hang on. Why would it not? Why would it not be so you've got flour, you've got. The Scots have theirs. Yes. Why would England. So why don't they do God save the queen? Is what you're really saying. Why don't they do God save the king at the Commonwealth Games for England? I do understand that if they don't sing God save the king on the Commonwealth Games, because obviously you have Wales, but on football, like the World cup, the euros, why they don't see Jerusalem. There was a. Do you know what the answer is? No. I don't normally do this, but someone sent it to me and I've checked and it's true and it's so funny. I'm going to share it with you. They had a referendum. What? There was a vote and you are not going to believe what the. What the winning result was. Michael, please. 52% against. 48. Let me get. I don't know. I don't know what, but 52% of the vote for Jerusalem, God save the queen, came in second place. But I haven't got the figures in front of me of whether it was. But there. That. What an amazing discovery that is together. Wow. There it is. Good Lord. Well, round of applause for. Round applause for both of us, actually. It just kind of popped out there. There we go. Thank you, James. No, thank you, Mike. Take care. Thank you. Great stuff. That's not the same question that we had a couple of weeks ago because it was oddly clever. Clogs. I might put you in idiots corner, Jason. No, I won't. That's just a misstep rather than an aberration. Tina is in tame question or answer. Tina, it's an answer to your question about salt the earth. And you knew it, really, because you used to be a good catholic boy and go to church. All of that. All of that. Right. So Jesus says to his disciples, you need to be the light of the world and the salt of the world, because those are the two indispensable things. In those days, you needed salt to preserve your food. Light. Well, light's obvious, isn't it? So it was salt of the world originally. No, salt of the earth. Salt of the earth. But not as in. Not salt in light of the world. So. But using Earth as a synonym for. No, no, it's about salt. I know, I know. I'm just saying earth and world, it's. It's not earth as in salt, earth soil, it's earth as in the earth. No, no, no, it's salt because he carries on to say, if the salt loses it, say the. What use, isn't it? Yeah. So you need to be the absolute essentials for humanity. Yes. You need to be out there doing the business. Basically what he's saying. Matthew 13. Matthew 13. No, no, Matthew five, verse 13. Oh, you're joking. Yeah, you see, dot Brown would have known that, but she's gone, bless her. She. She would have known that, wouldn't she? She would. She'd have quoted it. I'm sure. That is a beautiful answer. What are your qualifications? I'm a christian, I go to church and I hear these things regularly. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Tina. Solely earth Tina. Well played. Lovely stuff. 1245, mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I need answers. I want answers. Answers, answers, answers, answers. How did we cut our toenails? Done. Salt of the earth. Pigeons memory banks. We've done world records. We've done. Oh, actually, no, we've done. Sorry, take it all back. We're doing quite well this week. So. Pigeons and toenails, is that all that's left? And baby brain. Baby brain. Come on, everyone. Surely we. I gave that evens. It's a good job I've abandoned that six minute enthusiasm for the idea of giving odds to every question or mystery hour. Isn't it? 1250 is the time. Do I sound nervous? I'm quite nervous. I'm playing myself in a radio drama tonight. Can you imagine the arrogance involved in signing up for something? I can't tell you any more about it at this stage. It's a rhetorical question, Keith. At this stage, I can't tell you anything else but, uh. But, uh. But, yeah, um. I've already getting nervous. Just got the email through about it, thinking, have I. Have I made a mistake here? What if it's terrible? Anyway, onwards and upwards. Uh, Martin's in Stamford, Connecticut. Question or answer? Martin, I'm afraid I've got another question. That's all right. Uh, I fly into London from New York about anywhere between three and six times a year. Every time. Every time I fly over, we are forced to fly over London as far east as Essex or Kent and then back into Heathrow, adding probably at least half an hour onto our flights, wondering what the rules are. And the rationale is for forcing planes flying from the west over central London and back into Heathrow from the east. You're queuing, aren't you? I think there's no room for you to land. But why can't they accommodate us by flying, letting us land from the west rather than the east? Never, ever have we landed from the west. It's always in over central London and then back back to Eastboro again. Is that a mystery? I mean, they're not. I'm going to tell you something now. And one of us, as a consequence of what I'm about to say is going to feel a bit silly, but I have no way of knowing whether it is. Did you have a nice drink there, Martin? Did I have a nice word? A nice drink? Oh, thank you. Yeah, I could hear that was nice. It's usually me and my enormous mug that interrupts, mister, so I'm going to say something that is going to leave one of us feeling a bit silly. I've got a feeling it might be me, but there's a 48 per chance it could be you. Runways are one way. Not at all, not in all airports. Well, they are at Heathrow. An airport like Chicago can accommodate flights coming in from both directions. I'm pretty sure Heathrow can't. Okay. Would that be the answer to your question? I guess it would be. Ah, so it's you. You're a bit silly. Not me. What a relief. Otherwise. Not. What do you mean? All right, well, I'll leave it on the board. Because I did the Sherlock Holmes, I eliminated the impossible. And whatever I was left with, however improbable, was in fact the answer. But I think. I think the runways are one way, and that would explain why the plane has to do that, because they can't. It's not like you drive at home. You can't reverse into it, can you? No. So I will put it on the board. Thank you. But if that is the answer, I should be particularly even more pleased with myself than usual. Thank you, Marty. He's made me thirsty. Now. I'm gonna have to have a gulp of mine while I say to Richard in Oswald street, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So, toenails. Yeah, marvelous. I love the idea that someone has just turned on their radio because they hate my guts, but they can't wait for Sheila Fogarty. And the first word they heard was, hmm. So, toenails. Carry on, Richard. It's purely speculation, for my part, by going on the boat for a long time and was almost always barefoot, and I kept meaning to buy nail clippers. Yes. So I'm thinking just through natural abrasion. I was always on and off the boat. And then briefly, I walked as a gardener as well. I was gardening once again. Hands in the soil all the time, lots of abrasion. Sun you wouldn't need. You wouldn't need it if you were living outdoors. Especially if you weren't wearing shoes. Exactly. Running around like a free knives. Pretty sorry. Lots and lots of lack of footwear going on. And if it did get particularly unpleasant, you could probably just fold it back and snap it off or tear it, file it with a stone. Apparently, I was completely wrong about Heathrow, which is just as well, really, that I didn't sound smug at all in my answer to that question. I don't know what's wrong with your phone line, but you've got yourself a round of applause. Thank you. So it's just baby brain, Heathrow and pigeons now that are remaining. I told you we wouldn't get one on pigeons. I gave him a thousand to one on that. Back when I used to put odds on mystery hour questions before I stopped. I started putting odds on mystery hour questions at four minutes past twelve today and I stopped at seven minutes past not one of my most successful wheezes. Oh, hang on a minute. Jean's in Norwich. Gene. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. So it's why pigeons have that five syllable call. Well, basically, there's two kinds of birds. There's birds that have the ability to learn vocally. Yeah. And there are birds that don't. So there are scenes and non oceans and a pigeon and a dove is a non ocean. Right. So they're born with the innate, you know, it's innate. That's the noise they make. They make, yeah. Is the noise they make. And my dad used to call it, eat more wheat, Judy. That syllable that they make. And a dove is just like, eat more wheat, Judy. And a dove is just a three. And a wood pigeon as well. Yeah, and a wood pigeon. The same. If you think about a robin. And birds like that, they can add flourishes and they can out competition each other, but doves and pigeons can't. So, I mean, it's not perhaps the answer Clive was looking for, but that is just their genetic programming. That is the only noise they can make. So they're nonocenes, so they're born programmed and that's it. They can't learn. You'll never hear them doing anything else. So they're announcing to the rest of the bird world, there's a pigeon over here, lads. Yeah. Essentially, that's it. I am a pigeon. That's it. Yeah. They don't have the ability to do anything else. And I learned that because I love birds and I read a book called Corvus by Esther Wolfson, and she explained it in the book and I wrote it down because I really wanted to remember that fact. Gosh. And this is why, probably subconsciously, you thought one day on mystery, how this will come up and I'm going to get the round of applause. It was. There's so many times I wanted to phone in but not had the guts to do it. So that's what you thought? I had to phone in. I listened to your show. Big fan. Oh, thank you, Gene. As I get older, I get more and more intoxicated by wildlife and birds in particular, ornithology in particular. I don't know why. It's chick season, isn't it? Now, you like swift, don't you? I do like Swiss, although I failed to tempt any into my Swift box this year. I will try. I sent you a picture of my swift box with a camera in it. Did you? Yeah. They're a bit late at the moment, so it's still time. Is there still time? There's still time, yeah, there's still time like that. And if you've got a Swift caller, if you can play a swift sound, where do you get that from? So, I mean, you can get them from. Can you just download it or do you need to buy something? No, no, no, you. No, no, you don't need to download it. So if you go on to Swift action for Swift's or swift local network. Yeah. You should be able to get it on there. Right, you're on. I could. I could email it to you. They're free. Yeah, go on then, James. BC dot co dot uk, if you could. I'll look out for that. Okay. Thank you. Well, I feel bad now. I can only give you a round of applause. What a beautiful answer. Clive will be delighted. Now knows the answer to the pidgin question, gene. Fantastic. And I'm also going to read Corvus by Esther Wolfson. That's right up my strata as soon as I finish writing my own latest effort. David's in Birmingham. Question or answer, David? It's an answer, James. Carry on, mate. It's about the runways and the. I'd embarrass myself a bit. You always come in from the one direction. It's down to, I'm afraid, wind. Yeah. Nothing to do with one way runways. No, because there's actually two parallel runways, Heathrow, and I think they alternate between the two. Sorry, Mark. So what actually happens is in order to you take off into the wind and land into the wind to increase the apparent speed over the wing, which gives you more lift, so it slows down the amount or it reduces the amount of thrust that you need and it gives you more control. Qualifications all around. Aviation geek. And I work for a company that makes high lift systems. So front and back of the wing that move, that is it. You're home and dry. Round of applause for David. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. It's very, very hard to pick a favorite this week, but I am going to go for. I gotta go for Clive, haven't I, with the pigeon impressions? I think I do. It's Clive. That's it for me for another day. If you missed any of today's show, it's worth rewinding. It really is. You can listen back on catch up player, where you can rewind live radio or enjoy the whole show podcast. You'll also find all of LBC's shows to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcast, including full disclosure. So rewind live radio on global player download for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com dot. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Sawbrick. But now it's time for Sheila Fogarty. Briefly, was there an answer on the swimming thing? Yes, there was. What was it? What do you think? Well, when I swam in the Olympic pool, which was a joy, the Olympic pool, I felt like I was flying. And I, I also felt that the water was gorgeous and silky as well. But I wondered if it was to do with the depth of the water. Yes, there will be two reasons for that. Sheila Fogarty the first is indeed the depth of the water. An olympic pool would have a three meter depth, but interestingly, it would be a uniform, as you probably noticed. It would be 3 meters all the way through. There's no shallow end and no deep end. So the deeper the water, the faster you go. And also the nature of the walls, because it's all about resistance. How much resistance is coming back at you as you swim. And in the shallow end, there is more feedback or resistance coming back at you. And if the walls are closer together, so a narrower pool. So. And also the pools where it laps over the edges, that would help remove. Okay, sorry, I got a bit carried away. No, good to know. Good to know. You're very welcome. I think it was deeper than 3 meters. This. It might have been, but it was uniformly deep. It was uniformly deep. 3 meters is quite deep. I'm 185. I'll stand up. I'll stand up. Well, I'm about the same height as you. That's another. Yeah, another one. That's pretty deep. Yeah. I still think it was deeper than that. I might be wrong. Anyway, this is not getting the baby washed. Is it true?