Why do ambulances have cat flaps? - 16 Jul 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Open the phone lines. Let the madness begin. This is your weekly opportunity to get an answer to the question that has had you puzzled for the longest time. The mystery that needs solving. The way it works is not dissimilar to the newspaper features, newspaper columns where readers write in with the question, why do we do this? What's that all about? Where does that come from? Who did that? Why? What, where, when? Whither, whence, wherefore? Origins of explanations for whatever it may be, the only criteria for qualification is that it is a question to which other people will also be interested in the answer. If you've got a question like that, give me a quick call on zero 345-606-0973 if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then the number, of course, remains the same. Zero 345-606-0973 I can't take questions by twitter now. There's no point sending them now. But I will insert into proceedings one that has been submitted previously this week by people who prefer or are unable to listen live and listen to the podcast. So hash Twittermysteryhour will be your way to get that question included. Although I think ive probably got the one I want for this week. If you havent heard it before, there are only two circumstances in which youll be politely invited to move along with your question. Ok, that the first is, if weve answered it fairly recently, thats fairly straightforward. And thats just depends on what James the engineer and I can actually remember. It rests entirely upon our short term memories, or indeed long term memories, actually. We've been doing this quite a while now, haven't we, James? You still never got one right. And then the other circumstance in which you may find yourself politely invited to jog on is if it's boring. And by boring, again, very much in the eye of the beholder. But by boring we mean sort of to do with motoring. If it's a question that, I mean, you might think is interesting, but it's genuinely unlikely anybody else will. There's a roundabout near my house with five exits, four exits signposted. Where does the fifth one? That kind of thing won't get on. It's hard to pin down precisely what the criteria of dullness are but we know it when we hear it. And in order to free up the phone lines as quickly as we can, we do call it when we see it. Okay? So we just crack on. Actually, rather than have a laboured introduction this week, you just get stuck in. And if you're not familiar with the feature, you will be soon. If you are familiar with the. The sooner we get stuck in, the better. What's not to like? At 1206, Tony's in Hampton court with the first question of the day. What's it to be, Tony? Yeah, like James. Hello, Tony. Was that an Ella ambulance? I've got an ambulance. No, I was in the back of an ambulance a few months ago. I'm sorry to hear that. Yeah, no, I was actually a passenger. Anyway, that's another story. God, don't go there. All right, I noticed, and it wasn't appropriate for me to ask the paramedics at the time, but it's been bugging me for months. There was a cat flap on the side of the ambulance, on the interior of the ambulance, and. Well, it must also have been on the exterior, otherwise it wouldn't be a cat flap. It wasn't. Oh, it was a cat flap. The same cat flap that I've got in my home on my door for my cat. The same make and model and size and even the branding. So it wasn't hidden, the fact that it was the cat flap. Okay. And it wasn't leading out through to the exterior, into the road or whatever, it was just inside the panel of the ambulance. The panel between the back and the front of the ambulance. No. Besides. So if you. Where did it lead? Where did it lead? The cat flap. Exactly. That's why I want to know why is it there in the first place and where did it. No, I'm not getting the picture, though. Where do you think it led? If it. I haven't got a clue. But, you know, you must have a clue. It's not like the blinking wardrobe in the light in the. In Narnia, is it? It's got to. You've got to know what was on the other side of the panel. Well, I mean, I would imagine it's a false panel. It wasn't directly out onto, you know, the metal part. So it could just be a door into a cupboard of some sort or something like that. No. Why a cat flap? I don't know. I mean, what, you hadn't. You weren't in. They haven't picked you up? Sort of. No, I wasn't seeing stars in the park. Are they? Tony, I know you're gonna say no, it's crazy. And, you know, I even asked a paramedic who on the school run, you know, as you do, you get chatting with the show and I know she's a paramedic. I said, you know, what's the story of the cat? She looked at me like I was crazy, as did the first answer the phone call for this, as is the presenter at the moment. I'm not going to call you a liar. All right? It was a cat flap fitted inside an ambulance, but flapping to, you know, not where exactly, regardless of where it went to. Why is there a cat flap in an ambulance? I'll find out for you. I've got a feeling it will prove not to actually be a cat flap in the strictest sense of the word. I'll tell you what, let's make a little bet. Come on. A greek bet. Well, okay, then. How am I. No, I can't take money off a greek. No, not this week. I just know it wouldn't be right. It wouldn't be right. When I say it wouldn't be a cat flap, I think it's a cat flap, but I bet it's not for cats, that's all. I mean, nine minutes after twelve, I got about one word out of three right there. I think Linda is in Walton on Thames. Linda, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. Linda, when an elephant makes that trumpeting noise. Yes? Is he making it with his voice or with his trunk? He. You mean, is he. Is he blowing his nose, so to speak, or is he having a bit of a scream? Yeah, yeah, because they. They can make vocal noises. They make infrasound noises, apparently. They make what noises? Infrasound. We can't hear it. It's too low for our ears to actually register. How do we know it's happening, then? Well, you can record it with instruments that can hear it. Oh, yeah, silly question. I've seen it on documentaries about elephants, but they never discuss how elephants make the trumpeting noise. I mean, are they literally. So it's an expulsion of air, but you want to know whether the air is coming out of the mouth and passing over some vocal cords or whether it's coming. Whether it's like a glorified, you know, nose blow pop. I'd say probably the latter, don't you? Just from the noise it makes, it sounds a little bit like misses O'Brien blowing her nose in the morning. That's not very kind. Sorry. She's at work today. She might be listening. Unlikely. She's in a tv newsroom. If they've got me on, they've got all sorts of problems. Let's find out for you. If anyone tells her I said that, you're all dead. Thank you, Linda. Eleven minutes after twelve, does an elephant, is it trumpet? Is that the best word we've got it. Isn't it an elephant, trumpeter? Is it coming down the trunk or is it coming out of the elephant's mouth? Area? Jay's in poplar. J. Question or answer? Question, please. Hello. Hi. Hello. Hello. Hi. My question today is how did, I mean, I think, historical answer to it, but I have no idea who would know about this. But how did countries get their names? Who named countries? The people that lived in them. Yeah. I mean, as an individual or. No, you give a name to your tribe to distinguish it from other tribes and then you name the bit you taken over after your tribe. So if you're a frank, yeah, you, you call the area that you've conquered, France, or Frankland. If you're a Norman, if you belong to the norman tribe, stroke family, call it Normandy. If you're a Saxon, you call it Saxony. If you're a Briton, you call it Britain. So Japan, China. Yeah, well, those are english words. Okay. So I don't think there's a. I don't think there's an answer that will work for you for every country. I don't think there's an answer that explains the origins of the name of every country. Some of them, I mean, Liberia in Africa was named because it's where freed slaves were sent and it's derived from the latin word for freedom. So, you know, and then you've got South Africa, which obviously wouldn't have been called South Africa if you didn't already have Africa. So I don't know. Swaziland, meanwhile, is named after the Swazi people. So I don't know that I can give you a sort of definitive answer that would apply to every country. No. Okay. Well, it does make sense what you're saying to people there, but I thought that there might be something more to it than that. We shall leave it on the board then, and see if there is more to it than that. I can't at the moment imagine what it might be, but it's not impossible. It could be. All right then, that would be great. Do you want me to leave on the board, Jay? I'll do that for you, mate. That's not a problem. All right. How do countries get their names? Is there a catch all answer to that. Where does an elephant's trumpet emanate from? And why are there cat flaps in ambulances? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I get a text that says something like, got to get back to work now, angel. I have a. It's urgent. I have a strong feeling that wasn't intended for me. Phil's in Wallington. Phil, question or answer? Question, please, James. Go on, Phil. Why are planets round? Orbit, orbit. Orbit. Nah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Pebbles on a beach get rubbed by the motion of the waves and things. Yes, but we get the sun, the moon, our planet, and lately, Pluto. They're all round. Yes. Oh, it's the same reason that the stones around. Yeah, but they've got nothing to rub against in space. They have, over millions of years, space debris, flotsam, jetsam, asteroids, comets just chopping off the bits on the side. And lo and behold, after a couple of million years, you got a nice round planet. There you go. Bish. Bosch. Where's the lumpy bits? On the side when it went bang in a big bang. Meteor showers. Yeah. That's meteor showers. Not the planet, is it? Look at. Meteors are made up of their old bits of planet, mate. Same as the planet. No, the meteor. Your meteor. Your meteor is an old bit of planet. What has fallen off. Fine, but why do planets appear to be round? They're not, like, spherical. They're not perfectly round. They're lumpy. You know, they got lumps on them. Look. I mean, look at the flipping. What do you think Mount Everest is overall? They're round. Circular? Roundish? Roundish. Phil. No, I'm not having it. You can't not have it. You've got Mount Everest and then you got deep, deep oceans, and that's reflected on the surfaces of other planets. So they're round because over millennia, millennia, over millions of years, billions of years, while orbiting around whatever it is they're orbiting around, in the case of all the planets you've mentioned, the sun. While orbiting around the sun, they have, you know, had their rough edges knocked off. A bit like Eliza Doolittle. So the beach, when you got the pebbles on the beach, they're rubbing against something constantly and getting polished. Yeah, but when you look, that's why it happens a lot quicker. It takes a lot less time to polish up a pebble than it does to, you know, square off a planet. You're winging it. I'm not winging anything. Why are you arguing with me, you strange man? This is just a textbook academic answer. All right, well, whatever. You're not having it. You know. Everyone's a skeptic today. Well, all right. Why do you think it is, then, clever clogs? I don't know. I've got a clear cloth. All right, I'll leave it. I'll leave it on the board because I've been taking too many rounds of applause lately. Why planets round zero 345-606-0973 is 1215 history hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 19 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we are attempting to find out why there are cat flaps in ambulances, apparently, according to Tony, who definitely wasn't drunk. Elephants. The noise they make, the trumpeting noise, does it come down the trunk or out of the mouth? How do countries get their names? And why are planets round? A few of you have been in touch to say you've had this question before and you just gave the same answer you gave last time and it was wrong then, so, all right, it's a good job I left it on the board, then. I'm only human. Honestly, some people. Theo's in England. Question or answer? Theo. I'm not smart enough question, please. Go on, then. I was having a chat with a member of staff the other day and I was telling her, I'll be there in a jiffy. Yeah. And she's not. She's not originally english. She asked me what that meant and obviously I'll be there quickly, but I didn't know where the word came from. How come it meant, you know, I'll be there very quickly, for example. I don't know either. It's a nice one there, I have to say. You do. I'm not going to let you get away with saying that you're not smart enough to provide an answer. Not when some of the questions include, how do elephants make their trumpeting noise? I don't know if it's smartness, it's just luck if you've got it. If you've got it at your fingertips. And you know what, actually, while you're here, I just got an email of someone whose first language isn't English either. She make you chuckle? Hi, James. I'm a Spanish. I'm a 37 year old spanish woman. This is off, Paula. I started listening to your program to improve my English and now I'm completely hooked. Today's subject she was talking about, the one in the last hour, seems completely passionating to me. I think we've just invented a new word there, thea. Every show should be passionating. Well, I think I've invented a new word. You were talking about millennium and millennia. Yes. So how would you explain billions of years? How would you explain. I like it. Yeah. Well done. You can have that. That's copyright Theo in Ealing Billenne. It should be, but actually it means thousands anyway, not millions. But Bilhenny is good. Let's get Theo answer the origin of the phrase jiffy, not in terms of bags, but in terms of short periods of time. Wire, planets round. And this is amazing, Scott Balcony has being in touch to say that if you shrank the earth to the size of a billiard ball, then all my chatter about it not being round because it's got mountains and seas on it, it would actually be smoother than a billiard ball. It would be within the regulations for the smoothness of a snooker ball. If you say you took the earth and shrunk it to the size of a snooker ball, it would be smoother than a snooker ball. I think that's really interesting. And he added to it, hashtag h d y l t a. Can you work out what that means? That's my little mystery for you. Hashtag h d Y l T A. James the engineer is looking puzzled. We just had a conversation about this phrase. You prune. Charlie's in Sutton. Charlie, question or answer? Morning, James. I've got an answer for you. Bring it on, bring it on, bring it on. It's about you and your greek friends. Cat flaps. Cat flaps in the ambulance. Has he gone mad? Does he need help? Do they need help? No, it doesn't. They just spawn. They are. They are cat flaps. They're actually physically cat flaps, but they're not for cats, obviously, therefore it's a clinical waste bin. So you just push the clinical waste through the cat flap and it goes into the bag at the bottom, the bin. And then that gets emptied when you're back at base, as it were. Yeah. Then just take the bag out, tie it up and chuck it away. So, needles, sharps, all that sort of thing? Well, sharps are separate. That's the bin underneath in a separate cupboard. I was just trying to sound clever. That's Josh. I don't know why, but needles, though. Needles, needles, needles, yeah, needles, needles, yeah. Qualifications? I'm a student paramedic. Let me send you this. Oh, brilliant. That's the first of the week, Charlie. Oh, excellent. Yeah. Double. Give him another one. Give him another one. There you go, mate. Fully boots. Even better. You're doing great work, Charlie. And we all thank you for it, even though sometimes we might forget to say so. Charles is in Stockport. Whereabouts in Stockport, Charles? Uh, just outside of Stockport, near Glossop. Okay. I used to live in Glossop. Did you? Beautiful part. Well, we lived in Birchvale, but we'd go swimming in glossop on Saturday morning. Oh, yeah? Yeah. For toast, I'd have a toasted tea cake just outside Glossop baths with my dad. You weren't expecting that when you rang in, were you? I wasn't mad. What were you expecting? A question or answer, Charles. It's an answer. On the planet gone? Well, planets are formed from stars and obviously when they form, they're all molten, so they're liquid, in effect. Like lava. Yeah. So they're floating around without any obvious gravity knocking about, so they form little spheres. They then cool down and when they're solid, of course, they're round or slightly spherical. You're good qualifications? Just a levels in science subjects and electronics and all that sort of stuff. Yeah. Well, it sounds you this. Beautifully played, Charles. It's 24 minutes after twelve, so we can cross that one off. And we can cross that one off. We still need to know how countries get their name, whether elephants make their trumpeting noise down their trunk or through their mouths, and the origins of the phrase in a jiffy. I'll be there in a jiffy. Oh, and also my own that I've added. What does h d y l t a stand for? In a clever Twitter hashtag, hdly. All right, it's just me, is it? Martin's in Islington. Question or answer, Martin? I've got a question, James. Go on. What was the time period called when Jesus was alive? How do you mean? Well, BC is before Christ and ad is after. So when he was alive, what was that time period called? It was ad because, I mean, it's BC's before he was born. Ad starts when he was born in year zero. It's kind of open to a little bit of dispute this, because the exact date of Jesus's birth is not really recorded, but for the purposes of this exchange, then. Yeah. I mean, when he was alive was ad and then when he wasn't alive, it was BC. Okay, so you thought ad began when he passed away? Died. My son asked me the question the other day. That's a good question. I've been asking around and. And I've got. I did get an answer, but I'm not sure that was. What was that? It was. It was DD. What during Domini, it was called. They said it was during Domini. Well, that doesn't make sense because one of those words is English, the other one's Latin. Yeah, maybe that's just the english pronunciation of it. Do you reckon I could be wrong? I mean, I've never heard that before, but ad the year of our Lord, so. No, it's definitely an Anno Domini, the year of our Lord, I. E. The year of our Lord being in existence, whether it's pre or post resurrection. All right? Okay. See if anyone else can come up with anything better than that. No. No, I will not, you cheeky beggar. I'm getting a round of applause for that. And you can jolly well say thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. It's 26 minutes after twelve. Honestly, it's like communism here now. Andrew's in Harrow. Question or answer? Andrew? Yeah, hi. My question is the toenail. Right? Because, you know, your fingernail is a pick of stuff. Hang on, slow down, I didn't catch that. I got. I got toe. I got as far as toenail. Right, you're fingernail. Are you on hands free? Andrew, are you on hands free? No, no, I'm talking in the phone. I can't hear you very well. Carry on. Sorry, can you hear me now? Yeah, that's much better. Okay. Yeah. I'm saying the fingernail is like to pick up stuff. You can pick up small object like a needle or something. Right. With your fingernails. Yes. Finger. But your toes on the nails. What's the purpose of a toenail? What is the purpose of a toenail? Yes. Well, I mean, what, you just want an example of something you can do with it or do you want to know why it exists? Because. Yeah. And the purpose for it, you know, there isn't really a purpose. There isn't really a purpose where it's a sort of evolutionary hangover like your appendix or your tonsils. I mean, the reason you have toenails is because they would once have been claws, which would have helped you sort of climb trees and stuff like that. Yeah, but why put it if it doesn't have a purpose? Well, it did have a purpose once when we sort of climbed trees a lot in previous incarnations. I'm not sure about that. You clean? I'm not sure about one. Stairs. All right, so you. I mean. Yeah, well, it does make quite a lot of sense, but, I mean, for example, fingernails existed before needles did, so I don't think the ability to pick up needles. Example, like small. Small, tiny objects. Yeah. You can use a finger to pick it up, you know, but, um. It out and you can eat if you feel it. You can use the finger to scratch it yourself. You can't. You can. You can actually scratch yourself with your toes as well, depending on how supple you are. But it still doesn't really have, you know, the tone is because everything of purpose, your ears, your mouth is what? Everything has purpose. Well, your tonsils don't. Your tonsils don't and you and your nipples don't either, actually, while we're here. Right? Do they? Well, they probably do, but we just don't know. What's it for? Some accent still, sir. No, your nipples serve no purpose at all. Nor do your tonsils or your appendix. I think it does serve purpose in nipples. I think about it quite oddly. Think it. All right, let's have a think about. Let's have a think about this. What do you think your nipples are for it? As in certain areas and circumstances? Well, in what? In what circumstances? Andrew, have you ever gone, oh, my goodness, thank God I've got my nipples here with me now sometimes. Yeah. Because, um. In like the mother. Partner. Yes, it does. It does make a difference. Yeah. In what purposes? What? No, no, not your partner's nipples. Your net. You. No, no, no, no. Your partner's nipples. Your nipples. What are you. I'm talking about mine. It does help with me as well because if you like, you know, trying to, you know, be comfortable, then yes, it does. Okay. All right. Bad example. I mean, the answer to your question is we got toenails because we used to have claws. But you want to hear it from someone who's a bit more intelligent than me. Am I right? Not saying, but more. Someone more precise. More. Definitely more precise. More plausible, more knowledgeable. If you were to put that up. No, I know. I like it. I like it. It's a good question. What's the purpose of a toenail? Zero. 345-606-0973 Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC 33 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What is the purpose of a toenail? What's the origin of the phrase? In a jiffy? I'll be there in a jiffy. Naming countries, I think we've done. But if you think you've got a better answer than the one you heard, I'll take it. And how do elephants make their trumpeting noise? Is it with their trunks or with their vocal cords? Zero. 345-606-0973 is also the number you need. If you've got a question of your own that you'd like to get on the board. I don't know why. We think it comes from goodwill hunting. That hashtag HD ylta is how do you like them apples? Matt Damon is in good will hunt. It's a great film that if you've never seen it, but where it came from before that, I don't know. You say it to people when you're sort of saying, haha, how do you like that? Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. How do you like them apples? I've got no idea what its origins are, but that's what it means. A lot of you are saying, how do you like that answer? Which actually makes more sense but is not the answer. Hmm. How do you like them apples? David's in ealing. David, question or answer? I'm sorry, James. Carry on, David. Right now, I'm a trumpet player. Yeah. So I do know how the sounds are made. Basically, the elephant makes the sound with the trump, not with the vocal cords. What happens if you blow a trumpet, which is exactly the same thing, basically a tube. You blow down a tube and you'll make a sound. You have to have a vibrator to start it off, though. And then the trumpet players. Yeah. For the trumpet players, the ellipse. So you blow your lips. So what does the, what does the elephant do that. What's the. Oh, mate, I'm gonna have to say the phrase thanks to you. What. What does an elephant use as a vibrator? Well, if it blows hard enough down a tube, it will make a sound, but it must be something at the beginning of the tube, not the vocal cords, but something at the beginning of the tube which flaps in some sort of way like a sort of epiglottis. Yeah. And your qualifications are that you play the trumpet? Yeah, I'm doing a bit about acoustics, but, um, basically that's how trumpet sound is made. It's not made with the vote. When a trumpet player plays it. It's not. No, I know a trumpet isn't, but I'm just not 100% sure that the elephant's noise is the same, exactly the same as a trumpet. Trumpet. Well, the elephant's trunk is a tube. Yes. And if you blow, it's like a didgeridoo or any other tube. If you blow down any tube, you've got to be right, haven't you? It's got. It's got to be right. It's just got to be right. Well, yeah, it is right. I can't describe exactly the physiological makeup of the troelection itself, but, yeah, but I mean, basically, a tube is a tube, and if you blow down any tube, it could be a hose pipe, didgeridoo or any tube kettle, anything which is a tube. If you blow down air, you will make a sound and it will be a pitch of some sort. And the elephants. The elephant sound is a sort of a noise. Can you do one? Can you do one? Can you do an elephant sound? If you give me a tube. If you give me a tube, I'll do one. But I haven't got one with you. Can't you just sort of use your fingers or something like that? Find yourself a tube somewhere in the studio and try it. There you go. Basically, you blow a raspberry on your lips. Yes. And your lips flap together and that sound is a sound which is amplified in the tube and the tube amplifies the sound greatly. And if you have a tube long enough, it will be quite a loud sound. I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you very much. Perfect. Of course, it has to be. It wouldn't make any sense otherwise. Some more questions. Andy's in Romford. Question or answer, Andy. It's an answer. Good man. What is it? Right, it's another answer to your planet question. Oh, right. I'll use the earth as an example. The core is heavier than anything else on the earth. So that's where it gravitates to. Yes. Which acts evenly across the surface of the earth, which causes it to form a sphere. Now, the centrifugal force of the earth spinning, right, means it boulders around the equator. So it's not a perfect sphere. Yeah, any place, it's pretty perfect. If you shrunk it to the size of a billiard ball, it would be within regulation smoothness and circularity. But not an exact sphere. No, of course not. Not a sort of platonic sphere. Not a perfect sphere. So what did the last fellow get wrong? Did I hear him say that there was no gravity? Because I was a bit distracted at this. He said, air effect forms formed droplets. Yeah. I don't think I was strictly right. No, nor do I now. So I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you, Andy. Steve's in blackheath. Steve, question or answer? Question. James. Go on. First of all, nipples. I could have them pierced as well. Oh, yeah. Where would you keep your nipple rings? He should have said, what are your nipples for? Where would you keep your nipple ring? All right, let's leave that right now. No, I'm out walking my dog, uh, Stanley Jack Russell. Why don't dogs get stung by stinging nettles, even on their noses, anywhere? Because he's obviously quite close to the ground being a Jack Russell. And underneath his private part, she hasn't got a lot of hair. But sometimes I go to the bushes with socks on and I get stung through my socks. And he does. Are you sure he's not. I mean, he's definitely not getting stung, otherwise he'd never go there twice, would he? No. And I don't throw the boy the thing that was on purpose, but on occasion, sometimes he goes in. He goes straight in after it and come out. Yeah. And doesn't appear to get stung. Nothing at all? No. Not even a bit watery eyed? No. No. No sweating or nothing? No bark's gone up an octave or two? None of that at all? No. No. He's. Why don't dogs get stung? Something to do with nerve endings, will it? But I don't know. So why don't dogs get stung? Well, I had a dog that ten years ago and he got stung by bee on the tongue, sadly. And he swallowed up and he actually choked and died. A kind of autopsy that the vet told me what had happened to him because he just dropped in the garden. But he actually got stung on the tongue by a bee and he must have choked. But no, I just wonder why stinging nettles don't sting dogs like they do humans. I like that you go in there with socks. They always seem to penetrate your socks when you go in on your feet. Yes, they do. I mean, they're nigh. They're murder. I'll get you an answer to that. Well, I'll do my level best. I'm sorry for your loss as well, Steve. I wasn't. I wasn't expecting that sort of poignant postscript to a tale about stinging nettles and dogs in other regions. I don't know that it's fair to use a couple of quotes from the program so far to distill the nature of this week's mystery. The conversation about elephants was about the vibrating source of the trumpeting noise. It obviously came out a little inappropriately. Karen's in Kent. Karen, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Karen. So why we were. Why we were created with fingernails and toenails. What is the purpose of a toenail? Okay, well, what is the purpose of the toenail is for protection. And if we wouldn't have toenails, we would be walking around barefooted and it would be kept bruised and battered. In that case, if I have fingernails and toenails, which are the pointiest parts of our body, which get to touch the most, you know, around and around. Therefore, we have protection, too, that we shouldn't get bruising about if we have nails. How does that work, though? Because you don't touch things with your nails. You touch things with your fingertips. Well, obviously, if I would scratch myself. If you have your finger, your nails automatically protect you at some. You know, to some extent. If I would have. If I'd be walking around and out with bare footed. Do you think that's wrong? No. It's a terrible phone line. Not a terrible phone call. I just don't know what in particular. I mean, the skin under the fingernail is horribly sensitive. We all know that. So obviously that. What danger would I be in if my toes were just sort of little. Little nubs of flesh rather than having nails on them? I'm so sorry. Something about your phone line is like fingernails on a blackboard. I'm about to tear off my own ears with my fingernails. I. Does that sound right to you? I just. I mean, it's just not. It's not specific enough. Protect me from what? If it turns out to be true, Karen, with someone whose phone line isn't sending me into paroxysms of torture, then I'll play the round of applause for both of you. Stephen's in Stockwell. Question or answer, Stephen? Our answer. Carry on. How did countries got the name? Yes, well, it's. You are almost right, but going to be the details again. The phone lines gone, mate. Something's gone wrong with the phone lines. We'll come back to you, Stephen, I promise. I'm not just biffing you off because you had the audacity to say I was almost right. Clayton's in Leighton. One day, Clayton, we're going to do a show where every caller's name rhymes with where they're calling from. Coincidence. It's just a coincidence. I can assure you that. Carry on. And I've got a brother. His name is actually Leighton. You got Clayton in Layton. Has a brother called Layton? Yes. It was ridiculous, but I have no idea I'd end up living in it. No, he doesn't. Layton doesn't live in Layton. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He was born many years, a long time. Clayton's in Layton, but his brother's called Leighton. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Anyway, the question answer was about the Romans. Jesus. Question oh, yeah. Someone said about what. What. What date or what system they used at the time. Well, it all depends, obviously, what society you were living under. The Mayans had their own calendars. The Incas, the Chinese Indians had their own calendars. Yes. Now, but at the time. Right. It was under roman rule. Right. And the Romans, they obviously did not use the term BC or ad that came after. Clearly. Yeah. Their date started from. They had their own calendar, which started from the date when this Rome city of Rome was formed by roman whoever. I think it was 208 BC or. I can't remember when it was, actually. This is the augustinian calendar. No, the Romans had their own data. I forgot what it was called. Sure. I mean, from the founding of Rome by Romulus and Remus. Yeah. So at the time. Right. He was alive. They wouldn't have used the term BC. No, I know, but maybe we misunderstood the question, though, because obviously you can't have had a BC if you never knew that Jesus was coming. But. But I thought the question was about. I've got the answer to that as well. Anyway, Clayton in Leighton. Go on, then. Well, no, because, um. I do remember hearing someone said that I was in church. Right. The church I was brought up in. Yeah. And to argue that Jesus existed. Yeah. The preacher said he spoke to some historians. He left them dumbfounded when they were denying he did, when he said, what does BC stand for? Before Caesar or before Cicero? And they tried to drum that into that Jesus existed. But after reading about it, I was quite young at the time. We all know that that calendar only came was signed by the Roman Catholic Church when they set up their own time. So they set up their own date to say christian calendar. Yes. All right, I'm going to give you a round of applause. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I don't know that I think we've provided alternative answers to the same question. I don't think they cancel each other out. I think he was asking, what would that era named after? I've got a crack on it. I'm late for the travel news. Clayton in Layton. Give my best to your brother. Layton Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1249 is the time. You're listening. Listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we still need answers to some questions. What is the purpose of a toenail? And actually, the suggestion that it's to protect us somehow is challenged by Matthew, who says, I lost two toenails after doing a 100 kilometre walk. James. And to my surprise. I have noticed no side effects. Therefore, I doubt the answer involving protection. Yeah, well, so do I. Now, actually, you're the one without any toenails, so really, you're the best qualified to comment the origin of the phrase in a jiffy. As in, I'll be there in a jiffy. Why don't dogs get stung by stinging nettles and not. Not. The answer is not fur, because the Jack Russell in question has a rather furless undercarriage that emerges unscathed from the stinging nettle patch. Ah, what a day. Dina is in Finchley. Dina, question or answer? It's a question. Hello, Dina. How old are you? Twelve. Are you gonna get me into trouble now? Because when my nine year old finds out that I let a twelve year old on mystery hour today, she'll be jealous and she'll say, why can't I go on mystery hour, daddy? So what's your question? I've had the vegetable palm of hearts at home. Yes. Lots of my friends have asked me where they've come from, and I don't know where they've come from. It's a funny one, this. I happen to. I happen to know the answer. The answer is the shop. Okay. No, it's not. Really. Sorry. You know, when you get a. They are actually the heart of a palm tree. It's like a sort of white. It's a white. That's it. And they're quite tasty. Crunchy, aren't they? Very crunchy, yeah, well, yeah. Well, it depends whether they're tinned or fresh. That's right. Yes. But what happens is that they now cultivate palm trees in a special way so that they can actually take the heart out of the palm tree without the tree dying. But it is literally just, you know when you chop a tree down and you count the rings to see how old it is. Yeah. If it was a palm tree, it wouldn't have rings like that. It would just have. In the middle of the trunk, it would have this delicious white sort of stick right through the middle, and you pull it out, chop it up, stick it in tins, and that's your palm hearts. I didn't think it was from palm trees. I thought it was just called that. No, it is actually from palm trees. It is. It's a sort of. I think in Florida, there's. There's something called a palm cabbage, or I could have got just. I must have done this before, because I've got some information stuck somewhere in my brain and I can't quite dig it out. Does that ever happen to you? Yes. Tip of my tongue stuff. But it's definitely the heart of palm. The palm hearts that you can buy in shops come from the center of a palm tree. Okay, thank you. No, thank you. I've asked my first round of applause today. Have Al is in Norbury. Question or answer? Havel. Good afternoon. I've got an answer for the. In a jiffy, please. In a jiffy. What is a jiffy? Actually, I heard it. Well, I've heard it for a long time, but recently I heard an advert, and they talk about how he fixed something in a jiffy, and I looked it up in a book. Oh, yes. I can tell you the name of the book, if you like. Yes, please. Red herrings and white elephant. Excellent. It's a book all about riddles and mysteries. I just have to explain to people listening that because Havel looked this up when he heard it in an advert, his answer is allowed. If he looked it up now, after hearing the question on Mistry, he'd be immediately have our. Knows the rules. I know you know the rules. Have Al. Come on. Okay. Yes. So apparently, it is a scientific term for a very short, let's say, period of time, like a nanosecond or millisecond. So it's not something, a cultural or traditional thing that's been said. But we don't know. We don't know the origin of it, but we do know that it's used in a. In a scientific context. Yes. That's what it says. Or when I read it, that's what it says. Yeah. I'm gonna go. I'm gonna give you a round of applause. Oh, excellent. Don't you think? Does he get a round of applause? That's my third one. Oh. No one likes to show off. Just let me consult with my crack team of consultants and advisors. Is he gonna get a round of applause for this or are we gonna leave him hanging out? Whoa. How did I. Whoa. Thank you. Thank you. Believe it. Honestly, trigger happy today, Jones. Alex is in hell. Out for Alex. Question or answer? Uh, hi, James. It's no answer. I'm in oxygen. Are you, um. It's the dog. You move fast. Dogs do get stung by stinging nettles. I'm sure of it. Oh, that's not really an answer. Well, I know, but. Well, the question was, why don't dogs get stung by stinging nettles? And I've dogs for ten years. Have you? And, yeah, we've got a doggy hotel, and I've been I've been a dog walker for a long time, of course. And on certain routes, we walk through or pass thing nettles, and they get stung in between their paws and they hate it. And they won't go back there. But not. Ah, so there are some areas. Okay, so it's not. They won't get stung through their fur, but they'll get stung in between their toes, on their paws, and they hate it. And they lick it for about half an hour after they've got some antiseptic in their saliva. I think dogs, just as humans. Humans have got some as well. I don't think I can really argue with you on this, can I? I don't know. So, I mean, the original. Why doesn't my Jack Russell really. He wanted to know why. It's Jack Russell's undercarriage. He's got quite a hardy Jack Russell. Yeah, exactly. And there'll be a bit. And there'll be a bit of fur there. And his paws just might be designed differently from the paws of it. Furry. Appalls. Tighter pause. I'm claws. All right, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Excellent. Thank you, James. No, thank you. Or what I should say now, seeing as. What is it you do for a living, Alex? You want we have a doggy hotel called Cotswold dog. Cotswold dogs. In that case, Alex, I'm going to give you. I'm going to give you a round of applause. 1255. How we laugh. Lawrence, is Anisha question or answer? Lawrence, an answer for you, James? Yes, hopefully. I'm gonna respectfully disagree with what you said about that tonsil. I'm not asking any questions. I'm not asking any questions about tonsils. Lawrence, you were talking about fingernails at the time. Yes, but there is no invitation on air to just ring in and correct me randomly on things I might have got wrong. There are no mysteries about tonsils. Okay, how about the a date during Jesus Christ lifetime? Well, I think we've done that, but I feel rude now for biffing off your tonsils, so. Pardon? So carry on. Which one do you want me to talk about? Not the tonsils. Well, neither of them, honestly, but I'm just being polite. So talk about Jesus. Life of Jesus. Which, of course, he was jewish. All people would have been using the jewish calendar, which at present time, I believe was something like 5700. Well, hang on. They were under. They were under roman rule, but they. In Israel, they would have been using the jewish calendar. Right. So you take 2000. I don't think they would? I mean, one of the first things that the Romans imposed upon any territory that they conquered was, was roman units of measurement and time. Then I stand corrected. Well go on, you better talk to me about tonsils then, to claw back some credibility. Well, you'd steal my thunder. There was no thunder to steal. Lauren is a lymph node. Well, at least there's two of them on either side in your throat and they act as a filter for the lymphatic system. So if you have, let's say, a sinus problem, it would drain through the lymphatic system. The first lymph node it hits is the tonsil. Why it swells. There you go, give them a round of applause. Thank you. Lawrence Marks in Basildon. Is this going to be the last. Is I think, going to be close to the last word? Question or answer? Mark? Excellent answer. Well, actually, nails were claws and over the past times of evolution. Evolution doesn't get rid of nails or claws, it develops them into a new hand that we developed after millions of years for more dexterous usage. That's what, that's what I said. Oh, good, right, you've got, you've got your caps already, have you? Well, no, I mean I said that already. It was because clause, but the questioner didn't accept the answer. He just wasn't happy with it. He thought they must have a purpose. Well, that's fact. Actually what you said is absolute fact. Well how do you know? Because I studied evolution and that is the way we used to have claws where we dug underground. Dug underground rather than climbing trees. Of course, that makes sense as well. Yes, yes, yes, yes. I'll have a round of applause. Okay, thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Last word to Steve in Kensington. Question or answer, Steve? It's a question, James. Alright? You all right? Yeah, I'm good, Steve. What's the question, James? It's about national anthem. If the queen was to pass away tomorrow. Yeah. Would the national anthem change seeing it's got God save the queen? Or would it just be replaced by king? And whose job would it be to do that? Yes is the answer. You've been listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty.