Why do some people have more empathy?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It is four minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC where we will just take a step back from an hour for an hour from this absolute skip fire of a political scene situation. Political landscape, absolutely shocking at the moment. Wherever you turn, I've got various screens in my studio. It turns to the left. There's Rishi Sunak insisting that they can make black white by changing the law and ignoring the judges, the colored judges who decide what's black and what's white. We don't need to listen to them anymore. I will decide what is black and what is white. And you see that black thing over there? That's white now because I say so. Turn the other way. There's Boris Johnson. The tears of a clown, you could call it. The approach that he's taken to the tier system of lockdown. And he'll get away with it. He always does, you know, one of life's great truisms. So thank goodness, thank all the lords for Mystery House, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction ordinarily available on your radio dial. I. I think, should I just crack on this week? You can tell I'm a little fatigued by the, by the toll that the news coverage takes on me sometimes when it's all happening live, I even more fatigued than I am usually. But let me just remind you of a couple of things. Thing one, you can win a mystery hour board game, which, you know, it's December 7 now, if you're struggling for that Christmas present and you've already bought my book, how they broke Britain, then the mystery hour ballgame could be just the thing, couldn't it, for, you know, her indoors or him indoors or whoever it is that needs either a book that explains actually mystery hour is for the whole family. The mystery hour ballgame is just great, great, great fun. And you can find out more about it at mysteryour dot co dot UK or all the usual places online to purchase. But mysteryour dot co dot UK is my recommendation. But crucially, make my favorite contribution of the week and you can win one. That's it. It'll be with you. It'll be with you by, by the weekend, probably give or take, depending on the Royal Mail. So there it is. Full terms and conditions are at LBC dot co dot UK. Six minutes after twelve is the time. I think that's all the housework we need to do, isn't it? I don't think we need to do anything else. We just crack on. Iona is in Hanworth. Iona, what would you like to say? Oh, hello, James. Oh, hang on. I got it wrong there. You can tell I'm a bit fatigued. Question or answer, Iona? Question or answer? Sorry. No, no, I'm sorry. I made a mistake. Okay, marvelous. What is it? Sorry, I'm being a wee bit nervous, so please forgive me. I'm terrified, Jake. I haven't been on radio that much, only twice in my life. And you're the second time? Well, I mean, I won't feel offended by the fact that you chose to make your debut with somebody else, but I promise that this will be a pleasurable experience. Thank you very much indeed. Right, so my question is this, James, is empathy inherited or developed through experiences? Oh, crikey, that's a good question. Why do you ask? I ask because I'm an empath. My mother's an empath. My uncle and my grandmother when she was with us. And I'd love to know if it's the nature or nurture debate in terms of empathy. I think, as with almost all nature inertia debates, it'll turn out to be a little bit of both. For people who don't know, an empath is someone with particularly high levels of attunement, if you like, to other people's feelings and emotions. Yes, definitely. How do you know you're an empath, if that's not a silly question to ask? Well, I definitely absorb the emotions of other people. I can feel their pain, their happiness, and I can understand. I think it's. I'm very blessed to have this ability in that I can emotionally empathise with others. So it's like the opposite of being Suella Braverman. Ah, good one. You can only come so far with me on that because you even have some empathy for her. I do. No. Fair enough. I find this fascinating. I don't know if anyone will be qualified to answer the question of how hereditary is empathy, but. Which is how I'm going to phrase it, but I think it has to be. Cause I think the opposite has to be hereditary as well, because otherwise you'd have a sort of, you know, utilitarianism or humanity would have rendered everybody empathetic by now, but because it would be in the general interest of the greater good. And yet, of course, if you inherit more sociopathic tendencies, if you inherit a psychological absence of conscience or an ability to do terrible things without worrying about it very much, you get to profit and triumph in the world, whether you're a medieval warlord or whether you're a hedge funder in the 21st century or a member of Rishi Sunak's cabinet, we reward. We reward lack of empathy. So it must be inherited. And if that's inherited, then the opposite must be inherited too. But that's just me thinking out loud about one of my favorite subjects. So we shall see. We shall endeavor to find out. Thank you. Iona, nine minutes after twelve is the time, I think it comes up in a book by a woman that taught me at the lse called Helena Cronin, a book called the Ant and the Peacock, which looks at inherited traits that are behavioral rather than physical. A sort of evolution of some of Richard Dawkins work. Siobhan's in Bristol. Question or answer? Hello? Hi, James. Right, so I've got a nice dog related question for today's mystery hour. So what I'd like to know is why have dogs got jagged lips? So, you know, if you like, slightly pull down the outside of their mouth on the outside. Inside they've got like, they've got a lip and it's like really jaggedy and it's like. It looks like really teeny shark teeth, but obviously. And what's yours like? What's the humans one like? I've never done that. I've got a dog. I don't think I've ever. Is it. You mean the inner lip? So, yes, so if you just on the. So you've got their muzzle and their nose and everything. So their bottom lip, if you just like pull it down slightly. Yeah, you'll see the inside, they've got like a jagged lip that goes around. Right, obviously the inside. So you hardly. You don't really see it that often, except some dogs, I've noticed, sometimes have it protruding a bit on the outside. So it comes out a bit. But you'll know what I mean when you, when you actually look at your dog. I will. I shall have a look later. Yeah. My dog makes an appearance on the Times Literary supplement podcast this week, actually, because she started barking in the background while I was trying to sound all clever. Speaking of, speaking of, speaking of how people sound. You didn't grow up in Bristol? No, I'm from Birmingham. I was gonna say you grew up in my neck of the woods. I can detect it in the background always, like my little antennae. My West Midlands antennae are twitching. So it's like a bumpy, jagged, like even like mini teeth. Mini, like. Yeah, like teeny weeny, like jaggedly soft teeth. All right, well, it may have something to do with digestion or breaking stuff down. No, I didn't know. Yeah. Whether they need it, still need it, or it's something that's left over from evolution, or whether they still need it now or just why they've got it. Yeah. And also, it's my birthday today, so I'd really like to know the answer. Well, happy birthday to you, Siobhan. Seriously, is it a big one? No, it's 49. Crikey. Just knocking at the. This time next year, eh? Yes, exactly. Party time. Well, have a lovely day. I hope someone spoils you. And if not, then you'll have to make do with an answer to your question. And of course, a desperate tug on my heartstrings there when it comes to who gets the free mystery. Our board game at 01:00 today. Mitchell's in Colchester. Mitchell. Question or answer? Hi, James, there's a question for you. Carry on. Why is it that some foods, when you eat them, affect your mouth? Like spicy foods, like curries, yet other foods, like wasabi, affect your nose? I know exactly what you're describing. I just didn't quite. Yeah. So what else? Mustard, I suppose, is more nose horseradish. Well, that's wasabi. Same thing, I think. Oh, yes, but mustard, wasabi, something where the. I mean, it may. They both can make your eyes water, but one is coming from the nose area and one is coming from the taste buds coming from the mouth area. Yeah. It's always baffled me. You can drink milk, can't you? To kind of like, soothe your tongue when you eat a curry. But, yeah, there's nothing really you can do to help your nose as well. Now you could try snorting milk, I suppose, but that's pretty probably not going to. That's not going to solve. No, I like that a lot. And it is pungency. They're trying to think if the answer's going to occur to me if I just wibble on for long enough. But I don't think it is. Right, you're on. Yeah. Why do some foods affect our nose more than our mouths thinking of most obviously, you know, good old english mustard or some wasabi or horseradish sauce. Wasabi, I think is. Comes from the horseradish root, but I may have got that wrong as well. It is 1213. How hereditary is empathy? Why is a dog's inner lower lip so jagged? And why do some spicy. Why do some hot foods affect our nose more than our mouth? David is in Stevenage. David, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So I've got black hair, so grey hairs stand out a mile away. So I dye my hair on the regular to sort of hide my age a little bit. Oh, yeah, that's very honest of you. Exactly. You know, there are other people listening to this conversation. Yes, completely. But they've not got my surname, so I'm still safe. Very true. Yes, exactly. So the black hair, I will stick to my ears, my forehead, the back of my neck and it will be there for about 24 hours. However, on your scalp, it doesn't stick at all. Why is that? Because there's so much hair in the way. So, no. So I've got. I've got patches of alopecia, so I can see my scalp very, very easily. So when I go to dye my hair, those patches are still, you know, skin colored, absolutely undyed. So it's nothing to do with the oil in your eye. So the bits that do go, the forehead and the tops of your ears do carry that. They hold the dye. Exactly. But your patches, your hairless patches, do not hold the dye. Well, that's a good question. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, unless you're weird and no one else recognizes what you're describing, it could just be me. But. But the catch is that. Yeah, that's relevant, actually. The patches are relevant. All right, I'll find out. Fantastic. Thank you. You're very welcome. 12:15 is the time. Why does dye, hair dye affect some parts of our skin and not others? Why do some foods affect our nose more than our mouth? Why do dogs have a jagged gum or lower inside lip? You know what Siobhan was talking about, even if I'm not 100% sure. And how hereditary is empathy? That's almost a PhD thesis. It's 12:15 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 17 minutes. Excuse me. More after twelve is the time. Lots of questions on the board, lots of room for more. Let's go to Edgeware. Next. David's there. David, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Yes. So, firstly, I have to say, I think there's a good chance you'll say that there's no way we can really know the answer to this. But the question is regarding pain thresholds. Everyone has different pain thresholds and tolerances. So my question is, if someone has, say, a higher pain threshold than me, is it a case that they are feeling the same amount of pain, but they are better at processing it and dealing with it, or is the pain that I would feel that they're actually feeling less pain than me, if that makes sense. Let's say, for example, there are these electric machines that can give you, like, an electric current and you can turn it up and down. So if my threshold was, I can't take more than five, and the guy next to me can take seven, does that seven feel like only three to him, or does it still feel like seven? But he can just handle that. How would we work it out? How would we know? Well, this is a thing. Yeah. I don't know if there's any way he can't bear it either. So you turn it up and you turn it up and you turn it up until he pulls himself out of the. Right. Yeah. Of the apparatus. What. What would he be feeling there compared to what you. I mean, what, what. What measure would we be? I don't know. I wondered if there's like a scientific measure that they can see, you know, so, like, I'm thinking about eating chilis. Well, it's funny you say that, because that's actually why my initial question was, because I can handle chili and my wife not so much. We sort of said, well, it's kind of like a pain threshold. And then I said, well, why not apply it just to pain generally? But actually, I'm listening to old episodes of your mystery hour in my car, and I literally just yesterday heard someone ask about chilis. And they answered that, but that was more to do with taste buds on your tongue, so I don't know if it's relevant. So you've got to change them more. Yeah, they said the answer, I think it was a definitive. Was to do with the number of taste buds you've got on your tongue. But pain generally, I don't know. Nor do I. And neither do I know whether or not, as you did acknowledge at the beginning, whether or not that's something that's going to be possible to answer. So two people being exposed to the same level of pain, one tolerating it much more than the other. Are they quotes, feeling, end quotes, the same pain? Exactly. I mean, for example, my mom has always said she's got a very low pain threshold. And, you know, when I was a kid, I used to go up and you'd sort of just prod them in the side very gently. And she would always say, oh, no, it really hurt. And I think, don't be silly, that can't be hurting. You must be exaggerating it. But then as you get older, you sort of think, well, you know, maybe it does. Maybe to her that is the same as me being, you know, punched in the face or something. And I don't know if we can know it, but I'd just be interested if anyone, if anyone might, we can ask. And we will. Thank you, David. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Two people feeling the same being exposed to the same stimulus. So the same level of shock, for example, in a. An experiment, or being hit with the same momentum, being hit equally hard. One of them feels. Feels it. Well, one of them is a lot more relaxed about it than the other, in a lot less pain than the other. But are they receiving the same level of pain? I do understand the question, but like David, I'm not sure how the answer would be framed. Oscar's in Winchester. Oscar. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Why is it when someone says something that can produce a smell or my next in breath through my nose, I can smell that thing just for the one breath? Just for the one sniff. All these questions are the same this week, aren't they? They're all. This is a bit weird, like. So taste orientated. Well, we've got pain thresholds, noses. A dog's gums is a bit different. I suppose there's too many noses so far. Anyway. Go on. So, what, you can smell it on your next nasal inhalation? Yeah. For example, if they're saying, oh, what do we want for dinner? And say a pesto pasta, do we want to have onion in it immediately? I can smell onion in that next breath in through my nose. Right. And then not through the others. And it happens probably twice a week. I don't understand the question. Why? Why? Why does it happen? It's a question. Why can you smell things? Why can I smell something which isn't physically there in front of me? It's triggered through a memory or a thought or someone saying something to me. It's not actually physically in front of me. Oh, so someone just says, God, those hot dogs last week were delicious. And you get a whiff of onion or a whiff of hot dog. Yeah, okay, well, it's just a sense memory, isn't it? Why would it be any different, more common? Wouldn't it happen to more people? Well, no, I don't think it is that common. I think. I think. I think you're a bit special. Well, thanks, James. You're very welcome. Because, I mean, I would be interested if anyone has any other thoughts on it. Everyone's got a sound memory, haven't they? Or probably everyone hasn't actually some people can't imagine a piece of music in their head, but most of us can. Or I can, at least. There you go. But a smell, mem, like, I don't think I've got the ability to remember smells. But you do. So, I mean, are you a one off, is the question, really. Are you the only one? Are you a super smeller? Do you have particularly sensitive sense of smell? No, not at all. I've got sinusitis most of the time. Okay. No. So there's a lot of money in being a super smeller, you know. Well, I'm a gardener, so. Of course. Right. Okay. I'll find out for you. And how often does it happen? You say about once or twice a week. Yeah, about that. That's really interesting. Thank you, mate. I like that question, and I didn't at first, so I apologize for being a bit. A bit, what's the word? Previous. Being a bit previous. Turning my nose up at your question. Very rude of me. Noses and schnoses. So oscars, ability to smell things that aren't there. What's going on and how common is it? David wants to know about the pain. The other David wants to know about hair dye. Mitchell wants to know about spicy foods that go up your nose. I don't think wasabi is horseradish. It's japanese. It's japanese horseradish. So it's from the same family as horseradish and mustard, which are the only other things I could think of that had the effect that Mitchell described. The effect of some hot food, pungent food, rather than spicy food, goes up your nose rather than activating your taste buds. Why? And then you got the dog's gob. And the hereditary nature of empathy. Natalie is in adelstone. Natalie, question or answer? Answer, please carry on. To do with hair dye. Generally, when you wash hair dye off, you emulsify the hair dye into itself on the scalp, where you don't. On your face. So if you emulsify, if you went into a hair salon, they would apply a small amount of water and emulsify it into your skin, which is when you go to a salon, you get less stain. Right. And that's why it doesn't stain the scalp. But some high pigment colors would. So if it was very vibrant red, some women would get red scalp. I've seen that, actually. Yeah. So generally that's why. So when you dye your hair, you wash afterwards, do you? Yeah. So you apply the dye to your head, and then before you're washing it off, you apply a small amount of water and emulsify it with your hand, which is not great if you not got gloves on. Right. And then. Then continue to rinse as normal and then wash. Stupid question. Then the reason why it's stuck to his neck and his ears is because he hasn't washed them. He hasn't emulsified it. He hasn't emulsified it. He hasn't put that. So there's two bits, is there? You put the die on and then you've got another sashay with emulsifier in it, have you? No. No. So the. You. You use your hands to rub it into itself. That's the emulsifying part. Activate it, as it were. Is it? Yeah. Are you sure emulsifier is the right word to use in this context? I don't know if it's the right term, but we class, or I would say you rub the tint and it would. Tint removes tint. So the hair dye is the tint. And you'd rub it into itself and it will remove it, just making it into an emulsion. That's what emulsify means. No, maybe not. Then that's why. That's why you've thrown me. That's why you've thrown me a bit. So you've got. The dye is on your hair, you rub it in on of itself and then you rinse it out, whereas the bits that have reached your tips of your ears and around your forehead, you haven't. You haven't done that into itself. Yeah. Okay. That works. Qualifications? Hairdresser. Oh, well, that'll do. Yeah, I'd get it now. Round of applause for Natalie, please. Well done. First round of applause of the day. 1226. That's quite late to get the first round of applause out the traps. Hassan is in slough. Hassan. Question or answer? Question, please. James, how did cartographers map out the world before the invention of satellites? Spot air balloons or airplanes? Well, how do you think? I don't know. I don't know. I mean, if I. Okay. You would have a compass, I'm sure they compass was invented a long time ago. You'd map out the. The lines as the direction of a needle changes. But you'll need a very, very long piece of paper to map out this. So do you mean this? What are you most intrigued by? Distances. How they knew distances or how they knew the shape of shapes. You can do that with your. With your. They used to use a lot of ropes and chains for the distances. To get. To get the distances. Right. Yeah, but the, the mapping stuff. I read about this quite a lot. You would just. People would just walk around making maps. But how? Because, uh, modern day maps, we may. Based on satellite image. The old maps aren't as good as the modern day maps, mate, are they? So, I mean, they're a bit rubbish quite often. Good approximations, like India, there was a good approximation of the shape Africa. So how they'd have done it from the coast, they'd have gone out in a boat and drawn back what they could see. Okay, so suppose we've done that. We're on a boat and we see the contours. Yeah. But then as you go around, how do you know what the shape is going to be as you go around, let's say, the entire coastline of the UK, how can. Angles in it. You calculate the angles of things. Yes. Yes. That can be done for the compass and an angle measuring whatever ropes or chains. Triangulation, in a sense, isn't it? Triangulation would be more for signals, wouldn't it? You can triangulate signals, but not. No, you do it also for, you know, getting the. Working out where one point is by using the location of other points, of known points. That's more of a. That's an astronomical phenomenon, I think. But the parallax method. Yeah, it would work hard. It would work. It would work on earth as well. It would work on. On the ground. I think it would. It's trigonometry. Yeah, there is trigonometry, but it's still going to explain how you do work out the shape of the entire. I don't know how many thousands of miles or 100 of miles the UK is. I think you'd be surprised at the sheer numbers of people that were engaged in the process. I mean, think of an ordinance survey map. Aren't we really? Which is quite detailed, quite technical. But listen, there's no earthly way. I'm going to give myself a round of applause for all that nonsense, but I think the scale of the job is probably what will surprise us as opposed to now, when you just need to throw a satellite up in the air and Bob's your uncle. So how did they make maps even before cameras existed, never mind satellites, before anything existed, anything technology, how did they. What did Ptolemy do, you might ask? Thank you, Hassan. It's 12:30 Lottie Morley has your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three four five six zero six zero nine seven three. Twelve. Thirty four is the time. Keith thinks they use tracing paper. They just got a massive piece of tracing paper and put it over the land and then just drew around the edges. How'd you do hills? How'd you do hills? Because you got hills on ordnance survey maps. I think you've got trigonometry points on top of hills, which adds to my triangulation point that Hassan was so dismissive of. But how did they make maps before we had any of the modern technology? What's going on? When Oscar can smell things, just when people say the word and the thing that he can smell is not actually in his presence, do we have. How do you know how much pain. Two people exposed to the same pain stimulus. One of them finds it quite easy to cope with and the other one doesn't. Are they feeling the same? That question. We're not going to get an answer, David, but it's like a philosophical conundrum. We've done the hair dye question. I hope that was to the other David's satisfaction. Why do things like wasabi and mustard go up your nose when most pungent foods affect your mouth? What's going on with the dog's lower lip on the inside? Why is it all jagged? And how hereditary is empathy? Grace is in Greenwich. Grace. Question or answer? I'll answer. Fantastic. Carry on, Grace. Yeah, hi, James. So happy to be on the radio. So my answer is about the question about pain. So in the. I suppose in the clinical, practical study of pain, pain is, as far as scientific evidence based, it is subjective. So a patient reports a pain on a scale from zero to ten, my pain is a nine. That is my sensation of pain. Someone, let's say, had the same situation happened and they said their sensation is a poor. So there's no way of physically measuring pain in patients. Otherwise we could boot out all of the drug seeking drug addicts at a and e who come forward and say, oh, my pain is killing me. Otherwise we'd be able to do that test to establish. So pain is affected by a number of things. How much sleep we've had last night, if we've had a good meal, if our mindset says for the pain or stimulus has been addressed. The example that the gentleman gave on the phone about the two people being electrocuted, let's say you have two people, two different pain thresholds. One person's done an hour of meditation, they've gotten a good night's sleep, they know what's going to happen, they're prepared, they're resilient. Their experience of the pain, in theory, would be less practically, whereas the person would be less prepared for that, of course. Yes. That's like, you gird your loins, don't you? Or you stiffen your sinews, or whatever you want to call it. Exactly. And then there's other things, you know, there's neurodivergent people. We know that they have lower tolerance for sensory stimuli, including pain. There's fibromyalgia, there's so many variants. Even things like women generally have the shower hotter than men do. Even things like that. Yes. So the answer is. There is no real answer, other than it is truly subjective and it is affected by the environment. You know, look after. I'm a nurse by train, if you want to know. I get the answer from. But we look after patients after operation. They've been, you know, beaten up, they're on the ward, their threshold. Their pain is very low because of what they've already. Their pain basically cap has been exceeded and that's why. So it has to do with that. And it is a really subjective. What a lovely answer. I think you've already. What are your qualifications, Grace? I think you've already told us. Yeah. Ten years a nurse. Well, thank you very much for all that you do. Yes, thank you. Nice to speak to you. Pleasure to speak to you. Have a round of applause on us. Oh, thank you. Jenna is in Beaconsfield. Jenna, question or answer? Hi, James, question, please. Yes. So I wanted to know, why are some places, or, you know, most places translated? So, for example, Napoli is Napoli, but we call it Naples. And London is called Londres in French and Londres. Yeah. But why is that? Why isn't it just stay the same? Because it's a. It's a place name, so I don't understand why it's translated. Just wondered if anyone had any thoughts on that. It's actually a really good question, isn't it? And, like, Ibiza is Iviza, like, it's not even spelt Ibiza and yet we call it Ibiza. So I think that might be with Catalan and Spanish and being all different as well. But in your own language, I mean, it's more. I don't know that the mister. Different pronunciations is a different question. It's when you've got actually different words, isn't it? So you go, you visit a city in Italy and you say to the people that live there, where am I? And they say, napoli. And you come home and you say, I had a great time in Naples. That's very odd. Now you come to think of it, isn't it, it is, but it's like an official. I mean, I think the airport is Naples airport. It's not Napoli airport. So it's. Yeah. Oh, well, no, that's, that's. That airports are different. That's. That's the international language of Aero. Whatever that is. That is going to be in English. Wherever you are in the world, they're going to be. There's going to be an english code name for the airport. I think. All pilots have to speak English. All air traffic controllers have to speak English. But what. But why do we need to change it? We can pronounce Napoli. It doesn't. No, I know, I know. It's not getting hung up on Napoli. I'm struck by laundress as well, because you bump into someone on the tube. You see some, you say to some french bloke, how long are you here for? And he says, just we on angleter, pour de sa man? You say, no, you're not here in England. He goes, no, no, no, just we on angleter. You go, hang on, mate. I'm English. This is England. England for the. Why are you calling it Angleterre? Why are they calling it Angleterre? I said, well, maybe they gave it, named it without visiting. It just sounds nice, though. Well, Angleter literally means the land of the angles, doesn't it? And England means the land of the angles as well. But we've got different ways of saying angle and different ways of saying land. It's a good question. Is the translation, then, that is a form of translation, yes. Yeah, yeah. But then. But then I don't think Naples means anything. I don't think it has a Italian. Italy. Italia. Italia. Where are you going? I'm going to Italia. No, you're not. You're going to Italy. Okay, I shall. Yeah. It's a good question. That's. That's a great question. I met, I don't know how often you listen to mischaer. I met lovely Mark in County Durham. He usually answers these questions for us. I actually met him in person the other day. Came to an event in Manchester. I wouldn't be surprised if he fancies this one. Oh, wow. Well, fingers crossed, mark, listen, exactly that. 20 to one. Thank you, Jenner. I love that question. Why do we translate place names? And also, why do they translate place names? Who do they think they are calling London Londres? Even the blooming Romans are at it with Londinium. Although I don't know what we call. I think that was probably the first thing it was. Anyway, there's lots to get your teeth into. Alex is in Dulwich. Alex, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Carry on, Alex, to the dog's lips question. Excellent. Yep. So I'm looking at. I'm a dog walker and I'm looking at my dog's lips right now and they are called ruga. And ruga, they assist, basically in gripping of things. So when a dog's carrying something, it just adds a little bit extra grip. I believe it's similar to how, like, when your hands are in water for a while, how you go wrinkly, so it assists in grip. I like that. And it makes sense, actually. So it's just an evolutionary sort of development. The dogs that were better at gripping things because they had a freakish lip, managed to had more action and more puppies and passed on the freakish lip to more and more puppies and dogs. Exactly. I think it also coincides with the smaller the teeth. So the teeth are smaller towards the back and that's where the ridges tend to start. So I think it's when the teeth are smaller, the lips kind of fill in a little bit, if that makes sense. Yeah, it does. Qualifications dog Walker and you've had a look and you ask someone about it. How do you spell Aruga? I think it's r u g a. Ruga. I like that. I might have misremembered that. Don't worry. Round of applause, please, for Alex. We've got Alex next on the list because he answered her question. 1242 is the time. I forgot. What was the name of that lovely nurse who answered the strength in the grace, wasn't it? And who answered the hair dye question? The hairdresser in Adelson. Was it Natalie? Natalie in Adelstan. Lovely stuff. Well done. Hugo's in Manchester. Hugo, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Hugo. I don't know if I'm going to be as eloquent as grace, but you'll do great. I can tell. In terms of empathy, there are two forms, I believe, cognitive empathy and emotional empathy. The cognitive empathy is your. You can understand someone's perspective and you can kind of rationalize and understand what it's like to be in their shoes and maybe even understand their feelings. But emotional empathy, you actually have a shared experience. Emotional experience, you actually feel distressed. Yes. To someone else's pain and you are more likely to have a willingness to help somebody. Yes. Now, I. I think Iona was talking about the second kind, wasn't she, really? Yeah. Well, I guess so. But I. Yeah. So in that case, so I believe. And there was a study done by one of these genetic companies that, you know, tell you about your backstory. Oh, yeah. That there is a gene for empathy, but it only really accounts for about 10% of your emotional response. And the other 90% is learned behavior. And that is backed up by the fact that I think in most research, women are normally identified as being more, more able to empathize than, say, men. So about 10% inherited and 90% learned. Yeah, that's my understanding. Sounds about right. Qualifications? I did some study into performance management of sports people. Oh, yeah. And I interviewed a neuroscientist, and she told me all about it. Makes sense. Thank you, Hugo. I'm going to take Colleen as well, who is on the same page, but you definitely get a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. Colleen, what would you like to add or challenge? I challenge that I'd be going with the nurture. Yeah. But he was saying 90% learning and 10%. Yeah, I'd actually talk about the male thing. No, wait. So I've come from the point, our parent growing up. Yeah. Our parents kind of lend us their mind, so if they've got a great ability, they got taught to empathize, they'll teach us how to do it. So as a little child, I fall over, bump, scrape my knees, they pick me up. They tell me, they help me understand what I'm feeling, what I'm thinking, what I need, I learn about myself, then I'm able to do it with somebody else. I have that. Yeah, it's a lovely, it's a work of Peter Fonaghe, who's brilliant and a Freud center. All that jazz and gabor, mate, who you've had on, they give us. Fascinating. Yeah, I know. My hero. So if they can't do that, absolute hero. If they can't do that, if they haven't been taught empathy, then when we do fall over, they won't be attuned to us so that we won't learn what we were feeling on what we needed. So we don't learn empathy. And we know many people who, sadly, have experienced that. I would say the male thing, I think boys generally, and this is, goes into the learn stuff. A kid. A boy falls over, more likely to get the message, oh, you're fine, you're allowed. Get on with it. Cry. Blah de blahdy blah. Boys, don't get upset. You know, come on. Stiff upper lip. Yes. All of that. You know, as you speak, I'm looking at Boris Johnson. And I think that his attitude to COVID. Yeah. It was caused. It was caused by being told that emotional literacy is a weakness. Exactly. Who attuned to him? I mean, we don't know. But what happened exactly? Did he feel you lead us into difficult territory now because we. No, because we end up feeling sorry for little baby Boris. But we do, because that's wise compassion, James, and we do need to understand it. That's the hard. And then that's. Where does it ever end? You're not wrong. A therapist. Clearly, I am a therapist. And that's your qualification for answering this. I love this stuff. It's amazing because it helps us understand, as you always talk about, why people do what they do. Exactly that. And if you can understand why you do it, then you can. And if it's unhealthy, then you can work not to do it anymore. And then you can talk it through and try and help people. Yeah. And then we all get on a lot better. Under my glorious rule, everyone would have therapy, but it would only be compulsory for the people who don't think they need it. Yeah. Yeah. And it's. And it's really teaching as parents lesson. If you. If you're not attuned, you're busy, you're stressed, you didn't get it growing up, you struggle to give it to your kids. And we need to do a lot of work around families and all that jazz. That's where the future lies. So. It's a big, lovely work, Colleen. Thank you. Round of applause. Lovely stuff. I like that question and I loved both the answers as well. Between them, Hugo and Colleen absolutely smashed that. It's 1247 mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 1250 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. How did they make maps in the olden days? Why do we translate place names? Why? If you go to Italy and ask an italian where you are and he says, napoli or Roma, why do you come back and say Naples and or Rome? Why does Oscar smell stuff when it's not there? Just if someone tells him about it. I love that one. And staying with noses, some pungent flavors go up our nose rather than affect our mouth. I'm thinking of mustard and wasabi and horseradish and the like. And we've done the dogs and we've done the empathy. Lovely work this week. Well done, everybody. Laura's at Enfield. Question or answer? Hello. Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. And it's about. Dorkies and yet, like a Yale lock and key, how many combinations there are for the. For the key, because we wondered if it's infinite, you know, infinite options, or is there somewhere that there are duplicate keys? We wondered if there's a locksmith that could answer it. It's a question from my partner, Danny, but I'm asking it. Why can't Danny ask it himself? He's driving. Okay, so, I mean, hello, Danny. So there must be. I mean, it can't be infinite because it's quite a small piece of metal. I mean. Yeah. So we wondered, like, how many. So how many keys do you make before. Yeah, I like that question. Before there's a duplicate. Yeah, I mean, obviously there's different kinds. There's Yale and then there's all the different locks. Yeah, we'll just go with two identical keys, like two Yales. What are the odds if you got two randomly selected two Yale keys, what are the odds that they would actually both open the same lock? I like that question. Or maybe we're wrong. Maybe I'm being a bit cocky. And, in fact, you can guarantee that they'll not be too. Do they go round again? So you go to the key cutters and you put. That's. That's variation number 756,204. But actually there's only a million variations. So you get to a million and one, and it'll be exactly the same as the fact. I'm being silly, Laura. I like it, Danny. Thank you. Drive carefully. 1252 is the time. Rosemary's in Nottingham. Rosemary. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Hello, James. It's an answer to the question about why certain place names are translated differently. Okay, so Italian. Let's take Italian. In fact, it's not a language I speak, but I speak others Italian. So the place names in Italian are going to end mostly in a vowel. Okay. Yes. So, Roma, Torino, Napoli. In English, we are from the Indo Germanic. Yes, Indo Germanic. Origins of our language, we're heavily consonant, ending in our. So, London, Bristol, Nottingham, where I live. So we don't have mostly names that translate into one ending with an a or an e or something for that in general. So in Russian, which I'm studying at, heavily consonant language is full of them. And so if you said Jajibur, the London. I live in London, it's the same as London in English because it's a heavily consonant. It depends on the rule of the language. But we mustn't forget that the name of the town is their original one. We mustn't we must see it from their way out towards. I don't want to get all Brexit and centric here. That is the correct. That is the original name. Now, Napoli is the name of the town, but we translate it into English, so I hope. I tried to explain it, but it's a grammatical reason. It's a grammatical reason. I think that makes sense, really, doesn't it? Qualifications. I speak five languages. Which five? Let me guess. English. Yeah. There you go. One out of one. Don't spoil it. French and German. Spanish and Italian. No, Russian. Yeah. Russian. Spanish and Russian. French, German. Spanish. Russian, yeah. French, German, Spanish, Russian, English. And then if we were six years old, we could now say Australian. An American. I don't know that. I'm not very good at. Oh, yeah, Canadian. We can speak all of these. Right. Round of applause for rosemary, the linguist, please. Thank you. Thank you. That would normally be mark in Barrow, in furnace. I can see he's on the board and he'll probably have something to add. But will we get to him? I do not know. Ellie's in Kilburn. Ellie, question or answer? Answer, James. Thank you, Ellie. Hi. It's about how you measure how you made maps before satellites. Oh, yes, marvelous. We need some basic equipment. A fjodlite which measures angles. Yes. A level which measures the height between two fixed points. Yes. And some sort of distance measuring device which could be a chain or a rope. Could be a chain or a rope or. Yeah. Lots of walking about paces. And then between those three sets of information, you can use calculus and geometry to work out the distance and the height and the angle of any fixed point in the landscape to a line of two fixed points that, you know, the distance and the straight line. So that's trigonometry. That's triangulation. Yeah, it's triangulation. Did you hear how snotty Hassan was when I said it was triangulation? Yeah. I think he had his. I think he had an idea about, you know, stars, you know, trying to find on the ocean. It's a similar kind of. Also triangulation, but of a different kind in a different context. Exactly, exactly. But you need it to. It has to be three. You have to do a three dimensional thinking. I get that. So I can see the landscape emerging now, but how do I do the coastline? Same deal. Is it just the same thing? You just think of it in two dimensions rather than three? Yeah, I love that. Qualifications. I was a landscape land survey assistant when I first left school for like a summer and a bit is that doing ons maps or just. No, it was a private company. They used to do maps of buildings and for setting out for a construction site, that kind of a thing. I love it. And presumably it hasn't actually changed that much. You wouldn't use a satellite to do that, but you'd have lasers instead of the measurements. Could be done with lasers and things like that. I mean, when I was doing a theodolite, you had a theodolite that you read onto a piece and you wrote it down on a piece of paper and now everything's digital. Yeah, great stuff. Love it. Round of applause for Ellie. That was a great answer. Thank you, James. Mike's in Morden. Mike, question or answer? It's an answer. Go on, Mike. It's about the different differs on the standard yellow lock before you get to another key. About 1100 differs. Shut up. Is that all? That's all, yeah. On a standard Yale. So if I had 1100 keys, I could open any Yale lock? Yes, eventually. If you got the time. Yeah. Yeah. Qualifications? Locksmith for over 40 years. Well, you've just given away a trade secret. There you go. So only 1100. You're in. Only 1100. Variations on a Yale key. So here's an interesting one. Phil's in sale. He says, when I was young, we had a flat near London, but our main house was near Manchester. Whoo. Get Phil. By coincidence, the front door keys opened the doors at both properties. Yeah, well, once in 40 years I've changed a. We're talking about a standard yellow lock. Yes, generic. Once. Only I have changed the yellow lock and the customer said, my old keys still work it. And that's only ever happened once. In that case, I'm changing them out all the time, every single day. So. So someone's. Someone's what? Had a burglary or they've lost their kid. No, it couldn't have lost their keys. They wanted to change that. They wanted to change a lot because they'd been a burglary. You changed a lot. They put their old key in the lock, turned it and it worked. It worked again. Quite embarrassing. But, you know, that's just genius, mate. I bet you're not expect. You're not expecting this, but you're getting one of these. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you. I just think that's fantastic. One in 1100 and actually happen to you, which is an 1100 to one chance, I think. Unless I've just done the odds wrong and spoil everything. Nice work, Mike. Thank you. He got a ray Liotta. So I am going to give the board game to the birthday girl. Was it Siobhan? It was Siobhan, wasn't it? Whose birthday it was. Siobhan gets the board game because it's her birthday. Was it Iona or Siobhan? Well, just check whoever's birthday it was. I think it was Siobhan. It might have been. No, it was Siobhan. Anyway, whatever. The birthday girl gets the box. Quibbling honestly, surrounded by pedants. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back to it. The whole show. Podcast on global player where you can pause and rewind live radio. All LBC shows are there to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcasts. Pause and rewind live radio. In fact, two mentions of full disclosure this week. The Gabor mate one is still there. And a special weird full disclosure where Emily Maitlis interviews me, which an earlier caller was so kind about. They're all on global player where you can also pause and rewind live radio. You are always in control. Download it for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Swarbrick with you at four. But now on LBC, it's time for Sheila focus.