Why do politicians bob?

Mystery hour with James O'Brien four minutes after twelve years at the time. Crikey, it is mystery. I completely forgot. How can it be Thursday already? Is anyone else having a sort of vortex like experience with their calendar at the moment? Is it because I was working at the weekend so I didn't have a proper downtime? And then the clock's changing and the light and the day getting mixed up. This is quality broadcasting, you lucky, lucky people. Mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The way it works is you ring in with a question. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need, and your question could cover anything pretty much from the sublime to the proverbial ridiculous. All that I ask is that it be neither dull nor repetitious, because I am the only one who's allowed to be both dull and repetitious on this program. I have much higher rules for the rest of you. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery number one. How can something going really badly be the fault of the people who didn't vote for it and said it would all go really badly? No, I'm only joking. This is a brexit free zone. It isn't, however, a question free zone. And I got nuffink. I got nuffink. Unless you ring in with your question. So, a who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whither, a whence, a wherefore. Why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's the origin of this? When that happens, why does that happen? And if I tell you that our most decorated mystery, our member, is the professor of public understanding at the University of Science, then you will hopefully know that the bar is set incredibly high. For seriousness, you can ring in with a really complicated question, or you can ring in with a pant wettingly silly one. There is absolutely no problem with either, as I say, dullness. Which means it has to be a question that you think other people would be interested in the answer to. Yeah, that's all. So, you know, why can't I find my nail scissors is unlikely to ignite the interest of the nation? Whereas when you do this, why does that happen? And it will be something that makes everyone go, oh, yeah, yeah, it does, doesn't it? So I hope that's clear. Repetition is my job now, because the turnover of staff on the program since Mister Owl was founded in 1863, renders me the only one who's got a proper handle on questions that have and have not unfolded before. Adrian in the Internet department has put together an excellent archive, so if you want to avail yourself of that and see whether the question you're thinking of asking has already been asked, you can, but it's also worth pointing out at this point, it's actually quite an entertaining archive. Anyway, you know, six minutes after twelve is a time. If you hear somebody else ask a question then and you know the answer to it then I just got a bit confused by a text then it says, hopefully now you'll actually get an answer to a question after 2 hours, says Matt in Nottingham. You're right mate, I did get answers. New world order. There are answers out there as to why anyone would think the bank of England would lie to England. But all we got that you could really kind of formally write down is new world order and most of us aren't going to buy that. If you answer any questions on mystery hour with the words new world order, you'll be barred forever from the program. And I've got special technology to make sure that it can read the sweat on your fingertips when you dial on your phone and set off an alarm in my studio. People who believe in new world orders will believe that by the way, but it's not true. Should we crack on? Because I'm in a verbally mood and verballing is always dangerous because who knows where it may lead. Should we start? Petersen, Harrow. Question or answer, Peter. Hello Peter, I'm first time caller, you're very welcome. I ordered your book today. Fantastic, well give him a round of applause. No, stay there. Blatant. Blatant and shameless. Thank God Amazon have managed to restock. Anyway, question or answer, Peter? I know a question and it's not a disgusting question. It's about toilet doors though. When you finish your. Whatever you're doing in the toilet and you wash your hands, you want to exit but the toilet door has got a handle on it. You don't want to touch the handle because it's full of germs. Some has wooden handle, wooden piece you push, some has metal. So my question is, which is better to touch whether germs or bacteria less prefer some materials because you want to exit the toilet. I like that. That's a nice question. I've thought that in the past as well actually because you sometimes go on. Sometimes I'm just struggling to. I halt in front of the door. I'm just thinking hmm, how should we. Should I use my pinky? I use my pinky most of the times to grab the handle on the grounds that if there is bacteria on the handle, then your pinky is going to scoop up less of it than a bigger finger would. No, but it's less likely that I will do anything else. You're not gonna. It's less likely to reach your eye or your mouth or your nose, because we don't really. Why do we have a pinky finger? Oh, that would be my question. What's it for? What's the point of it? But anyway, we digress slightly. Do you. Do you worry unduly about these things? Or. I mean, do you have. I don't have that kind of. No, I just wonder. Because if you did it. Because. No, it becomes. And that is the correct use of the phrase OCD. It becomes a. Because it's a natural, rational problem. Problem. Fear. Worry that you've got OCD would. Would elevate it into the realms of the irrational. There's nothing irrational about what you asked. It's just when you said you pause at doors, you obviously just mean very, very briefly, you're not there for five minutes persuading yourself that you can actually. Well, exactly. I'm not going back for a tissue and push the door with a tissue. Where does bacteria thrive best? On the metal bit or the wooden bit? And then we could probably throw some plastic in as well, shall we? Just in case you encounter. Yeah, I like that question. And the worst thing ever, and if you. The worst thing ever is when you. When the handle's wet and you don't know why, it's probably just that someone else had wet hands, isn't it? But still. I hate that, mate. I've also got a problem, and I'm so anti Brexit now. I won't use Dyson hand dryers. No, I'm only joking. Mind how you go, Peter. Joe is in Blackheath. Joe, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Right, nice simple one. Prime Minister's question time. When the leader of the opposition or any of the opposition are clearly asking a question, why is it that everybody else stands up behind the prime minister who's obviously going to answer the question? I think they're hoping to get picked next, aren't they? Doesn't that disadvantage disabled people? Probably it does, yes. If they've got a separate system for disabled people. Hang on a minute. You've phoned into mystery hour as a smuggling effort. This is a very valid point that you raised, but it's got nothing to do with mystery hour. You're about to share your manifesto for making parliament more disabled friendly, aren't you? No. Yes, you are, I can tell. Why does everybody just keep getting up when they could clearly have a much better system? And they must have a better system for disabled people, surely? Well, it's not really a mystery, Joe, is it? I've answered your question and you've given me a yeb up. And I don't like yebbuts. It's a decent yebbup, but there's no room for yeb ups or mystery hour. Well, damn. Sorry about that. I'm gonna give myself a round of applause because I've answered your question. But, yeah, your point stands. I don't know what you would do if you struggle to get to your feet. Round of applause for me. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need toilet doors. Which is the safest bit to touch. Or in other words, what. What surface does bacteria thrive best on? Zero 345-606-0973 and I think I've nailed Joe's question about pmqs, but if you think you can add to it, then feel free to do so. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Dave's in high Wycombe. Dave, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Dave. Why do we have uppercase and lowercase letter in the Alphabet? Yeah, that's a really good question, isn't it? Don't get a round of applause for that. Let's not get carried away. Have you bought my book? Oh, come on. Have you bought my book? Yeah, I've bought a couple of them at liar. No, I haven't. No, you haven't. Give them a round of applause for brass neck. Go on. So obvious. What a rubbish liar. I'll buy a second hand car off you, Dave. I'll be able to see you coming a mile off, mate. No problem at all. Good night. Cheers, mate. All right, there you go. Why do we have uppercase and lowercase? I mean, I know that proper nouns and things like that need lowercase, need uppercase, but if it was Birmingham with a small b, no one's going to get lost trying to find it, are they? So why do we have uppercase and lowercase letters? If you know the answer to that? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need toilet doors, pmQs, uppercase and lowercase letters. I'm not very pleased with this story that someone's just put up on my screen unprompted. It's a response to the question about toilet doors, I suspect, and it's gross, actually. Why have you put this on my screen? I was about to have a slurp of tea and now I can't. I may never eat again. Here's a headline you won't forget in Ari Poo found on every McDonald's touchscreen tested. Traces of feces have been found on every single McDonald's touchscreen swapped in an investigation by Metro dot co dot UK. I don't really know what to say about that, except that my job is to bring you the information that you need to make wiser decisions in life. I've never used a touchscreen at McDonald's. I'm quite old fashioned. I always go up to the counter for a bit of human interaction. But of course, it is human interaction that's rendered those screens so potentially unpleasant. David's in Sunderland. Question or answer? David. Hi, James. It's the question. Carry on. I bought a new electric toothbrush the other day when I went to charge it, that it actually only had two prongs on the end of the plug, so I don't have a plug in my bathroom either, so I had to buy an adapter. So why do we have two prong plugs in the bathroom and three everywhere else in the house? It's to do with earthing, isn't it? Or. No, I used to. Oh, we've done. I should know this. It's if. If your electronic device. No, because that. Didn't it? Well, it's something to do with not electrocuting yourself, but that's. You're not going to take that as an answer. And if you do, frankly, I'd lose all respect for you. I presume it must have something to do with the water, obviously, that you would get in a bathroom, but I can't understand why not, can I? And I did know once, so we shall put that on the board for you, David, and hopefully get you an answer. How are you going on with the toothbrush? Not bad. Yeah. It's my first ever proper electric one. I bought a rubbish, like, battery operated one that takes, like, replaceable batteries, but this one's gone. You've gone. You've gone turbocharged. Did you buy it on Black Friday? No, I didn't. But I did get a good deal on it. It was like half price a couple of months ago, so. Because someone told me that for some reason, electric toothbrushes on Black Friday are the ones that can sometimes go for the biggest discounts, like 200 quid. Down to 40 quid. To which my response, you won't be surprised to hear, David, is, who would spend 200 quid on a toothbrush? 30 pounds. It's more than enough, isn't it? It's more than enough. 1215 is the time. I was going to do a topic a few weeks ago about sharing toothbrushes, but everyone got a bit grossed out, so we didn't. The best of James O'Brien questions before us during this week's mystery hour include the best part of a toilet door to touch. If you're worried about bacteria. Is it plastic, wood or metal? Why do we have uppercase and lowercase? Why do we have different plugs in bathrooms? And there's room for a stewards inquiry? Or a further elaboration on the bobbing up and down undertaken by members of parliament during pmqs. 1219 is the time. Nicholas is in Westminster. Nicholas, question or answer? Putting straight what? Stewards inquiry? Stewards. The full stewards? Yeah. God. God forbid. Carry on. Members of parliament bob up and down, because they're hoping to catch the speaker's eye, whoever is answering or answering the question and they get called or not. But for the excellent man who asked you the question about disadvantaging disabled people. Actually, if someone is disabled, what they do is they raise their order paper with their right hand high in the air and the speaker will very nearly always call them. He sees them and keeps an eye out for people who he knows are disabled. And if they want to ask a question, they put their order paper in the air and they get called, if they're lucky. Qualifications? I'm a member of parliament. Are you Sir Nicholas Soames? I am. I'm a great follower of your program, James, and I think you've done a heroic job, by the way, and like all the rest of us, just don't give up. Well, thank you very much. I now have to give you a round of applause. Well, there's quite a moment for mystery. I haven't had one of those for years. I'm sure that's not true. I've seen your speeches, receive applause and thank you so much for your kind words, Sir Nicholas. They mean an awful lot to me also, actually, I'm rather chuffed that you listen to mystery hour. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. So, Nicholas soames there, bringing a touch of class to mystery hour proceedings. And no, I didn't see that coming at all. Simon is in Caterham. Simon, question or answer? It's a question, James. That was a bit special, wasn't it, Simon? Yeah. I feel quite honoured to be preceded by a member of parliament. He's a very impressive parliamentarian and politician in his own right, but I think, timely to mention it. He's also, of course, the grandson of our wartime prime minister, Winston Churchill. And there's a rather lovely symmetry to him. Enjoying this is only making it worse for me, because I'm. I know, mate. I'm building it up for you now. Right there. You'll follow that, Simon? I will try. Well, James, the question is, Agnieszka, my girlfriend and I were coming back from Iceland last night, and normally she'll ask me questions of, what does this word mean? What does this? And just ask me endless questions. Because she's incredibly inquisitive, a fiercely intelligent woman, and anything. Any gaps in her knowledge, she relies on me to sort of pick up the slack. So, as we're descending altitude from high above, there's a bottle of water that we've been enjoying on the flight, and it's decreasing in size. I know that the cabin's pressurized. I know that the water in the bottle does not match the pressure in the cabin. But the whole thing shrunk like it had been squashed by hand and the air inside had diminished. And I had no idea how to explain this. Because it was watertight? Yeah, exactly. Well, the lid was on, the cap was on, everything, and it just. It shrunk up. And I said, well, it can't be. Maybe there's canisters of air under in the fuselage that fill the cabin with increased pressure as we come down, or maybe. I had no idea. No idea. I like that a lot. I like that question a lot. Why did your water bottle shrink as the plane came? There was a plane coming down. It was coming down from altitude. Was it? Yeah. I can only assume some ears were popping like crazy and we were toward the end of the flight, so we're probably coming out the sky toward the UK. Cool. So why did. Why did your water bottle shrink when you. When the plane was. Was descended? Do you think I should have given Sir Nicholas soames a ray Liotta? Oh, it's too late now. You can't think like that. I know, I've blown it. There was like, how many times? It's fine, it's fine. He's only an MP. There's only not. There's 650 odd of them, isn't there? Exactly. So you don't want to think about. That is relation to the number of people that live in the UK. Exactly that. No. All right, so if it was. If it was a toaster inventor and there were only 650 toaster inventors in the country, I would have given him a radioto. But it's an MP. I can't just be doling out awards for people just because they're MP's. I gave him a round of applause because he was perfectly qualified to answer the question. But it wasn't exactly unprecedented, was it, Simon? Yeah, no, no, I think you're all right there. Yeah. Thanks, Simon. 23 minutes after twelve is a time Nathan is in Amsterdam. Question or answer? Amsterdam. I mean, Nathan. Hi, James. It's a question. Do you know what? Do you ever sleep so well that you actually wake up more tired than you were when you went to sleep? Do you know what I mean by that? I slept last night like a baby. I'd nodded off before 10:00 and I was woken up pretty much by my car tooting his horn outside. I ran downstairs, jumped into the car and I'm more tired than I am when I have a bad night's sleep. That's why I just called you Amsterdam. Although now I come to think of it, it kind of suits you. Amsterdam. It's a nice name. It is a nice name. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. So I was watching home alone at the weekend. The Christmas spirit. Quality film. And there it is. There's a part in the film where Kevin leaves the church about 08:00 p.m. To get home to defend his house. And the burglars arrive at 09:00 p.m. So there's a. In the scene, he pours water onto the steps and it freezes, so they then fall down the stairs. How cold does it need to be outside for the water to freeze? Within 1 hour. Whoa. So you're going for an hour as the. Well, I'm guessing it's. I think he leaves the church when the bells go 08:00 p.m. And basically. So what would the temperature be if water is going to freeze in an hour? Yeah, I think it might be a question for Professor Howe. Might be? We shall find out. I know he's listening. Um. I like that question. It's a cracking film, isn't it? Stands the test of time. Like a few others. Exactly, yeah. And we're going to watch it at the Royal Abbot hall. There's a live screen of it in a couple of weeks with the orchestra. Come back to London. Yes, exactly. That'll be. I know it won't he's a composer. I think I know the fellow who promotes that. It's a really good night. I love the Albert hall. You're really stepping. But last time we were there. I don't know if I'm allowed to tell you this, but I'm going to anyway. We were invited by the chief executive, Craig, who's a really nice bloke, and we went into a bit that the public aren't allowed into. It's the bit where the queen goes when she's there. And there's a lavatory. There's a lavatory there that only the queen is allowed to use. Really? Yeah, and I think someone told me. Not someone who works for the Albert hall, of course, but somebody else who is a fan of all royal. Do you know that she has a lady in waiting who carries her toilet seat? She has her own toilet seat that she carries around everywhere. Really? Yeah. I found that quite hard to believe. I'm not going to lie to you. Amsterdam, we all need one of them really, don't we? Well, I might add it to Beth's duties, actually. I might get Beth to start carrying around the royal. The royal toilet seat, 25 minutes after twelve. Thank you, Nathan. I mean, Amsterdam. You'll always be Amsterdam to me. So, freezing water, bottled water, plugs in bathrooms and water, uppercase and lowercase, no water, toilet door water. Quite an aquine, aqueous watery mystery out this week. Martin is in Eastbourne, which of course is on the seaside. To keep the water theme alive. Question or answer, Martin? Question, mate. What is men's van never on the ground floor? It's not fair, is it, mate? Gotta slap on those stairs. I think the short answer is that they never sell as much as women's wear, so you put your biggest sellers on the ground floor and that's always going to be women's wear. Well, no, women are walking 5000 miles to find a pair of shoes. I know they will, I know they will. You've got logic on your side, but not. Not cold, hard economics. You just have your. The ground floor is your biggest sales area, so you put your most popular items down there. If it's a department store, you can have your perfumes and stuff down there, but if it's just a clothing store, you can have women's wear downstairs, menswear upstairs. Okay, mate, thanks for that. That's all it's going to be. I'm taking a round of applause, but I'll obviously leave it open for a stewards inquiry. Although if we get another stewards inquiry from another grandchild of Winston Churchill and esteemed parliamentarian. I'll give you the money myself. John is in Canterbury. Question or answer, John? Answer. Carry on, John. Yeah, we spoke loads of times before. I can't believe people have phoned you all over the world. Then you get an eminent politician on the phone that is second to none in it. Right. It's all right. Uppercase. Lowercase, yes. Right. And I thought you would have known this old Fleet street boy. Yeah, right. Years ago. It's not done now. It's done digitally. But you had compositors that used to have, like, a John Ball printed outfit and put lead letters into. Make a page up. Yeah. The capitals were in the top and the ordinary letters were in the bottom, so the capitals were uppercase and the. I didn't want to know, why are they called uppercase and lowercase? The question was, why do we have uppercase and lowercase? Oh, I'm sorry. I thought that's the question. I'm sorry. That's all. I think it was a question. It's a great answer. I'll remember that. It's actually probably more interesting than the actual answer to the question, if there is one. But. But why do we have it? I suppose it's just a. Taken over from the print. The print days. So why did they have it in the print days, then? Well, because when the compositors put pages together that the capitals were in the top case, and the old inventor. I suppose you need to think of it, why do we have capitals? That's probably the easiest way to frame this question. Oh, well, I think that's going too deep for me. I'm quite thick, John. That's the question. Would it be possibly because punctuation wasn't very clear on early printing, so a capital letter would make it clear where a new sentence started. Maybe. I don't know. As a thought. That's a good way of thinking, James. Yeah, could be that, couldn't it? Anyway, yeah. I do love your show. You're very kind. You're in very esteemed. God bless you, too, John. You're in very esteemed company. Today. Seville is in Weybridge, which is geographically challenging but nominally correct. Seville. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Seville. Okay. It's for the two prongs in the bathroom. Why have I got two prongs in my bathroom? It's your half. Right. It's to do with safety. It's basically. It boils down to what can kill you and what can't kill and voltage hurts. So in the bathroom you have 110 volts, which won't stop your heart in a normal three prong, which you plug in. Normally it's 13 amp, which will stop your heart. So if my. If my. If my electric device that's plugged in with a two pronged plug falls into the water that I'm sitting in, I'll get a nasty shock, but I'll survive. Yes, very much so, yeah. Qualification electrician. Round of applause for Seville. No, I like that. Good. Sound effects. 12:30 we've got a few more questions to answer. I shall remind you what they are, but there are of course room, or there is of course room for other ones as well. What a time to be alive. The best of James O'Brien we are still looking for the answers to these questions. Why does a plastic bottle of water shrink as the plane descends? How long would it take now? What temperature would it need to be for water to freeze in an hour? It's a home alone related question you might have. There's a couple of queries with regard to the menswear question. Why is women's wear always on the ground floor? You're right. John Lewis in Brent Cross, a bit niche. This is the other way around. But I bet if you worked out where there's more footfall because of the way the car parks and everything works at Brent Cross, I bet more people go through the first floor door into women's wear than come through the ground floor door into menswear. I bet that's right. I could be wrong, but I bet I'm right. Why do we have uppercase and lowercase? Or, I suppose, why do we have capitals or non capitals? And which part of the. Forgive me for this, which part of the toilet door is least conducive to bacteria? So if you're worried about getting ick on your fingers as you open the door, which part of the door should you go for? The metal bit or a wooden bit or a plastic bit? If there is a choice, what should you do? David is in Hampstead. David, question or answer? Hi, James. The question. Carry on. So, yeah, on deodorants and, for example, deodorant bottles, it always says how long antiperspirant lasts, so it tends to be 24, 48 hours. How did they test that? That's quite a nice question, actually. I mean, it's sort of. It's deodorant. I mean, is it how long the fragrance lingers? Or is it how long it always says antiperspirant? You won't have stinky armpits for x hours. Well, presumably based on that. Well, that's how they test it. They just get their noses right up in your armpit and have a good old sniff. And then some people I've seen in a gym changing rooms put deodorant on and they stink about five minutes later. They probably haven't had a proper wash, have they? Or their clothes have got stale sweat on them and that's why they stink. And also, why are you going around sniffing people in the gym changing room? Yeah, you know, we've all done it. He's not wrong. 1237 is the time. Anton is again. I want an answer to that. Look, how do they know how long deodorant works for? How genuinely, how do they test it? And if it is simply sniffing armpits, I want to hear it. If you're an armpit sniffer, there could be a Rayleigh otter in it. Anton is in Putney. Anton, question or answer? I have an answer, but I'm not an armpit sniffer. Well, don't worry, there's room for all of us. This is a very diverse audience. What is. What question would you like to answer? Anton, who's not an armpit sniffer? Yeah. The plastic bottle crushing. Why does the bottle shrink as the plane descends? So, James, it's to do with differential cabin altitude. In an airplane, you're typically cruising at 30, 40,000ft. Yes. And the cabin altitude inside the airplane is actually around about six or 8000ft. So it's partially pressurized like an inverse submarine. As you descend. If you've opened the bottle, some air has gotten. Well, actually probably released from the bottle. And so the ambient air in the bottle is around about six or 8000ft, depending on the airplane. And as you descend, the airplane descends and also the cabin altitude descends. Yeah. So then the ambient pressure around the bottle increases as the cabin altitude descends to sea level. And the pressure is so much 14 pounds per square inch, I think it is around about sea level. So that then effectively crushes the bottle because you've got less pressurised air inside the bottle. So they must have opened the bottle and closed it again before descending. Yes, because you would need a gap of air. That's a lovely. I get that. You know, amazingly, I actually understand everything you've just said. I had a couple of minutes in the middle where I thought, I'm going to have to admit my ignorance at the end of this, but in a nutshell, it's because the air that's trapped in the bottle is a different pressure from the air that changes outside the bottle as the plane descends. Yeah. I mean, it's tricky to keep the explanation very short. Well, you've done it. It's brilliant. It's brilliant. Qualifications? I'm a former Royal Air force pilot and commercially alarmed pilot, maybe. Interestingly, when we were recovering injured soldiers from Afghanistan, we would have to adjust the cabin altitude downward to avoid further battle trauma. So we would put the system to semi automatic and set the cabin altitude lower. Otherwise, if you. If a soldier has been injured and the airplane climbs up, if they've got, say, injured lungs or head injury that's been operated on, the air could expand and cause them further injury. Yeah. Good grief. The things you learn. Anton, that was. I mean, an astonishing addition to your call and profoundly serious as well. Thank you for your service. Thank you. You're very welcome. Round of applause for Anton, please. Which seems rather inadequate in the circumstances, but it's all I have in my locker. 1241 is the time. Jeff is in Richmond. Jeff, question or answer? Whoa. Jeff got us. Vocoder. Should we try again? Mc Jeff, question or answer? No, that's not going to work. We'll try and fix up a phone line for Geoffrey. 1241 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Toilet doors. Uppercase and lowercase bottle of water. We've done frozen water. How long or how cold would it have to be to freeze water in an hour? How do they know how long a deodorant is effective for? And I think that covers it pretty much. There's the menswear question as well, but I'm pretty confident I've done that. The arrangements of the floors at John Lewis in Brent Cross notwithstanding, if you can answer any of those, or indeed you have one of your own, then give us a call. Zero. 345-606-0973 Colin is in Geneva. Very international audience at the moment. I just have to remind myself you don't get radiator diaries in Switzerland. So while I'm delighted. Hello, Colin. Question or answer? Carry on living here. I'm just wondering why countries don't call other countries by their actual name. How do you mean? Well, in France, they call. What are you doing? Are you building. Are you on a building site, Colin? I am, yeah. Fantastic. So you're taking advantage of freedom of movement, are you? I've been for the past five years, yes. May I apologize on behalf of the 52% for chucking a spanner in the works of your professional life. But that's not why we're here today. What do you mean? To tell them by their own name? Yeah. So why don't the french people call us England? Why don't we call, for instance, I think, is it Deutschland? Why don't we call them Deutschland? How do we end up calling them names like Germany? Where does that come from? It just seems so random. It's a good question, isn't it? Yeah, I like it. Yeah. No, I'm just thinking if there might be an obvious answer to it. But. But I. I mean, I call you. I see you. Right. And before we've been introduced, I might call you, you know, tall bloke with. With sticky out ears, but your name's actually Colin, so it's as if I've named you before. Right. No, that doesn't quite work, does it? And I'm joking. I'm sure you haven't got sticky out ears. All right, you're on. Yeah. Which should make sense. Yeah. Why don't we call countries what the people what live there call them, in short. I mean, because you don't need. It's not like translation, translation, is it? I might go back further. So Germany describes the germanic people and it only relatively later in life became Deutschland. Maybe Brittany. Breton? France. France. Gaul, Normandy. Yeah. Someone will know that. I just hope they get in touch before 01:00. Martin's in Camberwell. Martin, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Martin, about what part you should touch when you exiting a toilet. If so, if there is the option of a natural wood part, go for that, because it's naturally antibacterial. Is it really? It is, yeah. Where do you live and learn? We did. We came from. We did research when we were looking at designing a chopping board. And we then found in that research that when bacteria lands on plastic, it stays there and lives and survives long. Where natural wood will degrade it and decompose it and kill off bacteria. Yeah. You've kind of answered my next question, which would be, what are your qualifications? And you're saying I am an industrial designer and I learned it at college. Yes, well, and at work as well. It's kind of part of research when you. What are you working on at the moment, Martin? Actually, not directly on that. I'm working on building a house in the Alps. That's my project at the moment. Do you need any help? I know a bloke in Geneva who's quite a good builder. He's called Colin. I would love that contact, because I'm aiming to do it in Switzerland. Well, there we go. Can we put Martin and Colin in touch with each other, see if they can be. That's what I'm here. I'm like Tinder for euro files. I'm also Tinder for racist gammon if you go to the right corners of the Internet. But, hey, rough and smooth. The best of James O'Brien mystery act continues. Why do we have capital letters? Why do we have uppercase and lowercase? How long. How cold would it have to be for water to freeze in an hour? Why don't we call countries by the name of the people who live there, call them? That's quite a good question. So, Greece, for example, is Elada. Why don't we call it Elada? We call it Greece, which is weird when you think about it. Do you know what Romanians call Romania? What do Romanians call Romania? Oh, is it just Romania? But Hungarians call Hungary Magyarskog. Honest. Seriously? I checked with Ivan. He's bulgarian, so he'd know it's ten minutes to one. Pauline's in Leicester Square. Question or answer, Pauline. It's a question. Carry on. Hi. Hello. Question. Carry on. Okay. I walk past the Ministry of Defense every day. Yes. And there are two large statues of women who are naked. I was wondering, who are they? Doesn't it say there? Doesn't it say on this? Doesn't it say on the statues who they are? They're way up in the sky. I don't know. I can't climb up there. Fair enough. I shall try. I shall end up. I mean, they're on the ministry. It's on the top of the building. Are they? Yeah, you know, at the entrance. I don't know the ministry. No, I don't. But I shall take your word for it. So, two. Two statues of naked women on top of the Ministry of Defense. Who are they? Probably. Who's. That? Was like, is there any goddesses of war there? Are you got. Mars is a bloke, probably goddesses. Pauline is my early answer, but I shall wait for further information before anybody lays claim to going definitive. Thank you. Steve is in Corby. Steve, question or answer? It's a steward's inquiry to the shaver socket one. Yeah, go on, then. He was getting a bit confused. If you ever look on the front of the shaver, something electrician, he'll actually say 230 volts. Because I believe. I'm thinking back to my first year at college. Now it comes out at 230 volts. It's to do with what's called an isolating transformer. Yes. And basically, there's two coils in there, and as long as they've got the same amount of windings on them, it produces the same voltage out. But there's electrical separation. There'll never be a route to earth, so that's why it doesn't have the earth pin. If you got route to Earth, you can't get a shock. I like it. So, yeah, it's all to do with isolating transformers and electrical separation. And that's why they're only in the bathroom. I am not. I'm not taking away Seville's round of applause. I'm giving you an extra one. He's kind of right. Yeah, well, you sound clever. Just on this particular question, not in general. We wouldn't want to make any sweeping observations. Dave points out that we have capital letters so that brexiters can shout on Twitter. That's not the only reason, mate, because they existed long before madness did. 1252 is the time Matthew's in Paris, in France. Matthew, question or answer? Hi there, James. Yes, this is an answer, actually, about why we don't use the word that they use in the language of the country we're referring to. So obviously, we've got the word Germany, actually, through Latin. It was used by Julius Caesar in the first century to describe Germania. In Latin, it was people as much as a place. Was it or not? Was it the germanic tribes? Well, it's interesting you say that that's exactly the right word, because Deutsch actually means of the people in old high German. So when they say Deutschland, it actually means land of the people, which is meaningless. It doesn't have the same meaning. It's meaningless to us. Exactly. Exactly. Any other examples? Why do the Hungarians call themselves. Why do we call Hungary Hungary? Well, in eastern Europe, actually, the word for Germany in Czech is nemezzko. And actually, if someone is Niemi, that means that they're muted. So basically, the Niemetsky people actually were people who didn't understand or couldn't speak German, so they were referred to as mute. And that's why in Czech, they referred to Germany as sort of Nutland, if you like. So our names for countries have evolved from a period of history, forgive me, where countries weren't formally, where borders were a lot more fluid than they are now. So they're more likely to refer to people than to places. That's exactly right, yeah. You're brilliant. What are your qualifications? So, I'm a linguistic. I speak four languages fluently and I studied historical linguistics as well. And are you a student in Paris? Are you? Or are you working there now? No, I'm working. I'm a translator. Are you going to be okay after Brexit? I would hope so. I mean, I'm a resident, so I'm hoping that I won't be booted straight out. Well, fingers crossed. Thank you. A round of applause for Matthew. Very multicultural. Now, what's the word? Cosmopolitan. Mystery hour today. It's rather lovely, actually. 1254 is the time. I told you. The rady from the lady o times. The lady from the Radio Times wondered whether mystery hour might actually be nearing the end of it. Nearing the end of its life. Beth was utterly outraged. She's going to send a letter from Tom Bridgewell's. David is in Bradford. David, question or answer? I'm sir. Carry on. Upper and lowercase letters. In fact, when your researcher asked me, I'd forgotten that a long time ago, I'd actually done a course on Anglo Saxon, looking at the language, and we looked at some manuscripts and there it was, all in lowercase, except for the first letter, which was illuminated and still in. In the roman uppercase. Okay, so it appears that it was the monks that started that distinction, and it actually, it was the monks that had invented the lowercase letters. So it was all in capitals previously? Yes, because it was the Romans. It was the roman Alphabet and the Romans used it. And then the monks, of course, being in the roman church as it was, they developed frugal frugality, because they get more letters on a page and it was time and space was money. Would that be why? Yes. Yes, because all the material that they wrote on was expensive to make. Love it. Round of applause for David. That's really lovely answer. I hope it's true. Simon is in Turnpike Lane. Simon, question or answer? It has to inquiry. What about the toilet doors? Go on, then. Right, so he's partly right, but mostly doors are composite and either plastic or they're painted. But the answer is, it doesn't really matter. Let me give you an example. When was the last time you shook somebody's hand? Um, yesterday. Some of their fecal flora. Every time. Fecal flora? Yes, I've got covered in fecal flora. If you brush your teeth, you get covered in fecal flora. So one needs to forget about the lou doors and just ensure that one washes one's hands regularly. Keep your hands as clean as possible. Yeah, I like this. What are your qualifications? I'm a medical microbiologist. Pretty cool. So I can't say fecal flora a lot. Yeah, well, I mean, poo makes the world go round. I know it does. So when you see these stories, like the screens, the touchscreens in McDonald's have got fecal flora on them, your response would be, duh. Of course they have. Exactly. Because all they're saying is they're enterococci on the screen, which is a marker for fecal flora, and that's all they're saying. What does your daily. What does your daily job involve? Now, I've got your job description. What do you actually do on an. Well, I'm sort of retired, but at the minute I'm setting up an antimicrobial resistance laboratory and decontamination and that sort of stuff, so I'm sort of retired, but I'm setting up an antimicrobial resistance laboratory. Well, it's just a fun. Most people start a train set, give them a round of applause. What beautiful answer. When I'm semi retired, I'm not going to get out of bed. James is in Vishkov. I don't know where that is. Question or answer, James? Answer. Where's Viscoff? Czech Republic. Well, this is what's happened to mystery, how it's gone completely multinational. And the House of Commons, which one would you like to answer? The Ministry of Defence. Oh, of course, yes. What are they? What are those statues? Well, the two that are there now are the earth and water statues, but originally there were going to be four, two at either end, but when they were in the process of building the building, they just ran out of money. It was originally the air ministry, so when it was finished in 1959, they never got around to building fire and air. Is that right? Yeah. So earth, wind and fire and water, and we've only got the 1970s band. I was just wondering why water got left out of that band, actually, but that's a mystery for another week. Qualifications, James? I worked there for a couple of years. I'll do nicely. Round of applause for you. Great stuff. Thomas is in Helsinki. This is. You're trolling me now. You're not in Helsinki. Are you in Basingstone? I am. What? I am genuinely in Helsinki right now, I'm afraid. Sorry. Say something in Finnish. Mapuhu Vahan Swamiya. How dare you? Sheila Fogarty is in the room and she's never done anything like that in her life. Oh, that's not what I've heard. Question or answer, Thomas. I have an answer for your home alone. Water freezer. Oh, brilliant, brilliant, brilliant. It's not just a case of how cold it is, but how long it's been cold for. If you've got something nice and heavy like a doorstop, that's gonna really get cold and it's going to be a big energy sink. Yes. You pour some warm water on it, it's just going to draw the heat right out of the water to try and warm itself up, and that will cause the water to freeze very quickly, perhaps even instantly, if it's cold enough. Good lord. Of course it would, yes. If you poured water on something really, really, really cold. I mean, you've seen, we've seen that it freezes almost. You've seen freezing rain, haven't you? Exactly that, yes. I mean, if it's very cold, so there's no answer to the question then. But that is actually an answer. Yeah. I mean, especially because the water forms a nice thin layer. It could potentially freeze, you know, in seconds or minutes, in moments. And it doesn't matter about the temperature, it matters how long it's been cold. I love that answer. Qualifications? Physics teacher. Well, I can't say much fairer than that. And that's it from me for another day, another week. What a special mystery that was. All sorts of highlights, and I don't think it's ever been quite so international. And then I just apologize for that man making foul aspersions about your private life. I haven't been to Helsinki. I don't even speak Finnish. Sheila Fogarty, thank you very much, James. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from Tamp, only on LBC.