Is a coconut a nut?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. So here's how it works. You've got a little mystery in your. A sweet little mystery, perhaps, and you know that there must be an answer to it. And yes, yes, yes. We live in a world of search engines and instant gratification, so you could almost certainly find out the answer to your mystery in a matter of moments. But we cling to the old order on this program. In fact, as Dan is St Alban suggested in answer to the question I was asking in the last hour, it can perhaps be the pace of change that most discombobulates people, but this is a resistance to the pace of change. This is a sort of paean to old values and the old order where you couldn't really find stuff out unless you went to the library. Remember libraries, kids? You couldn't really know stuff unless you've dug out the knowledge that bestowed what it was you needed to know. Now you can google it and get the answer in a nanosecond. So if you've got a mystery, you're not allowed to look up the answer. You have to ring up the radio and after you've asked the question on air, hopefully somebody will pop up who can provide the answer. That's why I inquire after qualifications, and again, it's something I occasionally need to clarify. If you answer a question on mystery air and I say, what are your qualifications? Do not list your qualifications at that point. Like, you know, bag of gymnastics award, four cycling proficiency at Staple police station in 1983, got a degree, four a levels, couple of GCSE, whatever. I just mean, how do you know that thing? What? You just told us what you know. So your qualification might be that you were watching telly last night and someone happened to ring in with a question that you know the answer to because you saw it on the telly last night. Or, and these are my most magical moments of mystery hour, it might be that you know the answer because you actually invented the thing that the person has asked a question about. Or you might know the answer answer because you are one of three people in the country or even the world who have experience of the issue being discussed. And if we find an answer, an answerer whose qualifications for providing the answer are profoundly impressive, I mean, beyond, like, whoa, that's incredible. Then we give them a Ray liotta, which is the highest accolade that english language radio can bestow. It's probably the highest language any radio program anywhere in the world can bestow, but I can only understand the ones that are in English and I've checked all of them and this is by far the biggest honor that any english language radio program can bestow anywhere in the world, in the english speaking world, and even actually on the english language radio stations in non english speaking countries. Have I covered it? I think we have. Should we crack on or do you need more explanations? Six minutes after twelve is the time Callum is in Preston. Callum, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Callum. Hi. So thanks for having me on the show, by the way. It's a pleasure. You're very welcome. So I want to know why. Why does Australia start the day before we do? So I get that the sun comes up there before it comes up here, but obviously the earth's round, so who's to say that, you know, the 4 march doesn't start in France first and then it goes around the earth, or start in America first, then go around the earth? Well, you know, why do Australia get the day before everybody else, if that makes sense? Yeah, of course it does. So, well, we got. If you got, I mean, you're going to have dawns that differ. You can't. I mean, if it was the middle of the day in one country, in the middle of the night in another country, they can't say it's the same time of day, can they? No, of course. But obviously it's got to say, like, the 4 march has to start at some time. So who decided, or how did it come about that the 4 march would begin in Australia before it begins in England, rather than beginning in England and then working its way around to Australia? Because obviously, because unless we believe that the earth is flat, let's not even go there. Because it's spherical, it's a constant loop. So why does it have to start at that particular point? Why can't it start in Brazil or in the Middle east or somewhere else? Why is it sort of the Pacific and sort of Australia? I know it's technically not quite Australia, but why is it sort of that particular part of the earth that today's date begins on and then ends when it gets back to that particular point and not anywhere else? Yeah. No. Okay. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the a question that kicks off mystery hour this week is who determined time zones? I presume it was ours. It's probably got something to do with empire. So if you know the answer to that you know what to do. Preston is in Guildford, which is geographically inaccurate, but obviously not the point. Preston, question or answer? Morning, James. It's a question, please. I'd like to know why all of the lemons that I buy have pips, but all of the limes that I buy do not. Are you sure? I'm positive. Everything. You've never had a pip in a lime in all your puff? No. No. And I've drunk a lot of gin. I know, but I don't know why. And how can the limes. I mean. Yeah, you're only allowed one question. Well, it's kind of the same kind of question. How do the limes grow if there's no pips, you know, to replant. I don't get it. No, nor do I. Now, I like these questions this week. Let's try and find out for you. No pips in limes. Loads of pips. I mean, loads of pips in lemons. Sometimes I have to use the sieve to process my lemon juice when I'm making fresh, tasty beverages. Preston. Thank you. Neil is in Narberth in south Wales. Neil, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. I was looking at a chart in our kitchen this morning of vitamins. And you got vitamins a to e, and then there's a big gap until you get the vitamin K. Vitamin F, G, h, and I. Well, they probably. You've probably answered your own question, haven't you? I don't know in that they exist, but they're not very common or very beneficial or. I don't know why I'm trying to. Why the hell am I trying to answer this one, Keith? I've never heard of vitamin f or g or h or I. So what have you found? A, b, c, d, e. Yeah. And then it goes to k. Is there anything after k? Things like folic acid and stuff like that. What's vitamin K, then? Oh, it's like, don't do potassium and things like that. I think k is the chemical symbol for potassium. Ah, okay. That's pretty. Are you sure there's a vitamin K? You're 100% because I've never heard of vitamin K. It's not some club you haven't stumbled across some. Some nightclub and mistaken it for an actual vitamin? No special k. I mean, vitamin K. You're on. Let's find out why. Why do they. What's going on with the ABCde gap? Gap. Gap. One, two, skip a few. Vitamin K. Zero. 345-606-0973 similar theme. Samson, Croydon. Question or answer? Hi, James, it's a question. Yes. So the question is, are coconuts a fruit or a nut? I was having this debate a few days ago and there doesn't seem to be any definitive answer. So, foigid you can help. A fruit or a nut? Yep. A coconut. Yeah. Why does it have to be one or the other? Why can't it have a classification all of its own? Um, well, I'd like to know what that classification is, then. So what is a coconut? Yeah, it's a coconut. Is that fruit or not? I'm not sure. I don't think any, and no one's been able to answer it for me. I mean, I can't imagine it could be. Bob, think of anything else that could be a fruit, could be a seed. I'm not sure about that. Well, of course it could. If a banana is a seed, a banana is classed as a fruit. Well, maybe by you, but technically it's a seed, not just you, obviously. Also Tesco. That's a fair point. You buy in the garden center, you buy in the supermarket. All right, what's a coconut in the context of fruits, nuts and seeds? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you're going to answer a question, you have to be certain that you're right. So I don't know what questions might be causing problems on the switchboard at the moment, but people are ringing in to talk about time zones and the question of why. So you need to have some sort of qualification. You can't just say, I just know it, or it's common sense. You need to have some sort of evidence of being right. I hope I've explained that correctly. 1212 is the time. James is in Brentford. James Questioner, answer question, please. Carry on. What determines the total amount of money that's in the world? Oh, Lordy. We're not aiming low today, are we? What do you mean by determining? Well, so I've heard a couple of things. One, obviously the amount of money is no longer linked to the gold reserve or something, but on another note, apparently each credit card transaction by definition, increases the amount of money in the world. Apparently there's also a difference between currency and money, which I'm debt, nor debt and money as well. A credit card transaction doesn't necessarily increase the amount of money in the world. It might increase the amount of debt in the world, but then again, someone's lent you the money. Oh, lord of. But I don't. Can you just ask something about paint colors or something like that. You've gone in with, how do we determine how much money there is in the world? Well, and then you've got currency. Well, all right. You can't. You just can't do it, James. This is an impossible dream. You've got currency flu. Well, it might be a boring answer, but you've got currency fluctuations happening every few nanoseconds as well. So, I mean. So your question needs to be, does anyone know how much money there is in the world? And then if someone. If someone says yes, then you need a supplementary question. All right, leave it with me, James. All right. Not only have I forgotten to write down any of the questions that we've taken so far, I've also somehow managed to prompt one of those flurries on the switchboard that gets my top backroom team in a state of high dudgeon, because loads of people are ringing in and clogging up the switchboard with unhelpful contributions. So do not ring me about time zones, otherwise there won't be any questions left. I need my phone lines. I know it sounds very cocky, but ten is nowhere near enough most days, but Thursdays between twelve and one, I could do 200 phone lines into the studio and then another one for all the people still complaining about the fact that they can't get through. So I'll liaise with Keith. During the looming break, we'll remind ourselves of what questions are still on the board, and then we'll add a version of James's, which is something to do with the total amount of money in the world and how much. How we count. How do you count all the money in the world? There you go, James. You're welcome. And then we'll crack on. So I'll squeeze in one more because Rodri's in Brixton and it would be rude not to. Rodrie. Question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Rodrigo, what is the genetic determination for how tall someone can grow? What do you mean? Well, as in, I kind of want to know the specific. Like, I don't know. I can't do this without you knowing what you're talking about, can I? What do you mean? I mean, basically, what is it that determines how tall someone can grow, can grow or does grow evil? That's a distinction, isn't it? Well, it is, because I don't understand the question, but that's my fault, not yours. Are you asking why we can't grow to an infinite height, or are you asking why you are the height? You are the second one yeah. The. Why are you the height you are? Yeah. And you've got siblings who have the same parents and they're a different height from you. Exactly. But they've also got, you know, different colored eyes, perhaps, and different hair, so. But then we know what. What genes? Yeah, okay. Yeah. What's the genetic. And also nutrition as well? If you. You know, if you'd lived on biscuits all your life, you probably wouldn't be as tall as you are now. Yeah. No, obviously there are environmental factors as well, but I mean, like, the specific. The specific one that determines from your predeterminer. Yeah. The parental. The genetic message from your parents that determines how. How tall you are. I tell you what, mate, I'm usually pretty optimistic on mystery hour, and we do have, by far the best informed listeners on the planet. But if you get an answer to that one, then I will give you the money myself. This is LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. So where do time zones come from? The botanist, James Wong has answered this question on Twitter and appalling favouritism, because the blue tick is easier to find on my Twitter feed than the non blue tick. But I'm not, obviously, going to accept his answer on Twitter. But why do limes not have seeds while lemons do? What's going on with vitamins? I'm not sure there is a vitamin k. I should have checked during the break. But anyway, why do they go up to e and then take a big sort of holiday before they return? Is a coconut a fruit or none of the above? And I was wrong about bananas. I knew they weren't fruits. That's the gag. Amazes children and things, but it's a herb of banana, technically. I think I probably got that wrong now as well. How do we calculate how much money there is in the whole wide world? And what's the genetic determinant of how tall we are? I've got a bad feeling about this week. I think these are wonderful questions, but I've got a horrible feeling that some of them are not answerable ever. We'll find out. Tom's in Sheffield. Tom, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Tom. It's the dirt line one. I'm surprised he didn't get this. Go on, if I'm honest. Well, you know me, I don't really like to answer questions. I think it spoils the fun for everybody else. And those rounds of applause, they just irritate me. Carry on, Tom. It's all to do with and universities for coordinated time and Greenwich mean time. Right. So we set the international date line 12 hours away from UTC or Greenwich mean time. So we exported Greenwich mean time around the world. Yes and no. It's the Rose line and the Greenwich mean time and the 180th meridian line. But who drew up the model under which it becomes the 180th meridian line? We did. Yeah. Yeah. So we could claim credit. There was an Italian who first suggested it. And because we were such a powerful maritime nation, we kind of wrote the rulebook for maritime rules and regulations. And that has evolved into what was invented standardized time. Because obviously, before standardized time, we set our clocks to the sun. So when it was midday was a high point in the sun. And then because of railway and the explosion in railways, we standardized our time within the UK and then exploited it around the world. Question. What do I mean? Question answer, qualifications. I'm a history teacher. It's a good answer, then, to a good question, actually. And now I can say categorically, do not ring me with regard to the time zone question, because there is hair being torn out in the production studio at an unfamiliar rate. So round of applause for Tom, please. Thank you. No, thank you. The students are lucky to have you. Halla is in Shepherd's Bush. I can take an educated guess which question you are going to answer, but we must go through the motions. Question or answer? Halla. Hi. Hi, James. It's an answer. Is it to do with chemicals? Well, yes. I'd like to actually just bring up one point that there is a vitamin k. Yes. Good. I'm relieved to hear it. I would have been a shame if the entire question had been built upon a false premise. Well, I just wanted to point that out to. Because you said that you weren't sure. No, it's the vitamins question. And yes, we have ABCD and E. There is a vitamin f, but strictly speaking, vitamin f is actually not a vitamin as we know it. It's a combination of two fats, linolenic acid and for brain health and so on. Then there is a vitamin g, but vitamin g is actually one of the b vitamins, so it's been reclassified as b two. Then there is a vitamin H, which is b seven. Why did they do all that? I mean. No, you're absolutely right. That's not good, actually. Well done. That's me told. Carry on. Vitamin I. There is no vitamin I. Why not? Because it would look like vitamin one. It would just be confusing. It's a bit like number plates on cars, there's some characters that aren't used. Yeah, I'll give you that one. Yeah. Thank you. Vitamin J. Vitamin J was actually looked at as being very similar in property to vitamin g, which is the b two. So then they dropped it. Okay. And that takes us to k. And are there any after kicking? No qualifications. I'm a pharmacist, but I've recently actually signed up to an open university vitamins and minerals supplement course because I just am really passionate about people coming to the pharmacy and asking all these different questions. And for me to draw my knowledge from 20 years ago, I'm actually in the middle of a course with the open university. Fantastic. If you're angling for a Ray Liotta, you're going to have to do a lot better. You're going to have to do a lot better. That. But I will allow, if Tom's pupils are lucky to have him as their history teacher, then your customers and patients and clients are lucky to have you as a pharmacist. You can have this. Round of applause. I'll take that. Vitamin J, actually, by coincidence, is the name of my new dance music show on Capital Extra. It's going to really rock. Aisling is in Epsom. Aisling, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. I can't believe I'm talking to you. I'm so nervous. I'm a hologram. I'm a figment of your imagination. This is Keith doing his world famous James O'Brien impression. Carry on, Ash. Did I say your name correctly? You're dead. Indeed, yes. There you go. What a great. I'm an o apostrophe. Too bitter. Are you allowed to go to Pontins? That's the crucial question. Well, I might sneak in under my married name. There we go. Yes. It's an answer about the growth question. Oh, yes. Yeah. It's to do with. We all have growth hormones, a certain amount of growth hormone, when we're born, and that determines how tall we would be. Also, the height of your father and your mother and the height you'll grow to is usually between their heights and. Yeah, it's the hormone. You get it in the front of the baby book, don't you? I mean, you get a broad idea if you know how tall mum is and how tall dad is, you can make a rough estimate, in normal circumstances, of how tall the baby was. Be. Yeah. That's it, yeah. Qualifications? No, you've done it. That's it. That's the answer. I was hoping to enjoy indulging a little bit more small talk, aisling, seeing as you were so excited to get on the radio, but you've gone and closed it down in a matter of seconds. What are your qualifications? Well, I'm not a scientist or anything, but I did. I do have a son who had growth hormone deficiency as a child and so I learned a lot about it then, and it's because he is a twin, we noticed he wasn't growing as much as his identical twin, so he investigated it and that's how he discovered it. Yeah. So I learned about it through that. And then you went on a crash course and found out, actually, great work. Round of applause for you. Thank you, James. Thank you. I'll see you at Pontin. I'll see you at Pontins, then. You take care. 1227 is the time. Mamie is in Gloucester. Mamie. Question or answer? I have a question, please, James. Hi. Thanks for having me on the show. You're very welcome. My question is, how accurate is the world's population at any given point? And does it take into account the world's tribal and indigenous population? You can only have one question. Well, it leads to the others. Well, it might well lead to the other, but I don't care. You're only allowed one question. That's how it goes. I mean, because you. I mean, can you even answer that? How accurate is. I mean, it's a bit like the money question, isn't it? Isn't it just, how do we. How do we calculate the total population of the world? Yeah, but people die every day. People get born. I'm sure those people get registered, but how about the, you know, the indigenous people and everybody else? That probably doesn't. By indigenous you mean people living away from civilization? Yeah, pretty much, yeah. So it's a much misused word, but. You mean how can you count people if they're living in the middle of the Amazon or something? Exactly. Yes. Okay, I'm going to change your question because I can and I'm in charge and you're not allowed to argue. And it is instead, how do they work out how many people there are in the world? And I think a good answer to that question will actually address your supplementary, your secondary. So you need to. You need to trust me to keep. To keep the second bit. Second bit of the question alive, maybe. Thank you. It's coming up to 1229. We've done the time zones. Why do lemons have loads of pips while limes have hardly any? What is a coconut? You're not allowed to say a coconut? Is it a nut, a seed, a herb or something else? Is it taxonomy? Is that the word that I should be using at this point? If I was better educated? I don't know. How do they calculate how much money there is in the world? And how do they calculate how many people there are in the world? And how reliable are either calculations? Zero. 345-606-0973 Paul's in Bolton. Paul, have I got time for Paul? I'm going to be. Why do you say yes? You tell me off when I'm late and then when I look at the clock and we've got 10 seconds until the news, you say, yeah, go on, squeeze in. Paul, question or answer? Paul. Paul's gone now. We frightened him with our banter, you see. He didn't want to walk into a domestic like that. Thomas Watts is here now with the headlines mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1234 is the time. Lemons and limes, coconuts, money and people. If you can't work out what I mean by that, then you're listening to the wrong show. Richard's in Oxford. Richard, question or answer? Afternoon, Jimbo. Hello, Richard. My question is, before the advent of emails and Twitter, what I'd like to know is, what was the button used for on the keyboard? Accounts. Accounts. 45 barrels of apples at ten pounds a barrel. Is that. That's what they used to use it for when they were typing up? Yeah. Well, about your wisdom, taking it. Ask me what my qualifications are. Qualifications? I've had it on mystery before and miraculously, this is one of the answers I've remembered. Wow. It's an accountancy answer. And I think it was an accountant that told me. So. I'm taking my round of applause before anybody tries to steal it from me. Thank you, Richard. You know, back in the day, I used to take several rounds of applause every. Every week on mystery. I. Since Keith's started, somehow I've started getting fewer and fewer. This is something we shall rectify in the coming months. Paul's in Bolton. Paul, question or answer? Answer. G'day. Hello. Did you disappear before the break because you thought that you'd stumbled into a domestic between me and the producer? Or was it just a technical glitch? No, no, I simply paused to take breath before I leapt into the middle of your domestic. Very, very wise. While you were taking breath, I presumed you'd legged it and moved on to the next corner. All human life is here, Paul. Carry on with your answer. What have you got? International date line. Young you were close with your suspicion of empire? It wasn't quite empire. Okay. Because we were the foremost naval nation. I did say that. I said maritime. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's right. So the. It was decided officially that we would recognize Greenwich as the prime meridian. So that's the. That's the line of zero longitude, the international date line. So that the prime meridian appears exactly in the middle of the rotation of the earth. Yes. The international date line is 180 degrees opposite Greenwich, which happens to be in the. In the Pacific. It's changed a few times over the years. The last time was in the 1920s. I think they've shifted it around various islands and so on. Sure. So, in layman's terms, you'd need to have a common calibration in order to have internationally meaningful measurements for navigating. Correct. It has to have the same source as it were. Otherwise measurements become meaningless and the source is Greenwich. And the international date line is exactly opposite Greenwich on the other side of the globe, so that Greenwich appears halfway through 24 hours cycle. That's a great answer. What are your qualifications? 40 years an astronomer and a PhD in astrophysics. Yeah. It's not exactly rocket science, is it? How many times have you heard that joke? Plenty of times. Yeah. It was very polite of you to at least feign a chuckle, Paul. I'm grateful. I'm pathetically grateful. I actually sat in a meeting one time with a bunch of ex NASA guys and somebody said at the meeting, well, it's not exactly rocket science. And there was a room full of rocket scientists, so that was quite funny. Well, I could give you a round of applause. I can't give you a room full of rocket scientists. 1237 is the time Rachel is in Birmingham. Rachel, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Rachel. It's the coconut question. A coconut is actually a droop. A what? A droop. D r U V E. It's a type of fruit. Okay. What else is a droop? Walnuts. Droops. Not nuts? No. Well, they're a type of nut, but it's like a. Hang on. Can a droop be a nut? Can a nut be a droop and can a droop be a knot? Yes. What do you mean, yes? So is a coconut a fruit or not? Like, I'm a people pleaser. Okay. So am I, actually, these days, but I shall moderate my tone in that case. So is it coke? So let me do the questions in incremental stages, okay? Okay. Is it coconut? A nut? A coconut is a drink. It's not a nut. So it's not a nut? No. Right, there we go. And other drupes include walnuts, so a walnut, technically, is not a nut. You can't quote me on that one. I don't know. All right. But a mango is a drupe as well. What's the definition of a droop? Do we know? So a mango is not a fruit? No. No. So it has a fleshy. A droop has a fleshy outer coating. Yeah. And then the seed is in the middle of that. So, coconuts. Actually, the kind of hard coconuts we get in the supermarket are the green. So the coconut is the seed, the coconut we buy in the supermarket is the seed. And the droop is determined by the fact that the seed is inside the fleshy casing. Like a mango. Yep. But because it's hollow, we get all confused and we rarely see. Unless you're at carnival in Notting Hill, where you can buy a delicious coconut with a straw in it to drink, and some dude with a sort of scythe will slice the top off in a deeply frightening fashion and then hand you a cooling beverage. Then you see it in its full droop glory. That's much better explanation than mine. What are your qualifications? I did a degree in horticulture. Was one of the few that stuck in my mind. Well, it stuck to our mutual benefit. Rachel, have a round of applause. What a lovely answer. No, thank you. So it was a dream. I said, the fellow that asked the question, it might not be a fruit or a knot, and it turns out it isn't. But I thought it would be a seed or perhaps an herb. Whereas in fact, it's a drupe. A drupe? Dan's in Southfields. Dan. Question or answer? Hello, James. Hello. It's a question. Carry on. A question. Bear with me on this one. So, do astronauts. It might sound silly. Do astronauts, when they go to space, do they take any sort of weaponry with them? Do they take any guns or a revolver aside, something like that? Now, I know what you're thinking. I don't mean, like, in case they get, like an alien thing. I'm thinking more maybe. Well, I mean, that's a possibility. No, I know what you're thinking. What if. What if one of your astronauts goes a bit tonto, but that. No, I wasn't thinking. I was thinking more possession of it. I think of security measures on your spaceship, you see. But no. Anyway, I shouldn't have interrupted you. Carry on. Well, yeah, it's probably not good to fire one up there anyway, I would imagine. But. But more if they land it. If they. If they landed in sort of hostile territories when they came back to earth, like a. Like a pilot, you know, might crash in a. In a. You know, they don't necessarily. Don't necessarily know where they're going to come down. I mean, obviously they plan to come down where they. Where they come down, but if something went wrong and they ended up somewhere else, maybe they needed something for that. That's quite a good question, isn't it? That's a very good question, actually. So, because they have no. I mean, they might get picked up by pirates in the middle of the ocean. Exactly. Right. Just bear with me for a minute, then, Keith, shaking his head. Why are you shaking your head, Keith? Well, they know you. They might think they know where it's going to land, but you. You know, stuff, wrong. Stuff will happen. Things might go wrong. What about escape pods that they don't. Anything like that? A communication breakdown? Have you not seen that Sandra Bullock film? They don't have full control over everything. CPS goes down and they get lost. CPS goes down, anything could happen. So do they have a gun, just in case? I mean. Yeah, I. Surreal. I mean, I doubt it for the reasons you point out. I thought it would be a bigger risk to have a firearm on a spaceship than it would be to risk being picked up by pirates before NASA arriving their dinghies, wouldn't you? But. Yeah, yeah. But listen, you could end up in. You could come down in the middle of Afghanistan, you could come down in the middle of a war zone, you could do. Keith's adamant that you wouldn't, but I think I'm with you on this, that you could, and if you could, then you'd want to have a gun. But would that risk of being unexpectedly landed in hostile territory, what's the bigger risk? Having a gun on board a spaceship with all the attendant disasters that that could obviously cause, or the slight risk, but I still think an existing risk of landing in hostile territory. What a lovely question, Dan. Thank you. Do a quick roundup in a minute. But first, Alan is in Maidenhead. Alan, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer, hopefully. Carry on, Alan. Well, it is an answer, hopefully it's a correct answer. I am trying to scratch my head back to my university days, which was a long time ago, but it's the money one. Oh, good. And from what I recall in economics lectures, all the central banks in the world follow the m one, m two, m three, money supply calculations which characterizes money per cash, per deposit, per business, et cetera. And they keep a running tally of this. So if we trust our global central banks, all we have to do is just tally up all of their money supply. So every bank in the world is in a. Every central bank. No, no, no, hang on. You're cleverer than me. I'm explaining it to myself, not to you. So every bank in the world is a client of a central bank, is that right? Yes and no. I guess the central bank is always the bank of last resort for the commercial banks. Yes. Yes. So client maybe isn't the right word, but they're under the auspices of. Under the authority of a central bank. Yes. Right. The central banks will print physical money and they'll also print digital money. Yes. Okay. So if you tossed it all of those up, you'd have a fairly reliable. What about when money gets destroyed? Well, they tally up, I guess that's the one thing. Usually cash is going to have a bit of a rounding error because some people might destroy their. In circulation. Yes. Got you. And how much of the total amount of money on the planet do you think is in circulation as cash? Oh, goodness knows. I just thought you sounded really clever. I thought I'd give you a chance to big up your part there, Alan, and you'd blow it. You've thrown it back in my face. What are your qualifications for the first answer, which I think sounds correct? I guess a finance degree and been working in banks my whole career. I won't say it so modestly. This is what you do. This is my world, James. Oh, I thought about that. Round of applause for Alan. Thank you so much. No, thank you so much. It was a lovely course, a lovely mystery hour, actually, after starting in slightly strange circumstances. Don't blow it. Annie and Sutton. Question or answer? I hope it still carries on being a lovely. So do I. Now I have an answer. We'll see. It's an answer to the gun in a spaceship. Really? Go on. Yes, it is. And I mean, maybe not right now, but I went. Oh, you don't want that. Yes, they can carry guns in spaceships. Qualifications. I went to the science museum a few years ago that had an exhibition on the soviet space race. Oh, yeah. And soviet astronauts would have a gun so that if they landed in the forest and were attacked by a bear, they could. Thank you, Keith. Defend themselves. Exactly, mate. If they landed in the forest and were attacked by a bear, so it doesn't matter, they might well know where they're landing. In fact, you even said yourself, they all land in Russia or the ocean, but they don't control whether they land in a whopping great forest full of bears, Keith. Do they? So they need a gun. Exactly. Round of applause for Annie. Thank you. Stay there, Annie, because Keith's in charge of the applause. Another round of applause for Annie. And now a round of applause for bears everywhere. Great work. 1245 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312. 49 is the time and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we've done the money, all the money in the world. We've done the coconuts, we've done the lemons. We haven't done the lemons and the limes. Why haven't we done the lemons and the limes? There's an open goal there. Why do lemons have pips and limes don't have pips. Zero. 345-606-0973 what is or how do they calculate the total population of the world? Rather magnificently. We've answered the question of whether or not astronauts take weapons into space. We have identified at least one example of that indeed being the case. And I've probably got time for a couple more questions as well. Actually. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need if you can answer any of the questions currently on the board, or if you would like to add one of your own. Marilyn's been in touch from Jamaica to say that all of her limes actually have seeds in, which doesn't tally completely with the information I've received from one of the country's leading botanists, James Wong. But between the two posts, perhaps the unvarnished truth will prove to lie. 1250 is the time Martin is in. Warwick Martin, question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on. Martin. I'd invite you to open your hand out, palm side up, and with each of your fingers, starting with your thumb, place it towards the center of your hand. And they all move independently, apart from your little pinky. Why does your last finger always bring in the ring finger? I think you've overcomplicated the question a bit. Do that again. That's possibly true. So, yeah, put your. Put your hand out, palm side up. Yeah. And move each of your fingers independently towards the center of your palm. Yeah. Oh, okay. And they all move one at a time until you get to your smallest finger and where it brings in the ring finger at the same time. Why do the two fingers have to move together. What's the reason? I don't mean, look, it's possible I'm a freak of nature, but that's not how my hand works. Ah. Can you ask someone else to do it? Because you might just be like my daughter. What's happening? If you move your last. No, I understand, but what's wrong with me and your daughter? Because somehow she could move her last finger towards the center of her hand without the next finger also coming and joining it. No, I can't do that. Well, I can. If I really tense my ring finger, I can. But if I move my index finger to the center of my hand, it brings my ring finger with it. No, no. Starting from thumb, thumb. No. If I bring my thumb in, my little finger moves. They're filming this, mate. They're filming this. I'm not making it up. The cameras are on. What's wrong with me? I think we need to ask someone else. Can Keith try it? Because I think maybe Keith's not real. Okay, just wait for anyone else that might be looking through the window. I don't know. Can anyone try this? Keith. Thumb bends all the way back to his wrist. Finger always brings in the ring finger. Listen, you can't just keep saying things. I've got two hands. Breaking news. I've got two hands here. And if I move the. What's the one called when you swear at people? Is that the. That the index. That's. No, the index is the finger that you. The middle. Thank you, Keith. The one you point with. No, I know. Stop it. I'm not talking to you. I've got a middle finger, right? I bring in the middle finger to the palm and it brings the. It brings the ring finger with it. No, not as. Not as acutely as. Listen, we were dealing in absolutes. We were dealing in absolutes a minute ago. Not, not, not acutenesses and, and nuances. Okay. Right. I beg. I'll give you a different challenge then. Try and get. Put your little finger. This is just a wrong false premise. Yeah, and, and make it want to stay. Yeah, stay. While holding all the other fingers up. And I bet you it pops back up. No, you are. You're the weird. Everyone's doing it. Can everyone do it? Just put your little fingers down in the palms of your hand. Can you hold it there? No, you can't hold it. This is insane. It's possibly not great radio, but it's absolutely fascinating. So I've got. I bet you. I bet you there are people at home now going bloody hell. It's. Careful. We've got enough. We've got. Oh, sorry. Blooming heck. Yeah. Bubbling goldfish. Apologies to Ofkom. Well, everybody's different. I don't know quite what the question is now. Yeah, but why is it that it happens in the first place? Why can't each digit move independent of the other? It can. Apart from the little thing. Mine can. Yeah, but you're unique. You're not. Clearly not unique. Stay there, stay there, stay there. Robin thinks Robin's. Robin's what? Robin, what are your qualifications? I'm a consultant orthopedic surgeon. Do you specialize in fingers upper limb? Just say, yes. Fingers. Yes, finger. Right, doctor fingers. Doctor fingers online, too. Martin, stay. Pay attention. Robin, what the hell is going on? On my radio program, there are some slight anatomical variations, but most of us are put together in a very similar way. Yes, you've got. Each finger has two tendons that bend them, one that bends the middle knuckle, one that bends the end knuckle. The extensors, the ones that straighten them, are slightly more simplistic. Each one has generally got one tendon that extends it all. But the crucial thing is, in between some of those tendons on the back of the handle, you've got structures called junk tari that tether the extensor tendons together of some fingers. Right? So then when you're bending them down, the tethered extensor tendons are pulling the one next to it down. So have I got better developed tensor extender tendons than other people? James, I suspect you're better developed in almost every facet. Well, thank you, darling, but that's not what we're discussing here today. Why does. Why do my fingers. Because you are. There are anatomical variants. We're not exactly the same. So you probably have junk tari. No, junk tari or junk tari between different extensor tendons. But your. Your extensor tendons are less tethered than the other coolers. There it is, then. Martin's in Warwick, so. And that, in your experience, would. Martin would be in the majority and I would be in the minority or not? Yes. Yes. Wow. Um, we already know you're. There are other. There are other ones as well. There's something called palmaris longus, which is a tendon. Tendon at the front of your wrist. This is the. When you start bending your fingers against, they tethered the palm of your hand. And those are residual from monkeys swinging through the trees. Not all of us have got them either. Okay, um, I've just. Before you go, I'm going to give you some big, big round of applause. It's 1256. You need to ring now. If you. If you've got answers to any of the questions on the board, how do they calculate the population of the world? And why do limes have pips? Have no pips, but lemons do have pips. You need to ring now because we're going to lose the phone lines otherwise. Zero. 345-606-0973 but don't worry, because I barely started here. Martin, your question has been comprehensively and categorically answered by doctor fingers. I would just like to say, oh, for heaven's sake. Does he get invited to many dinner parties? You should do. He's coming to my next one. This is absolutely fascinating, but are you happy? Are you happy with the answer you've received? Do you know what? I'm gonna have to replay this program and dissect it. You and me both. I don't know how the hell you got on air. The heads are gonna roll after I've picked back over the tapes on this program. Robin, you. Robin, you get a round of applause. Jump tari. Jump. Junk Torri. Junk Tori. What do we want? Junk torry. When do we want it? I don't have no idea, to be honest, but there you go. That's something that. There it is. We have. We have a definitive answer, a conclusion and a round of applause. And who'd have thought that that could all happen in the space of the same six minutes live on the radio? We're going to squeeze in one more. Joseph's in Stroud. Joseph, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Joseph. Right. Limes. Yes. Okay, so the reason that limes don't, or some limes don't have seeds and other limes do, is because we bred limes so that they'll produce a fruit which doesn't have a seed. And they do that in a. Essentially, they people will. Will breed limes until they find one. This is one that doesn't have a seed, and then they'll graft it from then on. Right. So, and they'll take. They'll take a graft of them and they'll put it onto a root and that root will grow into a plant which will produce fruits with no seeds on it. The lady who lives in Jamaica, she probably lives in a place where limes are either endemic or somebody at some point in time had a pit from us for a pit from a lime and started planting them there. It is limes like other palm fruits and any of the rosacea, any of the rose families won't grow true from seed. So their family, their offspring, will not be like their parent? No. This is a beautiful answer. Qualifications? Studied? Orchard management. I'm going to give you a round of applause. I know Rob in London is waiting on the line, but, Rob, we're out of time. I promise I shall make special room for you next time you ring. A round of applause for Joseph. That's it from me for another day. We will do it all again tomorrow from ten. But the next voice here on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. And my hands did what your hands did, James. It must be an irish seaman. Let's do that next, though. Your funk Tories. Your funk Tories are out of control. Sheila, folks. I knew it. I knew it. Thanks very much, James. Now to the budget and some people's responses to it. The OBR chairman, Richard Hughes, says there is no provision for virus related spending next year and that is a bad thing. So, NHS catch up, social care, expanding test track and trace vaccination, repeat program and maybe, you know, finessing that program and catch up schooling the IFS Institute for Fiscal Studies, who will hear from in half an hour. They put the boot in somewhat as well. Their director says the chancellor would struggle to make the savings he's planning and doubt whether the jumping corporation tax from 19% to 25% for the biggest companies as the biggest revenue raising measure in the budget completely would deliver the 17 billion that they're hoping for. We'll also get an update on what's going on with the royals on your radio on global player and play, LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.