Where do the doves go?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It is four minutes after twelve and it is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else in the radio universe. You ring in with a question and someone else rings in with an answer. All right? I mean, it doesn't sound that exciting when I put it like that, but you're gonna have to trust me that it is. It is the most reliably amusing hour that we spend together every week. And by reliably, I mean always amusing, but usually the most amusing. But occasionally we stumble across a subject that can be even. I'm just burbling. Now, you can also win a mystery hour game, which is brilliant. And yours if you make my favorite contribution of the day. The full terms and conditions for the competition are at LBC dot co dot UK dot. If you want to find out more about the game, or indeed, get in early with your Christmas purchases, or why not treat yourself? You deserve it. You've worked hard this week. You deserve a little present. Head over to mysteryhour dot co dot UK and fill your boots. I think we'll just crack straight on, shall we? This week? I don't see why not. The number. The number remains the same whether you have a question or an answer. Zero. 345-606-0973 you're not allowed to look things up. I want to make that absolutely clear. So when you ring in with your answer, I will ask what your qualifications are. And by that I don't mean I've got a bag of gymnastics award for or I passed my cycling proficiency at Stourport police station in 1986. I mean, that'd be a coincidence. That'd be two of us. I mean, how do you know the thing that you know? So it might be because you've got a PhD in applied mathematics, or it might because you saw, I don't know, someone talking about it on the telly last night. So it doesn't matter how you know, I just need to establish how you know what you know so that I can establish whether or not it is definitive. And if it's definitive, you'll get a round of applause. There is one other gift, of course. There is one other phenomenon in my gift, which is not confined to mystery hour, although mister has been the scene of more of them than anything else. And that is, of course, the Ray Liotta, which we have had recently in pretty spectacular circumstances, but not on mystery hour. So if you ring in with qualifications that are above and beyond the wildest dreams of a humble radio presenter. Then we have a very special treat for you. But that means it's a bit like you get a question about a sandwich toaster and your dad invented the sandwich toaster. Is that ageist? Would you still be alive if you invented the sandwich? Well, anyway, if you did invent the sandwich toaster, you'd get a ray Liotta. If you rang in to answer a question about the sandwich toaster. I don't know why I say the sandwich toaster as if it is like a sort of definitive thing. It could just be Asan. But you invented the sandwich. The first sandwich toaster. And I don't mean a toaster, I mean a toasted sandwich toaster. Like a breville is what we had. Should we crack on? I think we should. Seven after twelve. Juliet. Cin Marlo. Juliet. Question or answer? It's a question, James. I'm just laughing at how many times you said sandwich toaster. Sandwich toaster. The sandwich. Not just any sandwich toaster. The sandwich toaster. Thank you. Exactly. If I may just start off by saying that you're a bit of a hero in our household and it's extremely exciting to actually talk to you. Oh, how lovely. Thank you very much. Have you read Robert surrogood's books? Oh, no, I haven't. Because they're set in Marlowe. It's a beautiful part of the world. Yes, yes, yes, yes. No, I know. The death in Marlo. Give it a whirl. They're wonderful books. Wonderful. Yes, well, they're all sitting nicely in the front of Marlowe bookshop together next to Richard Oseman's books are there as well. Well, you need to liberate Roberts at the first opportunity. Okay, I will do. Yes, yes, I will. Yeah. You're a huge hero in our house. My husband, I think he has an intellectual man crush on you. Oh, that's delightful. It's mutual. He's a nice man. You married him. Well, I'm burdling on like you did before, so I'll carry on. Okay, so my question is to do with rugby, which I thought was quite apt at the moment. We were watching one of the matches the other night, and when all the lists of the names came up in the positions and the players, etcetera, the numbers all have a position. You've got the number eleven for left wing, 14 for right wing, I think ten splankle, et cetera. But number eight. Poor number eight doesn't have a name. Why is number eight only called number eight. As in prop, lock, scrum, half fly, half insult. Yeah, they all have numbers. But number eight doesn't have a name. It's called number eight. It doesn't have its other name. So why does number eight not have a name? I've got a. Please don't answer it. Do you not want me to answer? I thought I was a hero in your household. Yes, you are. Yes, you are. Absolutely, yes. Yes. Carry on. No, I won't. I think it's evolved. I think the French call it something else, and there's a clue there as to why we don't. So I'll put it on the board, Juliet, because I can tell that you're going to be deep after such a lovely talk up. I think I'd feel terrible if I let you down by answering when you clearly, clearly want a proper expert to come on. It's a great question, though, I think. Thank you. Well, I have had about six other questions in the lineup over the past year or so. My husband said they weren't good enough. Listen to him. What does he know? Honestly, I don't know. So why is he a number eight as opposed to, you know, a kind of back row anchor or something like that? Although you probably want to be shouting that on a rugby pitch on a regular bear. Juliet. Lovely stuff. Thank you very much indeed. Steve is in Bromsgrove, which is part of the world. I also know Steve. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Why did humor come into our evolution? That's obvious. Is it? Yeah. Gone. Well, so it's all about. You know what it's all about? No, gone. Carry on. Reproducing in it. It's all about reproducing your genes. Okay. And funny people are more attractive than unfunny people. That doesn't answer your question, actually, at all, does it? It doesn't know. We were just chatting the other day about how, you know, obviously, comedy's changed over the time. We're actually at the Edinburgh Fringe festival when this topic came up, and then we. Then it sort of. The question went back to, why did it start in the first place, really? I mean, you can see. You can see other species almost laughing at stuff, can't you? I think so, yeah. I mean, I don't think that answers the question, but, yeah. I don't know. Would it even be evolution? Would it even be evolution? Why do we have a sense of humor? Why do we find stuff funny? Is that the question? Pretty dull without it, wouldn't it? Yes, it would. Yeah. Yeah. Why do we find stuff funny? Why do we have a sense of humor? I like that question a lot. I'd be. I don't know. I mean, what would it be? An anthropologist who would know the answer to this? Possibly. Yeah, you would. No, no chance, mate. And I love it. It's a great question. Thank you, Steve. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Why do we have a sense of humor? Does it have an evolutionary purpose? I mean, to put your enemies. But that doesn't explain why it exists. Well, if it came about as a genetic quote, came about with consciousness. Oh, I could sit here now for the next 20 minutes talking absolute gibberish. That's how. The mark of what a good question it is. But I won't. Jane's in Telford. Jane, question or answer? Question, please. Yes. Okay, so we're both kids of the eighties. Yes. And in the eighties, we would stroke our chins and say, chinny rack on. Yes, we would. It's true. And also jet f three, toot and car moon. I never said toot and car moon. Toot and car moon. I never. I never. I did. Jimmy Hill. Jimmy Hill. Oh, yeah. Jimmy Hill was another one. And jet f three. I don't know where Jeffrey came from either. Or do I? No, that one. No, but where does it come from? Why did we do it? Chinny reckon you got a long chin. Yeah. You go chinny. Reckon if you thought somebody was. Well, if you stroke your chin. I had no idea. Well, the Jimmy Hill, it all goes back to the chin. So Jimmy Hill obviously evolved from chinny, reckon, because Jimmy Hill had a famously big chin. Yeah. And toot and car moon as well. Oh, toot and Carmoon had a big chin. Yeah. So it's all about a big chin. Do you stroke your chin when you're being skeptical? Yes. Exactly. Where does that come from? Well, that's where it comes from. So. But you strike. So you say something and I don't believe it, and I start stroking my chin like that. I'm acting. Now, this will work well on the YouTube. So say something that's not true. You know, like that Nigel Farrow seems like a nice bloke or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Boris is ice. There you go. Oh, I stroke my chin. There, you see a bit. And then over the years, I don't just stroke my chin, I go, I don't know what's happened to your phone? I go in for a kind of. Oh, chinny chin chin. Chinny chin. Chin. Chinny. Chin chin. But why are you stroking your chin? I think you just. I don't know. All right. Why did. Yeah. Chins. What have chins got to do with skepticism? Yeah. And the chin iron. Yeah, well, that's where. I mean, that comes next. But we need to establish the relationship between the chin and the disbelief. Exactly. Yeah. Great question. Great work, Jane. Thank you. I'm going to. I'm going to write down chins as my little reminder of what that question was. About 13 minutes after twelve is the time. You just. You do, don't you? Chin stroking. But did chin stroke. I like that. I like all these questions, but I'm not massively optimistic that we're going to get answers to any of them yet. Emma is in Hawleigh. Emma, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Emma. Okay. James, I am a menopausal woman and I would like to know why menopausal women get hot flushes. I totally understand all the mood swings, the lack of sleep and all that, but why hot flushes? What's that all about? Why would it have a different source from the other stuff? Just sort of. I mean, I don't want to sound. All the other hormones regulate your mood. Yeah, but why heat? Why do women suddenly go up in temperature by ten degrees? What has that got to do with a lack of estrogen? Anything at all? Yeah, okay, I like it. Regulation. Is it the thyroid gland? Why am I talking now? Emma, I'm actually a menopause blogger and I want to know the answer to this from a doctor because I don't get it. It's like blushing from your feet up and it doesn't make any sense to me. No, I mean. All right, you're on with the biological, anatomical explanation. Yes, please. Hot flushes. Okay. And then you can blog about the excitement of being on the mystery out. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I can. Then I can just blurt it out and pretend it's all my information. That's what we all do. We all do that. There'll be a tipping point when so many people are listening to Misjao that none of us can pass off what we learn from it as proper knowledge anymore. We'll have to concede where we heard it. Okay, so, hot flushes, chins, humour, and the number eight. You got answers for any of those? You know what to do. Zero. 345-606-0973 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1217 is the time. Mystery hour continues. Four questions that need answers. Why do we call the number eight in rugby the number eight when the other 14 players all have proper job titles like fullback and winger? Why do we have a sense of humour? I love that question. I can't tell you how much I love that question. Sorry, I just punched my microphone again. I do apologize. I. Why do we have a sense of humour? I mean, it might be a really obvious answer. It might be an impossible one. Why do we associate chins with skepticism? Whether you're going chinny chin chin or Jimmy Hill. Jimmy Hill. What is it about chins that helps us to express skepticism? And why do menopausal women have hot flushes? Quite a lot. There something for everybody? Stephen is in Cambridge. Stephen, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question and it's a bit of a weird one. And I don't know exactly where I got to when I was thinking about it. So I was thinking about famous people over the years who've been assassinated, like Lincoln, JFK, people like that. And just made me wonder, why is it said that they're assassinated and they're not murdered? So what, basically, how important do you have to be to say that you're assassinated rather than being murdered? I don't think it's about that. Because if Lincoln had been killed by misses Lincoln, it would have been a murder, not an assassination. So what makes it an assassination rather than a murderer? If it's someone that you don't know. Yeah. If I go down the street and, you know, murder someone, I've murdered that person, but I've not assassinated them. Yeah. I mean, there's not like a hard and fast rule, but it's an assassination is done for what you might describe as public reasons rather than private reasons. So it's a public figure who is being murdered for reasons associated with their public status. So when a politician is murdered by a white supremacist terrorist, it becomes an assassination. But if. Well, I'll say it again. If misses Lincoln had murdered Abraham Lincoln, it would not be an assassination. So when Mark Chapman killed John Lennon, it's an assassination because he's killing John Lennon precisely because of his public status, because of his public interventions, because he's John Lennon. Not because he's got on his nerves in a road rage incident. Okay. So then I guess I trust you'll know this better than I will. Go on. Since you've unfortunately been murdered in the public life. And you may be able to tell me if the headline said that they were assassinated, if the phone line went south then I don't. I mean, you're only really allowed one question. You're not really allowed supplementaries, but you can have another go. But if the phone line doesn't work, then we'll call it quits. What did you just say, Steve? Okay, so basically, I'm thinking about british politics and politicians who've been, unfortunately, murdered over the years. I'm just trying to remember. Headlines. They're all assassinations. They're all assassinations. But you might find certainly some coverage in right wing newspapers of assassinations undertaken by terrorists with very similar views on immigration to the editors of those newspapers, they sometimes balk at the language that you might expect to be used. But they are most definitely assassinations because they are done for political reasons. The killing of someone for a reason linked entirely to their public status. So, you know, JFK, Martin Luther King, always assassinations. And Joe Cox, an assassination. David Amos, an assassination it is. The last one's a little different, actually, because I'm not sure we ever learned the reasons behind what had motivated that man, but because it's a politician and not known personally to the killer, I'd file that under assassination and terrorism, of course. And there's my round of applause. Thank you, Stephen. Jonathan's in Croxdale. Jonathan, question or answer? Hi, James. It's. Answer, yes. It's to do with the humor one you, as usual, were very, very close but hadn't quite nailed. Why go on? So in common with most things that are very prevalent in populations, it's because it's sexually attractive. So obviously that gets passed down, which is what you nailed the reason why. But you don't. Is it hereditary? Because you could. I mean, do we inherit a sense of humor from our parents? Well, this is. What I'm going to go on to say, is because it's an unfakable demonstration of intelligence. Yeah, it's rather. It's rather like art or, you know, many other things that we imagine. If you listen to someone in a pub who's just memorized a load of possibly slightly racist jokes and, you know, they're very, very boring very, very quickly. But someone, you know, if you listen to Eddie Hazard freestyling, you know, you're in the presence of Jesus. You're absolutely in awe of them. You're like this. This guy's like a magician. That's why panel shows are so popular, because the speed and the quick wittedness is pure intelligence. Exactly. Exactly. And people aren't even really aware of it. You know, when we used to have those ads in the back of newspapers and things, it would always say gsoh for good sense of humor. Or I'm looking for someone who really likes the theater, or looking for someone who wants to go around museums with me. People aren't really aware how much they value intelligence because, well, this is assortative mating these days as well, where so many people find their partners. So this is why. So this is why it works. It's not why it exists. It would have. Would it have come into existence like everything else, as some. Once we sort of became conscious of comedy, conscious of humor, people who had it had a reproductive advantage over people who didn't. Exactly. As soon as something has value, like a peacock's tail, you know, once it. Once it's got value, then the biggest and the best peacock's tale is the one that's the most valuable because that will leave descendants which are likely to have a similarly magnificent peacock's tail, which will leave descendants and descendants and descendants. So, yes, things become sexually attractive because they're sexually attractive without having necessarily to have another value. But in this case, as I say, it does have a value because it's expressing native intelligence in a way that can't really be taught. Love it. Yeah. No, I love it. That's why it's valuable. That's a beautiful answer. Yes. Qualifications? I'm a novelist. I've spoken to you many times before, happily. But that doesn't qualify you to answer this question. No. I wrote a novel called genus, or genus, depending on how you pronounce it, which is about genetics, was very nearly turned into a film that collapsed at the last moment in the summer of 2016. Let it go. I blame Brexit, Jonathan, but then I blame it for most things. It'll come back around again. You'll enjoy. You'll enjoy Sebastian Fawkes's new one, I think. Ah, cool. Yes. I haven't had a chance about that period. No, he's looking at genetics. Quite, quite. From quite an interesting perspective. It's quite. It's a really 7th son, it's called. It's a really good book. So you stick that on your list. I will, yes, I will search. And everyone else can put genus by Jonathan Trigel on their list. Oh, brilliant. Thank you. You're a kind man as ever. I do my best. Well, I can't plug my book on this program as mercilessly as I do without allowing. That's two others, Lynne Featherstone and yourself today have also. And I plugged your book. You didn't plug it yourself. I love that answer, though, because it is that idea of. And also people who've had not had a lot of formal education, but who are naturally funny, are clever. And you know that they're clever because that's what the phrase quick witted means in many ways. Round of applause for Jonathan. Please do check out Jonathan's work as well. Jonathan Triggel is his professional name. Jeremy's in Cobham. Jeremy. Question or answer? Answer. Interrupting. I'm not saying I know the hundred percent, the history, but I think the question was wrong, because actually, originally people had nothing on their shirts at all and didn't have names. And it's different in different parts of the world. So, as you know, New Zealand, they call their centers five, eight centers. So what happened was that all blacks, like, always start these things. They decided to try and get their team better known to the public. So they actually started using the numbers system first. In other parts of the world, they used different things. So the Welsh were the ones who started using the names rather than the numbers. But actually the number eight was called a lock originally. Yes, because he locked the scrum. And in France, they don't even call them number eight. They still think they use the old term for funny, what it was. And then as the second row started to be called locks themselves, they couldn't call the number eight locks. It was called in Welsh. It was called the 8th man. Right. It was the 8th man to scrum, and that has now become number eight. I don't think they were called names before they were numbers. No, but the question still stands, as in, why have they got a number only a number, when everyone else has got a name now, they used to have a name. Yes, exactly. And it's evolved out of existence because, I mean, in a way, it probably suits the number eight. Locke suits the number eight better than it suits the locks, doesn't it? Exactly. It does, actually, yes, but there it is. And they're all the back row. Flankers are back row as well, aren't they, technically? Well, the back three, yes. You have six, seven and eight. And also, we don't know this, but in New Zealand, for instance, the six and the seven aren't the same roles as they are in the rest of the world. So the open side flanker for us is seven. Yeah, which is what I used to play. And the blind side is six. But in New Zealand, they wear the other wet shirts the way around. Probably the best position. Open sight flanker, isn't it? I thought so. Well, I used to play prop. But then I got injured too much, so I lost weight and became a flanker. It's the true high. I mean, every player these days is a hybrid, aren't they? Every player is a post lomu. You've got people in the scrum who are quicker than back rope, than backs would have been when I was a kid. And you've got people in the back line who look like props and run faster than anyone did. But back in the day, open side flanker was the first hybrid rugby player, I think. Yes, I think so. Love it. Qualifications? I'm just a massive rugby fan. That'll do. Round of applause for Jeremy. Who do you fancy for the World cup? Do you think it's a full gone. Conclusion? I'd love France to win it. I've got some french heritage and I'd like northern hemisphere team to win it. Yeah. I have a feeling South Africa will be there, but France would be my first choice. Really? I think Ireland would do a bit of. A. Bit of a second. 3rd, 4th, 5th gear. We shall see. France are looking powerful. 28 minutes after twelve is the time, but you'll be a brave man to bet against South Africa. That concludes this year's sports bulletin. That's it for 2023. Squeeze in, Holly. I've got some phone lines. Very crikey. That never happens on Thursdays. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need and the questions that currently still need answers involve. So we've done the rugby. I like the rugby answer. I've done the assassination answer. Why do women, menopausal women, have hot flushes? Why do we associate the chin with skepticism? That's it. We've answered the other three. I haven't written down the names of the answerers. I'll consult with Keith during the next news bulletin, which, conveniently enough, is here now. Amelia Cox has your headlines. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1233. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC Mystery. Hair continues. Let's crack straight on. Holly is in Worcester. Holly, question or answer is a question, please. James, Carrie Ann. I'd like to know whether using a handheld fan so, like, a spanish fan or a piece of card actually cools your body temperature down. So I think it does. I think if you fan it, like in your hot spots, like your neck, etcetera, it will cool your body temperature down. However, my husband thinks the kinetic energy used would the energy used in fanning yourself actually makes you hotter. Well, if it did, we wouldn't do it, would we? I know, but I think. Is it just a sensation of cooling yourself down at that time? But if you've got sweat on your skin, then the cool breeze will definitely work, because it will. It will draw the heat out from your skin. I think you're right. I think. I mean, it also moves the warmer air that's near your skin as well. So, yeah, it's got to work. He thinks that when you stop the act of fanning, you built up so much energy, you actually. I mean, how vigorous. Pardon for asking this, it's quite an intimate question, but how vigorously does he fan? Well, he doesn't because he thinks it will make it. Of course he doesn't because he thinks it's a waste of energy. But have you told him to try it on a slightly lower setting, as it were? Yeah, maybe. Don't mind. All right. So do fans work? Yes, handheld little fans. There's quite a lot on the London Underground at the moment, Holly, of people wearing. Carrying little electric ones. Yeah. So, yeah, I know. My assistant has got one of the ones that you wear around your neck. It's been so hot lately, you can see the sense of it. I was trying to sit next to them. Just second hand. Second hand breeze. Holly, you're on. Thank you. Do fans work? It doesn't need anything more complicated than that. Or does the fact that you're exercising essentially to wave it cancel out any cooling benefits that you might otherwise enjoy? I'm pretty sure they must work endemic many, many cultures. Glenn's in Pontefract. Glenn, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Okay. I was sat with misses other day. We were sat looking at some TikTok videos. Oh, yeah. And we. I saw a video of a bride and groom releasing a pair of doves. Oh, yeah. And one of these unfortunate doves just did a nose dive and it obviously held onto it a little bit too tight. My question a minute. What? Oh, that's why it was on tick tock. That's why it had gone viral. He killed the dove. I think it might just mean stunned. I like to think they were a stunned. I've got all their albums gone, so. So my question is. Yeah, obviously a wedding planner would have organized these doves to be released, but what happens with them when they're released? Where do they go? Where do they go? Are they just wild doves? Are they homing doves? Do they come back to wedding planet. Well, yeah, I like this question a lot. I mean, someone will know because there'll be someone listening who does it or who had it. Rinse these doves out or other bread specially. I mean, I think doves and pigeons are either different versions of the same business or very, very closely related. So you can train a bit better. Been quite a lot of fuss to go to, isn't it? Yeah, exactly. Yeah. But if you think about it, it's money for old rope and it. Once it's trained. Yeah, that's it. They release them. The cup, the comebacks at wedding planner, and he uses it again next week. Got no overhead. Depart from a bit of seed, a bit of seed, that's it. A bit of TLC. A bit of TLC, a bit of seed and a loft. It's all you need. A dove cut, a dove loft. Do you know, I don't think I've ever told anyone this before. At one point, I was one of the journalists most favored by the Beckhams. Glenn, back in the day, when I did the first interview with David after the Simeone incident in the World Cup, I don't know if you remember, he was public enemy number one. And they had the choice, viciously kicked him, didn't he? Yeah, give or take. I think he probably deserved it. But I did the. So I was very hard to get close to them, but I really liked them. I did the big interview with him and for some stupid reason, at their wedding, they released doves and I wrote a little article about how naff it was. Right? Yeah. And I got a phone call, like, literally that morning, before I'd even got into work, off that. Off that pr person, saying that I'd really, really, really upset Victoria. And I thought, well, of course I have, because I've taken the mickey out of her wedding. And that was it. That was the end of my brief. You don't make. I know you don't. You don't make an enemy out of the Beckers. But that's what I think of when I think of doves at weddings. It comes back like a. Like a haunting. And that was. That would be, what? 2020 odd years ago? Glenn, thank you, mate. I shall find out. Where do the doves go? Maybe Victoria will ring in, we can have a rapprochement and she can tell us where the doves went on her wedding day. 1238 is the time. I still feel bad about that. It was such a stupid thing to do. I was so desperate for bylines. Someone must have said in conference, does anyone want to write an article about how naphtha Beckham's wedding was? I didn't even think it was Nafta. Thought it was lovely. They had thrones and everything. And I said, oh, I'll do that, because I got my name in the paper the next day and I probably didn't have any stories, as usual, to give to the editor. So if you know them, would you pass on my apologies? Not likely that they remember, but I do still feel very bad about it. Thank you, mate. Tim's in Burnham. Tim, question or answer? It's a question, Jones. Carry on, Tim. Well, we've got the North Downs and the South Downs and the Epsom Downs and the Lambourne Downs and the ups and downs. And they're all ups. They're all high ground. Yes. So why are they called the Downs? Why are they called the Downs? Why are the Downs called the Downs? The Downs. When they're ups. When they're ups? It's a good question, isn't it? I mean, do we put. Would we have. Would we have grazed sheep on them once? Would we have doubt? Could it be something to do with that? I don't know. But why would you still call them the downs? I don't know. You're not letting this one go, are you? No, not really. Well, I've been thinking of it for a while, but. So what is a down exactly? Just. Just remind me. So you. It's like a high ground in it where they. Yeah. You know, they often use. Yeah, like Epson Downs, south Downs. Yeah. All right. Why are they called downs? When they're above? They're higher than sea level, obviously, but they're also higher than what we might loosely describe. Yeah. Higher than ground level. We might loosely describe it as or average. Why are. When they appear to be ups, why are they called downs? I like that question, mate. You're on. Thank you, Tim. I should do my best to get you an answer, Tim. And downs. And then the one before that was the doves. It's 1239. Suzanne is in Northwich. Suzanne, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It could be two answers if you let me. Only one, I'm afraid, madam. Oh, well, can I correct the humor one? Them's the rules. Whatever. You clear? Yeah. You can do the menopause one. Yeah. It's to do with estrogen and closing of the capillaries due to estrogen and endocrine systems. I mean, those at the moment are just words that you are saying. You now need you now you now need to join them together in an illuminating fashion. In an illuminating fashion. Okay. Your endocrine system puts out hormones. Yes. Which oestrogen is one of them? Right. And oestrogen closes your capillaries. Okay. And progesterone opens your capillaries. Right. So that's where you get the flushes. But why? Why does having closed capillaries lead to flushes? Because it closes and then it opens. Yeah, but how? Blood comes through. Ah. So the. So the capillaries go small, and then when they open up again wider, and you get flush through because the blood starts pumping through you at a greater rate. So it's regulation. Thermoregulation, then, is what we're talking about. I'm a person without thermal regulation. Are you internally ill? But, yeah. I don't have thermal regulation. No, you're not. Of course I am. Sorry. Of course I'm sorry. I'm not sorry enough to let you answer two questions. But I'm still sorry. It still counts. That's what happens. What are your qualifications? Like I said, she, I think. Producer. Yes, I'm a woman. Yeah, but so was the person who asked the question. Yeah, but I. How do you know who explained how did you look it? Did you look it up? Did someone tell you? Did you ask the doctor? Doctors. Doctor, doctors. No, I know what's happening. I answered your spiderweb question last week. I remember. And it was brilliant. But you didn't. You don't. You didn't know the words estrogen and progesterone when you were born, did you? So where did this information land inside? When did it come from? You learn it. I know where. Yes. University. Right. What did you study? I did science. I did. That's very broad. Yeah, very broad. It's a page turner, apparently. My dissertation, that was on spiders, wasn't it? Yeah, it was on. What's that got to do. What do you learn about hot flushes in a dissertation about spiders? Spiders? I don't know that. I can give you a round of applause. I don't even want a round of applause. I've not even got my bloody ball game yet. Did you win last week? Yeah. Are you sure? I think we might have a stewards inquiry. Suzanne, about that. Actually, Carrie. No, you. Excuse me. I'm not going to name them. Eleanor went on holiday and Elliot was supposed to pull me, but now I'd rather have a book. Thanks. I haven't read. I mean, it's not out until November the second. I'll have to speak to the publisher about giving those away. Can I actually live that long? Well, I don't know. Well, I mean, I can't get it published any quicker. I'll make some calls. I'll make some calls, Suzanne. I'll tell him it's a matter of life and death. No, but. No, we're being sarcastic with each other. I don't know, but you look after yourself. You know what I'm gonna give you? I'm gonna give you the round of applause. I don't want a ray. I know. You can't have a ray Liotta. I mean, unless you invented hot flushes, but you can have that. I'll give you that. I'll give you. We'll talk again, probably next week. You asked me where I know this. Yes, I know. I'm still waiting for you to tell me. Yeah, I am trying to, but you know what? You're talking over my. I'm flipping. No, you bloody well are. All right, I'll be quiet now. Finally. No. I've done so many different parts of my degree to be a teaching assistant. I was going to be a teacher, right? And I failed. And I've done science. I've done science all my life. We spoke five years ago when I was reading things for papers from China. I've got nothing else to do then just look at bloody science. You're absorbing it all and putting it to perfect use on Mistra on an almost weekly basis. It's only two weeks. Yeah, but that's two weeks weekly for weekly. For a fortnight, technically. You look after yourself, Suzanne. Stay safe. Yeah? All right. There you go. It's gone. It's just gone. Quarter to one mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1248 is the time. It works quite nicely, this. Chins, fans, doves and downs. Chins. It's like heads and tails, heads and tails, chins and fans, doves and downs, doves and downs. If you're just tuning in, this is actually LBC, a world beating current affairs station where we discuss in deep and pungent fashion the breaking stories of the moment. And sometimes they let people on who just sing meaningless ditties to themselves for no apparent reason. Jay's in south end. Jay, question or answer? It's an answer, mate. Carry on. It's the fans. Yes, the lady said about the cooling effect of fans, and if they work. So the principle is evaporative cooling. Now, obviously, when your body produces sweat, you blow the cold air onto you with the fan, it evaporates, thus cooling you down. The same principle inside of an air con machine or the other aircon units you probably got in your studio when you go into the office. Exactly the same principle is that instead of you're using the air in your hand as a fan, it's just using refrigerant gas going through a condenser and a radiator, which then blows cold air out into you. Yeah. So the issue where she wanted to know about was, does it produce any extra heat from your fan? Does waving the fan create so much heat that you end up hotter than you would be if you weren't waving? Yeah. Yeah. So the amount of the effect of the vaporative cooling upon your body just by the fan. Cooling with your fan, cooling the air with using the hand fan, it's so powerful, it overtakes any heat that's generated by you doing it. Of course it does. I mean, honestly, I don't know what Holly's husband's thinking of on this one. Because you think, thousands of years, isn't it, Jay, that people have been, you know, whether it's flamencos or, I think, Japan, and in the 19th century, there was a whole language of fans. Aristocratic women would communicate with each other, using fans in certain positions to convey little messages across the dance floor. So the idea that they were all wasting their time because secretly getting hotter every time they waved it, I don't know why he was. I mean, for heaven's sake. Qualifications? Used to be an air conditioning engineer. I'll do nicely. Have a round of applause. Thank you very much, mate. I'll play Jake. Thank you, mate. Very kind. Likewise. Likewise. Big fan. You didn't realize you did it, then? Keith spotted that. Not me. For credit. Where it's due. Ten to one is the time. Susan, Bristol. Sue, question or answer? It's an answer, Jane. Carry on, sue. Well, you know, it's an answer to the Downs question. Why are Downs called downs when they're hills? And it's simply because the word has become a corruption over probably thousands of years. Right. So, of course, as we know Britain, you know, it had migration, the Romans, the angles. The sooner we get them all. So send them all back where they came from, I say. And then each time new immigration arrived, they would tack on how they would describe a region geographically. Another example would be Cambridge. So that's the bridge over the river cam, because there were no maps. So the only people knew. The only way people knew who were traveling around where they were was by the look of the landscape. So, for example, birch hanger, a village I think on the border of Essex and Hertfordshire, a hangar meant a very gentle slope down to a brook. Oh, how lovely. Birch are birch trees. Yes. So when you came and saw that vista in front of you, as you're traveling probably between London and Cambridge, there's a hangar with some birches. I must be in barchanger. Exactly. Which is now, of course, famed for its motorway service station suit. I've been there many times. I like that. So what is downs a corruption of, then? Well, it's a corruption of the old english word dune. D U N. And Dune became Hill. And that is still in our language as a sand dune. Exactly. Well, I never. So. Yes, absolutely. So they're all, you know, over the thousands of years, as language has changed, accents have changed thousands. On this, it'd just be a couple of thousand, I think, tops on this one. It was probably called a done in anglo saxon times, wasn't it? I'd have thought, yes, yes. But maps, you know, didn't exist for the common person. So the only way they knew where they were when they were traveling around was by topographically viewing the landscape. And that's how these names have come about and changed over time as well. What are your qualifications? How do you know all this? Well, about 30 years ago, I went to a summer school at Colchester University, a six week summer school, and it was all about english place names. And I found it absolutely fascinating. And I cannot quite remember the name of the tutor, but I think her name was Doctor Margaret Rawl, and she published a book all about this. And it was just fast. I found it fascinating. It is fascinating. I find it fascinating as well. I'd love to go to something like that. I mean, some of them are obvious, aren't they? Like Brent. Brent Ford. The ford over the river Brent. And cheese wick is quite interesting because Chiswick is cheese wick. It was a. It was a town, little village on the side of the Thames, famous for its cheese. So cheese wick. And wick is another little word for town or village, isn't it? A small village is a wick. I don't know about that, because I remember being taught that wick may be an old name that the Romans had for a dairy farm. Okay, well, that fits with the cheese. Yeah. So it would just be the cheese farm, then. It would be where you go to get your cheese. It's got nothing to do with villages. And they felt, they thought that the Romans may have crossed the Thames for the first time at Brentford and that they might have some link back to that. Some sort of. Yes. I'm not faking it, sue, when I tell you I'm interested in this stuff, I'm just proving Fords is also a roman word for a very, you know, for a brook that runs across the road and it can be flooded at times, so it's almost like a warning. Yes, of course. Well, that is. Tell you what, go on. Can. Ok, carry on bringing it forward. We've got Bridgetown in Barbados. Yes. And it's believed that that came from. The name came from Bristol. Well, I know. So originally it was Bristol and eventually it became Bridgetown. And of course, that's the connection with the transatlantic slave trade. Covered a lot of ground there, sue. So it's still happening today. I love it. Round of applause for sue in Bristol, which is where she called from, which is why it was such a lovely symmetry to the. To the whole content of that call. 1255 is the time. So we can cross off fans. We can cross off downs. It's just chins and doves, is it? Chins and doves. Gins and doves. Doves and chins? No. All right. Should try and get Derek Griffiths on. Full disclosure, John's an East Horsley. John, question or answer? Oh, I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on, John. I never, ever get over the information that is called in on these programs. It's fascinating. So listen to it for a long time. Rather a poignant reason for me bringing in my lovely wife. Pam died seven years ago. Sadly, she didn't intend to. I'm sure you realize that. And my daughter and I gave her the most magnificent send off, including the release of two white doves. And I said to the chat that brought them, where do they go? Because we. We release one each. Lauren, my daughter and I will release one each. Yes. And they did a circuit of the crematorium in perfect, you know, flight control. Right. And then headed off to where they came from, which was Essex. Really? So they were homing ahead. Yes. And I said to him, well, you know what happens? He said, well, they're homing doves. Well, I never. So I don't like to say my qualifications are being bereaved. Well, they are. No. Being curious. Being curious. Exactly. And actually, now that you've said it, and I'm sure Glenn who asked the question would agree, it kind of had to be the answer, didn't it? I guess so. And in fact, a friend of mine who's just remember my wife's funeral as being spectacular, only asked me yesterday where to get the doves I just recommended. Well, not that I'm a duff expert, you understand. Oh, you are. You are now, Josh. Of course. I can't wait for the ripple of applause. You are now. And here it is. Okay, mate. I love it. More pouch robo. It's a fabulous program. Thank you. You're very kind. Take care, mate. Thank you. Okay, and what he said there about the amazing amounts of information you accrue is proved by India, who's just texted, because you'll remember that the. What's the lovely lady who was telling us about the anglo saxon place name. So I didn't write down her name. Sue. She mentioned Margaret rule as the person who. From whom she'd learned all about place names. And India's been in touch. Oh, I finally know why my University halls of residence were called Margaret rule Hall at Portsmouth University. So it's just knowledge, man. The knowledge that unfolds during this hour is off the flipping charts. Matthew's in Croydon to wrap things up. Matthew. It's got to be doves, mate. No, it's chinny chins. Chins, not doves. We've just done doves. It's got to be cheek and tell. It's nearly home time. It's chins. Well, quick, make it quick. Sheila's here. I will, I will. So the question answer, Oscar, was not far off with toot and carmoon. As far as I know it, the female pharaohs used to don a fake beard to appear more masculine and therefore more godlike. Right. And that became synonymous with a fib or a fake. So people in that society used to stroke their chins when they were skeptical of what people were saying. And now it's gone worldwide. I believe so, yeah. So that's a little bit iffy there. What are your qualifications? Well, I do have a fascination with ancient cultures. I'd like to say that. Something I read or saw in a documentary, but I believe I heard it on eight out of ten cats via the great Susie dent. Oh, you can't do that. You can't. No, you. Susie dent's like playing a joker and it's a knockout. I can't. I can't argue with you. Now you've said Susie Dent. That's it. That's qualification. Qualification. That's. That's what I believe. That's where I believe. I heard it. That's fine. I may have heard it somewhere else. No, you've heard it. You've said it now. That's it. Completely, completely kosher. A massive round of applause for Matthew, please, on that one. Cleared the board this week, which is nice. And I think the box game, the game goes to sue. Does it? Doesn't it? With the question about the downs and the duns, and she brought slavery into it, and Bristol and Chiswick and you name it, it was all a birchanger. Birchanger. Hey. So, mystery out, ball game to sue. If you think you should have won it and you enter, that's fine, you can go and buy your own at mysteryoud dot co dot uk dot. That's it. It from me for another day. We'll be doing it again tomorrow morning from ten. Susie dent's coming on. Full disclosure soon. Actually, I've just remembered, if you missed any of today's show, you know what to do by now. Here's Sheila Fogarty.