Why don't dolphins get the bends?- 5 Nov 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 Tweet LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to mystery Hour on LBC. As the man with the deep voice just told you, the way this works is relatively straightforward, but you'll indulge me for a moment and allow me to explain. You've probably got something bubbling away in the back of your brain that needs fixing. This isn't a medical exercise. This is an exercise in intellectual enlightenment or possibly silly stuff. Both usually get fairly well represented. In the course of this hour, you ring in with the question, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's that all about? When, why, where, whither, wherefore, whence? Any interrogative pronoun you like? Actually, I don't think we've ever had a wither straight to the front of the queue. If you've got a wither and someone else listening to the same program will hear your question and go, oh, my light bulbs just come on. I know the answer. And if that person is you ring in with the answer. And that is pretty much it. Simple though it sounds, it's often the simplest things that provide the most pleasure. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you've got a question, then I want to hear it. Hit the numbers now. You will get through. You'll only hear me say the number when I've actually got phone lines free. It's generally the busiest hour of the week, although the way things have been going on the program lately, I'm not even sure that's statistically true anymore. A lot of the other hours that we do seem to melt the switchboard almost as much as mystery hour routinely does. But you have to have qualifications, okay? You have to have qualifications to get the answer right. They don't have to be on a certificate or anything like that. You don't have to have an ology, but you do have to tell me how you know what you know. You could have watched it on tv last night. Or you could be, like, one of the most popular contributors to mystery hour over the years. You could be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. I've got a new producer working on the program today, so I need to remind him, and indeed you, of the two criteria for not getting your question on the board. One, is repetition, which is going to have to fall to me pretty much today, and the other is dullness. So I'm glancing at one question on the board about a bloke who travels on the 148 bus from Marble Arch, and I'm thinking, that's almost definitely dull. There's only one way to find out. Paul's in Holland Park. Paul, what's your question? Hello. Thanks for taking it. It might sound dull, but it's something that's been nagging at me for years. If you're on the top deck of the 148 bus, travelling from marble arch towards west, that is, past Lancaster gate, your bus will travel on the side that Hyde park is. Now, Paul, I have to remind you of why the dullness rule is in place. The dullness rule very simply says, will the answer to this question be of interest to the majority of the 648,000 people listening to this programme across the nation? It should be, because on the side by high park. That was a rhetorical question, Paul. I shall answer the rhetorical question. Yeah, go on. There. Right. On the side where Hyde park is, near Lancaster Gate, there is a very small plot of land which you. And if you look over it from the top deck, there are hundreds of gravestones. Yes, hundreds of little gravestones. How little? They're about the size. I'd say they're about foot. Less than a foot high. Near the barrow. Very up. Hundreds of them. And I've never been able to find out from anyone. Can you go? Right. Can you give me a better geographical location than the 148 bus? Top deck. Go on, then. Bayswater Road. Yes. Traveling west, westbound. Yes. And the north carriage road, which is inside Hyde park. Is it the Corgi graveyard? I don't know what it is. All right, now, you put me in a very difficult situation because you've asked the question now, so I will leave it on the board. But I'm also going to use you, as if I may, as a poster boy, for questions that are probably too dull to ordinarily be included. Does that. Does that sound fair? Please do. It's almost certainly a pet cemetery, isn't it? Why would they put pets there? Well, we've got to put them somewhere. Well, the queen must have an awful lot of corgis. We're not just the queens. Well, why don't we find out, James? Well, we will. But I also want you to give me your permission to use this as an example of the sort of questions that are too dull to get on mystery hour. I'm more than happy to. Thank you, Paul. There you go. Everyone's a winner, including Joe in Richmond. I have to tell you, the painter and decorator that we spoke to in the last hour, who was on struggle street, so we thought we'd give him a free advert. I think we've just crashed his website. So do get back to that website. If you follow me on twitter, you can find all the links you need. Is the name you need eight minutes after twelve. What's that thing on that thing that he can see from that bus when he does that thing to that place? All right, that's question number one. This week, Hannah's in inner London with question number two. Hannah, what have you got? Hey, James, how are you? Very well indeed. We were just wondering, in work, a couple of the girls just got married and they've booked their honeymoons. Yes, but why is it actually called a honeymoon? Oh, I know this because you would get off work after getting married a whole lunar cycle. Yeah. And one of the presents you got to be honey. So that's like the honeymoon. I'm not sounding persuade you? No, you're entitled not to. Believe me. I'm going to try again with a slightly more plausible voice. Okay. Okay. Ready? If you were to go back to pre norman times, Hannah, then the exemption from work that the husband. Because, of course, none of the women worked, but the groom would receive an exemption from work if he had an employer that would last for the duration of an entire lunar cycle. And because honey, as you probably know, honey is the only foodstuff known to man that doesn't decay. It has historically been a great sign of longevity and commitment. So you would give honey to a newly married couple because it never, ever rots. Did you know that? No, I didn't know. It's true. They found something. Tutankhamun's tomb, that was still edible. So honey never rots. Even water stagnates. And the break from work that you would get as a couple to sort of build because you wouldn't go away. You'd be getting your house ready. You might even have to finish building it if you go back far enough, eat the honey. Ergo, honeymoon. So it's about going away is about basically or not going away, but how much time off work you got and the fact that honey never rots. Okay, all right. I'll let you have that then. Get in. There it is. Thank you very much. In fact, can I get one from you and the girls at work as well? Yeah, we're all listening. You unspeakable phone. Carry on. Thank you very much, ladies. It is now ten minutes after twelve. Mystery act continues. There you have the two extremes. A brilliant question with a really interesting answer from Hannah and me and Paul's question. The other. Oh, hang on, is Rosh Ham's in Kings Cross. Rosh Ham, what have you got? Yeah. Hi, James, a London taxi driver, you'd be happy to know I'm not going to turn Mystery Ann to Uber debate the answer to the initial question. The question about the cemetery is indeed a dog cemetery. It's one of the questions we get asked on the knowledge. I don't know. I'm not going to give you a long winded answer about the history because I don't know it. But that is a dog cemetery. There's no two ways about it. So the little gravestones that I'm hearing, police dogs, I think it's something to do with royalty. Something in my brain says something to do with, you know, one of the kings that we used to have. Yeah. Put his dog there, George III. I bet it was George the third, probably. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That is definitely the answer. It's a pet sematary. I've got a little bit more information. Keep talking because I'm just going to pull it up on the screen while it's there. The pet sematary of Hyde park. And yet, you're right, it's about 300 graves there. It was started in eight. It all began by accident. The lodge keeper, a mister Winbridge, in 1881, let someone bury a pet there. And now it's got nothing to do with the royal family. It doesn't matter. You got. And that's in the knowledge. Why is that in the knowledge? You can't get dropped off there. That's it. No, you can't get dropped off there. But it's an interesting, quirky little fact about London. The innkeeper that lives. There's a little building there, tiny little building, the exit to Hyde park there. Someone lives there. And if you knock on the door, they will gladly show you around their little garden there with the gravestones. That's absolutely lovely. And you write, you write about the royal connection as well, actually. Poor prince belonged to the actress Louisa Fairbrother, who was the wife of Prince George, Duke of Cambridge, and lived at number six Queen Street, Mayfair. Her dog's buried there as well. And it all began by accident. There you go. And it's people who walk their dogs there, obviously, who want to bury the dogs there as well. Yeah. Right. Okay, hang on, hang on, hang on. I know you've got work to do. Briefly. Do you think actually. Now your answers come in. That's actually a lot more interesting than the question. Do you think I was a bit unfair to Paul? Possibly because not everyone would necessarily know that. And it is quite interesting. It's a bit of a mystery why those lipos? It was just because he started off with the bus route. I think that was the thing. It was the intro, wasn't it? That lenders. So I'm going to give Paul an apology. An apology for Paul and a round of applause for Roshan. For the record, though, I'm well up for a debate about Uber. But just not every single day. A story yesterday about a member of management apparently seeking to punish a driver who wanted to start a union. So it sums up a lot of the themes of conversation we have on a regular basis on this program. Paul is in Brentford. Question or answer, Paul? Question. Go on. It's a good follow up to that last one. Yeah, I'll be the judge of that, pal. Do dogs have the same blood as humans? No. Right. Round of applause for me. That was easy. If not, do they have different subgroups? So. So in other words, could you get a transfusion off a dog? Not necessarily, no. If we've got. If our blood is the same as a dog's blood, then theoretically you would be able to get. Yeah, if it is. But if it isn't, well, that's a no. So we know it isn't. We know it isn't. Does it have different group? The answer that is yes. Okay. How do I know? I don't want to know how I know. No, you know everything. Well, there is that. Of course, he's always part sarcasm, mate. It's the lowest form of wit, the way I know. I think we've done it before. And you occasionally get appeals for blood banks for doggy, but for pet based blood banks. Because if you're operating on a dog. Our cat had a hernia that took a six or seven hour operation. That's why I no longer take the mickey out of people who pay a fortune to have their pets cured by vets. And your operation like that, arguably, you're going to need some form of blood product. You're going to need some form of blood. And they often make appeals for certain types of blood. And that is how I know the answer to your question. Right. We have to do blood tests on our dog. That's why I wondered. Well, that's. That's why you have to do blood tests on your dog, you prune. No, she's diabetic. Oh, I see. Right. Yeah. Well, no, you can't. You can't top her up with your own blood. It's 12:15 round of applause for me. Alex is in Romford. Question or answer, Alex. It's a question, please. Yes, good morning, I thought. I think it's an acceptable question. The symbol, where does it come from? Why that symbol in particular? We use it every day. There must have been a point when we transferred over from typewriter to keyboards that it was added as a necessity, but, yeah. Why that symbol in particular? And we never. I mean, we didn't really notice it much, did we, until Twitter and some other social media. It's a beautiful symbol when you think about it. Really pretty. Yeah. Just wonder why the a in the c shape. Yeah, I like it. Origins of that. And, in fact, you've reminded me of the other rule of misreal, which I've neglected to mention, which is that you are not allowed, obviously, to google anything or look anything up in search of an answer. And the reason for that is really simple. It might sound a little bit pompous, but I'm sticking with it. The nature of the exercise is to celebrate illumination and elucidation. Right. So the idea is that you're listening to the radio, you hear something that you know and you know it because of the life you've led, whether it's the television program you've watched or the university course that you did, or the fact, like Rosham, proved rather beautifully, you've done the knowledge. So you know the answer to the question that Paul asked. It's gone down very, very well, that answer. It's made me realize I was probably a little bit unfair in my treatment of the questioner. Nevertheless, it was. It was quite amusing. So that's the point. You're not allowed to google anything. Look it up. If you don't know it off the top of your head, you're not allowed to join in. It's 1216, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 20 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. We're looking for answers to a couple of questions and we've got room for more questions as well. The number you need, if you have either, is zero 345-606-0973 Jimmy's on the Isle of Dogs. Question or answer, Jimmy? It's a question. James. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to you, sir. Bring it on. Why is it when there's a important event like a premier showing or things like that, they roll out the red carpet. What's so significant about the red. Why red carpet? Well, we must have done that before. Sounds like the sort of thing we should know, doesn't it? It should be. I. I think it's because of the cost of red dye, historically. Same reason that the Romans were purple. It was the most expensive die. So you're showing off how rich you are. Is that the answer? What? You tell me. No, you tell me. No, you tell me. I mean, are you going to buy it? All right. This caveat emptor, mate, I'm selling. Are you buying? Not really. Fair enough. I've got no qualifications either, although I do come from Kidderminster, which used to be the carpet capital of the free world. I thought X minster was. It's good. 21 minutes after twelve. Why red carpets? Um. What are the other questions? I've forgotten to write them down. I shouldn't say that out loud. I'm such an amateur. Tim's in Wimbledon. Tim Questioner. Oh, the at symbol. What's the origin of the at symbol? Yeah. Is there a name for it? Is it got. It's not. It's like the ampersand is the name of the eight that uses. It's just an at symbol. Well, we'll find out what's the origin of that. And why do we have red carpets? Red carpet functions? Well, Joe's. Because if you didn't have a red carpet, it wouldn't be a red carpet. Yeah, you know what I mean. Chicken and egg. Tim's in Wimbledon. Tim. Question or answer, James? I'm still off now. I think they made them in kitamins. I could be gone. Very average show today, James. Let me know, let me lower it even further. Bruce. In Australia, the first caller of the week called it the best radio show in the world. I'm so glad you're here late on in the week to just bring a bit of balance to the table. It's yin and yang, James. Yin and yang. Indeed it is, yeah. James. Sunday lunch. We all have Sunday lunch, and on Monday I've done. My daughter's coming from school. She said, bubba, what's the. What's for dinner? I said, bubble and squeak. Yes. Why do you keep calling it bubble and squeak? I said, because it's bubbling squeak, isn't it? So she wants to know, please, where does the term bubble and squeak come from? Well, is it because that's the effect that it has with the digestive system after. No, it's not. But you're close. What noise does it make when you cook it? Yes, it does. Mine doesn't. Well, you're cooking it wrong. You're cooking it wrong. Okay, what's the original recipe, then? Maybe that would be a clue. It's potatoes and cabbage and maybe a bit of bacon if you're rich. Yeah, bubble and squeak. It bubbles and squeaks when you cook it. It really is that simple. No, it really does. Well, what else could it be? Now, don't turn that tone with me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I've got a long day today. Yeah, okay. Okay. I would take that, but maybe. Maybe some sort of confirmation would be nice. See, by adopting that diplomatic tone, you've got under my irritable armor. And given. And also I've been helping myself to rounds of applause quite liberally already today. Very liberally. Very liberally. Yeah, you're right. Okay, so I blew it with Paul. You might be right, but I think I almost certainly am. But given that you've so diplomatically sought some sort of expert endorsement, I'm going to leave it on the board and seek that expert endorsement for you. Does your daughter like it? Does she eat it? She loves it. Yeah, because I struggle to get mine to eat leftovers. But I think bubble and squeak might be the way forward. You what? Take the squeak out. Too much cabbage. All bubble, no squeak. Got all their albums. It's 24 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Get Tim an answer to his question. Why is bubble and squeak called bubble and squeak? I don't know how you'd make yourself qualified to answer that in a way that I'm not, but have a go anyway. Steve's in the strand. Steve, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on, Steve. The at symbol. Oh, yeah, it's actually. It used to work. Its correct term is commercial a. It's a commercial a. And it was used in the printing industry when producing ledgers. So, in other words, if you had five scarves at a pound, you put your itemized, you put five scarves and then you put the commercial a. Then you put one pound and then you'd go across with the leaders and you'd see the total of five pounds. So its correct term is a commercial a. I've got some reports coming in that track it back to the 16th or 17th century. Well, I can only tell you that as a hot metal compositor and proofreader, that was always the term. I knew it by. That's what it's called. But where did it come from, was the question. Well, I'm going to give you half a round of applause for being clever. Oh, what happened? That was only supposed to be half. Actually. You just gave him a hold, mate. Steve, you owe me half a round of applause, mate. Can I have it back? You owe me half. Last time I answered the lowercase I question as to why we use a lowercase, I uniquely. And I answered that because it would basically snap off when a printing machine was going over. It wouldn't be sufficiently strong enough. Yeah, and I gave you your round of applause for that. It gave me half. Why? Well, I don't know. You tell me. Oh, all right. So now you've got one and a half. So I've got one and a half. But I should have had one. No, you've got one. You should have had a whole one last time. And a half one this time. But last time you got a half one and this time you got a whole one. So we're quits. There's one and a half at one, which equals one and a half. I'm leaving it on the board. You've had your fun. Because I want to know where it comes from. Emma suggests it's an old monkish shorthand symbol used in book copy. I'll make an exception for her because she's one of my favorite tweeters. But normally you have to be online to give the answer. I want more detail on that. But, Steve, you get that? So with one and a half, does he still owe me half? No, I'll let him keep that. So keep it on tick, mate. Kerry's in Mason. Kerry, question or answer? I have a question. I would like to know why dolphins don't get the bends. Because they obviously dive down pretty deeply and they surface to breathe. So why don't they get the bends like divers do? I mean, obviously because they're made differently. But you're looking for a slightly more sophisticated answer than that. Yep. Why would you expect them to get the bends? And, I mean, not all. Why are you asking about dolphins and not all sort of marine life? Well, like. Yeah, whales, fish, I suppose they wouldn't get whales. Fish don't breathe oxygen, do they? They breathe water. All right, clever. Clogs, seahorses, mollusks. Yeah. So I'm just. Yeah, I've been diving, so I'm. Yeah, I didn't get the bends, but, um. Yeah, okay. No, okay. I like that as well. It'd be something to do with the physiognomy when it. Of the, um. Of the other. Of the. Of the dolphins. A dolphin, a mammal. It is, isn't it? That's the point of this, isn't it? That's the whole point of this question. Yeah, you're on. All right. Sorry, I'm just a bit distracted by all that bubble and squeak. It's 27 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. This is mystery hour. I want to know the origin of the. Of the commercial at the sign that everyone on Twitter uses at the front of their name. The story of why the bloke who invented Twitter chose that is quite charming, but that's not what we're looking for. I'll share that with you if you're very good. Why do we use red carpets at posh functions? Why is bubble and squeak called bubble and squeak? And why don't dolphins get the bends? Sean is in Bishop Stalford. Sean, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question, please. It's. Right. How do you get champagne corks into a bowl? You still there? Yeah, I am. I've been reading a lot about champagne lately because I've been worried that my champagne socialist credentials are looking a bit rusty around the edges. And there's two processes involved, oddly. And at the end of the process, they reopen the bottle, pour some out, put some stuff in and put the cork back on. So I think the pressure builds up inside the bottle after it's been corked. So you would just be able to shove it in? Well, that's. That's what I thought. But then how would you shove it in? Because it pops out at quite a rate. Well, that's what you use the cage for. What? The cage over the top of the core? Yeah. Or I've had some prosecco from Italy recently that's got a lovely piece of string. Looks ever so cool. It's got string holding the cork in place. Yeah, well, I had some carving yesterday because it was my girlfriend's birthday. Oh, congratulations to her. Thank you. And when I pop the cork. And by the way, if you're still not allowed to phone me, a mystery out. No, quite right, too. But how. I don't understand how the pressure. How you could actually put it in. All right, I'll leave it on the board. But can I tell you the most interesting thing I learned about champagne during my studies? Go for it. It's made with three grapes, which you probably knew already, two of which are actually red. Yeah, well, red grapes are funny enough. Not champagne. What? It's Carver. No, no, I know, but red grape. There's two red grapes in your champagne recipe. You've got your chardonnay, but then the two red grapes, which have to be trodden very, very gently so that you don't release any of the red dyes from the. From the skin. The actual flesh of the grape is not red. Well, I thought it was interesting. You ruined that for me. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer that question, or indeed any others. Time now is 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 33 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien. And mystery hour continues. How do they get the corks in champagne bottles? I sort of. No, but I didn't really explain it very well. Why don't dolphins get the bends? Why is bubble and squeak called bubble and squeak? I definitely know, but the questioner wouldn't accept my answer. So we need someone who's got qualifications. Although what the hell they would look like, God only knows. And why do red carpets get used at fancy pants occasion? So 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those, Professor Hal is here. Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. I'm going to guess you're going either for champagne corks or dolphins. Good afternoon, James. There is a stunning juxtaposition between both questions and the answer will suit them both. No way. No way. But I will technically answer the no way every way. Okay, so the reason you get the bends is as follows. As you go down deeper in the water, the pressure around you increases and the solubility of nitrogen, which is the gas you're partly breathing, increases, so it dissolves in your blood plasma. And the deeper down you go, the more nitrogen dissolves. If you come up too quickly, it undissolves in exactly the same way as when you take the top off a champagne bottle or unscrew a cola bottle. All the nitrogen in your bloodstream just appears. It comes out of solution, whether it's in your brain, in your heart, in your joints, and that's what causes the damages of the bends. Now, because you're breathing all the time, every time you take a breath, more and more nitrogen dissolves as you go deeper. But dolphins don't do that. They hold their breath. They've got one breath's worth of nitrogen dissolving in their plasma, and therefore they can go up and down as they please because they don't get the bends for that reason. Love it. Qualifications? Bsc, PhD, MBA, seachem, Frsc and a GCSE, grade four. And woodwork. Stay there because there's a name for it, apparently. Is there? Name for what? The law that you've just described. I think it's not Graham's law of effusion. There is a law. Off the top of my head, I'd say it's Charles's law. No, Charles's law says the volume and volume and the temperature of the gas up, and that's what happens. All right, then, just take your round of applause. This guy just won mystery hour, says Ellen. I think she must be a relatively new listener. He does that all the time. Professor Howe. Twelve. That's why he's the patron saint of mystery hour. 1236 is the time. One phone line free, remember, as I bid farewell to Professor Howe, we still need to know about the champagne corks. So they hold their breath, is the answer to the question. The dolphins hold their breath, but they're not breathing in the way that. So a free diver wouldn't get the pens either. A human freediver. We still need to know about bubble and squeak, red carpets and champagne corks. I've had one answer by email from Angela on the red carpets, but if that's true, I'll be staggered. Jonathan's in Guildford. Jonathan, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. And that is the sign. Oh, yeah. It stems from a misunderstanding of the word at. It doesn't mean the sort of position of a website or a person online, whatever. It's in the sense of each. And it was used. When you get a perm, you buy five pounds of apple. No, no, no. I thought I said this is my fault, not yours. But we know all that. Oh, you know, where did it come from? What's the origin of it? Leap straight to the chase, then. Yeah, if you will. It comes from Latin. Itat means each. And it was presumably. I don't actually know for sure, but I presume it probably not monks, but accountants. Yeah, with quill pens, it's bloody difficult to write and you just make abbreviations like the ampersand. So originally it would mean each at. So it would be each not at in the sense of a place. I like that. And that would. So it would date back to when we first started writing. And so that's why. That's why Emma said it's probably. Well, Emma did say it's monkish because it would have been. Monks were the first people to write, would use it. But, you know, whoever qualifications. Well, I did Latin at school, but I think I just picked that up because I was a magpie for this information. Carry on. Round of applause for Jonathan. Thank you. No, thank you. Just coming out to 1238. Get some more questions on the board, actually, but we're still after the champagne corks, the bubble and squeak and the red carpets, aren't we? Aren't we? Yes, we are. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Dean's in Hastings. Dean. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on, mate. Yeah, I was wondering about the origins of the jukebox. What is a juke and why is it called a jukebox? Oh, I hate it when people do this, you know. Oh, you know, you've got something, you've got it somewhere and you know you're not going to be able to drag it up into. No, it's funny one that you'd think people would know that, wouldn't you? You've given it some thought before. When did it occur to you that you didn't know? It was just looking at jukeboxes one day and I thought, well, why is it called a jukebox? Jukebox? Yeah. And what is a juke? Do you know, I always thought, because I've got a man cave now, I've got a sort of thing at the bottom of the garden that's got a telly in it and everything. I always thought when I'd reached this stage of life, I'd have a couple of pinball machines, a jukebox and a sit down. Space invaders. But I haven't got any of them. It's a must on the welsh, I suppose. I'm still young, Dean. That's what you could have said. 1239 is the time. Why is it called a jukebox? I like that question. Tony's in Muswell Hill. Question or answer? Tony. I have an answer and a correction. Oh, there we go. Go on, then. It's why the red carpet is red. Yes. Well, the color purple is actually red was originally red. It came from crushing Murak shells, but the Phoenicians did it and it was called the colour of kings. Yes. And the Romans wore. When they said they wore purple, it was actually red. And that's why the pope wears red shoes and red socks and red socks, because actually purple he's wearing. Yes. So purple is like an adjective rather than an actual color. It's like the Robin thing about Robin is orange. Because they can have a word for orange. I got it from you. Yes. Yeah. So. So purple is red. The original purple was. Stay on the line. I think you've got. Think you're good for a round of applause, but Lara's got something to add. Laura, what have you got? I answered this question a year ago. Yeah. I've got a new producer today. Don't embarrass him. Honestly. Poor old Chris. He got big duck in the last hour for writing a great article in the independent yesterday. And now you're pointing out that he's let an old one through. How is he supposed to know that? All right, yeah. I mean, your previous. Actually, no, let's not. Let's not. Let's just reflect on the. On how full your life is. What did you do today? I rang another radio station with the same answer to the same question that I rang in with a year ago. Okay. You should really stay in more, Lara. I'm not in. Go on, then. Well, yeah, your first call. I was totally right. It's. In ancient times, purple was the color of gods and everyone special. The first mention was the Agamemnon. Yes. Which is a greek tragedy. And. Yeah. So Kutta Mnesra was preparing his arrival. And I remember your call. Yeah. Because I was slightly intimidated by your intellect. Oh, really? But the reason is that. Yeah, purple as a qualification associated five years of ancient greek secondary school. Five years, actually. Start studying the language or studying the culture. I probably asked you this last time based. Really? Yeah. Fine. Um. Can I give all of the round of applause to Tony? Because you've already got one for answering this. Are you sure, Tony? How about that? That's good. And. And also, the Phoenicians mentioned it before the Greeks, because when the Greeks invaded. Yeah, but she didn't study that at secondary school, mate. Let it go. Come on. She just said, you can have a round of applause and you're splitting hairs, Lara. Should we do it again twelve months from now? Keep it, keep it. Keep the date clear. Keep the date clear. Tony, this is for you. Time is 1241. So, we've done the red carpet. Just the bubble and squeak, the champagne corks and the jukebox, and, of course, any questions you've got. For example, John in whopping. Question or answer? John? Question. James. Carry on. Yeah, I was watching a nature program last week. Which one? National. All right. Because the new Attenborough one was brilliant. All right. I didn't. I didn't actually see that one. I more likely have recorded it. Or sky news. Fair play. Well, don't miss it. It's first classical hunters or something like that. Anyway, it's really good. Really, really good. Yeah, I'll watch that on this program about mountain lions and their litter. When they have litter, they're called kittens. No, they. It's a cat. Yeah. And when a tiger has a litter, it'll call cubs. When a lion has a litter, they're called lion. I love you, mate, but a man, it's just not right. So you're sitting there watching it. You're sitting there watching it and you go, aye, aye, aye, aye, aye, aye. Why are they called kittens when lions and tie? Mountain lion is smaller than a big. Than a. Than a lion lion, isn't it? Yes, I think that's probably. They're all cat family and bear cubs. Yeah, that's not really relevant to anything. I just thought I'd say bear cubs. No, no, no, that's not. I don't know where you got with that one. No, nor do I. So why are mountain lions babies called kittens and not cubs? Yeah. Right. I'm going to go out on a limb and say, if you get an answer to this before 01:00 I'll give you the money myself. All right, James, thank you very much. We should do our best. We shall do our best. Lion. What was it? What are they? Mountain lions? Kittens? Why not cubs? Zero. 345-606-0973 it was really good, that Attenborough thing. Tell you what else is brilliant, it was on last night. Have you seen it? Cuffs? The new. The new police drama. I'm saying that it's brilliant for two reasons. Number one, it is, and number two, one of the main stars of it, Amanda Abington, keeps saying amazingly complimentary and kind things about this program on Twitter. So I'm repaying the compliment now by saying that her new show is absolutely brilliant. You know her, she's in Mister Selfridge and Sherlock and all sorts of things, but she plays slightly against type in that she's glammed down and delivers a performance absolutely magnificent, in my humble opinion. Damien's in godwarming. Damien, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Yes. It's an answer to the question about champagne. Oh, yes. How the cork is put in. It's a two stage process in the production of champagne that was. Hang on, do you need to. Do you want to get that? No, no, no, there's not my castle. Oh, all right, fine. Carry on, then. Stops. You mean there's a robbery going on behind you and you're just talking casually on the phone to a radio stage? I love it. It's modern Britain. You carry on. Fingers. I'm on mystery hour. God arming. There's no climb. Absolutely. So it says two stage process that was developed by Madame Ticot. And it's all not Dom Perignon? Not Dom Perignon, no, Madame Ticot. And it was all to do with how the bubbles are put into champagne and the sediment is taken out. So when the. When wine is being produced, the fermentation process produces carbon dioxide. In the normal procedure of producing wine that is released when champagne is being produced, the champagne is fermented in the bottle, but it's capped initially, so there's no cork in it, it's just capped. And because the CTO has CO2, has nowhere to go, it creates a bubble. Yes, but there's also sediment. So what they do is they tip it upside down, they freeze the head so that the sediment freezes into an ice cube. They take the top off, there's a burst of champagne that draws out the sediments. They put some more wine in, they put some more yeast in, and at that point, they put the cork in and put the metal cage on to. To secure it. And you can. You can visit, can't you, the cellars, and see it happening if you go to the right part of France. And that's the only reason I know the answer to this, because I did that on Saturday. What, you were there? Yes. It's just amazing, this show today, we had a hotelier from Sharmell Sheikh in the first there, and now we've got a bloke who visited the champagne. What town is it in? Oh, no. They said it's a place in Woking. You've ruined it now. In Woking? I thought you'd been wandering through the catacombs of gay Paris or something like that. Oh, I wish. Well, it got you a round of applause anyway. The famous Woking champagne method. Great work. Now go and catch that car thief, quick. It's 1246 coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty, first Tunisia, now Egypt. Are we right to change our holiday habits or should it just be business as usual? Leading Britain's conversation, Sheila Fogarty, this afternoon. From what on? LBC? Ten minutes to one is the time. Ten minutes till Sheila. So we need to answer some questions and possibly even squeeze in a couple more before then. Let's start with Brian, who's on the line, Brian, question or answer? I've got an answer. Go on, then. Yeah, and it's about the jukeboxes origins of the phrase juke. Why is it called a jukebox? Yeah. Because back in the day, when they had all the plantations in America and the slaves working on it, or at the end of the slave trade, they used to play a lot of blues music. They used to have. I can't hear, mate, the phone lines gone. Gone south. It's not your fault. Started off fine. I'm going to go to Joseph in Lewisham, who's answering the same question. What's your answer? Oh, why? Okay. Well, I think it was a very long. The same kind of things. Basically, there were the abbreviation for Duke. It was bordello. You know, ladies, a lady's working house, shall we say. Does that make sense? Yeah. What? Of course I know what a lady's working house. You mean a brothel? I'm just trying to be polite. Well, you are being polite. Yes. There you go. Just trying to be polite. And basically, it was a place where they started playing music inside of it. And then when they made the actual infamous, back in the 1930s and 1940s, a lot of them had them in they. And it just took on the name as being called a jukebox because it was just basically, they were. A lot of. Were in bars and they were in brothels. I remembered the answer to this while you've been talking, actually, and it's partly because Beverly Knight's last big show in the west end, Memphis, was set largely in something called a duke joint. And it didn't have to be a brothel. It was just a kind of informal, possibly not properly regulated african american music place. Well, when I was watching History channel, they used it as an example, was inside of that. And a couple of days later, my friend bought a car and it was called the Duke. And I used to go, oh, you drive around in the brothel? I think you had to be there, Joseph. Oh, you did, really? I'm going to give you a round of applause. I've just got to tell Brian he's wrong. Brian, mate, you're wrong. I'm not. You are. To do with the boxes. No, it's a duke. A duke joint. A duke joint. It had nothing to do with plantations and slavery. Well, I suppose it might have done, actually. No, you're actually, you're right. It would have done. It would have started there, and then it would have become more formalized. So you're both right. And I don't get any of this but you can share it, boys. Yeah. Rooms that were built for people to socialize in. And, of course, if they originated on the plantations, those people would have been slaves. And the music that became on the jukebox is if you got the chance to see Memphis. Beverley was magnificent in it. I took my mum to see it. I told you this. Oh, man. And we went backstage to meet the star that is Beverly knight. And I can't remember having that much fun on a night out in London in years. I was absolutely magnificent. And she's in cats now. I forgot to wish her luck. So if you see her, tell her Ricardo's in Felton. Question or answer, Ricardo? I have a question, James. Bring it on. Why do we put cold water in a kettle when it makes probably timing sense to put hot water in a kettle? Yeah, good one. I can answer this. Oh, go on. You're a young man. That's why you don't know the answer. Okay. When you were a lad. Okay, when I was a lad, my mum used to tell a story about the hot water tank at home versus the cold water tank, and the hot water tank wouldn't be clean in the same way that the cold water tank would. Whereas now you take your feed through a combi boiler, you perfectly would be sensible to put hot water in your kettle. Or indeed, when you're making pasta, put hot water in the pan. So you can put hot water in the kettle. You can if you've got a combi boiler. Not if you've got a hot water tank in the loft, because then it could have any, you know, stuff gets into it. It's the tank that feeds the immersion heater. You what? Will it not be boiled away? No. What do you mean, it'd be boiled away? You got to turn it off before it boils away. But that's true of cold water. You had a tank in the loft. Some people still do. That feeds into the immersion heater or the, you know, the thing in the airing cupboard, the big tank in the airing cupboard. And that water wasn't fresh because it's been sitting in the loft for a month or for however long it is since you last had a bath. In your case, Ricardo. Could be. Could be a very long time. And the cold water came in fresh, because now the combi boiler is fed by the water, comes out of the same combi boiler. Bada bing, bada boom, bada bing. Therefore, you could put hot water out of a combi boiler straight in the kettle, and it would take less time to boil and you'd save a bit of money. Great. But I haven't got one of those, so. Oh, all right. We'll carry on using cold water, then, and I'll just take the round of applause to the bank. Barry's in Barnhurst. Question or answer, Barry? It's an answer, James. Come on, Barry. It's an answer to the wire. Kittens and not cubs, because the mountain lion is not actually a lion. What? Don't tell them it's not actually a lion. Or it's sometimes called a cougar or a puma. It's actually the largest of the cat family, the felines, whereas the lions. Tigers are of the genus Panthera, so that's actually a felis, the panthera, they get called cubs. So they are from different genes. Yes. Genesis. I've got all their albums as well. Round of qualifications, Barry. I don't know, I just picked it up somewhere. Where, mate? Where? Come on. Off of a wildlife program, probably. David Attenborough. There you go. And ran it. Earned you a round of applause. Thank you. That's not so long. Zero. 345-606-0973 squeeze you in, I think. What else do we need? We've got Glenn's in Enfield. Glenn, have you complained already about not getting on? No. Well, then, I've got to say sorry to another Glenn. I've got another Glenn on Twitter. He reckons he was gazumped by Professor Howell, so I'll say sorry to that Glenn. And now I welcome you. What's your answer? Well, no, I'm just questioning your answer about the dogs. Oh, no, we can't have a stewards inquiry at 1256, mate. Well, you get about. Let me tell you, you was right. Human blood ain't the same for dogs. But any dog can give blood to any other dog because they originate from one species, the wolf. We all originate from one species and we've all got different blood. Yeah, I know, but we have a very rare blood type. But you can get an alcation that will give black and give blood to a chihuahua. It doesn't matter. But there's no a or no and a and o and o and a or anything like that. There may be, but there. But there's. But there's no difference in the blood groups that they're all compatible. That wasn't the question. Well, so you don't need to. So all. But you can take any blood from any dog and stick it in any dog at all? That's right, yeah. Qualifications. Just. Just something I know that's not really good enough. Yeah, it's my show. I'm allowed to be Billy big bananas. I'm making up as I go along, mate. But that's my prerogative. When you've got your own show, you can talk nonsense and pretend that it's definitive. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Save it for the judge. Have Elsin Norbury have our question or answer. Well, the bubble and squeak. James, you are absolutely right. It's turning into a bit of a legend, this show, isn't it? It's going. Gonna go down in history, is one of the best ones ever. I heard the answer on this respectable program and the person who gave the answer did get a round of applause. So you should have claimed a round of applause today. It's just the noise that it makes while you're cooking it. It bubbles and it squeaks. Exactly. Because you're frying, essentially. Carbohydrates. Yes. And some bacon and also maybe Brussels sprouts or whatever. Brussels sprouts, lovely. Oh, they elevate a bubble and squeak to a bubble and squeak. And for something else qualifications have. I know, you've told me. But they said, I heard it on this respectable program very much. It's not as respectable as it used to be, but we're still flying the flag for respectability. Thursdays from twelve. Round of applause. And that, believe it or not, concludes our 3 hours together for today. I know what you're thinking. Felt like three minutes. Well, it did for me, anyway. Probably spelt that three days for you. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. You've been listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The time now it's 1259. And the next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James.