James O'Brien's Mystery Hour - 21st June

Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Mystery hour. I love the way he says that. Gary and horn. Such, mate. Well played. You got the gag that I was desperately trying to cobble together while I was live with Theo Oshawood discussing the resignation of the trade minister, Greg hands over the government's decision to press ahead with the third Runway at Heathrow. The question Theo and I were bantering about revolved around the prospect of Boris Johnson keeping the promise that he made to the people of Uxbridge when seeking election in that constituency. That he would move heaven and earth to resist the building of the third Runway, that he would go as far as lying down in front of the bulldozers. Such is his passionate concern about the passionate concerns of the constituents of Uxbridge. Gary got the gag. He said, James, if Boris does resign, we won't need a third Runway at Heathrow, because we will all be able to use our own personal flying pigs. There you go. Boris Johnson doing something honourable. Time now for mystery hour, which is almost as funny as the notion of Boris Johnson doing something honourable. The number you need, as you know by now, is zero 345-606-0973 that was stupid. I tried to speed up to fit in with the beeps at the bottom. It means no one got the number at all. I only say the number if I've got phone lines free. Okay. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a mystery that is in need of solving. It's not like Nancy Drew or the Hardy boys. Not that kind of mystery, I'm not sure. Like Holmes. It's more like, why do we do that? Or where does that come from? What's that about? Something scientific, perhaps, or something silly? There are really no very strong rules. We try and steer clear of dullness and repetition. Dullness very much in the ear of the beholder. So if it's a question about motoring, we're generally going to politely invite you to move along. And repetition is kind of my job now. As the staffing on the program has shifted and changed so much over the years since we started. I can't really blame anybody else. If a question gets put through that we've dealt with before. There is an archive. It's actually very, very jolly. My colleague Adrian, who hates hearing his name on the radio, has assembled an archive at LBC Dot co dot UK, where you can see questions passed and answers passed. And it also provides a fairly neat indication of how it works. So we will do very serious questions, but we will also do quite silly ones. The real kicker is, of course, that if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, you have to ring in and tell us the answer. And you have to almost prove your credentials, if you see what I mean. I'll ask what your qualifications are and you will reply by telling me anything at all that explains why you know that thing that you know. Contingent upon that, of course, is the simple observation that you're not allowed to look anything up, either online or in books. If you've read a book previously, or if you've stumbled upon the relevant nugget of information in the past, fill your boots, by all means, but don't look stuff up. It's a celebration of knowledge. In fact, we touched upon that yesterday with Professor Hal, who's the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and something of a mystery, our institution, because I like, despite yesterday, being in favour of kids using their phones as research tools in classrooms, I like the idea of knowledge. I still do. In fact, I meant to tell you. You know Nick was talking about the head of Ofsted saying we might bring back lines as a punishment for children. Do you know what the best thing is on that? Poems. Not just, I will not cheek the teacher, I will not cheat the teacher, not stuff like from the opening frames of a Simpsons episode, but getting kids, if you really do want to punish them with repetition, get them to write out a poem, the same poem again and again and again and again and again and then by the time they finished writing out. So write out that William Blake poem I inflicted upon you the other day. London. Get them to write out London a hundred times and by the end of it, they'll know it forever. It will be. And that's helpful. What's the point of writing out? I will not steal my teacher's apple a hundred times. Pointless. But get them to write out a poem a hundred times and at the end of the process, I don't know quite why I've gone off on that particular tangent. I do apologise. Eight minutes after twelve is a time mystery hour is upon us. Phone lines are open, questions are in place. Shall we start? Yes, we shall. John's in Epsom. John, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on, John. This is hopefully one that our patron saint, Professor Howe, can answer. We shall see. Yeah. So I work on a golf course and I spend a lot of time in the sun. I get a good tan. Yes. My hands. So I get a lot of, like, cuts and scrapes and all that. And obviously scars now, I've noticed none of my scars on my arms are tanned. Why? There's no melanin in the scar tissue. But isn't scar tissue just skin? No, it's scar tissue. If it was just skin, you wouldn't be able to see it next to the other skin. I'm making this up, but I know I'm right. I'm not gonna get the round. I'm not gonna get the round of applause because I've just owned up to making it up as I go along. But. But it's gonna be something like that, isn't it? I'm not taking. I'm not. So I like that. How about, how scarred are you? I mean, I'm worried now. Maybe three or four scars on each and for each forearm. How do you get scarred playing golf? Well, no, I'm a green keeper, so I look after the golf course and thorns and that sort of thing. I thought you were the pro. I thought you were the pro. Do you play a bit, though? No, I don't. I hate golf. It's just the grass you like. That reminds me, we've got. We're dedicating the whole of tomorrow to examining cannabis laws in this country. John, great question. Why don't John scarce tan zero? 345-606-0973 Louise is in Richmond. Louise, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Louise. I send a lot of stuff back to my parents in Ireland. I'm always told to put on the blue sticker which says by airmail. Yes. Why is it we have par avion underneath? It's all over, every single blue sticker that you put on. So you fix your stampage, the cost of whatever it is. But the airmail stickers by air mail. Pour avion, Royal Mail. Why have we chosen piabil? Because it's the. It's the lingua franca of international mail. What do you mean? It's French for Bay Air. I know, but why have we chosen to use the french derivation of it? Because that's the international language of air freight. Ah, okay. Par avion. You had to choose one language, so they chose French. Oh, okay. I don't know why, but they did. That was my question. I don't know why they chose. Yeah, all right, we'll go with the why. I'll let you have a supplementary because it's a bit obvious, the first bit. You know, for one terrible minute, I thought you were asking me what par avion meant. No, I know what that means. I know, you know what it means. But for one terrible minute I thought that you didn't know what it means. I just didn't understand why we. It was chosen for that particular language, the french version to be used. Is there another example of an international where French is the lingua franca? Go on then. I'm trying to think. Past support, passport, all diplomatic. I think we're moving into definitive territory now. It's the international language of diplomacy. Is it? I didn't know that. Nor did I. Ivan just said it in my ear, so I can't take a round of applause. We shall find out. Why does it say part? Why is French the language of air mail? Exactly. Merci, merci. Au revoir. Au revoir. Let's. Minutes after twelve. I can't believe that I said paravion in such a sort of english accent. I should have. Matthew's in seven Oaks. Matthew, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Matthew. Okay, the question is, where does the term silly sausage come from? Why do you want what? Why do you want to know? Well, basically my girlfriend called me the other day and I was like, where does that come from? It doesn't make any sense. I'm going to get James to talk out. And also she's quite political. When I was trying to show off to her that I listened to your show. So you are trying to use the fact that you listen to this show to woo your girlfriend? Well, I listen to you every day, but you are one of the main political things that I listen to in this country, so you're very kind. And then when she said she didn't know to James Hyde Fridays, I said, what? This is outrageous. You haven't been dating that long then, by the sounds of it. No, it hasn't. It was, it was first couple of weeks. Sweet silly sausage. You're definitely not a silly saucer. She's the silly sausage. If you listen to the show and she doesn't, she's the. Do you think it might be punch and Judy? It might be punch and Judy, I'm not sure. Nor am I. Someone will enlighten us both. All three of us, in fact. Where does the phrase silly sausage come from? I do not know. Do you? Barry is in Woolwich. Barry, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Mary. Hi there. Hi there. Donald Trump. Yeah. Not specifically Donald Trump, but can you lose a Nobel priest prize? Not yet. Not yet. He's not. He's not going to get one. There's some. One of the key members of the Nobel panel has described him in the sort of language I use. But if he did get it and then he started a war, could he lose it? Yeah. Because, I mean. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's basically it. Can he lose it? Just peace prize. Not the other ones? No. Is there a Nobel war price? No. But there's a Nobel prize for chemistry, a Nobel prize for physics, a Nobel prize for literature, and Nobel prize for lots of other Nobel prizes. Donald Trump's not going to get those. You never know. You know. He writes the best books. He writes the best books. His books. The greatest books. He's got the best. He's got the best words. He's got the best. He does the best chemistry. Stop it. So can you lose a Nobel peace. That's actually a beautiful question. I'm just trying to think who might have historically, whether. I love that. All right, you're on. Yes, someone will know the answer. Can you lose a Nobel Peace prize? And the only way. Well, either someone knows the rubric of the Nobel committee or someone has lost it. That's the best way of demonstrating that you can. 30 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why is French the international language of diplomacy? And more pertinently for Louise's purposes, airmail. Why don't scars tan? What's the origin of the affectionate insult? Silly sausage. And can you lose a Nobel Peace prize? Line ten is currently free. Zero. 345-606-0973 Ty is in Brentwood. Ty, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Ty. Why is a baby kangaroo called a Joey? Uh, Joey. Well, I mean, is that a proper question? Why is a baby cat called a kitten? Why is a baby dog called a. Was a baby squirrel called a pup? Well, why not call it a Joey? Yes. I was reading to my. My little girl and it came up in the. In the book. So she asked it and I said, I'm gonna find out because it sounds. It sounds older. Yeah, it does sound a bit different. Absolutely. Sounds different to a puppy or a kitten or. Yeah, Joey. It's a name rather than a noun. Joey. Why does it baby? I mean, probably because Aussies are so sort of relaxed about everything and they thought they'd just call it a Joey, mate. But that's obviously not a definitive answer. How old's your little girl? Four. Three and four. Actually, 27. 27. James. But she loves kangaroos. What book were you reading? Can you remember? It was a book about the world. Lovely. And Australia was experienced. Different places you go to sort of Australia, then go to China. Then go to. And it would. It would name all the landmarks there. Oh, great stuff. All right, well, there you go. Pressure's on. Now we've got to get an answer for, haven't we? Why. Why are baby kangaroos called Joey's? 0345. Cheers. Cheers. Ty zero. 345-606-0973 if you know the answer to any of the five questions that we've got on the board already, you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery owl continues. Jean Jin Croydon. Jean, question or answer? Stick to Jean. Jean. Oh, je suis monsieur paradonnet moi. Excuse. No problem. All right. Is originally the airmail system west was started by french people, started from Toulouse. They went along the african coast, up to Senegal, and then they went as far as Brazil. This was the first air mail. Yeah, it was the first freight. It was mail and it was going as far as Brazil. Donk paravion etoujo don les lettres. Well, up it became the standard. I love that I said, of course they invented it. They invented airmail. So it's just. It's always been on there. And it started from Toulouse. Toulouse all the way to Brazil. What a lovely, lovely answer. I'm so sorry that I mispronounced your christian name. They could have used to it. Well, I bet you're used to it. But I'm a pedant, the master of pedantry and precision. They should have put a gender marker on your name when you came on the board. But I shall give you a round of applause, John. Thank you. What's your. I forgot. What you're welcome is anyway. You're welcome. 20 minutes after twelve, you listen to James O'Brien on LBC. Randall is in Bristol. Question or answer? Randall. Hello to the question. Yours. Yeah, question. And so why do some daisies turn pink? I've spoiled it, obviously. Yeah. Recently we've noticed it more, but some daisies seem to, like, start to shrivel and turn pink. Is it a disease? The genetic variant? A mineral content of the soil? I tried to look for different types of daisies, but it's not a specific type. It must be something in the soil. It's why flamingos are pink, mustn't it? I don't know, though. Why am I even trying to answer? So you mean that if you see a little patch of daisies, some of them will have pink extremities? Yeah. They're not all pink, are they? They're white, but with pinky. I'm looking at a patch of daisies. Now, most of them are big and white. And then. Yeah, thought I'd around them a random pink ones. And are the pinky ones identical in all other ways to the whitey ones? They're slightly more shriveled, a bit more closed off. So I was thinking, is it a daisy disease? Daisy disease, I like that. Why do some daisies go pink? You're on. I should love. I'll do my best for you, Randall. Thank you very much. Why baby kangaroos called Joey's Toby. I think my laughing. I've had my laugh out loud moment. I stopped guaranteeing a laugh out loud moment on mystery arrows. It's almost taking the pressure off. I forgot about that Toby in Orpington. I've had my laugh out loud moment. It was your australian accent. Fair dinkum. 22 after twelve. Why baby kangaroos called Joey? Can you lose the Nobel Peace Prize? Can it be withdrawn? That's my favourite question this week so far. What's the origin of the affectionate insult? Silly sausage. And why don't scars get suntans? Hassan is in Balam. Question or answer? Hassan. Hello there. Yeah, hi. I've got a question, actually, which I've been pondering over for many, many years. Yes, and my question is this, if these ropes. What legal speed limit is. Hold it there. Who put Hasan through? Hands up. If you put Hassan through. Who was it? Who put Hassan through? It was. It was a. You haven't been here very long. Motoring questions are the very definition of dull. This is the only mystery hour rule that we have. Is that. You mean you can even tell I love you, Hassan, but you can even tell by his voice? This is going to be a boring question. Quick question, though. Yeah. All right. Watch and learn, Ava. Watch and learn. All right, go on. So why can they not, at the point of manufacturing, be restricted to 70 mph such that we never go over the limit? The legal limit. Yeah. Well, what if you were trying to escape from a really dangerous place? All right, then 90 miles an hour, then. Well, then you're over the legal limit. I know, but at least it's not. What if you want to drive it on a private road or have a quick tool around brand's hatch? Then you get permission or you get something. How are you going to change your car if it's already been made that way? Well, if you can have some sort of. And also what if you're selling your cars in many different markets where they have very different speed limits? For example, in Germany, there are no speed limits. So you make a BMW, sell it in Birmingham and then you make it and sell it in Berlin. The bloke in Berlin is going to be furious that you can only do 70 on the autobahn. But then cars are made. Right hand drive. Yes, but you might want to. You might buy your car in Britain and move to Germany. Then what are you going to do? Then we can get it changed or. I think you've answered your own question, mate. Okay, all right. This is just a question. I know, and I feel bad now because you didn't know that I have a real. I didn't know that. No, I know you didn't. And obviously the producer didn't either, because as I mentioned earlier, the team has changed a lot over the years. But regular mystery hour listeners, if they knew anything about this, they'd know that I don't like motoring questions, but I feel bad now because I've been rude to you. That's all right. It's not, though, is it? It's a bad example for the children. That's what it is. My children are listening. Why not? Right, I'm going to share my round of applause with you. Hassan does that. Is that. Is that a good way of making up? All right, this is half for Hassan, half for me. There we go. Good man. David is in Kent. All rise. Question or answer, David? I've got an answer for you gents. Bring it on. It's for the Nobel Prize question. Oh, yes. I remember back last year when the whole controversy about the Rohingya Muslims was going on about Ansang. Yes. Or Suki, you might remember, she has a Nobel Peace prize right under. There was a petition signed. I remember reading about it. And the head of the Nobel Institute, wherever his name is, came out and said that you can't take a prize away because the will of Alfred Nobel nor the rules of the foundation allow for you to take the prize away. So it's never. It's never actually been done and you can't do it. You're not allowed to do it. You're 100% certain that you remember this correctly? Yeah, I do. I can remember distinctly. So in the terrifying reality that Trump did get something, we can't take it away. Well, mate, if they. If the North Koreans get rid of their nuclear weapons, he's welcome. Welcome to one. Obviously hold complete, completely negative view of the man. But even a stop clock is right twice a day. If Kim Jong un actually gets rid of all his nuclear weapons, then fair play, let them. Let him have a Nobel Peace prize. True. All right, so you get a round of applause and possibly Trump gets a Nobel Peace Prize personally. The round of applause. It's worth more. Thank you. Good man. Of course, that's a brilliant example as well from actual sort of recent events. So there you go. Louise. No, it wasn't Louise. She asked about the airplanes. It was Barry that asked about the Nobel Prize. A couple of finals free need answers now. So if you can tell me why a baby kangaroo is called a joey. Natasha, Devon's been in touch, the writer and mental health campaigner. I didn't know this and you're right to share this nugget of trivia even though it doesn't actually advance our cause on mystery hour. A single centimeter. A baby mackerel is also called a joey. So maybe there is going to be an etymological explanation for that. I hope so, because I love saying etymological. So we've done that silly sausage. Where does that come from? Might not come from anywhere. It could just be one of those things that sort of sprung up because it's got an agreeable alliteration to it. And a sausage is quite a comical thing. Why don't scars get sun tans? And why some daisies? Pink zero 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those, or indeed because it's only 26 minutes after twelve. If you've got a question of your own, I can tell you now, you will get through amazingly. It's just been rattling through it this week. Either that or I've spooked Ava after telling her off for through the motoring call and now she's telling everybody to clear off and they're not coming on for being so boring. Jane is in Durham. Jane, what would you like to say? Hi there. My question is, what are the origins of rock, paper scissors? Well, I mean. Well, the first recorded use of it. How would we know? Yeah, I mean, it's a gap. I mean, everyone knows what it is, except there's Wanda's. A brilliant piece. Actually, as a writer, I've kind of fallen in love. Seamus O'Reilly writes in the old server. He tells stories about his dad not knowing what rock, paper scissors was. He managed to get to the age of about 84, never in his life having come across the game of rock, paper scissors. He had eleven children as well. He raised them on his own. He's a brilliant, brilliant writer. I digress enormously. Why do you want to know? I mean, I don't know if it's a because it's. It's. It's obvious how it happened. It was a game that was played when there weren't any games. It was like, you know, all you need is a hand each. You only need one hand to play rock, paper. You don't even need two hands, do you? So, yeah, it was just me and my husband were having a debate as to whether we were going to watch the greatest showman or La la land, and ended up doing rock, paper, scissors to try and decide, so. And then I just thought, well, when did this become a thing? That's how you make a decision. It's the same composer, isn't it, those two films? I believe so. I think it is. Ultimately, whatever the. Whatever the decision was make, it was going to be my idea as to which one we would watch. But it's nice to have tools in which to make that. It's nice him to feel that his opinion matters, even though we all know that it doesn't. Yes, I'm acknowledging it. It's called marriage. I like that. So what did you see? Which one did you see in the end? Well, we're gonna see the greatest showman, which is my choice. Controversial. La la Land's much better. Oh, is it? Well, we'll watch both eventually. Of course you will. Reassuring knowledge in the background. Okay. The origin of rock, paper scissors. I hope we get an answer to that, because it's a lovely question. Thank you, Jane. Why some daisies pink? Why are baby kangaroos called Joey's or indeed baby mackerel? Origin of silly sausage? And why don't scarves? Suntan Zero? 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can answer any of those. Howard, you have been listening a long time, wondering whether Hassan knows about the no Colin rule. I lifted the no Colin rule about four years ago, actually. You must have missed that show. We now allow Collins on the program. We went through a phase. Just glance at the clock. I've got ten minutes to share, so 10 seconds to share some mystery or the program related trivia with you. We went through a phase back when sort of, you know, the upsurge in racism and nativism that Ukip represented was still funny. We went through a phase of asking everyone who rang in who was called Derek, Roger, or Nigel whether they supported Ukip. When we stopped playing that game, we had a 65% success rate. Anyone called Derek, Roger, or Nigel, 65% of them did indeed support that party. And we also had a ban on Collins. On. I felt the very reasonable grounds that they were always really boring. But looking back, I can't believe I was so cruel and indeed so immature. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Some of our questions still need answers, but we still have time for a few more questions as well. What's the origin of rock paper scissors? I'd like to think it was in the trenches or something like that. We need a sort of historic. I bet there is a university post that involves being a historian of games. I wish I'd paid more attention at school. Sometimes I've ended up doing the job that I would have chosen out of all the available jobs ever in the history of the world. But in terms of studying, you speak to young people now, younger people, and they know so much more because obviously the financial investment makes them take their tertiary education a lot more seriously. Anyway, what's the origin of rock paper scissors? Daisies that go pink. What's the difference between them and the daisies that don't go pink? Why are baby kangaroos called Joey's? What's the origin of silly sausage? As an affectionate insult? And why don't scars go brown? Why don't they? Suntan 1235 is the time, the number you need. If you can answer any of those remains the same and we'll go to. Mark is in Sunderland. Mark, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. Mark, the tan scars yours? It's got all their albums. Well, I'm not quite sure where the. Because I missed the. I missed that caller. I thought I was working at some. That's okay. Are you all right, mate? You sound. You sound a bit distracted. Oh, yeah. Sorry. I've just got out the bathroom. You just got out the bath? Yes. Okay. I was listening to you in the bath. Very intimate. Well, basically, yeah, because I have a large amount of scarring and it does tan. Oh. So I was quite extensively scarred when I was a child. I'm sorry to hear that, I suppose. Can I ask whether it. Were you burnt? Yes, it was hot water. Yes. I wonder whether it's different for. Because the caller was cut. Oh, I see. Possibly. I don't know that it. But. So I'm definitely going to give you a round of applause, not least in the hope of getting the mental image of you stepping out of the bath out of my brain. Your scars go brown. I mean, it's a different type of scar, but it actually goes brown to a degree where it doesn't stand out from the rest of the skin as much as usual or. Forgive me for being impertinent. Oh, no, not at all. What I've got is I've got proper skin grafts. Probably is a different kind of scar, but, I mean, I tan quite well anyway. Oh, that's good. So it's. They seem to go, like, darker than the rest of my skin. Oh, wow. So are they less prominent or more prominent compared to the rest of them? Go a bit more red. Okay, well, you've had your round of applause, but I'm going to leave the question on the board for other types of sky. Crikey. That's a slightly odd little avenue of mystery hour this week. We're now splitting a question in half according to scar type top man. Go and dry yourself. Seriously, go and dry yourself. Otherwise you might, you know, might chafe a bit. Aidan is in Epson. Aidan, question or answer? Question. James, you're not in the bath, are you, mate? No, it would have been. That would have been odd. Carry on. Yeah. There is a well known cleaning product, and the advertising strap line is, who buy this product cleans 99% of all household gems. Dead. Yes, you probably remember the one. I do, yes. My question is, what is the 1% of germs that can't kill? I think that this is actually more to do with advertising standards than it is to do with science, in the possibility that there's a germ it can't kill has to be admitted by the slogan rather than them having actually measured it. So I think it probably does kill 100%. But a germ might appear at one point that it doesn't kill, and they have to acknowledge that possibility. But I don't know. I mean, I don't know. Who would know? Would it be a scientist or an advertising expert? A scientist who works in advertising. You don't set the bar high, do you? Yes. Bring me your scientists who work in advertising. So what is the 1% of known? Oh, it says known, though, so that. Yes, exactly. What is the 1% of household germs that domestos doesn't kill? And that's the ones we want to avoid. That's a lovely, lovely question. I shall do my. I shall endeavor to get you an answer. Take care, Aidan. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the answer to that. I'm beginning to think we might need some answers. Andrew is in Hastings. Andrew, question or answer? Uh, question, please. Carry on. Why can't we grow blue roses? Blue roses? Yeah. Because I asked Mister Cameron when he landed his helicopter in my garden that question, and he seemed a bit flummoxed because they wanted to get away a bit quick during the election time. Do you really want to know why we can't grow blue roses? Or were you just desperate to tell a million people that David Cameron landed his helicopter in your garden? I said to him, why can't we go blue roses? I only go red roses here. I said, because I sick. I support labor. And he came a bit plummet. He wanted to get away a bit quick. I'm not surprised. Why did he land his helicopter in your garden? Well, I run a bit of a b and b here and they found me on the Internet and this company that supplied the helicopter, he was flying around the country trying to pick up boats, especially in Hastings. They picked us out and give us 50 quid for it. Is that all you get for landing? And you got 50 quid flipping it tight water. So it's you that wants to know why we can't grow blue rose. Yeah, I do. You don't really. You just wanted to tell that rather excellent anecdote that was the real reason you've rung in. I know that, Andrew. You know that. Let's not. Let's not be. Yeah. Everybody knows blue. Why can't you grow blue roads? Maybe you can grow blue roses. Yeah, perhaps you can. But I've never. You don't even care, mate, do you? But I couldn't find out there. Oh, all right. And do you grow a lot of roses? Oh, well, I've got a few in front of me and. But I got three acres the other side looking out. This is. This is. I love London. I really love London. I've lived here since I was 18 and I don't think I'd ever want to live anywhere else. But I do sometimes come down to Sussex. That's what I was about to say. When somebody like you describes having a real vista, a real rural vista, and a few acres there is a little bit of me. The farm boy in me starts feeling wistful. Nice and calming. Nice. That's what we need, you see? Nice and calm. Nice and calm. Yeah. All right, steady on. This is. This is my job, mate, you know? Not your crap. I love you. I don't think he needs an answer. Why can't you grow blue roses? Daniel is in Mansfield. Daniel, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Do you want to know something? Yeah. Why is a baby kangaroo called a joey? Yeah. It originates back in the aboriginal language and it means small animal. And Joey is the collective known for any baby animal in Australia. It's just talk to the name of a kangaroo. Qualifications. I lived over there for ten years and I was just intrigued. And the weird names of the call, everything. And that might be why a baby mackerel is known as a Joey as well. Yes. Oh, it's a lovely answer. You're getting a round of applause. No, thank you. And oddly enough, when I read out that a baby mackerel was called a Joey and I said it was my friend Natasha Devon who had sent that in as a text, it wasn't. She's just texting me privately on my phone to say that wasn't me. It's good to know she's listening. So it must have been someone called Natasha in Devon who texted in and then got described as a well known mental health campaigner, which must have been slightly odd for her. I've just texted LBC about a fish and he's read my name out and my town and described me as a well known mental health campaigner and author. There you go, Natasha in Devon. Not Natasha Devon. I'm glad we've cleared that up. Lee's in Camberley. Question or answer, Lee? It's an answer. Carry on, Lee. So the reason that the chemicals, cleaning chemicals, can only say that they kill 99.9% is to do with log reduction and the legal way they're tested. Yeah. Is that. I mean, is that the answer? Have you finished? I have, yeah. So, I mean, you can. Well, which is the 1% of germs that it won't kill, then? There isn't a 1% doesn't kill, but what it is is when they test it, they have to see how many organisms they kill against certain organisms. Right. And they test it to a certain tolerance. And the law for cleaning products says they have to meet a three log reduction. A three log reduction, yeah. Which is 99.9%. So it kills zero point. It kills 99.9% of all known germs? Some of them, yes. Depending on the product. So can anything kill 100% of all known germs? A strong enough percentage, absolutely. But that would be dangerous to people, so they wouldn't use it. I would melt through. So it's just to keep it on the right side of. The right side of not melting your kitchen tops. Absolutely, yeah. Qualifications? I'm a specialist nurse in infection prevention and control. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. I don't know. I went early on that because you didn't you? It's not like you make bleach, is it? Well, you can change the percentage. Can you? Yes. Oh, yeah. You deserve your Ray Liotta. And you get around and you get a round of applause as well. Great work. Well done, Lee. Thank you. Coming up to quarter to one, I squeeze in. Tina, who's in reading. Question or answer? Tina. Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. Why is the air that we breathe out of our nose colder than the air that comes out of our mouth? It's not. It is. No, it's not. I'm glad you thought that was as funny as I did. I don't know where that came from. Seriously, write this down. Now. I think it's wind chill factor because if you're measuring how hot your breath is when you breathe out of your nose, you're breathing harder than you are when you're breathing out of your mouth. So the wind chill factor when it hits your skin is because there's more air hitting your skin, so that. So the heat is being withdrawn from your skin faster than it is when you breathe out of your mouth because the air is over a much wider space. Well, I thought that you'd say that, so I've been trying it really slowly. That's warm, then. No, it's not. You know you're lying. It's warm. Hang on. So this is going to feel cold and this is going to feel warm. Yeah, but I've done it the. I've done it the opposite way around and it's exactly the same. All right, I'll put the question on the board, but it's built on a false premise. However, given that you gave me the opportunity for one of the finest jokes I have ever made in my life, I don't really care whether we go and answer to this or not. Perfect. Thank you very much. Thank you, Tina. Why is the air coming out. Why is the breath coming out of Tina's nose colder than the breath coming out of her mouth? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LB, trying to get answers to a variety of questions. I particularly would like to know the origin of the game. Rock, paper, scissors, why some daisies go pink and why you can't grow blue roses. Although I think we all know Andrew only rang in to tell us about the time David Cameron landed a helicopter in his garden. He doesn't really care, but I would quite like to. Maybe you can get blue rose. Roses are an amazing enthusiasm. You know, people spend their lives trying to create such shades of rose and you can copyright roses and you already know this. Terry's in Cranbrook. Terry, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Terry. James, essentially, scars are fibrous tissue and they can't produce melanin. So because they can't produce melanin, they can't tan. I know this because I was a paramedic for 15 years, but also I had my knee replaced ten weeks ago. Oh, yeah. I'm staring down at my suntan leg and a very purpley scar going down the center of it and will always be a purpley scar going down the center of it. Even if you move to Barbados, it will always be a purplish scar. But as it heals and heals, it eventually go a sort of a pale white color. And that's to do with healing. It's got nothing to do with melanin. I actually. I mean, I don't want to sound even more kind of conceited than usual, but I answered this question perfectly at the very outset. I used the word melanin and I used the phrase scar tissue. You did? And I didn't give myself a round of applause because I am so innately modest. Yes. As I hear it on a daily basis. So luckily, that means the round of applause is still just waiting in the fridge for you, Terry. Thank you. Good work. And, of course, I think it was Mark, the fellow who just got out of the bath. His scarring, as he told us, was different because he. Not only was it caused by burning rather than cutting, but it was. He'd had skin grafts as well, which would involve actual skin rather than scar tissue. So everyone's happy Joe's in Tumbridge. Joe, question or answer? Answer, please, James, carry on, Joe. It's the answer to the blowing out of your nose. Yes. Why is it called? It was. It was one of my best son, Sandra. Sandra's producing the show today. She just said it was a dad joke, but it wasn't a dad joke. It was. Well, but it was a genius joke. It was one of the best jokes in the history of jokes. Carry on. So the reason is it's about increased velocity. So when you breathe out through your mouth, you're breathing through a bigger hole. When it comes agonize, it's a greater velocity, so therefore the temperature has to decrease. It's about balancing the equations of. So the temperature does decrease, it is genuinely colder. It's not just the fact that it's absorbing more heat from your skin when it hit winds. If you do the same thing. So if you blow through your mouth wide open, it's quite warm. But if you purse your lips and blow the same effort, but obviously it comes out faster. It's a lot colder, but I don't think it is colder. I think it's just. It's hitting your skin more, so it's withdrawing the heat from your skin and it's making you feel cold. If you. If you. If you had. No, no, it's not. It's about the balance of the equations. I deal with fluid hydraulics and the same thing applies. So if you push water through a pipe and the restriction in the pipe gets smaller, the velocity up to increase, the temperature decreases as well. Yeah. I'm not going to argue with you now because you said fluid hydraulics. I also deal in fluid hydraulics, but in my case, it's rhyming slang. Round of applause for Joe. 3 hours a day of fluid hydraulic from this program. Catherine's in Barnes. Catherine, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on, Catherine. It's the blue rose. There is a blue rose. It's not 100% blue. It's a kind of sort of bluey mauve. And it's just been genetically modified because that's what a lot of rose enthusiasts do, isn't it? They try and get their own color. Yeah. It was done in Japan, I think, or America or somewhere, and they. They introduced a gene from, I think, delphiniums. And they've got a sort of bluey rose, but it's. It's, you know, it's sold as a blue rose, but it's actually rather. Rather revolting looking as well. Is it a bit insipid? Sort of somehow, rather. Then blue just doesn't fit. Roses. No. Or food blue. You don't get blue. Food is awful. It is awful. My kids drink this dreadful drink, a sort of slushy bride. I quite liked a blue slush puppy back in the day, I must be honest. But it's the. When we go to the cinema now, it's practically neon. This drink that they have. Blue and food don't really go together unless it's the veins running through a Stilton cheese. Catherine, blue roses don't really go. No. Do you know what it's called? The blue rose. Does it have a name? I know. I don't know. And what are your qualifications? If I just call it the blue Rose? Well, yeah. It's very descriptive. May I? How do you know? I'm just a sort of enthusiastic amateur gardener. That'll do. And would you like a round of applause. I would love a round of applause. Here it is. If you'd grown a blue rose yourself, I could have given you a ray Liotta. No, no, no. I wouldn't grow a blue rose. No. God forbid. Perish the thought. Thank you, Catherine. Marty's in Belfast. Marty, question or answer a question, please. James, you know champagne bottles come in very. I know champagne bottles, mate. I am the king of the champagne socialists. Of course I know about. You should be able to give yourself a Rayleigh auto. What is the origin of the names? Where did they come from and why are they called those? You know, you've got like a jeroboam on a Methuselah and whatever else. Nebuchadnezzar. You biblical kings. The biblical kings of Mesopotamia or somewhere like that. Why champion wasn't because it was monks, wasn't it? I have no idea. Don't Perignon invented champagne originally. It was made by monks, so they named the massive bottles off the. Off the characters out the Bible. You said that quite authoritatively, but I'm not convinced I wasn't authoritatively. That was speculatively. Do you want to hear authoritatively? Go on. That Dom Perignon invented champagne. And at the monastery where the drink was popularized, it was decreed by the abbot that the larger bottles should be named after key biblical characters, namely Jeroboam, Nebuchadnezzar and the other fella. Methuselah. Yeah, him. I'm Salman Azar. I don't think he's in the Bible. That means I'm wrong. No. All right, I'll leave it on the board. I'll leave it on the board. What's the biggest bottle of champagne you've ever bought? Oh, I don't know. Whatever. Tesco sale. Don't get many nebuchadnezzars in Tesco, mate. Not unless he's on the tills. 1255 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the answer you need if you know that. The answer to that question. I think we've done that relatively recently, but I've forgotten. So, you know, crack on, everybody. Enjoy it. Just. Just as a very, very brief afterthought to the conversation we had in the first hour about how people are desperate to believe things that aren't true with regard to Donald Trump, I'm now being bombarded by american trolls with a clip from the nineties which describes the law governing unaccompanied children. And they're replying to a tweet, this is how mad it all is now, which begins with the four words, the forced separation policy. So people are now sending me the american law regarding unaccompanied children as proof that I'm wrong about the forced separation policy. If you're unaccompanied weird Americans, you can't have a forced separation. Thank you and good night. Barry is in docklands. Barry, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Barry. Basically, I had to just challenge the question about the air coming out of the nose being warmer. Go on, then. So the air that's in the lung is a pretty much equal temperature and it's what you. When you breathe out, you're breathing air from the nose. Yeah. Now, definitely changes in velocity, surface area. You can perceive the temperature differently. But yes, one very important feature of noses, which is that they've got three internal structures called turbinate. Yes. Oh, no, his foot. He's gone in a tunnel. Whoa. We'll try and get him back. Seriously, you've got three internal structures in your nose? Nick's in Biliricki. Nick, question or answer? Well, it's an answer about the rose. It's called Rhapsody in blue. It's never. It is. And I've got two of them growing in my backyard. Oh, boy. Yes. There we are. Well, is it called Rhapsody in blue? Three separate words. Yes, it is. Yes. Do we know where it came from? I don't, but the ones I've got came from my father when our youngest son was born. Oh, you've got. You've got a blue rose in your garden. Yes. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will. That's just beautiful. And it was for your son as well, to mark his birth. Yes, it was, yeah. Just. I'm welling up here. Cedar Fogarty's in pieces on the other side of the studio. Give him a round of applause as well, Ivan. Great stuff, Nick. Thank you. What a great name as well, for a rose. And is it nice? Because Katherine in Barnes was quite dismissive of its aesthetic qualities. But it's. It's delightful. And the smell you get from it is overpowering. I see. Catherine, you need to. You need to be a bit more open minded about blue roses. Barry is at them now. Oh, we've done it. We've filled our boots. No, we've done Barry. Oh, no, he's back. Quick. Three. There's three bits in your nose, Barry. Yeah, sorry. So there are three structures in the nose called turbinates, and their primary function is to warm the air that we inhale through our nose. So when we're exhaling out, that very same air from the lungs is being warmed up by those three turbinates. She thought her hair. She thought the air coming out of her nose was colder. No, no, no, no. It's actually. It'll be warmer just because the three structures are highly vascularized. Of course, it's all about how highly vascularized they are, isn't it? It definitely is. So obviously, when she's noticing one is more cooler than the other, a lot of that is to do partly in the previous answer where he said about velocity of air. That was me. I said that bit, yeah. Oh, sorry, forgive me, but the important bit was the turbulence and how they warm the air. Are you the winner? What are your qualifications? I'm a doctor. Oh, round of applause. You don't get a radiota for that. You have a blue rose in your garden. If you get a radiota. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. We never found out what a silly sausage where that were. Rock, paper, scissors. The two origin. We're only supposed to do one origin question a week. We did two this week. We didn't get an answer to either of them. Never mind silly sausages, telephoto's here. Did you hear my joke earlier on? Yeah, the nose joke. No, it's one of the best jokes in history of jokes. Oh, I'm not a great one for jokes, but go on, try this one. So that question that Barry's just answering lady rang in that said, um, why does the air coming out of my. Why is the air coming out of my nose colder than the air coming out of my mouth? And I said, it's not. Oh, so childish. Are you serious? Yeah. Joke jokes rarely make me laugh. Oh, sorry about that. All right, I'll go home. I'm more of a weight on the wing kind of girl. Yeah. Can I apologize for kicking that large book at the corner of the room when I walked in? I don't think anybody heard. I think they did. So you like slapstick comedy? You see people falling over and wit, you know, quick wittedness. Quick witted. I said it live on the radio in about a nanosecond after she said, well, it was quick. Thank you, Sheila Fogarty. But was it witty? It was. It was quick. It was definitely snotty. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live everywhere. Weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.