What's the difference between OBE & MBE - 21 Apr 16

On LBC, three minutes after twelve is the time I was about to eschew the phrase let's get this party started. But I think I'll spare you the indignity of that. I don't think either of us. It's not a good look for either of us. I realized when I got back from my Holly bobs, I'm too old now to do what I used to do. I always used to put on Facebook. I'm back once again like a renegade master, back once again with the ill behaviour. But that's just pathetic, isn't it, frankly, when you spend most of your afternoons on the school run. So let's get rid of those catchphrases and instead launch into mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to get answers to the questions that have had you puzzled for the longest time. I want to know. Or rather, you want to know something. And somebody else listening to this will know the answer. The number you need. Zero 345-606-0973 and if you are new to this, allow me a moment just to bring you up to speed with what the rest of us are so excited about. It's a weekly opportunity, as I say, to achieve enlightenment, education, information. We don't have any modes of reference, so people will ring in with questions. Why do we do that? What's the origin of that? How do they do this? Where does that come from? Who, why? What, where, when, whence? Whither? Even the occasional wherefore, any interrogative pronoun you like. Actually, there's no discrimination on this program and you ask it. The only circumstances in which you won't be allowed on air is if you're really boring, or if someone's asked it recently enough for us to remember. And I'm afraid that Caroline and Victoria's decision on whether you're dull or not is final. So please don't argue you or seek to appeal to a higher power. Me. Your pleas will fall on deaf ears. Mine. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you do know the answer, then you need to ring in and provide it. And I think it is pretty much that simple. I really do. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Dullness and repetition are the only reasons that will see you politely invited to jog on with your question. If you've got something linked to her Majesty's birthday today, to the Queen's birthday today, something linked a question promptly by the coverage. That would be nice. It would be a nice way of marking it without getting too over excited about the occasion. And I think that's pretty much it, isn't it? Have I forgotten anything? Oh, yes. Two guarantees. You will know more by 01:00 than you do now. So by the end of this hour, if you're listening on podcasts or by the end of this podcast, you will know more than you do now. And I ordinarily promise that you'll get at least one laugh out loud moment as well. And I've never had any complaints about that. I've never had any requests for refunds. Obviously, humour is very much in the ear of the beholder, but on this occasion, it seems that the promise is pretty valid. You'll have a laugh out loud. You'll have a good chuckle between now and 01:00. Let's start with Mike, who is in Seven Oaks. Mike, question or answer? It would be pretty surprising if it was an answer to it. Well, you say that, Mike. I live in hope. I'd just like to know the significance of the 21 gone salute, that's all. I'm no royalist like yourself, but it's just secure. You can't come on here making sweeping generalizations about my attitude towards the royal family. What you talking about, man? I've been listening to for years, mate. Today of all day. I don't know what you mean. Today of all day. I'm all in favor of a royal family as long as I can be in it. All in favor of monarchs, as long as I can have a go and my girls can be princesses, and I've got nothing against it at all, as long as that happens. 21 guns to it. What other numbers are there? I don't know where there's 41 today, apparently, but I don't know what that means. So you want to know how they decide how many guns you get in a salute? Really? Yeah. I think we should salute everyone who gets to 90, to be honest with you, but there you go. I'd be a lot like bonfire night every night. Okay, let's try and some gun salutes. How do they decide who gets. What is that? That's the question, right. And why 21 and 41? We've done this before, but the answer is lost in the mists of time. And it's quite timely today, isn't it? Zero. 345-606-0973 Paul is in Northol. Paul, question or answer? Question, please. James. Yes. Are there any other mammals in the world, in the animal kingdom that apart from the polar bear that don't drink water, how do you know the polar bear doesn't drink water. Well, I rep. And I was visiting a customer the other day, and in the waiting room there was like those little building blocks to keep kids occupied. And there was a educational poster thing on the wall that gave a lot of facts and information about various animals from all around the world, where they live, what they do and all that, blah, blah. And the interesting fact about the polar bear was that it doesn't drink water. What does it do instead? I'm guessing it might eat ice. Oh, well, that would still count as drinking water in my book, Paul. Well, it didn't say only at ice. It said it doesn't drink water. I can't clarify that. That's only my opinion. Yeah, fair enough. So we wanted. Are there any other man? I'm just trying to think. And it must be, mustn't there? What? I mean, they get all their moisture from plant life or from, you know, the food that they eat, but they don't go to a stream or a book or whatever and drink water. Stream or a brook. I love it. You're getting all poetic now, boy. Having a lovely drink from a lovely brook. Or a babbling stream. Yeah, or a bowl. A babbling brook, no less. Okay, we'll find out. I mean, if it turns out you're wrong about the polar bear, mate. Yeah, we're going to have to have words, you realize that. Don't blame me. Blame the company that printed the poster. Blame the posters. I don't think dolphins drink water. Ah, good. But. But they must. They must ingest water in some. Well, why am I trying to answer? I'm rubbish at animal questions. Okay. Are there any other mammals that don't drink water? And brackets. Is. Is it true or was Paul. I don't know. Got out of bed too early? Is it true that polar bears. Caveat. Nice play. Nine after twelve. Simon is in Wembley. Simon. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Hello. It's a question. James. I was wondering, on the queen's birthday honors list or the New Year's honours list, how do they decide who gets what? If one person gets an ObE or somebody else gets an MBE or CBE? I want to laser in on this question because, I mean, the boring answer is an honours committee decides. But that's not what you mean. You're more interested in criteria, aren't you? You want to know what's the difference between an MBE, an OBE. Really? Yeah. I mean, why would they give you an MBE and not an ObE? For example, they won't give me either, actually, Simon, as things stand. But hanging in for a knighthood, well, that adds to your question as well, isn't it? I mean, where are the thresholds? Because sometimes you see someone get an OBE, anything they should have got, didn't. Ronnie Corbett. He passed away, but I was away at the time. He died without getting a knighthood, didn't he? Ronnie Corbett? Yeah. He didn't get a knighthood. He should have got a honors. He should have got a night. You see what I mean? It was an MBE. Why didn't he get what's bigger, an Obe or an MBA? An ob is bigger than an MBE. Yeah, I think it is. Yeah. I love that question. I don't know. Maybe it's a secret. Maybe they can tell us. But they'd have to kill us. So where are the thresholds, the criteria, the distinctions? Because some of the people who've got MBE seem to be much more impressive people than some of the people who've got obes. And some of the people who haven't got anything seem to be a lot more impressive than some of the people who've got knighthoods. A lot of politicians get knighthoods just for hanging in there long enough. Like Alan Duncan with his lovely comments the other day about us. Because we're all low achievers, because we don't avoid taxes. Got a knighthood for his trouble. Rob's in Maidstone. Rob, question or answer? Question, please. Joanna, what was the first recording of people clapping to show their appreciation? When did that start? Do you mean the first recorded instance of it or the first audio recording of the sound? When did it all start? When did we start clapping to show appreciation? Just a little. Yeah. Love it. So that was it, James? It was a case of when seals. Seals do it, but not to show appreciation. Is that not to show appreciation? No, I don't think so. The origins of clapping. I wonder if there are any cultures where it's a sign of disapproval. Absolutely. I like that question. I shall leave it on the board. But it may be that the answer is lost in the hists of time, lost in the mists of time, or lost in history. Not both, Rob. Thank you. Twelve after twelve. So I like the MBE question and the gun salute question because they're quite similar, actually. How do they decide how many? Why 21? Who makes the decision? How is the decision made about how many guns constitute a salute on a day like today, when a 41 gun salute has been undertaken at Hyde Park? 41 guns. Why not 100? Why not 27? Who decided on 41? Does it refer back to some ancient battle or something? Am I sounding incredibly ignorant by not knowing? Maybe I'm pretending not to know so that the questioner gets a fair crack of the whip. And similarly, where are the distinctions, the lines between MBE and Obe? Zero 345-606-0973 is it true that polar bears are the only mammal not to drink water? Zero 345-606-0973 and when did we start clapping? And indeed, why did we start clapping? What was the origin of clapping? As a sign of approval? If you can answer any of those, you will get on. Yeah, Kevin has sent me. I might have to get Paul back because Kevin has tweeted me. I don't normally involve Twitter on mystery hour, but Kevin's tweeted me a picture of a polar bear drinking a baby polar bear. Apparently, to all intents and purposes, drinking water. I should have found out more about this poster. Where was he? What sort of customer was he visiting? Who's have a poster up about polar bears? What the hell is going on? And other questions. Luke's in Horsham. Luke, question or answer? I've got an answer to the polar bear question, actually. Go on, man. So there are other animals. I mean, I don't know. You know, there's doubt over whether polar bears do drink water or not. But there are mammals that don't drink water and they are dolphins and whales. Really? Which. Yeah, because, I mean, they live in salt water and they can't drink that. Good point. So they all get all the water content they need from the food they eat. Maybe the same is true of polar bears. Yeah, it could be. Or ice. Well, is eating ice not the same as drinking water? Yeah, I guess so. But you're not qualified to comment on that. Have you heard? Yeah. Whether eating ice is the same is biologically equivalent to drinking water. So when they say that polar bears don't drink water, do they? Can't mean they eat ice, because as soon as the ice goes in your mouth, it starts melting and it turns into water. This is slightly obtuse avenue of conversation when you said there's some dispute. No, I know, and I'm sorry, but it's my show. When you say there's some dispute over the polar bear question, is that something you were previously aware of, Luke? Because this is all news to me. No, I mean, I didn't know that they don't drink water, but it does make sense if all the water around them is frozen apart from the salty seawater. Yeah, that's true. So it could be that polar bears do the same thing as dolphins and whales and get all of their moisture from the fish. From the fish. What are your qualifications, Luke? On the dolphin and whales issue? My wife and I binge watch Assambra documentaries. It's living the dream. Can't say farther than that. It's only this, which, of course, is another question in need of an answer. Why do we do that? Why do we do that? Why do we do that that we just did? In honor of Luke's brilliant answer? I don't know. Do you know? If you know? 345-606-0973 how'd you get an MBE? And how do they decide how many guns you get in a salute? It's 1215. This is Lec. It's 19 minutes after twelve. If you're a fan of my box of trolls, by the way, the curious constituency of characters who spend all day taking to social media to sort of try to be horrible to people they claim they never did. Listen to some of my favorite people on Twitter. If, like me, you are a huge fan of them, then the one I've just retweeted from my app, Mister James Ob account will tickle you no end. I digress slightly. Questions that need answers. MBE and Obe. How do they decide? How do they decide what gong you get? There you go. That's. How do they decide what gong you get? Why do we clap stuff and gun salutes? The queen got 41 today. What does that actually mean? V is in harpenden. V. Question or answer is a question. Please, James, carry on. V, do you like chili food? I do. Chili spicy food? Yeah. Chili spicy food. So do I like. Do I like spicy chili food? Yeah. Yes, I do. So, question. Hang on a minute. Is everyone else asleep? V asked me whether. Thank you. There you go. Qualifications? I am me. That was easy. V, I don't know if you've quite got into the spirit of mystery, but you're gonna have to come back next week if you've got another question. I do, but can I ask it now? You're only allowed one v, but it's the real one. That was not really. Okay, got a round of applause, mate. It's gone in the archive. Go on, then. What's your. What's your. What's your real question? The real question would be on, you know, they say. They say you got chili scale. So this food is hotter than this food. And this, like, habanaro is chillier than the ghost or whatever the scales are. There's a name for that. There's a name for the scale, isn't there? There is, yeah. I forget that. I just. So how do they. How do they measure that? Because I had a ghost chili the other week and it was supposed to be the hottest chili since. Scoville. It's the scope. Scoville or Scoville. Scoville. Scoville scale. Scoville. Scoville. Measure it. Because. Because the ghost chili, which I had the other week, was not very spicy compared to an ordinary green chili that I found. So it just made me wonder, how do they measure it? What's the scales? What's the variables in it, who test it? I like that. Your level is different. Mine. So. Yeah, it is. Exactly. So, I mean, how do they do it? The Scoville test, it's all. It's an organoleptic test, I think, isn't it, V? Yeah. Got no idea whether it is an organoleptic test or not. Well, that just flew over my head. Yeah. Good for you. I like that. A good, plausible nod. Yes, James. Whatever you say, James. I don't know how that is the answer to that. I could remember the name of it, but quite how it works is odd, because you can eat the same curry. My friend Sam, when we used to share a flat together, he would eat a far. Is it a far? P h double al. He'd order the curry and he'd eat that really comfortably and I would put one bit in my mouth and my ears would blow off. Seriously. And yet it was the same curry. So how do they do it? How do you have an objective measure? Maybe you don't. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. 22 minutes after twelve is the time. Chilis clapping gongs and guns Nick's in Southgate. Nick, question or answer? It's a question. Cheer up, Nick. I'm sorry, mate, I'm stuck in traffic, that's all. That's right. I'll keep you company. What you. What you. Give him a round of applause. Give him a. Hang on, stay there. Give him a round of applause. There you go. Fantastic. Thanks. Very much better. That's. What's your question? Okay. The mechanical shark in jaws. The film Jaws, yeah, on set. They. If I'm not mistaken, they named it Bruce. And my question is, why Bruce? Why did they name it Bruce? Does anyone. Where did you get the information from that they named it Bruce? Because I've heard it many times over since the 1970s. Why? I mean, so why did they call it Bruce as opposed to anything else? Yeah. Why Bruce? Why would they call mechanical shot? Why would I name it brutal Bruce? Why? Well, I got to call it something. What's wrong with Bruce? I don't know. You told me. Well, I mean, would you be ringing me if it had been called John as well? You'd say apparently it was called John. Why did I call it John? Oh, okay. Why? Of course you would. Yeah. So why? Well, probably, I don't know, some bloke called Bruce involved in the film. They thought it was funny. Bruce the shark. Shall we try? Are you yanking my chain? Am I falling for some. Am I falling for some sophisticated radio trap here, Nick? No, not at all. Are you sure? Do you promise? Well, you wouldn't tell me if I was, would you? That would undermine the entire nature of your sophisticated radio trap. I promise. All I want to know is why did they name it Bruce? Please. You're on. Thank you. That's very nice of you. Great gear and I hope the traffic clears up soon. 23 minutes after twelve is the time. Why did they call the mechanical shark in jaws? Bruce? If I fall in for some joke there I've had. It's only ever happened to me once when I can't remember why. Years ago this, there was a paleontologist in the studio and we were talking about dinosaurs and I was short of questions. I've never made this mistake since. So I asked you to help with questions. I'm never going to do that again. And someone sent something in saying something to do with dinosaurs being burrowing animals because their remains are always found underground. I can't remember exactly what the question was, but it was built upon that premise. And I asked one of the senior palaeontologists from the Natural History museum about burrowing dinosaurs. Obviously were burrowing animals because their remains are always found underground. And just before I got to the end of the sentence, if I've just done that again with you, Nick, I can't see how I could have done mechanical shark called bruce. There'll be trouble. Lewis is in suburban. Lewis. Question or answer? I've got a question. I'm also an apology to make to you. Actually, James, do the question first. No, do the apology first and then I'll decide whether or not you're going to be allowed to ask the question. Well, what I'm doing is. A few weeks back, James, I was a bit unwell. I called you to mystery out and gave an answer to a question about first class and second class post. Yes. And it was a mess. It was a mess. James, your answer was a disgrace. You let down. You let me down. You let mystery out down. But most of all, Lewis, you let yourself down. Exactly. No, that's it. Apology accepted. Didn't we clear it up before the end of that week's show? Yeah, we did. Someone gave an answer. Mine was right. It just wasn't accurate. So I revoke my round of applause. Look at that. You keep that round of applause, Lewis. Seriously, mate, as a mark of your honesty and integrity. Kind of you, James. It's my pleasure entirely. Now, what's your question? My question is, where does the, like, the term the real McCoy come from? Oh, I like that. I've never done that before. I was just thinking. I double checked and it's not there. I was stunned. Well, it's not on the mystery hour archive. You've even done your home. You're becoming my favorite of a mystery. Our caller, this. You know, you apologize for bad answers, you. You revoke rounds of applause and you check the archive before ringing in. Exactly. I've got ticked your box, haven't I, Jones? It's just getting ridiculous. It's practically a bromance. Luis, you're on. Let me get a round of applause. This would have been great. Spoilt it at the end there. 26 minutes after twelve. Don't be greedy. Liam's in Harpington. Liam, question or answer? Answer. About the 21 gun salute. Yes, I remember this at school. It's one of the few facts of naval history that I kind of remember. And it was. It was. It's to do with, like, the man of warships coming back to port after a battle. It's about rearmament. So basically, they come back and fire the rest of the load that was on the ship and the port that they were going to would fire three for everyone that they fired because of the nature of the celebration of coming back safely. And it added up to 21. And that was just one of those things that we were taught, I was just told is a fact. I like it. So it's a way of sort of showing your intentions as you come into a harbor. Yeah, because it changes depending on the event. Like, different route, a different amount of rounds are shot and the number increases depending on. Because it decided to be a salute to the fallen as well, depending on rank, you'd get more guns, hence the queen's got an extra 20 and things like that. And if there's a country that is surrendering, like we, or a country that would wonder, by an armament, like a gentleman's agreement, they would have to fire a safe range as well, to show that they were disarmed. And that was a celebration. They would fire how many they had and we would know how much, you know, damage we'd caused. But also this whole roman thing. Instead of giving me an applause, the Romans clicked. Instead of clapped. You're not really supposed to do that, Liam. Keeping it sweet. But you're not really. You're not. Whoa, whoa, whoa. You're not really supposed to veer off into another answer there. That's a bit cheeky. That's a bit of a liberty. In fact, it's a bit cheeky. I went in bold, didn't I? Went in bold. You went in very bold. And, I mean, we're bantering now, but behind the banter, I'm actually deciding whether or not you're going to get the round of applause that you probably deserve on the grounds of your infringement. Your infringement of mystery, our regulations. I will click up myself all afternoon. That's fine. Is it possible to ask a question and be boulder still? Absolutely not. Well, of course it is, yes. If you ring in next week. Brilliant. Round of applause for Liam. Quick, before I change my mind. I like that on the gun salutes. Of course, it must be naval. To be honest, you haven't got that single sentence answer. Why 21? Why 41? Because it will be according to rank, but the origin of the practice to communicate from ship to shore. Makes perfect sense. Mark's in Walthamstone. Mark, question or answer and question? James. Good afternoon. Hello. Science fiction, sir. Well, you can't do science fiction. Mystery hour is a celebration of fact and knowledge. Okay, science fact. I'm glad we cleared that up. Would a nuclear missile destroy a meteorite in the vacuum of space? I don't think it would. Why not? Because there's no air to make a blast, is there? But it would blow. I mean, it would be blown to smithereens. How? Well, no shockwave is there? I don't know. Have you? Hang on a minute. This is mystery hour. It's not ringing. Ringing? Answer your own question and then show off in a slightly nerdy fashion hour. Sorry. That's all right. That's why I'm asking you, because you know all these things. I don't know anything about anything like that. You remind me of a bloke who used to ringing all the time, asking who'd win a fight between a lion and a bear. A bear? Qualifications? Common sense, I think. I don't think so. I see. You seen Baloo and Shere Khan go at it together. You know Shere Khan's gonna kill Baloo eventually. Unless Bagheera wades in and helps out anyway. James, are you gonna answer my question? I can't answer your question. Would a nuclear missile destroy a meteorite? I mean, does it matter how big the meteorite is? Does the. Does the missile have to be nuclear? No. I mean, all these science fiction films about blowing up meteors in space. I don't think it's true. All right, well, what would happen. What would happen if a missile hit a meteorite, then, mark, do you think he. Go, fuck. That was ph u t. All right, before everyone piles onto. Before everyone piles into Ofcom. I'll leave it on the board, mate. But frankly, if you get a meaningful answer, I'll give you the money myself. It's 12:30 you're listening to mystery hour. James O'Brien and Mark on LBC. Here's Rupert Barty with the headlines. The queen has been meeting well wishers near Windsor Castle to mark her 90 c. 1234 is the time. Questions that need answers. Why was the mechanical shark in jaws called Bruce? What's the origins of the phrase the real McCoy? How do they measure the hotness of chilis? Why do we clap? And how do they decide what gong you get? All of those need answers. I've had one answer in from a greengrocers on Chelsea Green. Goes by the name of Andreas. He says the heat of chilies is measured by playing the chili game with junior members of staff, seeing how much laughter is generated coupled with redness of said staff member. That's not official. I'm afraid we're not going definitive on that, even. Even though that is for the best. Green grocery in London. Kevin is in north Finchley. Question or answer? Kevin. It's Santa. James. Carry on. And it's. Excuse me. That's regarding the nickname for the mechanical shark and jaws. Bruce, was it. Was that true? Was it called Bruce? Yes, it is. The mechanical shark is nicknamed Bruce because it's named after Steven Spielberg's accountant. When they were making the film jaws in whatever it was late 1974, and when they were on location filming, they had terrible problems with the mechanical shark. It didn't work. It didn't do what it was supposed to do. And the production accountant, whose name was Bruce, kept saying to Steven Spielberg, you can't spend any more money. You can't spend any more money. This isn't going to work. And eventually, obviously, the film was success and it did work and they decided to name the Shark Bruce after the accountant. Definitely accountant. And not lawyer. Oh, I'm sure it was the accountant. I'm getting a lot of love for the lawyer on Twitter and email. Okay, Pete and Preston. Pete and Preston, Spielberg's lawyer. Ben Miller, Spielberg's lawyer. Oh, dear, oh, dear. But either way, you're going to get around this. His lawyer or his accountant. And the way commercial law works, they'd often be fulfilling similar roles on that kind of gig, wouldn't they? I would have thought so. On acquisition that size. Yeah, yeah. Qualifications, Kevin? Massive Jaws fan. Massive Jaws fan. Fair enough, fair enough. Probably about 15 times when it came out, one week after the other. Did you ever see jaws three d? Oh, God, no. No, no. You're not that massive a Jaws fan, then, pal, frankly, are you? The first one is the definitive. Well, clearly, yeah. But if you were a massive Jaws fan, I think it's reasonable to expect you might have gone to one of the sequels. I did. I went to jaws two, jaws three, jaws four I think I probably saw on tv. But the first one is the. Of course it is. I mean, very, very few examples of the first film in a series being surpassed by subsequent ones. Although many of us probably prefer Empire strikes back to the first Star wars film. Round of applause for Kevin. Thank you. Thank you, James. You're very welcome. The single most disappointing experience of my childhood. Jaws 3D. Well, that's obviously not true. It's a little bit of hyperbole, but. But, my God, that was disappointing. There's one moment in it where the three did the rest of it. You just sat there. My mama said, we saw a 3d film in Blackpool when I was a little girl, so it wasn't even new. So we all thought Jaws 3D was going to be the most amazing experience. Absolute rubbish. Joe's in Greenwich. Joe, question or answer? Hi, James. Question, please carry on. We need some answers. Joe. Come on, mate, get your thinking. What's going on? Sorry, Joe. Sorry. I was wondering, how does the. How did the x become the symbol for, like, the kiss? It's nice as well. Yeah, that's a nice question as well. I mean, x were for people who couldn't. I mean, it is pre literacy. When you. X marks the spot, you'd put an x instead of a signature. But how did that transmogrify into the universal? Is it universal? Does it work in other countries? I think. I think so. I mean, I think so. I'm not sure. I shall. I shall leave that on the board. Why? X for kisses. X for kisses. No. Thank you very much, sir. Lovely question. 1237 is the time. If you can answer any of the questions we've already got. Why is x for kisses? Origins of the real McCoy, chilly scales. How do they measure the hotness of chilies? Why do we clap? And how do they decide what gongs you get? And that silly question about meteorites and missiles that Mark asked. Professor Martin Smith is here, professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Professor, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, professor. It's about the. Actually, I don't think it's quite so. Silly question about nuclear missiles destroying meteors. Oh, all right. Sorry. That's fine. Conventional explosions are just fast burning, which need oxygen. But nuclear explosions don't need oxygen. They are created by splitting heavy, very heavy metals, like plutonium or uranium, or by fusing the nuclei of hydrogen, which is a totally different process to burning. So you did. So even a nuclear explosion will destroy a meteor in space. Qualifications? I used to work for the Ministry of Defence. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. And on science fiction films when they blow up the Death Star or something like that. If people were living there, there'd be an oxygen supply inside, so you would get a more conventional explosion. Sometimes you get that on top of it. If. Yes, yes. If there's oxygen inside, which there must be if people are living there. So any spaceship or space station is going to have an oxygen supply in it, isn't it? Indeed, yes. Oh, great stuff. Well played. Well played, professor. Haven't heard from Professor Hal for a couple of weeks. I think possibly he's in danger of losing his crown. Terry is in Gravesend. Terry, question or answer? Carry on. The one with the slap in at the. Sorry. The clap in. Yes. As far as I can remember. And I've got to go back quite a long way now, far as I can remember in the Roman Senate when they were a very good speaker, a man. Very good speech. Yes. There's a pat him on the back. Those who couldn't reach the speaker just to clap their hands instead make the same sort of noise. So pat on the back, obviously. Kind of even. They'd probably even do that in sort of monkeys. Probably pat each other on the back. No, no. There's a mark of affection or approval. Can't reach him for. I might not personally know them. But you're familiar with. Yeah. You can't reach for a pat on the back. So you give the old. You stayed. Yeah. Qualifications. It just makes basically memory. Long while ago, I heard it somewhere, probably at school. I can't remember now, but something like that. Not very good, I'm afraid. No, you've done it now. Tell. Yeah. That's hardly what you'd call definitive, Terry. Yeah, well, rum isn't it? Goes like a long time as well. It's got you what you've got here. You've got, I mean, to my opinion, Premier League plausibility with your answer. But vanirama conference qualifications. There you go. So it's a question of what's going to. I'm going to let the others decide. All right? I'm going to leave this one in the team's decision. Does Terry get a round of applause? Extremely plausible. Almost certainly. Right. Very paltry contributions, qualifications. Let's see. Thank you very much. There you go. I'll give him a whole one. Give him a whole one. Seriously. Arthur Clapp sounds like a sort of coal man from the olden days off the Clapp fishmonger. Carry on, Terry. Well played, Dave. Chichester. Question or answer? Answers. Go on, then. Nervous about this one. Blimey. Go on. The phone lines. Rubbish, Dave. It's our fault. We're trying. We'll try and get that fixed up. What happens is, for people who get irritated by this and have never actually produced a radio phone in program, what happens is when people ring in, their phone line is fine and then they get put through and the phone line is not fine. So it's nobody's fault. It's not Dave's fault, it's not Caroline's fault, it's not my fault, it's nobody's fault. The only circumstances in which you would blame someone for being silly is if you speak to someone on the phone. I like to talk. Right, yeah. We'll put you straight through. But guess what? Yeah, we don't do that here. It's amazing. Who needs reminding of that? Occasionally, 1242 is the time Charles is in Stockport. Charles, question. Whereabouts in Stockport, Charles? You ask me that every time. You're the naughty child that used to go to the baths. That was it, yeah. Toasted tea cakes at Glossop baths. Every Saturday morning with my late father. Happy days. Question or answer, Charles? It's an answer on the chilies. Oh, good. Go on. It's a purely subjective measurement and it is Scoville units. Basically what you do, you mix the weighed amount of chili with water. I think. I think there's some salt in the water. Yeah. So you've got a sort of a. It's not exactly a solution, but it's a mixture. And then basically, you dilute it and you keep tasting it. You have a panel of people that taste it until it's diluted so much that you can't detect the chili in it. Oh, hello. No, I'm here. I was making a noise of discovery. That was. That was me. It wasn't a fault on your phone when you get to that. So if you've got to dilute it, say, a million times before you can't taste the chili, it's given a water the amount of dilution. Some people are suggesting they might use sugar as well as water or instead of water, but it's the point at which you can't detect the chilli anymore. And. Oh, I get. So the more water you need, the stronger the chilli is or the more diluting. Yeah. You would probably actually do it the opposite way around in a practical. Because you would taste something that's been over diluted first, wouldn't you? And then. And then as you increase. Oh, yeah, you would suddenly get the. I can detect the chili, because otherwise, if you detect. If you had something first with a lot of chili in it, you know, it's going to be more difficult, isn't it, when you dilute it? So, qualifications? I've grown chilis. Really? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Scorpion chilies was the last one and then. That was pretty hardcore, was it? Yeah, that was hot. I think there's a hotter one now. What do you dishes do you prepare? What are your favorite chili dishes? All sorts of stuff. Some mexican type salsas and stuff like that. Make a sauce. Make a sauce, chuck it in a chilli. Made sauces with them as well, that you can just dip on things, Charles, you live and learn. Wouldn't have got you, wouldn't you? Wouldn't have got many chillies at Glossop baths back in the 1970s. I tell you, the world's moved on. Round of applause for Charles. Thank you, mate. Matt's entangly Tangley. What a wonderfully sounding place. Question or answer, Matt. What? Well, it wasn't. It was an answer to that question, but the man before me just answered it about the heat scale, the Scoville heat scale on the chilies. Well, that's a bit awkward. I know, I know. I've been waiting on line. Did he not say. Did he not get anything a bit wrong? Usually you only get put through if you're going to improve upon the previous answer or add to it or something like that. No, he got it pretty much bang on it. Yeah. I'm gonna have to give you a round of applause. What are your qualifications for knowing this? I own two Thai restaurants and we use a lot of chilies. Oh, I'm just back from Thailand. Ah, fantastic. It is. I had a fantastic time. But we do worry about finding really good, authentic Thai cuisine back in Blighty. Ah, well, I can help you out there, clearly. You can. Where about to your restaurant? Well, one's in Tangley, which is mid Hampshire. Yes. Called the Fox Inn. Go on. And the other one's called the Greyhound in autumn, which is near Stockbridge. There you go. You weren't expecting that. Not only do you get a free advert, you get a round of applause as well. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Oh, you're very welcome. God, it's an outbreak of happiness and love. What sort of phoning radio is this from the LBC travel center. Good afternoon, I'm LBC 1249 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, just to veer out of remarkable intervention in the London mayoral election. I mean, truly remarkable by one of my favourite journalists, Peter Oborn, which I have a feeling you'll be hearing more about during the course of the afternoon. Theo Usherwood, political editor here, scooped the world yesterday on a mayoral issue and ended up giving David Cameron almost before he'd sat down at prime minister's question. Some of the stories that Theo Usherwood unearthed yesterday were providing quite considerable embarrassment for the prime minister. But it'd be interesting to see how the media that has nailed its colors to the mast fairly strongly on that election copes with the curious wrinkle unearthed by our political editor. More on that throughout the day on LBC and more from me on it tomorrow. Terry is in Croydon. Terry, question or answer? Answer. Come on, then. I understand it to be they were a manufacturer of distillers, Canada, and during the prohibition, they used to ship, you know, stuff across the border. And because it was made properly, it was much better than the stuff they used to make in bathtubs and, you know, steel vats in the states. So it just became, the people who had a drink said, oh, this is, you know, the real McCoy. This is good stuff, as in scottish whiskey, but made in Canada rather than. It would have been bourbon, maybe, or the canadian version, like, what are your qualifications? I think I read that in an in flight magazine many years ago. In flight magazines. Inflight magazines are getting better and better, aren't they? Oh, so this was back in the days when they were rubbish. I'd have been delighted with that nugget of information. Seriously, it could be wrong. You know, I'm not saying this is definitive, but that's my. That's what I. There was also a boxer people, because one of my correspondents has actually looked this up in Brewers Dictionary of phrase and fable. But I can't. I can't use that myself. What I can tell you is that I think your answer is the received wisdom. It probably originated in Scotland, but then got exported to America and Canada, where the real stuff, the stuff like the scottish whiskey, was called the real McCoy, and the american or native stuff like your bourbons, was not the real McCoy. I can believe that. It could have been. It could have exported. It could have been exported from Scotland. Well, it would be probably. I'm going to give you a round of applause, a lovely answer. Oh, hang on, I've got another answer on the other line, but I've probably already. No, you stay there, Terry. No, no, no, Terry, mate, seriously, it's my party. You're just as welcome as the other fella. You stay there. We'll see what's going on. Mark's in Plumstead. Mark, what have you got? Hello. Hello, James. Yeah, I've got a different answer. It's based on a gentleman called Elijah McCoy. He was an american engineer, and he invented a way of lubricating train engines called the oil dripping cup. But unfortunately, being a poor person, there was lots of knockoffs at the time, and they used to fail a lot. So when people got one which actually worked, they used to call it the real McCoy. And I got that from a program about black inventors I watched on the History channel. So that's pretty. I mean, that comes from the 18 hundreds. So that's when the gentleman made this invention. And that's why I heard myself. So who you give the cap to is down to you, obviously. Well, I'm going to give it to the other fellow, because although your explanation does appear in Elijah McCoy's biography at the National Inventors hall of Fame. And that's not good enough. No, because it never appeared in print anywhere until 1966. Okay, yeah, but they're not going to print it in the 18 hundreds, are they? Why not? I mean, surely someone would have written it down. Well, obviously somebody knew it then, didn't they? But, you know. All right, stay there. Terry, do you mind sharing? Because I don't. I don't want to cause any ill will, because it's all about lubrication either way, isn't it? Well, very nice. Oh, look at that. You see? Fantastic, Terry. Right, in that. That case, I'm going to give. I'm going to give four sevenths of this round of applause to Terry and three sevenths to you, Mark, because he got in with the pun at the end. All right, 50 50 or no deal. Oh, blimey, Terry, what do you reckon? I'm not bothered. Just play the round of applause. You can fight over it. 1254, because that is the third answer, the third point of the triangle on the real McCoy. Is it referred to a boxer? But a lot of these phrases, there is no definitive answer. But brewers Dictionary of phrase and fable, who, frankly, should have put me on commission many years ago, provide interesting guides to these issues. This, says Adam, is the most I've learned in any mystery. However. There you go. That's one promise kept. Have you had a laugh out loud moment now, Adam? I've had a few. Professor Hal is here. Press. Hal, I'm getting reports of complaints of you not getting on enough. What has prompted you to ring in this week? Professor Smith getting the question I should have answered. Mate, you've got to let this go. Seriously. It's really. It's not a good look, this academic sort of infighting that you bring on every time Professor Smith gets in before you. No, but he's confused. Unicorns with narwhals, maybe. Go on, then. Meteorites and missiles. All right. Okay. So the first bits, right, you don't need air to have any sort of nuclear event. Remember, he worked at the Ministry of Defence. You used to be a copper. I worked in Sainsbury's as well. All right, carry on. But the point is, I gave a lecture about it this very week about Trident nuclear missiles. 32 trillion, trillion watts of power. But the big thing about a nuclear blast is the superheated air, that massive, massive wind which blows everything out. And that's what you're not going to get in space. Now, we're not talking about dirty bombs with uranium, because you can't really make one. We're talking about nuclear fusion, which is actually the power of the sun. If the sun can work as a star in space, then so can a nuclear device. But I don't think it's going to have the same blast effect. And it's going to make things worse, because instead of having one big meteorite, going to have lots and lots of smaller ones and scatter the damage across the earth. So it wasn't a silly question at all. Well, I've apologized to Mark. That's all he's going to get. And I've given Professor Smith a round of applause. I'm going to give you one as well. But I'm not retracting his because I'm not getting caught up in academic infighting. All right? 100 million degrees, mate. Yeah, whatevs. Are you better now? Feeling better now? Much better. There you go. She's your students. I can't. I can't send you into the lecture hall with all this. All this bitterness and resentment festering within you. I'm glad that we've managed to lance that particular boil. Still need a few other answers, don't we? We've done the real mccoy. What about the origins of kisses? We've done the chili, we've done the clapping. The only thing we haven't done is the gongs. Who decides whether you get an MB or an Obe? Sheila Fogarty's up next. She'll be getting one of them soon enough. Julian is in Thornton Heath. Julian, question or answer? I'm Sir James. Carry on. Yes, good afternoon. It's. I'm second time caller and I'm still shaking with nerves. Right, mate. I've been here twelve years and I'm a mess as well, so go on. It's why we use the letter x for kisses. I believe it's from. It's from the times before we used the modern Alphabet. Obviously, the Saxons and Vikings used runes. They carved runes onto sticks and stone. Straight lines. Yes. And their letter x is a love rune and each of their runes has a name and the x is called Gifu, ie gift. So if you were carving something, say a love rune on a stick or something, you want to put it under a girl that you fancied, pillow, you'd have x's on it. And that would hopefully, you know, like, it's not witchcraft, but it's still spells and magic and everything. And that's how I believe that we get the letter x because they would use it as a love room, you know, carving rooms. I've got. That's brilliant. The problem I've got is apparently we did do this a few years ago and I haven't checked the answer we got then, which I gave a round of applause for, but I'm going to like yours. Yeah. I can't prove it, but it's just like a supposition. Educated. What are your. And your qualifications are a knowledge of ancient languages, then? No, I'm a layman, but I study sort of Sax Roman, saxon, viking history and mythology. It's a passion of mine, reading about, you know, ancient british and european history. So I'm going to give you a round of applause Julian, I'm giving a round of applause for two reasons. Number one, I think you've got this right. And number two, you sound like an absolute star, mate. Thank you for calling in this week. Wonderful. No, wonderful to you. I keep saying about learning stuff. You see, that's one of the areas of history I shall be exploring further when I retire. And don't say, the sooner the better. All right, that's it for me for another day. We'll be doing it all again tomorrow morning from 10. May I just take this opportunity to wish a very, very happy birthday to anybody who's celebrating their birthday today. Here's Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much, James. Now, from three, I want to talk about the fact that the government has announced what it is describing as the largest resettlement program for children in the world from the Syria region. 3000 children coming to Britain to be resettled. Are you proud of that decision? From two? Gps are being given a substantial chunk of new money to improve what they offer. What does your GP need to offer that it doesn't? Remember? They are the front line. They're the ones who are meant to keep us out of hospital. From one. Yes. The birth date. The Queen is 90 today. In the Commons this morning, the Prime Minister said this. We are uniquely blessed in our country. Her Majesty's service is extraordinary and it is a joy for us all to celebrate, to cherish and to honor. Should the end of her reign prompt a conversation about the end of the monarchy?