Will tidal power effect the moon?

Mystery hour with James O'Brien. I'm getting into the habit of saying this every day. It's going to become another blessed catchphrase, isn't it? But, um, how can it be 12:05 already? We only just sat down. This is getting insane. Honestly, I live in my life and fast forward if they stop talking like this. And you better keep the war and be mystery hour is here. We didn't do one last week because we were absolutely engulfed in Brexit related shenanigans. There was a realistic chance, I suppose, that it could have happened again this week. So make the most of it while you can. If you have a question that needs an answer, give me a ring zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. The way it works is relatively straightforward, but if you are new to it, then it probably needs a little word of explanation. It's like the radio equivalent of those newspaper and magazine features where a reader writes in with a question. It could be anything. Who, why, what, where, when? Whither, wherefore, even the occasional whence. Why do we do this? What's the origin of that? Where does that come from? When x happens, why does y follow? Who, why, what, where, when? What happened? What resulted? What's going on? And then someone else will ring in with the answer. Try not to be boring. Although obviously that's very much in the ear of the beholder. And I shall keep an eye out, because Sam and Beth are both relatively new to Sam. I think it might be the first one he's ever done. So the chances of him having an encyclopedic knowledge of questions that have previously been dealt with on Mystery Hour is pretty slim. You, of course, can consult the archive that resides at LBC Dot co dot UK to see whether the inquiry that's popped into your pretty little head has been previously punted on mystery Hour. Six minutes after twelve is the time if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, get in touch in all the usual ways. And then, if your qualifications to answer a question are unbelievably apposite. So if, in other words, we're answering a question about toasters and you invented the toaster, you will get what we call a Ray Liotta. It's got nothing to do with otters. That is how Rayleigh Otter, the star of Goodfellas and Field of dreams and sundry other cinematic entertainments. That is how he actually pronounces his name, not as you had previously announced it, which was Rayleigh Otter Ray le. Otter Ray. I don't know. Anyway, Ray Liotta is. He's the man who, in field of dream, says, if you build it, they will come. And that was one of the first slogans to emerge from this so called program. So we got the bloke who actually does the voiceover in the actual film when he came in to be interviewed by Steve Allen. Guess who Steve Allen's interviewing at the moment? Am I allowed to say, Beth, am I allowed to say, has he been talking about it on air? It's only Sir Clifford of Richard up for an in conversation with. Coming up soon with Steve Allen here on LBC. Not a lot of people get to have a proper sit down conversation with the patron saint of pop. But Steve Allen, of course, has accrued such astonishing levels of trust and affection from all corners of the showpiece community over the years that Sir Clifford has elected to speak to Steve today. I know this because Sheila Fogarty just tweeted, you'll never guess who just walked past my desk. Only Cliff Richard. That wasn't an impression, that was just an attempt to convey the excitement that is clearly underlying her tweet. But I digress. Seven minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour is upon us and I think the best thing to do now is just for you to listen. If you haven't worked out how it works and decide whether or not you're going to join in. Yeah. Should we crack on? Okay. I'll say the phone number. Whenever I've got a phone line free. Sabre is in Sheffield. Sabre. Question or answer? Yeah, it's a question. I think it's a brilliant question. Because of Brexit. At what point did we become great? I think Great Britain. Who? When and how? I know why, but I don't know when. And I mean, it's actually quite a disappointing answer because. Why do you sound so downcast, sabre? Well, I just thought you might reject me. No, I never reject you. No, I mean, that's up to Beth. If Beth puts you through, I can. I can moan and complain and tease and threaten to fire people, but I can't actually reject you once you've been put through on the switchboard. Oh, thanks a lot, pal. It is. I presume it's to do with the norman invasion, but I'm not 100% sure on that. All that the Grande in Grande Britannia means is that we are not Brittany, the french province. Right. I thought it was an adjective to describe how great we are. No, no, mate, that's another Brexit delusion. The Great in Great Britain simply means that we're bigger than Brittany. But I think some people have hijacked it. I just want to kind of understand about what you do now. You do now. So presumably after the norman conquest, when the name of Britain and Brittany were so similar, they had to, because they were all speaking French, they had to. They had to distinguish between Brittany, as in a chunk of France, what is now France and Britain, which they just conquered, and so they went for grand Britannia. So just to distinguish between our Britain and their Britain Britannia, Petit Britannia and Grand Britannia, I thought, okay, fine. It's not. I mean, it's a disappointing answer because it gives the light of the notion that Britain's great in. I mean, when they say putting the Great back into Great Britain, they don't add in brackets, just in case you still get it mixed up with Brittany in France, which is why it's. I was looking for something more exciting. I know you were. I know you were. I feel like I've given you a, you know, a present that was all wrapping and no gift. Yeah, sorry, saber, mate. I get a round of applause, though, so it's not all bad. You can add to that if you want on, because I might have got the times and the years and the history wrong, but I didn't. I didn't get the. I didn't get the words, the reasons wrong. Zero 345-606-0973 Andy is in sidcup. Andy, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Andy. Some american US english spelling are spelled differently to the UK English. They are, yes. Like color, flavor and valor and. Well, actually, most. But when you're doing stuff on the computer, quite often it's got the american thing. So on Twitter, I get the spelling mistake line under it when I've actually spelt it correct. They swap s for Zed a lot as well, don't they? They leave out the US. They leave out the US in the words you've mentioned. And they often swap the s that we use for a Zed. Yeah. Like realize. Yeah, that's right. We've got an s in real life. Yeah. What I wanted to know was when and why did this change throughout american history? I think the answer will be, and I'm not going to get a round of applause for this because I'm thinking out loud and dredging stuff up from the mists of my memory. Quite often it turns out that the Americans are the ones that are doing it in the way that we all used to do and it's us that have changed. Oh really? Yeah, quite often it turns out that way. It may not turn out that way on this one, but in that case then when and why did we change it? Yeah, no, I know. When did they diverge? When did flavor become flavour or vice versa? Because they like to be literal, don't they? Well, yeah, I don't know, possibly, yeah. I mean, I like that one. That's a good one. I hope I get you an answer, not least because I'd love to know myself. But don't be surprised, Andrew, if it turns out to be the Yanks, what are the traditionalists and the purists and the Brits, what are the changes? And duckers and divers? Yes, I probably agree with that. We shall have a look. Chaucer's always helpful for getting an idea of what English used to look like. Darren is in west Wickham. Darren, question or answer? I have a question, James. Carry on. Darren, do cockeyed people see straight? Of course they do, mate. Well, I've never been had the courage to ask someone, you know, like, well, you wouldn't know. Don't ever do that. Don't, please ever do that. No, I wouldn't, no, thank you. Good. I thought maybe. Yeah, I'll ask studies. Yeah, no, of course they dumb. Division is an amazing thing, but what it will do is. Are you a little bit. Ivan's a little bit cross eyed, my studio producer, so I'll ask him now, should I do it live on the radio, Darren? Yeah, sure. Ivan, as a slightly cross eyed individual, do you see straight? Yes, he does see straight, Darren. Okay, all right, thank you. Why did you want to know? It's always puzzled me, you know, if someone's looking at you. Yeah. And one eye sort of looking over your shoulder. Yeah. Whether or not they may have like a, like a blind spot in the middle or whether their brain just compensates for it, like, listen, I'm not going to lie to you, Darren, I think that. I think Ivan's just shot you down, but I'm not good enough at physics to be 100% certain of why. This is why I thought I would ring. Yeah, because he just. Hundreds of questions. He just said, ring again next week and try and get through. Just said, light comes in three D and that's. You can't see through. Oh, he can't see 3d films when he's. Even when he's got the glasses on. Does that help? That? That does, yeah. But he can see straight. Excellent. Also, 3D Films are rubbish. No, some of them are brilliant. For example, Judge Dredd. Really? It's filmed for 3D. What, with Sylvester Stallone in it? No, the most recent one with Carl urban, I've missed. All right, I'll take your word for it. Very violent. I've got the kit. You know, sky sent me the kit to watch it all in three D and we. I watched a couple of games of football. The rugby was. I think sports are terrible in three days. You're absolutely right. So it's all. It's in the bottom drawer somewhere. You know that draw that's like, full of chargers and weird cables and. Yeah, I've got. I've got a couple of pairs of 3d glasses in there, actually. I might go and give them a dust off then and download the old judge Dredd film on your recommendation. Lovely. I listen to your podcast of this show. Can I shout out to my son? Because he'll be listening to it with me. Hey, it'd be rude if you didn't. Hi, Regan. Thank you, James. Hi, dad. God, that was weird. It's coming up to 12:15. Two for two on that, are we? I think we are, actually. So if you can add to the question about the american spellings and the english spellings, that's still on the board. So if, you know, when did they diverge? Flavour and flavor. Realize and realise, when did they diverge? And who has done the diverging? Them or us? Zero. 345-606-0973 and it would be remiss of me at this point as a person of huge pretentiousness and pedantry to fail to remind you of the famous words of Oscar Wilde, which speak directly to that rather splendid question from Andy, when, of course, he described Britain and America as two countries divided by a common language. This is LBC calling all. Hub 1218 is the time when did english and american spellings diverge? And possibly even why we. We forgot to give Ivan. A few of you have pointed out he deserved. Despite being the silent voice. Can you have a silent voice? Despite being the silent studio manager, the program these days since Jones the engineer went off to be a professional poker player. He's back now, but Ivan's in this kick. You deserve a round of applause, mate. Give yourself a round of applause. That's so nice, working for me. I'm such a generous, generous employer. Let's go to Newcastle. James, is there question or answer, James. Question, please, James. Carry on, James. I would like to know if there's any areas of earth above sea level that have not been explored yet. Go on. So, you know, are there any islands or mountains or anywhere that people haven't yet seen or been to? I like that. Why do you fancy it? You fancy yourself as the new bear Grylls? Yeah. Maybe it's a good way to get yourself sort of. So there's Amazon rainforest that's been barely because there are lost tribes on there. Inside, deep inside some rain. Would that count? Let's say. So an unclimbed mountain or an unexplored island? It's unlikely. I mean, but I'll ask the question. So certainly. So any. Any areas above sea level, obviously, that are yet to be explored, unexplored areas is the phrase I'm looking for. All right? Yeah, nice one. And if we find a few, we'll start putting together some kind of support package for you. Shall we start getting the listeners to sponsor you? Yeah. Have a whip round for a rucksack, that sort of thing. Should be quite straightforward. Yeah, sounds great. There you go, James. 20 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. It's a slightly spooky text. He said, dear James, do you realise that you used the word program in your book spelt p r o G r A m? Is that. That's the american spelling, is it? Presumably. And added, this is from your old english teacher. I literally just looked up thinking I was about to get told off. I think that's Lucy, if that's you, Lucy. Thank you. I'm trying to think how many other english teachers I've got know. 21 minutes after twelve is the time Tony is in Taunton. Tony, what would you like to say? I've got an answer for you. Carry on, Tony. Sorry, I've done it wrong, mate. I got. Mate, mate. I got so distracted by a text from my old english teacher, I'm trying to work out which one it might be that I introduced. For the first time ever, I took someone onto mystery without saying question or answer. No worries. Sorry, man. Tony, question or answer? Question or answer, Tony. Answer. Carry on. American spellings. Yes. Goes back to a chap called Noel Webster from the late 17 hundreds, early 18 hundreds. He created the first american dictionaries, which I believe were actually published in the early 18 hundreds, but he started work in the late 17 hundreds. He wanted to simplify a lot of spellings, because at the time, I think you were right in what you were saying. We had a bit of a, shall we say, a slightly relaxed attitude, spelling. Up to that point, he wanted to standardize it and he wanted a simpler. Because he sort of, like, they were dealing with a lot of people that didn't get a huge amount of education, so he wanted to find something that everybody could say, right, this is how you want to do it. This is the easiest way to do it. That'll do. So he. So a little more phonetic than perhaps some of the. Pretty much, yeah, yeah. Because at the time there were a lot of other things around and he did actually refer to a lot of british documents, stuff by various writers, including Shakespeare, Chaucer, etc, etcetera. And he just simply said, no, that's it, we're going to do it this way and it makes it easier for everybody. That makes sense. Qualifications in this case, this is because I belong to an online community, variety professionals. We got a lot of american people there. And somebody actually raised this issue about a year ago. We had this really lengthy index discussion online about it. I love it. I don't. Who'd have thought that it would result in this? Yeah. Do you have to share that with everyone else on the. On the community or are you going to keep it for yourself? No, no, no. I shall probably put something on there and just let them know any one time. There's a couple of thousand people on there, so I'm sure they'll be very happy. Oh, brilliant stuff. You live and learn, Tony. Thank you. That's great. Webster's dictation, of course, makes perfect sense. 23 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery out continues. Graham is in Bromley. Graham, question or answer? Question, James, carry on. I once watched a program about the orbit of the moon, and apparently some millions of years ago, the moon used to be a lot closer to the planet Earth and the tides were much larger and it's been changing ever since. And I just wondered that with mankind sapping energy out of the tidal system to generate electricity as we go forward, whether that's going to affect the orbit of the moon over and above what it might already be changing by. So if we use a lot of hydroelectric power to harness the waves. Yes, tidal energy. Will it affect the moon? The orbit of the moon, yes. Now, I'm not going to lie to you, Gray, I'm poised to describe this as one of the stupidest questions we've ever had on mystery hour. But in the back of my brain, there's a little bit of me that thinks maybe I'm the stupid one, because I say, it's not on a string, mate, is it it's oddly as if you pull one end and the other end is going to move. But, but, but I'm not very good at this kind of stuff, and I'm always a little bit wary of being too arrogant in my dismissal of a question. I would say it seems highly unlikely. Okay. Wouldn't you, though? And you think, genuinely, if we build for every. Every wave energy source that we build, what they called anyway, the moon is getting further away from the. From the. From the earth as time goes by, so. But it was doing that long before we started. Tides will no longer be. So you think the tides are like an engine that pull the moon? Yeah, there's a drag between the moon and the earth and that's what causes the tide, which. Which, which causes the tides. So if you. If you fit. I think they're fiddling with the tides. In the great scheme of interplanetary motion, it doesn't matter how many hydroelectric plants you build in the sea, they're still gonna. Well, I don't know. Oh, mate. Now my head hurts now my head hurts. My head hurts now, mate. Let's get it on the board. Will harnessing tide power affect the moon? Zero. 345-606-0973 Lee's in Leeds. Lee, question or answer? This is not as complicated as the previous one. James, question. Glad to hear it. Go on. As inflation increases every year and a million used to be a decent size, now a trillion and a billion. Does that mean calculators will get bigger in the future? You mean the screen on a calculator? Yeah, to fit the digits in. No, you silly sausage. We'll just use indices, won't we? We'll just use more power. Resolve ten to the power. Yeah. Won't we? Will we? Will we? Won't we? I've been doing a lot of business margins and calculations this morning and things seems to be increasing and I'm thinking. I'm running out of screen here, James. I can't imagine that you're going to need a bigger screen. You just. You just. You'll just have a ten to the power of twelve, won't you? Rather than twelve zeros after your ten. I think because a scientific calculator has quite a big screen, but we don't really use. I don't want to sound rudely, but no one really uses calculators anymore. You can use your computer and that's got a screen the size of your television. Yeah, but it's only got so many digits and I think twelve is the maximum calculator there'll. Be an app somewhere online that lets you do whatever you want. All right, so are we gonna know? It's got a touch of the. It's got a touch of jaws, hasn't it, this? We're gonna need a bigger calculator. We're gonna need a bigger boat. Yeah. And how was business? Once you've crunched all the numbers, done all the sums, think things looking good. Pretty good considering where we're going in March, you know, chin up, you know, and all that. Carry on. Onwards and upwards. Lee and Leeds, of course. We keep you on the record for the day when I conduct a program consisting entirely of people whose christian names lead neatly into their location. Okay, so don in Doncaster, now we've got Lee in Leeds. It's going to be a long way off that show, but one day we will achieve it. It's 1227. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Marco's in Harrow. Marco, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. This is actually my girlfriend's question, but I'm asking on behalf of her as she was too nervous to speak. Very gallant of you, Marco. I know, I know. So the question is, why are certain allergies so. Well, seem so much more common than other ones? For example, peanuts or shellfish? Why wouldn't they? I mean, what, you'd expect an equal distribution of allergies for any? Yeah, I suppose. Yeah, because, I mean, why not a Brazil nut? What is it about peanuts that makes them so popular as allergies? Popular? Common? Well, not common. Yes, not popular. What do we want? Peanut allergies. When do we want them? No, common. More common than other nuts. Yeah, I like it. Thank you. I'm not complimenting you, mate. I'm complimenting your girlfriend. We'll both take the compliment. Why are some allergies much more prevalent? That's the word we want than others. I like that question. 28 minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Diane is in Streatham. Diane, question or answer? Hello, James. And it's Diana, actually. Diana. Ah, that's twice Sam. Today you got Tim and Kim mixed up and now you've got Diana. You've lopped an a off Diana's. Diana is a much classier name than Diane, isn't it? What? Anyway, James, Diane makes me think of crossroads. Diana makes me think of the royal family. Carry on, Diana. I am royalty. We shall move on. Clearly. Right. I've been trying to get through to you about this question. For a while, yes. Why? What happened to the sign? I think it was a sticker or something on the back of the buses that used to say, let the bus out first, please. Where's it gone? What? What? Yes. Oh, what do you mean? Who put this through? Oh, it's going on so well with you, Diana. It's a rut. This was you, was it? What were you thinking? We've got a full switchboard. This is absolutely ropey. It's not ropey. It is ropey. I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to my producer. This is ropey. Producer. Why did you put it through? What do you mean? Where did it go? They just decided not to use them anymore? Yes. Why not? Because they don't need them. But everyone knows the buses are going to barge out into the middle of traffic regardless of what anybody else is doing. Yes, they do. But sometimes when they're in a right pickle, you know, they need to ask. I mean, you've got lots of different companies, so. I will put it on the board, Diana, out of respect and affection. But what? For you? Respect and affection for me? Yes, of course. Respect and affection for you. All right. But I don't. I don't. Don't hold your breath. What happened to the signs on the back of the bus is saying, please let them out. It's off past twelve. Lisa Aziz has the headlines. A major new reports concluded opportunities to stop the Maori's 1235 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We've done the american question. That was a lovely answer to the Webster's dictionary. Done that. The. Are there any unexplored areas left on the planet? Do you know? A lad I was at school with, his dad had a mountain named after him. I always thought that was pretty cool. Mount Fagan, it's called. I don't know where it is, but his dad worked for the army as a kind of explorer. He can't have been an explorer, can he, in the kind, you know, the bit of the army that makes maps, cartographers. And there were bits he went to places that hadn't actually been mapped before and he found a new mountain. He got named after him. It's kind of a bit weird today. If that text really was off my old english teacher, then I've just had a DM on Twitter of a lad I was at school with when I was twelve, Hugh, lovely bloke. And he says, can we put the tides controlling the moon? Guy in charge of Brexit negotiations, please. Ombudsman upwards. Professor Hal is here, back from his russian sojourn and newly or re ensconced as the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Professor Hal, question or answer? I'd like to discuss the tides and the moon question, if I may. Oh, no. And I was delighted when you said it's not on a piece of string, because it's directly analogous to a stone on a piece of string. And it isn't that much of a stupid question. Okay? And I know this in particular because on the way to Russia, on the way back, I was reading a delightful book called the Ascent of Gravity by Marcus Chowne, which I would recommend to mystery our followers because it's very, very readable. Anything else, you. Anything else you'd recommend at the moment? Actually, your book. Oh, four quid. Four quid on Amazon's Black Friday, mate. But obviously you should support your local bookshop as well. Or in fairness, I was in Smith's in Victoria and it wasn't on the chart, and I was disappointed to know, but I did find it in Waterstones in Red Hill, so that's outrageous. Smiths haven't gone big on it and Sainsbury's have. The world of publishing a book is absolutely baffling to me. Amazon, reduce it if it's selling well. You'd think it would kind of be the other way around. You'd reduce it if it wasn't selling well, so you could knock out loads of them, wouldn't you? Yeah, yeah, I completely agree. There we go. Anyway, carrying, interestingly, Newton and his apple analogy, he only actually spoke about that long, long after he'd written principia mathematica. So it's one of those things that he sort of. If only he thought of it at the time. But what the original caller was talking about is orbital drag. And it's not a stupid question because, for example, satellites in low orbit, they do end up spiraling into the earth because of atmospheric drag. They get slowed down, so they move closer to the earth and so on and so forth. And the same analogy would work with the moon. And the fact of the matter is that the tides work because the moon tugs the water. So on the side facing the moon, it pulls, there's a bulge towards it, and on the opposite side of the earth, there's a bulge towards it as well. So the bulge works on both sides of it. Your answer, though, you did redeem yourself, because it absolutely is a drop in the ocean. You see what I did there. And actually, the net effect is that energy is transferred from the earth to the moon. So every year the moon moves away by about 4 cm. So the moon is getting further from the Earth because energy is being transferred from the Earth's rotation to the moon, resulting in a slightly slower rotation of the earth. So we lose a fraction of a second a day and the moon's moving further away. But the tide thing is just absolutely minor. It's so marginal, you probably couldn't even measure it. Yeah. Okay, so round of applause for you and apologies from me to the fellow who asked the question, which was nowhere near as daft as I suggested it was, how do you get on in Russia? Actually, hang on, I've got some phone lines for you, so if you want to ring in with a question, or you can answer any of the questions already on the board, me and. Me and Professor Howe will engage in some torturous banter in order to give you time to book up your place on the switchboard. Zero. 345-606-0973 how was Russia? Howe, you forgot my anecdote. I was going to tell you and you said, I'll talk about it next time. When I came back through customs, I explained who I was because they all stopped me. And the bloke said, the customer, you're that bloke off mystery hour. Yes, yes. Seriously. He actually did. And my passport could have eliminated all doubt, but what he did was he gave me an impromptu viva voca. He said, all right, then, if you're Professor Howell, why is it that when a lift cable breaks, you can't just jump when it reaches the bottom? So we had a delightful discourse about two bodies in freefall and so on and so forth. And then he said, all right, all right, what about, how does time travel differently? And the thing was, his mate on the next table was turning over a couple of poor hapless passengers and getting more and more engrossed. We sort of waved them away. And in the end, I had about a gaggle of about five or six customs officer having a delightful exchange over about 20 minutes. It was the most british thing ever. And did your accomplice succeed in smuggling eight kilos of cocaine through the other path while they were all talking to you? All these folks rushing along with an extra litre of Johnny Walker. Oh, that's a lovely story. That's my. It's only my second favorite story of the week, though, about the show reaching parts that other programs cannot reach. My favorite. Did you hear what Darren and Orpington experienced yesterday or the day before. Sadly not. But he had a bloke who genuinely. A right old show off at his darts team, who genuinely started arguing that darts had been invented by the Earl of Dartmouth. It's brilliant. It goes back. What goes around comes around. Exactly that. Nice one. Professor hall, always a pleasure. 1241 is the time Rob's in Greenwich. Rob, question or answer? Are you all right, Rob? Sound like you're down a well. Yeah. We got to sort this phone line out. Robert, come on. You're talking into the earpiece. That's what we're doing wrong all these years. Go on. Right, so the bus stickers on the back of buses. Worst question ever. Well, I don't agree. All right, go on, what happens? I don't agree, but, yeah, they were. You used to have to let buses out by law, so they had. Right away, when they're pulled out, but they changed the highway code to word it, that you had to let buses out only if it's safe to do so. And I've got a 2014 copy and it's ruled two two three. If anyone's really. I like it. So that's why they would have taken the stickers off. Yeah, yeah. So, rather, if you're driving along, the bus just pulls out and they still do something. Of course they do, yeah. And some of them have. Some of them have got the new one on the rule 223. I think some of them have got that on the back of the bus. Yeah. Doubly rub. You're right, yeah, yeah, yeah. It clears it up for that. Qualifications. Rob. I'm a driver. I'll do nicely. Round of applause for Rob. Great stuff. Reef is in heaven. Reef. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. I'd like to know why there are so many blue roofed buildings in, like, far the Far east countries. Like both Koreas, China. I've never been to any of those places. I mean, Greece has got blue roofs a lot, hasn't it? A lot of greek country. Greek beautiful, really. Aquamarine blue is common to islands like Santorini and places like that. But I've never, never been to Asia. I'll take your word for it. But presumably the answer would be if you zoom in on Google Earth on any one of those countries and your eyes are just drawn to these blue roofs. And on the Michael Palin show that he was in North Korea the other week. Yeah, within the DMZ. DMZ, sorry, yes. And the roof was blue there, so it just brought the question back up. To my mind. I love it. I like that question. I hope we get you an answer. Nice one, reef. Thank you very much. Can I ask about you? Can I be the millionth person in your life to ask about the origins of your name? Just a nickname from school. Cool. Just a nickname from school. Cheers, reef. 1243 is the time. Will we need bigger calculators, as we routinely do sums with bigger, ever bigger numbers. If you can answer that question, you will get through. Why are some allergies much more prevalent than others? For example, a peanut. You're much more likely. I know it's a legume, not a nut, but the question still stands. Why are some allergies more prevalent than others? It's a fairly straightforward question. Why are so many roofs blue in Asia and parts of Europe? Have I missed anything else off? Oh, and the unexplored areas, are there any unexplored? I mean, if you wanted to be an explorer, is there any way you could go that no one else has been? All of those are still on the board. Room for a couple more. Paul's in Stevenage. Question or answer, Paul. Question. Carry on. What did the Romans call the years that we call BC? God used to know this. I can't believe I've forgotten. I'm glad you did. I'll get it on the bike. With something to do with Caesar or. I can't even remember. We don't call them BC anymore either. In some areas, it's BCE. Oh, really? Yeah, because of the sort of suggestion that we're not really enthralled to christian doctrine as a population anymore. So it's before the common era, they call it, as opposed to the pre common era, but that's a conversation for a different day. I'll find out for you. What years. How did they count years before the common era, before BC and ad, with the birth of Jesus inaccurately recorded as the point at which ad begins. 1245 is the time. There's lots here. Let's do it. This is LBC. No matter what you want, 1249 is the time. I had two questions, my own, this week, but I think we might have done them, one of them before, but oddly, I don't know why I've remembered them. I always forget the questions that I would ask myself. I was going to ask why the cats prefer water in the bottom of the shower. Well, I get out of the shower, the cats can't wait to get in and start lapping it up, despite the fact they've got water in their own bowls. But I thought that might have quite an icky answer, so we didn't do that. And then the other one was, oh, no, it's gone. No. What? No. What was the other? I can't believe it. I literally remembered it during the break and now I've forgotten it again already. There's the one about the cats and then there was. Oh, man, that's annoying. Suzanne is in Westcliff. Suzanne, question or answer? Hello. Hopefully an answer. Carry on, Suzanne. Yeah, well, the peanut thing and the allergy. Well, okay. As you know, peanuts are legumes. They're not. They're not enough. Okay. And they. So people associate them with nuts, but they're not. But basically all legumes contain something called a lectin. Okay. So yeah, and lectins, basically what they do is they bind all your carbohydrates and it's a protein that binds your carbohydrates all together in your body so you can't release them. And it basically, it's toxic. So if you know, that's what they, you know, basically a lot of doctors gps don't tell you, be careful of lectins. You know, what else are they in? They in all legumes. They all. Oh, yeah, lentils, you know, chickpeas. And they get. They remove. You cook them and it reduces, well, fermenting. Fermenting and boiling down for, like, hours and hours. Yeah, but people don't do that. You know, they'll buy a tin of beans. They'll buy a tin of chickpeas. They haven't been boiled down. They haven't been fermented. Well, no peanut. Yeah, but what about peanuts? You know, peanuts are just filled everywhere and they're in everything. And they're in everything. Yeah. And then. So it's all about lectins then. It's all about. So there are any lectins in act? I mean, there's nowhere near as many lectins in actual nuts. Not really. No nuts. Like Brazil walnuts, pecans. Really good for you. There's no lectins in there. The almonds, the peanuts are worst. Cashews are bad. Peanuts and cashews. Yeah, really bad. Cashews are not good for you. You know, all these vegans. I love cashews. Luckily, I can eat anything. Yeah, me too. I'm not fond of marzipan, though. I just. I'm not allergic to my favorite. Well, I should like it because I love nuts of almost every variety. And a marzipan is just a sort of almond paste. Maybe I'll try it again this Christmas, but I normally peel it off my Christmas cake. I'm doing stolen at my cooking classes this week. Now you've jumped the gun. I was about to ask you what your qualifications are teaching kids to cook. Oh, what a wonderful thing to do. I'm gonna do stolen with the lovely Mardi Pam paste in the middle. Oh, I'd give that a try. I wouldn't let my marzipanism prevent me from at least having a taste. I think. A round of applause for Suzanne, though. Thank you. You're very welcome. I'm doing Christmas lunch again this year, so I start now sort of wondering whether I'm going to do anything different. You know, a little bit experimental. Nah, never. No, never. You've got to be traditionalist. Mother in law will do the red cabbage, I'll do the sprouts with a little bit of chestnut and bacon. I'm going to be cooking for two vegetarians this year for the first time, but that's fine. You know, they can just pick the bacon out of the sprouts. The other question I was going to ask you was a bit of an odd one and it wouldn't work on mystery hour, but I did just remember it. So in honor of the fact that my memory still functions on some vaguely recognizable level, what's the age at which you're reading a news story and you think, oh, gosh, he's old. And then you say, oh, my God, I'm the same age as him. Because it just happened to me. I was reading a story and it said, the criminal 46. And I went, oh, gosh, he's a bit old to be doing that sort of thing. I went, oh, my God, he's the same age as me. I just wonder if that's happened to you yet. Lee is in Cardiff. Lee, question or answer? No. Steward's inquiry. What? Cast your mind back to the beginning of mystery hour. Yeah. When you were asked the why we were called Great Britain. Yes. I'm not disputing your link with Brittany, etc. I'm not going into that. But Great Britain is just great because it's the biggest of the British Isles. No, because Grand Canaria in Canary Islands. It's called Grand Canaria because it's the biggest. Yeah, yeah, that's true. But Great Britain covers the islands, mate. It covers. It includes the little islands as well. No, Great Britain is the island in which Wales, England and Scotland are all situated. The nation state we live in is the united kingdom of Great Britain. This island, all those countries in that island and northern Ireland. So where's the isle of wine? It's just north. Southampton. Yeah. And. And it is in. It's part of England and England is part of. They don't. They just don't name the little islands. Stop digging. We have a very long country and the Isle of Wight and. Oh, not the island, because that's a dependency, or whatever they call it. Leave it. It's just getting worse. It is called grand Bretonnia, to distinguish it from the other Britannia, Brittany, where Britons live. I'll leave it to someone else to cross judgment on that. But you can't leave it to someone else because, I mean, you've got to be so sure of your facts if you're going to launch a stewards inquiry. Because I'm quite impatient with them, to be honest with you. Not least because nobody likes me corrected. At least of all me. But that's got absolutely nothing to do with the size of Britain. Chris is in the city. Chris, question or answer? Answer. Carry on the question on large numbers getting bigger and calculators or computers getting bigger. To deal with them. Are we going to need a bigger calculator? Lee and Leeds wanted to know. Well, so traditionally, the way computers did sort of calculations, where you loaded the numbers into the CPU register, and most computers now have a sort of 64 bit register, which means you can store a number up to about ten to the power of 19. So that would be ten with 19 noughts after it. Yeah, yeah, that's kind of. I mean, I don't know. I didn't ask Lee what business he was in, but he's unlikely to need ten to the power of 19 when he's doing his company accounts. Well, I guess if NASA looking at the number of stars in the universe. So, yes, you can have numbers bigger than that and they actually have sort of clever ways to deal with that. So now you can actually store a number where, you know, you can't. You can do calculations with numbers where you don't have the whole number in memory. So you have, you know, I mean, if you imagine type of computer with about, I don't know, a terabyte hard drive. So no one's going to bother making a computer that can cope with a calculator, that can cope with all these massive numbers, because it's going to be part of our computers. Yeah. I mean, I think that was the question. Yes, exactly, yeah. Qualifications? I'm a software engineer. Software engineer. That'll do nicely. Round of applause. It was a bit spooky, though. It was indeed, my old english teacher, via her stepson Nigel, who was pointing out that I used an american spelling of program on page 17 of my recently published Tome. I've also now received a further instruction that I have to stop saying it means nothing to you or I do I really say that should be nothing to you or me? I'm sorry, Miss Nick is in Sheffield. Nick, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got an answer to the roman calendar question. Oh, yes. So BC obviously doesn't make any sense before Christ, if you lived then, because no one knew he was coming, or at least no one knew when he was coming. At risk of committing blasphemy, I think there's a couple of memes like that. We say, what year is it? Oh, it's four BC. Before what? So the Romans had. So there are three roman calendars, as it were. One is the one. Is the one that they used. The very first one that they used, it's more religious, was the one where they had year zero at the founding of Rome, which is about 700 BC, something like that. The problem is that the Romans embellished their history so much that, well, you know, it wasn't. It may not have been Romulus and Remus, it's a bunch of farmers that settled on a river, but they considered the date that Romulus killed Remus is about 735 BC. But that's an educated remembrance anyway. But to the practical person on the street, you wouldn't say it's, you know, 600 after the founding of Rome, you'd say the year is the year of the consul, because every Roman had a working knowledge of their political system. So. So you'd go, what year is it? Oh, it's the year of. If you were in Sicily. Oh, it's. It's the year of. It's the year of Caesar and Bibulus. Except, and to draw parallels with modern life, Caesar, you was a popularist who then bullied everyone around him. He forced Bibulus to basically lock him in his own home. And it was referred to as a joke as the year of Caesar and Caesar, because there are always two consuls. And Caesar managed to get his own way then, in the late Roman Empire, Byzantine. The byzantine empire, basically, they did some celestial maths and determined that once this is Christian Roman Empire, they determined that the world was created by God in about 5500 bc. So that was then their year zero. So actually, they then rewrote their calendars. So there were three different calendars. And back in Britain at the time, we were too busy smearing ourselves in wode and dancing around Stonehenge to be counting the years, do you think? Oh, no, we can't have gone. I wanted to hear what his qualifications were. I would have gone, but I think he's a professor of classical history. I mean, that was clever stuff, man. Get Nick back quickly. Oh, Sheila's here. Squeezing will. Unexplored areas. Will. North Sentinel island in the Bay of Bengal. It's a protected island because the natives are incredibly hostile. So it hasn't really been explored by anyone. No. Everyone that set foot on the island has been essentially been killed by the natives. It has an exclusion, exclusion zone of about 4 km around it. North Sentinel island in the Indian Ocean. Yes. It's also to protect the natives from diseases as well from us because they've got die of the common cold. Question or answer? I mean, um, what qualifications had on a podcast called historian and there was a recent story in the mail about a missionary who'd gone there and there's been murder. They can't just read that today. Is that there? That's there. Yes. The American with a bow. Killed with a bow and arrow. Yes. Round of applause. They were wiped out during the asian tsunami and he was just floating around in the Andaman Sea. I mean, they shot him from the shore when he was about to set foot on one of the islands. Quite possibly, yes. It's a horrible story. No, no, fair enough. It's right. You can find it elsewhere. Round of applause for Will. And one for the Nick and Sheffield if we can't get him back. Nick and Sheffield, this is for you. Sorry I'm late, Sheila. Sorry. I wanted to know the classicists qualifications. We might find out next week. Shall I go? Should I do it? Okay. Thank you.