I think we caught someone out cheating - 21 Jan 16

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time, and Mystery Hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available on the radio anywhere else in the world. It is your chance to get an answer to the who, the why, the what, the when, the wherefore, the whither, possibly even the whence that has had you puzzled for the longest time, or just for the last ten minutes or so. It is the radio equivalent of those newspaper columns, the notes and queries, the features where readers write in with a question, with a mystery. Why do we do that? What's the origin of that? When this happens, why does that happen? Why are there only x number of X's? You know the kind of thing, the thing that you know must have an answer, but you don't know what the answer is. Well, if you've got a question like that, we'll get you the answer by 01:00 all you have to do is ring zero 345-606-0973 and tell me what the mystery is. What is the question to which you desperately desire an answer? There aren't really any rules except repetition and dullness. Getting very bad at the repetition as I get older. Last week we had a question that you said we dealt with a couple of weeks previously. But if I can remember dealing with a question relatively recently, then, or if Victoria and Caroline, who are answering the phones today, can, then we will politely invite you to move along swiftly, ideally. And dullness, similarly, is in the ear of the beholder. So if your question is one that you think is absolutely fascinating, but on reflection, you realize that nobody else on the planet will be remotely interested in the answer, then it's probably not ideal for our purposes. Okay? Otherwise, I mean, literally, anything goes. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you do know the answer, give me a ring on the same number and tell me what that answer is. If you're successful, if we're satisfied with your credentials and with the nature of your answer, then you could receive the most sought after prize in the history of british radio, a bona fide mystery hour. Round of applause. Just calm down. There's no guarantees. You might not get any. But that is the prize that is waiting for you should you satisfactorily answer somebody else's mystery, is that it. I can't think of anything else I need to say, can you? 1206 is the time. Phone lines are open. If you hear me say the number, it means I've got a phone line free. It's. I mean, routinely, a ridiculously busy switchboard at the moment, but on Thursdays from twelve till one, even by our standards of busyness, things go a little bit bonkers. So if you hear me say the number, it means there's a phone line free. I'm told that judicious use of redial is a much, much more reliable way of getting through than almost anything else. But I don't know why. Some characters manage to get on almost every week, while others write to me routinely telling me that they can't. I guess it has something to do with when and, well, when you actually hit the buttons. I don't know. There's another mystery, one that will never be solved. Let's start in Bishop Stortford. Shaun, is there? Sean, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question that I'm always lucky enough to get through. Good man. I know. It's a funny one, though. It is. Listen, I want you to ask a question. Can you. Is it possible to fire a handgun if you're on the moon or actually fire a handgun in space? What? Why? Why do you want to know? I just wanted to know. Why would. Why wouldn't it be? I know you can fire. You see all these James Bond films, what have you, and I know that you can fire a weapon underwater. So is it possible to fire one on the moon? Well, there's no air, so you wouldn't get anything to ignite. There's no air underwater. No, but there's oxygen. Well, yeah, but what would actually happen? I don't know. With respect, mate, I'm surprised you got on with this one. Sorry, mate, I'm very surprised you got on with this question. Hmm. Well, as I say, it'd be interesting to find. No, I think. I think that's a very. Well, all right, I'm not going to be rude because sometimes when I'm rude, someone else will ring in later and explain why I was wrong to be rude. And it turns out to be a really fascinating question. We shall see. Dave's in Flakwell Heath. Is that right? Hello, James. Hello, Dave. Question or answer? Question. Yeah, so I was wondering, deja vu. Why does it make you feel uneasy when you experience it? It's just a bit weird. Have you asked me this question before? No, first time caller. Oh, you didn't see what I did there, did you, Dave? Oh God. Come on, mate. Oh dear. Keep up. Well, I don't understand what the mystery is because if you have a sense that the thing that just happened has happened before, of course it's going to make you uneasy. Well, you know, if, if you see, if you're trying to run away from something where you're in danger, yeah, get it. But if I've just walked down the road and I've seen someone, I've thought, oh, I recognize them, but I don't know where from. I don't get why, why that matters. I'm going to for two now and saying I'm surprised you got through. What I mean, deja vu means already seen. It's a sense you have that something that's just happened to you had happened before. It would be a mystery if it didn't make you feel uneasy. Yeah, bit of an odd one. Yeah, you can say that again. Right, let's start again. Okay. It's nine minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour. James O'Brien. I don't have any questions on the board yet. I do, but they're both a bit rubbish. Next in London Bridge. Nick, question or answer? I've got a question. Pressure's on, Nick, mate. I tell you, if I get a hat trick of rubbish now, heads are going to roll. Well, it's a genuine mystery. It's always, always puzzled me. Go on then. I want to know, like sloths, why are they not extinct like they are? When you look at a move it's like they're in slow motion. There can't be a shortage of predators in the jungle and they sleep pretty much all day. They're just a sitting duck, a big lump of meat up a tree. Why don't predators eat them? I know they've got big claws but they can't swipe you. They literally like are in slow motion. But they must be up trees in areas where they don't have many predators. Surely not. It must be, mate. If you eliminate the impossible, whatever you're left with, however improbable, must be the truth. I make you right there. But is that right? In the jungle, where are sloths? Sloths native to do we know? Well, when I last seen it looked like it was Brazil or something actually showed you crossing a road. So central South America. Central America. So you haven't got, you haven't got. Have you got lions and tigers? You haven't got lions and tigers there, have you? Some of the monkeys are real nasty. Now, I've seen them eat each other. Yeah. I mean, just because he moved slowly doesn't mean he couldn't knock out a monkey. Honestly, they are like freaky sloths. Start again. So, couldn't a sloth knock out a monkey in a fistfight, James? Yeah, I'm sure. Well, there's your answer. There, you see? No, I could. A monkey. Yeah, a monkey could. Sorry, I thought you asked me the other way around. No, sloth. The sloth's much bigger than a monkey. It might. It might move slowly, but it. When it moves, it means it, all right? And I. Then, you know, a primate, there's just not enough of them to threaten them with extinction. The whole point of evolution is that you only develop in environments where you're safe, where your species survives. So, you know what predates a sloth? What, eat sloths? Well, I thought their meat must have been, like, toxic or something. You know, like, you can't eat them. Well, I don't think. I think they're herbivores, so it'd be surprising if you couldn't eat a sloth. All right, then, so why don't sloths. Why haven't sloths gone extinct? Yeah, like a dodo or, you know, something that's absolutely un. You just edged it. I tell you, if the standard of the previous two questions hadn't been so woeful, absolutely woeful, I probably would have had a pop at you for that one. But given that it's the best question of the first three, you're over the line. Hey, I'll take that. All right, thank you. Professor Martin Smith is here. Professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Presumably with an answer. Professor? Yes, indeed, James. You surprised me. Because they've been an unremittingly rubbish round of questions so far. Not too good, have they? You could say that again. Which one would you like to have a crack at? Can you fire a handgun on the moon? Oh, yes. And the answer is, yes, you can. You don't need air to fire a handgun. You don't need oxygen, because the gunpowder inside the cartridge case already contains all the oxygen it needs in the. Potassium nitrate, which is a. Nitrate is nitrogen and three molecules of oxygen. Really? Yeah. And that would also explain why you can fire a gun underwater if you've somehow managed to contrive to keep the powder dry before the trigger hits the mechanism. Well, it is sealed. It's. The brass cartridge case is pretty heavily crimped onto the. Oh, I knew this was going to happen. So, I mean, that was actually quite a good question. Yes. Yes, I think so. I've got a new producer, Professor Smith. I was. I was trying to sort of subtly lay down the law a bit from this side of the studio glass, but she's only gone and done me. Oh, dear. Round of applause for the professor. Apologies also to. Who was the fellow that asked the question in the first place? Big apologies to you, chap in Bishop Storford. Mark's in Walthamstow. Question or answer? Mark is. And question. James, carry on. The Alphabet. Yes. Is there any logic to where it's written or is it just a. A bunch of random letters? Well, you mean random shapes and squiggles, because they're only letters. No, no, no. The order. The ABC. D, e, f, g. So is there any logic to the order of the Alphabet? Yes. Somebody said, okay, we have a load of letters here. Yeah, let's make an Alphabet. But is there any logic the way the order is written? Do you know, I really like that question. Thank God for that. No, you should be worried, mate. It's the ones I don't like that turn out to be good. The ones I do like probably going to turn out to be rubbish. By way of a converse. But why alpha? Alpha, beta, gamma, delta a, b, c, d, e? It's a really good question because we're so familiar with it, we presume that there is some sense in it, but actually they're probably. Why would they be in the order that they're in? Is it? So the song works. I know it is. I'm just sort of reiterating the question for the purposes of clarity. Why is the Alphabet in the order the Alphabet is in? I love that question. Why aren't sloths extinct? I still think that's a bit rubbish. And why do we feel uneasy when we get deja vu? I'm convinced that that is completely rubbish. It's 1215. This is LBC. It is 20 minutes after twelve. Why does deja vu make us feel a little bit uncomfortable? Why aren't sloths extinct, given that they're so rubbish at moving and it's the Alphabet in any logical order? So many comedians listening today have been in touch already to say, yes, James, it's in alphabetical order, which renders everything a little bit chicken and egg. So I don't know is the answer so far, which is usually where you come in also. I don't know. I honestly don't know why you can't get through and some people can. So how does that professor get through when I try every week and can't. I don't know. You just have to be patient. Tracy's in Hamilham. So, tracy, question or answer? I've got an answer. Oh, excellent. Oh, lovely. Okay. To the dezar vu question. Oh, yeah. It's basically your. Your light. You hate that. People saying that when you have. It's almost like having a mini seizure. Yes. When you have a del zoo and it's a. It's a very quick sort of rewiring of your brain. It's like a. Like an electrical misfiring and it triggers the part of your brain where memories are made. So it feels like a memory, but it isn't. Yeah. Yeah. So it's going to make you feel a bit disorientated because you. It's, uh. Your brain's going big. Do you get it much? Yeah, yeah, occasionally. You should have said yeah, when I'm listening to your show, James, every flipping day. What are your qualifications, Tracy? Well, I asked this question about, oh, probably about a couple of months ago, I asked this one and you said it was a brilliant question. I knew that I'd done this before. Do you know when that question came on? I said that. I said, didn't. I said to him, haven't you asked me this before? I'm getting massive deja vu now. But this is not deja vu. This is actually an echo of the real past of events that actually happened. Did you get an answer? Yes. And you said that answer was the best answer you've ever heard anyone say on mystery hour. Really? I don't remember any of this. This is terrifying. So I'm having some sort of breakdown live on the radio. Tracy has earned you a round of applause. There we go. You live and learn. Rosalind, or not, as the case may be. Rosalind in Epsom. Rosalind, question or answer? That's a question. James. Carry on. My 13 year old wants to know. Boy, who's obviously a boy racer, wants to know how fast you have to go through a speed camera before it can't pick you up. I think there's too many variables. What a lovely question. You need to keep an eye on him, though. You shouldn't be having thoughts like that at the age of 13. Absolutely. We were driving through London last Saturday and my husband was explaining about the cameras on top of the traffic lights, and he said, yeah, but how fast you have to go before it can't see you. It'd be to do with the frame rate of the camera, wouldn't it? It would be you'd have to go, oh, no, my brain hurts. I said I'd ring you. Yeah, okay. I know. I'll put it on there. I like that. How fast do you have to go to be invisible to an average speed camera? I like that. I like that a lot. But I don't know if it'll be answerable and obviously it's going to be a massive figure. I don't need to put out a caveat saying, please don't try this at home. Something like the speed of light. I wonder if that is the answer, Professor Haddell. No. How fast do you have to go to avoid being seen by a speed camera? To be invisible to a speed camera, effectively 23 minutes after twelve. Thank you, Rosalind. Thank you. Rosalind's 13 year old boy racer son James is in Woking. James, question or answer? I've got an answer. That's a sloth question. Oh, yeah. Yeah. They. Well, they live really high up for a start. They do, and all their dietary requirements is where they live, which is handy. But they also allow mold to grow on their fur, which makes them really stinky and horrible, so most other animals wouldn't want to eat them. Shut the front door if you were really hungry. You're not going to care about having a smelly sloth, are you? Well, that's the information I got from David Attenborough. David Attenborough. But what, personally or just watching him on the box now? On the box. So sloths are unappealing. Sloths are unappealing to potential predators because they're so skanky? Yes, basically, yeah. It was a very long time ago. I watched it, but it stuck in my head for some reason. I think it's actually. I think it's to do with eagles. Eagles. Eagles. I think their only predator is an eagle because they live in a tree. Their only predator is eagles. And there just aren't many eagles around. Yeah, I think. Well, stay there because Pat in God almighty got an answer as well. Pat, what do you think it is? Right. It's to do with the fact, and it's all interconnected, is that they eat a particularly poisonous plant, so therefore they're actually quite poisonous to other animals themselves. And it's why they move so slowly is because if they moved any faster, the metabolism would speed up and their main food stuff would actually kill them. So animals can't touch them because they are poisonous to other animals because of their diet. Where did you get that from? My daughter's nickname at primary school was Sloth. She's obsessed with them. And it's all I've heard about for the last three years is sloths. Really? Is that because of ice age? Yeah. No, I don't know where it originally said. It said the sloth in the ice age movies, isn't it? She's just absolutely. I mean, at least it sorts out for every Christmas and birthday, what we get. She's absolutely sloth. Crazy sloth. Sloth slopes. That's the reason why. And it also means that instead of them being extinct, is that they're an incredibly successful animal because there's nothing there to eat them and they're the. Their main foodstuff. Nothing else will touch it except eagles. I think, between us, I'm not even sure about the eagle. No, mate, you're not having. I'm having the eagles. Seriously? No, I'm having. I'm not sure. I don't care. It's my show, so I invented mystery. I'm having the eagles. You have the eagles. I'm having the eagles. And I think between the three of us, we. So, James, have you heard anything about the moldy fur? Pat, like. Skanky sloths are inedible. No, the mold is there simply because that they. They just don't move at all. Because it doesn't make them unappetizing. Three days, for heaven's sake. James, mate, do you ever eat Stilton? No, I don't like that. Well, then you're. You wouldn't. But the rest of us do, Pat. You not. You enjoy a bit of Stilton, don't you? Yeah, love it. Never been put off by the mould? Nope. Scrape mold off the top of the jam. You go. You know, when you go to. You go to an old person's house, there's usually a little bit of mold on top of the jam. You scrape it off, you spread your toast. James, I'm kicking you out, mate. You're not having any of it. Me and Pat are going to share this. Round of applause. Are you comfortable with that? That's painful. Well, you got. You got to take your chances. James. Apologies. Pat, are you ready for this? I am indeed. It's got to do with a shortage of predators as well. But. But you, you. I think, obviously, with your qualifications, via your daughter, you get two thirds of the following round of applause. I'm going to keep a third of it. Thank you very much, James. Thank you very much. 27 minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour. Dave's in Kingston. Dave, question or answer? It's a question. You know, I thought it was an experiment in the background going on to test how fast you have to go to avoid being seen by a speed camera. But I must be mistaken. What is your question? Where does the term swan song come from? The swan sing when they part, when their partner dies. I've never heard one, but then I've never been there when one's. You've never been there at the crucial moment? I don't know where I got that from. It's probably nonsense, so I'll pretend I never said it out loud, but if it turns out to be true, I'll claim all the credit for the correct answer. Where does the saying swan song come from? Why is the Alphabet in the order that it is in? How fast do you have to go to avoid a speed camera? And that's a lot, actually. We're ticking them off. It's 1228 now. Got Wayne in. Basil. Hello, mate. Where have you been? Hello, mate. Working. Working hard. You haven't used to be a regular on mystery our way. I used to boast weekly about how many rounds of applause you've received. I don't think I've spoken to you for about six months. I'm a bad now. She's only a year old, you know. I know she is. Where does it go, Wayne? How's she going on? She's listening downstairs. So this will be freaking her out. Yes, it will be. And also it sounds like you're in the bathroom. The phone line's not great. Question or answer? That's an answer. Carry on. The speed camera question. Yeah. 172 miles an hour. Shut the front door. They did it on top Gear. Really? Yeah. What they did was they set up a gasol on their Runway and they got progressively faster cars to go through the camera until they could actually work out which car or which speed it would be to get through a camera. And it was 172. I'm going to tell your words for it because I know you and you're a very trustworthy gentleman. Although if this turns out to be untrue, I will never, ever speak to you again. Just watch, David. It'll be on there at some point. You're right. They come around like clockwork, don't they? With absolute regularity. I don't need to. I'm going to give you a round of applause for Wayne. Thank you very much. Well done. Coming up to 12:30 you're listening to mystery hour, James O'Brien on LBC. So you're ticking them off. Actually, if that's too specific to be wrong. If you ever want to tell someone a convincing lie, make it really specific. It's about 180 miles an hour. I'd have gone, yeah, get lost. It's 172 mph. James. Okay, round of applause. What's the origin of the phrase swansong? Why is the Alphabet in the order that it is in? And don't say alphabetical order, obviously. And any other questions that you want to add to the mix after this? Eleanor Noakes mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 1235. You're listening to mystery. A couple of questions still need answers. Origins of that phrase, Swan song to describe a sort of valedictory performance, a farewell and why is the Alphabet in alphabetical order? Why is the Alphabet in the. In the order that it's in? Is there any reason, any rhyme or reason to it? Zero. 345-606-0973 room for more questions as well. Monica's in Greenwich. Monica, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. If you're in a coma, do you still have bowel movements and do you still menstruate? I don't know about menstruation, but you definitely still have bodily functions. My question was basically around menstruation because that's what me and my partner were talking about. How the hell did this come up? We were talking about, what do people in third world countries use if they can't afford, you know, their product. Sanitary products. Yes. Cloths. Same thing we used before they were invented. Cotton wool or just rags and cloth. But how did you move on comas, then? I thought, if they're in a coma, who changes them? If they do, you know. Well, the nurses do the same. The same people that have to change colostomy bags and catheters and bedding and give, give, give bed baths and all that sort of thing. It'd be quite a horrific job to do. Like, I don't quite. This is. I mean, I'm not. I don't want to have a long conversation about this. Monica, what else do you and your partner talk about when you're out on date night? All sorts of things. Yeah. All right, well, I'm going to say yes and take a round of applause. You're going to answer the question. I have. Yes, they do. That's not really fair, is it? No. Okay. All right. Carry on. Actually, they probably don't, actually, because. Because the sort of. But anyway, round of applause. No, no, no. I thought you were asking about urination. I didn't know you were asking about menstruation. It's a much more tricky question. Yeah, well, this, this one's not going to get on the British Airways special in flight entertainment podcast, is it? 44 million people now have access to mister ours since we signed a deal with British Airways. You could have been one of them. You could, you could have been, but, you know, you're never going to get on with a question like that where people are flying over the Atlantic. They don't want to be thinking about this sort of thing. Sorry. It's all right, Sam. Sam's in Liverpool. Sam, question or answer? All right, mate, how's it going? Not great, mate, to be honest with you, not great at all. Carry on. Well, this show is going great, I enjoy it. Anyway, I was calling in about the Alphabet. Oh, yeah? Yeah. Well, Alphabet, of course, comes from the Greek alpha and beta, and that's where we get most of our letters from, is from the greek language. And the Greeks took on letters from their invasion. So Alexander the Great got the x that we have in our language that comes from his invasions into Persia. And these letters, you know, they, the shapes that we use are Arabic. I mean, we don't use the alpha symbols or the omega or any. Yeah, that comes from the Phoenician. But why are they in the order that they're in? Why do we say words as they are there? They come in an order that. Yeah, but why? But why, Sam, why? You don't have any children, do you? I can tell why. Why there's always a y. Well, that's at the end as well, I guess. But that's. I mean, these, they were old greek letters and then the Romans had more letters because their culture was based on greek culture and we took on the roman culture and they adapted those letters. That's why you've explained the Alphabet's presence in modern culture, but you haven't spent, you haven't explained the basic order of the letters. Yes, because they come from ancient languages, but why did they order them in that order? Because the people before that did. Why did. Yeah, and why did they come from. Where did language come from? I mean, it's, it's, it's gradual, like, what is most easy to say and how you're going to write that down. And eventually the nearest approximation I'm giving is the Greeks because we took a lot of letters from them, but that was the order that they'd come up with from people who'd written long before them as well. I mean, human history. So as a young man clearly possessed of an inquiring mind, you seem, and I can't really criticize you for this, seeing as I suffer from the same condition myself. You're struggling to say the words. I don't know, James. No, I think that's a good estimation. But you don't know why they're in the order they're in? I don't know. I know some of it. Do you? Why does Gamma come after beta? I don't know. It's 1239. Jason Stevenage. J. Question or answer? It's a question. Go on. Right, so in rush hour in London on the tube network. Yeah. How many trains are on the entire network? Why do you want to know? I don't know. It just fascinates me. I live. I lived in London for quite a few years and I just never known how many trains were running all at once. How many trains were running at a busy time on the London. I quite like that, actually. It should be quite easy to find out. Someone will know. I've been to the control room, actually, years ago when I had a go in a simulator and I sat in the front of a carriage as well. It's really. You'd love it, actually, with your interest in the issue. What's surprising when you're down there and you can see because the headlights are on the front of the train, is how many tunnels there are also flying off in different directions. Oh, yeah, yeah. You wouldn't believe it, because when you're in the passenger bit in the carriage, you just feel like you're going through a dark tunnel and there's nothing else to see. And you get the occasional glimpse of maybe a light down one side, but there's loads of different sort of bits and bobs and do you know what else I saw, Jay, while you're here? Come on, pull up a chair, mate. You're going to like this. I saw the tunnels that were used during the blitz as bomb shelters. And because they haven't been accessed since, there's still chalk marks on the wall telling you what direction to go and where to put your bedding and stuff like that. Did you actually drive a train down there? I did. I didn't drive the train. I was in the front of the train with someone else driving and I had to go in the simulation carriage. But I thought the blitz stuff was more interesting. You're more of an engine. Your enthusiasm is more engine based than history based, I'm beginning to realize. Well, now I'm not. I'm not a training guy at all. I don't go down with my little book. It just happens. Let's find out how many there are. J is in. That's two j's. What are the odds on that? Two j's. That is Jay and Jane. Steven is Jane Romford. Jane Romford. What have you got for me? Stewart's inquiry. James. Go on, then. It's the Alphabet. Okay. You can't have a stewards inquiry because I haven't given out a round of applause yet. Oh, all right. Well, a correction then. Carry on. The guy. Yeah, he's right in saying that the phoenician Alphabet and the Greeks and whatnot, but it was only been rearranging alphabetical order since medieval times. It's relatively recent concept that they picked up basically what they done. They got all the words at beginning with a, b and so on, and they listed it all down and it's. Well, to cut a long story short, it's always been like that and always been there, been done that, like that. And it's only since the advent of printing, where they're strictly bringing bragging into ABC order. Alphabetical order. That makes sense. Of course it does. Actually, before the written word was. Was common, we didn't really need to have a formalized Alphabet. But I'm not clear on why they ended up in the order they ended up in. It's one of those things. It's just always been like that. No, mate. No, no, no, no. It's got to be more than that. Why? It can't always have been like that because there must have been a point when it wasn't like that and suddenly it was true. True. I suppose it's. They just wanted to. It's probably lost in the mists of time. It's probably unknowable. But. But you can't say it's always been like that because it categorically and demonstrably hasn't. True. True. All right, I'll take this one as the defeat, then. It's not a defeat. I think of it more as we're all on a journey together, but we just went down a wrong turning. Yeah. And you led us down there. Yeah. Yeah. While boasting about how brilliant you were at navigating. Exactly. Yeah. All right. There you go, J. Two. Jason. That's three days in a row. This is going ridiculous. I feel like an ornithologist. Jason's in home bay. Jason, question or answer? Hello. It's a question. It's a lunchtime like version of the coma. Question. Oh, lord, can you yawn when you're sleeping? No, no, correct. For sure. Absolutely certain. Go on, then, explain. What? Explain. Well, a yawn is. I don't know why, but I've watched a lot of sleeping people and none of them have ever yawned. What? I've never been bothered to shout away, so I don't know. You can't. But why? Well, no, because we have. Hang on in the past on mister, how we've done. Why do you yawn? And the answer is something to do with bringing in more oxygen. Feeling relaxed? No, it's not just that. It's getting more oxygen than usual into your system because you're tired and you need it. Do you see what I mean? So it's a way of getting a bit more temporarily, like a little energy boost. Uh huh. And if you're asleep, you wouldn't need one. It depends. Yeah. If you're flapping arms around in your sleep, you're still pretty chilled. Even if you're flapping your arms around, it's not like you've got a full on, alive, conscious business. I'm gonna. Look what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna take a round of applause for that because I'm greedy and I'm a show off. All right? To be completely honest. Cards on the table. And also because it just sort of ups the ante a little bit in case I've got it wrong. It just prompts people to. They get more pleasure out of making me look like an idiot than they would out of simply getting a round of applause. Cheers, mate. Carry on. 1245 is the time. Is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery act continues how many trains are there on the tube network? We had Nick had Mike Brown in yesterday, didn't he? The head of transport for London or the day before. And he'd have known. Very impressive man, Mike Brown. Actually, I have to say. Origin of the phrase swan song, as in the sort of farewell performance and why is the Alphabet an alphabetical order? I don't think that question has an answer, personally. I think we're realizing that together. But looking is fun. And there's room for a couple more if you're quick. Zero. 345-606-0973 RAF is in West Norwood. Question or answer? Raphael. It's an Arthur James. Are you sure? Yep. Go on, then. It might make you a bit chuffed. It's about a swan soul. Might make me a bit what? Chuffed. Why? Well, because you said it might have something to do with swan singing and it has gone then well, no, I don't think I win any prizes for saying that a swan song might have something to do with a swan singing raph. Well, songs are known for singing, though they aren't, especially not in this country where most of them are mute. Exactly. Like racists on my twitter feed. Carry on. Greek mythology, as a lot of things are, it was Apollo's favorite bird, and I think they attributed the scene to it. It's such a beautiful animal. Have you looked this up? No. No, I like greek history. So basically, the swan is supposed to do a beautiful song before it dies. And in Aesop's fable, there's a fable called the swan and the goose. Yes, I know that. And that's where they. They caught a goose and he proved they thought it was a goose, but it was actually a swan. And they proved it was a swan when it started singing. Yeah, before they kill it. Qualifications. Um, I love greek history. I heard the one about the lions in Greece as well, ages ago. Hang on. I don't know why, mate. I'm feeling a bit untrustworthy today. Or untrusting. See, I've just looked up the Wikipedia page and it gives all the details you've just given in exactly the order you just gave them. Um, what else. What other order would you like? Well, the order that hasn't just been lifted wholesale off Wikipedia. Look, on the Wikipedia page. There's not much more to it. Why'd you bring Aesop into it? Because that's the. That's the one that proves that this one's fine because he's about to kill it. I'm gonna give. I'm gonna give you a round of applause, Rafa. No, I'm gonna give you a round of applause, RAF. But I tell you, mate, if I was your teacher, I'd be keeping a very close eye on you and you'd probably have to move your desk to the front of the class. Oh, no, I don't want a 50 round of applause. I want to be believed wholeheartedly or not. Well, I just. It's too much of a. Why do I just. When you brought Aesop into it, I got suspicious. Why would you bring Aesop into it? Because that's the most. And where do you get third century from as well? Where did you get third century from? This is. That was where it was. Apollo was based around. That's when the whole myth started. There was previous son believed, you know, I mean. And I'd rather not take it. And I mean, Apollo wasn't around in the third century BC. Apollo is a God that was invented by human beings. Yeah, but it wasn't until after. Right, vote. We're gonna have a show of hands. It's for. Stay there. RAF. There's four people in the studio. If you get a unanimous show of hands that you'll believe, you can have it. Otherwise, I'm keeping it. All right? Yeah. Hands up if you believe him. Guess. How many you got? I don't know. How many? Guess. Have a guess. I can't. I see. See what happens when you can't look stuff up on Wikipedia? You haven't got a Scooby Doo. It didn't even get a finger. It's 1254. Paul's in stowmarket. Lovely part of the world. Paul, question or answer? I believe I've got an answer to the. What? One Alphabet. Really? Yep. Go on, then. Did you just use the phrase educated guess? Yes. Barry's in Barnhurst. Barry, question or answer? Answer to your swan song question. Yes. Right. No, no, hang on. The last way you got it right. The last bloke, he just looked it up on Wikipedia. Oh, I didn't look this one up. I did know it. Well, no, you go on then, because we've got to give someone the round of applause. Right. The most common swan in the country is the mute swan. Correct. And that one doesn't. It makes noises, but it has no song. And common folklore had it that the only time it ever sang was just before it died. And most people did. That's why you really. And it does actually start. That myth started in ancient Greece. And the swan is sacred to Apollo. And it also. Did you know, it pops up in Aesop's fables, the story of the swan and the goose. Barry. I bet that's on Wikipedia. Round of applause for Bazaar. Well played, Barry. Greg's in Wandsworth. Greg, question or answer? Question, please. Yes, go on. On an english football pitch. Yes. At the edge of a goalkeeper's 18 yard box. It has a semicircle. Oh, I know this. What is the point? Just ask it really slowly. What's the point? No, slowly. Because I'm trying to think of the answer. Ask it slow. I've got some phone lines free, actually, if you want to dive in quickly, I need a couple of answers. Start again, Greg. Even slower than usual. Okay, James. On the edge of a UK english football pitch. Yeah. Semicircle at the edge of an 18 yard box. What is the purpose? Because I don't think a goalkeeper can handball it in that park. No, no. But I don't think players are allowed into it when a penalty is being taken. Oh, okay. Okay. That makes sense, actually. Am I going to get away with that? I think so. I think that is the answer. But I mean, you say qualifications, I say I just got it somewhere. Have we got another answer on this one? Albert's in Croydon. Stay there, Greg. Albert, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Go on, Albert. For the football question, the reason for the arc on the edge of the penalty box is so that you maintain a certain distance from the penalty spot. So when you're taking a penalty on that arc. So they maintain. I forget what this is. 12 meters. Doesn't matter. So it's so that the person that the people not taking the penalty can't be too near the ball. Absolutely. So I got it right. And what are your qualifications? I used to play a lot of football, mate. There you go, Greg. How about that, mate? Perfect. There you go. Round of applause. Give it to Albert. Give it to Albert. Seriously. No, give it all to. No, I do not want it. Albert, you take it all. All right, thank you very much, David. There we go. Has he gone? Can I have mine now? 1257 is the time and questions that we didn't get answers to. I thought we would do the tube train. How many tube trains are on? Let's. Hang on. Let's squeeze an Ian in Dartford. Ian, question or answer? Hello, James. How are you? You alright? Yeah, I'm great. What's on your mind? Right. How is sound kept on a record or like a CD? Not well, no, you can't have both. They're two very different processes. Now, listen, let me finish, all right? Not how did it get there? Yeah. What keeps it there? Right. If you put something somewhere, you have to contain it. Yeah? What stops it from going? Come on, it's a fair one. What, so. So what keeps the sound inside your CD? Yeah. Or record. What stops it. Stop from disappearing? But you mean as if. As if it was. As if it would sort of fade out eventually over time? Yeah, yeah, that's what I mean. Yeah. Come on, it's a fair question. I mean, it's. It's a. It's a question on. On many, many levels, right? Almost all of them absurd. Are you gonna try and get me an answer? The question doesn't make sense. If the record, it scratches for 3 hours today, you just got it on you. You're gonna get me an answer or not? I can't. I'm out of time. I can't, Ian. I can't. I'm out of time. Oh, pardon. Well, I can't do it tomorrow. There's no mystery. Out tomorrow. Also, don't come on here making in sort of indeterminate grunting noises. Sorry, guys. All right. Marks out. Ten for today's show. Yeah, it's great show today. Go on in. What did you say? Sorry? Marks out of ten. What? For today's show. Well, you would have got ten out of ten if you'd accepted my question. I'll give you eleven. Tip for another day and we can park the surrealism and return to reality. I'm James O'Brien. This is LBC. Sheila Fogarty's next.