How am I 'vulnerable'?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. And now we're here, your weekly opportunity to achieve sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. I don't have a great deal to add this week, actually. Well, there's a prize, isn't there? There's a wonderful mystery out board game for my favourite contributor. That's all you have to do, you just have to be my favourite contributor. But that's not quite true. You have to provide my favourite contribution. And if it were possible for 20 people who I've spoken to before to ring in, I couldn't pick a favorite just based on history. My favourite contribution of the day will win a mystery outboard game. Full terms and conditionsbc dot co dot UK. And speaking of websites, if you want to buy your own mystery outboard game, then you can go to Mysteryaud dot co dot UK. It's a brilliant game. I can say that because I had nothing to do with its actual conception, it's just my face on the box. But you don't have to. You can turn the box upside down while you're playing, can't you? You could use it as a sort of receptacle, put your sandwiches in it. Or you could just put some stickers over it or something like that. Anything like that. Or you could draw a moustache, a funny moustache on it, and some spectacles like Groucho Marx. So much you could do, really. You still get change out of pound 20. Should we just start, then? Just go on with it, I think. No repetition. That's my job, really. It's fallen apart recently. I've had so many colleagues over the years now that it's almost impossible to keep track of who can remember whether or not something's ever come up before. If it's come up in the last couple of weeks, I've got a 52 48 chance of remembering the rest of. It's just up. It's just. It's all over, really. The days of having total recall are long behind me. But I'll do my best. Don't be boring. I know that's in the era of the beholder. It's also arguably a bit pot kettle, but motoring questions generally don't. I mean, like. Well, even. That's probably. That's what I mean. That's the great thing about rules, isn't it? The sound they make when you break them. I don't even know that that some of the questions that have had been motoring adjacent in recent weeks have been quite fun. Been quite fun. I can't go back over all the greatest hits. Don't say. Basically, let's just start, shall we? Seriously, James, is an Inverness, James question or answer? It's a question, James. And first time caller. Thanks for. Thanks for taking the call. So I have been lucky enough to have two weeks leave from work. I have a desk based job, a pretty executive based job, and I find that very regularly, and getting the work done to get on holiday and hand over and make sure everything's done on the first few days. And again, it happened this time for about five days a week. You get really ill. You go and leave and you get really ill. It's such a cruel, cruel blow, isn't it? Like a little kid running to the school gates and then you, hey, we break up, we break down. We don't care if school falls like you trip over your shoelaces and you're laid up in bed for two or three days. It's terrible. Exactly. So the question is, is there a medical reason for that? You know, does the system know that you. You're no longer running adrenaline, you're no longer having to get everything done and it kind of goes, right. Okay, I'm taking you down now, but is there a medical reason for that? It seems to be that when I speak to friends and colleagues that work in the same type of work, and less so manual work, because they tend to finish and they tend to do their job and they tend to work in manual work. They kind of tend to work their hours and then finish and then they go back and they do the rehearsals, etc. But those that are kind of death space where they are working longer, when you relax. When you relax, it lets the baddie. So is there a medical reason for that? Is there any reason? I like it. It's a great question, actually. I like it a lot. Hopefully someone can provide us with an answer. I look forward to hearing it. I think I've got better over the years. But then my job's not exactly. It's taxing between ten and one, or between eight and one, but once it's. Once it's finished, it's not that bad. Eight minutes. But I used to suffer from that, Terry. Oh, I used to drive me nuts. I used to get tonsillitis. As soon as it was really bad. I had to have an injection in my bum once. I love the idea of someone who's just turned on the radio, like, just that moment right there. And they go, pardon, what I thought, I'm here for the news, I'm here for some scintillating current affairs commentary. What's going on? Who is this person and why is he talking about his bum? Chris is in lead. Chris, question or answer? Good afternoon, James, love the show. My question is, James, when people were prospect were digging for coal or iron ore or whatever, anything you like. It doesn't matter, does it? How on earth did they know that what they were looking for was there rivers? Honestly? No. This has been puzzling me for years. Well, I've actually been down as a visitor to a coal mine and it occurred to me then I thought, well, how on earth, as a physicist. A physicist in a coal mine. As a visitor, years ago, James, I went down and said, oh, a visitor. I thought you said a physicist. A physicist in a coal mine. Well, I thought you should bloody know. You should know. Why are you asking me? Visitor? What, just like a tourist on a tourist trip? Yeah, I was a visitor. We helped. I was instrument in helping the miners during the miners strike. It's a long time ago. Oh, fantastic. Thank you. As a thank you, we got a visit down a coal mine. Where was it? Which coal mine was it? That was. That was a place called. People in West Yorkshire all know it. I think it's near Castleford and it's. And it's a place called Leadstone luck. Right you are. And it's been close, but I've always been fascinated by the underground. I'd love to have done that. I went down a tin mine in Cornwall. I think. I think. I think the answer would be. Yeah, that some of it makes its way to the surface and that's when you start digging. Could be, couldn't it? Especially with diamonds. You find a diamond somewhere, what are you going to do? Get your spade? Yeah, absolutely. And then rivers. If there's gold coming down a river, you'd probably go back to the hill that the river was starting. And then you dig into that hill, go in from the side, like in Tom's. Possibly so, but when you consider the expense and the manpower involved in digging, I mean, I think less than luck was it was only a matter of about 150ft. So it was quite shallow, really. Yeah. Some of these. I mean, some of these mines are absolutely incredibly deep, aren't they? Yeah, but they weren't. They weren't deep to start with, Chris. No, no, of course. So they'd have found coal and then carried on digging because they're looking for the seam aren't they? Obviously, yes, but there's loads. There's more than one. There's lots of seams, I think. So. You don't you, you know, you've got a seam here and then you think, well, we'll have another dig, see if we hit another one. And if you dig too far, they give up on it. It could well be the answer, couldn't it? Could be. It's a great question. I mean, it's such a great question, actually. There. That's got. That's got a great deal of knowledge on this thing, I'm sure. Why would you start digging? Why would you start digging? What would be. Because you're not just going to do it randomly. Or maybe you do. What about with oil? Do you just start drilling and see? Are you going to do it? I mean, going back, if you're going back 200 years, would you go. Would you. Would you start digging all that distance if you thought there was only going to be sufficient for. No, this is the bit where I think you've got the rock. I don't think they dig and dig and dig and dig. I think the only deep mines are the ones where they got lucky early, but they've now dug it all out. We shall find out. We shall find out. I like it. Thanks very much indeed. No, thank you very much. I shall do my level best. That's very kind of you to say so. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time Ernest is in Croydon. Ernest, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. So, my question is to do with handwriting. When you look at handwriting, it seems that those in the past have better handwriting than us right now. You know, just looking at going to school or, you know, when I was at school, we had. You had to. In primary school especially, you had to write with pencil before you could use pen. So you had to prove your handwriting was good, but now still do. Or at least you did ten years ago. Yeah, but nowadays my question is basically, why is handwriting going worse? Oh, use your noodle, man. Come on. I know. Typing. Yeah, typing. But is there any other reason? Because. Yeah, I think. I think in the victorian time, everybody wrote the same. I tell you. Who's got beautiful handwriting? Are you interested in this? Yeah, yeah, go on. Absolutely beautiful writer is Michael Whitehall, you know, off the telly, Jack's dad. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I got a lovely note of him the other day. His handwriting is absolutely beautiful. And oddly enough, we went to the same school, although clearly not at the same time. And I suspect that everybody who was at that school at that time, would probably have very similar handwriting. In my very, very earliest days of prep school, I think they were still almost trying to teach us all the same handwriting style. And it just must have been the end of that era, because we certainly, I don't remember it kicking off into the second year, possibly not even the second term. So the victorian practice of uniformity, you know, that all children who were lucky enough to go to school would have been encouraged to. Right, copper plate, I think, is one example of it. And it was very much a mark of, you know, moral rectitude. Tidy hand, you know, where they're tidy minded, all of that kind of strict uniform, very rigorous discipline and stuff. So that would be the bedrock of tidy handwriting. And that would have stayed even as it became less formal and less enforced over the decades and then into the 20th century. And then probably by the time you hit the sixties and then the seventies, everyone's chilling, a bit, relaxing, and then along come keyboards. Not so much typewriters as computers and smartphones. And you just don't do it anymore. You just very, very, very rarely use longhand, which would be the final sort of nail in the coffin of general tidy handwriting. Okay, fair enough. I'm taking that. I'm going definitive on that one. Okay, qualifications? Best selling authority. Great, thank you. Ernest 1240. Coming out to quarter past. Squeeze in Sian, who's in bletchingly and Surrey? Sian. Question or answer? It's a question. Please change. Carry on. Why do I take my reading glasses off? To hear better on the phone. Also, I close my eyes when somebody passes me a speech. Has this dish got the right amount of speakers? Yes. So my question is, it's sort of. Well, you've kind of answered it, I think. Well, the question was, James, do our senses work better individually rather than in collaboration? If I part is or am I just odd? No, you're not odd, because a lot of people listening will recognize this. It may even reach to the. Sticking your tongue out a bit when you're threading a needle, but it may not. So we'll leave that out of the equation. The idea that if you shut down one sense, does it enhance the other seems quite plausible. Seems quite plausible to me. But we shall find out. Oh, brilliant. Okay, we'll do our level best. Thank you very much indeed. Taking your reading glasses off so that you can hear better on the phone and closing your eyes when you taste something. I like it. It is 12:15 so we've got the senses in isolation. I can't imagine there's going to be any form of stewards inquiry on the handwriting question. That was a beautiful answer, I felt from me. How do you know where to dig a mine? I mean, are there any indications or is it just dumb luck? It seems unlikely. And is there a medical reason for the phenomenon of people getting a little bit poorly on the first few days of their holiday? 12:15 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 18 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is well underway. I'll remind you of questions that need answering shortly. But I don't need to now. Louise is in Chippenham. Louise, question or answer? It's an answer. James, good morning. Good morning to you. It's an answer to the Cole question. Oh, marvelous. Right. Now, have you heard of something called the order of the strata? Yes. Okay, so that was put together by William Smith, as you sound like. You know, I wouldn't have been able to name William Smith, but I have memories of this from geography lessons. Yeah. The map that changed the world is a production of his. And he recognized that there is a set order that the sedimentary rocks would lay down. So you might have a typical sequence of a shale and then a sandstone and then perhaps a bit of a mudstone above that, and then you might get a coal. Right. And then above that you might get another mudstone and so on. And you can fix these in time using the included fossils. So you know where you are in time and then you can figure out where you are in space. So it's a great predictive tool. So if you know the geology of a particular, you can pretty much guarantee where you're going to find the coal. And just to make sure, of course, you put down some test drilling and you get the core up and the. But where would you get. Where would the first thing come from without, before the test drilling? Why would you think it's a better idea to have a test drill there than there, for example? Well, you go out and do some mapping and you see where the rocks might be folded or where they're flat, these sort of layers, as they go up and down. And you cite your, your test drilling rigs accordingly. So there's never anything. I mean, it's not like a bit of diamond appears on the surface and you think, oh, we're going to dig here, then. No, no, not really like that at all. Thank you for. Thank you for. Thank you for dismissing me so politely. Thank you for not saying, you stupid boy. At that point, actually, I thought I got to answer this. Yes. Then I had to rush and put my teeth in before I called. Well, thank you. I'm honored, Louise. And then I've been thinking how on earth I can explain this, because it's not. It's not necessarily intuitive, but I did used to be a coal equeration geologist. And I also used to be an underground geologist. Well, there can't have been many women doing that as a job. I can't imagine. No, no, indeed not. I learned to get into the change house completely, shower and get into my day clothes in, I think, eight minutes because all the men were waiting outside to get in. How did you get into it? What drew you to it, Louise, if you don't mind me asking? Well, I always sort of like rocks. Yes. And I went to. To kings to read geology and graduated in 81. Then we emigrated over to Zimbabwe and then worked there for a few years in an underground nickel mine. And then we moved down to South Africa and I got a job looking for coal. How amazing. So you look at the topography, do you, slightly, and then get an idea of what the start. A lot of it's done from initial surface mapping. Yes. And that ups the odds on you hitting coal if you go in there. It's all about reducing the chances of failure as you go through these layers of investigation. Sounds like. Yes, exactly that. I'm going to give you the highest honour I can give you, Louise, because your qualifications for answering this question are so impressive. So this is. No, no, this is. I don't know how far have you. Make sure you definitely got your teeth in. I have, yes. They're wobbling a bit now. I want to have anticipation. Let them wobble. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Oh, James, you're a little pocket. You're a little pocket of sanity in this crazy, mad, sad world. I hope so. I hope so. You and Sheila. So thank you both for what you do. Well, what a lovely thing to say. I shall make sure Sheila is made aware of your kind words as well. And you, well, thank you. What an amazing. What an amazing story you must have to tell. What an amazing career and life. Thank you, Louise. And we can cross that one off the list. Hey, Chris, mate, that was a cracking question, wasn't it? The quality of the answer. Absolutely. Knocking it out of the park. Christine is in Norwich. Christine, question or answer? Hello. Who decides at what age? I know the younger people is not. Not the thing that. At what age does the bank decide that vulnerable persons should be put on the account? This has happened to me and for the last three months, I've had difficulty in accessing various things without being sort of, things terminated. So I wasn't told. I am 90, but I'm right. My marbles are still here, clearly. And I wondered why, you know, is there some rule that they have to put there or. It seems to me that they're keeping an eye on things a bit too much. What a brilliant question. Well, I was cross. I bet you were. I would be as well. Yes, but I. Did you say, who are you calling vulnerable mushrooms? Well, yes, but perhaps I am. I won't have as much knowledge of the Internet, but I do manage. Ah, that might be it. I wonder whether it's got the likelihood of you being the victim of a scam, for example. No, no, I don't know, because I started in February when I tried to buy something online and the next thing that pinged on was authentication. Well, I have to do that as well. Yes, I know, sorry. And I attempted to do it, but without results. So I have a card reader. Yes. And I just wonder who says, right, we'll put that on her account. I mean, they may be doing it with the best of intent. I'm sure they are, but they should probably have spoken to you about it. They didn't. And it took me. And I had to go to the bank to find out, because the call center. I'm not allowed to give you that. What did the bank say? What did the bank say? Well, the girls looked on my account and I. She said, ah. So she said, well, I'll show you. And she did. And I said, well, I didn't know that. And that accounts for everything that's been going on for the last three months. Yes, but they didn't tell me. I would have accepted it if they'd have asked me. Who decides? Did you ask her or was it above her pay grade? Did you ask her? I think so. It was above her pay grade. So someone, somewhere has decided to stick this thing on your account and that means you have to get the app. Get the app? Get the app. Every time he rang up, you see? Yes, I checked by on the telephone. This is what does it. So you don't. They don't want you on the telephone, they want you on the Internet. And I'm not keen on that. No, I can fully understand. I hope someone will know the answer. Christine. Well, try. Shall we? Why not? We've got nothing to lose. The old lady needn't be quite so enraged. Listen, I can't. You're definitely not silly, I know that. No, but you are old. I can't. There's not a lot I can do about that. That's a terrible thing. You just told me you were 90. You just told me you were 90. I'm old enough at 51. I can challenge, silly, but I can't really challenge old, can I? Don't mind. I'm not. I don't mind how old I am, but I'd rather know what I'm being laid. I could not agree more. I shall find out for what. I shall endeavor to find out for you. Ideally, from what we need. What we need is someone who's in the business of sticking these vulnerables on people, isn't it? Do their own thing, don't they, Banks. So, yeah, they certainly do. Law unto themselves. Leave it with me, Christine. Thank you. Thank you. Take care. 27 minutes after twelve is the time. That's a great question, isn't it? Who decides how and why? Because that has happened, clearly, to Christine's surprise. Mark Sinfarne. Mark, question or answer? I've got a question. Carry on. Hello. So my lovely wife Lorraine bought me at Christmas a little trip around Yorkshire for a week, just driving around the dales. I've never really been up there. It was gorgeous. Absolutely fantastic. And it was. Which bits. Where did you stay? What sort of places did you stay at? We were in the Howard, where the brontes came from. Yeah, absolutely. Right up on the moors. So you draw a big circle around there and we basically went in all directions and delighted. Stunning place. Lots of lovely pub lunches, pies, you name it. I put on three stone in the process. Now, I think, well, this is topical, because we've got Easter coming up and I'm going to talk about sheep and lambs. Excellent. In the area, there are, as you know, loads and loads of old, ancient stone walls hemming in fields for livestock to be controlled. Yes. And these things are hundreds of years old, mostly dry stone walls, and a lot of them, particularly ones with sheep in them, have been extended in height by wire deer fencing, essentially by maybe another foot. Two foot, yeah. They lay stakes at the diagonal along the wall and they stick deer fencing up on top of it to raise the level. So what have we got? We now evolved into Olympic standard high jumping. Have the sheep got higher or have the walls got smaller? Well, exactly. Well, I don't think the walls have got smaller because there's too many of. Everywhere you go. They've got the same fencing. Yes, but they're probably. I mean, historically, dry stone walls would be a bit like painting the fourth bridge. They'd be in a constant state of repair and restoration, no doubt. However, if that's the case, where have all those stones gone? Have fallen down over the years, because they're not there. And indeed, newer walls are built higher. So, no, that's a great question. Have a sheep's breed have changed, making those walls collapse and the stones being taken away to make other walls? I don't know, it just seems really odd that these walls have worked for centuries and centuries. I don't know how long we've been doing sheep in Yorkshire, but for all that time, they were high enough. I like it. It's a great question. Very observant of you as well. So why have the walls on sheep farms in Yorkshire got higher? Essentially, yes. ZEro 345-606-0973 thank you, Mark. Amelia Cox is here with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 it's 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why have the walls surrounding sheep, flocks of sheep in Yorkshire got higher, particularly with the augmentation of metal poles on top of the dry stone dikes, I think, technically. Thank you to whoever reminded me of that on Twitter. If it's got mortar, it's a wall. If it's got. Well, we always said dry stone walls when I was a kid and I went to school up there, so we used to know a little bit about them. Why do our senses improve when we shut down another one? So when you close your eyes to taste something or you take your glasses or turn the radio off when you're parking the car, that kind of thing, does that work? Make sure. Be sure to listen back on global player if you do turn your radio off while you're parking the car and then you leave it off when you get out, don't forget, you can listen to all LBC's radio shows on global player, where you can rewind. I'm only doing this because Sheila just walked past the window and I'm being teacher's pet. You can listen to all LBC's radio shows on global player. So if you do turn it off when you're parking the car, because it enhances your other senses when your ears are not being bothered, then be aware of that. We've done the mining. Beautiful answer on the mining question. I went, I think, all in on the handwriting question. And is there a medical reason for why we get poorly early on in our holidays? Tom's in Ongar. Tom, question or answer? Question, please carry on. So when you go to a petrol station. What? What, I've gone out. You might be filling up a lawnmower. Is that still technically motor? I don't think it is. Carry on. You're over the line. All right. Thank you. You're welcome. Yeah. So, you know, like, you go, you might top up to, say, 20 quid and you might aim for it and slightly miss. Yeah. If you add in, say, five p extra, is there any point. Are you actually getting that much? How accurate is it? Because if you turn the. If you turn the nozzle upside down, a little bit will drip out. Yeah. So is there any points, really, other than just making yourself a little bit happier? I don't quite follow. So is there any point in hitting the mark dead on? Well, yes. So are you getting three p's extra worth of. Is the measurement accurate enough for threepence worth of petrol to be measurable? Yeah, exactly, yeah. And how much is it reasonably. You know, you might. The ten p mark might be feasible, but is the one p mark really going to be making a one p exactly one p's worth of difference? Because, as you say, there's always a little bit left on the nozzle. Yeah, pretty much. It's an odd one, that, Tom, but I get it. I mean, because there is. There's an odd sort of Zen like state you reach when you fill the car, isn't there? I'm not a big motorist, as you probably know, but I do feel the car more often than I drive, actually, before going in to buy Jaffa cakes for everybody and then getting back into the passenger seat. But it is quite Zen like. And then you do you get that sort of weird period of contour, especially these days when you spend a lot of time going, how much? What? There's been some mistake. This is outrageous. Is there a hole in the tank? Where is it all going? I've never seen these figures before in a petrol station. Four corps. But it does that. Yeah. Okay, so how accurate is the. Is the thingy on the thingy? Yes, please. There you're on. There you go. So a combination of thingies. How accurate is the thingy on the thingy and the petrol station thingy? Barbara is in Welch. I'm in Wiltshire. Wiltshire. Barbara, question or answer? Good afternoon, Jane. It's a question. Carry on. I've got two large pine cones in the garden which aren't attached to a tree. I've had them probably for about three or four years now, maybe a bit longer, but ornamental pine cones, Barbara? Well, no, I picked them off a tree, so they're stuck out in the garden. But they're not the little ones, they're the big giant ones. Yeah. So they're ornamental. Oh, okay. They're ornamental, yeah. Anyway, when it rains, they close up. Yeah. When it's sunshine, they open up. Yeah. And I want to know why and how. Because they're dead. They're not on the tree anymore. Yeah, but, yeah, but it's the shape of the wood, innit? Is it? Yeah. So the way the water softens the wood a bit, so it expands, and as it expands, the pine cone opens, and then as it dries, the pine cone closes again. There. Well, there you go. That's physics, that is. They're a better forecast than the weather, man. What do they start opening before it actually rains? Just when the air is more. When the air is moist. When there's moisture in the air. Yeah. When there's moisture in the air. Yeah. I know when it's going to rain and I know when it's going to sunshot. You just buy your coat. They'd have burnt you as a witch in the olden days, wouldn't they, with your pine cones? Coneology. Barbara's invented coneology. Pine coneology. I love it. But listen, I'm going to leave it on the board. I'm going to give myself a round of applause because I'm greedy like that, but I'm going to leave. Thank you. But I'm also going to leave it on the board just in case. It's not what I said it must be, though. I can't think what else it would be. Okay, thank you, Barbara. Take care. Keep an eye on your cones. Lee's in Enfield. Lee. Question or answer? It is an answer. Carry on, Lee. Sorry, I'm very excited. This is the first time after six years that I've decided to call you. Well, fantastic. I'm excited now, too. After that, after that tribute. Carry on. It is the question to why the good lady with all her marbles gets questioned at the bank. Yes. So, effectively, lovely Christine. One of the protected characteristics, characteristics that the FCA deems as potentially vulnerable. What is her age? Just her age. So when she. We did. I should have asked when her birthday was, shouldn't I? Because she. But she was 90, mate. I mean, surely it would have kicked in earlier. Absolutely. So it's not that characteristics. It covers a multitude of sins. So effectively, someone who is maybe 18 and beginning their financial life could be vulnerable and anyone over the age of 75 may be deemed vulnerable and after 85, additional measures kick in. Vulnerable to what? Lee. Lee Enfield. I've just noticed Lee Enfield. Like the rifle. Lee Enfield liked the rifle. You're not familiar with it. Lee Enfield is a famous. Have you never watched any westerns? I've watched westerns, but generally the most famous rifle ever, the Lee Enfield rifle, the bolt action rifle. British armies, british army used it until about 1950, the mid 1950s Lee Enfield. We used it in CCF, in cadet. I mean, I know that's not your name, you're Lee and you're in Enfield, so it's not that exciting, but I just noticed it on the screen, it was a. It was a felicitous juxtaposition of words. Lee. Anyway, I've distracted you now. What are you vulnerable to? What is the fine? I think that you gave people a free mystery error answer. There you go. I did, actually. So vulnerable to what, for example, so effectively, people of a certain age, they or generation, they may have been used to, people who maybe knocked on their door and said, look, I can either do your windows or I can fix your gutters. And they would have been completely used to that. And they would say, yeah, absolutely, I'd go ahead. And then they may go to their bank and try and withdraw a large amount of cash for paying. So effectively it's just putting in place a safeguard to ensure that people who, without telling them, well, this is the thing. So I heard, I caught the tail end of the call from Christine that the girl in the bank didn't really understand what it was in place for. Yes. So they can advise the customer why it's in place. However, I'd probably understand that they might be a little remiss in case it seems a bit ageist. Yeah, it could be offensive. I think Christine didn't mind the actual designation. She just didn't really appreciate the absence of explanation. Yeah. And she doesn't have the app, she doesn't like Internet banking. That presumably would add a layer of vulnerability to her position. Would it get. Well at that point? It certainly gets harder because you're effectively pushing certain individuals out of. Out of how they choose to bank if people decide they want to come down the bank. But even online there are certain measures in place that you can only maybe send a certain amount through each day. As a faster payment. Yeah. So they should probably have told her. Yeah, but it's nothing for her to worry about. No, no, absolutely. Quite the opposite. No. If Christine can go down to the bank and say, I absolutely understand what it is I'm doing with my account and why I'm doing it, there should be absolutely no safeguard. But the. Why do you think it might have dropped then, in February of all time? I mean, what might it have been that kicked it off? I mean, they established that she wasn't going to download the app. I mean, why? I think that was what also mystified her. It was the suddenness of the designation. It may well have been the fact of her particular transaction. So, for example, if someone's just going into their, you know, a local store and using their bank as they normally would, then nothing would trigger. Okay, if, for example, there was, say, a larger amount that was either being transferred to a new Payee or she was trying to draw money out of her bank account in cash. Yeah. Which, again, falls somewhat into the generational element, then it would be. That triggered it. Yeah. Okay. Qualifications. I am a financial adviser. Well done. I like that. Good answer. There you go. Great work, Lee. Great work. It wasn't. It was. I'm thinking of the Winchester for the Cowboys. The Lee Enfield for the. For the army. I did correct that, actually. Um, Keith. Not that Keith. A different Keith. They weren't in westerns, they were Winchesters. Ian in Manchester as well. I've got a Stetson that my wife hates, so I'll dominate in your honor. Stetson, mate, in Enfield. You can't walk around Enfield in a Stetson, can you? I don't know. Sorry. I was. But I was born in Boron Wood. I'll walk around there. Oh, that's fine, then. It's 1244 and Mike's in Waltham Abbey. Mike, question or answer? It's a question, James. Please carry on. What happens to a person's assets if they're sentenced to a long term imprisonment? What have you done, Mike? Nothing yet. Nothing yet. What are you planning? That's between me and the wife, Kerry. Meaning? When you say assets, what do you mean? Well, you might have a 5 million pound house and all the bits and pieces that go, the trillions that go with it, and there's no one else to look after it. It may not be the proceeds of crime. It's still yours. So, I mean, you just have to make arrangements for someone to look after it, wouldn't you? Or give it. Put it in the hands of a letting agency or it goes to rack and ruin. Well, I mean, you still have bills to pay, you still have council tax and the like. Yeah. It's a nice question that I shall find out for you. Who sort of runs your affairs? How are the assets controlled if you go to prison and you have no kind of family or no next to kin or whatever the word is. What do you give people? What's that name? When you give people something when they're old? Rights of attorney. Power of attorney. There we go. Thank you, Mike. Don't do it, mate. It's not worth it. It's not worth the bird. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1249 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Let's just crack on, shall we? Cheryl's in Fraserborough in Aberdeen. Show Cheryl. Question or answer? Hello. Hello. An answer, please. Yours. Okay. About the stone walls. Oh, great. Yes, go on. Are you a sheep farmer? I am, yes. These days I don't keep them for meat, though. I keep them for their fleece. Yes. Yes, I am. The ground, over time, builds up with, you know, mock and grasses and things. Yeah, of course it does. That's what I meant by the walls getting smaller. Yes. But also these days, the sheep are actually bred bigger. Yeah. And more muscular, so they can help over those. So, I mean, literally, that's it. Spring lambs. Would that make a difference? Would you? I mean, would it be seasonal? Is a spring lamb more likely to clear a wall than an old war? An old war sheep? No, an Auckland, a hill sheep is far more likely to get over a wall, to be honest. So the walls get smaller as a consequence of the ground rising, which happens, obviously, and the sheep get friskier as a consequence of selective breeding. Yep. And therefore, a good old fashioned dry stone wall would be. It'd be a lot cheaper for you to put a metal fence on top of a dry stone wall than to get the dry stone. If you can find a dry stone wall builder to come around and do it, it'll take month. Absolutely love it. Yeah. I love that. That's it. That's a beautiful answer and qualifications. We already know you're a sheep farmer. A round of applause for cheryl, please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And I hope Mark was pleased with that question, because it was. It was a really neat question and answer, Mark. Very tight. I like that. Wayne's in York. Wayne, question or answer? It's an answer of sorts, James. Go on then, Wayne. Right. A bit of a North Yorkshire thing going on here. There is, isn't it? Yeah. I'm going to wample forth on Thursday. Make sure you keep your hands in your pocket. Right. So basically, it's regards to the heightened senses question. Yes, I am. Unfortunately, for the past about 18 months, I'm gradually going blind. Oh, I'm sorry, mate. And. Oh, don't know. Don't apologize. The kids love it because they're getting the guide dog. Oh, you've heard it. Go on. Yeah. So this is this dog I could. I could go on forever about the tricks to play on me. It's fantastic. I love that you're so upbeat about it. Go on, talk to me about. This is going to be the senses, then, isn't it? It is, it is. So this is a clinical study of one, and that one person is me. And my hearing has heightened, I would say, somewhere between 25 and 50% since I started losing my vision. It's. It's because I've got something called optic neuropathy, right. Which means that my eyes aren't talking to my brain properly and not sending the right messages through. And I think it must be something to do. I wish I was in biology, because it must be something to do with the remapping. Yeah, yeah. Parts of your brain possibly recalibrating or something like that. But you can. How do you measure that, then? How would you. What would you. If I said to you, go on what you want about. You'd say, no, seriously, this happens. Yeah. How could I quantify you? Yeah, that's the word I was looking for. Thank you. First and foremost, I've got two small children and I wish I was going deaf rather than. Yeah, okay, so. And the telly probably as well. The volume on the telly as well, if you're listening. Volume on the telly's halfway down now. That's fascinating from what it was. Yeah, that'll do that. Qualifications. You've already told us. Why are you going to apple forth on Thursday? What's happening at Ampleforth on Thursday? We're just meeting up with my sister because it's such a beautiful place to go. She lives in Nesburgh. I live in thirst. Right. So it's like almost somewhere in the middle. Nice one. But don't give me a round of applause. I don't need one of them. Oh, God. Of course I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I'll make sure the volume, Keith, turn it down a bit as well. I don't want to give him a scare. I go to. Are you going to Helmsley or are you actually going to Ampleforth? Ampleforth. We're actually going to Ampleforth. Ampleforth. Are you to have a look around the grounds of the school and stuff or just to sit in the village and have lunch? Just to go. Just to go. And my mum. My mum's got something about Ampleforth. She's really. Yeah, she really wants to go there. So we're all meeting up over there. I was about to recommend places to go and then I remembered, you know, the last time I was there was to get expelled 33 years ago. So I don't think my recommendations. My recommendations for a pie at Sam Smiths and probably not worth the paper they're printed on, Wayne. But anyway, here's your low volume. Your low volume. Round of applause. Sounds the same to me, that Wayne, I don't know about you, I think Keith's yanking our chain. You take care, mate. All right? Cheers, buddy. Thank you. Thank you, Wayne. John's in Chelmsford. John, question or answer? I've got an answer. Carry on. It's about the petrol pumps. Oh, yes. Petrol pumps are mechanical. So the meters are mechanical meters. They don't usually. And so once they get past the first couple of liters, they run pretty smoothly after that. And you'll see a sign on the petrol pump. You may not have noticed it, even minimum delivery, two litres. That's because up to the first two litres, the meter is sort of getting into its stride. But after that it's evened up and it's running smoothly and you should be okay. Pretty strong answer. Qualifications? I'm a trading standards officer and inspector of weights and measures. Oh, sweet as a nut, mate. Have a round of applause. Thank you. Lovely work from John. It's a nice one, this, isn't it? It's a nice some weeks mystery. I can be a bit surreal. Some weeks it seems to be an exercise in unintentional comedy and other weeks it sort of ticks almost all the boxes. This, to me, has been really vintage, with fascinating answers and some silliness as well and some really diverting information back to Yorkshire. Chris is there. Chris in Skipton. Question or answer? It's an answer about the dry stone walls on the answer. It's actually around here. They put these long poles with barbed wire on the top in the Haworth area. That's for cattle, not for sheep. So cattle are nosy and they like to rub their necks on walls and put the head over the walls and they pull it back and pull the top stones off. So you put a long pole with some barbed wire on the top. And, I mean, to be fair, the question of rubbing. Yeah, the question was specific to Haworth, but he also thought it was specific to sheep. So between. Between the two of you, you've given the answer various cattle. Yeah, it's very much the cattle. Why they do it. That's fine. Between the two of you, you've given the perfect answer, then, haven't you? Because you've gone multi location and multi species. What are your qualifications, Chris? A cattle and sheep vet in the Skipton area. That'll do nicely. Round of applause. Thank you, mate. So what have we got? We've got prison assets left on the petrol station down the walls. And why'd you get Paulie at the beginning of your holiday? And it's like, we've still got a couple of minutes left. We might be able to squeeze it in. John's in Milton Keynes. John, question or answer? Hi there, James. Very quickly, firstly, thank you very much for whatever you do. I mean, whatever I do, so you're. Well, whatever I do, you're welcome. You're amazing. Guys. I'm only here on holiday, I don't live in the UK. After the beefing, I decided to leave an answer for you. Why do people get ill when they go abroad? Yeah, it's quite simple. It's. It's not the water so much, it's the ice they drink. So you'll have a drink with ice in it? Yes. Yeah. And what you're not used to in your own country is how it's treated. Do you think so? Yes, absolutely. But what I mean, I'm pretty sure that I've had this when I haven't gone abroad. Yeah. You may be a bottled water. That wasn't so good. But what it is, it's literally how the water is treated. My qualifications. I've got a PhD in biochemistry and biochemical analysis. I used to work for Pfizer's. And it's not going to affect everybody because it's. It's. It's. It's. It's about susceptibility and, you know, one member of the family gets poorly and other members don't. No, that's right. And I can't say the right word, obviously, because you're in the radio, but it's like a shed load of something in the sea as well. Yeah. Yeah, that's what it is. It's simple as that. Well, I like. There might be room for another answer, but I don't think it would replace yours. It would just augment it. But there it is. I like that a lot. So, of course, you get a bit poorly your first couple of days of your holiday because you're getting used to the new water. Round of applause. And by the way, if I win your game. Yes, I would like you to auction it for a charity. Oh, you see, that's very kind of you. Luckily, I'm not gonna have to veer into uncomfortable territory now because you're not allowed to win it because you live overseas, so that's a shame. Poor old charity. Thank you, John. Don't allow that kind of thing in future. We can't be doing. We can't be doing that otherwise. Otherwise you just be robbing people blind with you. I. Man alive, I give quite a lot to charity. Or not like, you know, I mean, I don't like to go on about it. Anyway. I'm going to give it to Christine, the geologist, the mining expert, because that was such a delightful call. I think I really am. A lot of competition this week, though, I've got to be honest with you. Louise, Louise. Louise. Louise. Not Christine. Louise. Oh, Lord. It's all going horribly wrong. I think that was emotional blackmail, by the way. I didn't think that was fair. Yeah, no, I'm sure he didn't mean any harm. But of course, he's a lovely bloke cleaning. You give it to anybody else. If somebody says, and also, you can't auction it for charity, you probably get less than it cost in the first place. I've got my bloody great face. Got my bloody great face on the box. Who's gonna go, oh, yeah, I'll have one of them. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player or on the whole show podcast. All LBC shows are there, as well as the world's biggest podcast. Full disclosure. Out early this week, out today, because I'm not here tomorrow. Hugh Laurie in the house. Absolutely lovely man. And obviously, hugely, probably the most modest man I've ever met. So it's quite a meeting of opposites. Anyway, have a listen, download global player for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Sawbrick with you at four. I'm not back until Tuesday. Time for Sheila Fogarty. Now.