Do we really eat spiders at night?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien. I know what you're thinking. Every hour's a mystery hour at the moment. Long may it continue. It gives us plenty to get our collective teeth into. But this is a mystery, or mysteries, plural, of a rather more palatable and indeed, gentle nature. You have. I just locked myself out of the studio. If you're wondering why I'm out of breath, very, very close that to of a career first, of not being here when the lights came back on, I know that you have somewhere inside your mind, somewhere in the back of your brain, a question to which you would really like to find an answer. It may be that the question has been preying on your mind for months, years, decades. It may be something the kids have said to you recently that you've been unable to answer, or it may just be something that occurs to you in the course of the next 54 or 55 minutes. The point is this. Somebody else listening to this program. Program will know the answer, and they'll know it because they know stuff. They're not going to google it or look it up or anything like that. They're going to know stuff. And it was really interesting the last sort of half an hour, wasn't it? Talking to students and recognizing that even lads like Philip who were on the march, recognize now that the terms and conditions of the graduate loans of the student loans are generally favorable. It was one of my first political moments, actually, when I was working in menswear, I told you this, and there's a fellow I didn't get on with very well. He was quite a lot older than me. And my student job turned into my first job because journalism was proving curiously immune to my myriad charms. And he used to show me, when I was there as a student, he used to show me his pay slip sometimes and point at the income tax and get quite cross about him paying. He was paying for my university education. And remember, I wasn't training to be a doctor or a nuclear physicist or a cancer researcher or anything like that. I was doing philosophy. And I remember thinking it was one of those moments where I thought, oh, God, he's got a point. So that notion of having to pay for a degree in a society where they have a premium seems to me to be fair. But listening to people change their minds, it was fascinating. And I mentioned that at the beginning of mystery hour, because my kids are growing up in a world where they don't really need to know stuff in the same way that we did. You can have in your pocket a computer more powerful than the ones that were on the Apollo mission to the moon, and it's in your pocket. You can find out in the blink of an eye almost anything that you want to know. It's a bit like the pointlessness, really, of mental arithmetic in a world of pocket calculators, but times a billion, and I don't know how we're going to shake it down as a society. I don't know where the knowledge is going to become redundant and everything will be a point of reference. You teach people how to think, teach people how to process information, you can do all of those things. But if information is no longer valuable because it's on a hard disk rather than in your little grey cells, then I don't know what the future is going to look like. I'm not sure this is going to become a major issue in our lifetime, and I'm not quite sure why I've inflicted such a labyrinthine introduction upon you at the start of mystery hour. But the point I was leading up to eventually was this. I still think it's cool to know stuff, and I still love people who know. It's why everyone from Fred Dibner to Brian Cox on the telly is so compelling when people just have a passion for their subject. It is. It's infectious, isn't it? It's contagious. Brian Cox talking about astronomy. Fred Dibner talking about steeples, to a slightly lesser extent, Michael Portillo talking about trains. But you know what? A Jamie Oliver talking about food. It's just lovely. And on a much smaller level, mystery hour offers you a weekly opportunity to share your knowledge. To show off. Not show off. I'll do all the showing off. So just sort of share your knowledge, the fruits of your learning. Which is why, if you ring in with an answer, two things happen. The first is you will explain what your answer is. The second is, if it sounds compelling, I'll ask you what your qualifications are. Now, your qualifications could be anything from. I saw it on telly last night, James, right through to one of the patron saints of Mistria, who happens to be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. So it may be that you've done a PhD thesis in whatever subject you've rung into contribute to, or it may be that you literally saw it on the goggle box last night. That's it. Questions cover a multitude of sins, to be honest with you. Be as silly or as serious as you like. We try to guard against dullness. But frankly, standards are slipping every week, so you'll probably get on with a right old boring one these days. And that isn't necessarily a bad thing because sometimes really boring questions have hilarious answers. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you will hear me repeat whenever there is a phone line free. We have quite a lot of traffic in the first ten or 15 minutes of mystery. Some people have to be politely invited to sling their hook, others struggle to get through. But once we're up and running, it's all very straightforward and it's fun, which in the current context of news broadcasting is a bit of a hen's tooth. Steve's in Bournemouth. Steve, question or answer? Hello, mate. I have got a question for you. Carry on, Steve. So, sea snails, what I want to know is why they are not affected by the salt in the water like a normal snail would be on land. Because they're sea snails. Yeah, I know, but you know what? Why aren't they affected by it? What's happened there? Why aren't fish. Yeah, okay. But a snail on land, they're very similar creatures, but they're not that similar. Yeah. One of them can survive in the sea, one of them can't. That's a pretty big difference, Steve. Yeah, but the biology of. Really? Yeah. So you think that because they look similar, they must be biologically similar, whereas I think that because one can survive in the sea and one can't, they must be biologically quite different. But I just think there must be something through the point of evolution that they've developed some way or knack to survive and that'll be it. But it'll be. I mean, it would. That will be the answer. So you've kind of answered it yourself. But you want more. Well, haven't you, though? It will be. Well, what you said. Why can't sea snail survive in the sea and land snails can't? The answer is because they're sea snails. So they're going to be biologically different. There's going to be an evolutionary glitch that explains one or the other. Depth to that one. A bit. Depth to that. To that answer. I'm going to get it for you, or at least I'm going to try. Just quickly. Been back to kiddie recently? Not for a couple of months. Why? I'm a stalbor lad myself. Shut up. Are you serious? Yeah. Originally I live in Bournemouth now. Yeah. Are you a town fan? I am, mate. Yeah. Well, I'm open. You know. You got to be, haven't you? But I'm a wolves fan. Really? They all are. Same with Harriers. They all support wolves or West Brom. But I'm pure Harriers, me and you. I used to support forest, but it gets too complicated when you get older, so, Harry. Harriers all the way. I'll see you at Agra for the next derby. Steve. Oh, nice, mate. I remember the glory days when they got into the proper league. All right. Bit of sensitivity, Steve. A bit of sensitivity, mate, if you don't mind. Jan Mulby's Red army. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time Charlie seemed. I've forgotten his question now. Got distracted by the football. Sea snails. Charlie's in Haringey. Charlie. Question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please carry on. Have you ever heard of the. What? Well, I believe it might be a myth, but that's why I've come to you with it. That you swallow spiders in your sleep. How many do you swallow? True? I mean, this is the sort of thing I could have forgiven you for Googling. But it is true. Is it? Me and my friend have had an argument about this this morning, so I need you to solve it. Well, who's going to be able to go definitive on it? Well, surely there's some. Someone's on a study. Someone's done a study. But we need to speak to the person. I'll get you a scientist. There is. There is. I can't. Is it something like seven in the course of your lifetime or something like that? I thought someone said eight a year. Or really that many? It can't be that exactly. I don't know. How many spiders do we eat in our lifetime in our sleep? Or do. Do we eat them at night? I'm sure we do. What are they doing in the night? Well, they're crawling around, aren't they? Yeah, but are they on your face? You know, my wife got. I don't know if I should tell you this. She got her hand nibbled by a rat once while she was asleep. How gross is that? That's not good. What? Would you rather have your hand nibbled by a rat while you were asleep or swallow a spider? That's a spider any day, I think. Would you really? But that's actually gone right down your gullet and everything. Why not? You wouldn't know about it? No, I guess not. Well, you do now. I'm telling you. Wouldn't. She didn't know she'd been nibbled by a rat until she woke up and showed the marks to a mate who's a doctor. Said, you got rats. At the moment, we thought you might. So you got to choose. Eat a spider or get nibbled by a rat. What's it going to be? And you find out in the morning. Yeah, still a spider. We're doing this all wrong, aren't we? These should be the topics we do on the program. So would you rather eat a spider or get nibbled by a rat? Zero. 345-606-0973 James O'Brien dismantles spider swallow a viral clip on the interweb. 13 after twelve. Steve's in Bromley. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on on behalf of my daughter. Why do we have chins? So that we can be distinguished from Conservative MP's. Yeah, I'll tell her that later on. Yeah, that'll go down well. What does she mean? I mean, as opposed to what? Just so literally all it was was one morning she's getting dressed for school. Yeah. She just turns me and says, daddy, okay, why do we have chins? I'm giving you this, mate. And before I style it out and say something really stupid, because she's at that age now where it's like, really, Dad? I just thought, let me ask someone who might know. I don't understand. What would we. I mean, because the obvious answer would be to stop all the food falling out of our mouths. No. Yes. Really? What does she mean? Why do we have chins? What? You mean, why do we have anything? No, no, no, no. I love it. You're being dismissive of me after ringing into us while we've got chins. Yeah, funny. Good one. How old is she? Year seven? Year eight? No, she's a year. She's five. So she's just started from school. Oh, I see what you mean. Yeah, I've got you. Because I'm at the next chapter now where everything I say is wrong. Steve, take it easy. Well, why do we have chins? It's a joke there about the Hong Kong phone book, isn't there? But I can't remember exactly what it is. Martin is in Eastbourne. Martin, question or answer? Question, mate. Carry on. Is the energy used in making a battery greater than the energy that the battery supplies? It must be, mustn't it? I don't. I mean, I'm not sure I understand the question. Well, the energy to make, say, an AA battery. Yeah. And then compare it to the energy that the battery supplies. But it can't be, because if the answer was. No. Then there would be energy being created out of nothing. You'd be ending up with more energy coming out of a process than you put into it. That's one of the first laws of physics, isn't it? No, you lost me there. I don't think I can explain, mate. If you can't cope with my explanation of physics, I don't think it's not going to get any simpler. You can't take more energy out of something than you put into it. It's impossible. I love the tick tock in the background. I'm going to give myself a round of applause, but I will repeat your question and see if anybody. Because it's possible I've completely misunderstood it. But in the meantime, there you go, Martin. I love that sound of someone who's pulled over with the hazard lights on, which is the correct way to contribute to this program. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Chins and spiders. You can join the dots. It has, as someone's pointed out on Twitter, all gone a bit. Partridge. Would you rather swallow a spider in your sleep or get nibbled by a rat without knowing until you woke up? Lee's in Bradford. Question or answer? Lee. James, what's it going to be? Well, we're just renewing my passport for my daughter. Hang on a bit. You can get a blue one. Oh, no, no, I don't want to wait for one of those rather than a red one. And so we got the photo taken. Yes, obviously. Give her all the instructions of what to do and what not to do. And she just asked, why can't I smile in photo? Oh, we've never done that before. That's a lovely question. How much does your face change when you smile? Well, I'm looking at the passport office kind of guidance. There's a lady there with an approved tick by her face and she's got a nice kind of solemn face on. It does say don't smile, doesn't it? Yeah, because I had mine done at snappy snaps and they told me to don't smile. It's very hard for me. Such a cheerful fellow. And there's a few other things that they kind of say, don't kind of have a hat on, all that kind of stuff. And that makes sense. But, yeah, of course. Can't get my hand around the smile. I love that. No, you're on, you're on. How old is your daughter? She's ten. That's a nice age as well. So we shall solve this mystery on her behalf. I love that. Nice one, Lee. Cheers, mate. 21 after twelve is the time, Brian. It's all a bit testosterone y mystery out this week, isn't it? Where are all the ladies? Brian is in Worthing. Brian. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Yes. Oh, before I. Before ask my question, I must say I'm a first time caller. Yes. Right. Why do people say that, James? Why do people say I'm a first time caller? It's because of embarrassment or what? I don't know, it's a tradition. I don't understand it either. And you know what the worst thing is? Because you never want to sound ungrateful to people who've rung in. Yeah, but the worst thing is that if one person does it at like 10:20. Yeah, every other first time caller does it for the rest of the program. But if, but if nobody does it, then we can go for a few quite a long time without anybody mentioning it. I don't mind it. I just sometimes think, you know, the minutes spent telling me that could have been spent. Not unlike this conversation, actually, Brian. Could have been spent telling me what it is you drunk in to ask. Yeah. Anyway, that's my question is James. Right. My question is, why do moths come out at night when it's dark? Yes. Then head for the nearest source of light. I'm sure you've had moths buzzing around in your bedroom. They go around street land. We're all right. The rats eat them all. Yeah, well, what do they do? They think it's the moon. Do you think so? Yeah, yeah, yeah, they think they do. Why are you laughing? It's the moon. Well, not laughing. Beth's the producers laughing at me while I'm presenting the program. It's the definition of unprofessional. It is the moon. It's the moon. They think it's the moon. Oh, really? Yeah. Everyone knows that, don't they? Same bats. So do you get random flaws? Well, I've got a sea of blank faces staring back at me through the glass, Brian, so I'm gonna. I don't know. Do you feel satisfied now or do. Would you rather that we put it out to tender? I think you should tender, mate. Yeah, well, I'm putting it out to tender, Brian. Thank you. I know. I will continue to listen to your show. I'm very glad to hear it. Next time you ring in. Do not tell me that you're a second time caller. No, all mate, mind, out you go. 23 after twelve. I thought moths and moons. I thought everyone knew that. This is a problem of working with young people. Mike's in twigging them. Mike, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Spiders. Yes. We don't eat them in our sleep. No, sorry. It would be a really, really bad evolutionary trait for spiders to crawl into big carbon dioxide spewing holes. Where does the myth come from, then? As I understand it, it was originally seeded by somebody who was studying urban myths just to show how easy it was to spread something out there. Is that right? Very well. I started one. I don't know if you're listening, a few weeks ago, but I'm trying to get it out there. That darts was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth. Yeah, I've been listening out for that. And no one's mentioned it yet? Not yet. It'd be early days, mate. It's going to take a while to get halfway around the world. But I did find, I think I found a pub on the way near Victoria called the Earl of Dartmouth. So I'm thinking of doubling down and trying to sort of claim that it was done there. Oh, it's got to be done. Yeah, the first dart. So what are your qualifications on spiders? I've been keeping tarantulas for 20 years and I do a lot of talks on uk spiders and a lot of my time is spent debunking common myths. Like that one. Like the idea that we accidentally swallow spider. And you're right, they'd be crawling into an area where they couldn't respirate, wouldn't they, really? They would. All just being swallowed. You're all getting swallowed. Why would you do that? Yes. All right, good plan. Nice one round of applause for Mike. Spider expert. What's called a spider expert. Right, an arachnologist. Of course you do. Arachnologist, yes. 25 after twelve. I love that. Nice. Moths still on the board. Spiders no longer on the board. Sea snails. It's all gone a bit. David Attenborough. Sharon is in Mill Hill. Sharon, question or answer a question, please, James, carry on. So basically, you know when you're watching a program and they always say, oh, x amount of million viewers tuned in? Yes. I think it sounds really stupid, but I've got no idea how the hell do they work that out so quickly? They send, it's electronic boxes in some people's houses, I forget how many, but this is Barb. It's called barb. And they have, they hope, a representative sample which they then multiply according to the size of the population. So, you know, if you were trying to find out what 100 people were doing. But you obviously couldn't afford to put a box in 100 houses. You put a box in ten houses, ideally ten representing the hundred, if you see what I mean. And then times, if eight of them were watching it, you'd conclude that out of 100 people, 80 people were watching it. So they just have electronic boxes. Radio is even more complicated, arguably, but that's how they do telly. Yeah, but that's just coming back at me on this. Come on. But that's not accurate. And that's just. They just don't take it. Shoot the messenger, madam. That's how you asked how they do it. I've told you how they do it. If you don't like it, take it out with Bob. Okay, fair enough. I don't think it answers the question. It depends how many people. It's pretty reliable, but. Because they send out lots of boxes and I guess it gets less reliable now that everyone's got 500 channels. But when we only had three or four, then it. Exactly. Yeah, well, I'm not here to defend it, I'm just here to describe it. Okay, fair enough. Thank you. Another round of applause for me, please. Thank you very much. Professor Hal is here. Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And I don't know which one you're going to go for. Sea snails or moths? Snails. If I may, James, you may, yes. Is Wayne not with you this week? Sadly not. But it was a mystery, our dream team, last week, wasn't it? I was very touched. I was very moved, actually. I thought it was quite a magical moment, actually. I know Wayne's not there. He's in Thanet for some reason. He's probably working down there in the middle of Ukip country. I hope he comes back alive. What's it going to be? Snails. Sea snails. Why can sea snails survive in salt water but normal snails can't? Well, it's all to do with environment and also to do with evolution. And I hope the producer is ready for this. All to do with osmosis. Did he cheer you up for this? Did he tell you that this was going to happen? Well done. Then you can expand, professor. Okay, so that rather hurtful thing that people often do to slugs, whereby they put salt on them, that kills a slug because effectively it dehydrates it. A slug or a snail has a certain amount of salt in its plasma. That's termed osmotic strength. And it survived that way. And if you put salt on the outside, you get the osmosis going, causing the water to go from the inside to the outside. That's because they're terrestrial. But if you live in a salty environment, you have to have a different osmotic strength in your plasma so that it adapts properly to the environment around you and therefore sneeze that. Sneeze. Snails on the feet. Yes. Sea snails and marine animals have a different mechanism. I mean, some. And it's same thing the other way around. Desert animals have a much longer loop of hemlae in their kidneys to account for it. So two different mechanisms for osmotic strength for two different environments. That's beautifully done. Can't say further than that. What are your qualifications? Again, how I forget. I'm really, really privileged and delighted to be professor of public understanding and science at the University of Brighton. Do I put in a unnecessary definite article? When I do it, guys say professor of the public, so it's just pop, is it? Professor of public. Yeah, I think the professor was a professor of public understanding science. But the public understanding or public understanding, it's all the same to me. Now, I want to be accurate. I'm a pedant like this. You're the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and this is your carillionth round of applause. Thank you so much. No, thank you so much. 29 minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we want to know why moths fly towards light. We want to know why we have chins. And I think that's it. And why you can't smile in your passport photo. I've also written down making batter, but I don't know. Oh, batteries. Yes. I thought that might have been a Yorkshire pudding question, but I answered that. You mean you can have another crack? There's no earthly way that you put more. Less energy into making a battery than the battery contains, because you can't. That's magic. If you put. If you can take more energy out of a process than you put into it, that would be magic. Technical term. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery hour continues. Although I have to tell you further to some information I shared with you just before twelve noon, the biggest mystery in Britain at the moment is how on Earth David Davis is still in a job. It's possibly an even bigger mystery than the same question when applied to Boris Johnson. If you follow me on Twitter, go and just have a look at some of the replies to that last one I put out, demonstrating yet more evidence that David Davis spent the entire referendum campaign spectacularly ignorant about what leaving the European Union meant. Which wouldn't matter if he hadn't been a prominent leave campaigner who has ended up in charge of negotiating our departure from the European Union. Oh, my days. That's why mystery house is so welcome, isn't it? Some weeks John is in Feltham. John, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on. John, why can't you smile in a passport? Now, I've actually checked out this theory so I know it's right. I've looked at my passport when I was seven. I'm smiling like a Cheshire cat. Oh, really now? Yes. And it was an old blue passport as well, God bless them. What were you so happy about? Why did you have a passport at the age of seven? I didn't go anywhere until I was about eleven or twelve and then I went on one of those cardboard ones you could get from the post office. I had a bad accident as a child and it was advised back in those days to go to a warm temperature to try and recuperate. Right? It was, yeah. So we went to Barbados for six weeks. It was lovely. Dirty job, John, I guess, but somebody's got to do it. Hey, did it work? Yeah, daddy, it was great. I still remember it now. It's a lovely six weeks in Barbados. What do I. Yes, it's almost worth jumping off a building for. Well, there you go. Carry on at the time. I hear you. Where were we, anyway? Why can't you smile in passports? Right. It's. I think it's only coming in last 1520 years to do with a facial recognition software that when you smile, it changes the point where the camera's looking at. So you could actually mistake somebody. Like airport security control. Yeah. Makes sense, doesn't it? Yes, it does. And it was in the newspaper, actually, towards the end of. You don't want to believe everything you read in the newspapers, but it is true, because all the. All the other passports I've had to look back over the last couple years and I think it must be in the last 1520 years. It's coming because before that you could smile or do whatever you wanted, apart from having your hair across your face. Qualifications. I used to work at the airport 20 odd years ago and he's been there. Smile. Really? Yes. 1238, there you go. This will make you smile. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Can you hear the smile in his voice? Eileen is in rice lip. Come on, Eileen. Question or answer? Come on, Eileen. I did that two days ago. And another Eileen. Didn't even notice. I thought, this is. I don't know why I bother. What have you got for me? I don't know why you bothered on this occasion. Because it's Aileen. Not either. Oh, spoil sport. Come on, Aileen. No, that doesn't work at all. What do you want to say? Question or answer? It's a sort of a bit of a steward's inquiry. No, no, I'm just expanding on your arm, which was perfectly all right. Which one? The one about the viewing figures for television and radio. Oh, yes, you were right. It is done by a box. Yes. Sorry, hold on a minute. Sorry. Oh, bless you, Aileen. Thank you. The box is attached to the person you are given, one per member of the household, and you have to carry it with you wherever you go. So if you're in a coffee shop or whatever, you are deemed to be listening to whatever they are playing. Are you talking about the radio or the telly? Both of them. Well, they're done differently. They weren't when I was involved. When was this? A few years ago. But did you put me down? Of course. Oh, thank you. All the time. Yeah, quite right, too. Yeah. No, nice, really. So you. Because they are done. Set. Well, I mean, you've done it. I don't know why I'm picking an argument with you. If you've actually done it, what do you get in return? You actually do quite well. They used to give you vouchers. Oh. So every night you had to plug your devices in and they would take the readings over magic. Yeah. And you would then be able to accumulate vouchers that you could spend in various high street shops. Isn't worth it, then. It was well worth it, yeah. And it's got you this. No, thank you. And I promise not to do that rubbish joke. If you are ever kind enough to ring me again. 1239 is the time. Alex is in Fulham. Alex, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. Wondered why, on a lot of american military uniforms, they have the flag back to front on the arm. Really? So they have the stars on the right hand side when it's usually on the left. On the flag? Don't know. Are you sure? Yeah. Notice that loads on american dramas. And then I saw it on the news or something with Trump last week and thought, is it only on the telly? Is it only on the telly that you've seen it? Is it like that in real life? Well, that's what I saw on the news last week. Someone next to Trump had it on their arm and it was back to front. So I don't know if it's. I don't know if it's the telly or the flag, then in that case. Yeah. I don't know. It's an interesting. Any rating you seen, the tv's not back to front, so I can't imagine it's a tv flipping around. You make a very good. You make an excellent point. Neither do we spend our lives as the answer. I was originally reaching for observing american military personnel through our rearview mirror. Which why they write ambulance records. Exactly. Exactly. I try. I don't know and I haven't seen it, but obviously it's not an Iraqi at all. It's a lovely question. I don't know. Why is the american flag reversed on american military uniforms? Alex in Fulham. Thank you. 1241 is the time Andy is in Sutton. Andy, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Basically, the chin is not really an anatomical place. It's kind of. It's the end of the mandible, as they were. The bottom of the jaw. Yeah, exactly. So it's still part of the same bone. So basically it acts as an anchor for your. Your musculature to, like, your master and things like that to eat with. So essentially is. It's like your bottom region. It doesn't really exist. It's more of a conjunction of where muscles kind of cross over and bits and boosts that. So I didn't really understand the question, why do we have chins? Because. Yeah, it's kind of a misnomer of a question. It's not. It's not. Yeah. It's not technically worded. Right. Because in a way I was right. If we didn't have a chin, all our food would fall out of our mouth. Yeah, yeah, essentially, yeah. So it's part of the jaw. So if you think of it as part of the jaw rather than as a somehow separate entity, then there's no mystery at all about why it exists. It's so that we can chew stuff and keep food in our mouth while we eat. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, qualifications? I was a sports therapist in the past class. Why did you stop? I've gone. I've followed a career in which I love. I think that's probably the answer. What are you doing now? I'm now a garden maintenance and horticulturalist. Fantastic. Yeah. With the added bonus of being able to treat yourself when you get lots of horticulture related aches and pains. Exactly, exactly. It's great. It's 1242. Round of applause, Randy. Colin is in Orpington. Colin, question or answer? Hi, it's a question, please. Yours. And it's. Why are people that are considered to be a bit stupid or lack of intelligence are called a lemon? What's the association with. I don't know. I did might because we win. Say something really stupid, Colin, how did you vote in the referendum? I voted to leave. Oh, I just winced. Right, okay. Like I would if I'd licked a lemonade. Oh, I see. Do you think it could be that? Not really, no. Convinced? Okay. That's the best I got. But you're quite right not to accept it. I'll put it on the board. How has lemon. But there's all sorts of words like that, though. I like plum, you say the other day. I do say it a lot. I listen to your program every day. You're very kind, I'm very grateful to you. And the other one is. Oh, you're a bit of a mug. Mug. Mug. Mug. Comes from being mugged off, doesn't it? Or mugging. You know, the victim of a mugging is a mug. I hate that word. For that reason. Because that sounds. That does sound a bit more convincing than your previous answer. I hear you, but why plum? Plum? Probably my favorite fruit based insult. More than lemon. But I feel I have to mix it up for fear of repetition. I mean, work. I hear the word also. He's a bit of a pilchard. He is a bit of a. Where do they come from? The printing trade. Oh, he's a right pilchard. He's a right pilchard. I like it. All right, Lemon, why? And you've heard it elsewhere. It's not just me, because I don't think I've made this one up. No, I've heard it elsewhere. And I'm 74 now, so I've heard it many times. Many, many lemons. I just wondered what the association was. If I'm right about. If I'm right about the wincing, I should apologize to you for using you as an example. But if I'm not, I won't. So, Lemon, why 1245. Very nearly. We need these. Why do moths fly towards lights? We've done the chins. Why do american. Why does the flag, the stars and the stripes on american military uniforms appear to be the wrong way round? And why is lemon a synonym for doofus? Don't ring in and ask me what do first means. I don't know. Should we do one more? Marsh. Marshan. Is it in Basingstone? March in. I do apologize. Are you here to talk about why we have chins? No, I'm not. Oh. Marching march. Sorry. Carry on, mate. Your surname is not banned. You've heard all this before, haven't you? Yeah, I'll leave it. Question or answer, Marcin? It's an answer, actually. About the batteries. Yes. So this one, I don't know about the input side, but from an output perspective, if you consider that the battery's got a certain amount of potential energy stored in it. Yes. And if it was an ideal source, it would have zero resistance. It does have a resistance. And therefore you have energy drops inside the battery before you actually get anything electrical out of it. Yes. It's why the battery warms up. So you will never get anything meaningful. I say meaningful. Anything approaching exactly what you put in. No, you can't. You're right. I mean, I said you can't possibly end up with more coming out than you put in, but you're reminding us you can't even have the same because. Well, where are you, Marcin? Sorry, I'm by a road. I'm going to give you a round of applause. Whoa. How many got? Loads. What happened then? Spooky? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Why is lemon a synonym for Prune? Some of you, I love it. Someone's taking me to task for claiming that my favorite fruit based insult is plum. Someone's got in touch. I've lost it now. Twist is going nuts at the moment while we're on air. But the bottom line is someone said. No, it's not, it's prune. Prune is your favorite fruit based insult. I suspect you might be right. It's a three way battle between Prune, plum and lemon. Although Colin did throw Pilchard into the mix, which I accept is not a fruit, but it is a rather splendid. Isn't that a Del boy insult as well, Rodney? You. Pilchard. I think it is when he kind of exhausted. Plonker 1251 is the time. Questions that still need answers. The one about the american flag on american military uniforms. The one about the moths and the moon and the one about the lemons. Damien is in seven sisters. Question or answer, Damien. Hi there. It's an answer. Carry on. For the american. For the american flag on american military. Brilliant. The reason that the flag on the right shoulder is faced backwards is because it appears as though looking on either side of the soldier. They're always going forward. They're never going to retreat. They're always moving forward. I love it. Qualifications? Retired United States Marine. Are you serious? Yep. How long you been listening to the program? Um, I listening to this probably about three years now. Are you familiar with Ray Liotta? Yes. Did you. Do you know what it is in the context of this program? No. No. That's why I checked. You know, it's. No, you don't have to listen every day what we do, if someone rings in, not just in mystery, Damien, but if someone rings in with such an astonishing qualification for the contribution that they're making to the program. So, you know, if we were having a conversation about Article 50 and Lord Kerr, who wrote article 50, rang in, then if it wasn't a little bit childish, I'd give him a Ray Liotta. And on mystery hour, if someone's qualification for answering the question is pretty close to perfect, then they get a Ray Liotta. And I'm thinking about giving you one. Oh, well, thank you. I appreciate it. Have you got a lot of medals already? I have been decorated, yes. Okay, well, I would like to add to those decorations. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. That's the real Ray Liotta as well, man. He did it for us when he came in. He came in for an interview with Steve Allen. It's the real deal. Thank you, David. That's lovely. 1253 is the time. Maria's in Castleford. Marie, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Good afternoon. I'd like to know, why do we say bless you when somebody sneezes? You just said it. A lady. I know she did. It was Aileen. It was Aileen who sneezed. But I don't know why we do it. And it intrigues me because we automatically. Well, I do. Majority of us do it. I know the ones with my nurse, like you, and obviously me, of course. We're very well brought up, you and me, Mary. Absolutely going out of fashion now. Why do we do it? Not only do I know the answer to this, I can provide you with a means of ensuring that you will never forget what the answer is. Oh, how did I guess? Go on. Are you ready? Are you ready? I'm ready. Right. Ring a ring of roses a pocket full of posies a tissue, a tissue. Over to you, Marie. We all fall down. What's that nursery rhyme about? No, I'm not with you. Oh, bubonic plague. So the idea. The idea was that you could. You could fend off the spores. That would give you the plague by having a pocket full of posies. Yeah. Made out of roses. A ring of roses, if you will. But if the spores did infect you, the first symptom you would display if you'd got bubonic plague, would be sneezing. So when you sneeze, people say, bless you, either as a way of saying, oh, bad luck, looks like you're dying, or as a way of saying, bless you. I hope that's just a sneeze and not the bubonic plague, but it is exactly linked to that. That's why we say it. Oh, you're so clever. You just. Oh, shut up. She cost my parents tens of thousands of pounds. Nice big round of applause. Bless you, Marie. Utterly charming end to mystery. Our pressures on James in Aylesbury, not to spoil it all. James, question or answer? Question. Carry on. I'm a lorry driver. I'm up and down the country. I go to deliveries once, I go there once. You always remember it. But I had a delivery to Wembley Stadium where I didn't recognize the face. I recognized the security guard's voice. It was an old friend of mine. Yeah. My question is, if our brain was a hard drive, how big would it be? Oh, no. 1255. What are you expecting? Well, I'll be waiting for a while. I was hoping I was going to get on earlier. It's been bugging me for a while. How would we know? So you mean in terms of storing information? Yeah, yeah. Because that information was obviously in my brain. I've never ever, you know, would have needed it or used it again. Apart from when I did this livery and come across this guy. I love it, I love it, I love it, love it. I mean, can we just do the average human brain, James, or does it have to specifically be yours? Well, I'd say more yours than mine or some of your professors that call in, but, yeah, it's just on average. Yeah, average human brain. If it was a hard drive, how many gigs would it be? Yeah, that's a brilliant, absolutely brilliant question, and I don't even know if it's answerable. I wouldn't know where to start. Let's hope somebody listening to this can shed some light on it. I love that. I love it, I love it, I love it. Thank you, James. 1256 is the time. Joe is in Liverpool. Joe, question or answer? It's jazz in Liverpool. It is jazz. I don't know where I got Joe from. Sorry, Jazz. I'm sorry, mate. No, I've been called. It's an anthem about the moths. Go on. They use the new moon to navigate, so when they see a bright light that's up close, they get distracted by that and they use the light instead. That was it. Yeah. So I was right about the moon, but I was wrong about the why. Yeah. I couldn't remember why. I didn't hear it originally. I've only heard the recap. Oh, good. Where have you been? What have you been doing? I've been at the hospital with my mother. Oh, all right. That's absolutely. Let me off. No, that's absolutely. Actually. Is everything all right? Yeah, good stuff. Well, I'll give you a round of applause then. 1257 is the time. Dave's in Putney. Dave. Question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Bring it. I think I have. For the lemon question. Oh, yes. Yeah. I've always assumed so. I'm lemon sherbet. Herbert. For a Herbert. Why is a Herbert a rude word? Well, that's what you said. I'm what you're lady said. I didn't know that. Got a very well trained it, probably. But that's double rhyming slang. That doesn't happen very often because Herbert probably is rhyming slang for something else. Well, it's bottle and glass, isn't there? Yeah, but we're not doing that, are we? Lemon. Lemon sherbet? Oh, yes, you lemon. You're lemon sherbet. You're Herbert. But then, Herbert. Why is Herbert an insult? Well, I just want another day. No, we have to answer that in order to give you the round of applause that we want to give you now. 0000. There you go. Anyway. Well, should we give him one? Feeling generous? Yeah. Yeah. Give him a half. Lawrence is in. I wouldn't celebrate a half, though. You have nothing left to do if you get a whole one one day. Lawrence is Anisha. Quickly, Lawrence, question or answer? Very quickly. It's a correction about chins. Oh, you haven't been. Haven't heard from you for a while. Is everything all right? Well, I tried to get through to a couple of weeks ago because busy these days of having wisdom teeth out was also rather. Lawrence is my pocket retired dentist who used to get. We used to speak quite often. But I've got a million listeners now, Lawrence. None of the old fellows can get through. None of the old guard can get through. I know. I love listening. God bless you. What have we got take Bruce Forsyth and the Jimmy Hill. Both had very pronounced chins. They did. They had no better chewing ability or keeping the food in their mouth because the muscles around the mouth, called the orbicularis auris, are not attached to the chin. Oh, now your caller who said about chewing and the masseter, the masseter muscle is actually attached to the angle of the jaw. If you run your finger backwards until it goes up, there's the angle, and when you clench your mouth, you can feel the muscle contract. Unfortunately, chins are nothing to do with chewing or keeping an anterior oral seal. Why have we got a chin then? It's developmental. That'll do. I don't know what topics Sheila Fogarty is going to be covering for the next 3 hours, but I'm fairly confident that the answer to all three of them is it's developmental. Developmental. Indeed it is. I think we'll do though that answer. Won't it always? Yeah. I quite like my chin. I just wish I didn't have so many of them. Thank you, James. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.