Do Planes Honk?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, boy. Welcome. Even more welcome than ever. Four minutes after twelve, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. Although I am currently struggling with a mystery of my own, I wonder what is more egregious. Someone's just shared that footage of of Dominic Raab revealing that he hadn't actually sat down and read the good Friday agreement after becoming secretary of state for Brexit. I think, if memory serves, it's about 47 pages long. Forgive me if I've got that wrong. Or Jacob Reese Mogg, an alumnus of Eton College where every single student was tested for coronavirus last week, telling you that if you want to test for your children, you should stop your endless carping. And if that's not a moment at which you begin to wonder whether this geezer actually gives a hoot about you and yours, then frankly, I don't know what is. What's that you said, J Dog, your school. Every single kid at your old school got tested. But if we want our kids to be tested, we should stop our endless carping. Right you are, boss. Tug forelock, doff cap. Vote rees mog. Five minutes after twelve is the time, and it is mystery upon us now. So hit the numbers now. You will get through. If you have a question which needs an answer, a mystery which needs a solution, an enigma that needs unravelling, then this is your opportunity to get it. Zero 345-606-0973 it was conceived this feature, for two reasons. Forgive me if you've heard this one before. Forgive me repeatedly if you've heard this many, many, many times. It was conceived partly because whenever there is an election and we are compelled not to talk about politics, it's always quite fun to have something in your back pocket that you can do instead. That's why this, despite having a rather weekendy feel to it, that's why this feature unfolds on a Thursday. But the second reason, quite seriously, is one that I find myself thinking about more and more as my own children get older, and the massive changes in not just what you might describe as choices about our education system, but the inevitability of some of these changes to our education system. So younger listeners, and indeed all of my colleagues fall into this category, can barely conceive of a world without the Internet. It is almost impossible for them to imagine a world without the Internet. The only world they have ever lived in has this astonishing technology for good or for ill at its fingertips. And when. I mean, what's the point in learning anything, really, what's the point in learning the six wives of Henry VIII, for example, when you can have it in front of you quicker, arguably, than it takes you to say it out loud? Does anyone want to have a go? You know, I wouldn't trust myself at the moment to get it absolutely right. I've got my divorce. Beheaded, died, divorced, beheaded, survived off Pat. But you're looking at Catherine of Aragon. That's where I get confused. Catherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, then Jane. Did Jane Seymour outlive him? Or was she the one that gave him Edward and then passed away? I'm glad we've opened up this particular window of expertise. The point being, of course, that you don't need to know stuff anymore. The Internet robs us all, really, of the pleasure of knowledge, and that's fine. It's the nature of the beast, but it's still good to know stuff. Which is why the second question I will ask you after you come on the program and provide an answer to a question that somebody else has asked. The second question I would ask you would be, what are your qualifications? By which I don't mean did you get a bag of gymnastics award for, or indeed pass your cycling proficiency at Stourport police station in 1985? I mean, how do you know that thing, what you just told us, you know, how do you know that? And you will say to me anything from. I saw it on the telly last night, James, right through to, I have a PhD. I have a doctorate in precisely this very, very esoteric field of academic research. The point being? It doesn't matter what your qualification is. I only ask to establish you're bona fides. The likelihood of you being right, and if your qualifications for answering the question that you answer are breathtakingly appropriate, well, wait. You wait and see what happens. But I'll tell you for nothing, it's unspeakably exciting. 1208, let's crack on. Matt is in reading. Matt, question or answer? I have a question. Please carry on. Matt. I was wondering where the tradition of smashing a bottle of champagne against the hull of a boat before it makes its maiden voyage comes from. I'd be astonished if we haven't done that before. But I can't. Off the top of my head, I thought it might. I thought it may have been done before, actually, I can't remember. Which is, frankly, the only criteria we use. A quick apology. The Good Friday agreement is 35 pages. My thanks to Thomas McGarvey for reminding me of that. But back to you. I have no idea, actually. So if we have done it before, I've forgotten, which means you get on the list. Good work. Are you planning on launching anything later today? I mean, how urgent is this inquiry? No, I was actually watching a movie with my daughter, and it happened in the movie, and my daughter said, oh, why do they do that? And I said, it's good luck. And then I thought, that's not a proper answer, though. I need a James O'Brien answer. Hang on a minute. I hope you told your daughter to stop her endless carping, seeking facts, knowledge and evidence. Endless carping. Actually, that was, I forgot that back in the mists of time when we started doing this, we often used to cite parents in pursuit of omniscience, to just postpone that moment when your children realize that you don't know anything more than anybody else does, and they cling on for a little longer to the idea that daddy knows the answers to every question. Let's help Matt retain that superior status for just a few moments more. Where does that come from? The old smashing of the bottle on the hull of the, of the boat. Martin's in soli. Hull. Martin, question or answer? Question. Good morning. Hello. Hello. Hi. Yeah. Many outdoor clothing products are labeled as breathable. They allow moisture to pass in one direction through them. So your sweat goes out, but the rainwater doesn't get in. You can also get paints that are labeled as breathable. Yeah. Unlike a material which can have an inside and an outside, you just paint the paint on. So how does the paint know to let moisture out from the timber you've put it on, but not to let it from the rainwater that's landing on it. Why would it be different from cloth? Well, with cloth, you can make it with an inside and outside. Yeah, but just comes out the tin. Right. Or an outside to the paint. But it'll be the molecular structure of the, of the, of the paint that, that, I mean, I've led me into a field about which I know even less than all the other fields I routinely find myself exploring on this program. Martin, but. So you've got something called breathable. Is all paint not breathable? I don't think so, no. Because some paints contract moisture in and that causes a problem. So there's many different types. Why would you want a paint that traps moisture in? I can't see. I mean, unless you wanted something waterproof, in which case you'd use a waterproof paint. Usually paint would. All. Paint would be breathable because of the molecular structure of the paint. Unless you add something rubbery or galvanized that makes it waterproof. I really am chancing my arm here, Martin. I've got to tell you, mate. Well, you say that, it might turn out to be true. It's my career that is right there. So how does breathable paint work? Is the question. Really? Yes. Not how does the paint know? Because that's not doctor who, mate. We haven't got sentient paint on the agenda. So, breathable paint, what's going on? That's the question. We'll get you an answer. That's great. Yeah. Okay. Nice one. Thank you, Martin. But, brie, I don't know. I think the answer might be the other way around, as in, paint is generally breathable, but you can get special water. I don't. Why am I even talking seriously? Well, obviously it's a radio show. It'd be a bit weird if I didn't. But why am I talking in that particular field? 1212 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number Richard's in. Worthing. Richard, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Richard, you say you sound a bit beleaguered. Are you having a tough day? Well, aren't we having a tough life? It's not the attitude. Stop your endless carping. Stop your endless carping and cheer the flip up, will you? Carry on. Stop my carping? Hopefully. This is a really easily answerable question. I've always wanted to know. Yes. If commercial airliners have horns. As in. As in beep beep. I love that question. So, I mean, you'd be unlikely to need one, wouldn't you? If there was a commercial airliner heading towards you, you'd probably notice without the use of a horn. No, James, James. Not for in the air, necessarily. I think I know you. I wasn't in the air. You prune. Of course, on the. Even on the ground. I think you'd be more likely to notice it coming to you on the ground than you would if it was flying towards you through the air, wouldn't you? Just walking around, minding your own business, walking around Heathrow. Beep, beep. Oh, my God. I nearly got hit by a 747. Thank God for that plane horn. That's true. That's good carping. All right, we shall find. I. Do planes have horns or some other means of alerting pedestrians in the. What's it called? Airside pedestrians. Airside pedestrians. That there is an enormous, whopping great plane coming to it. Before you go, Richard, just do the sound once more, would you? I'm going with. You've got a gift there, rich. Seriously. A gift that right until this moment in your life has not been properly recognized. John's in Teddington. John, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. When I come home from the supermarket and I've got a few bottle of beers and I want to drink one quick. Yeah, I put some in the freezer compartment. Yes. Now I'm getting older and sometimes I forget to take them out. And we've all been there, John. We've all been there. And they freeze solid. Yes. Now, when I take them out, I let them thaw and then when I pop them open after they've thawed, they are way less fizzy than what they should be. Where is that gas gone? Why are they less fizzy? It's all stayed in the bowl. Yeah, you'd think so. I thought you were going down a different route, because sometimes if you leave them in, the beer expands and pushes the lid off, doesn't it? Yeah, I get that. Because, you know, that expands because it's frozen. But you're going for. Why is it so much noticeably less after it's frozen and thawed again? Yeah. Surely the gas is still inside the bottle and then in the liquid. Where's it going? Yeah. And there's not a particularly resonant emission of gas when you lift the lid off the beer, is there? It's not like it goes boom. Yeah, exactly. I'm not going to make that noise, though, like your previous. No, I mean, frankly, I don't think anyone could scale those dizzy heights of live sound effects, live radio. So BBC used to have entire departments dedicated to producing that sort of magic, like that sort of audio magic on. On the wireless. Thank you, John. I'll try and find. Yeah, he's right. You know, if you put a bottle of beer, gottle a gear in the freezer and forget about it, and then you open it. So first thing you do is you go, excellent. It hasn't expanded and pushed the lid off. This one's still drinkable. So you take it out of the freezer, you leave it on the side in the kitchen for a couple of hours, it starts melting and you resist the urge to open it too early because you don't want to have a still, you know, a little bit of beer and then a big lump of frozen beer and you finally get it to a point where it is pourable. You pour the whole bottle into a glass, or perhaps you drink from the neck and it is noticeably less fizzy. Why is that? Given that the bottle is, we presume, airtight, 1215 is the time. This is LBC Mystery Hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 318 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we continue to solve mysteries at a rate of knots. On the agenda today. What's the origin of smashing a bottle of champers on the side on the hull of a boat at launch? How does breathable paint work? Do planes have horns? That's probably my favorite at the moment. And when your beer freezes and then defrosts, why is it considerably less fizzy than it was before it froze? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And that should have given you, if you're new to this, that should have given you a fairly broad indication of just how wide the criteria are for this. Actually, no, there's nothing very clever there, really. Breathable paint is probably quite clever, so you can ask anything you want. The only thing we usually guard against, be careful about if it's really, really obvious, like baby pigeons or white dog poo, then don't waste your time getting in touch because it won't get on. Other than that, I used to hate questions about motoring. I largely still do. So they're unlikely to get on. In fact, no, we'll leave that rule in place. God knows we need some semblance of maturity attached to proceedings. So don't ask me questions about motoring. The worst question I ever got asked on mystery hour. That's quite a big claim, actually. But one of the worst questions I ever got asked involved a roundabout with an exit that you weren't allowed to drive up and the caller wanted to know what was at the end of that exit. Now, you probably are thinking a bit previous there, James, could have been really interesting, could have been a secret nuclear testing facility or something like that. You might be right. But that was the reason why I took against motoring based questions on the grounds that no one else was going to be interested in the answer to that question because no one else drove around that roundabout every day. To be fair, this was back in the days when we had probably only about a quarter of a million weekly listeners to the program, and we've now increased that figure by a factor of about a million. So possibly there would have been thousands of people driving daily around that roundup. Shall I move on? All right, 20 after twelve. Steve's in Nottingham. Steve, question or answer? Another question? I'm afraid. What do you mean I'm afraid? Where would we be without questions? There would be no answers, grasshopper. Without questions. Okay. I was chatting with my friend Ian last night and we couldn't decide what makes a piece of music classical. So what constitutes classical music? And immediately you would assume it was written between certain pace. No such a thing as modern classical music. Yeah, no, of course there is. Yeah. And, and also classical music that isn't performed by an orchestra. So. So what parameters? Well, it can't be instrument based either, can it? Because if you said if it's on violins, then you'd rule out, you know, every, every folk group with a fiddle would suddenly become. Absolutely. Or guitar. Even classical guitar. Classical guitar. What? So, yeah, be the tempo. No, it couldn't even be the tempo. It's a really good question. So what actually qualifies something as classical music? Well, I like it. Let's find out what is. What is the criteria by which a piece of music becomes classical? There may not be 1 may just be one of those things. I mean, Steve might be the first. Stephen, his friend. It's quite an interesting conversation to be having late at night. Steve, what sort of time? What sort of time was it? 10:30 last night. Okay. Any munchies involved in that? 121 minutes after twelve is the time moving swiftly on, Matt? Sim. Worthing. Matt, question or answer? It's an answer, James, to the breathable paint one. Carry on, Matt. Okay. Right. So breathable paint essentially is quite simple. It would have less vinyl or acrylic in it. Yes, that's what I said. I said galvanized or rubber or something like that. Get in. I did a decorating question. Carry on. You're pretty much right. I mean, so basically if you had a bare plaster room, you know, you put a mist coat on, you would use the cheapest as chips emulsion or an emulsion that doesn't have any vinyl or acrylic in. And if say you put like vinyl silk on, which would have a really high content of vinyl straight on the plaster, you could come back the next day and it would all be peeling off the walls because the moisture would be trying to escape from the plaster and it would push it all off. And also you have a thing called mineral paints, which are for like lime plaster for older buildings. Yes. You don't want to use a modern paint on those because they have a higher acrylic content in them. Although they do say breathable. They're breathable to a point, but not as breathable as a mineral paint, because basically a mineral paint doesn't have those vinyls and acrylics in them. I like it. No, it makes perfect sense, which is why it has that chalky finish, that limey finish to it. Exactly, yeah. So really, it's like the shiny of the paint. Probably. The more vinyl, the more vinyl it's got in it. So gloss, high vinyl emulsion. Matte, low vinyl. That's it, yeah. Although, like, a vinyl matte obviously has vinyl matte. When would I want a really waterproof paint? And don't say on a boat. Well, you know, obviously, like, exterior plastic and metal would be fine, wouldn't it? Exterior would work. So it actually becomes a barrier against water getting into the wood rather than. I mean, ideally, you want it to be light render and stuff like that, to be breathable and plaster. So if, like, you had a problem with a basement where there'd been water coming in or you had damp. Yes. You want to get all that, like, modern paint off the wall, strip it back and then get to the. Get it tanked, if you can afford it, but if you can't get it tanked, then. Then get some really good paint in there. Yeah. I mean, it's a bit of. A. Bit of a poem, but, you know, I'm a desperate. I know you are. I didn't need to ask you that. That was your quality. I like that. So the question was, the wrong way around is a paint is generally porous, or water will pass through it, but the more vinyl that you add or then the more potentially waterproof it becomes. Absolutely. Round of applause for Matt, the decorator. You're working in Worthingham. Yeah, I've got. So my friends Gary and Sean, who are both decorators, are going to be spitting nails about the fact that you got on with this one. Yeah. A lot of decorators out there, a lot of us have on the radio whistling while they work. So, well done you for leading the field. Stephen's in St Alban. Stephen, question or answer? Answer. James, carry on. Two. Do commercial airliners have a horn? Oh, yeah. And the answer is yes. Get in. This is a moment, everyone. Hang on. Let's just all take a moment to reflect upon one of the finest answers ever in the history of mystery. Go on, tell me more. So it's not used for getting attention of other aircraft or anything like that. It's not loud enough, it's used for the tension get the flight crew getting the attention of the ground crew so the engineers and loot handlers and that on the ground, it's a tiny little horn on the nose of the aircraft and I suppose it's more like a squeaking duck. And your qualifications are aircraft engineer. Could you make the noise for us? Would you mind? Your previous caller, I think, did a wonderful. No, that was rubbish. That was nothing like a squeaking duck. You're lying person. Sorry, I didn't hear my. My earphones went a bit fun. Do it again. Smaller. So the fellow who asked the question was going much more for a whack. Whack? Yeah. That's more like a duck. No, this torture into it. Yeah. And it's not very loud and it is literally in case there's a poor old baggage handler there who's about to get hit up the proverbials by. No, no, no. So the aircraft, as the aircraft arrives on standard. Yeah. So be met by an engineer or a ground crew and they usually plug their headset in. But if they're not there or the flight crew want their attention quickly, they'll hit the horn so that the people walking around can hear them go and pluck their headset in and get their attention to talk to them rather than get them out of the way. Got you. Okay, so it's over here. Type horn. Rather than get out. Get in. Get in the back of the type. Absolutely fantastic answer. Round of applause for Steve. And that is one of my all time faves. Matt's in Rotherham. Matt, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. I've just seen. Go on, carry on. Yeah, I know. Thank you for letting me on. But it's been on my mind why I can't number plates. White at the front when they're yellow at the back. Now, I have a new colleague working with me today, a colleague who hasn't actually ever done mystery out before. And whether this is her fault or not, I know she's going to get the blame for it, because not only have we done this question relatively recently, I think we've done it in the last two. I've only been back. When did I get back from holiday, Matt? Was it this week or last week? You're asking me? Yeah, it was this week, yeah. I think we did this in the last mystery. I think we did it three weeks ago. I was busy then. No, it's not your fault. I'm just. I'm just. Just pointing out how important it is for senior producers to keep a very close eye on proceedings when, especially when we have new colleagues doing their level best to keep the mystery house ship afloat. The answer, Matt, is to do with being able to work out whether the vehicle in front of you is coming towards you or not. Surely there's the easy way of working that out, whether you're seeing the front of a vehicle or the back of a vehicle. But you can't, can you, in the dark, or whether you're seeing headlights or red lights. Yeah, that is also relevant, but not completely foolproof. In fact, either I'm having a really, really serious case of deja vu, or I had an almost identical exchange with the person who asked the question three weeks ago. Okay. It is. It is. It is yellow at the back, James, because. Because it's less reflective. Exactly. So the question actually was, why aren't they yellow at the front if yellow is so that, you know it's the front, if it's coming towards you. You know when there's a car coming towards you. Well, you might say that, but when's the last time you got hit by a car? Actually, that's true. You're right. It works, you see? So if it ain't broke, Matt, don't fix it. Spot on. A round of applause for me. Steve's in Wakefield. Steve, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's a classical music one. Oh, good. Carry on. Well, unfortunately, it's not a simple answer, but I didn't think it was. So one answer is that its music tends to be spelled with a capital c, like conservative. Sorry I said that word. The period is about 1730 to about 1820, something like that. Okay. Yeah. There are no clear boundaries. So Mozart, Beethoven, so it would be like a period. They're classical, period. You can't put an exact period on it. In music history, we talk about the baroque period, when Bach was around, then the classical, then the romantic, when people like Tchaikovsky and Liszt were around, etc, etcetera. But the more complicated answer is small c. This would be. Yeah. Small c is a generic thing. It's a very. It's a difficult question to answer, but you've got two types of music in theory, classical and popular. Or some people call classical unpopular, which is. One of my friends does it. And classical, if you think about classical, as in the classics, greek, Roman. Yeah. Obviously it doesn't mean music from that period, but it talks about proportion, structure, sort of correctness, as it were. That doesn't mean to say that other music isn't like that, but. So what would Schoenberg be then? Or John Cage. I would call those art music. Would you? Because that's the other. That's the other term that you. That is banded around. Right. Probably a. But even then, it's got a classist angle to it, because why isn't Elton John art music? Well, I was about to say, are there any examples of pieces of music that perhaps challenge your distinctions or. Challenge. Challenge the distinctions loads. I mean, west side story. Is that an option? Perfect example, yeah. Qualifications. Steve. I'm a little late for the news. I'm a senior lecturer, or sometimes called associate professor in music at University of Leeds. Oh, fantastic. Is Bretton hall still open in where you are? It's funny you ask that. No, I started there, actually. I thought you might have done. I thought you might have done. Small world, isn't it? This is Yorkshire sculpture park now as well. Absolutely. It's about 1015 minutes from where I urge everybody to visit it if they can. It's beautiful. Shall we say, into the bigger university. Right you are, yeah. In 2001, but I managed to keep my job, so. Good man. Round of applause for Steve. 12:30 is the time Thomas Watts has the headlines. Help eligibility criteria apply. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LPC. I mean, every day you find yourself thinking, what next? So, the Times has just reported that Ian Duncan Smith has told Joe Biden to tackle the rioting in America and not to lecture the UK. Who's going to tell Ian Duncan Smith that Joe Biden's not the president? Can we get hold. Can we say, just. Look, let's not make a big deal out of it. Can you just send him an email or something? Because he's going to embarrass himself if he carries on doing this stuff. Ian Duncan Smith telling Joe Biden to tackle rioting in America. He's not the president, Ian. He's the democratic candidate. There's an election in November, mate. Honestly, it'd be like asking Keir Starmer to sort out the coronavirus crisis. I can see the temptation, frankly. It's not as if he could do any worse than your fellow. But, mate, you can't go around telling people who aren't in charge to sort out the stuff that they're not in charge of. Makes us look stupid on the world stage. In fact, instead of suggesting that Joe Biden should fix things in a country he doesn't govern, maybe you could just go and read the Good Friday Agreement and then you'd understand why what Joe Biden has said about it is absolutely accurate. Oh, dear. And of course, speaking of people who haven't read the Good Friday agreement, or if they have, have failed completely to understand it, I see Jacob Rees Mogg coming in for some quite widespread criticism after suggesting that you should just shut up and suck it up if you want a test for your children. While his old school managed to test every single student returning last week. If you do get the chance to interview him, or even if you just bump into it, just ask him why. Why do you think Eaton tested every pupil? If complaining that you can't get a test is endless carping. Roddy is in Seven Oaks. Roddy, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Roddy. My question is, what is the origin of the british military salute? That's a nice question. Specifically british? Specifically british or just saluting in general? Well, I imagine a lot of western militaries have very similar salutes, but it's. It's presumably something that we might have led the way in developing or influencing. That's bold. I'd have thought. The Romans I just lent towards the Romans. I've seen movies, of course. The Romans seem to do the hand in the air rather than touching the. A cap or a hat. Yes. So it's the idea of actually raising the hand to touch the cap in a very smart way. Well, I shall definitely put the question on the board. Would you allow me to essay an answer? Of course. I fear it may undermine your hopes or beliefs that it would be something peculiar to Britain. But of course, I could be wrong. I think that it was linked to the lifting of visors. Okay, that's interesting. I actually have. This is bothering me particularly because one of your favorite expressions is doff cap, tug, forelock. And I wondered if it might have had some connection to that type of thing. Probably, ultimately it might do lifting of the cap, raising of the visor, saluting of a superior officer or indeed a flag or an anthem, but we shall put it on the board. But just in the midst of my memory, that lifting of the visor. And that would probably involve chivalry and sort of post norman type, so french rather than english. But we shall find out for you. You weren't a military man yourself. Not at all, no. So, I mean, that doesn't mean you'd know if you were, but it's the last thing you're supposed to do on the parade ground is start asking questions of the regimental sergeant major. Lovely question, Roddy. The origin of the british military salute and stroke or military salutes in general. Zero. 345-606-0973 Paul's in Swansea. Paul, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Paul. It's the champagne one. Oh, yes. Why do we smash a bottle of perfectly good champagne on the hull of a boat? It was to give it good luck. Yes. I think Queen Victoria was the first one to use champagne because if the ship had a royal name in it, she thought champagne would be best fitted, really? And for Royal Navy ships with champagne. So prior to Queen Victoria, it never happened? No. Prior to Victoria, they used goblets filled with wine and they smashed a goblet against the ship. But they launched so many ships, it got too expensive. Right. So they decided on champagne. Okay. And the Americans, during Prohibition, they filled an empty water bottle, empty boom, over water, and smashed it against the ship. I don't know. I mean, what are your qualifications? First, I read it in my local maritime museum about six months ago and I thought, oh, that's interesting. Do we know the first ship? The first one, that or in the reign of Queen Victoria. I'd be guessing now, James. So you go back in time, you go back thousands of years, they'd do some good luck ceremony or they'd invoke the flipping norse gods or something like that, before they launched a ship. So that makes. That's like leaving a glass of sherry out for Father Christmas, isn't it? You throw a glass of wine at the ship and then it evolved in different parts. And here we use a bottle of champagne because it's a mark of class and respect. And the Vikings, when they launched their ships, they would sacrifice a slave. Would they really? Yeah. Cool. And other people, then they probably sacrificed an ox. I mean, I'd rather use the champagne, but Queen Victoria was the first to use champagne. If you saw it in your local museum, then that's good enough for me. It was my local maritime museum. I love the place. It's brilliant. What's it called? Give it a plug. Probably needs all the help it can get. At the moment, it's Swansea Maritime Museum in the marina in Swansea. So when Paul in Swansea rang up to tell me about his local maritime museum, I could perhaps have worked out that he would be talking about Swansea Maritime museum. I thought. I don't know why. I thought it might be in Penarth. Anyway, that was nowhere near us, nearer Cardiff than Swansea. Round of applause for Paul, please. Nice answer. We like that Stephen's in Wandsworth. Stephen, question or answer? Good afternoon, James, it's a question. Carry on. Why, for birthdays, at christmases, etcetera, do we celebrate with cake? When did that start? Ah, well, I presume that it is a bit like pancake day. It's the quality, the historical quality of the ingredients. So, eggs and eggs, butter, flour, milk, it's all the most expensive things you have in your larder. So you. I mean, the short answer is, because cake is delicious. And then you say, well, why don't you? Why don't you have it every day? And I say, because it's expensive. And there's your answer. So you have it on special occasions. Oh, I guess that makes sense. Yeah, yeah, makes sense. But I just. Well, I've got no qualifications apart from good old fashioned british common sense, so I shall. Well, if you've got that, then you're way ahead of most of us. Stop your endless carping. So I shall. Let me carp away. Let me carve away. Put birthday cakes on the list. Because there might be. I mean, funnily enough, given that the last fellow mentioned Queen Victoria, it's this because Prince Albert's often credited with coming up with a Christmas card, isn't it? So there might be a more specific rather than something that just sort of evolved into common usage. There might be a specific source of the tradition. I shall find out, I do hope so do I now. So do I. Now, Steve, now you've piqued my interest. Why do we have birthday cakes? Why do we have cakes on our birthdays? Zero three four five six. Zero six. Zero nine seven three. Twelve. Forty two is the time. It's rather jolly this week, isn't it? So do planes have horns? Oh, yes, they do. Why does frozen. Why does defrosted frozen beer? Why is it less fizzy than pre frozen beer? Classical music question was, lovely white and yellow cars. I did the origin of the military salute. The rationale behind birthday cakes or birthdays being marked with a cake. We've done the champagne boat and we've done breathable paint. We're going rather well this week. Russell's in Perth, in Scotland. Russell, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Russell, what is the origin of the phrase, by the way? By the way? By the way, what do you mean, by the way? Well, it's pretty commonly used, isn't it? I mean, James is on at ten, by the way, not seven. But what's the origin? Where did that come from? Well, I don't know what it means, but if you were walking up a road, then the main bit of business is the road. Right. But something in addition to the main bit of business, something alongside the road is, by the way. So I'm telling you a story about x, but I think you might be mildly interested in y, which is vaguely relevant to x. So I say, oh, xxx, by the way. Why no, maybe. Okay. I don't want to take around stewards inquiry, though. Well, we won't need a stewards inquiry because I haven't awarded myself the round of applause yet. But if you see it as something, if you see it as introducing a new topic not directly relevant to the topic previously under discussion, then that's by the way. And to think of it in literal or physical terms, it would be. I'm walking along the road. The blackberries are, by the way. I like it. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's strong. I mean, I don't have the qualifications to award myself a round of applause, but I'm usually quite strong on wordy stuff. Anybody who has a little extra to add, maybe you could invite onto it. Well, that's what I'll do. By the way. By the way, James, by the way, Russell, you're more than welcome. I shall speak to you soon. Mind how you go. 1244 is I squeeze in one more quickly? Yeah, why not? Chris is in Henfield. Chris, question or answer? An answer? James? Oh, yes, carry on. Right, okay. The beer one. Yes. Okay, so my view is there's three scenarios. I'll come to you quickly. I thought this would be an easy one. I've got the. I'll come back to you after the break. All right. I'm going to hit this break on time if it kills me. Chris, stay where you are. It's 1245 coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. Localized lockdowns are spreading and there's talk of curfews from 10:00 p.m. Anything to avoid another national lockdown. Sheila Fogarty on LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 1248 is the time, 7 hours a week Chris Grayling is doing for this big ports company that's paying him 100,000 pounds per year, so about 275 quid an hour. Interesting, isn't it, how things unfold? Anyway, stop your endless carping and crack on with mystery. Hour zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Richard is in Aylesbury. Richard, question or answer? Sorry, unfortunately, stewards inquiry. I'll be the judge of that, pal. Go on, do your worst. Unfortunately, it's against you and you're my favorite presenter, but. Oh, the yellow number plate thing. So it's a legal thing, really. It's, uh. You're not allowed to show a white reflection at the rear of your car legally, so white has to be the front. And the reason yellow was chosen for the back is that the next color, that the black numbers will stand out more proudly. No, I know, but why can't you have a yellow one on the front? Because you have to show white to the front. You can't show any other lights, any other color light to the front. Why not white? Well, it's legal, isn't it? Yeah. And why is it. Why is that the law? So that you know what the front is and what the back is. Well, no, I'm not. I'm not here to answer what the law is. I'm just saying that that is what the reason is. I am the law. This is mystery. I am the law. So. No, we knew that it was the law. The question was, I'm the law. The question. The question was why? Why is that the law? I don't know. Who makes that law. But you're not sure? Green light or blue light? No, the reason is so that you. So that you know for sure whether a vehicle is coming towards you or going away. Going to give you a round of applause, because I think you're a firefighter, and I do everything I can to support firefighters at every turn. But your stewards inquiry has been rejected. Thank you. Have a good day. Chris is in heaven. Back to Chris in Hemfield. Crikey. Sorry, mate. I forgot all about you. Where were we? Do it as quickly as you can. When people say there are three possible answers, I've got to tell you, my heart sinks a little. Okay. Right, so basically, the beer. The beer bottle is flat because the seal's been broken. Right. So if you're quick enough. Yeah. And it just gets a little bit frozen, the liquid won't expand and you won't break the seal. So it's broken in a tiny way. It's not blown the lid off, but it's. It's. It's breached the sanctum of the seal. There you go. Yeah. Qualifications? Engineer. You sound beer drinker. You sound like you're made up. Engineer. No, hang on a minute. Beer drinker, I believe. Engineer. You were yanking my chain, I think, sir. Have a round of applause. He's right. I think he must be, because it's the expansion. It's just not on a big enough scale to blow the lid. I blow the bloody doors off. It's just enough for gas to seep out, Basil. Which means that you've got a flat beer, but it. Because it's frying anyway. Basil's in St. Albans. Basil, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Basil. Yes, the birthday cake one. Oh, good. Carry on. So, to understand the answer to that, you could understand why we put candles on birthday cakes as well. Oh, go on. Because back in ancient Greece, when people wanted their prayers to be heard by the gods, they would bake little cakes of bread, put a candle on there, light it, and at night they would leave it on the window sill. So when the wind will blow out that candle, that smoke, which is symbolic, will carry their prayers up to the gods and be heard. That's why when we have a birthday, we say, you make a wish. You're good at this. On you. Hey, sorry. You're good at this. I've just. Not a lot trivia. Well, it's not trivia now, is it? Doesn't get. It doesn't get more important. Where did you read it? Can you remember what are your qualifications? By Peter Laurie? You know, laws and superstitions, something like that. So superb on that. So I mean it. So it is an evolution of a previous superstition, in a way. Yeah, sure, sure, sure. So, I mean, I haven't read any other theories regarding it, but. So you bake a cake to wish for something like the cake. Yeah. Well, mate, it's a quality answer. Do you want a round of applause, Basil? I think, as it's a first time quality. Yes, absolutely. It's very richly deserved. Well played. I hate it when people take mystery house seriously. It's just a bit of fun, you know. I'm not talking to Basil, I'm talking to the producer. She wants me to announce. Announce. She wants me to announce that the only answer we need now is the origins of the phrase, by the way, which I think I answered fairly. We've got all the other answers that we need. So everyone else says the producer can stand down unless you can answer the question about the origins of the phrase, by the way. It's 1253. That's six minutes left. And you're encouraging me to turn callers away. That's very bold producing Michael's in Tunbridge Wells. Michael, question or answer? Here's a question. Carry on, Michael. It's quick, go on. I've watched the budget speech for many years and I've noticed that it's always the deputy speaker is in the chair and not the speaker for an important thing like that, it would have been the speaker. So I'm not sure why that is. No, nor am I. That's your question, is it? Maybe Theo can answer it. Theo's not allowed to. Well, he can ring in like everybody else does, but he doesn't. He's a political journalist, not a sort of constitutional trivia mine. We shall find out for you. Why is it there was the deputy speaker who's in charge for the budget? There might be an obvious answer to that. It might just be a tradition that nobody knows the origins of. Either way, the number is the same. Zero. 345-606-0973 yeah, I can see a little bit of a problem on the horizon. Bear with Philip's in Woking. Philip, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer to the saluting question, is it? Carry on. Yes. So we actually lasted this together in January and something about the. I didn't think raising the visors. And then just to give a bit further on top of that for the chap who's asking about doffing the cap. The reason that the british army does it with an open hand was to show back in the day that if you sent a messenger to go parley or speak to somebody that their hand was empty. There wasn't a knife or a blade or anything. No, no, you're good. Yeah. So the lifting of the visor is the generic origin, but the specific british military salute involves the open palm to demonstrate. I mean, you could have a knife in your left hand. You could. But then your arms pinned to the side, sort of at a position of attention. That is part that is. I mean, it's a formal salute. It's not just a hand, is it? You've got to be. Yeah, it is. So it's got to stand to attention. So, heels together, arm by your side. Or not heels together. No, sorry, you carry on. Yeah, heels together, 30 degree angle. I'm exceptionally. Don't like. You go top to bottom if you wished. It's a long time since I was the worst, the worst ever RAF cadet that wing Commander Biddy had ever had the misfortune to encounter. And I quote him directly there, Philip. But it was. I thought he was together. It's all there. It's ten years since I was probably the worst cadet the army ever had, but I'm still here now, so round of applause for Philip, who's revealed his qualifications. I love that Theo is in Leicester Square. Theo, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The reason the deputy speaker is always in the chair at the House of Common, in the House of Commons for the budget debate is because as the deputy speaker, he is also the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, which is, of course, the committee that initiates proposals for raising taxation and budget. The budget is always about taxation and so therefore it is customary that the deputy speaker is in the chair and not the speaker himself for the budget. Qualifications. Political journalist at LBC for six and a bit years. Political journalist for ten years. That's fair enough, I think. Is that all right? Does that allow it? I'm just taking. Actually, someone else has got a question for you. There you go. James is in Barnett. James, what would you like to ask the political editor? I'd like to ask him, why are we called. Why do we call left wingers and right wingers? I do have a little suggestion, but I'm not sure what the answer is, really. Theo, do you know? No, I don't. Wait there, wait there. Let me just. I mean, I assume it's because. Well, assume it's never a. Never a good thing to do. Why are left wing. Give me two minutes, James. No, you can't look stuff up. It's the only rule we have on misery. It's to do with the french parliament and the post revolution french parliament. I can't remember the details. And add the origins of the French Revolution. Jane. From 1789. That's right. Don't look stuff up, Theo. Theo, I can see through you like a window, mate. Do not look stuff up because we were about to do something quite special and now you might have spoiled it. Well, but how does it. Well, in terms of someone comes on mystery hour and says, maybe Theo could answer that. And then I did the first one. And then Theo pops up and answers it. You know what? You know what the crowds are thinking? You know what the audience is thinking at this point in proceedings. Does he or doesn't he get one of. One of them? One of those. One of those. Does he get one of what? Sorry, I like this. I'm going to let Sheila Fogarty. The cameras aren't on, are they? Sheila, could you make like river fate, Joaquin Phoenix in Gladiator and do the thumb. Thumb up or thumb down? Always up, is it, mate? This is for you. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Hang on, hang on. How come I got to be the gladiator when it was in fact Caesar's wife that did that? Wasn't it? Wasn't it, Caesar? She used to give the nod, didn't she? I think that was one in her elegant toga and beautiful long hair. But in the film with Russell Crowe, as opposed to in your actual history, it was. I think it was wacky Phoenix. And a round of applause for Theo as well, Josh, if you would. And the answer, it was french revolutionaries, wasn't it? It was revolutionaries to the left, loyalists or royalists to the right. Post, I think, post revolution. That's it. We've done the board, we've done it all. Look at all the people getting in touch. We didn't do, by the way. By the way. Shall we ask quickly, Theo Sheila, do you know Theo, Sheila? I have no idea where the origins are, by the way. Well, I think it's obvious. I think if you're on a road, the blackberries are, by the way. So if you're telling a story and then you add something additional, it's, by the way, that's not great. That's not obvious at all. I'll take a round of applause for that. Thank you, Josh. Thank you very much. It's coming up to 1259. As you may have gathered, Sheila Fogarty has entered the building. The empress. The empress has arrived. We'll be doing it all again tomorrow morning from ten. Thanks for today. It was rather fun, wasn't it? And please remember that it might be a matter of life and death and you might be desperate to get a test, but for God's sake, stop your endless carping. And the empress's thumb is firmly down when it comes to the government's response at the moment to this pandemic. Almost 2 million people in northeast of England will see more restrictions following a rise in coronavirus cases. Already, 3 million or so are in a deeper lockdown than the rest of us in the northwest, similar numbers in the West Midlands. So essentially half of England is in deeper lockdown than the rest of the country. The new measures include restrictions on household mixing and pubs closing earlier at night. Northumberland, Newcastle, Sunderland, north and south Townside, Gateshead and County Durham council areas will be affected from midnight tonight. The leader of Newcastle City Council joins me at 215 there or thereabouts. The London mayoral hopeful joins me as well. I'll ask him what he would do if London rates spike again. The standard headlines are talking about curfews from 10:00 on your radio. On global player and play. LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.