Do only cats purr? - 8 Jan 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I don't know if you're familiar with Mystery Hour. If you are, this is for you. We've just had our first ever visual mystery submitted. If you follow me on Twitter, mrjamesob is the name that you need. I've just retweeted Jonathan's photograph, our first ever visual mystery for you there. What's he on about? Well, this is a regular feature, the first of 2015, in which you ring in with a question and then someone else rings in with an answer, or someone rings in with a question and then you ring in with an answer, or you don't do anything at all. You just sit there and let the humor, the enlightenment, the illumination and the elucidation wash over you like much foaming surf. Aha. It's the who's, the whys, the whens, the wheres, the withers, the wherefores, and even the odd whence. Why do we do that? Where does that come from? Whats that all about? When did that happen? Why does that happen? What is it? Its got to have an answer. And youve got to have in your mind a fairly clear confidence that it will have an answer. I mean, theres no point ringing up asking me what the meaning of life is. Everybody knows 42. So it is as academic or as silly as you please. If I tell you that we regularly take calls from a couple of professors, university professors, to answer some of the more complicated questions, but at the same time, we regularly take calls from people who, when I say, how do you know this? They reply, I saw it on telly last week. It gives you a full gamut, the whole range of inspirations on which you can draw when answering a question, which should give you an idea of the parameters in which you can ask it. Just ring in. If you don't, if, you know, if I'm not making it clear, have a little listen. If I am making it clear, ring in and have a pop. 60609 is the number to call. Okay? And if you hit the numbers now, you will get through a massive change of pace, huge crunching, change of gear after the conversations about freedom of speech prompted by events in Paris yesterday. So you've got a better chance than you usually have at 12:05 on a Thursday, of grabbing a phone line into the building. And remember, if you hear me say the number, and this is true all the time, if you hear me say the number out loud, it means I've got a phone line into the building, if you never say the number out loud, you end up speaking to the same three people every day. And mystery hour really wouldn't work if you did that. So should we just crack on? I think we've done that one before, actually. George is in Kensington. George, what would you like to ask James? Hello. Good afternoon. We had a question that came up over Christmas when we were going through the chutneys and the jams and the cheeses and things. What is the difference between a preserve and a conserve? A jam in a jam and a conserve. Is it jam and marmalade? Marmalade is a. You see, when you have. You can get strawberry consonant. You can get strawberry preserve, but what's the difference? Because they appear to be the same. I think you're a bit. You're a bit. How can I put this politely, George? I think you're a bit too rarefied for the likes of us. I was just thinking. You were asking what's the difference between jam and marmalade? But you're not. You're saying, what's the difference between strawberry conserve and strawberry preserve? Exactly. Yeah. What sort of a buffet do you serve in your home, George? It was a spread. It was a good spread. It was a spread indeed, wasn't it? Well, I'll try and get you an answer. What's the difference between a conserve and a preserve? Do they kind of mean this? Maybe there is no difference. In which case, we'll move it on. What's the difference between jab and marmalade? Steve is in Epsom. Jones, the engineer has taken an executive decision that. We haven't had this before, Steve, so fill your boots. Thank you very much indeed, James, I apologise for talking like this, but I've been speaking like a racing commentator ever since I woke up this morning, so please take my apologies. I told you, Jones, didn't I? That's on your head. Have we got a question, Steve, or just more hilarity? No. Hello. Good morning. Hello, James. Sorry. I do apologize for that. I'm very sorry. Don't know what happened. Yes, my question is, I have a little cat called Jess. She's lovely and she purrs. I want to know, are cats the only animals in the world that purr? You mean domestic cats? Are you asking whether big cats purr. I know. No, no, no. I know that big cats do purr, but I want to know. I didn't know. Are cats the only animals in the world that purr or give a sign of some sort of, like, you know, they do it because they're happy. Yes. So what do other animals do when they're happy? I know the cats purr, but are there other animals that show signs of happiness? Okay. I mean, humans sort of. I mean, humans show signs of happiness. Dogs do. They wag their tail. I think the joke didn't work, mate. Let's. Let's be honest. That racing commentator business, I'm sure it must have been a great idea when you had it, but it didn't quite translate into the real world. Was that the real reason for ringing in? Because the question doesn't make any sense, even less sense than the joke. Are cats the only animals in the world that purr? Right, yes. Round of applause for me, please. No, no, no. Kelly's in Stansted. Yes, yes, yes. Question or answer, Kelly. Question, please. Yes. Hello, hello, hello, hello, hello, hello, hello. I'm a first time caller. Are you? Welcome. Thank you. When a bird is on an overhead wire, why does it not become electrocuted like we would if we were to reach up and touch an overhead wire? It's not earth. Oh, isn't it? Is that it? Because, I mean. Well, this is a question from my ten year old son. I think it's because it's not earthed. So actually, you wouldn't. You'd be fine if you were up there, but if you were flying a kite from down here and it hit the wire up there, you'd be toast. I'm surrounded by. But don't feel bad. I mean, it's a good question. Well, it's my son asking, and I kept. Listen, I like the question, but I don't like you blaming it on a ten year old. All right? Just leave the lad out of it. Kelly, if you want to ask the question, you ask the question, all right? Okay. Okay. If that's definitely right, then that's fine. So just to explain to him, the electrical current has to pass through something, it has to have a destination, doesn't it? And if it's not earth, it won't actually pass through because it's got nowhere to go. Right? Okay. Okay. I'll feed that back to my son. Well, let me know how you get on. Okay. Thank you. God bless. Two for two. New year. New me. Jim's in Wandsworth. Question or answer, Jim. It's a question, James. My eleven year old daughter asked this question. What is this? Everyone's prefacing their questions by passing it off, palming it off on young, defenseless children who aren't here to defend themselves. I know, but I didn't want to embarrass myself. If you think it's a stupid question. Exactly. Go on, what is it? She asked. She said, if there were no gravity, would there be air? She said, given that air has weight. And she said, is it the gravity that holds air down or is it the atmosphere that pushes it down? Because the higher you go, the air gets thinner. What are you feeding this girl? Well, do you know what? She absolutely stumped me with this one because she's got. I'm still stumped. Ask me again a bit more slowly. Okay. If there was no gravity. Yeah. Would there be air on the ground? Given that air has a weight and the atmosphere, is it pushing it down or is it the gravity pulling it down because the higher you get, the air gets thinner? She asked this question at Christmas, similar to your conserve and preserve guy at the Christmas table. My niece's boyfriend was with us and he has a science degree. He couldn't from St Andrews and he could not answer the question. So if there wasn't any gravity, would all the air disappear? Yes. What she was saying, is it? No, mate, I get it and I think we'll get an answer. I'm just thinking I've got a bit of parent envy. That's a genius eleven year old you've got going on there. Well, she's not doing too bad. No, she listen like there are. She takes after her mum, Jim, doesn't she? She absolutely takes after her mother. She does not get the gene from her father. Let's get her an answer. It's the least we can do. So what have we got? Is it just the jams and the gravity difference in a conserve and a preserve? And if there was no gravity, would all the air disappear? Alex is in Richmond. Question or answer? Alex. Morning, James. Answer. Go on then. A couple of years ago, you are one of the punters asked you a question about the difference between pickles and so on. This is similar. The jam and the conservative is very similar. I answered that one. And the knowledge comes from my delightful wife who's a gourmet cook. Conserve is rather like pickling. You cook the fruit, in this case, let's say strawberry jam. You cook it to dispel any bacteria. Yeah. And then you preserve it to keep it so it's naturally preserved. It's sugar. You won't add anything. Now, jam. Jam has pectin sugar, sometimes glucose and other additives to give it longer life. To the first one, you don't even add sugar. No, it's naturally preserved. You literally just cook it and then seal it. Yeah. You've got to seal it to keep the air out. What's that? Conserve or preserve? That conserve is you seal it, the natural fruit. You have to cook it first or you should cook it first. Put it that way. Yes, kids. Because otherwise you may have issues. Yeah. You might have issues with fungal end up in a jam. Yeah. In the jam. You. You cook it and you add sugar and you add to give it long life. So a preserve is a method and a conserve is a content. Yeah. Qualification. My wife's a good cook. Yes, she's. She's gone. What now? I'm very sorry to hear that. She was a. She was a gourmet cook. She's not. I'm not going to pick holes in it now as a qualification, am I, Alex? Round of applause. Beck given two. God bless, mate. Thank you. It's coming up to 12:15. Let's squeeze in one more question. Jill's in Beckenham. Question or answer? Jill? Question. Carry on. In the theatre, why are the downstairs seats called stalls? That's a lovely question. Nope, I've got nothing and all of you, so we'll come back to that straight after the travel news. Joe, why are the seats downstairs called the stalls and then upstairs you have the stress circle or the upper circle circles. Good law. I like that question a lot. If you know the answer. Zero. 345-606-0973 or indeed, if you have a question of your own, then the number remains the same. We need an answer to the stalls question and we need an answer to that. If there wasn't any gravity, would there be any air in the earth's atmosphere? This is LBC, 90 minutes after twelve. Well, you live and learn. Let's get back to mystery out the questions that are currently in need of answers. If there wasn't any gravity, would there be any air in the earth's atmosphere? And why are the seats on the ground floor of a theater called the stalls? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer either of those, or if you've got a question of your own, and a lot of you pointing out, of course, I said earlier to one of the first questioners that cats are the only creatures that purr. A lot of you pointed out that, according to David Cameron, the queen was purring at some point last year, I think, after he delivered the news of the scottish referendum to her. And that was the description he employed while talking to Barack Obama, if memory serves, Phil's. Some people are suggesting gorillas can purr as well, but I've already taken the round of applause for that. What do you think this is, the open university? Phil's in Cheshire. Phil, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Oh, I've got an answer, mate, thank you. I'm not in Cheshire, by the way. I move around a lot. It's all right, I'm a tanker driver. Every time you come on, you say that. You're like me going, I'm 42 years old and I went to public school. Where are you now? I want to get the records. Right. I'm on my way to Leeds Bradford Airport, so time to get the kettle on when I'm there. So you're in Yorkshire, then, are you? Yes, I am. Let's start again. Phil's in Yorkshire. Phil, question or answer? Oh, it's an answer, James. Oh, good. Carry on, sir. Right. The earth's atmosphere is held onto the earth by the earth's gravitational field. If the gravity wasn't there, we would lose our atmosphere, as has some of the smaller bodies around us. In the solar system, the moon has a much smaller gravitational pull, therefore doesn't have very much of an atmosphere at all. Qualifications? Well, mainly because I listened in school, but more often, actually, I answer all the science and nature questions on that quiz game. I was like going for the little green bits of cake. First trivial pursuit. Do you call them cake? We call them cheeses in our house. Oh, I call them bits of cake. I've had this argument before. Not an argument, mate. It's just not an argument, it's just bad in ours. Bit of banter, Phil. Been a bit of banter, mate. Come on, it's free country. It is. Freedom of speech, freedom of thought, freedom of speech. Do I need to check this answer? Because I've got a professor on the other line. So you might enjoy having the application of academic authority, or you might feel patronized and condescended to by the suggestion that I would check it with Professor Howe. Well, go on, then. All right, Professor Hal, happy new year. Happy new year, James. How are you getting on? Very well, thank you. How did Phil get on? Phil? I'd like to give him the Professor Howell stamp of approval. I'm not going to unpick the moon thing because I don't think the moon had an atmosphere in the first place. But just to explain why, for the original caller, imagine water being boiled into steam. So water has mass and there's no doubt in our minds that the water would be held down by gravity. And therefore why shouldn't the steam be held down by gravity? Air, if you cool it down enough, will turn into a liquid. And if you had a little test tube full of liquid oxygen, you could see it had mass and therefore was pulled down towards the earth. Just because it's now a gas doesn't mean to say that mass has disappeared. So Phil was right. And lovely little question, if I may say so. Whoa. Well played. It wasn't a questioner, was it? Was his eleven year old daughter. So she could be turning up at your place soon. Professor hall at the University of Brighton, where you are, of course, the professor of the public understanding of science. Phil, I think you drive a tanker, don't you, Phil? I do. Hey, do you know what? That's another question, because now I'm purring. Rounds of applause all round, please. Joan. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Why is the ground floor of a theater called the stalls? And whatever questions you've got that are currently on the way. David is in Potter's bar. Question or answer, David? Question, James, please. Does eating cheese before you go to bed really give you nightmares? I'm asking because I had a big month of breathe the other night before I went to bed and had the craziest dream I've ever had. Probably. That's your answer. Probably. It's not necessarily a nightmare. It can just be a particularly graphic or surreal drink. I mean, I would say yes because when I eat you, sometimes I do it on purpose. Sometimes I go to bed after a good cheese board and I think, whoa, mate, you are in for some crazy dreams tonight. James. So you. So do you think there's actually some. Some fact in that statement, chemical in it or something? I sense from your response you want a slightly more authoritative answer than you. Me too, mate. So it's a. It's an interesting one. It is. And you're on. I'll get you for that. Is there a scientific explanation? Is there a scientific relationship between Cheese and dreams? It's 24 minutes after twelve. Cheese dreams, we call them. Steve's in Chingford. Steve. I'll stop now. Question or answer? Question, please. James, how you going? I'm all right, Steve, thank you. Thank you. All right. I don't want to know if ladybirds. Hibernate. Or because I've just opened the window and a load of them fell out on me and I've made about 100 all around. Are they there? They was all, Doso. Are they there for the cold or they hibernate. Are they alive still? They was moving slightly. It sounds like they were hibernating. I've never known of a ladybird hibernate, you know what I mean? So what would they do instead if they weren't hibernating, what would they be doing in the colder times? Just sort of chilling. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, there was over a hundred there. That's amazing. Where were you? Yeah. Hundred. I've never seen 100 lady birds working in a house. Yeah. And it back, mind you, it backed on to a cemetery. Right. And the reveal, as I opened the window, they all fell out. That was everywhere. A hundred. Lady, back in the air. Lady bird. You're covered in ladybirds? Yes. Wow. And. And it happened to me this morning. That's why I thought I bought this. I'll tell you what that is, Steve. That is topical. That's right. Current affairs, mate. Life on your radio. It only happened this morning. Do lady birds hydrobonate? And if not, what do they do? Where do they go? Because you don't see them in winter unless you, Steve. Opening windows, Steve. I'll get you an answer to that. Uh, Danny. Danny is in horn church. Danny, question or answer? I've got a question, please, James. Go on, then. Um, I'm getting married, uh, in March, and thank you very much. And my wife, to be warned me last night that the month before the wedding, in her words, um, she's going to be a hairy Mary, because. Did anyone vet this call? Legs, James? Because it needs to get to a certain length before she can have it properly waxed, blah, blah. But it got me thinking. I don't wax my leg hairs yet. Why do they stop growing when my head hair doesn't? Oh, I used to know the answer. Joke. Hang on a minute. But they don't stop growing, they fall out. No. What do you mean, no? I'd have bald legs. No, because they grow as well. They're falling out and growing all the time. It's a constant cycle of leg hair crops. Not so sure. I wear shorts a lot as well. What else could it be? You think that leg hairs that you've got there now, mate, are the same ones you had when you were 14. How old are you now? 34. So you've got 20 year old leg hair maybe. I don't know. No, it fell out and then you grew some new ones. Really? What else could it be? You know the old Sherlock Holmes line, the motto of mystery hair. When you've eliminated the impossible, whatever you are left with, however improbable, must be the truth. Truth. Either you've got 20 year old leg hair, we're going to dismiss that because it's nuts, or they fall out and grow again constantly on a never ending cycle of hair growth. I'm not sure. All right, then, I'm not going to take the round of applause, but when an expert comes on and provides the definitive answer and it proves to be an exact echo of my own, how are you going to feel, Danny? I'm going to invite you to my wedding. Oh, mate, that would be lovely. Seriously. But I tell you, I might even wax my legs. You can't say you're washing your hair either. No, I'm waxing my legs. It's 28 minutes after, so let's get Danny an answer. Clive is in Orpington. Clive, question or answer? Good morning. Wonderful show. Hello. Thank you. Tee to tee, off the tee you put the ball on. In golf, I know it could be looked like a tee, but is there any other explanation how the word evolved? The word tilde. T t e e. What you put the ball on, it's not only. It's not only what you put the ball on, it's also the, the name of the hole, isn't it? You, the beginning that. The bit where you hit the ball from is called the t. Why? Um. Do we like that? I think that's quite a good question. Why is it called the t to t off t? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Because it's not, I mean, the kickoff is self explanatory, isn't it? That's right. Because there's a kick off, if you could say the hitting. Hitting place. It's a hitter. It's a more fun if they did actually. Let's get your answer. Why do you play golf, Clive? Badly. Joanne said Romford. Joanne, question or answer? I've got an answer. Those aren't so worried about it. It's just the questions about cats being the only animal that can purr. Guinea pigs can purr. Can they? Yeah, if you, if you scratch them down their back, they purr and if you give them their favorite food, their purr. I think I could probably work this out for myself. What are your qualifications? I used to keep them as a child. So can you. What sort of purring is it. Is it like a cat's purr or is it a little different? Can you do it quite similar to a cat's purr now? I can't. Why not? Am I gonna believe you? I don't think you've ever heard a guinea pig power. I won't believe you. And if you can show me what it sounds like, no one can see you. No. What? Well, I'll do it then, and you tell me if it's cry. If it's close. Go on, I need it. How is that? Hold on. My son will do it for you. You've been together long, huh? Who's that? It's fun. I can do the old. I can do the purr. I like that. Do it again. Oh, it's like there's a guinea pig in the room. Look, give these people several rounds of applause quickly. It's 12:30 1240 is the time. Mystery hour is underway. Questions still needing answers. What is or is there a scientific relationship between cheese and dreams? Why is the ground floor of a theatre known as the stalls? I think I went definitive with leg hair. But he wasn't happy, was he? So why does your leg hair not carry on growing like your head hair does? And do lady birds hibernate? If you're just tuning in, I don't know what to say. Pam is in Moulsey. Pam. Question or answer? You can answer, James. Oh, good. I like answers. Go on, Pam. I thought you might. It's about your ladybirds. Oh, yes, they certainly do hibernate. Or rather, they overwinter, because if they get warmed up, they will sort of walk around. But probably the species that the gentleman found were harlequin ladybirds. They tend to cluster and they're not really very good for our ladybirds. Are these the ones that are eating our ladybirds? They're not actually eating our ladybirds. They're out eating our ladybirds. In other words, they're taking all the food. They're about twice the size of ours and around a bit. Harlequin ladybirds. Do they come from Japan or China or something? They come from Japan, but they were deliberately introduced into the USA to control aces. But it doesn't really work very well. You. I think I know the answer to this question because of your already expressed expertise. But what are your qualifications to answer the lady bird question? Well, I happen to be the secretary of the allotment association and I'm rather anal about looking into all the species we find on the plots. Well, that's a pretty definitive answer. Although containing a word I wasn't really expecting, I'll be honest with you, Pam and hibernating. So they do. But what he saw was probably a cluster. So they would normally hibernate individually, would they? Domestic lady Bird. Our local ladybirds tend to be more solitary. Yeah, but these, these harlequin interlopers, they are okay? It's enough to make it more like gangs, really. Enough to make your vote, UK. These bloody ladybugs coming over here. Squeeze. Squeezing out the indigenous ones. Pam. Round of applause for Pam. Thank you. She's still chuckling. How delightful. Robert's in Epsom. Robert, question or answer? It's a question. Come on, then. Right, from. From birth, a child will grow its first set of teeth. Yes. And then they'll lose that first set of teeth and then they'll. Then they'll have another set of teeth as they get to an adult. And I just wanted to know why they don't just have a continuous set of teeth growing. Well, you. But the teeth, the teeth can't grow themselves. No, they can't, no, but they don't grow themselves. They're not growing away because. You mean you go from tiny to big. So why don't, why don't you just have one set of teeth that grows with you? Yeah, I think the answer, it's the same. It's just evolution, mate. So I think the fact that you, you know, you could die of a rotten tooth, not even 400, 300 years ago, before penicillin and all of that, a rotten tooth was a major cause. A lot of these neanderthal skeletons and early man skeletons have evidence of big abscesses and even in tudor times, a rotten tooth could really do you damage. So I reckon, and this is just me thinking out loud, I reckon evolutionarily, in terms of evolution, you had a better chance of living longer if you got to swap your teeth when you were about twelve. I know, I know, teeth. If you've got a rotten teeth now, that can give you bad health still. But I still don't understand why. Well, evolution, evolution makes survival more likely if you've got a trait that you, that another creature doesn't have. So at some point, humans developed this ability to grow a second set of teeth. And the ones that developed it lived and the ones that didn't develop it eventually, over thousands of thousands of years, died. So why do we not grow once? So say, for instance, you get your teeth pulled out because you've been a bad boy and you haven't looked after them properly and you lose that. Why do we not have another set after that? We just don't mate. I mean, why don't you grow another leg when you get one chopped off? Well, that's a good point, but I'm not having it to do with the evolution. I think we'd have to get this answered by an expert. Well, who would be an expert on this? A dentist. You think a dentist will be an expert on why we have two sets of teeth? Why we don't grow another set after we don't grow another leg? Man, I'm like, this is ridiculous. You just don't. There's nothing there. Some people have three. Some people have three goes of teeth. I've read about people. And you want to know, why don't. More to which the answer will be, it doesn't provide you with a big enough evolutionary advantage. I'm going to leave the question on the board, Robert, because I sense I haven't given you satisfaction. No, that's right. Thank you. Carry on. Thank you. It's 1245. It's ten minutes to one. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we still seek answers to some questions. I thought I'd done the teeth question. Why do we have two sets of teeth? Why don't we have more or fewer? That was the question. If all your teeth get knocked out, why can't you grow some more? Zero. 345-606-0973 staying on matters anatomical. Why does your leg hair stop growing? I think it all falls out. But the person who asked the question, just like the person who asked the teeth question, wasn't satisfied with my answers. Why is the ground floor of a theater called the stalls? We must be able to do that. Stalls? Theaters, stalls, if you know that ring. Now, I've actually got five lines free and only eight. Nine minutes left. Zero. 345-606-0973 and is there any relationship between cheese and dreams? There must be. Come on. Allen's in Northwood hills. Alan, question or answer? It's a question, James. Good afternoon. Yes, I'm just about to cook a microwave meal. Living the dream. Living the dream, Alan. And it always tells me to make sure it's piping hot. Yes. What is the piping bit? How do I judge whether it's piping hot? Steam in it. Well, hey. Steam in it. The steam coming off it. That's piping, is it? Oh, yes. I don't think I expected piping. Why piping? Normally it would be going through pipes. All that steam. No, no, no. Hang on. It's because it has to be as hot as a hot. I know it's hot. As hot as a radiator. It has to be as hot as a radiator. And a radiator is made of pipes. Yes, I know that. That's it. Oh, yeah. What? That you. You're an ex plumber, you don't want. Piping hot means. Well, yes, but I mean what the piping bit means, it means it has to be as hot as a radiator. Piping. Piping. Yeah. Well, piping heat, but. Yes, I agree there. Piping hot. Yeah. So what are we saying? Are we saying how hot is piping hot? Or. Why do we use the word piping in the phrase piping? Exactly. Just say yes. Well, it's. Well, hot. Red hot makes sense because it's metal. Piping hot. So what are we looking for? Origin of the phrase piping hot or definition of the temperature? Piping hot. Yeah, well, just yes, indeed. If I. Which one, man? Which one? I can't do both. You're only allowed one question. So do you want definition of the phrase or another one in? Can I throw quickly? One in two. So he thought, all right, I'll have three. Why don't you teach your grandmother to suck eggs? But what? Have you heard that saying? Of course I have. But why are you saying it? You've already asked your question. Yeah, I know, I'm trying to throw another one in. I thought you had a meal to cook. Yeah, I do. It's cooking in the microwave. Is it piping hot yet? No, that I don't know yet. When you do, ring me back, tell me the answer to your question. Let's try find out. Halina, Helena is in Greenfield. Helena, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Basically, you know how little babies, they survive for six months on just breast milk or on formula milk before you wean them? Before you wean them, yeah. Yeah. Correct. Yes, for six months. They're developing at a really fast pace and they're growing just on breast milk or formula milk. So, theoretically, is it possible for a human being to survive maybe a whole life just on breast milk or formula milk? Yeah. Is it? Yeah. How do you know that? Well, it's obvious. Why? Well, if a two month old can survive on it, then a 22 year old can survive on it. It's just a question of quantity. You wouldn't be able to produce enough milk to feed a grown man. But if you were using formula, you could feel your boots be fairly boring. He doesn't like the idea. Why do you want to know? Do you hate cooking? Well, I've just started weaning my baby and I thought, what if I just go on and feed her with the milk? Well, don't do that. No, I can't do that. No. But is it, is it kind of how you call it? Is it even possible? Yeah, you could work. It would be biologically possible. You could live on milkshakes if you wanted to. Oh. I was at school with a lad who lived on pot noodles for nine months and then he had to get taken to hospital because all of his insides had sort of seized up. Ouch. Okay, I got my answer then. I think you have. I may have misunderstood the question, but formula milk is a very movable feast anyway, if you pardon the pun. If it had everything in it that you need to survive, what wouldn't it have in it? It's got fiber in it, hasn't it? I mean, it might be a diet, might not be a great diet, but I don't think it'd kill you. Logan is in Windsor. Question or answer, Logan. Hello, James. It's an answer to your question of the cheese and nightmares, the relationship between cheese and drink. What might it be? Ah, right. Okay. Well, cheese is actually full of something called precursors to neurotransmitters. They're, it's tryptophan and tyrosine that it's full of. Most dairy products and proteins do have those amino acids in them, and what they do is tyrosine especially will flood your brain with noradrenaline or norepinephrine, which is the staying awake and alertness neurotransmitter. So once your brain's full of that, you'll, even though you're tired and you'll be asleep, which will be caused by the tryptophan that's affecting the serotonin in the cheese. You'll go to sleep fairly easily, but then your brain will start to have pockets of activity in it, and that's what causes the nightmares. Right, I'm going to give you a round of applause, first of all, for getting more amazing words into this answer than we've ever had before on mystery. Now we're going to find out whether you're right or not. What are your qualifications, Logan? Qualifications are that I've worked with people on psychotropic medication for the last 15 years. And one of the things that you have to look at is diet. When they're on certain types of medication, like Maois, because they can't eat cheese when they're on it. Wow. And it turns you another round of applause. That is one of my favorite answers of all time. So it's true. It's like. Cheese is almost like a drug. Well, you know, bodybuilders have these protein shapes. Well, they're made of whey. They're made of whey protein, which is basically. Which. Yeah. Which is basically just sort of refined bits of cheese. No way. And if you read the composition on the back of them, they're full of amino acids. They're just full of them. And you'll see that the two of the most prevalent ones in there are tryptophan and tyrosine. Is that why you get a craving? I get cheese craving sometimes. Is that why? Well, I mean, it could be, but, I mean, a lot of people have a glass of milk before they go to bed because it's full of tryptophan, which affects serotonin, and serotonin would help you feel comfortable and warm and just make you go to sleep, which is what makes. And then the other stuff kicks in and you start tripping. Dreaming. Yeah. The tyrosine. William, I'm getting shouted out by the producer. I've been talking to you for too long. Apparently, I'm not allowed to ask questions of my own. After all. The callers ask the question. Great work, logan. Two rounds of applause for brilliant words and brilliant knowledge. David is in stains with the last word of the. I think the last word of this week's mystery, which I presume means it must be an answer. It is. Journey. Recess. Carry on, David. Stalls in a theatre? Yes. The original theatres didn't have seats where the stalls now are. They were standing places. And the definition of a stall is a standing place, which you would see if you were to go to, for example, the Globe Theatre on the south bank here in London, where they've reproduced the theatrical experience of Shakespeare's times. Qualifications, David? None. Absolutely none. Well, all right, now, how do you know that, then? Where did you pick it up? I just read a lot. That's a qualification. The greatest qualification of all, David. Round of applause for the reader. Good man. You're welcome. I'm giving it to you. I think the nerves overcame him. It's coming up to 01:00. That's it from me for another day. Good grief. Mystery. I was. It certainly felt like a relief today from the diet that we have otherwise been addressing, a diet that we will no doubt return to tomorrow, and which I think my colleague Sheila Fogarty will definitely steer you back towards in a matter of moments. I'm James O'Brien. It's just approaching 1259 and this is LBC.