Why is Easter early this year - 24 Mar 16

On LBC three minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to get the answers to the questions that have had you puzzled for the longest time. The number you need is zero 345-606-0973 get that into your phone now and use judicious use of redial if you struggle to get through, because there are many opportunities to get through, not least because of the two rules of mystery which police repetition and dullness. Repetition in particular. Now that we've been running for so long and many new people are discovering us on a weekly basis and ringing in with questions that we have actually answered means if you don't get through at four minutes after twelve, it doesn't mean you won't get through at eight minutes after twelve. Dullness, however, is always a disqualifiable offence, and I'm afraid it's us that will decide whether or not your question is dull and our decision will be based upon this simple principle. Is the answer to whatever question you've asked likely to interest most people listening, or is it really only likely to interest you? Okay, that's pretty much it. It's. If you're new to this, the radio equivalent of the newspaper features the Q and A's, the kind of things that you've seen over the years in your newspapers and magazines. A reader writes in and says, why do we do that? What's that about? Where does that come from? How does that work? What's this? What's that? What's the difference? Whatever the question may be, and someone else writes in a few weeks later with the answer today. Thankfully, you don't have to wait days to get the answer. You can get it up on the board, on the radio, and within an hour, within 54 minutes, someone will provide you with an answer. I can't guarantee that, but I can guarantee two things. The first is you will know more by 01:00 than you do now. Whether or not it's knowledge that you're grateful for, whether it's not knowledge that you can find any use for in the future, I'm afraid I can't say. But I do know you'll know more by 01:00 today than you do now. And this guarantee is slightly less cast iron than the last one. But I haven't broken it yet. You'll probably laugh out. No, you will definitely laugh out loud between now and 01:00. I think that's pretty much it, isn't it? Should we crack on. Before I do, let me just tell you about. Actually, no, I'll tell you later. Andrew is in Herne Hill. Andrew, question or answer? Hello. It's a question, James. Splendid. Last night, in respect of the events in Brussels, they were projecting the colors of the belgian flag onto the London Eye and Big Ben, with the colors being orange, red and black, how do they project. What is black? How do they project black light? I just can't get my head around it. Well, that's a lovely question. I didn't see the projection, so there's no way it wasn't. It was just dark. So you had the orange and you had the other colors and then the bit that was black, just. Well, no, because then there'd be ambient lighting around which would sort of illuminate the. Where they didn't project. I. How do they do it? I don't know. That's a lovely question. So, I mean, it's very simple question as well. How do they project what appears to be, although it might be an oxymoron, the phrase black light. What is going on? We've got to get Andrew's head around this by 01:00 today. I'm now as confused as you are. I didn't even see it. I can't understand it. James, this is almost what mystery hour is invented for. I'm not going to big it up too much, because when I do that, we don't get an answer. But someone will know the answer. That someone will work in the industry. I always remember Gail Porter being broadcast onto the side of the House of Commons, but I don't think there was any black light involved in that. Seven minutes after twelve is a time. Can you answer Andrew's question? Oh, three. Well, you know the number. They'll give you a quick heads up on this, because it should be a very interesting interview. My colleague Ian Dale will be joined by Suzanne Evans, who got suspended from Ukip yesterday for speaking her mind. I think she did anyway, but I'm not entirely sure, because, of course, whatever you may think of that party, it's supposed to be the home for people who feel that freedoms of speech have been compromised elsewhere. Do tune into Ian Dell after 05:00 he'll be with you from four. I think it's her first interview since her suspension from Ukip for. Well, I forget what for, actually. It just. It just seemed to be a strange juxtaposition of libertarianism and censorship. So do tune into Ian to find out more about that later. Seven after twelve is a time. Jasmine is in Halston with a question or an answer? Jasmine, it's a question, please. From my ten year old daughter. Yes. Well, she wanted to know. Last we were eating Sunday dinner and I had prepared rice and peas, traditional west indian style. She wanted to know what the difference between peas and beans were. And she had the cheek to say, mommy, James is clever. Can you ring him? I've got a lot of time for your little girl. She's going to go far. She's going to go far in life. So that's what I'm doing. When you make rice and peas, that isn't the sort of green pea in the sense that most non people who don't have west indian heritage will think of, is it? No. It's not your average bird's eye garden pea. No. So it's things like gongo peas, black eyed beans, kidney beans, those sorts of things that there are either dried or tinned for quick ability, and you reconstitute them. I think beans and peas are part of the same genus. I think they're part of the same family. I think the answer, disappointingly, might be that there is no difference between peas and beans. There's black eyed. Because most people say black eyed peas, don't they? Not black eyed beans. And you just said black eyed beans, but you meant black eyed peas, which goes to show how interchangeable the two words are. It's excitement to speak to you, you see. Well, that's. I mean, you've done that now you've cashed that check, but I need to find you an answer as well. So what is the difference between P's and beans? And if someone who's better qualified than I am turns out with an answer that is there is no difference, then they go, a round of applause. And your ten year old daughter gets the eternal satisfaction of knowing her question has been definitively dealt with. Exactly. Jasmine, take care. No, thank you. Happy Easter. Nine minutes after twelve is the time Paul's in grays. Question or answer? Paul. Hello, James. Hello. Can you tell me? Hello. Who and why did they bring Easter for back a week this year? It's because it's not set by calendar, it's set by the lunar calendar. So if we have Christmas day every year, that's set by the calendar. Calendar. No. And they done it with not as well they brought it back a year. Yeah, because it's set by the lunar case about where the last full moon was or something like that. Kind of. Or something. Something like that, yeah. Yeah. Ask me what my qualifications are. I just, I don't think it's fair, because I'm not taking the money I should do, because it should be next week. Well, I'm not here to sort out your economic problems. I'm here to answer your question about Easter. And the reason why Easter is being celebrated quite early this year is because it is set by the longest day of the year, or it's set by meteorological or lunar events that are not controllable by calendar. So you're going to throw in a couple of long words again. I reckon someone's going to phone, do exactly that. I'm going to throw in a couple of long words in the hope of masking the fact that I know I'm right, but I can't prove it. Well, I'll wait for someone to phone up. I think what you're looking for here is flokynoche nihili pillification. Now. You mean floxy noxy nihi pilification. Latin scholars in the house you got. Do you know what happened yesterday? My boss was taking me out for lunch and it was almost like I'd set it up myself. Paul. We got stopped on the way to the restaurant by a lovely bloke who I should say hello to. He was saying nice things about the program and then he said to my boss, he said, oh, I should tell you, I learned how to speak English by listening to James Oak Bryan's program on LPC. Pay rise now. But I'm not taking a round of applause. You're quite right. I shall wait until we get a more definitive answer to that question. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Why has Easter. Why is Easter so early this week? So in other words, how is Easter decided? When do they decide when to celebrate Easter Day? Difference between peas and beans and how do they project black light? Tom is in Balam. Question or answer, Tom? Question. James. First time caller, love the show. You're very welcome. My question is, as a sport of a league football team, I'm often watching the diddy printer on a Saturday afternoon. This long puzzled me as to why the first games that always seem to get results are from Scotland. So when you say lower league, are you talking vanorama or not that. A little bit higher than that. Yeah. Don't rub it in, don't overrule us. Good luck this season, by the way. Thank you. Next is over the years that the scottish clubs always seem to kick off the results and see all kick off at 03:00 when Scott seemed to finish earlier. Just by minutes, just by a minute or two or a few seconds, they seem to get results and then english results coming in. I wonder if there is an answer to that. Scottish refs play less extra time. It doesn't really make sense. Or maybe scottish players don't get injured so much because they're so hardy. Yes, it could be that. So then again, on the other hand, maybe it isn't. I'll find out. This is one of those questions. I'll be quite surprised if we get an answer, but I'll be absolutely fascinated to hear it. I don't know that it's often puzzled me, because I'm assuming scottish time isn't sort of a minute ahead, two minutes ahead. When you fly to Edinburgh, adjust your watches. Now, I'm pretty confident that the clocks in Scotland tell the same time as the clocks south of the english scottish border. 1213 is the time. It's a lovely question because I recognise the reality of it, although it's never really registered with me before. As someone who is sitting there waiting for the Vanorama national Conference results, just for another few weeks next season, I'm going to be waiting for the Vanarama Northern League results. Unless some miracle occurs at Agborough Stadium in the coming days. Iris is in Redbridge. Question or answer, Iris? Answer. Carry on. Answer. James. Easter yesterday. Yes. It's the first Sunday following the first full moon after the 21 March. So it is to do with the lunar calendar? It is, exactly so. I should have got a round of applause. Old Paul was just sort of raining on my parade. I'll get it instead. Well, I'm going to give it to you, Iris, because you're a more deserving cause than I am. But after you've gone, I'm probably going to pinch it back and pop it in my pocket. Yes. After 21st, the first Sunday after the first full moon after the 21 March. Correct. Round of applause for Iris. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Oh, hang on. What are your qualifications, madam? Oh, I've been. I'm nearly 87. There you get. You must pick up something along the way. That'll do. Experience is the answer to my. What are your qualifications? Experience, James. That's right. Of life. Beautifully employed, that experience, Iris, if you don't mind me saying so. Thank you so much. So we can cross that one off. We still need to know about peas and beans. The scottish football results, apparently. Scottish football games apparently finishing before english ones on Saturdays. Why would that be? Maybe it isn't true. Maybe you just notice anomalies. And how do you project black light onto buildings. This in response to the belgian flag being rather poignantly broadcast, projected onto some major british landmarks yesterday. Coming up to 12:15. The number you need to answer any of those questions is zero. 345-606-0973 and the number you need to ask a question of your own is cunningly identical. I think I might know the answer to the scottish question, he says, reading a tweet that contains the answer to the scottish question and then planning to pass it off as his own. If no one else rings in with the correct answer. It's 12:15 from the LBC travel center. Good afternoon, I'm Jay Louise Knight. It's 17 minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery with me, James O'Brien. Questions that still need answers. The difference between peas and beans. Come on, we need a beanologist. How do you project black light? Why do the scottish football results. Why do scottish football games start at the same time as english football games, but usually seem to end sooner in general? Any of your own questions as well? To add to this, Lucy is in Blackheath. Question or answer? Lucy, hi. It's a question. James, I was just recently seeing the distribution of wealth figures that said that 99% of the wealth is owned by 1% of the population. It's not quite that, but there's a massive imbalance. Yes, exactly. So I was wondering, when does it become unprofitable for the rich to hoover up any more of the wealth from the poor? Because we won't have any money to spend on anything. My favorite question ever, we're not going to get an answer to that million years. At what point does capitalism fail? Because the rich have got pretty much everything and the rest of us. Exactly. Well, you know, 62 individuals are now possessing the same as 3.6. I think you'd call it the tipping point. So I'm going to put it up as a proper question, although I say I would be amazed if there's an answer. Is that. Is that a tipping point? They might have done a tipping point for free market capitalism? Yes, please. Is it linked to the observation that it seems to me increasingly irresistible that the whole promise of infinite growth in a world of finite resources is bound to fail one day? Exactly. Well, this is it, isn't it? No one ever mentions the fact that capitalism needs to expand to continue and we live in a finite world. Hang on, I just did. What do you mean, no one ever mentions it? I just mentioned it. No one generally mentions it. Too scary. It makes your teeth. Itch that's why. So we want to know, is there a tipping point for free market capitalism? Is there a tipping point at which the redistribution of wealth upwards would end because it has ceased to be possible to harvest any more from ordinary people for that 1% that owns whatever the epic figure may be today? There's one family in America, the family that owned Walmart owned more than half of the rest of the country put together. I think 20 after twelve is the time. Lucy, I love that question, but as I say, if it has got an answer, I'll be a little bit surprised. Simone is in Finchley. Simone, question or answer? Question. Yes, hello. Hello. If I post two letters, one with the first class and one with a second class stamp, what happens to the one with the second class stamp? Does it just sit in a pile for a couple of days or. Because I have posted letters before and the second class has got there at the same time as the first, so it's kind of like, well, should I put a second class stamp on every letter? I like that question. Rings a vague bell, actually. I'm just trying to think if I can remember the answer to it, but I think. I think you might be right. You know, Simone, I think they do just sort of not sit in a pile, necessarily, but they're just. It's about priorities, isn't it? So you do, at the beginning of the shift, you do all the first class stuff and at the end of the shift, you get around to the second class stuff. But I am making it up as I go along, as you can probably tell. So I'll leave it on the board and shut up now, shall I? Okay, that would be good. I'd like to know the answer, though. Yes, I know. Well, you're not going to get it from me, but that's generally a mystery. I work someone. There'll be someone listening who works in the sorting office who can give us a completely definitive answer. If there isn't, I'll give you the money myself. If you are that person in that sorting office, then as I bid farewell to Simonet, freeze up a phone line for you. Grab it by dialing zero 345-606-0973 marks at Liverpool Street. Mark, question or answer? Hello, James. I used to be a postman, so I could probably answer that one. I'm answering the one about the scottish football. Good man. The answer is, it's all down to television. Half time. Used to be ten minutes across the board for every game. But once television got involved and started showing live matches, they introduced 15 minutes half time. Because games in Scotland in the lower three divisions are never on television. They still have ten minutes, as do non league games in the UK. Is that really the reason? Yeah. My understanding of it. Qualifications? I go to. Well, I'm a football referee. Well, that'll do. I also go to non league. I go to non league games every weekend. Who do you follow? Watch my son. It depends who my son's playing for. Oh, okay. He moves from club to club. But what level of non league? Panorama? No, not as high as that. He played in Vanorama south. Okay. The highest he's ever played. Well, I think my team's going to be in Vanorama. My team's going to be in Vanorama north next season, so I think they probably are. I'm trying to acclimatize. I've seen Kidderminster Harriers in the FA cup play at my local team. Oh, yeah? How much did you beat us by? No, you won two nil. Get in. And do you know what else I discovered today? Probably paints me out as a plastic fan. Turns out the Leicester captain turned out for us for five games in 2002 on loan from Nottingham Forest. Yeah. So now the secret of Leicester's success has finally been found this season. A bit of the old kid of Mister Harrier's magic there, Marks. Yeah, well, a lot of those players from lower league football, they've moved around, haven't they? You're right. Vardy was playing non league football three years ago. It's an incredible tale. Yeah, I've just got my fingers crossed for them. Same here, actually. I think every neutral in the world has got their fingers crossed for Leicester. You, meanwhile, have already got your reward today, Mark. Thank you very much, Billy. Thank you very much. Beautifully done. Shorter half time. I like one other answer, Mark. Before you go, someone emailed to say, because the stadia are much smaller in Scotland, the distance from the dressing room to the pitch is smaller. So that's. I can't quite see that playing a part in it. It's not as. Not as convincing as your answer anyway. 1223 is the time. Eamon is in Marylebone. Eamon. Question or answer? Question, James. Carry on, Peter. Bread. You know how you can peel it open? It's kind of effectively really two layers with a perfect seal. I know when they make it, it starts out as a flat piece of dough, just like a pizza base. So how does it end up the way that it does? How does it know that it is a pita bread and it should be two layers. It's not baked. If it was baked, it wouldn't be two layers. But because it's cooked on a hot surface and turned over, that's how you get the two layers hardening. And how is that different? The soft layer in the middle of a pizza. Well, when's the last time you cooked a pizza on both sides? Not too sports. I know. That would be silly. Yeah, exactly. So if you did cook pizza dough on a hot surface, on a flat hot surface, and then just the dough and then turned it over, you'd have something akin to a pocket. It would be a lot more like pizza. Wow. You're amazing, James. I agree. Hang on. Where's the applause? That makes sense. Thank you. There you go. It must be true. That's it. Do you know why? Because at risk of establishing my middle class cliche status even more effectively than I've previously done, made pitta bread at home with the girls because it's quite easy and they eat it. So it's quite fun to do. So that must be why. That is how you do it. Whereas bread you bake in the oven. Thank you. Eamon 1224 is the time. Professor Martin Smith is here. Professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. What are you here for, professor? A question or an answer? It's an answer, James. Please carry on. It's the how do you project black light? Yes. And the answer is, you can't because there's no such thing as black light. So what's going on? On the projections that the questioner was asking about, if the areas around are bright, the eye will adjust its contrast so that. Well, not its contrast, the aperture of the iris, so that everything else looks darker. And his concerns about the notion of the light bleeding, you'd expect. I understand exactly what the questioner meant by that. Is it if I did a projection onto a building in the dark of something red, black, white, I'd expect the white and the red to leak into the black bit. But the demarcations are really clear when you see it on the side of buildings or landmarks. Well, that's slightly different. But the reason for that is if you've got a very good lens and a very good reflector and as approximate as you can to a point source of light, you can get a very, very sharp cutoff. Yeah, of course you can. That makes perfect sense because that's why you have adjustable focus on projectors. Well, you've got some very expensive lenses and very expensive reflectors and bulbs, but we've all seen that when we put, when we're projecting something onto a wall, you twiddle the knob and it goes from blurry to crystal clear, doesn't it? Then that's because you've got the lens in slightly the wrong place. Exactly. In relation to the screen and to the bulb. So quality of lens, quality of lens and location of lens deliver clear demarcation of projection. Precisely. So, round of applause for the professor. Ably assisted by me. Well, not assisted, clarified. Turned into layman's turn. I was like Robin the boy wonder to the professor's Batman. Kaz is in Isleworth. Kaz, question or answer? Answer. Go on then. Well, I was going to say the same thing as the gentleman before. You can't project, you can't just come on after a professor has won a round of applause and say the same thing. Go on. And we should have gone to you first. The professor's got applause coming out of his briefcase. Exactly. He took it from me. But yeah, from a distance. From a distance. If you go up close, you won't see the same effect. If from a distance you will see the black. If you look, if you look at the Wembley Stadium when that was lit up. Yeah. If you have a look at that very carefully, they've got a close up of it and you really can't see the black in it. And you can see, you can see the red and the yellow mixing in and the ambient. Right. But if you, if you look for medicine, it does work, like it qualifications. I'm an engineer. What's all refrigeration engineering? It's not got a lot to do with projections, has it? And I do, I do a bit of lighting as well. Well, that's why I'd have gone with the lighting first, before the refrigeration, when it's coming. Give Kaz a round of applause for being a good egg. Cheers, mate. Mohammed, Sid Skipton. Hello, mate. Question or answer? Uh, answer. I know what you're going to try and answer. You are so cocky. And that is the pot calling the kettle black, my friend. Come on then. Come on. Just written a paper on this, James. Just written a paper. I haven't got a mark bag for it though, so. Yeah, but it's good, it's good. The tipping point of capitalism, Mohammed's going to have a crack at now. Well, what point does capitalism break? Okay, so now is the answer. But so what we have is something called secular stagnation, where there's no organic growth. So all of the growth that we see is just speculative asset prices going up. Now, what that lady was asking, which when will the rich stop making money? Some of the rich have already stopped making money and some haven't. So the people who are really making money out of this situation are the investment banks, because they own all the credit lines. So when no one, when wages don't go up, we use credit. And then what happens is they make money off the credit because that's instruments off the back of it. And then they sell those instruments to other people and that's where they make their money. And if there's no growth in actual companies, then all these companies, to grow, they have to buy other companies. Mergers and acquisitions. So what happens is that the investment banks make money off that through advisory. However, your pension funds, your insurance, the things called buy side of finance. And the people who are investing, they don't make any money. In fact, they're losing money at the moment. And what you have is you have these huge pension funds which are trying to get the government to start stimulating the economy through spending more, whereas the investment banks are saying no because they make a lot of money off this situation now. So it's some rich make, some rich will continue to make money and money until we get another credit crunch, whereas other ones are already losing money now. And I'll add one last little bit in terms of the inequality. If the top 20%, if their income goes up by 1%, GDP goes down by 0.1.6%, whereas the other 80%, if their income goes up, GDP goes up. Yeah. I mean, to be honest, you lost me about six or 7 seconds ago, but that's a reflection of me, not you. Have you. I mean, you have. Okay, at what point does it become unsustainable? It'll just be so the next crash, and then we'll have another credit crunch and then they can restart it again. Unless policies change. So it never goes off the cliff forever, then it never actually breaks. No, no, no. The only thing is, is that the capitalism is it changes all the time and its actual functionality changes. So in ten years, it won't look exactly the same as it does now, and it will kind of, I don't know, like, for example, your ubers, your Airbnb is a new platform economy that's changing the nature of our economies. Actually, mohammed, qualifications, third final year economist and just wrote a paper on this. When are your finals? Summer. Just. It's practically April. Do you mean summer around the corner? When are your finals, ma'am? They haven't released. Look, I've got a three week break now and I'm making all the use of it. I'm keeping all way out of my mind, really. You're not. You're not revising and swatting up? Not yet. Not yet. So no jokes. I'm listening to Herbert's on the radio instead of studying for my degree. Mate. Good luck with you because I don't know if we'll talk before the finals come round. You can't blame me if you fail all your exams. It's 1231. Helena Noakes is here with the headlines. The lawyer for Per. After twelve is the time you are listening to mystery hour. Last time that we'll spend our mornings and the first hour of the afternoon together for a couple of weeks. I'm off over Easter. Tom Swalbrick, my friend and colleague, will be assuming the position behind this microphone for the duration. But I would just. I mean, a highly unlikely event. You're going to miss me. We've started doing a sort of best of podcast that you can access via iTunes. So if you go over to iTunes and just stick my name or LBC in there, you'll find it was about half an hour long. Is it highlights from the last couple of weeks? Some of the best things we've done. And speaking of highlights, I'm going to tease you with this, it's a bit boastful, but you know, you're used to that by now. How many views on Facebook do you think clips from this program have received since the beginning of 2016? Go and have a guess. How many do you think? So if you go to the LBC Facebook page, not only do you get a fascinating insight into the life of the Internet troll, some of the people on there, the ones that hate me, are brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. Barking mad but brilliant. But you also can get clips of the best bits of your favorite shows on LBC. How many do you think this show has had since the beginning of 2016? How many individual viewers of clips, films from. From the show? I'll tell you if I remember. I'll tell you before I go home. Back to mystery out, though. Helen is in Etchingham. Question or answer? Helen. Hello, Jay. Hello, Helen. Hello. It's actually a question from my little boy who was eight on last Friday. We were doing some gardening. We're finally getting out now that the weather's improving and we were coming across lots and lots of worms. He wants to know, how do worms get through the earth? Because you can have some really compacted hard ground and they just appear to disappear. And he wants to know if they munch their way through. He can't really think they're strong enough to wiggle their way through. Why not? Why can't they be strong enough to where his finger is? What? Some wonderful sound effects coming out of the radio today, aren't there? I guess, but then equally, I don't know, you can have the surface of the. Which has really been packed, you know, hard, really hard surface, and you put a worm on it and they're just gone, but you don't even see Earth come out in its place. So he wants to know how it works, how the worms. How do worms do their thing? Really? Yeah, I like. How do they dig? How do worms dig? Yes. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you know the answer to that. That's lovely. Thank you, Helen. 1237 is the time Lewis is in suburban. Lewis. Question or answer? I've got an answer, James. I'm, of course, riots here. You're going to cause riots. You have got answer to that. You know, the first class, second class. Pose question. Go on, then. There's no difference, James. There's just genuinely no difference. Shut the front door. I know. I told you, I'm the cause. Right, James, I did warn you, but everybody knows that they've got. All it is, is an internal sort of, like, priority system. So basically, they could take all their first class posts on one day and, you know, if it's not been there for a few days, they can decide to just leave the second class post. If, you know, if it's too busy. I should probably officially say it. Imagine it would be. But, yeah, they can just leave that. It's just a priority system inside the post office, assorting officers. And if it's quiet. Yeah. Oh, no, if it's quiet, they might as well take the second class post with them. If they've got, like, enough space in their bags and stuff, they'll just take the second class with them at the same time as the first class. Qualifications. I work with someone that used to work in a sorting office, and obviously in the spirit of office small talk, I once went, so what's the difference between first class and second class? I'm going to give you a round of applause because you're convincing and your qualifications are sound, but if someone else rings in who has actually worked in a sorting office rather than his mates with someone who used to, I will let them on to challenge you. Oh, by all means, James, but you made my day. If you give me a round of applause. Well, steady on. I was going to tease him a bit then. Honestly, it's too late now. You might as well give him all of it. Ruined all my fun. There you go, Lewis. Thank you. Collins in Southend. Colin, question or answer? It's a question, James. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to you. What is the question? My girlfriend lives 200 miles away at the moment. The other night, she called me from her car, from a factory fitted bluetooth system from her mobile phone, so it consequently muted the CD that she was playing. Colin. Colin. Slights. Colin. Colin, how long have you been listening to the program? About 14 years, James. I haven't been here quite that long, but you're very kind. Do you remember the rule that we used to have for people called Colin? Tell me. We didn't used to let them on the program because they were almost always boring. Okay. And I'm just. Shall I enliven this, then, for. I think you should start again with that warning, with that little bit of history in mind. Cool. Thank you, James. I won't tell you what we. What we think of people named James down here. No, it's a family program. She called me from her, from her car, using factory fitted bluetooth system. Right. CD stopped playing as my landline rang. I muted the bluetooth sound bar on my tv, as with. As we were speaking, Justin Bieber that was on her CD came through my sound bar in my lounge. Oh, I know how that happens. Tell me. It's a ghost. That's what we say about James is down here. They're all spooky. So you've got. I'm not having any Jamesism. Colonism is the acceptable face of prejudice. Jamesism is an altogether different kettle of fish. So, to be clear, your girlfriend was listening to Justin Bieber? Yes. She rang you? Yes. From. From the bluetooth connection in her car. Correct. From her iPhone. And then when your landline rang, the music she'd been listening to started coming out of your telly. As our conversation progressed, we spoke for about five minutes. Yeah, I had muted. I muted the sound bar when she rang off you. Colin, who said romance was dead? Eh? She backed me on that one. I've been married 15 years. I just turn it down a notch. But it was Justin Bieber. I thought, my God, where has this come from? So you hadn't unmuted it? It even came through the muted soundbar? Yes. Yeah, I'd muted the soundbar and when I looked at the display, it said, bt enabled. Now, I have a school friend who's been a lifelong comms engineer for BT. And he just came back and said, beggar if I know. Well, I think that might well be the conclusion. I owe you an apology. I thought we were heading towards a question of almost unbelievable dullness, Colin, but I. I did not expect that little soup son of the supernatural to be imported at the last minute. So, of course, lightning the moment with Justin Bieber. Of course, we're always, always cheering and he happens to be a south end United fan. Oh, no, you're just being silly. Justin Bieber is not a south end United fan. He absolutely is. I will tweet you the picture of him in our shirt. Really? Good grief. James, I look forward to an answer and thanks for a great show for all these years. Thank you. That's lovely. 1242 is the time Gary is in Chesham. Question or answer, Gary? It's an answer, James. Come on, then. It's the first and second class post. Yes. Rubbish. What that bloke said. I knew it. Getting back. I want my round of applause back. The thieving git. Go on, Gary. Yeah. Pop it in your pocket. I will. The machines recognize the phosphor on the stems and the second class get moved and they're stored and sorted the following morning. So the first class gets on its way on the evening. If we cleared out all the first class and there was still a few hours left on the shift, would we go and start on the second class? Yes. Well, that's kind of what he was saying. No, he was. He was saying that they discriminate when they're putting the post into their bags, which they don't. A postman or postwoman delivers whatever they're given. The discrimination takes place during the sorting process in the evening. Yeah, so it's prioritized. I mean, he was giving us the impression that they're effectively exactly the same and they're categorically not. And the franking? Not the franking. The sorting machines are doing the work of telling you what to do next. What's your top priority? Your top priority would always be the first class mail. Yeah, you've done it. Question or answer? I beg your pardon? Qualifications? 37 years at Royal Mail. Blimey. Only 37? I'm not sure that's enough to qualify for relevant flaws. 1243 is the time Fiona is in Sid cup. Fiona, question or answer? It's an answer, Jane. Carry on, Fiona. The peas and beans question. What is the difference between pea and bean? There is no difference. They're both from the same family called liggy. Called what? Legumes? Yes, legumes. So. So a pea is a bean and a bean is a pea. Yeah. And they're all seeds. They're all seeds of vegetables. That's what they called legumes. And they're all in pods, are they? That's right. That's the definition of a legume, is a bunch of seeds in a pod. That's right. Or a single seed in a pod. In, like, a broad bean. Yep. Some multiple, some on their own. Yeah. Why do we call peas peas, then? Because we've already got a name for beans. Sorry, that wasn't very funny at all. Was it the pea? You can't call it a bean because that's a bean over there. There's lots of different types of beans. So you could have had a pea bean, but they just called it a pea. And in America, I think what we call a black eyed bean, they would call a black eyed pea, or vice versa. Qualifications, Fiona? I'm a qualified chef. I probably go and it's earned you this. What's your favorite pea recipe, Fiona? I think probably peer mint risotto. Peer mint risotto. Very nice. I'm having a crack at a cauliflower cheese risotto tonight. All right. What do you mean, all right? Not so much with the cauliflower. Roasted cauliflower cheese. Result is one of Lindsey bearum's. She's the best. Best chef in the newspapers by a country mile. Okay, you're not impressed? I'm doing a bit. I'm doing it with a bit of roast hazelnut and mascarpone. That sounds fine, just not with the cauliflower. You're a chef. How can you not like cauliflower? Personal choice. Well, fair enough. Give Fiona another round of applause because I was rude to her and that's not fair. Carry on, Fiona. 1245 is the time. It's 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is drawing to a close. But we still need some answers to some questions. I'll remind you of what they are in just a moment. First, though, if you run a small to medium sized business and you've been thinking of growing internationally, but assumed that going global is just for the big companies, then think again, because this week on LBC, we're teaming up with exporting is great to explore exporting opportunities for uk businesses, anything from sending iced tea to Costa Rica or cocktail dresses to Switzerland. British expertise and products are in demand overseas, so whatever your business, you can take advantage. Listen, all this week for the LBC special report on exporting and to find out how you can grow your business. Search exporting is great. Questions that still need answers. How do worms work? I love that question. How do worms work? How does the worm wiggle in such a way that allows it to breach the crust of very hard soil and do his wormy business as he makes his way through the lower layers? Difference between peas and beans. We've done. Second class stamps. We've done. And Colin's brilliant question about Justin Bieber, which is too complicated for me to repeat, but if you heard it and you understood it, give me a ring and provide us with the answer. What happened was, I'll talk to Lisa first and then I'll remind you Colin's question in the hope of getting an answer in the next eight minutes. Lisa's in Watford. Lisa, question or answer? Hello. It's a question, please. If I can fit one in, I'd like to know where new words come from. I've got a teenage daughter, yes, and she'll say something like, someone's lang or peng. I've never heard. Whoa. You can't say that on the radio. Lisa, are you trying to get me fired? Oh, really? I can't believe you just said that on the radio. I'm in so much trouble now. No, no, I'm not, really. Carry on. Oh, no, stop it. I had to look them up in the urban dictionary. Yes. And the other day my son said, oh, that's peak. And I thought, that mean, that's really good, because peak is the top of something. Yeah, I did mean the best of something. It meant the worst of it. It meant something was really bad, as in sick meaning good. Sick meaning. Yes. So. So peak means bad and sick means good. Peak. Well, what do you mean? Where do they come from? Do you mean. I could say, oh, oh, his hair's flingy, meaning it's messy. Like. Does that mean an official word? Because I've said flingy? Not yet, no, because it's just you. But it would assume a position eventually where it was quite widespread, and then the people that assemble dictionaries would. Would have a meeting on whether or not to add it to the list. They announce new words every year, but somebody somewhere who makes it official, this urban dictionary? Well, the urban dictionary is not official. The urban dictionary is not official. That's just like a sort of online process, a collection of words like the ones you've heard your children use, and then someone's sort of writing them down and explain. Explaining what the definition is. But it doesn't join. I mean, it's lexicographers and dictionary compilers who ultimately determine what words are formally in existence and what words are still confined to informal slang. It's quite an arbitrary process, but I can't quite work out whether you're asking who makes a decision on when a word becomes formally real or who invents new words. They're two different questions. I can't ask if it can be formally real. If you just said the, the urban dictionary isn't. I don't know. The urban dictionary isn't. A word in the urban dictionary would dream of being promoted into a proper dictionary. That's what they do. They sit around all these pengs and nangs and whatever else and peaks, and they all dream of one day getting promoted into the proper dictionary. But slingy, let me just check that, actually, because otherwise, because I'm going away for a couple of weeks, and when I come back, I want slingy to be slingy. Hair. Slingy's not there. Slingy's not a word. So when I get back from my holidays on April 11, I want slingy to be in common parlance. Okay? That's what, that's how it works. So you say slingy. Well, what does it mean? You're just going for slingy, meaning messy. It should be something a bit better than slingy. Oh, I don't know. It's the first word that came to my head. I love it. It's a great word. What about it? It's a cross between messy and sticky. So it's slingy. It's messy and sticky. It's slingy. But how can peak mean not good instead of good? It's just kids. I don't get that. It's kids, innit? Well, someone must have said it. Who said it? Someone said bosting. When I grew up in the black country, somebody once said, boston. Boston is another one, isn't it buff? That's a new word. I don't know. You're the one hanging out with the kids. Lisa. I. I'm still what? I'm still watching pepper pig and horrible histories. Buff is a new word as well. And bay. That's another one, bae. Yeah. What does that mean? I don't know. Should we look it up in urban dictionary? I'm frightened to in the studio now, Sheila Fogarty might think I've been looking up inappropriate material on the office computer. I shall find out for you. I'm going to give you a round of applause anyway, because you're lovely. Oh, thank you. No, thank you. I shouldn't try. I shouldn't have yanked your chain in that way, claiming that you'd uttered some foul profanity that was going to get me censured by Ofcom again. Lisa is in Gravesend. Lisa, question or answer? Yeah. Oh, it's not. Carry on, Lisa. Right, ok. I'm so sorry. That lady. That's just on. I completely understand how confused she is because my daughter's started secondary school in September. I've got all this to look forward to. I'm just having to look up on Google, because I just don't understand what she's going on about. No, that's not what you rang in, though. What did you ring in about? No, it's not about the worms, for the little boy that wanted to know. Oh, yes, right. So worms have actually got bristles. Well, hairs, on the end of their bodies. So what they do is when they go in the earth, it grips the dirt up and it sort of passes it under its head. But how do they. How do they get in the first bit, the bit that's really hard. Too hard to get a finger through. How does a worm get through the top of it? Well, they burrow through. Yeah, but don't they eat the soil and then excrete it? What they normally do is they eat, like, dead plant stuff or anything that's around. They get through that way. I haven't heard them eating dirt. What are your qualifications? I've spent ten years rescuing worms and stag beetles. I can't. I'm not going to be able to give you a round of applause. I feel terrible about this. I can't give you a round of applause, but you've just told me they wiggle. I said, how do worms get into the ground? You said they wiggle, James. Yeah. Obviously we're looking for more than a wiggle, aren't we? If we were only looking for a wiggle, I wouldn't have let the question on the board in the first place. We're looking for something a little bit more biologically sophisticated, Lisa. That's what they have to do at first. But it must be more to it than wiggling. It can't just be wiggling. There's more after the wiggling? Yes, I think there's excreting and consuming. Well, I just said they. They do eat the dead plant stuff. I'm not going to send you away with nothing. All right. I'm going to tell you what Bay stands for. Did you know what Bay stands for? No, but before anyone else. Right, okay. But that's all I'm giving you. I'm really sorry. I'm really sorry. I feel terrible now. Next time. Next time, remind me and I'll give. You know, I'll set the bar very low. But I'm not having that, because wiggling was kind of obvious. The reason why I got distracted. I don't know if you noticed at the beginning. I just. There's some breaking news there that Johann Cruyff, I mean, one of the finest footballers ever, has passed away. They've just revealed at the age of 68. More on this, no doubt. In the course of the afternoon on LBC, he made his name as a forward with Ajax and Barcelona, won the Ballon Dor three times the Lionel Messi of his age, really. And he thought he was winning. A really poignant postscript here. He thought he was 20 up if it had been a football match against his battle with lung cancer. And he said, I'm sure I will end up winning. It's my sad duty to tell you that he didn't. Cruyff has died of cancer at the age of 60. 812. 57 is the time Sean is in Surbiton. Question or answer, Sean? Well, it's regarding the worms, James, have you heard of worm casts? Worm what? Worm casts c a s t. Yes. Well, that's happens. They. They don't. What happens if they can't go through hard soil, but if you on your lawn, lay a piece of plastic, two foot whatever, a kid's basic, and take it up after a few days and there'll be loads of worms underneath, they've come up the soft soil. So what happens to worms as they travel through the soil? As you say, they excrete it and we rely on worms. They aeriate the soil, otherwise the soil would be useless. They. They're our friends, our natural friends. They are our friends. It's what happens if you see flagstones or anything, and there's little bits of clay in between, you'll see what looks like dead worms. And they're worm casts. They're worm casts, which is passed through the body, so they eat it and excrete it, and that's how they break the surface. Sometimes whatever nutrients are in soil keeps them alive. This was a question for a ten year old boy. He's going to lie. Or a ten year old girl. They're going to love that answer. I mean, in a nutshell, you're far too sophisticated to say this. How do they get through the soil? They eat it and they poo it out. Exactly. And they can't go to heart soil, as I said. But if you lay something on your lawn, pick it up a few days later, you must have seen it where the kids have left something and underneath the worms are stuck to the piece of plastic or something. Sean, you sound like a man I've got. Give him his round of applause quickly. You sound like a man who's very familiar with modern technology. How many views do you think clips of this show have had on Facebook since the beginning of this year? Sean, listening to a man who has the wrong side of age 80, just take a guess. All this white man's magic. I don't even know the landline. I refuse to join the new society. Oh well, Sean, I'll see you when I get back from holidays on April 11. The answer is 5 million. Believe it or not, since the beginning of this year, 5 million views of clips from this program on the LBC Facebook page. But don't let that draw you there. Go and see the bile and hatred that small number of people post there daily about me and my friends and colleagues. Speaking of my friends and colleagues, no one's ever posted bylaw hatred about Sheila Fogarty, who is here to ease you into the rest of this afternoon. Thank you very much, James. From three I want to talk about marriage. People in formalized relationships, like marriage or civil partnerships, are, we are told, happier than those who are not. Is this a case of smug marriage or is there something in it? From two I want to talk about grief and consolation. The woman who lost her husband, children, mother and sister in the drowning off Donegal has met the man who saved her four month old baby. A priest who was present at the meeting has described it, saying he would never again see. Such intensity of feeling grief is something none of us escape, though not on that scale, thankfully. How did you survive it?