Why can we hold our pee until wee see the toilet?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is a time. Mystery hour is upon us. I didn't really. I was too busy getting all emotional before the. Before the news. I forgot to do what they call a churn on the old mystery hour. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that is not ordinarily available anywhere else. On your radio dial. You have a question, it needs an answer. You know that there is an answer. You possibly could find the answer if you. If you sort of got out your reference books or went online, but you're more interested in human interaction, illumination, education, elucidation. So you ring in, you ask a question, someone else hears it, they know the answer. No one's allowed to look anything up at all, and they ring in with the answer. And if we're convinced by their answer and they prove their qualifications, they get a mystery. A round of applause. On very, very, very rare occasions, somebody will ring in who is so supremely qualified to answer the question that they're answering. They will receive what is known in the trade as a ray Liotta. And if you don't know what that is, well, fingers crossed, you find out soon. It basically boils down to who, why, what, where, when, whence, whither, wherefore, the occasional whence, why do we do that? What's the origin of that? Where does that come from? Why do we do this? All of these questions lend themselves to mystery out. What's the origin of that? What's the reason for that? The practice behind that? And that's pretty much it. There are two rules. One you can observe, one you can't really, because it's very much in the ear of the beholder. Repetition is to be avoided. You won't get on if we've answered your question relatively recently. Actually, I guess we won't get on if we've asked your question relatively recently, but you don't know that. You can check the mystery hour archive over at lBC dot co dot UK if you want. And dullness. We're very opposed to dullness on the program, and that means that if you ring in with a question that we consider to be dull, you'll be very politely invited to move along. Please don't take out the anger that you feel upon the poor professionals manning the switchboards this hour. It is very much a subjective decision and the decision of the management is final, so don't be dull. Which means kind of avoid motoring questions for example and don't be repetitious. Which means if it's really, really obvious, your question. If it's something that is almost a byword for mysteries, the chances are that over the last few years we've dealt with it. That didn't sound too ungrateful, did it? To stentorian? I hope not. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Is there anything else? We need to put anything else out there? We got it. I'll say the phone number when I've got phone lines free. Other than that, just crack on. Jenny is in Ipswich. Jenny, what would you like to say? I think it's Johnny, not Jenny. I think you're right. There's a mystery solved. Johnny is in Ipswich. Johnny, question or answer the question, please, James. Go on. Why does the academic year start in September as opposed to January? Or. Pretty much. That's a great question, isn't it? I've never thought of that before because. I mean, you could say, well, because of the length of the summer holidays I think it could be something to do with possibly giving poor people a chance to get on holiday when they couldn't afford it the length of the summer holidays. But even then it would just be factory fortnight back in the day, wouldn't it? A big six. I'm just thinking back to Terry's call earlier I don't know if you heard it. Him and his family used to decamp to Cambridgeshire for the whole of the summer months to fruit pick so it was holiday and. And earning potential and if you've had a massive gap it makes sense to start at the end of the massive gap rather than after Christmas being the beginning when you've just had two weeks off. But I don't know. Someone will, I hope. I love that. Why do you want to know? I just been wondering because there's not enough traffic, not too much traffic about someone who was at this time. That's it? Yeah. Why does the school year start? We might be knocking at the door of the answer but we're certainly not over the line. Johnny. Thank you. That's a nice example of the kind of question we deal with but it can be as daft or as detailed as you want there really are, apart from dullness and repetition, no rules or regulations. Seven minutes after twelve is the time zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need Charlie is in Reigate Charlie, question or answer? Hello, I've got a question. Carry on, Charlie. Charlie's partner, Jade. So my question is, if you eat cheese before bed. Do you really get nightmares or is it just a myth? Not necessarily nightmares. They won't necessarily be frightening dreams. But I'm not going to be able to prove this because I can't remember the scientific explanation. But there's something in cheese. Actually, I should just shut up. I could be talking nonsense. Okay, then. Yes. Yes is the answer. Cheese does make you have more vivid dreams, but I can't remember why. So you're not. You're not going to give me a round of applause? Oh, sorry about that. That's all right. No, I love it. Does cheese. What does cheese do to your dreams? That's the quote. Does. Does. Yeah, that's a mystery. Zero. 345-606-0973 and why does the school year start in September? It's all there. Martin is in Brackley. Martin, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. So, it's my birthday today. Happy birthday. We had a bit of a birthday thing last night, and obviously I got sung happy birthday as the cake was being brought out and tuning into your show today, it made me think there's this urban myth that Walt Disney or the. Disney owned the rights to the song and that you can't sing it or use it properly. You know? I haven't heard that before. I haven't heard that before. It's not. It's not that. Yeah, go on. What's the mystery? Well, I suppose the question is, is it true? Do they own the rights to it? And do you just call it a myth? If you want to do it, you just called it a myth, man. I'm not going to be rude. It's your birthday, but you can't ring in and say, there's this myth I've heard. Is it true? It's. Well, I've always. It's always been told to me and other people, either it's a myth or it's something that might be true. It can't be both. Well, that's the question. Is it true? But you called it a myth. Well. Well, you know what? What do you want me to say? We can't call it a myth and then say, is it true? But that's. That's. That's what we work out. Surely myths are myths until they're a true or not. No. Really? No. Okay. Is it true that Disney owned the rights to happy birthday? Answer. No. Right. Okay. Oh, hang on. We're not gonna. I didn't get a round of applause. There's. Something's gone wrong. I'll try that again, Disney does not own the rights to. Happy birthday. Oh. Oh. Oh, blimey. I owe you an apology, Martin. Well, no, I don't, because if it is true, then it's not a myth. So you definitely misspoke in the first place. Well, I apologize for that. There you go. That's all you had to do. Doesn't mean I'm right. We shall see. All right, then. Someone can ring in with an answer on that. Are you doing anything nice for your birthday, Martin? I'm on my way to the dentist to have my first checkup in many, many, many years, so. No, no. What time's your appointment? 230. Oh, lovely. Thank you and good night. Grant. Sir Heathrow. Grant. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, mate. Right, so whenever I read this or listen to it on the telly, regarding demolition of buildings. Yeah. They always refer to it when the building has been demolished has just been raised to the ground. Yeah. And it always puzzles me as to what. Because obviously raising is moving out. Yeah. That means I'm being very pedantic with my questioners this hour. That means that you were not telling me the truth when you said, whenever I read it. Well, no, because if there's an article in the newspaper, you know, some old gas towers or something. Yeah. They was raised to the ground. Yeah, but it would be spelled R A Z E D, which kind of answers your question for you. Raise. Why would it spell like that? Well, because it's not the same as rays, as in rising. That's why I said. You clearly haven't read it. Because if you'd read it, you'd know it wasn't the same word. So think of rays as in removal. Like a razor or an eraser. All right? You know, so they're raising the building to the ground. Yeah, but razor spell, eraser, se. Yeah, but razor is spelled ra zo r. It is two different words. You've got raise, as in, you lift me up, and I've got raise, as in I just raise it off. My beard is actually spelled that way? Yes. Raz ed. No, it's not spelled raisin. Well, as in raising a building to the ground. Yes. Okay, then I can't help you, Grant. Right. Sorry, mate. So, good. I mean, you're just wrong. But I got. There's no sort of. I mean, you've gone all in now on being wrong, so I don't know what to do. Okay, fair enough. All right. Cheers. Cheers. Peace in. Nothing else. Pete, question or answer? It's a question, mate. Carry on Pete. Right. I'm wondering why animals like a lion or a silverback or something don't get sexually transmitted diseases. What if they have, like, a harem? What on earth are you planning, Peter? Don't worry, I'm not going to. I beat. I'm very glad to hear it. How do you know they don't get sexually transmitted diseases? Because I'm sure their offspring would have suffered or they'd suffer. There's a presumption at the heart of your question that I'm not comfortable with. I've got to be honest. Rabbits, for example. Is myxomatosis sexually transmitted? Stranger things have happened. So you want to know why? I mean, the premise of your question is that animals do get sexually transmitted diseases. Don't get. Don't. Don't get sexually transmitted diseases. Yeah, I'm kind of thinking that, you know, if a man was to have 20 partners. Yeah, yeah. I don't. Why? Why? I mean, look, no offense, Pete, but why are you interested in this, mate? Just because I saw. I saw a David Attenborough program recently and I see this. I saw a David Attenborough program recently and I didn't think to myself, I wonder if penguins get syphilis. What the hell is wrong with you, man? Nothing's wrong with it, mate. Well, so you're watching David Attenborough and you find yourself think, I wonder if they ever get, you know, the clap, that kind of deal. Yeah, this big silverback. Stop talking about silver back gorillas like this. You sound. You sound like the liar farage talking about Donald Trump. It's not. It's worrying. So, yeah. Do gorillas get sexually tricked? I don't know. We'll see. Okay. Warren is in Northwood. Warren, question or answer? Hello? James, mate. This is a question for you. Hello. It's been a while, Warren. How are you keeping? Yeah, we're doing well. It's all good. It's all good. It has been a while. I meant to phone you many times on this question and I've just heard that you've got a million people listening to you. 905,000. Let's not jump the gun. Pedantic. It's counting. Anyway, thank you, you're very sweet. That's right. Not as sweet as you. So I've heard. Can I ask this question? Right, so the question is, you know when you want to go to the loo? Yes. This has got nothing to do with sexual transmitted diseases or gorillas. You can hold it almost all day, you can be busy, you could be at work. You need to go to the loo. I need to go to the loo. And you keep saying, I need to go to the loo. And lunch comes and goes and the afternoon comes and goes and you still haven't been to the loo, but the moment you decide to go and your eyes focus on that toilet, you can't hold it any longer. Yeah. I mean, because I've been like. I've been in the car, right, driving home and I'm like, I want to go to the loo. But it's okay, it's not too bad. I want to go to the loo. Getting the door and you starting to edge to go to loo, it's almost uncontrollable. And then when you get in the bathroom, you actually see the toilet. It's like, I've got to get my trousers off. What. What's happened to my program today? It's mystery, I suppose. We like relief. It's all gone a bit adult. Well, I think of juicing you what I meant because he giggled. I do know what you mean. The front. The front. He's always giggling. The front door. For me, I lose control at the front. I can hold it in all the way home and do. Sometimes if I'm really desperate, I'll do the funny walk. You know, I'll sort of be almost walking like Marilyn Monroe, you know, when she put one feet exactly in front of the other. So I get all the way to the front door, get the keys out and that. That's when. That's when problems might occur. That's right. Well, it's just subconscious relaxation, isn't it? It's like your brain is sent a message, oh, you're nearly there now. And then. Oh, my God, I've wet my pants. Yeah. I'm not going to split hairs. Front door or toilet door. Yeah, but as soon as your mind knows it's imminent. That's it. You've just answered your own question. Psychology in it? No, it's. What is it? Psychology? Is it really? Isn't that geezer Brighton gonna call you up in a minute. Well, geezer in Brighton, you mean Professor Howe? The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, Warren, thank you very much. I shall put it on the board. Why? Why does the bladder betrayers at the end of a long and difficult journey as a bladder got eyes? That's a bladder got eyes. Yeah. It's 1216, you're listening. This is LBC Mystery Hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 God, it's only 90 minutes after twelve. We've got so many questions on the board already. Let's have a quick recap. Why does the school year commence in September? Copyright and happy birthday. The question was about Disney, but you can broaden it out if you want. In your answer, does Disney own. Does anyone own the copyright to happy birthday? What effect does cheese have on your dreams? Zero 345-606-0973 Pete in Nottingham wants to know whether or not animals catch STD's. Don't ask me why. All right. He went a bit coy and started talking very lyrically about silverback gorillas. Strange. But anyway, that's what Pete wants to know. And we also want to know, Warren wants to know why your ability to control your bladder completely disappears at the end of the journey in which you've been controlling your bladder. So whether you get to the front door or the lavatory, suddenly the physical ability to keep a grip upon your own bladder disappears when you're confronted with journey's end. Why? 20 minutes after twelve is the time. And I was completely right about raised to the ground, slightly uncomfortable exchange with Grant, who just sort of told me I was wrong about how a word is spelled. I wasn't. I was right and the answer was right. So I'm claiming my round of applause. Absolutely pathetic. Honestly. When are you going to grow up? Alan is imperfectly. Alan. Question or answer? Hello, Jones question, please. Come on, then, Alan. I've puzzled this many, many years and no one can give me an answer. And I reckon you can do it in the next 20 seconds. Right, well, days and weeks of year, right? Yeah. 365 days in a year. Yeah. There's 52 weeks in every year. Seven days in every week. That comes out to 364. Yeah. Come from. I don't know, mate. Ah, there you go. I. Calm down. I don't know everything that's my wife does. Is this a riddle or is it a proper mystery? No, I just don't know what it is. Something heard many years ago and it's a fact of 365 days near seven days a week, 52 weeks a year. Yeah, but they're different. They're different measures. 52 weeks in a year is. Is not true, is it? In a calendar year? It's the nearest. They've. No, because. No, they've rounded it up to the nearest number, because what you would need to do is calculate is get your twelve times 28, 30 and 31 for your month. That's how you'd count the actual days. So a week? What? You sure are. Yeah. Stop laughing at me, Alan. It's discombobulating me. Yes. At the end of the year, it doesn't end on a Sunday. It doesn't end on the same day every year. So you've got your 365 days, which you could break down into twelve months of different lengths, but you couldn't break it down into 52 weeks of the same length because it's indivisible as you've proved. So it doesn't. I'm not explaining it very well, but it's not the mystery that you think it is. I'm still a bit gobst, mate. Yeah, all right, I'll leave it on the board. Look, it's maths, mate. It's not. It's not my strongest suit, but it's like you've made a category error. But I can't quite explain very well why, so I'll find someone who can. All right. Nice to speak to you, James. Respect to you, Alan. Thank you very much indeed. 22 minutes after twelve is the time Liam is in Raynham. Liam, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. So I was watching the lorinking with my niece the other night. Did he catch an STD? I did not. Okay, carry on. And she wanted to know because obviously the lion king, he has a pet, a pet bird. He wants to know if she wants to know if any other animal anywhere actually has pets. We take pets. She wants to know if any other animals in general kingdom have pets. Well, no is the sad answer to that. Not in the sense that she means they don't. I mean, you have symbiotic relationships where a sort of host and a. And a guest animal benefit from each other's proclivity or proximity. So you would have those birds on the back of big animals in Africa that eat the ticks? You know, I think they might, but it's not a pet in the sense that they keep another animal around for sort of fun and frolics and comfort. Right. I'm just thinking there's not going to be anything there, is there? No. Well, I'll just let her know. How old is she? She's for. No, lie to her. Tell her that monkeys keep. Keep gerbils. Oh, no, seriously. Tell her that they found some little gerbil cages in the jungle and monkeys keep gerbils because she's forced. Let's just give her some magic to believe in, mate. Okay, I'll do that. Okay. And I'll take. I'll take the round of applause because I am pathetic. Hannah is in Shropshire. That's a big place. Whereabouts in Shropshire are you, Hannah in loggerheads? I shouldn't have asked. Hannah's in Shropshire. Question or answer? Answer to the happy birthday question. Carry on. So, happy Birthday was owned by Warner Chapel Music, officially, up until about a year ago, when a film director took a case against them. She was making a film about the song, a documentary, and she was ordered to pay $1,500 to actually use the song in a documentary. So she decided to take them to court and sue them and to stop them ever charging people again. And the judge ruled that the song should be in the public domain and they. Warner Chapel were ordered to repay $14 million in royalties that they took. Really? Yeah. Qualifications? What are your qualifications? How do you know this? I'm a music teacher and I used to teach in a college that. And we talk about copyright law and things like that, so. And, you know, it was a big question, like, you know, what song. What song is illegal to sing? You know, what can't you sing on? So I made. I made quite a. Quite a wally of myself during that question. So dismissing him as being completely wrong when he wasn't and getting all obsessed with the myth versus truth into play, I just made a bit of a bulk of myself. Well, I mean, Disney didn't own it, I suppose. No, I know that bit wasn't true, but, you know, I should have been a bit more forgiving, I think. I feel bad now. Oh, well, I'm sure he'll forgive you now that he hasn't answered your question. That's a very, very good response. He now has satisfaction, so he can overlook my sort of. Yeah. And you, of course, have earned this. You're very welcome. 26 minutes after twelve is the time. No, Rayleo to that. She's a music teacher. You've got to be like, ring, you've got to be an astronaut or something to get a rally. You've got a question about the moon and BUzz Aldrin rings in. That's never happened, actually. Slightly annoying. Matthew's in Leeds. Matthew, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on. So it's to do with the animal STD's question and whether or not they can get them. Yeah, I know, yeah. So koalas can famously contract chlamydia, so the answer is, yes, they can. Certainly. Is that the only example we're aware? Well, you say famously. I mean, that's a disputable. So the reason I say famously, is because there's a story in the paper a couple of years ago where one Direction went to the Australia's. Yeah. And held koalas and one of them urinated, or a couple of them urinated on the members of the band and they subsequently had to go and get sexual health checks afterwards to check the anti contract with chamillion. And you just read this in the paper? Yeah, absolutely. That's great work. So we don't know about any other animals, but the question was binary, wasn't it? Yes or no, can animals get sexually transmitted disease? I just sensed, no offense to people, koalas, as a mammal, can get sexually transmitted. Transmitted diseases. Other mammals should also be able to contract with similar diseases. Clever lad. I think, because Pete, I don't know about you, he sounded like he was, you know, really only interested in the silverback gorillas. In a sec. In a sexual way. I'd rather stay out of that. Yeah. Koala bass, I'm gonna give you a round of applause. Great work. Thank you very much. Koalas with chlamydia. Excuse me? Bananas in pajamas coming down the stairs. That's koalas with chlamydia. Oh. We ing on members of one direction, which sadly doesn't rhyme. David's in reading. David, question or answer? Hi, James. Hello, David. Hello. Question is, how much nearer the sun would the earth have to be for life not to be viable? It's too hot to live. Yes. Is this your question or are you asking it on behalf of someone else? Mine. Oh, is it? Might be a school holidays one. No, no, no, I like it. So, I mean, how far are you? Consider the difference between the North Pole and the equator. Yeah. There's not that much of a distance, but a significant difference in temperature. Yeah. I mean, there are some parts of the planet that are uninhabitable, pretty much due to heat on. They wouldn't. You wouldn't last long out in the. What's that? American desert. Yeah. So I'd imagine it wouldn't be a thousand miles nearer the sun. Would that be enough? I don't know. I like that. Yeah, that's quite. Yeah. I mean, in a way, it sort of always makes me feel gratifyingly insignificant when you think about stuff like that, because if it is just a massive coincidence that we are just the right amount of distance away from the sun to sustain life, which, of course, it is, in a cosmic sense, it does, actually. It's all getting a bit existential, this. David. I'm just going to leave the question on the board, mate. All right. Perfect. You're perfect. There we go. How far away, how much closer to the sun would the earth have to be before all life became impossible? It's a cheery thought. 034-560-6097 is the number that you need. Can I squeeze in Tom in Oxford? I think I should. Tom's in Oxford. Question or answer, Tom? It's an answer. Carry on. It's about the cheese and whether it's. What effects does cheese have on your dreams? So it seems there's tons and tons of anecdotal evidence that there's a kind of a direct cause. There have been, over the last few years, a number of scientific studies looking in to see if there is a link and why. And all the evidence coming back has been inconclusive at best. So, for instance, they found things like amino acids that are in milk and therefore in cheese, which perhaps have an impact on certain things in the brain. So, for instance, there's one amino acid that is to reduce serotonin levels and is therefore a thing that is used in certain antidepressants. But they've not found any evidence that that would have any impact on dreams. So all the scientific evidence has suggested that there's no kind of direct cause. And the best thing that anyone's been able to come up with is the sense that cheese, because we often have it late at night, end of the meal, at the end of a meal, and it can cause indigestion, because it's obviously heavy and fatty and it might be kind of part of a quite excessive meal, and therefore the indigestion interrupts our sleep. And so that actually, it's nothing to do with cheese, causing us to have more dreams. But, of course, when we're in that kind of threshold space between wake and sleep, that tends to be when we remember our dreams, when we have recollection. So it might be that we're not having a dream. No, I like it. That's a great answer. What are your qualifications? Strangely so, I'm an artist. I'm writing a book at the moment about these paintings I made in a few years after my dad died. Yeah. Where I had these very particularly strange dreams, or certainly had more of them. Oh, wow. And that were all in that threshold space. So I just ended up looking into it. Looking into it. But I suppose it's got you a round of applause. It's got you around the cheese conundrum. Is that what you're going to call your book? I will now call it. Cheese conundrum. I'd buy it. Do you know where it all started, Tom? What? The association between cheese and dreams. I don't. Do you? Yeah, I think I do. While you were talking, it popped into my head. No. Tell me, Ebenezer Scrooge. Ebenezer science. Has it got cheese dreams? I think he. I think. I think he had some cheese before, you know, what's his chops. Came back to visit him is his old business partner and then all the other ghosts of past, present and future Christmases. Brilliant. I put money on it. I'd put about 20 quid on it. I wouldn't put more than that on a crumb. A crumb of cheese. A crumb of cheese. Oh, that brings a bell, actually. There you go. What an erudite exchange this has been. Have a round of applause on me, Thomas. Thank you very much. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three. Twelve. Thirty six is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. These questions still need answers. Why does the school year start in September? We've done quite a lot. Why does your ability to control your bladder disappear at the end of the journey during which you've been controlling your bladder? For me, it's at the front door. For Warren, who asked the question. It's at the. It's at the. You know, the loo door, so to speak. That question about 365 days. I can't get the answer. I'm sorry. It's a good question, but it's not as good as it looks at first glance. There are 52 weeks in a year and seven days in a week. So how come there are 365 days in a year, given that 52 times seven is 364? I know. It's a sort of form of category error. And how much closer to the sun would we need to be in order to render life on this planet impossible? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can answer any of those questions. Or indeed, if you've got a question of your own. Chris is in Chelmsford. Question or answer, Chris. I've got an answer. I'm sorry to do this, James, but I'm stealing a round of applause off of yourself. Well, I. Steady on, pal. Counting your chickens there. What have you got with stewards inquiry? Well, no, no, no. It's clear cut for me. My third correct answer on mystery hour. I'm hanging up my boots after this. All right. The animals pet animals, they do keep pets. One example, probably about eight months ago, just before Christmas time, I can't remember, it was an Attenborough program or similar. Basically, there's monkeys in the jungle, bigger monkeys, predatory monkeys. They normally prey on these much smaller. I can't remember the names of the monkeys. They normally play on much smaller monkeys. Yeah. Now, sometimes when they get these monkeys young, they keep them as a pet and protect them from the rest of the group, eating them and pet them and fuss them. And I've watched it, I thought, fascinated, never seen it before, but they actually crawl around on their backs. They keep them as pets. And when the researchers looked into it, there is solely only one reason to keep it, because they're prey, and that's for pet reasons. They protect them and they treat them like pets. It's monkeys and monkeys, but it's almost a human sized monkey and then a very small. I don't know if you call them macaques or something, but it definitely. No, no, no, it's not. It's the capuchins you're thinking of, isn't it? The capuchin monkeys? Yeah, probably it is. Tiny little things. No? And then they look after the marmosets. The tiny little monkeys are called marmosets. The capuchin monkey looks after the marmoset monkey. Unfortunately, research found a few years ago that the capuchin monkey treats the marmoset monkey exactly as it would an infant capuchin monkey, speaking to it as if it were its own baby. So they're not pets, they're surrogate children. Let's try to put my fire out, then, is it? How cocky were you, pal? Very. But, you know, come on, they're still a pet, isn't it? But no, it's not a pet. It's a surrogate child. I think it's a baby capuchin. Not. Not a pet marmoset. Humans still mistreat pets. What does that got to do with the price of tea in China? Well, everything, kind of. Chris, mate. Digging. Stop digging, digging. Stop digging. Climb out now. Whatever, whatever. Andy's. Andy's in Waterford in the old country. Andy, what would you like to say? James, how are you? I'm grand. What's on your mind? Yes, well, if you get in a plane in London and you fly to, let's say, the States, then the plane goes at a certain speed. It takes a certain length of time, obviously, but if you. When you fly. If a plane flies the other way, because it's flying the opposite direction to the way the earth is rotating. Obviously it gets there faster. So I want to know how much faster does a plane fly clockwise rather than anti clockwise. So two planes set off from Sydney for London. Yeah. It needs to be somewhere. Exactly. Yeah, it needs to be exactly opposite on the, on the globe. I mean, so you're never going to be able to do it because they weren't, they weren't built airports at the two polar. So two planes take off from exactly the same place heading for exactly the same place, which is exactly this equal distance from the starting point. One goes clockwise, the other goes anti clockwise. Which one gets there sooner or how big is the difference? How big is the difference? Effectively? Yeah, I quite like that question. I'm not going to lie to you, Andy. I was preparing to be quite dismissive or disapproving of it because it's one of those ones that makes my teeth itch. Well, once you start thinking about like that sort of thing, but it does at least make sense to me. So I will leave it on the board. It is a good thing. I don't know who will be able to answer it, if anyone, but we shall endeavor to find out. Jim's in Walthamstow. Jim, question or answer? I have an answer for you. Carry on. So it's for the school term, school holidays. Why do they start in September? So back in 1899, the Education act came in and it made school compulsory for all children. There was a big uproar and all these working class families said, you can't take our children away because we need them to re harvest, work on our farms and all that sort of stuff. So the concession was we have a long summer holiday so they can work in the field, work in the farm over the summer. So they've had a long summer holiday and then they started in the September time. That'll do qualifications. I'm a university lecturer and I lecture in education history and education policy and all that stuff. Wow, that's quite. I mean, so, I mean, what's your official title? Lecturer in education studies is my. That's pretty strong. Again, I can't. I can't give you a Rallyota because I didn't. Come on. No, I can't, I can't, I can't for two reasons. Number one, I had a music teacher on earlier and theoretically, you know, that's as unlikely. And also number two, I've got professor hallwaying on the other line. And if I give you a rally out of having an academic relevance to the question that you've answered, I'd probably have to give him 30. I mean, professor does outweigh lecturers. I don't care about rank, mate. They're not on this program. None of that going on here. I just. I just. I just. I'm just not gobsmacked. That's the key. If you said, the reason I know this is because my great great great grandfather was responsible for framing the education act, then you'd have got a Ray Liotta. Do you see what I mean? Okay, yeah, but you still get one of these. I don't want to make it, you know. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. Well played. Professor Hal is in Brighton. Question or answer? Professor Hal, I'd like to talk about a planet and the star and the Goldilocks enigma and my Ray Liotta. You're not going to Rayliota? Why? How far away from the sun would the earth have to. How close to the sun would the earth have to be in order to render life impossible? And what's the Goldilocks zone? Right. The Goldilocks zone is part of the answer. For life to exist on a planet, you have to have water in the liquid state. And that depends on two variables, the size and type of the star and therefore the distance of the planet is from the star. Now, the original caller went on a red herring. The north pole is cold, not because it's further from the sun, but because the rain from the sun hits it at a steep angle whereas at the equator, they hit it directly. So we exist because we are in the Goldilocks zone. It's neither too hot nor too cold. So water exists, a liquid. If we went any closer to the sun, it would then be a gas. We couldn't exist. If it was further from the sun, it would be ice. And again, we couldn't exist because we need water in the liquid state for all the enzymes to work and so forth. So it's all about the water? It's all about the water, yeah. You could calculate, I suppose, given a long time in a computer, distances, but there are so many variables that be very wide. Error for margin. Margin for error, sorry, so you've found out to say there is no answer. You could hypothesize an answer, but there are too many variables. So, yes, I suppose you're right. I can't give you a round of applause for that, really. No, one answer is that. There is no answer. The answer is, there is no answer. Therefore, I've answered the question correctly. Yeah, no, you're right, actually. I stand corrected. Nice work, mate. Jog on. Have you ever been to space? No. 1244 is the time. Katie's in Nottingham. Katie, question or answer? Question, please carry on. I've got shoulder leather hair. Yes. And it doesn't bother me. Right. But every now and again a hair will tickle me and I go to located, pull it and it's actually detached from my head. Right. How does my body know that that hair is now not attached? What hair? Down to my shoulder. Yeah. And that doesn't tickle? No. But occasionally I'll get a hair. Yeah. Where? Where is the hair? On my face? On my shoulder. Right. Anywhere. Yeah. It just irritates me. So I find it and it's actually detached. Ah, yes. Because it's an individual hair, whereas all the other times when the hairs are touching parts of your skin, they're touching your skin en masse. But I'll have hairs that will be touching me individually and they don't. They won't. Your body can distinguish between the single hair that's tickling you. So I couldn't also. Okay. Or look at it like this. I can't tickle you with a brush, but I can tickle you with a single strand plucked from a brush. See? Okay. Do you get it? Yes, that's right, isn't it? I'll take your. Come on. That's right. Think about it. If I got a brush and tried to tickle you with it, like your foot, for example. I don't know, you know, tickling your foot with a brush, it's not going to work. If I pull one little bristle out of the brush and tickle your foot with that, you're going to be giggling away like nobody's business. But I don't understand how my body knows that that hair is now detached. It doesn't know that the hair is now detached, it just knows that you're being tickled. So you reach for the ticklish bit and. And because it's tickling you on its own rather than as part of a whole brush that is a ponytail or your shoulder length hair, you get a different physical reaction. This is genius. Are you sure? I am absolutely certain. This is Occam's razor in action. Let's find out. Whoa. Controversial. No, that wasn't a full round of what happened. I don't understand. Was that a half? Yeah. Oh, excellent. Well, still up for grabs, then, Katie. Excellent. Well, you say that, frankly, I'm disgusted. It's 1246. This is LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call oh. Three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three. Ten minutes to one is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I crack on my mystery. There's a couple of big stories break. Well, not big, but really interesting stories breaking that. We'll probably have time. You'll hear other people discussing this afternoon, or we'll have a look at them tomorrow. Top judges just warned that mental health failings could leave the state with blood on our hands. A remarkable comment from the high court judge, Sir James Murby. It is a disgrace to any country with pretensions to civilization, compassion and, dare one say, a basic human decency. What have I told you for the last few years? The three areas we need to watch in this country. Prisons, which are currently rioting, mental health provision, which a high court judges just described was leading to a government or a state with blood on its hands, and care homes for elderly people. Those are the three things that we should have talked about. And when we're sort of all sitting on a raft in a mad Max style dystopia, decades from now, desperately trying to eke a last bit of water out of an empty drum, our starving children will turn to us and say, why was everyone talking about immigration while the whole country was falling apart? The seams. Anyway, that's a cheerful thought. Francesco's in Greenwich. Francesco, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about the planes. Yeah, yeah. If you travel in the direction where the earth is moving towards you, then the distance will be shorter. How much fly? How much shorter? Well, I don't know. But I'm telling you this, I flew. That was the question. I flew to New York. It takes seven and a half hour. When you come back, it's nearly nine hour. I asked the sewardice and she said, this is because the earth moves. But we. The question was, how much difference would there be? Oh, that. I wouldn't know. Sorry. That's all. I mean, are you sure that. Yeah. Wait there. Stay there a second. Keith's in Clacton. Keith, what do you reckon? No. Load of rubbish. It's a friendly show. It's a family show. No, no, no, I'm not being nasty. If you are exactly the same mileage, say, from London Heathrow, and you're the other side of the earth, it doesn't matter which way around the earth you go, it will be exactly the same distance. Therefore your traveling time, providing with no headwinds or tailwinds, will be exactly the same. So why does it take longer? To fly back from New York than it takes to fly there. Because of the actual. It's the actual route it takes. When you fly back from New York, you'll find that the actual route is south. The plane will go south and then south of the Atlantic and then back up. Whereas when you go, you go over. I don't know what's going on anymore. What are your qualifications? I'm training to be pilot. Private pilot. Okay, Francesco, what are your qualifications? Actual judges. What? Artful Dodger. Awful Dodger. I don't know. I know. I know. You don't know what? That was the reason. Yeah. I'm gonna go with the pilot. Not for sexist reasons at all. Keith could easily have been a female pilot. And the stewardess that you spoke to could easily have been a male steward. But I'm gonna go with the pilot. Think about it. Because the destination would move and so would the starting point. Maybe. I don't know. Don't put through any more like that. Faisal's in grace. Faisal, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why do we laugh in the same language? In the same way? You mean why do we all go, ha ha ha in the same language? Well, it's not a language, is it? Well, I guess, but in the same way, it's not a language, is it? Okay. All right. Here you go. What did I just say? I mean, you laughed, but someone in Japan would laugh in the same way. But it's not a language. It's a laugh. It's a physical. It's like saying, why do we all sort of blink in the same way? Isn't it? Don't think so. No. It's like yawning. It's a fish. It's a physical reflex action. So why do we all yawn in the same language? Would you think that was a silly question? Well, maybe not. Yeah. Give him a round of applause. Being a good sport, it's like yawning, laughing. It's not like nodding your head or shaking, you know, or shaking. That is a decision. That's a learned behavior. But laughter, babies, if babies do it, it's. It's a reflex. So yawning and laughing. Paul is in Sheffield. Paul, question or answer? Good morning, James. Hopefully it's an answer. Carry on. It's about the bladder control, or rather, lack of it. Yes. It's all tied up with autonomic nervous system. Autonomic nervous system. Yeah, go on. And it's relationship to what you call a sacral anterior root stem. Now, that actually controls detrus the muscle in your bladder neck. So it's alert behavior. Babies don't have it at first. What happens is when bladder fills up, it sends a message to your brain that it needs empty. As adults, if we're in an appropriate place and time, we'll go to the bathroom. Reliever cells. Now, what happens is your brain can overrule. That's a cost because there's a razor blood pressure and a razor pulse. So what you find is when you actually find out, you see a visual clue, like a bathroom stall, your brain says, right now, we've had enough messing around. Go and relieve the cells. And that's what you do. Oh, yeah. Qualifications? Along. About a 30 year ago, I had privilege of working with this urologist who actually did implants to spinally injured people to allow them to void when they needed to with use of a transmitter and a receiver. Because you worked as you were a nurse, weren't you? Spinal injuries nurse, yeah. That's fantastic. Do you know, last time you rang in, a lot of people mentioned that you sound exactly like Sean Bean. So I'm going to go on a limb and suggest that you grew up in almost exactly the same part field as him. I certainly do, but we support different teams. Oh, really? So you're a united fan? No, he's a. You're a Wednesday fan. You're a Wednesday fan. Like my mum. All right, you're on. Round of applause for Paul. There you go. Nikita is in Croydon. Nikita. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. How do they grow seedless grape? They're not seedless. I knew he'd give me a stupid question. Someone else has made you ring in with this? Yeah, I stole it off my dog. Why wouldn't he do it himself? Why wouldn't he do it himself? Right. But they're not seedless, they're just really soft seeds. They've been genetically modified not to have a pip in it. So the seed. You can plant a great. A seedless grape and you'd grow another plant that you could call seedless grape. There's a seed in there. It's just really soft and malleable. Okay, thank you. No, you poor thing. I can't believe you fell for that. So I get a round of applause I don't need. Yeah, go on then. Liam's in Camberley. Liam, question or answer? Answer, James. Go on. Right. Days in the year. I asked this question about 20 years ago when I was in school, so you have to bear with. Go on. The days in the year 365. And that is the number of days in which the earth takes to go around the sun. Correct. But if you go through 30 days of September, April, June and November, it gets to 364. Are you sure? Yeah. Okay. That's if you count February 28. Yeah. So you basically are saying actually every year, 364 and a quarter. So every four years, you've caught up that extra year to make 365. But then. But every year is 365. But no, they say it's 365. That's the number of. That's how long. How many days it takes the earth to go around the sun. So it's actually 364 and a quarter. But if we start on January the first, if we start on January 1 and finish on December 31, that's 365 days on elite year. It is. No, every year it is. It's 366 days in elite. Yeah. Or not. No, 364. It was 20 years ago. Making my head hurt. Sheila, what do you think? Have you. Are you keeping up with this 131 and then one with 28? And that's 364. Yeah, I think so. Your question. One question. Good job. The shows. It's a good job we finished, isn't it? Good job. I'm going to give you a round of applause for being a good spot, but whether you're right or wrong, I haven't got a Scooby Doo. You're right. Sheila Fogarty's here to raise the tone. I was more interested in the genetically modified seedless grapes. That's true. I don't know. I hardly ever know the answers. Thank you, James. No, thank you. Now then, from three. A Labor MP who was himself attacked by a moped gang says police are losing control of our streets. But what can we do about it? Holocaust survivors have issued a stark warning that people's willingness to express extreme views and act out their intolerance with violence could lead to Britain becoming the Nazi Germany of tomorrow. Are they right or is this a dangerous exaggeration? Straight back to the news. A big moment in science for sure. Scientists say they have successfully changed the DNA not of seedless grapes, but of embryos, babies, to eradicate the particular disease carrying genes. The embryos in question only lived for five days, though there's no doubt it is a moment. But is it one we might come to regret?