Why don't I salivate when I see a cow, but do when I see a steak?

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC three minutes after twelve. And I know what you're thinking. Every hour, in a sense, has been mystery hour lately. But there's no sign of that curious period in human history coming to an end. So we will confine ourselves to mystery mysteries on this one. The whos, the whys, the whats, the wheres, the whens, the withers, and even the occasional wherefore. Youve probably got a question bubbling away in the back of your brain somewhere that you know must have an answer. But for various reasons thus far, you havent been able to find out what that answer is. Well, nows your chance. Dont be boring and don't be repetitive. I can't control the former, I can keep an eye on the latter. If there's a question that we've dealt with relatively recently and can remember dealing with, we won't do it again. Being dull, however, is your lookout by way of guidance. Two thoughts. If it's to do with motoring, it's almost certainly too dull for inclusion. Almost certainly. And secondly, if you can't really imagine anyone else being interested in the answer, that's often a fairly reliable guide to dullness as well. I don't want to sound ungrateful, obviously so kind of everyone to ring me for whatever reason, but you're probably not going to get on air if it's a boring question. So, anything interesting, anything new and anything goes. Seriously, why do we do this? Where does that come from? Is this true? What's this? What's that? You're not allowed to look anything up. It's a slightly old fashioned exercise, this, in that it is a small blow back against the tyranny of Google and search engines. This is a celebration of education. It's about things we actually know. So if you can answer a question that somebody else asks without looking after anything, without looking up anything, then this gives you just an opportunity to remind ourselves what it's like to actually know stuff, rather than in this age of unenlightenment, to have to kind of look everything up, or even sometimes be shown that something's true and then stick your fingers in your ears and pretend that it isn't. God, mystery hair, even mystery are getting a bit political. 1205. The number you need remains the same. As soon as I got phone line free, I'll remind you of what the number is. We have to sort through quite a few calls in the first ten minutes on a Thursday. So just because you're really struggling to get through now doesn't mean that you'll struggle to get through in ten minutes time or even in five minutes time. I hesitate to use the phrase that Chris and Rosie at the moment are sorting the wheat from the chaff. But I didn't hesitate for long and then I used it. That's what they're doing. They're sorting the wheat from the chaff. And I've got to tell you that for the first five or ten minutes, there's a lot of chaff. I don't understand why the chaff quotient reduces as the hour goes on, but you won't get on. And if you do get on with a boring question, you'll earn my eternal enmity. And nobody wants that. Vanda is in Aylesbury to kick us off this week. Question or answer? Vander. I've got a question. James, carry on. I have a five month old baby girl. Oh, yes. Congratulations. Thank you very much. And she started teasing at four months and she was rolling over at three months. And everyone kept saying to me, girls do things earlier. And eventually, when I questioned someone on it, I said, why do girls do things earlier? They said, oh, you know, when girls are teenagers, they develop two years earlier than boys. Okay, but why? Why is that? What's the reason behind that? Well, I know they hit puberty. On average, they hit puberty earlier than boys do, but I don't know that they did they tease that? Well, we might ask that question. I just want to clarify where the teething. It's just anything that she does, people say, oh, it's because she's a girl and girls do things a lot faster and boys are lazier, so boys will take longer to do things. But I can't understand where the reason. Where does that come from? Why would a girl do things faster than a boy? Yeah, no, I'll take that. There might be a little bit of dispute over whether or not teething fits into the category, but if there is, we'll just chuck it out. We all accept that girls develop earlier than boys do. Girls hit puberty earlier than boys. So in general, don't find me up with an exception. But I don't know why it'd be evolutionary. I hope the answer isn't unsavory, but we'll stick it out there anyway. Vander. Thank you. How are you going on? Is it your first? You're five month old. It is, yeah. Okay, let me just. Hang on, I just, I'm just going to make some. Are you hoping to have more children in the future? Oh, definitely. 2017. January 19, 2017. I'm just going to put this through my new calculator. Yeah, you, if you're lucky, you should get a full night's sleep in January 2023. Oh, fantastic. That's just what I want. No, no, it's great. See, lie at the end of the tunnel. That's what we're here for. Vander. Thank you very much. Eight minutes after twelve. Why do girls develop earlier than boys? Ben is in Newbury. Question or answer? Ben. Question, mate. Come on then. When you're hungry, why is your stomach making noise? Acid. Wow. Yeah, but why acid? Well, the acid that is there to digest your food, that doesn't have anything to digest, but it's still bubbling away, it's having a little pop at some of the mucus that lines the stomach wall. It's just, it's just, it's just, it's just a chemical reaction that food stops. Okay, you gonna buy that? I'll buy that, mate. Give me an acid, Ben, give me an acid. Otherwise I'm standing here dancing. Ah, get in. Round of applause for me. Qualifications? I think it's been on before. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. We still need to know why girls develop earlier. If you, if you weren't listening to popular music between approximately 1987 and 1994, you'll have absolutely no idea. Just happened. But hey, welcome to our world. Oliver is in Chester. Oliver, question or answer the question. James. Carry on, mate. Hi, yeah, I remember hearing in school, my physics teacher, that they knew, scientists knew, that there were more stars in the universe than where grain does stand on earth. I'm just wondering, how did they, how did they calculate that? How did they work that out? Well, they count how many stars there are in a relatively small part of the universe and then multiply it by the scale of the known universe. And the number is so epically immense that there's no earthly way that there could be more grains of sand on a beach than there are stars in the universe. No, but the scale of the universe is unlimited. Exactly. I remember him telling me, right, well, they think there's ten to the power of eleven galaxies, which is. Oh, no, you're not going to. Hang on, hang on, whoa, whoa, I just pulled out a glib answer. You're not going to go peak scholar on me here, are you? I am. Are you, little shyster? I had no idea all right, carry on. And to that, they think there's ten to the power of 22. What have you phoned me up for here? To show off or to sort of try to denigrate some physics teacher you had 100 years ago who told you something that you've now proved isn't true? This isn't what, mister? So I don't accept your answer because I want to know. Nor do I. Now, mate, I was just trying to palm you off with a sort of simple one. Carry on. I had no idea you were so well qualified. They haven't counted 100 billion galaxies, so I just want to put it out there. Maybe it's one for Professor Howell or something. What is the question? Is it true? Because rather than saying, how do scientists know? All right, well, okay, yeah. Sand versus stars. Exactly. You're on the side of the sand. Oh, well, I'm on. I'm on the side of science, James, always. Well played, sir. I am on the side of science. I'm a friend of the facts. Very unfashionable at the moment, Oliver, but you hang in there. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time Trevor is in Rochester. Trevor, question or answer? Hi. Question, please, James. Carry on, Trevor. You're right there, mate. Yeah, frogging me tight. All right, never mind, carry on. Yeah. Can somebody please tell me definitively whether cooking with microwaves actually damages food? There seems to be a polarization. Some people are adamant that you shouldn't do it and other people are adamantly saying it's perfectly fine and I can't find any definitive answer. Maybe some of your people can. My wife is on the. It's not very good for the food school of thought, but I'm not suggesting that that is definitive. Although obviously at home it would be, I suppose supplementary would be why? Yeah, okay, so can we go definitive on whether microwaving food in some way makes it less healthy or less good for you than cooking it in more. I was going to say conventional fashions, but it barely applies anymore. Only for people my age thinking of a microwave as being modern and unconventional. But there you go. I like that question. Why do you like microwaving? But you're worried that you're killing all the goodness. I was just having an argument with my partner earlier this morning. I wanted to do something in the microwave and I got that whole, you know, cross fingers, don't touch that with barge pole. Can we get an answer? Yeah, what's the point? Why have we flipping bought one? That's a conversation we often have. Why did we buy one, then if you. If you're not. If, you know, if we're not going to use it. Yeah. And some stuff's better in the microwave. Some sort of. Sort of ready meals. It tells you best, best microwave rather than cook normally. Twelve after twelve. Let's try and get an answer that one. Microwave. Sand versus stars, girls versus boys. Very combative today, mister. Yeah. Paul's in south. That's a bit fake. It's a big country, South Africa. Can we do a bit better than that? Whereabouts in South Africa are you, Paul? I'm in Durban. Hi, James. Hello, mate. Paul's in Durban. In South Africa. You know, question or answer, Paul? Yes, it is a question, please. Yes. So I'm just very excited. I've got through finally. Yeah, my question is, I was on a flight recently and I'm looking through a magazine and on one page it had restaurant in South Africa, had a lovely juicy steak. And I started salivating. I thought that looked delicious. Yeah. And on the other side there was. I think it was an article on dairy farming or something. And I had a picture of a cow in a field. Yeah. And it just got me thinking. I saw this picture of the cow and I didn't feel anything at all. Probably just as well. Yeah, well. And then I started thinking more and more about it. I've seen seafood that hasn't been cooked and. And that makes you hungry. And I thought, at what point do you actually kind of. What point does meat start doing something to the taste buds so. Well, not meat, but being. Making you hungry. I think you might have put the cart before. You might. You might. And I could be wrong. You might have put the cart before the horse on this one. Horse? Did you just say horse? Mmm. I'm joking. Because all you've described to me is stuff that you're used to seeing on a plate makes your appetite increase and stuff you're not used to seeing on a plate doesn't. Why does that happen? Well, because if you see a cow in a field, it doesn't remind you of a meal you've had. That was delicious. If you see a piece of steak on a plate, it does. That's all it is. It's your memory, isn't it? Well, yeah, I think partly that. But at some point years ago, there must have been a point when you kind of thinking, oh, that looks like a nice juicy cow. But you've never done that, Paul. You've never, ever found yourself salivating in a farmyard. Not unless you've got problems that this program is absolutely not qualified to address. But I've seen fish. Yeah, but you've had a fish on your plate, mate. You've had a fish on your plate, mate, haven't you? It's a memory. It's a sense memory. So it's a bit like, you know, Proust on. Proust writes about Madelines when he gets the smell of a madeline up his nose in Le Temper some. I can't remember the title of the book, but whenever he spells a madeleine, it transports him back to his. To his childhood. There's a certain brand of floor polish which they obviously used at my prep school outside the headmaster's study, because if I get a whiff of that, I get a little friss on a fear that I'm about to get caned again to within an inch of my life and not caned in a good way. And so I think this is just the same. You see a picture of a big, juicy steak and you have a sense memory of the last time you ate a big, juicy steak. Mmm. Delicious. Mmm. You see a picture of a big cow. You've never, ever, ever in your life had an encounter with a cow that has left you feeling satisfied and full of delicious food, have you? So you see a way. How long are we going to stay? How long are we going to. You see a prawn, it looks like it does on your plate, so it makes you feel hungry when you see it in a picture. Even a whole fish. But what about capaccio or nice? You know, you can go to butchers and you see meat that hasn't been cooked. And it's. Even if I've been to turkey and I've seen half a lamb hanging, hanging old sheep. Yeah. Now you didn't find that as appetizing as a nice shot of some lamb chops, did you? But I still. No, I still felt hungry and I thought, I can't wait to tuck into. But you didn't feel as hungry as you would have done if it had been a pitcher of some lamb chops that were cooked and looking all juicy and delicious, medium rare with a little sprinkling of rosemary and maybe some, I don't know if you ever tried the chilli mint sauce that is made by a certain artisan pickle maker whose name escapes me for the moment, that would have your juices flowing even more. So half a lamb. Yeah. All right. Four out of ten on the juice flowing scale. Picture of a plate full of lamb chops, perfectly seasoned and cooked. Nine out of ten on the, on the salivation scale. That's what we call it, the salivation scale. Okay. Just. What my life. I'm late for the travel, mate. I can't believe this. Go on, one more then. Okay, but what about. Are there people that actually kind of see a cow or a sheep and just think, wow, you know, live sheep and think our kids? Really? No. No, not at all. Never? Never. No one? No. In the history of humans, never. Really? Never chicken? No. No. So you can categorically, 100%, say, never pluck chicken. Pluck chicken? Yes. Unplugged chicken. No. It's all about what the memory of you've had on your plate in the past. It's a sense memory that you're having. So I will never, ever go out and suppose there was no butchers, nothing. I know you're about to go to travel, but I was about to go to travel. That's. That ship has sailed, mate. Seriously? Seriously. I'll tell you what, I'm going to put you out of your misery by doing this. God, I'm good. Almost certainly just made a fool of myself that someone is going to delight in pointing out in the rest of this program. But, hey, we are where we are. Paul. Mind how you go, Paul. In Durban, 1218 is the time mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 23 minutes after twelve and question still in need of answers. Why do girls develop earlier than boys? How do physicists prove that there are more stars in the universe? Or why do they claim there are more stars in the universe than grains of sand on beaches? Do microwave ovens cook food in a way that is less healthy than other ovens? And the salivation scale is almost certainly going to need revisiting. But at the moment, I'm confident I got it right. Annie is in woking. Question or answer? Annie, I've got an answer for you about microwaves. I've been a chef for 25 years and I have a couple of restaurants. Microwaves have been around for, well, since the eighties. They're actually really good for food. They're not bad. The microwaves actually cause intense heat within the food by moving molecules at great speed, which releases moisture. If you were to put our pancakes in the microwave, it makes them steam, which makes them softer and fluffier. And if you put a piece of broccoli, which is a good way of putting it, put a piece of broccoli in the microwave, it will make it extremely green. Green is the goodness from the superfood part, which holds all the nutrients, whereas if you were to boil it. You boil out the goodness and the goodness is left in the water, so, in fact, in some cases, it will make the food better for you than boiling it. And your qualifications are your chef. Ee. Your decades of chef, 25 years of chef. I've got two restaurants and we do maybe a thousand cupboards a day. Now, this isn't the question that you cleared with the producer, so normally I would tell you off. You can't just come on and answer whatever you question you want. It's not a lucky dip, madam. But that's such a good answer. When I heard the question, I was thinking, I'm so glad I'm on the line, I don't have to wait. Well, look, in future, let's please not do that again. I'm so sorry. No. No, you're not. No, well, I just know that. Well, that's why they put you through, because I thought that you were going to embarrass me by pointing out a mistake I've made previously. But you're not allowed to do that now. So you've let every. You've let them down. You've let me down. But most of all, Annie, you've let yourself down. But not really, because you don't know the real answer to correct the question that you answered earlier, which was, in fact, doesn't matter, because we're never going to hear another word from you again. You're not going to know. And you've sacrificed your round of applause by disobeying the cardinal rules of mystery. Out. I'm rude. I've just taught you something about food. I'm rude? You just phoned up a radio show, told the producer what you were gonna say on air, got put through on the strength of that conversation and then went off in a completely different direction. But I'm rude. Find out. How exciting. I'm giving you a good answer. And it's right. That doesn't matter, is it? You've broken the rules. Oh, that's so not fair. Score a goal after you. After straying into an offside position. Annie. And the goal doesn't count. Hugo's in Kilburn. Hugo. Question or answer? Hello, James. I've got a question. Please, mate. Go on, then. All right, try not to sound too thick. Sick or sick? Sick. Carry on. Do dogs lick? Kiss you out of affection? What makes you think that they might not? After you've had dinner or a snack, the dog will sometimes sniff around you, like your face a bit, and then lick you randomly where you're not asking to be licked. That's what makes me think they lick other dogs out of affection. So they're probably licking us. Not very often, though. That's why I was thinking to myself, they nozzle. They nozzle and stuff. Yeah. It's even. They're just licking each other. Do you? No, actually, now you come to. Well, you. Do they groom each other or is that just cats? No, I think that's mostly cat. Is it? I think so. So dogs only lick humans and sort of lollipops. I'm talking about. Often, like regularity, my dog will randomly lick my face. And you want to know, is it affection or have you just got a really tasty face? Presume it's affection, but I don't know how we'd prove it. I presume it's affection. Why else would anyone. Why else would any living creature want to lick your face? Hugo, if it's not affection, what other reason could there be for any organism wanting to lick your face? No offense. I'm sure you've got a lovely face. I'm with you, James. I just hope it is, like, out of affection, just random. Trying to see if my face tastes something. Yeah, well, you could always lick your own face. It might be a little bit tricky, but, you know. My tongue not big enough. James. Unlucky. We've all got our crosses to bear. Here you go. 27 minutes after twelve. This is the time. Do dogs lick out of affection? Do I cross the microwave question off? Now that it's been correctly answered, she did nail it, but she didn't get around, so I'm crossing it off the list. Sand versus stars. And why do girls develop earlier than boys? Couple of phone lines free now. Zero. 345-606-0973 and remember, if you play with the LBC mystery, our rules. If you try and ride roughshod over the regulations. Hang on a minute. This could be a little bit spooky. Who's speaking to Bruce Inciscip at the moment? Is he? Has he rung in about the dog question? No, he hasn't. Oh, all right. There's a bloke who parks his van near me. Bruce's doggy daycare, and I just thought maybe. Anyway, isn't Robert is in. Wilson. Robert. Question or answer? Slightly odd question. Hang on a minute. I've just seen the question in advance on this. Are you setting me up for some sort of prank call or gag? I'm really not. You promised me. There's not an answer to this that involves dirty words. I've not done it in the past. All right, then. Go on then. So, um. Yeah. Okay. Why do I sneeze when I have sexual thoughts? Sometimes. Not all the time. Not all the time, but sometimes. But more often than you sneeze ordinarily, so that you think there's a link between a sexual thought and a sneeze, because we all sneeze occasionally. And occasionally it might coincide with a sexual thought. But you're seeing a causal link. Yes. Yes. So there are times where I don't have to sneeze and then I have the thought and then I end up sneezing. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. That's not mate, it's mystery. I'm just keeping you on the line in case you sneeze. I'll take it as a massive compliment. Why does Robert, or indeed anybody else, if it is a condition that's not confined to that peculiar corner of Wilsdon, why does Robert sneeze whenever he has sexual thoughts? I remember one of those old schoolboy myths about eight sneezes being the equivalent to an orgasm or something like that. But I don't know whether that was. It was up there roughly around the era that I believed if you sneezed with your eyes open, your eyeballs would pop out and dangle on stalks. Sorry. You might be having your lunch. It's 12:30 Simon. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 1233. Mystery hour continues. Girls and boys, why do girls develop earlier? How do physicists base their claim or where physicists based their claim that there are more stars in the universe than grains of sand? On all the beaches in the world on the planet. Dogs and licking. Is it affection? And what was his name? Robert. I'd have used a false name. I'd have called myself Derek. But anyway, Robert in Wilson wants to know why he sneezes when he has sexual thoughts. Sometimes. Not all the time. Okay, Anna is in workshop. Anna, question or answer? Oh, it's an answer, but thank you for taking my call. You're very welcome. Thank you. I had a bowel resection in 2005 and I lost my bowel sound. And I asked my consultant a few months afterwards. I had a colostomy for some time and I asked him why I'd lost my bowel sound. It wasn't actually to do with acid in my stomach. It was because it was my bowel. My intestines weren't full. When your intestines are full and you've got lots of food in your stomach, there's no room for echoing vibration because it actually absorbs what's going on and all the sounds itself within the bowel and the gut. But when your stomach is actually empty, that's when it causes all the noise and you can actually hear it because there's no absorption of food. So the noise is all. So. So the noise is always happening, but it is linked and it's not linked to acid, it's not linked to digestion. Okay. Yeah. It's actually purely about the absorption of the sound. So when the stomach is empty, that's what causes actually the noise. So I wasn't completely wrong. I mean, the sounds are there because of acid. So why do you hear the rumbling when the food is when you're hungry? Answer, actually. Well, you always rumble, but you only hear it when. But why do you rumble all the time? The answer is stomach acid and digestion and stuff. Yeah, it can digestion of the food, but the main rumbling is because of you're actually hungry and you can hear it. But if you actually had a cup of tea, you wouldn't hear the sounds of the acid in your stomach. So it's just insulation. It's like soundproofing. Absolutely. You're very good. You're very good because you've made. You've effectively rung up to call me stupid, but you've made it quite a pleasant, pleasant experience, Anna, thank you very much. I appreciate that. Thank you very much. I appreciate it too. Much better than ringing me up to make me feel stupid and doing it in a nasty way. I could give you two rounds of applause. The first is a refund on the one I took without justification, and the second is yours to keep. All right, thank you very much. Thank you so much. Lovely answer. And there it goes. Double bubble. Double bubble. Okay, just for the. For the hat trick, what did Winnie the Pooh have to say? What did Winnie the Pooh have to say on this subject? Oh, I don't know. I would ask my voice control in the corner. That would give me the answer. The rumbly in my tumblr. Oh, that's right. I said that to my kids as well. I should have remembered it, had it far away. You never know when it might come in useful. Thank you, Anna. Seriously, Mike is in Basildon. Question or answer, Mike? Answer. James. Carry answer. I would say women. You might as well wear a t shirt saying unreliable answer. I would say, mate. This is. This is the. This is the feast of the definitives. I mistakenly style this call off by being polite. All right, well, you don't want to make that mistake again. I can tell you've had a tough week. I've listened to you all week. I can tell you about a bad week. And that's why you were so grumpy to that chef, weren't you? What chef? The chef. The lady that rung up about the great week. You can't break the rules of mystery hour. I think you've been very grumpy this week. I'm always grumpy. I think you've had a hard week. I feel like. You feel like you're a lone crusader, don't you? On the airwaves and in the media about this whole Brexit thing. And there is a masterclass in how not to contribute to the fun and frolics that is mystery hour. Jack is in Leeds. Jack, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on, James. Yes. As a kid, I always stick my tongue out when I used to play pool. Concentrate. Why do we. Or some people stick their tongue out when they come to. I know. I can't remember this same. Like threading a needle or when ladies are putting on mascara. Put your tongue. It's something to do with. I'm not gonna get there, mate. I'm. Seriously, I've got nothing. But why do you stick your tongue out when you're concentrating? You didn't check. You didn't check the archive before you came on with this one, did you? I didn't know, mate. Apologies, but no, also, you're in lead, so we probably answered this before the station went national. So why would you. I mean, also, you probably haven't been listening for that long. I will, um. I'll find out for you, I promise. All right, I'd appreciate that. We've got 22 minutes to do it. Let's nail this. Why do you stick your tongue out when you're concentrating? 1238 is the time. I know, I know. Everybody loves the floor laid out all right? But if I did it any more often, it wouldn't be as much fun. Bruce is in Chiswick. Bruce. Question or answer? Neither. Just to tell you that you're wrong on. What? You're wrong on. Hang on. I've only got. I've only got 20 minutes of the program left. Not what I'm wrong on. Everything. Just give me the specific thing I've been wrong about today. Salivation. When you look at an animal. Oh, Lord. If you bring up. If you. If I look at a cow. Yeah. A long horn cow. I know that's beef and I know I cook. I'll slaughter it, cook it and eat it. I'm salivating. If I look at a pig saying turkey, I won't go anywhere near it because it looks like it's got my elbow skin hanging off its neck. So I wouldn't do that. Are you a butcher? I am not a butcher, but I'm not from England and I think you're probably leaning on your saxon heritage here, but in eastern Europe we slaughter animals, hang the meat and cook it. No, but that doesn't make me wrong. No, I'm not. Because you've got a sense. You've got a sense memory of slaughtering me. So you have a relationship in your mind and memory between a live longhorn. I don't know why he chose Longhorn, but, hey, each to his own. A long horn cow. You said your word. Impossible. You can't do it. No, no, the fellow, the fellow who asked the question has never slaughtered a cow, so he's never going to have an association in his mind between a meal and a cow. You as a cow slaughter, I'm happy to give a dispensation on this cow. Slaughterers obviously will feel a little bit salivation if they see a cow that they are prepared to slaughter and then eat. But it's still the same thing. You wouldn't salivate over a freezing. Why not? Because they produce milk. But the steaks, they sell it. What's that place down in Mayfair? It's doing. This is the big thing, Bruce. You should. You should know. I can't remember what it's called, but they do this. It's actually quite old. Milk cow steaks that are supposed to be among the most ten. Yeah, straight up. You'd love it. A big, big carnival like you, Bruce. Yeah. You try to remember the name of the restaurant. It's owned by an actor called Oliver Milburn. Google it. Find the restaurant. And they're knocking out these amazing steaks. I've never been myself, but everybody says they're absolutely incredible and they're steaks that come from quite old milk cows. So I tell you what, you can have one of those and you'll never look at a Friesian in the same way again. Bruce. I'm going to give it a go, but I think everyone. Kitty Fishers. It's called kitty fish, as it's called. I don't think it's cheap, which is probably why I've never been. But. But if you want to get down there, I'm booking it up. Carry on, Bruce. Round of applause for Bruce. Been a good bloke. Glenn is in East Finchley. Glenn, question or answer? It's a question. Deaf people? Yeah. Sign language. Is it the same unit? Is it. I think, browse Universal around the world. But is sign language universal? No, just bug me. No. How do you know? Well, we've had the question before. What you mean how do I know? I know. How long do you listen to the program for? I know lots of stuff. Glenn, how do you know? I mean. I mean. Well, how come braille. Braille is universal? I don't know that braille is universal. I wouldn't have answered that question quite as confidently as I answered. I answered the last one. There are. There are about. Off the top of my head, there are about 130 various sign languages on this planet. Are they really? Yeah. And when you look it up on Google later and you see that exact number, 130, that's just a coincidence. I don't. I don't Google, mate. That's the way. That's the way. That's the way forward. I didn't actually Google it, but I've googled it in the past, and I know that there is 130, about well over 100, certainly. What, so 130 different people that talk. So. So, like, someone from China will have a Danny Larue. What someone from England is saying is they're both deaf. Danny Larue. So I'm younger than you. I go with Scooby Doo. They won't have a Scooby Doo. What's going on? Serious, straight up, about. About 130 different sign languages. Okay. Okay, you've answered it. Fair play. Now, why do you want to know? Well, it's just been bugging me because, you know, I watched. I was watching a deaf film the other day when I saw it was deaf. Yeah. And it just. It just because that they were in a different country, and it just made me think maybe that their sign language would be the same. Yeah, it would make sense. It just. I guess it just hasn't. I mean. Well, then why would it make sense? We all speak different languages. Why would deaf people be any different? Yeah, but I would have thought because, you know, deaf is. Being deaf is universal. You know, it ain't like, you know, so is having the power of speech. All right, all right, fair enough. Fair enough. Thank you, Glenn. Round of applause for me. Thank you. Please. Thank you. Clayton's in. Wood for Clayton. Question or answer? Answer, Jane. Carry on, Clayton. It's to do with the difference between boys and girls. Can I tell you something weird before you answer that question? Go on in. I didn't used to like the name Clayton and now I really do. Why would that be? I don't know. That's a mystery, isn't it? I was a lad at school called Clayton. I got on perfectly well with him, but now when I saw Clayton on the board, I sort of thought, I like. That's a nice name, Clayton. Clayton. It's quite a manly name. Thank you. Carry on. So, back to the answer that you've got. It's got something to do with the growth of the baby inside the womb of the mother and the fact that the male child is trying to grow have different hormones to the host, and so therefore it's in a slight state of conflict. And that's why some boys are also at more risk of getting diseases and illnesses and very dangerous symptoms or potential killing illnesses that might kill them at a very young age. They're still developing once they've left the womb, that balance of hormones, and they will always be behind the female child until they pass puberty, which is when they start to catch up, and then when adulthood, it's all even. Yes, that's an incredibly plausible answer and obviously I'm minded to trust people called Clayton because it's such a lovely name. But what are your qualifications? My qualifications are, when I did my master's at university, I studied how children compared the pink brain versus the blue braid, because I was trying to design a product to breach both sexes in growing up and I found out by reading the book Pink boob, pink Brain, blue brain, that that's the difference between the sexes at an early age. So that's one of the reasons for it. The, um. That's pretty strong. I mean, I got a lot of time for this answer and. Yeah, I think you've got it. You've done it. A peak round of applause, isn't it? Yeah. No. Did you use the word testosterone in your answer? Yes, I did. There you go. I see. Then give me another round of applause. Seriously, I love the word testosterone. Not as much as I like the name Peyton. Tell you what, you ever meet a Clayton with a lot of testosterone and I'm in big trouble. It's 1245, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 1249 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What is the. We've done that one, haven't we? Do. Do dogs lick humans because they like them, or is there another reason? Emma's provided a brilliant answer by text, which I will use, if I remember, if no one else has got in in the next ten minutes, Robert in Willesden we've hung him out to dry we haven't even. I've just checked with the producer we haven't had a single call on this why does Rob M. Wilson sneeze when he gets sexual thoughts? Zero 345-606-0973 this one is easy someone's got to be up. There's a. I'll tell you, it's an open goal we're giving away rounds of applause. Why do we stick our tongue out when we're concentrating? And that old adage about there being more stars in the universe than there are grains of sand on the beaches of the planet question is, how do they know that then? Martin's in St Albans Martin, question or answer? Question. Another easy one for you, James well, don't be so sure of that go on why is there a watershed on the tv but not on the radio? In what way? Because I mean obviously you're not the only one, Martin, I tell you, but I don't know actually I think there is some swearing on the radio but there's no actual watershed I think you're more likely to get on would a complaint be more likely, likely to be upheld if I f and blinded now than if, you know, if Darren did it at 02:00 in the morning yeah, but after 09:00 on tv and have programs like the f word and so on and so forth now things I can't say so why is it we're allowed to see and hear them but not hear them? I mean, Gordon Ramsay is I don't know. That's a really. You just put me on the back foot a bit when you said it was easy and that I'd know the answer I haven't got I haven't got genius. I haven't got. Don't be sarcastic, Martin. I haven't got a Danny Larue, Scooby doo I'm your age we have all right, carry on. Thank you, captain. Not quite got ten minutes but that's a great question why is there no watershed on the radio? Who would even know the answer to that? Professor Hal is here Professor Hal, for those of you unfamiliar with this feature or indeed this contributor, is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton something of a mystery hour institution don't he's ever rung him with a question but I still ask. Question or answer? How? It's an answer, Jane carry on. Would it be a. Would you like it if I told you a very short but very funny story of when I saw an animal and wanted to eat it there and then. And then answer the science question. You see that lady with the restaurants? That's all you have to do. Just. Just run it by me, ask permission, be polite, and then get a free pass. Go on. Tell me the pressure's on there. It better be funny, right? You won't know that I used to run marathons to quite a high standard. And on a particular marathon, which wasn't a very good one, it was around Sussex, I forgot to take some energy bars, and so I got hyperglycemic. I was actually shaking and so forth. Absolutely shaking and all over the place. And then I happened across a field of sheep, and I looked at one of these sheep, and it was like on Tom and Jerry, when they see an animal and suddenly in their head, it morphs into a beautifully prepared joint of meat. I wanted to eat that sheep. And if I hadn't been trying to get good time, you know, straight up, actual salivation at the sight of a sheep, I was. I wanted to eat this. The dirty old sheep with the dirty old feet. Yeah, I buy it. Okay, so I was kind of wrong. Well, it had to be hyperglycemic on a very fast marathon. But anyway. But still. Hang on. I want to tell you something even weirder than that. Okay. I started salivating when you said marathon. Marathon. No, because old marathon. That's why I did marathons, because I always think marathon bars. I started salivating when you said marathon, and they're not even called marathons anymore. And I thought that was always an affront to society when they changed the name fountains, opal fruits. Anyway, why did you ring in? I've actually half forgotten. Axel, can you give me a Snickers? Thank you. Carry on. Al the slightly glib and claim that there are more stars in the sky than there are grains of sand on the beach. Yes, it's probably true. And it's probably true because, well, there's two things. First of all, the. The caller was wrong to say the universe is limited. It's not. We live in a closed universe, which is still expanding. The big Bang had a beginning, and therefore, at some point, they'll be there. And one of the proofs of that is when you tune your analog tv and you see the static. Some of that static is actually from an echo of the big Bang. You're saying I'm looking at the creation of the universe because there's radiation corresponding to the echo of that expansion of the universe. But the point is that the Hubble telescope, which went up, I think, about 30 years ago, has opened our knowledge of exactly what's out there in quotes. And there's a particular thing that goes around on all the Facebook science fora, where they pointed it at a patch of apparently empty sky and they saw the little dots which turned out to be galaxies. And so someone said galaxies. Yes. What are you doing to me, ma'am? Oh, yes. One of which is the Milky Way. Go on. Okay, I'm gonna roll over my chair in a minute. And they counted all the, they counted all the potentially estimated all the stars in all the galaxies in all the world. And, and obviously there's a lot more than there are sand grains. Yes. And they're never gonna get it down to the sort of nearest five or ten grains of sand, but there are infinitely more stars and galaxies than there could possibly be trains. So I was right. It makes me sound so childish when I say that, but hey, we are where we are. I was right. I said they found a patch of sky, counted all the stars in it, and then estimated how big the universe is, and clearly blew the sand grains out of the water, so to speak. They extrapolated, extrapolated. Round of applause for Professor Howell. Christina is in blue water. Christina, question or answer? Oh, hang on. Joke alert. This is quite a funny joke because Robert in Willsden, you heard that he's the one that sneezes whenever he gets sexual thought. Bunsen, Bunsen Burner has been in touch to suggest that he's got serious tissues. Sorry, Christina, question or answer? Carry on. Yes, it's not a great line. Be as quick as you can. Yeah, it's because an inherent thing from when they're pupped with wool and they would lick the parents face to tell them they're hungry. With dogs now, it's when they lick our face, they get a good reaction from humans to learn behavior through something they've always done inherently from wolves. Some people mention salt in the context of these conversations, but because Emma, who is one of my all time favorite texters, she has provided that answer as well. It encourages the adults to regurgitate half digested meat to feed the puppy. So you lick the chin in particular and you get a lovely. I'll tell you what old Bruce in is, he could love this. He gets some regurgitated meat that's right up his straw. So if he's walking around the place, Bruce, don't go and lick anyone's chins today. All right. Between Bruce and Robert, we've unleashed an army of perverts on the capital. Cristina, thank you. Round of applause for Christina. You'll notice I always uncomfortable talking to people who are driving, but obviously we checked, she was safe. Paul's in Birmingham. Paul, question or answer? Answer. James, carry on. It's to do with the salivating. When we nailed that. No, it's to the tongue. Why do you stick your tongue. Why do you stick your tongue out when you're concentrating? Yeah. The amount of brain power that's required to just look after your tongue, it's constantly moving in your mouth. When you're not talking, when you are talking. So when you're concentrating on something really, really difficult, even if it's just like drawing a circle or doing a picture, you stick your tongue out because your brain wants to stop your tongue from choking yourself and going to the back of your throat. The reason that I know this is because my son, who's now seven, he sticks his tongue out all the time when he's writing. He suffers from cerebral palsy, so he finds it really, really difficult to draw, to write and all this kind of thing. So you looked it up and. No, we asked the doctor because I thought it was because my wife did it. My wife's constantly sticking her tongue out when she's. Are you not detecting a theme here, Paul? You sure it's not just you? No, it's not just me, no. So we have to. Who's sticking their tongue out, Paul, now? No. You sound like lovely bloke. I'm teasing you and I'm only cracking on because I want to try. And I think if we get the next caller on in time, then we've actually cleared the board today. Round of applause for Paul. Whereabouts in Birmingham are you, Paul? I'm from King's Heath. Fantastic part of the world. 1258 is the time. Mike's in chess. And Mike, what have you got? James? Afternoon, mate. All right? Yeah, well, good. Quick, quick. Sheila's here, the radio one. That watershed. Yes. If I'm in Australia, I can listen to a program that's on at, say, 08:00 at night. If you start swearing at 08:00 at night in the UK. Because I'm tuning in from another country. No, no. No way. Because they effing blind like you wouldn't believe on australian radio and television. Mohammed is in Barbican. How many? Question or answer? Answer. Sexually induced sneezing. Sexually induced sneezing. It's a thing, is it? It's got a name. Or did you just make that up? Yeah. No, no, no, it's got a name. You can look it up. Oh, lord. Mainly when people have orgasm, but it can only happen with sexual thoughts. Normally you something called one of the nervous system that makes your heart rate or sweat when you're excited, whatever can only be cross linked. You're sneezing. The tip to the guy who complains of that. Never tell anyone who's got that. Just say he's got hay fever, otherwise they're going to call him out every time he's excited. It's a bit late for that now, isn't it? For old Robert in Wilson, the sexy sneezer. Qualification? Qualifications, Mohammed. Qualifications? Medic. Medic. Round of applause. That's it for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. I'm James O'Brien. This is LBC here, Sheila Fogarty. Contented to sneeze. Thank you very much indeed, James.