Where does the word 'lanky' come from?

James O'Brien, mystery hour James O'Brien, what a time to be alive. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. So if you want to get in touch, you know what to do. If you're unfamiliar with this part of the program, the 1 hour of the week where you decide what mysteries we're going to seek to solve together, as opposed to the other 14 hours where I have the privilege of at least setting the parameters of our exchanges, then it's a little like those newspaper and magazine features where someone writes in saying, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's the origin? Or I noticed this thing or that thing and I want to know what the story is. And then several weeks or years later, possibly decades, someone else will write in using snail mail and solve their mystery. This is the instant gratification version of that. This is the absolute speedy version. And it will deliver satisfaction only if people ask good questions, though, and I felt standards have slipped a bit in recent weeks. So we'll be interested this week to see whether or not we can, because at some point I will abolish mystery. Al, you know, I'm not going to carry on doing it until it peters out. I will take a brutal desuit that Keith just looked up. Keith's very the only reason Keith works on this program is because of mystery. Keith's mom got in touch yesterday, I should add, she was a little put out by the question that came in asking if Keith was real or whether he is just a figment of my imagination, used in a Steve Allen style to sort of paint pictures on the radio. I'm very sorry misses Keith. Of course your boy is real and he is now a very, very valued member of our little team. But he only wanted this gig as a mystery out. Make no mistake about it. He's not interested in politics. He thinks Brexit is a brilliant idea he's got I'm joking now, obviously, but not about the mystery out bit. So when I just said there that one day I'll probably pull the plug on it, Keith just thought, I have rearranged my entire working life to get a gig on this program so that I can be there in a ringside seat where mystery hour if you abolish mystery hour O'Brien it'd be like, it'd be like Whitney Houston's sister in the bodyguard. It's five minutes after going back to Sheila's show and mystery Arrow is upon us. So ring in 345-606-0973 ask any question you want. There'll be a degree of finessing on the switchboard. That is, if it's complete rubbish or if my colleagues are concerned that I might ball them out for putting it through. You might not get through. Although, frankly, in recent weeks, I don't think those standards have applied particularly. So fill your boots. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you're new to it, slight irritations. I should probably give you a heads up. I'll get right on your wick trying to answer everything. But, you know, I'm 47 now. I'm setting my ways. And if your qualifications for answering a question are of breathtaking relevance, if, for example, we are asking a question about, I don't know, cat's eyes in the middle of the road and you invented them, then you'll get the finest accolade that british radio can bestow. You'll get a Ray Liotta if you don't know what that is, or you better just hope someone rings in with astonishingly good qualifications to answer whatever question it is that they've rung in to answer. Six minutes after tolls it's time on enough from me, enough burbling. Keith says, crack on. Michael's in Hatfield. Michael, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Yes. Love the show. You're very. So, basically. Yeah. Well, basically. Yeah, yeah. Quick, quick little story. Go on. I've got this colleague at work, right. That's quite annoying. Like, she always like, me too. Man, you could get to run for the european parliament. At least you'll get a holiday anyway, like, yeah, she was watching. Always brings conversation back to herself. Right. So basically what I did is I took a tally how many times. She'd always interrupt the conversation or talk about ourselves and, like, honestly. Yeah, but, like, I was telling her up, right, and you know when you do. 12345. Yeah. The fifth one I noticed, I did that gate thing, you know, you did the gate at the end. I was thinking, that's not a roman numeral or anything. Like, who started that? Where did that come from? So when you're counting, you cross out the five ones and then move on to a new one. Well, the five of the four. So there's four. And then you do a five of the cross and then you move on to the next one. Oh, okay. Is that right? Okay. I don't want to know where that comes from. Well, you started it. Where'd it come from? No, I like that. I mean, it'll probably have quite a nice, simple answer, as well. It'll be something to do with days before literacy. So you wouldn't have recognized what a number five looked like or what a number three looked like. But you can do. It's a form of binary. But where did it come from? And it's used in kind of order auditing and accounting. Exactly. I'm not an accountant. No, clearly, mate, you'd have a calculator. Is she still your colleague, this lady? Yeah. Yeah. I'm gonna go. I'm from lunch. I'll have to go see her in a bit. Are you sure they don't have me on in the office or something like that? This could be all very embarrassing. I know. That's what I do. I put your headphones. I put you on my headphones in. Just as well. What if she's listening in the headphones as well? Mate, she definitely is. Don't worry about that. She might be downloading the podcast later. She's gonna hear this. She's gonna go. I'll just. You wait until Tuesday. I'm gonna get that, Michael. No. I have a podcast. She doesn't even listen to my podcast. She's not gonna listen to anyone else's. She doesn't even listen to yours. Exactly. It's just rude. What's yours? Is yours decent? Can you mention it on national radio without getting me into any trouble or embarrassing me? Yeah. So, it's just the shoot or shoot podcast where a couple guys talk about or three black guys talk about opinions and things that annoy us. Really like it. What's it called again? The shooters shoot podcast. Podcast. There you go. He didn't even know that was gonna happen when he rang in today. Um. That counting thing. He's right. 1234 cross. 1234 cross. Look at it. Ten or two. Oh, Marcus is in Islington. Question or answer? Marcus question, please carry on. So, when you have. When you buy that hand sanitizer. When you buy one. No. Hand sanitizer. The 99% hand sanitizer. Oh, we've lost him. Oh, no. Let's get him back quick. I'm absolutely agog to know what question he wants to ask about hand sanitizer, but the phone line just went down. So we got our first question from Michael, which is, what is the origin of that counting method where you do four marks and then cross it out with the fifth? And number two with Marcus has got something to do with hand sanitizer. And he's back. Marcus, carry on. Yes. Sorry, sorry. The hand gel, you know, so when you. So when you apply it to your hands, where does. So when your hands are dirty, where does the actual germs go? When you wipe on your hands, where does. You mean, like the dead germs? Yeah. Where does, where does it, where does it go to if you're just still in your hand? Well, you know, they're going to be, like, infinitesimally small. Yeah. You probably wouldn't even be able to see them through a microscope. Okay. So, yeah, I just wondered. Because I think they just stay there. I think they just stay there. But where does it go? I don't know. Okay. No, it's a good. I mean, I'm not. I think it's a good question, but. So does it stay in your hands, then? Yeah, but they can't. I mean, where else could they go? Exactly. I know. So when. So your hands are. Not necessarily. You got me. Got my head gone. Now I've got a flipping. Why aren't we drowning in dead germs? Because even if they're tiny, there'd be gazillions of them over the years, every time they get whacked with a bit of hand sanitizer, you'd think eventually, in a hospital near the hand sanitizer dispenser, if you look down, there'd be a very sort of light little dusting of dead germs on the floor, wouldn't you? Precisely. I like the way your brain works, Marcus, but I don't know if you should take that as a compliment. I will take it one. Fair enough. So Michael's counting and Marcus's dead germs. Any answers? Zero. 345-606-0973 Sharif is in Putney. Sharif, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Well, I was playing football a little while ago, and anytime I've spoken to people about this story. Yeah. And we come up with the same question. Where does it come from? So I was playing with two fairly famous footballers, one very, very small, one very, very tall. Lionel Messi and Peter Crouch. You're close. Let's try Dennis wise and Troy Andre cloak. Very big in size difference. There is a big size difference. When we talk about it, I always have this question. We all thought of the same thing. Why do we call him Lanky? Where does the word lanky come from? I like that. Actually. I don't have a clue. We all know the word. I don't know if it's used very often. Anymore. But all of us thought I. So, Lanky, where does it come from? I really like that. I've got no idea. I mean, we don't do many derivations of words because they can be either a bit obvious or a bit obtuse. Eventually it's just the answer becomes, well, why do we call it that? Because we do. But Lanky must be a strange word. Yeah, I like it. You're on. So were you good then, were you? I mean, what happened? I was a goalkeeper, which is probably why I didn't go. But. But you were just playing for fun. You weren't. You weren't. We were playing. Yeah, it's five a side. How do you end up playing fiver side with Dennis Wise and Tor Andre Flo? Well, it was against them. Yeah. And they were on the same five. Aside to mate, that's a Pauli. So you're like a pub team and you're sitting there waiting for a bit of a kick about and then Dennis wise and Tor Andre Flo turn up on the other team. Yep. God help us. It's almost like a channel five documentary waiting to. A channel five reality show waiting to be made. Isn't it unfair on me being the goalkeeper? How many did you. How many did you let in, Sheree? I don't think we did too well on the day. How many did you let in, mate? How many do you. I'm gonna go Paxman on you. Seems to run a little bit wild, so let's just say it was in the double figures, 13 minutes after twelve. He used to play against a school that only had about eight kids in it and they'd call the game off every season at halftime because we'd be about 14 nil up and they just thought it wasn't fair on the other kids. So I know you're paying, or at least they do. Bradley's in Twickenham. Bradley, question or answer? It's a question, James. The first of all, I'd like to say I like your beard, by the way. Thank you, Bradley. But Roald Dahl said that men with beard hide weak chins, so I don't know if that's true or not. Could be. But my question is, in the old days, when a hot air balloon. Why the old days? Well, because the old days when they used to fly the hot air balloons, they don't think they had the release valve in them days on the top of. Oh, I see. Okay. Yeah, they used to have the sandbags inside the balloon and when they go to land, obviously they turn off the gas and they would put the sandbags on the outside of the balloon. Outside the basket. Yeah. So that they dropped. But my question is, if the sandbags were in the basket or hanging outside of the basket, how does that make any difference? Wasn't it more for balance? Wasn't it more to make sure that it came down in a balanced fashion, rather than the sandbags being used, having somehow a different mass inside or outside the basket? Because your brain is right. Your brain says, how can that make any difference? The answer is, it doesn't. The only thing it would make a difference to is balance, is the spread of the burden as the basket comes down. If you wanted to come down evenly, the sandbags would provide balance and ballast. So they would make a lot more sense to have them in the four corners of the basket or on the four sides of the basket. No. So why didn't they have them in the four corners inside the basket? Why? Well, I didn't. I don't know. Is it. I mean. Well, you. Well, you know. You know the answer to that as well. It's the same reason why you put your arms out when you're trying to balance. The more width you can get on your axis, the more balance you will achieve, I suppose. But then the top of your arms, your upper arms are heavier than your wrists, so that wouldn't make any difference. Okay, well, I'll tell you what, let's meet up later. We'll both try and walk over a narrow plank. I'll put my arms out, you keep yours in your pocket and we'll see who gets to the other side, mate. Yeah, deal. That's my weekend sorted. This is LBC. If you get Bt super fast, 18 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we are trying to find out, where do all the dead germs go when you use hand sanitizer? I hope that question gets an answer because I love it. What's the origin of the adjective lanky? Where does that come from? The hot air balloons question I think I've answered. But the sandbags on the outside of the basket, back in the day, how come? Surely they would have served the same purpose, whether inside or outside. But I think the answer will be to do with balance. What was Michael's question? What was the first question? What tallies? And that thing where you tally up stuff, so you do 1234 and then cross through it for a five and. Thank you, I've lost it now, which is always the problem with my Twitter feed, it moves so fast. But I'll try and find it. Thank you to the accountant, who's just sent a picture of her current work to me today. Here it is. To Aman. Thank you. Aman, who is an accountant and does have a calculator, but still employs this method of tallying. Where does it come from? Professor Hal is here. He's in Brighton, where he is currently the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And I presume he's going to answer the question about dead germs. Yes, James, carry on. A nice question. Well, the wider question is, the dead germs go the same way your skin goes, because as we all know, your skin turns over every 28 days, which is why you lose your suntan. So what happens is you wipe your hand with the hand sanitizer, it kills the germs and then the alcohol and the sanitizer evaporates and they then leave, they create house dust. The dust in your house is 90% human skin and bacteria and flakes of dander, and that's where they go. So the cleaners clean it all up and it all goes the same way. And how. I mean, I don't want to sound like an idiot. How big would a dead germ be? Well, they're going to. There's a variety of sizes, of course. Yeah. And they're going to be smaller than skin, skin cells. And they actually. I mean, some of them are going to stay airborne because things like clouds and blanc mange and other things have got one face in another. So some of them are going to stay airborne, they get breathed in, and that's why you have mucus in your nose, to catch all those various things. And hands, they just get. They just get distributed around and then cleaned up by the cleaners. So, yeah, I mean, it kind of is obvious, isn't it, in a way, when you think about it. It isn't. It isn't, because it's like the question I always want to ask is, where does all this, all the tires that wear out, they go from 6 tread to 2 mm. Where does all the tire rubber go? It's crumb. And it just gets washed down. We've done that. Or mistry. It must have been one of the rare occasions when you weren't listening. No, I never. I never don't listen. You missed that one. It was that time you were in Russia. Well, I was knee deep in snow, as we know, on hold for 20 minutes, as opposed to being knee deep in tire dust. Which is what you would expect to be if you hadn't understood the reason why it all gets washed away by rain and drains. Exactly. But it's a lot of thermodynamics. We all succumb to thermodynamics. Everything goes from being big particles and big molecules to smaller ones. Qualifications? I'm really lucky to be the professor of public understanding at the University of Brighton. Public understanding of science. Yes, it is. I missed off the last three syllables. That's all right. That's what I'm here for. Round of applause for Professor Hal. There you go. Marcus. Kathy is in den Hag. Cathy, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. Yeah. When the universe formed, why is it that stars and planets tended to form into spherical shapes? Ball. But the galaxies themselves have formed into flatter disk shapes? Why the difference in the two shapes? Wrong number. No questions about dead germs and the word lanky. I mean, obviously we do very grown up scientific questions as well. The bit I don't understand is the distinction. So if you asked why the planets form into spheres and or why do galaxies form into flat disk shapes, but I don't know that I understand why you're comparing the two. Do you see what I mean? Only because they both formed by stuff moving around the galaxy or rotating around the galaxy. So I would have sort of thought that things would rotating around in space would tend to form into the same space. Obviously there's a reason, something to do with gravity about why one forms into a disk. One form. But galaxies are made of stars and stars are made of gas, whereas planets are made of matter, are made of solid matter, aren't they? Or is that. Yeah, I think so. I think that's right. Stars are made. I think if you put, if you put five bricks in the washing machine. Yeah. And just turned it on for ages, eventually they'd be spheres. Yeah, I'm sure you're right that it's something to do with what they're made up of, but I just don't exactly understand why one would end up being flat and one would be a nice ball shape. No, I. Well, I'm going to put it on the board. I like the question, but I just. I'm apologizing in advance for the possibility that it will be unanswered. If that is, there's no feature on dutch radio that you could have run. You decided to ring mystery out with this one? Sure. I love it. I love it. Let's find out for Cathy. Come on, send a. Send a message of love and understanding to Holland 23 minutes after twelve. Thank you, Kathy. Glenn's embassy. Question or answer? I've got an answer for you, mate. How you doing? I'm all good. Which one? It's the lanky. Oh, no, you can't. Why not? We're gonna cause a civil war in Basildon. Yeah, I know. You slaked us off yesterday. No, Wayne. Wayne is literally trying to ring in with an answer to the lanky question because he's got it out of brewers dictionary, phrase and fable that he read many years ago in pursuit. I read it in an anglo saxon poem, so I think I have to claim credit on that one. I'm gonna. Sorry. Wayne, pal, take it up with Glenn, he's just around the corner. Go on. What is the origin of lanky, then? Basically, lanky, or lang, l a n G, is the original Old English or Anglo saxon word for long. Oh, so it literally just means tall. So think of Edward the long shanks. Well, they spoke midling with that point, so his nickname would have been Langshanka. Lang meaning long and shanka meaning leg, as in Lambshank. Edward Longshanks. Yeah, well, would have been Langshanka back then, but, yeah, that's how we translate Lang shankar. And it's also one of my favorite Anglo saxon poems, where they take el de Langyatir, which means one eternal and long glory. So I tell you what, mate, you've just dismantled a few stereotypes about Essex, haven't you? Well, some of us read, mate. Qualifications? I read and translate anglo saxon poetry. You love it, don't you? Yes. It's probably one of my favorite hobbies, actually. That's an amazing hobby to have. How did you get into it, then? I've always been mad on history, James. Always been mad on history. I'm a huge fan of Bernacomill saxon stories. Yes. And I was literally, at the time, I was living in Benfleet and I was reading about in the novel the battle of Ben Fleet and looking out my window, looking at the hill where the battle was fought and things like that. It just comes alive, doesn't it? Comes alive, yeah. And I just sort of picked up a book and just started learning to sort of read and speak it a little bit. And so I'm not going to be fluent or anything, it's just a hobby. But it's interesting. It also really helps out my dyslexia, because now I can figure out where all the silent letters come from and you get roots of words. It's a bit like studying Latin, then, and being able to see where the words have come from and knowing, but with the Anglo saxon roots rather than the latin roots. Lovely code. Because Anglo Saxon is also a progressive language. We talk about 500 years of history. It's really just purely germanic. Then the Danes got their hands on it and they picked up a lot of Latin when they converted to Christianity. So it's a progressive language in its own right. Great work. Absolutely great. Have you read CJ, Sansom Shardlake novels? No, I don't read a lot of fiction, so. No, I know. But if you really like Burnett Cornwell, if you really like those ones, you will love the CJ Sansom Chardlake novels, mate. It's. It's a different period. It's Tudor, but they. It's like a book. Like, what Bernard Cornwell does is essentially smuggle in knowledge while telling you a brilliant story. And you finish the book because you're turning the page, because the story's brilliant and you turn around 2 hours after finishing it and realize you actually could probably pass an o level in that period if they ask you the questions quickly. So you'll get the same CJ Sansom. Trust me. I'll give him. I'll give him a look over at some point. Give it a whirl. He says he's not going to, is he? You can tell from. Round of applause for them. Hold on, Anthony's in Cardiff. Anthony, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Anthony, why is the speaker dragged up to his chair when he is elected? He's dragged up to the chair in the House of Commons? Yeah. Dragged, yeah. Pulled up to his chair. Yeah. Pulled out of his chair. No, he actually pulled up to his chair. Up to. So I haven't seen it. So after the election has been completed, there's a couple of. What, sergeant at arms, or is it other mp's grab him by. The MP's grab him by the shoulders and march him up to the chair. To the speaker's chair. Do they? Yes. All right. I didn't know that. I didn't want to know why. Yeah. And if I said it's a tradition, you'd laugh in my face and tell me to get serious. Yeah, pretty much, yeah. Fair enough. It's a tradition, Anthony. Fair enough. Get serious. No, I don't know. I like that. I'm not very bad on my House of Commons traditions. I teach all the wrong stuff in politics, a level like about the Westland affair and the SDP and stuff like that. Going back 20 odd years. Obviously. That's a lot more interesting. Why do they do that, then? Give us a call if you know the answer. 1227. Jeremy's in Wimbledon. Jeremy. Question or answer? An answer? Carry on, Jeremy. Finger, finger, finger, thumb, finger, finger, finger, finger, thumb, finger, finger, finger, finger, thumb? Yes. Correctly. Yes. Yeah. And that's how it works sometimes. Calls the gate. Yes. Because it looks like a four bar gate with the cross. Michael called it a gate, didn't he? And it's. It's a way of counting on paper in the way that you would have done with your hands. Yes. You would call in your tally man to help you with your counting, whatever you were counting, whether it was bales of hay or barrels of beer or bushels, and your tally man would do that. And to prove it to you, being an innumerable farmer or barrel owner or whatever, he would show you the strike. Strike. Strike. Strike. Of course. Love it. Qualifications. When do. When. When do we know when this became a thing about the 1850s? Oh, okay. I wasn't expecting you to be quite so specific with that. I know that. It's just something that stuck in the back of bed. All the best things end up stuck in the back of our heads. I am not going to challenge you or query you. I am, however, going to ask what your qualifications are. A sort of mathematics historian. I'll do. Round of applause for Jeremy. Thank you. Tally man. I like that. I'm trying to think of words that Tally man might have inspired. Tally man. Tally man. Tally man. Tally man. Anyway, that's just the way my brain works. Jeremy, you're a gentleman. Thank you very much indeed. Question still in need of answers. We've done the tallies, we've done the dead germs, we've done lanky. Kind of got that weird hot air balloon question. The speaker's chair. Why do they drag the speaker up to his chair after he's been elected? And why are planets round? But Galaxy's flat? I think. Come at that from whichever angle you prefer. And as half time looms, of course, I can reveal that you have an opportunity now to get your own questions up on the board by dialing zero 345-606-0973 Lisa Aziz is here now with the headlines. Three environmental activists accused of blocking a DLR train. It's 1235. Mystery hour continues. We have currently questions about the speaker's choice chair, the shape of planets and horse air balloons. I'll run you through what those questions are if I need to, imminently. But it means I have time for more questions. And if you have one that needs answering, give me a call on zero. 345-606-0973 Colin's in Solihull. Colin, question or answer? It's an answer, James. To the speaker's chair. Yeah. In the olden days, if the king didn't like what the speaker said, he could have the speaker bumped off. So to be elected speaker. Yeah, he would, you know, quite often get rid of the speaker. Really? And. Yeah. And if so, it was not seen, as always, a great. A reluctant honor. And that's why when a new speaker is elected, he has to be dragged from his chair because he shouldn't really want the honor of that. So it's an old traditional qualifications. I will in a minute. No way. So he gets. So. So it was a poison chalice of sorts, historically. Exactly, yeah. So if you didn't, you know, if you didn't do what the monarch wanted, probably one of the. Probably Charles or someone like that, then you could get rid of the speaker. Qualifications. I've got this from a Jeffrey Archer novel. I'm going to guess which one. No, I would be first among equals. First among sequels is exactly the one. Yes. It's a good read. It's a while since I read it, actually. It is, but it's a good read. I just remembered it from that. So somebody may know the proper. No, that'll be it. That would have been checked. They wouldn't have been able. That would have been fact checked and gone over. It's a great answer. Lovely illustration of just how diverse the qualifications can be to get a question right on mystery. So they drag him into the chair as a nod to the past when being the speaker was an extremely hazardous. I suppose it is these days, but you're just going to get a shoe in from the Daily Mail rather than actually get a stiletto and you're back from a angry wig. Who knows what that might lead to? But, yes, hopefully not. So, yeah, that's the answer. Round of applause. Brilliant work. Thanks. Don't go yet. You haven't got your round of applause. Here, put this in your pocket. All right. There you go. Great stuff. Luke's in woking. Luke, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Hello. Okay, so most modern phones use facial recognition to allow you to unlock them. Now, where you're. When you're wearing sunglasses, you can't unlock your phone. However, if you're not wearing sunglasses and you look to the left or to the right, not with your face, but just with your eyes, your phone won't unlock. I want to know why that is. Really? Yeah. All right. Say it again. So if you're wearing sunglasses, your phone won't unlock because obviously it can't unlock. I didn't know I'd use my thumb. Yeah, I've got one of the new phones, James, so it's a big thing. Is it for the kids? I think so. Right. So, yeah, so if you're wearing sunglasses, it won't unlock. If you look to the left or to the right, but not wearing sunglasses, it won't unlock. So, sorry, the sunglasses, it will unlock. Sunglasses won't unlock. Wait there a minute, Luke. Keith, do you understand this question? Keith? No, I think we need to hear it again. So let me run it by you, Luke. If I'm wearing my sunglasses and I'm trying to unlock my phone using facial recognition, it won't work. No, it will work. Right. Well, obviously it goes through. It goes through the lenses. So have you tried wearing sunglasses and looking to the left or the right at the same time? Yeah. And it will unlock at that point then, because it just completely blocks out your eyes. So it will still, I don't know whether it uses your, your nose to mouth ratio instead. To unlock it instead. So it doesn't unlock if you're not wearing sunglasses, but you're looking to the side when you do it. That's right. But if you've got your sunglasses on and you look to the side when you do it, it still unlocks. Yeah, it just sort of, I guess it gives up and eases something else in your face to unlock it. Okay, that's a better question than I realized. Luke, I owe you an apology. Well, no, I kind of owe you a theoretical apology for the theoretical abuse that I was going to inflict upon you for asking a rubbish question. But it turned out not to be a rubbish question in the nick of time because I didn't actually start unleashing theoretical abuse upon you. Yeah, it was a bit of a wordy question, but I think we could. I'm glad you said that. I think between us, we probably could have made it pithier. Yep. Okay. But it's too late now. So why, why does facial recognition reject sunglasses? Oh, it's gone again. Allows you to unlock your phone using sunglasses. If you're looking away, it won't unlock. I keep you on the line until someone rings in with the answer because I know I'm going to get the question wrong when I try and repeat it in a minute. We'll do our best, Keith. Keith, have you got this? Now, mate, you need to remind me of this when Luke's not here anymore to hold our hand. All right, Luke, I'll try and get you an answer. It's 1240. Ian's in Studley in Warwickshire. Ian, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. On the question of hot air balloons and sandbags. Oh, yes. My suggestion is that as the sand is supplied as ballast, attention is to. If you quickly eject it, you can gain lt, which is useful in desperate situations or tricky wind conditions. If you're low to the ground. Yes. If the sandbags are over the side, you can quickly cut the cords and release them and still keep an eye on what's going on outside of the basket. If the sandbags are inside, you can't see what's going on outside and you've then got to lift them outside and it takes longer. You're a genius. It's got nothing to do with balance. I was talking absolutely, wasn't I? Very polite, but yes. Well, I wasn't to say that, but you're usually right on this occasion. I don't think you're quite right. Qualifications? Ex private pilot, ex Royal Air Force. But I just put this one down to logic. So you've worked it out rather than actually. Not theoretically. I wouldn't let you have a round of applause for that, but seeing as I think your pontifications have led you to such an indisputably correct conclusion, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Once, it was one of the most exciting days of my life. At the age of about eight, they took me for a little ride in it, but only a few inches off the ground, because my mum was worried that they might abduct me. Sorry, I don't know quite where that anecdote came from. And then down Habberley Valley, I was playing cricket with my mate Paul in Habberley Valley one time, and we heard this terrible roaring noise behind, like. And a flipping great hot air balloon landed in the middle of Haberley Valley. And it gets weirder, this. Ian, you can go now. And this is for everybody. This our maths teacher. As Paul and I were at school together, our maths teacher was, as a hobby that we didn't know about. Used to be part of the chasing team. All hot air balloons have a car that chases them, because obviously, if you land somewhere, you've got to get out of there again, usually on four wheels. Can't just float home. And it was our maths teacher that was quite a weird day as well. John's in Oxford. John, question or answer? I've got an answer for you. Carry on. So in the answer to the galaxies being flat and planets, stars being sort of spheroid shape, galaxies are not completely flat in the sense that you would think as a two dimensional shape. But if you think the center of every galaxy there is a black hole, is that which is a very dense, dense matter that pulls everything towards it. But that black hole, at the same time, is also spinning very, very fast. Whilst that's spinning very fast and pulling us towards it, our solar system, we're spinning around that black hole and also traveling through space. So that black hole is also moving through space. Yeah. So when matter is pulled to a center or a center of gravity. I'm currently miming this just so that I get a better, because I've got quite a visual brain. I'm trying to picture what you're describing. So if I sound out of breath, it's because I'm waving my arms around like a lunatic. No problems. So our, our earth is a steroid shape, our sun's a steroid shape. The black hole is also a steroid shape. But flat. Uh, no, no. The. The century is. It would be. If we could see it, it would be a steroid shape. So hole is a misnomer shape. Hole is a bit of a misnomer. It's a bit misleading, the word hole. Hole. It's called a black hole because something can escape it. Yes. Because its gravity is so dense, not even like an escape of black hole. Okay. So it's pulling us towards it, we're spinning around it and that's why. And it's also traveling through the universe at some. At some speed. So that's why it would appear to be flat. But it wouldn't actually be flat. Yeah. It isn't flat. And why are planets spherical? In the same sense that gravity pulls everything towards its center in the same way that we're being pulled towards the center of the galaxy. So it ends up round because there'd be an equal pull on each part of the. This is a great answer. What are your qualifications? I'm a sort of amateur astrophysicist. I study in my own time. Fantastic. What do you. What's your day job? Army officer. Good answer that. Army officer by day. Amateur astrophysicist by night, mate. You're a Dan Brown novel waiting to happen. Thank you. You're very welcome. Round of applause for John Dan Brown. I could have done better than Dan Brown. Right. He wouldn't be Dan Brown. Would it be our amateur astrophysicist? I don't know. Maybe we found a new genre of fiction. There you go, Keith. That'd be your first book. James is in Hampstead. James, question or answer? Oh, no. We'll come to you after this. Coming up at one on LBC, Sheila Fogarty O'Brien, this is LBC. It's 1248. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery act continues. I think the only question that still needs an answer is quite a controversial one. A lot of people are querying the parameters of the original inquiry, which was also quite complicated. But Luke seemed like a nice lad, so we decided to leave it on the board anyway. It's about facial recognition and phones and something to do with sunglasses. And if you understood the question, you can ring in with the answer on zero. 345-606-0973 in the meantime, I'll try and get a couple more questions up on the board, because it's only 1248 and we've got about ten minutes left. To that end, we go to Waltham Abbey, where Chris is. Chris, question or answer? Hi, Mister O'Brien. Hello, Chris. Hopefully it will be an interesting question because I've been wondering about it for a while. Where did the two ways of drawing the number four come from? You mean the kind of. Well, I mean, we can all see, but if you write them down, the one that's got a gap between the hypotenuse and the top of the uptick actually looks. It's just. It could have happened by accident, couldn't it? I mean, they come. That's what I was thinking, that people may have gone just lazy and decided to join them together. Yeah, no, I like that question. Two separate fours. Can you have a go at describing them? Because I just tried in my head while simultaneously talking to you, because I'm clever like that and I couldn't. I couldn't find. How would you describe. So describe for number one, please, Chris. A capital l with a line going through the bottom line. Strong. And four, number two, please, Chris. And a number nine with pointy bits. No, that's where I fell apart. I could have done the first one. The second one is like a. It's. It's like a. It's a right angle triangle with tails coming out of both of the straight bits. Yeah. So I used to draw it like that, but they ended up being messy and looking like number nine, so I changed back and that might be part of it. I said, that might be part. They might have decided that they needed a new way of doing the form and people started confusing it with the nines. But I like that. Quite. I'll try and find out for you. I like that a lot. We've got ten minutes. Come on. We can rise to this challenge. Zero. 345-606-0973 James is in Hampstead, so we've got the question about phones, the question about fours. James, question or answer? It's a question. I was just wondering, why doesn't a bigger brain necessarily make you smarter? Like, you can have people with big heads, but they're not necessarily smarter than other people. Are you thinking of anyone in particular? Have you got a friend with a really huge head who's not very bright? Yeah. Yeah. What's his name? Mike. It's not just made that up. I don't. I mean, is it a good question? How big is your head? My head's quite small, but I'm smart. You reckon? Yeah. You can work this one out, then. Well, I don't know. Brain size, it's not like quantity of brain, is it? It's not what? Is there any relationship between brain size and intelligence? That's what we're really asking, is it's, you know. It's not. Why wouldn't it? I don't know that it would. It just seems like a really dumb question to me. But then you're a smart guy, so it can't be a dumb question. It's not like. You're not like Mike. Let's find out. Ah, give up. 1252 is the time. Speaking of things. Well, you remember the caller, Jeremy and Wimbledon telling us about the Tally man? And I said to him, you know when you've got something in your mind, like, and you can't work out? And I said, where does that come from? What does that lead us to? I was thinking of something. I know that I've seen the word tally man somewhere and I couldn't. It's Harry Belafonte, isn't it? Hey, Mister Tallyman, tally me banana. It's from the. From the banana boat song. Deal. No good. Neil's in Tadworth. Neil. Question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Does the queen have a will? Yes. Is that definite? Correct. So what happens with her crown jewels and everything? No, no, no, they're not hers. They belong to the crown. She'll have a will for her personal belongings, so she might leave Prince Charles a nice fountain pen, for example. But not for palaces. You can't be knocking out the palaces mate, because they belong to the crown, they're not actually her individual possessions. She only possesses them as the queen. So she could probably flog them if she wanted to, but she couldn't pass them on to someone because they pass automatically to her heir, which in this case is Prince Charles. Could he decide to flog them? I think so. So he'll be able to sell all the crown jewels and not the crown jewels? No. Because. No, I don't think they ever own the. I don't know about the crown jewels is the short answer to that, because I don't think the crown jewels would suit him. Depends what he wear twins them with, doesn't it? It might bring out his eyes, maybe. I'm 99% certain the queen has a will, but I'm not 100% certain, so I'm going to leave it on the board. Presumably what we need to do is be old enough to remember the last king and then would have been reported that he'd left his favorite corgi to his daughter. Or. Do you see what I mean? You need to have a will if you want to leave anything to anyone. But how much is covered by the will? I actually. Isn't that amazing that we live in this country and there's a story on the front page of the Guardian today, about 1% of the population owning 50% of the country. And we just sort of quietly didn't even do it as a topic. You just go, oh, yeah, yeah. Just quietly get on with it. And we should know who actually owns the crown jewels. Can we sell them to buy food? Sweets? Yeah, that's a good question. Actually, much better than I originally realized. Does the queen make a will? 0345. Thank you, Neil. Zero, 345-606-0973 something about sunglasses and facial recognition. Zero, 345-606-0973 why do we draw four or write four in two different ways? Where does that come from? And what's the last one? I like the last one. Not the queen's will. The one before that, anyway. Brains. What? Is there a relationship between brain size and intelligence? Bartek is in Kew Gardens. Have you ever been to the maids of honor cafeteria? Bartok. Um, sorry, once again. Have you ever been to the maids of Honor Cafe on Kew Road? No, I haven't. Well, you must do. Am I what? Sorry. Are you really in Kew Gardens? Yes, I am. Well, then you must go to the maids of Honor cafe on Kew Road for some tea. Okay, then I will if I must. You must. It's delicious. They have scones. So light, you think they were made by fairies? Okay. Now, did you bring in with a question or an answer? I have an answer. Carry on. For the question about facial recognition and sunglasses. Yes. Basically, facial recognition technology uses infrared light to enlighten your face, make a 3d scan and decide whether it's actually you or not you. Yes. Some sunglasses actually block infrared light. Yes. And therefore the phone is not able to see a major part of your face and it's unable to tell if it's you or somebody else. Of course. Now, even if you wear the glasses that do not block and you can actually buy them specifically for having that type of phone that do not block infrared. Right? Yes. You have to look directly into the screen because phone wants to protect your itself, actually your phone, from accidental activation, unlocking. So somebody could actually grab your phone on your desk at your work, put it to your face, even if you're not looking directly at it, and just run away giggling. The phone wants to protect that type of accidents to happen. So it actually requires your attention and it judges it by looking if your eyes are pointed exactly towards it. So if they are, and if it can see your face and identify it seems like it is my owner, then it will unlock. Otherwise it won't. So Luke was. I thought the parameters of the question were questionable because he said that if he's wearing his sunglasses and he then looks to one side, it still opens. But that's not true. It can't, can it? You need to look at the phone, otherwise you shouldn't be able to do that. There are phones that have better and there are phones that have worse facial recognition technologies. So he might just be unlucky and have that one with less sophisticated ones. But I don't think that would be the case. The basic mechanism is the infrared light. Exactly. Because it isn't visible by human eye. You wouldn't like to have a flashlight blinking at your face every time you want to unlock your phone. So infrared light is being used. It does the 3d projection and the phone determines. Is that you? Yes, no, no, do not unlock. If it's you. Are you looking directly with the intention of unlocking? Yes, no, no, do not unlock. Yes, unlock. And here you are. Fantastic answer. What are your qualifications, Bartok? Nothing in particular. I'm an it engineer. I like to read stuff. And that's it. Well, that's it. That's perfect. Did you understand what I was talking about earlier about cafes and tea? I sensed you were being very polite to me in a slightly kind of who is this mad old man on the radio kind of way? To be perfectly honest, the line isn't very good. I only understood that there is a cafe I should go to because they. But you, are you in Kew Gardens at the moment? In actual. In the actual gardens? Yes, by the river. By the. On that side. By the river. Okay. If you were to go to the other side, to the main exit and turn left, you would soon stumble upon an establishment called the Maids of Honor cafe. Do they park a very ancient vehicle in front of it? They absolutely do park a very ancient vehicle in front of me. I know it. I've never been there. Well, may I take this opportunity to recommend it to you? Okay, I will go there. I hope you do and I hope you report back. I do not think you will be disappointed, Bartak. If I will be disappointed, I will definitely call back. Thank you. Have a round of applause. In the meantime, I think concludes Mister as just the two falls, is it the fork handles that we haven't got an answer for? My apologies, but it did come in quite late and the brains. But I don't know that we were ever going to get an answer to that question. Speaking of brains. Oh, gosh, there's pressure. What was the answer to? Lanky? Hang on, I haven't finished. Speaking of brains, Eddie Mair will be with you. You're a cheese. Lanky comes from lang, anglo saxon word for long. So Longshank would originally have been langashanka. Glenn in Basildon is a student, just as a hobby, a student of anglo saxon poetry. Likes translating it into modern English, I think. I've spoken to him a few times and he's typical LBC listener. It's typical sheila and listeners. She's a genuine inspiration. Yeah, really good. Anyway, I'm back on Tuesday. I'm having Easter off, so do have a lovely time. Thank.