What was the earliest recorded piece of music?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. 1205 is the time. Oh, this is fun, isn't it? Just an hour in which we can forget about the madness that politicians continue to inflict upon the nation and focus instead upon solvable mysteries, as opposed to intractable mysteries. Unsolvable mysteries, untiable knots. Gordian is an understatement. You describe the knot of Brexit. Thankfully, this hour just veers across all manner of genres. There's picking up Magpie like a silver milk bottle top from over there, a shiny bit of tinsel from over there, and perhaps a seasonal bauble from just up there. It's your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. It's supposed to be weekly. Right, Keith. Keith, people can hear you in my ear. I know you get very emotional during mystery hour, even more emotional when we abolish or cancel or postpone mystery hour, but it's happening, but only with your help. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Now, normally, I say quite glibly if you're new to this program, but as you heard in the news bulletin, there over 220,000 people are new to this program since. Since last year. So I will take a moment to explain how it works, and it works thusly. You have a question buried somewhere in your brain to which you know there must be an answer. Okay? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need to ask that question to the massed ranks of radio's most discerning and intelligent listeners. And that's not confined to the United Kingdom. That is true of the entire world. Between twelve and one on a Thursday, LBC's listeners are the most informed and engaged of any radio listener anywhere on the planet. And one of them will know the answer to your question with a prevailing wind and a little bit of luck. The person who knows the answer to your question may be possessed of qualifications so unbelievably appropriate that we elect to award the highest honour that british radio can bestow. Array Liotta. If you don't know what that is, I'm gonna leave it hanging so that you can have the joy of discovery later in the program. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer is to ring in and provide it. Zero 345-606-0973 the number remains the same for both and. And we have. If you've returned to the fold after a few years in the wilderness, like a prodigal son. We've kind of abandoned the repetition rule because my memory's like swiss cheese and I can't remember everything we've done on mystery after the last ten years, or whatever it is. But obviously really, really obvious questions like, well, I'm not going to say anything because some clown will ring in and ask it, but you would know if we've been doing this for years, the likelihood of someone having rung in before and asked the question that you're going to ask, just give it a little bit of a think. There is an archive at LBC dot Co dot, which you could consult to see whether or not your question has been asked before. But otherwise the only thing that will see you excluded is dullness. And that's a very subjective position. That is mostly up to Aaron and Ava today if they think your question is dull, or depending on how committed they are to the cause today if they think I will think that your question is dull, those are the only circumstances in which you would be politely invited to sling your hook. All right? So just accept that invitation politely. Nine minutes after twelve is a time. Should we crack on? Have I forgotten anything? Round of applause. Qualifications. I'll ask you what your qualifications are when you answer the question. It doesn't have to be clever, you know, a PhD in applied physics, obviously that would be great if you're asking a question about applied physics, but just equally valid. So I saw on the telly last night, Jay, just need to establish that you actually do know what it is that you do know. And of course, crucially, the qualifications you provide, if they strike us as plausible, feasible, kosher, you get a mystery. Our round of applause. God, it's the longest introduction I've done in ages. Because I've missed it. Len's in Battersea. Len, question or answer? Good afternoon. Hello, James. How you doing? Very well, mate. Question, first time caller, so be easy with us, please. I've never had a fight or. Mystery out, mate. This is like. This is me being a pussycat for 1 hour every Thursday. Okay. I mean, I'm asking a question on behalf of my seven year old son. Good. We was on a train yesterday, as he's on half term, as daddy duty care, as you can imagine. And he asked me quite an interesting question when we got into the train, he said, daddy, why doesn't trains have seatbelts? And I had to pause and think for a moment and I thought, actually, that's a good question, son. I actually don't know. But what we will do is call Mister James O'Brien tomorrow, Mister Yawa, and he will definitely find us the answer. Well, I mean, you put enormous faith in me there, Len, and I shall do my damnedest. What's your boy called? Ethan. He's here with me now. Can I have a quick word with Ethan? Okay. Ethan. Hello, James O'Brien. Hello, Ethan, son of Len, how are you today? Where did you go on the train, Ethan? Did you go somewhere nice? Where did you go on the train bridge. Oh, fantastic. Did dad take you to the London dungeon? It just gets better and better this half time. I will try, Ethan. I give you my solemn pledge. I will try to find out for you why there are no seatbelts on trains. Have we got a deal? We got a deal. Yep. Can I show you my car review? Sorry, no. He has a YouTube channel. That's where the question derived from. You've been doing car reviews on his YouTube channels? He wanted to talk about that. That's fair enough. What's the channel called? Ethan's car reviews. EJ. EJ's car review. Jay's car reviews. Did we spend a long time coming up with that title? Dad, it's just the initial middle name. I've got to get you an answer now. Turn EJ into a miniature radio star. He's already a star of YouTube. Why are there no seat belts on trains? David is in Hampstead. David, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. I don't know how I can follow that one. You just need a seven year old boy in your back pocket to come on and be really cute and kind on the radio. All right, give me. Give me seven years. Okay, so, yeah, why? Well, when was the watershed invented? And why is it called the watershed? I'll take the second bit of the question. The first bit is boring. Okay. Why is it called the watershed? Is a watershed not the point at which something starts shedding water? So the water rises and rises and rises, then it reaches the watershed and the water will be shed. It's pretty self explanatory, but I don't know what it is. Is it a canal or is it on a boat or is it. So it's a good question. I like it. Why is it relevant to television, radio, etcetera? Because it was a name that conveyed. After this point, everything changes. So you're not allowed to continue past the watershed? Ah, I think we might. No, I'm thinking out loud. No, don't worry, I'm not gonna claim a round of applause for these meanderings. I'm just. Just getting my ducks in a row. I bet there is a kind of, um. There'll be something clever, an answer. Yeah, I hope so. I like the question. I can't believe we've never done it before. Thank you. See if we can get you an answer. Seatbelts on trains. Why are there not any? And what's the origin of the word watershed in the context of tv? I don't think there is a watershed on the radio, actually. I don't think that that list. Ava read me the other day when we were interviewing James Felton, author of 52 times Britain was a bleep, and she read me the list of all the words that are on the same category as bleep. You know, I'm still a little bit shaky after that experience, but I don't think it's any different for Nick Abbott than it is for me or for Steve. At stupid o'clock in the morning. It is 1214. Steve is in lot. That's Steve. This Steve is in Oxford. Question or answer? Steve. Hello, James. Nice to talk to you again. Question, please, carry on. Carry on. Given that food is measured in weight and fluid is measured by volume, is ketchup a food or drink? Food. So why has it got the volume on the back of the bottle? No, but you set your own parameters. If your parameters are correct, then you've answered your own question. So either you've got a question or you've got a statement. You've made a statement. No, you didn't. Let me finish my stay again. All right, that sounds very likely, actually, even on mystery. Oh, God. It's got both the weight and the volume on the back. Right. So is it a food or a drink? It's a food because it seems like one confused condiment to me. Confused condiment works. That was the name of my last band. But the bottom line is it's about viscosity, really, isn't it? Rather than anything else. You're educating me on the sauce now. It is. It must be about, because. So what is a moose? A moose is a food. You wouldn't. You wouldn't quibble about a moose being a food, would you? No, I mean a moose in a little pot. Not the thing with antlers, obviously a chocolate. Even though it's got the measurement in volume as well as in weight. I wonder if there's a definition which would involve water content. No, it can't be water content. No, it's got a. Which is it it can't be viscosity. It's viscosity. It's a food. Your pasty is measured by weight and your milk's measured by volume. Ketchup's got both. So which is it? Food. Well, okay. I don't know how we can settle this. All right, I'll pour you a pint of ketchup and I'll put some for you. And then I'll have some on my plate next to my chips to eat. And we can decide who's most looking forward to it. You drinking a pint of ketchup or me dipping my chips in it. Food or drink? Drink or food. I think it'd be easier to get through the ketchup with a spoon than it would water. You don't drink with a spoon. It's superfood. Or a drink that's a food because it's measured in weight. There you go. You've answered your own question. I'll leave it on the board, see if someone can go definitive. Perhaps the inventor of ketchup. But I think it's obviously a food, isn't it? Sort of conversation you usually have at 03:00 in the morning while your mate's out at the 24 hours garage by in turkish delight. It's 1216. This is LBC. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 it's 1219. Yes, well done. More observant among you, or rather longer term listeners. You're absolutely right. I am particularly delighted to have welcomed one of our new advertisers onto the program today. 1219 is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC where mystery hat continues your weekly opportunity to get answers to the most vexing of questions. I tell you what, old EJ, you picked up a few fans already there, mate. That's some quality broadcasting there. Just. Just how old is he? Seven and 47. So he's 812. Yeah, I'm all right. He's not going to be after my job anytime soon. 20 minutes after twelve. Why are there no seat belts on trains? That's what EJ wants to know. Why is a watershed called a watershed? I know we've danced around this question many times, but why is it called a watershed? I don't know. I don't think we have done that. Precise question. It is ketchup a food or a drink? It's a magnificent short story about a guy. I wish I could remember who wrote it. New York. It might be in San Francisco. Something around the Lawrence Ferlinghetti City Lights bookshop crew. I think about an eccentric guy who used to live on free ketchup when he was on his uppers. I can't remember whether he was homeless or not, but he became something of a kind of figure in that subculture. I think it was San Francisco. But I may be wrong. There's a short someone listening. One person listening to this program would have just gone, oh, yeah, of course. You mean the mysterious catch up man of 7th Avenue by Truman Caputi. But it's. It's not me. I don't know. 21 after twelve is a time Neil's in Stevenage. Neil. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Harry answered. If a venomous snake accidentally bit itself, would it die? No. Right. Antibodies. It's got antibodies. Okay. Well, I don't know. I mean, it sounds unlikely, doesn't it? Well, I've just wondered. No, I wonder now as well, but it just seems a ridiculous design fault. How? I mean, evolution should have ironed out that kind of wrinkle moons ago, shouldn't it? Well, no, if a human bites another human, it sometimes goes septic, doesn't it? So. Yeah, but that's not venom. That's nothing to do with venom. Venom has an antidote, doesn't it? So I presume that the antidote comes from the snake in some way. Probably. I'm not gonna get a round of applause for this. We need someone from the reptile house at Dudley Zoo, don't we? Then I love the way you said venomous snake. I don't know why. Had a certain ring to it. Had a nice sort of almost like a growl buzzing underneath. I've been practicing it. You put your teeth in. You put your teeth in before you ranked. If you knew, I'm very grateful for you to. That was very nice. Very thoughtful of you. I like that question. The kids all like it as well. I forgot it was half time. Venomous snake. If a venomous snake were to bite itself, would it die? Norman is in Epsom. Norman qualification. No, I mean, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. So, for the ketchup question, I don't think it matters whether it's food or a drink. But that was the question, though. Yeah. So of course it matters. Well, not really. You're dispensing a liquid into a container with a fixed volume. It's easy to control the dispensing of that liquid into a container by volume than by measuring its weight. So my soy sauce container on my table is measured in milliliters. Yes. And so, too is the hot sauce. Yes. And so what brand of hot sauce have you got? Oh, here. Oh, it's a well known supermarket brand. Oh, is it? Own brand you've gone for the own brand? I forgot the name of the one I'm using at the moment. No, no, no, that's. That's soy sauce. That's not hot sauce. Yeah, no, I've been using econi or something. Ec. I can't remember what it's called. That is a strong sauce. Is that what it's called? Yeah. Very nice. Carry on. Sorry, where were we? But anyway, you're not telling us whether ketchup is a source or a food. You're just giving us a lecture on containers. Encona. With an N e n c o n a n. Con. Yeah. So it doesn't matter in terms of how you dispense it and measure the weight, but it matters to the person who asked the question, Norman. Well, it's a food, it's not a liquid, it's not a drink. Qualifications? I'm a scientist. I'm not a food scientist, but I'm a chemist. Yeah. Qualification, scientist. Boom. And you didn't actually study during your PhD whether or not ketchup is a liquid or something? No, I studied molecular beam scattering, reaction dynamics. Yeah, I thought so. I could tell from your sort of general attitude. Thanks, James. No, you're welcome. I'm going to give you a round of applause because you're a very clever man and because you kind of maybe reminded me of how much I enjoy hot sauce. But you're not taking a question off the board, because we need to know what is the definitive measure by which viscosity moves from liquid to food? If there is one, it would be viscosity, wouldn't it? Well, viscosity controls the flow and how easy it flows through, so the point at which it becomes food will have something to do with its viscosity, because mousse is food. Soup is food. But soup can be as watery as water, can't. Well, it's ice cream food, yes. Is melted ice cream. Food or drink? Maybe. There is no definition. That's why I'm giving you a round of applause in case there is no definition. All right? Yeah. So ice cream is also measured by volume. So they put lots of air in it. Air in the ice cream to fill up the volume. Yeah. But you're doing it again. You're doing it again with your chemistry. You're just adding information that's irrelevant. But interesting. Okay, sorry, Jerry. Round of applause for Norman. Doctor Norman, actually, round of applause for Doctor Norman. 25 minutes after twelve is the time Pat's in godorming. Pat. Question or answer? It's an answer. It's about the snake, the venomous snake. A venomous snake will indeed poison itself if it bites itself. No. Yeah. No. Yep. No. Still, yes. Qualifications? The qualifications are I bought my daughter, young daughter, a book last week which was the theory of everything. Oh, yeah. And that was the very first thing that came out of it. What if a snake bites itself? Will it? Do we know how often it happens? It never mentioned that. It's just one of these books that sort of. It's all the weird and wonderful facts. Like it? I think we give you a round of applause. Thank you very much, sir. You're very welcome. Make sure you share it with your daughter because it was her book. 26 minutes after twelve, Georgina is in Coventry. Georgina, question or answer? Always a question, James. Excellent, carry on. So very often I go on flight tracker and I see all the airplanes in the sky and there's hundreds and hundreds of them. And then if you look at a satellite photograph, you never ever see an airplane. And I wondered why. Is that true? You mean. Well, photograph taken by a satellite? Yeah. You know, you look at all the pictures of Earth and there's literally no airplanes there and I've just wondered why. Keith is shaking his head. I'm not sure why. He clearly thinks this is a rubbish question. But I'm intrigued. Well, I'm intrigued as well because a friend of mine bought me a lovely gift, if you know, of pictures of earth from the sky and there were no airplanes. No. Well, that's not proof that it never happens. Because for a book called Pictures of Earth from the sky, they would have chosen the pictures with no planes in them, Georgina, wouldn't they? Oh, right. But aren't there airplanes? Well, I presume. I presume there. I think we might be edging our way. I think we might be groping our way towards an answer here because I presume there are pictures where you can see aeroplanes but they're rarely selected for publication in books called Pictures of Earth from the sky, brackets with no airplanes, closed brackets. Okay, I'll find out. Yeah, okay, I'd appreciate it. I'll do my best. I mean, really, the question is, is it true? But that's the unspoken premise of the question. Mark's in Chinkford. Mark, question or answer? Yeah, hi, James, I've got a question. Fantastic. A few years ago I was playing around with one of those flight simulators on the computer. Oh, yes. And I managed to do a perfect loop the loop and a Boeing 747 without crashing or anything. And I was wondering if any pilots are listening, whether they could say if that was actually physically possible or not. How good was your simulator? Was it like a top of the range? Yeah. It was the Microsoft flight simulator. So it should have been. The physics of it should have been fairly strong. It'd be the stress, wouldn't it? I've done the loop the loop, believe it or not, in a small plane. And, you know, when the g force kicks in, you wouldn't have got this doing it in your bedroom on your computer. The g force kicks in. It's like you've got weights attached to your face. You know, the skin starts. So that must. That stress must be exerted on the plane. So I would imagine if the answer is no, it will be because the wings would snap off. It wouldn't be because of gravity or the laws of physics. In that sense, it would be simply because of the stress placed on the chassis. And the wings would be so great because of the g force. Don't ask me why. So that's what we need to know. If you tried to do a loop de loop in a Boeing 747, would the wing snap off? Yeah, basically. I like it. It's a good question. You're on. Let's see what we can do. 1229 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. We need to know why there are no seatbelts on trains. Oath. That's for Ethan. Zero. 345-606-0973 why is the tv watershed called a watershed? Where does the actual word watershed come from? Is ketchup a drink or a food? It's obviously a food. But can we prove it? Can we go definitive? Why do you never see any aeroplanes in photographs taken by satellites? And can a Boeing 747 or a jumbo jet, should we say any jumbo jet? Can a jumbo jet loop the loop? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can answer any of those, or indeed, if you have a question of your own that is begging for resolution. Thomas Watts is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the mysteries continue to be solved and indeed posed. If you can answer any of the questions you've already asked, or if you have a question of your own. The number remains the same, and I'll tell you what it is when I've got some phone lines for you. Jez is in Camberley. Jez, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer about the looping. The looping. The seven four seven, or equivalent. Take it away, Jaz. There's a number of reasons why, in reality, you can't. I'm happy to go through them in one by one, please. The first is the way a commercial jet wing works. It's an asymmetrical aerofoil. So, well, of course, it generates lift by air moving faster over the top of the wind. That does underneath, which produces low pressure, which gives the aircraft lift. Now, because Boeing designed those aircraft to work efficiently, flying normally. The way the wing works is it has a lower angle of attack, because the wing is significantly shaped such that it is efficient and gives lift when flying the right way up. If you tried to fly upside down, you'd have to have such an angle attack to counteract the wing design that it wouldn't work. Got it. The other issue is weight versus power. Simply a jet like the 747, when you try to go through 90 degrees, the amount of power needed to overcome the stall speed of the wing, it doesn't have. Got it. That's not to say you couldn't make a 747 that loop the loop, but it's useless for all the other applications. Soup it up. Yeah. So when you've gone upside down in a plane, or where you see the stunt aircraft to the Red Bull air race and that sort of thing, what they have is a symmetrical air, of a symmetrical aerofoil on the wing. So the pilot has to create angle of attack by keeping the nose up. So when he inverts, he simply pushes the nose, or up still, but down. So the wing, the pilot is determining the angle of attack. It's not preset into the wing, therefore we can fly upside down and all sorts of clever things. Final brilliant answer. Round of applause. In the bag. Qualifications, air traffic controller or pilot. Air traffic controller who studied the theory of flight and the general aviation. Key. There you go. So, final question. If I tried to do it in a commercially normal jet, what would happen? Would I storm or would the wings fall off? If you somehow had enough power and took enough weight out of the aircraft to get above the stall point, to get it over the 90 degrees, you'd probably find that the structure would start to give up, because the wings would be experiencing loads in a way they weren't designed. So the answer is, both the wings would fall off at point y, but at point x you'd probably stall. Yeah. You'd like you to fall out the sky and smash into the ground tail first, if you could be unrecoverable. And on that happy note, a round of applause for Jess. Thank you. Thank you. On a serious note, because I know it's half term and there will be children listening. Do not try to do a loop the loop in a Boeing 747. All right? Thank you. David is in Oxford. David, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The one about imaging, satellite imaging without any airplanes in it. Yes. First of all, you do see satellite images of airplanes. There's actually a website captured and people have had not enough to do for so long that they've been through Google Maps and found loads of pictures of airplanes. It's quite funny about. Georgina was so nice. And I realized when she told me that it was her book that had led her to believe that you never see these, but who's going to publish a book of satellite photographs full of accidental snaps of airplanes? Yeah. Bless her. Well, the other. The other thing is, there's a massive misconception about when you click on the little box in Google Maps that says satellite, not all the pictures you're going to see are taken from satellites, because as you zoom in effectively, you're looking from closer above the surface of the planet. Those pictures go from being satellite images to being aerial photographs taken from airplanes. Of course, yes. Will not have airplanes because they're below the regular airline. And, you know, Julia, Julia has sent me, it's a link to a Daily Mail article, so I may not retweet it. I probably will. A photograph taken from the International Space center in which you can. If you actually. The trick is to find it. Can you see, I think I've spotted the airplane in this picture. But you could. I mean, there's bound to be. It's against all the laws of nature that you could take a picture from a great height and not see an airplane. Yeah. There are thousands, obviously, thousands of them. Yeah. Round of qualifications. Playing with gps for professionally for ten years and doing a lot of stuff with aerial photographs and imaging in commercial projects. Round of applause for David. Thank you. Thank you. Solved the catch up question as well. Well, I say I've solved it, but I think that between them, Simon and Mitch on Twitter have solved it, but I'm not allowed to read out to each. Do you know, big shocks today, everyone, because I tweeted thank you to my team after our pleasant news this morning, people thought Keith was not real. Did you know that? Because it's quite an old fashioned name and he's quite a cool young dude. So maybe it just. I don't know. Why was that? People didn't believe that Keith was real. A lot of people commenting on that. Matt Beaumont feels awful now. He says, I assumed Keith wasn't real. I feel awful now. I told you. Hugo is in Manchester. Question or answer, Hugo. It's an answer. Train and seatbelts. Excellent. It's a two part answer there. The first is to do with physics. Trains are so large and so heavy and have an awful lot of momentum, so they tend not to rapidly decide, we're going to. I don't know whether you got on a train after talking to me or rather after getting put through. We'll try and fix that. We'll definitely be back. Or will we though? Because Joe's in Surbiton. Question or answer, Joe? It's an answer. As to the same. To the same question. This is cruel, man. Do you want to go through with this? The poor fellas been waiting. He's on hold. No, we're going. Okay, Joe, you're here, mate. The moral of the story is, after you've spoken to Aaron or Ava, do not move, climb ladders, change room or in any way compromise the possible strength of your phone signal because you could end up getting gazumped by Joe. Over to you, Joe. Well, I had this conversation once with my cousin who works for the Rail safety standards board, who I think researched it and he said that they don't have seat belts on trains because you'd get more injuries in an accident than you would if you didn't have seatbelts. So like eight times more people would be injured or something like that. Makes sense. And it's because the train will deform and if people are strapped into a seat, they won't be able to move. So that's one reason. And the other reason is they would have to strengthen the seats and then all the people that are standing up and aren't belted in would hit stronger seats and they would get more injured. That's pretty strong. I mean, I feel sorry for the other fella. If he wants to add something to that, then we will allow him to. But you've got and also excellent qualifications. My cousin works for the Royal Safety Rail Safety Standards Board or whatever it's called. Round of applause for Joe. Makes sense actually, when you think about it. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need, if you can answer any. We need a couple more questions. It's very aeronautic flavour today. Have you noticed Martin's in Cornwall? Martin, question or answer? Hello, James. Yeah, first time caller, nervous, obviously. I'm fairly low houred, but I'm a PPL pilot with an aerobatic certificate and I'm just. It's sort of more of a stewards inquiry. Your guy who spoke as a air traffic controller has got it completely wrong. Well, steady, steady, mate. We're all friends here. It's not like we're discussing Brexit, we're just discussing doing the loop the loop in a jumbo jet. And he did sound as if he knew his stuff. All right, fair enough. I fly Cessna 152s, which are probably the most underpowered aerobatic aeroplane you could get your hands on. Yeah, but they're very light. They're very light, but their engine is only 100 hp, is very heavy. He did refer not just to power but also to weight of plane. Yeah, the power to weight is the same. If you've got 150 hp engine in the same way aeroplane, you're going to get more power. So anyway, Cessna 152, very underpowered. What you do is you point the nose towards the ground, gain the airspeed required to do the loop, then pull up into the loop. The airflow is relative to the actual wing angle. So when you're at the 90 degrees, you're still flying. Yeah. As long as you've got enough speed to get over the top, you'll complete the loop and you gain that speed by diving downwards. Oh, I see. Does that make sense? Yeah, no, it does, yeah. Yeah. And you haven't. You have an acrobatics license? No, I'm english. Have an aerobatics racing on my aerobatics. Sorry. Yes. Acrobatics is american. The problem with it is when you get to the weight, when you come out the other end, over the top, down through 90 degrees, you're going to be building up airspeed extremely fast. Yes. And as you're pulling through the last quarter, the vertical to back to level again, you put so much stress on the airplane, you will probably overstress it and the wings will break off. But it would be possible with the right pilot. Can I give you a round of applause? I did not think this one was going to turn out to be a can of worms, Martin, I really didn't. And also get a round of applause. That's brilliant. Thank you. Few people have been in touch to say they've seen a 480s do loop the loops at air shows, but there is the really famous bit of video on YouTube of the guy in the 707 when he did the demonstration flight of actually barrel rolling it. Yeah. So it can be done, but don't try any. Any plane can be aerobatic. It's just. Some will break before others. It's fine. Some of them will break. Mate, you have several thousand feet in the air. You should be so casual about the prospect of things breaking. It's coming up to 1245. I've got room for a couple more. We've done the seatbelts watershed. I thought we'd nail ketchup. I've solved, but I don't know if it's a technically definitive answer to the question. But when I tell you what it is, you're just going to go like this. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1248 is the time you're listening to mystery out with James O'Brien and I. I've got a few questions for you, mostly about watershed and ketchup. I think we've covered everything else. Neil's in Doncaster. Hello, Neil. Hi, James. Question or answer? Answer on the watershed question. Carry on. Basically, a watershed is an area of high ground above a river system that drains into the river. It sheds water. Yeah. So it can be a massive area. So if you get a sudden heavy downpour, there's a lot of water draining into the river and you get a point at which the river inundates, you get a flood. So it's a tipping point. And in terms of television, it's a point at which you can have a bloody good swear afterwards. Steady on. Because we're stopped after the watershed yet. That's just allowed. But don't go near Ava's list. I don't want to hear any of that malarkey. Qualifications vaguely remembered from 30 year ago GCSE geography. 30 years ago GCSE. So you did them in 89? Yeah. Did you? Yeah. 90. Same age as you. 47. Yeah, but I did o levels. I did. I did six a year earlier. I think you did them in 89, not 98. Actually, no, 88 was o levels. 88 now, 88 was GCSE's. We did them in 88 and I did a bunch early in 87. I'm glad mom was the first year for the national GCSE exam. Same age, you know, I used to call it. I used to public speaking turn. I used to call GCSE the greatest con since eleven plus. Do you see what I did there, Neil? Oh, very good. Yeah. Thank you very much. Jacob would love you. He would, wouldn't he? We're going back a while on this round of applause for Neil. Nicely done. Who'd have thought that geography GCSE would come in useful one day? Happy days. Yeah, well, just wait. Someone might ask you about Oxbow Lakes later. Dale's in Nottingham. Dale. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. What is a donkey's year? It's an indeterminate length, isn't it? Yeah. So we could be talking about Brexit for donkey's years. So I just want to know, what is a donkey's year? We could. It's indeterminate length. So the question really becomes, where does it. Where does it come from? Where does it come from? And I think the answer is simply that donkeys live for ages. Do they? Yeah. They live to be about 60. Is that right? Yeah. There was one on. There's one famous donkey in Blackpool who lived to be even older than 60. Maybe 70 or 80. Not 80. 80 would be silly. But donkeys live a really long time. A surprisingly long time. So that's why donkey's years means ages. Why is it not, then, sort of whales years? I'm sure they live. It's me, mate. I don't make the rules, I just explain the arm. I just answer the questions. Donkey's years means a very long time because donkeys live for ages compared to other quadrupeds. Fantastic. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. Round of applause for me. Haven't had one today. Close running. Knock them all off the board and still have four minutes left. Maybe looking at stewards inquiry on the watershed, judging by my text and tweets. But I felt that Neil in Doncaster was very, very persuasive and convincing, perhaps even authoritative. Uh, Edward is in Bexham. Edward, question or answer? Hello? Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Yeah, I have an answer for the catch up question. Oh, marvelous. Carry on. No, I think you need to come down from that tree and then we might be able to hear you. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Staff is in Hampstead Heath. She had a thing. Hello, James, question or answer? Um, it's a stewards inquiry. What, to the watershed? No. Is it? Okay? What did you tell the producer? No. Excuse me. Okay, carry on. My understanding from my school days, the watershed was the point between two water systems. That's the shed moment. That's the point. In layman's terms, you might have said the same thing you've got. If you've got a mountain and you've got a .1. Side of the mountain is shedding to one side, and once you cross the point, the water shed, then you're going on to the other side where the other catchment area occurs. I'm still not seeing it. I'm just being a bit thick, so to use phrase. So, no, I've not got it. Sorry. Try again. Okay, so if you've got a river system that has a catchment area. You've lost me already. What's a catchment area in a river system? So the Amazon river. All the water that feeds the Amazon river comes from the catchment area. Okay, got you. Yes. Okay, so, okay, I'm in the river. The point which the next river starts catching water. There's a very fine point at the top of that mountain range. Oh, so here. Here are a couple of streams. One feeds into the Amazon, the other feeds into the Zambezi. Don't at me. All right. I'm just randomly picking rivers. The watershed would be the midpoint between the two catchment areas. The drop of water will either drop into the one or the other. And if it goes on to the point between the two, that's exactly the watershed. I don't think that works as the reason why they'd call the tv. You're allowed to say rude words after it, though, as well as the other answer. I'm not sure about that particular point, but I do remember the watershed being that specific line. No, it does, yes, because it's dividing two things. So it's a watershed on one side, on one side that way, on the other side this way. Exactly. Right. I'm giving you a round of applause, but I'm not withdrawing anybody else's because I'm feeling very at one with the universe today. Very kind. Thank you very much. Thank you, staff. Round of applause. Look at that, look at that. Mark's in Brixton. Mark, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. Mark the donkeys years. Yeah, it's. It's not actually, um, donkey's years. It's a rhyming slang. It's donkey's ears is years. I did. I nearly went for that. But it does actually. It's a rhyming slang way, is this. So when people say, donk is yours, you're actually giving away the rhyming slang since donkey's ears. Years. Donkeys ears is right. Rhymes with years. So when you say. When you say, I've been doing this for donkeys, it's donkeys. Donkeys ears years. There's no such thing as donkeys years as such. It's. I like. I prefer your answer to mine. I. I don't know. Quite. I mean, I must. We must have done this before and I filed away the answer that I used. Um, right. But no, it's. Yeah, it did. I mean, it just. I prefer yours donkeys. Do people say donkeys, though? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, your qualifications. London boy you are. Bit around rhyming slang. Were you born donkeys? Were you born within the sounds of bow bells, Mark? Not really. I was born in Brixton, still live in Brixton, but it's close. It's close enough if you live on the south. You don't have to be an eastender to be a cockney. That's another fallacy as well. You've got enough problems with Brexit. I don't want to start this war live on the radio at 1215 on a Thursday. You can hear bow bills from the south bank. So it's all this stuff about East End and kicking off now. It's all kicking off now. I'll pass them. I'll send them your way, Mark. We get any, uh, get any moody geezers turning up at the studio. Yeah. So remember, it's this. When you say it's donkeys, it's donkey's ears. Rhymes with years. I'm going to give you around. You can't actually say donkey's ears. You're not supposed to add it because that gives away the rhyme. So really. Okay, then. So if you're going up the apples and pears, you should never say pears. You should just say up the apples. Well, yeah, generally you do, but even apples and pears to someone that don't know, it's still confusing. Yeah, but years and years. I mean, you're actually saying the actual word. Exactly. Which, which donkey's ears is complete boulderization of the rhyme. You never say flute, you just say whistle. Nice whistle, son. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I used to do that when I was in menswear, Mark. I'd often say lovely whistle, sir. Amongst other things, I'm sure. Round of applause for Mark. I like that. Thank you very much. You know, the word television is fascinating for one reason, and that reason is it has a double root. So telos is greek and video is Latin. Very few words. It's not unique, but then you get sort of Harry Potter style enthusiasms where they come up with latinate versions of words that are very modern. I would like to know whether or not anyone is putting in the heavy lifting on finding rhyming slang for modern stuff. Like is there, for example, rhyming slang for Instagram, or rhyming slang for a mobile phone, or rhyming slang for Netflix? All these modern innovations and phenomena deserve to have their own rhyming slang. What's the most modern thing that you can think? Bitcoin. Is there a rhyming slang for bitcoin? Don't go there. That's rude. But you see what I mean? No one's doing it. No one's doing the heritage. It's going to be a dead art soon. The art of rhyming slang. Unless someone steps up to the plate. Tim's in Oxford. Question or answer, Tim, answer. Carry on. Catch up. It's actually. The question was flawed. They're asking if it was go. It goes from a liquid to a food. It shouldn't be. That should be liquid to a dry food or a food to a drink. It's actually. The question is incorrect. Well, I may have ruined the question by you doing my usual annoying interruptions and burblings. The question really was these ketchup a food or a drink? It's a food because you get specimens from it and you don't get any. What's the word? How do you satiate your thirst? You don't quench your thirst on it. You don't. Yeah, same with soup, I suppose. I was going to go for sandwiches as being the key here because you could put ketchup. You can never put a liquid in a sandwich, could you? No, I don't. You can put a liquid in sandwich. You can't put a drink in a sandwich. What? What liquid would you put in a sandwich? Uh, well, a very viscous liquid, like marble. No, I see what you mean, yeah. I should have said drink. You wouldn't put a drink in a sandwich. You wouldn't put a drink in a sandwich, but you would put ketchup in a sandwich. In fact, some would say you can't have a bacon sandwich without ketchup. Correct. Brown. Brown. No, no, no. Brown for sausages. Actually, I have brown on both. I have brown on both. Qualifications, Tim, qualifications. I own a cafe in north Oxfordshire. Do you? How delightful. I do. Round of applause for you. You can put it on the wall. How delightful. And that's it for another day. Another mystery hour is out of the way. We'll do it all again next Thursday from twelve, probably. We'll certainly be doing it all again tomorrow morning from ten. It's 1259. Here's Sheila Fogarty.