Like it or lump it - the origin of that!

Three minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. And, well, you know what happens now. It's mystery hour. If you don't know what happens now, you're in for a bit of a treat. I usually make two guarantees at this point. I'm not going to make them today, actually, no, I will make them today. You will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. I promise you. You have to listen. Obviously, if you turn the radio off and go and stick your head in the bath, you won't know more than you do now. But if you, if you keep listening until 01:00 you will know more than you do now. It may not be knowledge that you're grateful for, or indeed find any use for, or indeed can remember by 01:30 but at 01:00 clock you will know more than you do now. And the second guarantee I make is you will have one laugh out loud loud moment. Although I'm not giving refunds on that this week, because if you're listening last week you had so many laugh out loud moments. But frankly, I'm well into credit at the moment on that. What's he talking about? Well, you ring me on the usual number, zero 345-606-0973 with a question to which you know there must be an answer, but you don't know what the answer is. It could be a who, a why, a when, a wherefore, a whither, a whence, anything you like. Why do we do this? Where does that come from? What's that all about? When I do that that happened, what would that do? And the origin of this and that and the other? Knowledge. Knowledge, knowledge. We love knowledge. And someone listening will know the answer. You're not allowed to look stuff up. If someone asks a question and you think, oh, I'll look that up and then I'll ring in and I'll get on the radio and I might get one of James's lovely shiny rounds of applause. You won't. You'll get your wrist slapped. Because when I ask what your qualifications are, you will explain to me how you know the knowledge, what you have just imparted to the rest of us. Zero 345-606-0973 remains the number that you need, whether you are providing answers or questions. Don't be boring. That's the only real rule that we can enforce and it's pretty much in the eye of the beholder. So if your question, if the answer to your question is unlikely to be of interest to anyone except you, then think very long and hard before asking it. Caroline and Rosie have to sort an awful lot of chaff in order to find the wheat that we deal with every week. And part of that chaff is repetition. You can avoid ringing in with a question that we've dealt with before by having a little look at the LBC archive. Over at LBC dot co dot UK comma, you can see the mystery hour archive and get a steer on whether or not we've dealt with it before. Do you remember? A few of you reminded me of this fella yesterday. Actually, I should say hello to Isaac, who delivered my cardo delivery. I opened the front door, the poor fellow nearly fainted. It turns out he's one of the biggest fans of the program in town and it just was sweet. So, Isaac, I hope you're listening. I hope you're not sort of, you know, carting cartons into somebody's kitchen at this moment in time. Hello, Isaac. But a few people have said to me outside of the studio what happened to that bloke who moaned that there wasn't enough time to answer his question, so he was going to ring back the week later, did he? Do you remember about three weeks ago, we went to someone at about eleven, about 1256. I said, we haven't really got time for your question. Do you want to ask it now, when I've been on hold for a very long time? No, I think I'll ring back next week. Brian. I can't remember. Anyway, if you're listening, sir, quick, get in touch. We'll give you special treatment today, six minutes after twelve. Should we crack on? You got an idea of what we're doing? Have I forgotten any of the rules, the regulations, the rubric? Let's go to Christian, who's in Brighton. Christian. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So my partner, bless her, is Celiac. She has a gluten allergy, has to be very careful. How come she can kiss me when I'm out drinking beer? I got a bit distracted that the wombles just walked past the studio. Is that right? I kid you not, three of them. I forgot. I would say orinoco, Tobermory and I don't know who the other one was. It wasn't great Uncle Bulgaria, but I did hear the question. It doesn't work on the radio this, does it? Describing the wombles. I've got a big glass window next to where I'm sitting and they bring people to come and go, put me like a goldfish. But I've never had a womble out there before. So she can. So what if she had a tiny, tiny little sip of beer? She'd be all right. She has to be. No, no, she has to be so careful. So, for example, there's gluten in soya sauce. So she can't have soya sauce in her. But surely the answer is that the amount of gluten that would be on your lips after supping a pint is so negligible that it just doesn't impact. It would be. I mean, it'd be a bit as if she got, like, a droplet, I guess. However, I think you just wanted to phone up and talk about kissing because you're a pervert. You know, we're getting married next month. Actually, I'm deep, considering how I'm going to kiss in front of my friends and family. You're not going to be drinking loads of beer, don't have a flipping great sandwich before you, you know. But I don't. I mean, surely, surely the answer is that the amounts concerned here are so small that they don't affect that. It could be, it could be. But small amounts of gluten tend to absolutely hit for six. So what if she. What if she licked crumbs from your lips? She'd be out for the count. Would she really? Yeah. The tiniest little crumb of bread and it would actually knock her out? Yeah. Really? Yeah, yeah, yeah. She had to be super careful. Well, then, I've got to be. Right, then. It must just be that the beer doesn't have enough. Well, I'll find out. You're not going to take my answer and frankly, why should you? No, I wouldn't either. I'm just making up as I go along. Where are you getting married? In Brighton or. No, actually, I've got to change my location. We moved back up to Norfolk, so we're getting married in. We live in Norwich. We're getting married here now, a place called Ringsfield hall in Beckells. Oh, lovely. Thank you. Nice bluebells around at the moment as well, up there? Yeah, it's a good time. It's a lovely time to get our spring marriage in Beccles. Can we change it? Christians in Norwich, not in Brighton you shouldn't, like. It's fake news, mate. Hashtag fake news and best of luck with it. But I hope you weren't listening yesterday when we were taking the mickey out of extravagant marriages. Not with your own nuptials on the horizon. Why is it just that there's so little gluten. How can his severely celiac fiance snog his face off when he's been drinking beer? Zero. 3456-060-9739 minutes after twelve Nick is in Twickenham. Nick, question or answer? It's a question. James. Good morning. Good morning. I've been going down the garden center quite a lot lately. All right. Living the dream, Nick. Living the dream. And I've noticed that when I buy stones or cement or sand, it always comes in kilos. Yeah. Which is a weight measurement. Thanks for the heads up there, Nick. Yeah. Cheers. When we bought a compost, it was in liters. Yes. Okay, then I'm not going to say that's a liquid measurement, because you've already told me. No, it's not a liquid measurement. That's. That's the mistake you've made. It's a measurement of volume, not. Not just liquid. So compost is, as you well know, compost is. It will say, will settle. So if they were selling compost by weight, it would be almost impossible to do because if it was wet one day, you'd be selling less actual compost by weight than if it was dry, so. But they sell it by volume. Well, I'm not entirely sure. That's great, because if you put it in a bag, in a plastic bag, if it went in at 25 kilos, it would stay 25 kilos whether it was wet or dry. No, it wouldn't. What would happen to the water then? The compost would settle if it was in a bag. Yeah. You're making more sense than me. Let me try again. I'm gonna have a longer run up on this one. Compost is sold in volume. Yeah. No, I'm right. Because even if you put it in a bag, if it's wet, when you put it in the bag, it's gonna weigh more than if it was dry. So you're gonna get more compost on a dry day than you are on a wet day at the factory. And it's all done outdoors anyway, and it decomposes. Well, working on this assumption, working on this assumption, if you put it in a bag and it's settled, the volume would become less. Yeah, exactly. So therefore it can't be by volume. Oh, yeah, I'm right. I'm just not. I'm not. I'm not finding the words, Nick. No, I'm sure you're right. I am right. I know I'm right. I solved a housing crisis in the first hour. I should. I should be doing compost in my sleep. But it. I mean, the broad answer to your question is, it's sold by volume, not by weight. But that doesn't really help you, does it? Because you want to know why? It would be interesting. Yeah. I'll find you. Sorry, mate. I've been. I've been wasting your time, Nick. I thought I'd get to an answer just by sort of burbling until it popped up in my brain, but it hasn't. And I owe you. I've let you down. I've let. I've let the listeners down. But most of all, I've let myself down. Thank you for your understanding. If you can answer next question, call me quick. Tom is in Camberwell. Question or answer? Tomorrow. James question, please carry on. The origin of like it or lump it. Well, that's a nice one. Might be one for Wayne, I reckon. Oh, blimey. Don't. Don't do that. Don't big him up, mate. I just saw something on Twitter from someone who's got a blue tick. Replied to Wayne and said, oh, my God. You're the Wayne in Basildon. His head is quite big enough already. Although not as big as the rest of him. You're right, because he's read brewers dictionary of phrase and fable. If he's there, he'll be chomping at the bit. Now, the origin of like it or lump it porridge or something like that. Mmm. Might have started off like it. Like it. Like it or lumpy. No, I know. No, I'm having a nightmare today. I'm not gonna get any rounds of applause at this. Why do you want to know? We're always talking about it with Brexit, aren't we? Like it or lump, are we? 1212 is the time. What was the first question today? I've got the compost one. I've got the like it or lump it. The beer. The celiac question. Yes. Why does Christian, Christian's fiance, not pass out when she kisses him? That's the question. If you weren't here to. If you weren't here to find out the detail, that might sound a little odd, but it's because he's got beer on his lips. I just need someone to go definitive on that. I think lex in Southgate might be about to. Lex. Question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. Yeah. The beer question. Yeah. I think gluten is a protein, so there's alcohol in beer, and alcohol is a denaturant of protein, so kind of. The protein needs its structure. They probably wouldn't affect her the same way. So she could even drink it then? Well, I don't know. I just think it probably wouldn't have the same magnitude of effect. So in a sense, you're going double bubble on the strength of the gluten in the beer. Answer. It's going to be really, really weak, both in terms of quantity and thanks to the presence of the alcohol, which negates the protein, the quality as well. Yeah. Qualifications. You spend it better than me. Medical science. I work in healthcare. I'm a scientist. Just say that. Don't be shy, mate. I know the country's not enough of experts, but on this program, we still love them. You're a scientist, man. Say it loud, say it proud. I'm a scientist. Yeah. A round of applause for the scientist. A one man battle against ignorance and darkness that this program constitutes in the context of the british media. We will not be beaten. We will not be cowed. We are scientists. Well, he is. Stuart is in Christianstad, in Sweden. Hello, Stuart. Question or answer? Hello, James. I've got a question for you. Great stuff. Okay, so when you're listening to an lp on vinyl. Yeah. In the. In the quiet bits between the tracks, if you listen very carefully and turn the sound right up. Yeah. You can hear a very faint echo of what's just about to play. Really? Yeah. So it's about. I would say it's probably about 5 seconds before it's just the faintest echo. And you can hear very clearly if you. If you turn volume up, what's just about to start on the next track. Okay, what's the question? So how does it happen? What's going on? It's because you're stoned. Well, this morning. I did it this morning and I. Good God, man. What sort of a hippie. What sort of a hippie are you? Everyone else has porridge. No, it's obviously not because you're stoned. We had legal trading earlier this week. It said you can't libel callers. You do realize I was joking, don't you, Stuart? Is this. Is this something to do with me living in Sweden? No, not at all. I just thought. I just had this image of you turning the volume up really, really high and putting your ear up against the speaker. And the only circumstances in which I could imagine you doing that as if you were off your cake. Yeah, come to think of it, that is a bit odd. However, there is no doubt a proper answer, which I will endeavor to get for you by way of apology for imputing your leisure time habits. Why can Stuart hear an echo? Almost like a precursor echo, whatever the word is, of the track that's about to come on when he's listening to his vinyl. What's the origin of the phrase like it or lump it? Why is compost sold in litres? And we've done the celiac question. I like that answer. 1216 is the time. This mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 20 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. I have a couple of questions that still need answers. Why is compost sold in liters, not in kilograms? What's the origin of the phrase like it or lump it? And why can you hear music on the. If you're listening to vinyl, you can hear music on the. If you turn it up really, really loud and put your head right up against the speaker, man. How can. Why can you hear music on the grooves in between the tracks? Kevin's in Manchester. Kevin, question or answer? It's a question, James. It's, um. It's from my granddaughter. She was reading an article and it came to the fore. What is the difference? And is there a difference between unlawful and illegal? Yeah, there is. And I know what it is. It's the difference between positive and negative, if you see what I mean. So yeah, I can understand the unlawful one because it's. It's against law. No, it's not. That's the point. That's what illegal is. Illegal is. Is. Is banned by. Is forbidden by law. Right. Right. Unlawful is not like authorized by law. Does that make sense? Slightly. I thought it was the opposite way about, you know, where it's. It's unlawful. No, it's the difference between being. Being authorized, catered for. Yeah, that's unlawful. Unlawful is just not. Not authorized. It hasn't. There hasn't. They haven't passed a law to make it permissible. To do illegal is against a law that has been passed. So it's forbidden by law. There's not a great deal of difference. How old is your granddaughter? She's. She's learning. She's going to be a lawyer and she's asked. She was asking me. Being the. The oracle. The criminal in the family. Give you that? It's just one of those things that to this afternoon will be the early doors first topic. Oh, love it. On our mystery tour. I love that. Well, there's a dictionary of law. I think it's called blacks. That's so. I mean you might be able to dig out a little bit more there, because it's not a very satisfactory answer. But it's the difference between something being against a law that has been passed and something being allowed, because a law has been passed and unlawful means that there isn't. There isn't a law that's been passed that allows it. All right. That's as good as it's going to get. The law is. Is that a posh word from the bubble where you live down there? You see these indulging in these borderline racial stereotypes. Kevin, I'll have you know, I spent some of the best years of my life in Chorton cum hardy. Can we give me a round of applause? Thank you very much. That is it. And sadly, I mean, if there's a better answer, then someone else will provide it, but I'm pretty sure that's as good as it gets. Kevin. All right, James. Take care, mate. 23 after twelve. Ian is in Crawley. Question or answer? Ian. Hi, James. How you doing? You're right. All good, mate. What have you got? Great helping. Helping you out today. I think the agreeing with you on the. On the litres and kilos. Oh, yeah, yeah. I didn't explain it very well, though. No. Well, the thing is, like, compost has a large water content, obviously, given the nature of how it comes about. Yes. So anything that is sold like natural product, in that form, you know, compost, for instance, would be sold in a volume form because of the varying water content. And obviously, as you said, you, on a wet day, you might get. On a wet day, the moisture level will be considerably higher, making it heavier. So therefore you would get less product. Yes. If it's things like stones or pebbles and that, or slates, then it would be sold by the weight, because that weight doesn't vary. I suppose sand is a bit of an anomaly, isn't it? Sand comes between the two, from where I'm sitting. Yeah, but it's still. But the amount of sand you get is still the same, really. It's sold in a 25 kilo bag, isn't it? So that's the answer. But it's still not satisfactory. We're going to share the round of applause because you've just repeated what I said in a slightly more impressive way. But why? Because I know the fellow knew it was Nick and tooken in the past, isn't it? He's probably going to squires garden center. It's usually pubs that I use to plot my way around the country, but the big garden center in his part of the country is squires. He will say, well, why don't they sell it in white? Yeah, well, I think. I think the other answer to that is basically whether you're buying from a retail outlet. No, it's not. Hang on. I'm thinking out loud. It's because they're both going to fluctuate according to moisture content, but the weight is going to fluctuate a lot more than the volume. Well, there is that. So, a wet bit of compost. Yeah, exactly. So a wet bit of compost takes up roughly the same amount of space as a dry bit of compost, whereas a wet bit of compost weighs a lot more than a dry bit of compost. So that's it. That's the answer, mate, I don't think I'm sharing this round of applause with you after all. Oh, hang about. Well, you've just. You've been a facilitator. You've just. You've just provided me with a springboard to the answer. I see myself as laying a coat down over the puddle for you to walk across. Oh, that's nice. It's just. Saved you at the bell. This is Ian. Yes, mate. I've got my lovely girlfriend Karen into mystery hour, and she's listening. Could you say hello? Of course I can. You haven't been in touch with me already today, have you? No, I haven't. No, no, because I've got. Because I'm going to say hello to Ian and Karen on May 8 when they get married. I just told Caroline to put a note in the diary to remind me. No, it's not. No, definitely not. So I'll drop you right in it. Now she's going to say, how come that Ian. How come that Ian's getting married to his Karen? Why aren't you? Bet you wish you hadn't asked for this now, don't you, pal? Hello, Karen. Hang on to Ian, he's a keeper. Mike's in high Wickham. Question or answer, Mike? Answer on the vinyl, James. Harry, I've spoiled the surprise for the other Karen. Now she won't be listening. What's the answer, Michael? Well, basically the. The record has got a set of grooves that the stylist runs in. Yes, that's what extracts the music from the vinyl. But when you're coming up to the track, you're one side of a set of grooves, so it's just picking it up. There's just a little distortion. Oh, so it's a bit like being able to. If we were looking for a visual analogy, it would be like being able to look through the wall of a tunnel. You can just hear what's on the other side of it. Yeah. Yeah. That's a lovely art. I love that. I can see that answer I don't normally visualize on. That's a beautiful. What are your qualifications? Don't blow it, Mike, because I'm in a really good place. I'm a builder, really, but a bit of a Musox DJ and singer, really. Just been in the music all my life. And you pick this up before you've worked out for yourself, or you've. Someone has explained it to you, or you just. Somebody has explained it before. I had a friend who had a music shop and he was telling me about the wonderful theory of why you get so much out of vinyl as opposed to digital music. It's a richer sound. It's a richer sound, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's coming back. It gives you more. It gives you more. They sell more vinyl last year than CDs. Did you know that? That's true, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. And I'm a great advocate of that. And also buying CDs, because the artists get paid rather than download. So this is true. That's a wonderful record shop that I discovered in Kingsley. I don't know why I'm telling you this. You live in high Wycombe, but if you're ever in King's Lynn, there's a great record shop. Now, who gets a round of applause? Mike does. Thank you. Well played. 28 minutes after my ill. This is getting into vinyl, which is. Which is a lovely thing to see. It really is. We got time. Yeah. We can squeeze in one more. Michael is in Collier row. Question or answer? Michael? It's a question, James. Carry on. Right, so is there a specific time of day when afternoon becomes evening, evening becomes night, and then night time becomes morning. It's all about the sun in it. Well, I don't know. Is it? Yeah. Obviously, as soon as the sun starts going down, it's evening. When it's gone down, it's night. When it starts coming up, it's dawn. When it's up, it's morning. So it varies every day or. Yeah, yeah. Think about. Where are you? Collier row, you say? Not very near me. One of my local parks at Chiswick House. It shuts according to dusk, so it shuts at a different time throughout the seasons. Right. You don't sound impressed. It's just all to do with the sun. It's all about specific set time every day of the year. No, the sun is there. Sunset and sunrise. And then, I assume. So, with night becoming morning. Is it when the sun starts to rise? I would go, night, dawn, morning. But, yeah, I mean, for the sake of argument, as soon as the sun comes up. Starts coming up. It's morning. Okay, I'm gonna take a round of applause for that, thank you very much. Started so badly. Started so badly. And I was even right about the compost one, which made me think I was wrong. That's why I love mystery. It's 12:30 Simon Conway's here with the headlines. In the last. 1233 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What is the origin of the phrase, like it or lump it? Scott's been in touch. The proprietor of a t shirt empire in Uxbridge. He said, you just said on a. You said, fellow asked that question, you said, likey or lumpy? And then he added, that's what I said. What's the origin of the phrase, like it or lumpy? I said, could it be likey or lumpy? Are you talking about porridge? Scott's wondering whether perhaps it's time for me to think about. Maybe I've been doing this for too long. Yeah. Cheers, mate. You one of the good guys? What is the origin of the phrase, like it or lump it? And that's the only one I've got on the board. Has anyone got anything else on the board? So we might be looking at Steward's inquiries? I just want to clarify something on the celiac question. I'm uncomfortable doing medical questions. I forgot that. But now you've reminded me why. You have a round of applause to an incorrect answer. James, the scientist, didn't know what he was talking about. Coeliac disease is not an allergy, it's a digestive disorder. So skin contact, even lips, will not necessarily cause a reaction, as it doesn't affect your digestive system. My qualification is that I actually have coeliac disease. And to go even further, patchy is one of my relatively regular correspondence from the hospital where he works in Oslo. And he's been in touch to say, my sister has celiac disease. She cannot drink most beers. The only one she can drink, I think, is sole. I think that the woman's tolerance of her fiance's lips must just be a quantity thing. He is obviously not kissing her heavily enough. If he goes over to wine, then they could engage tongues like what the French do without her getting unwell. All human life is here today. Bridget is in whopping question or answer Bridget, it's a question. Carry on. Okay. Well, I'm pregnant, and it's just been bothering me for a while. I don't know why, but I wanted to know what's wrong, why you can't hear the baby. I just. You know, when you go underwater, you could probably hear a whale or something. Yeah. And I'm in my own body and I just thought maybe you could just hear it. But when it comes out, obviously it's really noisy, but you just can't. Yeah. Are you sure you can't hear it? Yeah, I can't hear anything. I can feel the kicks, but I can't hear any noise. I wondered if they even made noises. I, um. You put me in an uncomfortable position. Although, frankly, it's the producer's fault. Not as uncomfortable as your position. How pregnant are you? I'm, um. I'm six weeks away. Yeah. So you're really uncomfortable. I'm uncomfortable because I've just explained why I don't. I'm not comfortable doing medical questions because you could end up. But I think we're fairly safe on this. Or nothing I'm going to say is going to change the way anybody lives their life or indeed handles their pregnancy. No, I don't think. But your, um, the fetus inside you, the. That doesn't have any functioning lungs, Bridget. No, but it's probably got a voice box, right? No, you can't. How does a voice box work? Because air passes over the voice box as it comes out of your lungs. Your baby's lungs are full of fluid, amniotic fluid at the moment. So there is absolutely no physical way that it could make a noise. But what if it could push the fluid through the. No, you're just sounding silly now. I just wasn't sure. It might be making very sort of quiet gurgling sounds is what you're saying. But even gurgling sounds involve bubbles. The lungs. All noise needs air. You need to have air coming. Why are you shaking your head at me? I'm not shaking my head. Good. All lungs need. All noise comes from air, and there's no air. That's the answer. So there's nothing in the sea maker noise. What? I don't know. Well, I don't know how flipping fish make noises, but mammals, yeah, whales have air. That's why they've got blowholes. Oh, yeah, yeah. No, that's true. That's true. I didn't think about the whales because they surfaced, don't they? Yeah, I don't think. I don't think fish, as opposed to mammals, can make noises. Okay. Yeah. That makes more sense now. When things bang into each other, they'll make a noise. So a fish could sort of bang into another fish and you'd get a sort of fishy clang. But you're never gonna get a noise out of anything in a womb because there's no air in a womb and there's no. There's no air to expel in the production of noise. Yeah. And I guess. Yeah. I just thought, oh, it's hearing me. It's hearing my heart and everything, and I can't really hear it. You can hear it's hot. Yeah. What do you want, songs? What do you do? It's been a long pregnancy, hasn't it, Bridget? Yeah. That. Do you accept that answer? You see? You see. You see the wisdom of mine? Yes, I think I do. Yeah. Yeah. I feel better now, I think. Yeah. Because you're sitting there waiting. You're waiting for a little. You're lying there being really quiet, hoping for a little hello or something. Can't wait to meet you, mum. I can't wait to meet you, mummy. See you in six weeks. See you in six weeks. It's never gonna happen. No. Round of applause for me. Thank you. Not even keeping count today. Eliza is in Twickenham. Eliza. Question or answer? Oh, hello there. Yeah, it's an answer on the illegal versus unlawful, I think. I think you'll find. I think you'll find I went definitive on that. I don't think you did, no. Well, no. So illegal refers to criminal acts, whereas unlawful usually refers to acts which are unlawful but not criminal. So, for instance. Well, civil law, basically. No, that's not true. Murder is unlawful, but it's illegal. You would. And illegal, they often mean the same thing, but when you're trying to find out what the difference is, unlawful means that it hasn't got a law that authorizes it, and illegal means that there is a law and you've broken it. No, no, I do. Just now. I do think that's wrong. I'm pretty sure. Because what, you want the good news or the bad news? Well, you found out an answer definitively that it is wrong, since I said on air that someone has sent me the direct quote from black's dictionary of law and I am bang on the money. Okay. Okay. Well, then I. Yeah, okay. Well, then I was told Robert law school, that was the bad news. Okay. My understanding was always that it was criminal, was illegal. And we're not. We're not talking about criminal. We're talking about the difference between illegal and unlawful. Yeah. It's quite a nuanced. It's quite a semantic difference. It's meaningless in law, really, because you're going to end up in the dock for both. But if you. If you talk about. So the kind of law I deal with, which is civil law acts are unlawful, they're not illegal, whereas when you're dealing with criminal law, you. You refer to illegal acts. But that's. I mean. Okay, but I'll take. But they are every. Everything unlawful is illegal in a way, isn't it? Can you get. Can you get prosecuted? Discrimination law. You don't say it's an unlawful act. Discrimination is, you know. So you do say it's an unlawful act. But if. No, because if you're breaking. If you're breaking a law that's being passed, that's illegal, I don't think you should have rung in. I think you're just confusing people now. I probably am, but if you don't describe it as illegal, you would describe it as a lawful. But it is also illegal, otherwise you wouldn't need a lawyer under the legislation. It's unlawful. It isn't. No, because if legislation has been passed, it's illegal. This is going a bit nuts now. Why have you ruined my mystery al? Sorry. Lawyers. Honestly, she's probably going to send me an invoice now, aren't you? Just to add insult to injury, you're probably billing me for this. Got the meter running, everything. Yeah, yeah. All right, we'll stick with that. Stick with. As you were. But that's always how. Yeah, I understand it. I don't want you to start questioning your legal education. But that is the semantic difference between. I knew when Kevin in Manchester asked this question, we were going to have problems with it, because it's not a satisfying answer, but it's as good as it gets. Eliza, thank you. Thank you for being a good sport while I was unconscionably rude to you. Neil's in Hounslow. Neil, question or answer a question? James, please. Like it or lump, it needs an answer as well. Come on. Go on. Now. What's your question? What is the difference between a chicken and a hen? There isn't one. It's serious. There must be. Well, there's chickens and there's hens. Yeah. It's just. I mean, that's the same thing. It's just a different. I think maybe chicken refers to the meat, usually, and a hen is the. Is the live bird. But. But I mean, you also say there's a chicken over there. It's the same thing. A chicken and a hen. It's the same thing, mate. A chicken is a. Well, unless chicken is. Is a rooster. A chicken? Is chicken the general term for all. Yeah. And there's a cockerel. Is a cockerel a rooster? Yeah. All right, so the cockerel is. Are you saying that the chicken is the female hen? A hen is a female chicken and a cockerel is a male chicken. Yeah. So when I have a certain brand of fried chicken. Yeah. No, whether I'm eating a cockerel or a. You're unlikely to be eating a cockerel, but you. But you could be. It's very important we keep saying cockerel in the context of what you're eating. That's why I raised the question. That's your laugh out loud moment, people. That's very close to the wind. Without. Without going over there. No, that's it. So I think chicken, presumably, is like human and hen and cockerel is like man and woman. So you asked what's the difference between a human and a man? Chicken. Chicken. You can get chicken eggs, can't you? Yeah, of course you can. But they've all come from the woman egg. The woman chicken. They haven't come from the male chicken. You can. You can get human babies. Yeah. But only women can give birth. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. All right. Okay. I am on fire today. I need a bigger award. What? I'm not. I'm not too. I'm not too happy with. That's not my fault, pal. They're the facts. Who do you think you are, Carrie Anne Conway? There's no alternative. Facts. That's the deal. That's the money. Okay. All right. Now, I've been all cocky. Now that used cocky, it usually comes back to haunt me when I get this condescending, but I'm pretty confident. I'm pretty confident. Pretty confident on this one. Chicken is the genus. Okay? Genus, yeah, genus. That's it. Did you just look that up? Where'd you get Jennis? No one drops Jennis into normal conversation like that. Well, I'm learned. He is. He's learned. Not learned enough to get one of these, though. I've got about eleven today. Thank you very much. Neil. Ad is in Leeds. Ad. Question or answer? It's an answer. Bring it. It's the. Like it? Olympics. Oh, yes. Good. Oh, that's my favorite question is. Yes. Go on. So the phrase came from America originally and was brought to Britain by Charles Dickens the lump in the phrase have you looked this up? No, I read it a few years ago. Go on then. So the lump in the phrase actually meant Moody in like the 18 hundreds meant what? Moody. Moody? Yeah. Grumpy. Yeah, go on. So it's like it are be miserable basically rather than like it or referring to a bump in the road. Where did you read it? And it was in a book of origin origins but I can't remember what it was called. Brewers. Brewers Dictionary of phrase and Fable it could have been I'm gonna give you. I'm gonna give you a round of applause but my antenna is tweaking slightly that you might look this up more recently than you're letting on adjust. You've been busted and your friends are your friends. You've been busted ad but your friends have given you away in the background I'm at work. I know you totally looked it up. I didn't. You did. I can hear your friends in the background going he's busted you. He's busted. You're not my friends. They just work Holly for that. I know how you feel. It's twelve. No, I really know how you feel. It's 1245. Joanne Webb is both a friend and a colleague and she's in the LBC travel center. Thanks James in sorry 49 fellows chicken questions not getting a lot of love in the room. I've got to tell you the most cretinous question in the history of mystery hour is one of the descriptions didn't deserve a round of applause. A child could have answered that. Give back that round of applause. And a lot of people making the joke about illegal and unlawful with reference to a very sick bird. Come on, this is mystery. Are we set the bar a lot higher than that? Also I've run out questions because I've been so brilliant and answered them all. So we need some more questions quick in the next five minutes and then we'll have four minutes to answer them. Tony is in Medway. Tony, what's your question? James, good afternoon. Hello Tony. Does plutonium have a commercial value? How much have you got? Unfortunately not. I tried to buy some but it wouldn't let me. Plutonium? Well of course it has a. Why wouldn't it have a commercial value? Well, it's only got one use. It takes tons and tons and tons of uranium to produce. You know more about it than I do. Let's just rewind a little bit here. I didn't realize that. I thought. I thought it's just your nickname. I thought it was what misses Tony called you when you were feeling romantic. Plutonium in the house. What? Um. So why carry on then? Tell me why you think it might not have a commercial value? Well you can't buy it in the shops. No, it's only used by a very small number of people who make nuclear warheads. But I wondered if the guy in older master ran out and phoned the guy up in seller field and said oh, we'd like some plutonium. It surely must be costed in some way. I think it takes something like your scientists will tell you 350,000 tons of pluto, of uranium to produce about a golf ball size of plutonium. That's got to be expensive. But when they pass it on to the. So if you got some plutonium could you sell it to someone? I mean you could sell it to terrorists, couldn't you? Well, I guess, yeah. But that wouldn't be a market value. I wouldn't. So you mean illegal, a formal commercial value of plutonium? Yeah. If you costed it out when you're building your missiles you cost out the delivery system that, the radio system, the fins, the bomb. It's clear, you know, it's clear you know a lot about this subject and I. It's equally clear that I don't. So. Right. I mean who's gonna, I mean if you're already fairly well informed on the issue, who's gonna be better informed than you? I wouldn't if. Well it's LBC. It's a magical station, isn't it? Many things happen and you've got, got a couple of scientists, the public. Yeah. Plutonium. How much does plutonium cost on the open market? It is a metal. I knew that. You know what I mean? But it's an isotope so it doesn't occur naturally. And I wondered if. If I did want to buy something. They said you can. Presumably a lot of money. Yeah, very rare indeed. Cool. It is 1250. Pardon? Thank you. No, we'll try. We'll try and get you an answer. 1252 is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC mystery. I continue. So we need an answer to that. How much does plutonium cost? Terry is in bow. Question or answer, Terry. Hello Terry. It's a question. Carry on. Citrus fruits. Yes, namely the lemon and the grapefruit. My cholesterol was quite high. I needed to lose about a stone, which I've gone well over that. And I was having citrus fruits in smoothies and I just wondered why when you put your tongue on the lemon or the grapefruit? The side of. Left side of my face contorts a bit and my eye closes. You do a wince. You do a little wince. The citrus wince. The citrus wince. And why is it always on the left side? Oh, well, I don't know that. Well, think about you having that lemon and that citrus wince. It's the left side. It is. You know, it always goes on the left side. And even when people pretend to do the wince in a movie, they always do on the left side. Yeah. So why the left side is the question. Not why the wince? Yeah. Not why the wince, but why the left side? I want to know why the wince now. Yeah, well, that's not as important to me as the. As the one on the left side. But your question I can't answer. I've been answering too many today. I'm getting on people's nerves. Nobody likes to know it all. Okay. All right. But if you could buy one, that'd be excellent. I'll do my best. It'd be 1259. Sheila. Sheila's. You know, I've got to hand over to Sheila. So what? Why. I want to know what a citric wince is called. But why does that little tangy wince happen on the left side? Does everyone recognize that? It's definitely the left side of the. When my youngest was born, when she. I mean, a little bit older, I suppose she was near to being weaned, my oldest and I used to give her a lemon to lick and then just collapse in fits of giggles at what happened to her face. And she'd fall for it every time she put a little tongue in. Lick the lemon. And me and her sister just think that was the funniest thing we'd ever seen. John's in Leamington spa. John, question or answer? It's an answer. It's just to add on to what the chap said about the vinyl. Oh, yeah. I love that answer. You're not going to spoil it, are you, John? That was one of my favorite answers. I'm going to get a little. Just only a little bit more technical. It's called pre or post code. Yes. And it comes from stress. It comes from the stress of when it's being produced. Apparently, it's because you can get it in the master copy, the actual original master for the vinyl, in the. In the cutting process. And so you can adjust the brick. It's a groove. You can in the groove when the grooves are cut. For in the vinyl process, you've got the original master, which is the original copy that they're all then made? The made. The pressings are made from. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It will be on that as well. Yeah, it can be on that. But apparently you can adjust the frequency when you're producing it to lessen the echo, apparently. Yeah, I get that. I know. I think you're right. You've given us a name for it and you've given us a solution to it, but you haven't. You haven't spoiled the purity of the original answer. I'm going to give you a round of applause from your father. My father worked at Abbey Road Studios for 30 years and when he started, he was a technical guy there and he specialized in vinyl cutting and. Oh, mate, you know, I'm so glad, because I was moving on then and I wasn't going to ask what your qualifications were because we'd already got an answer, but what a lovely bit basis for the story. And did you know this already? As soon as that question came through, I rang my father, who was on his way down to London for a curry night with all his mates from Abbey Road Studios, and he was. The phone line was awful. It kept breaking up and I kept, you know, getting. And finally got the answer from him, because I know he'd know that instantly because it just. Oh, that's brilliant. That's lovely. And an excuse to ring your old dad as well. Everyone ring their dad today. Figures. Those of us who aren't lucky enough to have them around anymore, a little bit emotional at moments like this, they'll be raising a glass. Speaking of people who aren't with us anymore, they'll be raising a glass to the late Sir George Martin, I imagine, at their curry night. Absolutely, yeah. Yeah. So now it's. He knows so much, he must do. And he's met them all. He's counted them in and he's counting them out. John. Wow. Fantastic. And you're a proud son, that much is clear. I've already given you a round of applause. I want to squeeze in someone else before. Before. Close the play, John. Take care, mate. Drive carefully. I don't normally light, hands free. See why Caroline made an exception in that case. These on. Well, it says here you're in Mobile A in Texas, but I think it might be referring to the fact that you're on a mobile phone, Dee. Yes, I am. Yes. Hello, James. Hello, lit. What have you got for me? I've got an answer to the citrus question. Oh, yes. I just had a bit of a flashback moment to doing a sketch of the tongue when at school and marking it out into different zones as to what you taste in certain parts of your tongue. And I think that's probably. I mean, I couldn't confirm if citrus is on the left, but I remember doing sweet and sour, that sort of thing. And obviously you would have quite a response to a citrus. Yeah, that'll be it. I suppose it would denote you did a map of a tongue at school. Yeah. Class, isn't it? I never did that and my parents paid a fortune. What sort of school did you go to? A state school. A catholic state school. Tongue maps at catholic state schools. Yeah. Wasn't a precursor to receiving holy communion. Maybe put host here. Arrow. So there's a kind of receptors on your tongue that detect different flavors. Sweet sources. Sweet and sour it'll be. And that'll be sour. So if you eat a tang fastic later, you'll probably wince on the left hand side of your face as well. Might have to buy some now just to confirm that. Do you know what you should try instead? I had an. Oh, what's that? The new chew its. Have you had the sour chew its? No. Are you a fan of sour sweets? Well, I'm more of a chocolate. Oh, no, don't go near the toxic chew its, then they'll blow your head off. Round of applause. Qualification. Oh, yeah. Sheila, folks, has just showed me a map of her tongue, everyone. So let me have a little look at this. She's always trying to muscle in on mischief. So sour and salty. Yeah, we're kind. No, it doesn't really, does it yet, bits. No. No, because it's symmetrical. No, it's bitter at the top, sweet at the bottom and then sour and salty on both sides. Well, the question. It might say more about the question. It does about my answer, then, perhaps. Well, no, you're right to tell us about tongue maps. I mean, we've benefited from that knowledge, but I don't think it explains why there's a. A citric wince, as I've chosen to call it. He didn't ask about the citric. He did. He wanted to know why he was on the left hand side. Anyway, how your body responds. I'll give her a round of applause. She's never going to go away otherwise. There we go. We're eating into Sheila's with our tongue mat. Yes, that's it for me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila. Footnote. Thank you.