Was the Old Bailey always old?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Hello, you are listening to mystery Hour on LBC, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. If you're new to this, it's really easy. It sounds a bit rubbish, to be honest, but it's not. It's so brilliant, it's even inspired a genuine board game, would you believe? Which? More details later. Someone rings in with a question, we banter for a bit, for want of a better word, and then someone rings in with the answer. And we also banter for a bit. And we've got some comedy sound effects, including one that has been rendered quite poignant by recent events. I'll remind you of that in just a moment. And then off you go. Off we go. All better informed than we were before. And I generally guarantee that between now and 01:00 you'll have at least one moment of laughing out loud. Maybe not literally out loud, because, you know, I don't know, you're not a big out loud laugher or you're in an environment where you can't laugh out loud, but you would be laughing out loud if you weren't in an environment where you can't laugh out loud. Are you still with me at the back? Okay. And the lucky winner of a mystery out ball game is the one whose contribution to the program I enjoy the most. It's a proper grown up competition, so I have to now tell you that the terms and conditions, the full terms and conditions. I should say this in a really quick voice, shouldn't I? Full terms and conditions can be found at LBC, but I don't have to because this isn't an advert that someone's paid for, whereby you have to speak really quickly so that you pay less money for the airtime. I can just tell you that the full terms and conditions are available at LBC dot co dot UK. Who will be this week's lucky winner? Five minutes after twelve is the time. Kate? Tim Borden. Kate. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Okay, so the Old Bailey. Oh, yes, right. Was the bailey ever just the bailey? Is there a new bailey that makes the old Bailey the old Bailey? And how old did the Bailey have to be to become the old Bailey? Hmm. Well, it's actually a very good question. I think it's. It's a street, isn't it? Because big Ben's a bell rather than a clock. And I think old Bailey is a street rather than Bailey, as in. As in an old name for a. I don't know. I don't know why I'm even. I mean, I'm just so old. I haven't got. Yes, I know you do. I know you do. But that's why it's called the. It's a. It's. It's a mott and Bailey. It's like the mot is the. The thing. The bailey is like a wall around the castle. Right? You're not impressed by my prep school history, are you? At all? I even did a project on this with felt tip pens and everything. I don't know. Well, I. Well, I think I did once. That's what I'm trying to tell you, but I don't. I don't really remember. Why is the old Bailey called the old Bailey? Well, no. Was it ever the Bailey? We're only allowed one question, so is that what you want to know? Was there ever a Bailey? Was it once called the Bailey? And then at some point in the not too distant past, they started calling it the old Bailey? Okay, well, let's just go for the old bit. Why is. Why is it. Why is it the old Bailey? Yes. Yeah, all right. I quite like that, actually. I mean, it's good. It's a good question. I shall try and find you an answer. Thank you very much, Kate. Why is it. Why is the old Bailey called the old Bailey? Old. The old bit is the bit in which we are interested. Thank you, Kate. 1207 is the time. John's in Bristol. John, question or answer? Question. James. How are you, mate? I'm very well, John. How are you? Oh, get in there, get in there. That's my man. I took the dog out for a walk the other morning. Oh, yeah? Everything all right? Everything all right, is it fine? Yeah, he's all right. He's getting on a bit, but anyway, aren't we all? Yeah, he did his usual pile. Oh, which I picked up. Okay. Yes, that was going on. A lady went by on her horse. Yes, a horse did a monument. A pile. And I said to her, are you gonna pick that up? And she said, well, no, we don't have to. Yes, you know, take some and put it around your roses. Good for them. But why don't we have to pick up horse drop ins? Well, you have to pick up doctor poo. As is often the case with you, John, the answer is contained within your question. In fact, I'm going to do this like. Oh, I'm going to do this one like Yoda contained within. The question is your answer, John, because you just pointed out that you can put the horse manure around your roses. Yeah. It is not poisonous, whereas the dog poo is. But they're both biodegradable. Well, no. Well, okay, then they are totally both biodegradable, so. Yeah, but dog poo's not good. Why can I be fined for not picking up my dogs dropping? Because. Okay, I'll come at it from. I'll come at it from another angle. Ready? Yeah, go on. Okay. I think it is a simple matter of good society, good behavior, and you are highly unlikely to accidentally step in a monumental pile of dung. Well, if you're walking past a monumental pile of dung and it's been raining and a lorry goes past, it goes all up your brand new Martin Spencer chinos, doesn't it? May pollute your chinos, but. And then you've got to try and wash them. Yeah, but that's dog bites. That's man bites dog territory. That is such a con. That is such a concurrence of circumstances that society has taken a view that it does not happen and is not likely to happen often enough to necessitate legislation. Well, I don't know about that and I ain't even sure it's good for the roses. Cause I took a couple of hours. No, it is. And I came in handfuls. You carried it home in your hand? No, I had a spare poo bag for the dog. Of course you did. And I brought it in. I lifted the roses out of the vase on the kitchen, on the dining room table, I put it in the water, I put the roses in and my missus went absolutely crackers with me. You are a very silly man, but I like you. I'll try and find out what the origins of the legislation is for why there is no requirement to clean up after your horse in the United Kingdom as things stand. Whereas with dog mess, the situation is rather different. John, thank you. Did you manage to get your chinos cleaned on that fateful occasion? I've left it for my wife. I possibly touched them with all that. I'm trying to get them off. 1970s, John. I mean, crikey, man. Division of domestic labor in this day and age? It reminds me I haven't done a woke watch today. Thank you, John. Declan's in Bangor. Declan. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on. You know when you look at maps from, like, the Middle Ages, 1700 and stuff, and they got the UK's like. It looks like the UK, yeah. How did they know what they look like? Before there were planes and drones, did they have someone used to go around the corners of the country? Sort of. Yes. Working it out? Yes. Yeah. Okay, but whose job was it to do that? Did they have different people doing it or was it. Hang on, you're only allowed one question. Sorry, James. No, that's all right. I mean, you would have. I mean, usually these kind of things were undertaken for the purposes of taxes, so you wanted to know where everybody was so that you could hit them for tax. I think that's really what lay behind the doomsday book, wasn't it, after William the Conqueror took over. But, yeah, it's Sherlock Holmes, Declan, isn't it? Once you eliminate the impossible, whatever you are left with, however unlikely, must be. Must be. However improbable, must be the answer. So, yes, people would, either by land or by sea, they would basically draw the contours of the coastline, and that would tell you what a country looked like. I mean, for navigator. It's for navigators more than anything else, isn't it? Right, okay, so in Oz, who did it? It would be sailors. Chiefly sailors. Sailors. Sailors used to go around the coast of all these people. Do you think how much a map was worth? If you were going to try and invade another country or you were going to be a privateer? Think how much a map was worth. I was reading. I think it was in one of Andrew Taylor's magnificent historical fictions, when there were fears in Scotland that Bonnie Prince Charlie was going to come back. The value of a map, then, for an invading army to show you how you got to the big towns or the big cities, which bits of coastline you could land on? The value of a map was incalculable in those days because it would all be hand drawn, of course, before William Caxton's printing press came in. Okay, interesting. So, I mean, I'll leave it on the board because I feel my answer lacks authority. Declan, doesn't it? Is what you're too polite to say. Qualifications, Jeff? Well, precisely, Declan. Precisely. So I shall leave it on the board, but I think the answer is the one that I just gave. Where did the original maps come from? Long before there was the technology that we enjoy today. Thank you, Declan. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time. Why is the old Bailey old? Why is there no requirement to clean up horse moon? And who drew maps before? Aerial overviews. And the rest of it? Nigel's in Tunbridge. Nigel, question or answer? Question. James, carry on. Thanks for taking it. You're very welcome. I've been reading little bits in the press. Dangerous. What's being referred to as a polar flip. Right. Because this happens apparently every few hundred thousand years and we haven't had one for too long, supposedly. Right. And it's saying things like this could render parts of the earth uninhabitable. And, you know, it could be a very dangerous thing for. For us all. So I'm wondering, why would it be dangerous? A polar flip? Yeah. So effectively, as I understand it, north becomes south and south becomes north. What? No, that's Brexit. Well, I guess this is Brexit, too. I'm sorry to use that word. Polar flip. Yeah, I've not. I've missed this complete. What newspaper do you take? Oh, I've seen it online. Really? And what's going to. What's going to. I'm not quizzing you. I mean, I'm just completely ignorant of this. What? Well, I am quizzing you, but not for mischievous reasons. What brings it about again? Well, apparently it's something to do with the core of the earth. Okay. Rotating. And this is what apparently governs our polarity. Oh, right. And it's supposed to happen, I think they say, every sort of two to 300,000 years. Gosh. And there could be one coming up soon. Half a million. And why? Why would it be dangerous? Is what you want to know. Yeah. It would render parts of the earth uninhabitable. I mean, you know, more sophisticated than John O'Groats becoming the most southern part of the United Kingdom. Well, you know, you mentioned John and I'm just thinking about the one we recently spoke to about horse manure. And you have perfectly mapped. To bring Declan into the conversation. You have perfectly mapped the gulf between the serious and the silly when it comes to questions that are acceptable. On misreading. I don't know whether we should be getting the heck out of this country, mate. Well, it's not going to make much difference, is it? Where would you go to avoid a polar flip? You'd have to go to dangerous. I don't. I don't know. The moon, it's. It's. It's rather vague, what. What's being said, but it's a geomagnetic reversal, apparently. I've just read. All right, you're on. I'll find out for you and hopefully the news will be good. Although who's going to be qualified to answer that? I do not know. 12:15 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1218 is the time. Old Bailey house, horse manure maps and polar flips, it's all to play for. Sarah's in Warminster in Wiltshock. Sarah, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Is there a scientific way of measuring pain? Like, you know, the one where the doctor says, how much does it hurt? On a scale of one to ten? Well, is there an actual scale that's scientifically measurable? You mean objectively, don't you? Because there can't be. Because, you know, some people have got much lower pain thresholds than other people, haven't they? Well, yeah, that's why. That's what you mean. You don't mean, you know, from no pain to very serious pain or hurts a little? To hurts a whole lot, you mean. Can you say he's registering seven on the Sarah scale? Yeah. No. Well, think about the bath. Do you share your house with anyone? Do you mind me asking? Yeah. No, it stems from a conversation I was having with my 15 year old in the car the other day. Male or female? Sorry? Male or female? Female. Oh, okay. Are there any males in the house? Yeah, there are. Have you ever shared bath? Oh, this is all going a bit weird. Let me try and read. Have you ever noticed. Have you ever noticed how women can have the water a lot hotter than the blokes? Yeah. So there you go. Okay, so I don't. I mean, I could be wrong. I usually am when I think I'm right. I should write a book about that. But, I mean, there can't be an objective measurement for pain, because you and I would feel the same thing differently, wouldn't we? Yes. So you. That's what I thought. Yeah. Well, I'll put it. I'll put it. Well, I don't know. I'm going to have a round of applause because I'm feeling greedy, but I will leave the door open for stewards inquiries or challenges. But I don't currently see how there can be any measure of pain intensity that would be transferable from one person to another, if you see what I mean. Never learned about it in my career. Well, that would be. Why. What was your career? Oh, okay. Well, they wouldn't be able to tell you, would they? Your patient? Other ways. But I won't go into that. I'm intrigued now. Thank you, Sarah. I could be wrong, but I don't think there are like a Richter scale or, you know, measures of utility. Ben's in Greenwich. Ben, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Carry on, mate. I'd love to know why they're called stag and Hendos. Oh, I knew this. I knew this one. It's come up before. No, it's not going to come. What? No, I got nothing. All right. I mean, hens. I mean, usually. Usually, you would not have a group of chickens without a cockerel, would you? True. So it would be rare for an exclusively female group to be going around clucking. So that might explain why a hen night became a description of a man free adventure. And then a stag is quite a kind of. I don't know. I've got nothing, actually. I've got nothing on this one. What, have you got one coming up? No, I was just out last weekend and was surrounded by about ten hen Doctor Hindus and I was in bath. Oh, cranky. I didn't know that was a destination for. Neither did I. But, yeah, we're surrounded by them and it just came up. Where did. Where did it come from? I'm pretty sure that you might, Ben, have opened the door to somebody ringing in, providing an answer, being asked what they're calling, and they will offer up as their qualifications the fact that this has recently come up on the mystery hour board game that they have very wisely purchased from mysteryhour dot co dot UK, because I'm pretty sure we've had it. And it seems to me the sort of question that would actually have made the cut for the game. But I shall try and find out for you in the meantime. Thank you very much. I apologize for not being able to remember. Thank you, Ben. Take care. It's hens and stags. Where does that come from? It is 1222, I think, for the first time in recorded memory. I've got everything written down correctly. I've got all the questions and all the questioners. Keith's in Worcester. Keith, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on. Okay. The magnetic field question, the one about the magnets flipping from north to south. Yeah. So, originally there was a study done on the plates that move apart in the Atlantic Ocean. And the study looked at the direction of the iron within the minerals of those plates. And what was found is that as the plates move apart, the iron forms in a certain direction, depending on the poles in the center, and you end up with this zebra type pattern going out from the center of the Atlantic, going towards each of the continents. And so that's how we first found out. That's how we knew about this idea of magnetic flipping yes. So the magnetic flipping, we've got this ball of iron basically floating in a liquid in the center of the planet. And the idea behind it is that sometimes because it's basically free floating in a liquid, sometimes it can flip up the other way. Now, the question originally was, why is this dangerous to some areas of the earth? Yeah. Now, my understanding of it is that it's dangerous because essentially you have this magnetic ball that is giving you a magnetic field around the planet that protects you from certain solar rays. And when it flips, this field is interrupted in certain areas and can cause some of those solar rays to come through and harm the planet. It's only temporary, but it can cause some areas to become an inhabitant. Which areas? Which areas? Where should we steer clear of? Well, if I knew that, then I'd be a better man than I currently. I think that was Nigel's real reason for ringing in. He was trying to sound all academic and clever, but I think he's looking to buy property in places that are going to be least affected by the polar flip. I think that was obviously what was on his mind, but so. And any thoughts on what it might happen Tuesday? I don't know, to be honest. We're all booking a holiday, though, Keith. We're all right. Booking a holiday? Well, yeah. I mean, like you said, it happens every couple of hundred thousand years, so we've got a fair way, probably. The way things are going at the moment, you can almost guarantee it's going to happen to us, isn't it? Probably. While I'm on holiday, can I ask how old you are? Do you mind? Yeah, I'm 36. How old are you? Not yet, no. So I thought you might be the youngest Keith we'd ever met, because my Keith is 34. No, how old are you? You're older than him. Yeah, that's what I mean. I was getting confused. So, yeah, you are the youngest Keith we've ever found. That's very young. So, listen, you may not know this, I don't know how much you listen to the program, but we mentioned someone yesterday, a fictional keith, and suggested they were 16 and I received a complaint saying that you're never going to meet a 16 year old called Keith. It is a name that doesn't. I mean, it's quite rare to be a Keith in your thirties. Yeah, well, I was named after my dad, so I happened to be born on his birthday, so they named me after. Oh, wow. Oh, that's lovely. No, I know you're not his dad, you're only 38 or something like that, aren't you? Well, that's lovely. No. And we've got a 36 year old Keith. I'm going to keep a constant record of that, see if we can find you. Do you think you might be the youngest Keith in the country? Has anyone ever asked you this before? I've not come across a younger Keith yet. Loads of older Keith. Loads of older. Not many younger, older Keith coming out of our ears, mate, but we need a young. So 36 is the current record for the Keith. The Keith record. And if you don't mind me asking, I know you weren't expecting any of this nonsense when you rang in to tell us some very intelligent things about polar flipping. Whereabouts in Worcester are you? I'm in lower wick. Okay. Have we had this conversation before? No. This is the first time I've spoken to you and I bet you're not going to ring in again after being bombarded with all these non sequiturs, are you? To be fair, some of your political things, I've tried to phone in on those as well, but never quite got through. You will do. Just be patient. I don't know lower wick very well. I thought. I thought I would. I know Worcester very. I grew up in Kidderminster, so I know Worcester pretty much. I thought like the back of my hand. But what are your qualifications for the polar flipping Keith? So I had a couple of years back in my twenties where I was at Cardiff University and I was studying earth sciences. Beautifully done. Look at that. Thank you, Keith. It is 1237. Tim's in hull. Tim. 1220. 712 27. Everybody relax. Good lord. I always worry about what I might do when I get the time a bit wrong. Tim's in hole. Tim, question or answer? Hey. Hi, mate. It's an answer. Go on, then. Okay, it's the poo question. Well, my understanding is that it's a matter of admittance in law on one issue, and that's to do with the horses, essentially the year, the type of defecation that she's. One's a herbivore, which is a horse, the other is, of course, a carnivore. They were deemed to be two obviously different types of. Well, that's what I said. Yeah, that's right. Bacteria and nasty. No, it can do a lot more harm a dog poo than a horse poo, can it? Generally speaking, it does. But, however, I had to check on this because of the nature of my job, the dog poo. There's no more requirement, actually, to find an actual dog fouling bin, you can just dispose of it. It's not classed as a biohazard anymore. You can just put your poo bags into normal sort of waste on street waste. I've seen people do that, but you still have to clean it up. Whereas there's no requirement to clean up after a horse. That's right. It's bylaws, isn't it? So. But when it comes to the Road Traffic act, there's no requirement for a horse rider to jump off and shovel the horses behind. I mean, it would actually cause more problems than it would solve, wouldn't it, really, that kind of come to mention? Can I just. Thank you, James? It depends what for, Tim? I may be too modest to accept your thanks. Well, I don't think so. I'd like to call your mate from now on as. Because if you remember, I'm the veteran that rang up. I just lost my job and I told you about a few things and we got nearly something, just like 350,000 hits on YouTube with that, mate. But I'm just going to say you made me really think deep about what have you. What I didn't tell you was that I am actually. I told you I've lost my job. You did. But I do suffer with depression and PTSD and I've been really, really low. I've just gone to Universal credit. First time in my life, you know, and whatever. But I do want to say to you, thank you, because you made me think. I've been watching your, listening to your program nearly every day since. Just wanted you to thank you and say, you know, you really did make me think there and you made me feel really better. So if you don't mind, I'll call you mate from now on. Well, I'll call you mate too, Tim. Yeah, but thank you for that anyway. That's the Pooh story, mate. Thank you, mate. What's your qualifications? I'm an assistant dog trainer now and as you're aware, like I told you before, I'm a veteran. I was an arms explosive search dog handling Northern Ireland for five years. I've run my own department and I trialed the first classification of vehicle search dog training in Northern Ireland. So a bit of a mubilist em piece as well. There they go. That's pretty well qualified to answer this question. Yeah. Tim, mate, take care. Yeah, we'll talk again. Take care. Look after yourself, Taobao. You too. Round of applause for Tim, please. Thank you. 12:30 is the time. Amelia Cox is here with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's 1233. Why is the old Bailey old? We've done the horses question. How did they do maps before? You know, obviously technology and stuff. We've done the polar flip. Is there a pain scale? A scale of pain that everybody can subscribe to so it would apply equally? You could say it's got seven, you know, sarahs or whatever it may be, and the origins of hens and stags in the context of pre nuptial celebrations. I think that is pretty much it, isn't it? And I think we've probably got an early leader for who's getting the mystery hour board game this week. Dan's in Finchley. Dan, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. It's to your pain question. Basically, long form. There are lots of different pain scales which we can use for different people. So for your adult population, you can use a zero to ten kind of scale. Yeah, but it's not objective, though, is it, if you do this? Well, pain, you know, part of the definition of pain is what someone says it is. Yes, exactly. So how could you have two people reporting a nine or. Not necessarily. Well, they haven't. They haven't the same stimulus. No, that's very. That's very true. I mean, look, if you were to be super scientific about that. Well, I usually am, Dan. You should know that by now. I usually am. In fact, I'm always super science. My middle name is super scientific. Well, I mean, in the realm of laboratory medicine, all that stuff, you can do what's called functional MRI and, you know, look at the response. Response of the brain in response to a stimulus. But you know, something as a broad brush to apply to everybody, it's very difficult, like you say, because it's very subjective what pain is. It's very difficult to paint with a broad brush, like you said, a Richter scale. It a formal scale. But for everyone now, I mean, for adults, for example, as a very simple tool, we use a zero to ten scale. Zero to ten scale for pediatrics, for babies, for example, you can look at the movement of their arms and legs and whether they cry because there might be different stimuli, but the actual level of pain is measurable and comparable. So I think I looked at it through the wrong end of the telescope because I thought you could punch two people in the face and it would hurt one person more than it hurt the other person. But if you punch the second person harder, eventually they'd reach a point of nine, say nine out of ten, that the first person, they may need to get hit harder to reach it. But it's still. But they're both going to be nines on this scale. Does it have a name? Is there a name for it? Well, there's essentially called a numeric rating scale. Is that it? That's pretty boring. I'm not going to lie. I was hoping for something a bit sexy, the numeric. So really just numbers called numbers, James, it's numbers. Well, the simplest form is a zero to ten, which is a numeric rating scale. And if you look at the big drug trials, looking at the intervention of a new painkiller, they will essentially look at one arm of people who have just paracetamol and then just the other arm who have paracetamol and the additional analgesic, and they will ask people to score on a scale of zero to ten. And once you factor in thousands of patients, everything would homogenize and you could average these scores out and demonstrate in one arm of the intervention of the new painkiller. It's shown to reduce your pain scores by kind of, by two or three points. Got it. And some of the biases of some people rating their pain slightly more severe than other people, but melt away in the large numbers of a study. Now, there are other scales for chronic pain, for example, and it asks you about how it impacts upon your. Do any of them have fancy names? Sorry to sound so unsuper scientific for once. There are, off the top of my head, I couldn't tell you exactly what the name is. Don't worry, you've given us a year. I think this is more than Sarah was expecting, or, frankly, deserved. In answer, what are your qualifications? I'm an anaesthetist with an interest in pain medicine. Well, you would. I mean, surely all anaesthetists have an interest in pain medicine, then? They do. They do, yeah. It's a little bit like saying I'm a footballer with an interest in goals. Well, absolutely true. But then there are anesthes who've got, for example, especially interest in chronic pain. Oh, okay, I see. No, I get it. I get it. Anyway, you've earned a round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. Lovely stuff. Lovely stuff. Thank you, Dan. I'll cross that one off as well. I hope Sarah is happy with that. Dave's in shepherds Bush. Dave, question or answer? Hello, Dave. How are you? Very. Do you know what, James? You think ringing up for the first time is nervous? Ringing up to answer one of these questions or pose a question I think is even worse. Have you. You've never rung in before? I've tried, never succeeded and very, very rarely have an answer. Well, here we are. This is it, then. No pressure. Yeah. So it's going to be an answer for the. For the old Bailey one. Yes. So, as you said, a bailey was grounds outside fortification, and that would tie in with the walls of the City of London. So the grounds around the outside of the walls of the City of London were known as Bailey's. It was a ground of fortification. The old Bailey itself is the Central Criminal Court. It's not called the Old Bailey. Like you said earlier, the street that it's on is called the Old Bailey. The Central Criminal Court actually is a bit more interesting. That used to be Newgate. Newgate jail. Yes. Probably more people were sent from there to be hung in London than anywhere else in the country. So as the city expanded in time, the bailey and as a city headed north, south, east and west, would have been referred to as the old Bailey because it used to be the wall, not the area, I think, isn't it? Yeah, yeah. Outside. So outside the wall, for example, Smithfields. Yeah. That was. That comes from the ancient smooth fields because it was the flatlands north of the city. So there's, it's. So there's all. There's loads of interesting. What's more interesting about street names, if you go. If you go backwards and find out what they used to be called. I'm not going to name any. Don't name that one. I know which one you're thinking about. Let us say that there might have been a little alleyway somewhere where you could bump into a lady of the night and it would be named accordingly, referencing perhaps a body part, for example. That's what you're thinking of, you dirty beggar. Possibly. But there's many, many like that. But that's the. Like I said, many people think the old Bailey is the actual court itself, but it's not. It's just the name of the street because it's where the Bailey used to be. I'll go. Old Bailey qualifications. I'm going to guess that you are either to be found on the top of an open top bus with a microphone in your mitts, or you are a black cab driver. I'm a black cab driver that sometimes likes to pass on little bits of knowledge, because reading and learning is not a bad thing to do. But I can't say further than that. A round of applause for Dave. Thank you very much. Great work, mate. Lovely stuff. 1240 is the time. And you get things like cut past lane, which is a little bit more manageable, where all the pickpockets used to hang out and stuff like that. Nell is in Dublin. Nell, question or answer? Hi. Hi, James. That's a question, by the way, I listen to you religiously. That's very kind of you. Thank you. I'm over next week, actually. Great stuff. The dorky book, February. You never know your luck. Well, I never know my luck. I'm in dorky for the book festival, which is always an extremely good weekend. I think it's next weekend. Anyway, question answered now. Okay. Question is. And by the way, this is me asking the question, okay. And he's saying, how come the sun can burn in, uh, space in a vacuum where there's no oxygen? Yes. How can it burn? What. What is burning? That's a very good question. I mean, it's probably not burning in the sense that we think it is, is it? Or. I don't. Well, I don't even know why I'm talking. Nell, I'm not gonna lie to you. So let's find out. How old's your nephew? Six. Flipping egg. He's a clever lad, isn't he? And I. Yeah. And I feel like I should be able to answer the question. You will soon. And then you can go back to him and pretend that you just worked it out by looking at the sun or something like that. Ah, yes, lad. I look forward to it. Well, so do I. Thank you, Nell. And thank you for the kind words. They are appreciated. 1241 is the time. Yes. That old Bailey won. It was Kate who asked it, Dave who answered it. Sarah asked about pain, and Dan answered it. Josh Sinkanik. Josh, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, mate. So the year is 2022 in the year 20? Yes. Obviously it's that day because it's based around the life and death of Jesus Christ. But if you're not religious or if you follow a different religion, why do we still agree that it's 2022? Well, I mean, how nuts would it be if we didn't? I mean, it wasn't always like this. It didn't start with Jesus, I don't think. The B c ad, which doesn't even apply anymore, they call it the common era now, don't they, to keep christians out of it. So I think it just spread so quickly and so far through missionaries and military adventures, that there comes a point where you have to agree on. Haha. You have to have a regulatory framework, and the more people that subscribe to the same regulatory framework, the more easy life becomes for everybody, which. And I bet you didn't think I'd be able to bring Brexit into this. It's why electing to remove yourself from a regulatory framework in which all of your closest neighbors still exist is an act of absolute madness. So it's just consensus, I think. And there are still civilizations that don't. I bet North Korea. I bet it's not 2022 in North Korea and a few other countries. Exactly. Yeah. So, you know, is there parts of the world where all religions where people just completely disagree that 2022? Yes, there are. I forget which, but there are. So, I mean, listen, I'm pretty sure that's right. I'll leave it on the board. But it will just be. And remember, we're in the west. We're in very much part of the Judeo christian tradition, so it's no great mystery that every country in the western world would subscribe the same years. And then it wasn't long after adopting it that we all went off and invaded and conquered. I'm sorry. Massively improved and enhanced the experiences of people living in the east so that. So that we probably took it with us. We took time and dates with us. Regulatory frameworks. I'll leave it on the board in case there's a cleverer answer, Josh, but I think that covers it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Lovely stuff. 1244 is the time. Dorothy is in Westwood. Ho. With an exclamation mark. Dorothy, question or answer? We're special. We have that mark. I know. It is a question. Please, James. Yes. It has to do with art and depicting the human form. Okay. And, yeah, I kind of wondered why the ancients were able to create such beautifully proportioned sculptures. Yes. But it wasn't until the Renaissance that we could do the same. Sorry, I was running up the stairs. Why? Just relax. Everything's fine. Busy. That we weren't able to create the same with painting and drawing. There's a certain part of human development that made sculpture easier then. And then we didn't catch up until the Renaissance with painting. That's a brilliant question. I mean, in terms of culture and intellect. It's not up with John's question about horse poo, but it is nonetheless, a very, very erudite inquiry. Dorothy. Oh, unless they were drawings of horse poo. I'm thinking technology, bizarrely. But that. I mean, really, if you've got. No. Because if you've got a pencil. Some people can draw astonishingly detailed paints back in ancient Egyptian. No, I know, I know, I know. That's what I mean by thinking out loud and being stupid, because it's got nothing to do with that. I mean, you had, you had hieroglyphs, as you point out, but equally, all you need is a stone on a stone, really. And now someone could get a 3d, essentially three dimensional image with just a pencil and a piece of paper, couldn't they? So you should be able to do it on sandwich. Well, and I know there are different mediums and different, different skills between sculpture and painting, but why did one develop so much earlier than the other? Incredible question. I'll be amazed if we get an answer to it. But, you know, we got to have faith. We've got to have faith, Dorothy. Okay, well, let's find out. Why did it take so long after sculptures were, you know, the very similitude of a sculpture is breathtaking. But until the Renaissance era, paintings looked a little bit like your six year old nephew had done them. Not all of them. But you take the .03,456,060,973 is the answer that you need. 1246 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1249. Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? I think I took Keith by surprise there by coming to the call. So is Andy gone? Is it? Where? Up. Okay, we'll back to Andy shortly. Marcus is in Westminster. Marcus, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Marcus. Well, the question was how can the sun be burning if there's no oxygen? Indeed it was. And in fact, in the 19th century, people did think the sun was a giant lump of coal. Of course, they couldn't figure out where the oxygen would come from, but when they calculated how long the sun would burn as a lump of coal, it was only 5000 years. So not even enough for Archbishop Usher, who bought, I think he thought the, the sun and the earth were born in, I think, 4004 BC. Yes, I think he's right. Is he not running for the republican party at the next election or is it in Northern Ireland? Sorry, carry on. About a million times older, about 5000 million years old. So that tells you that whatever is powering the sun is an energy source about a million times more concentrated than coal. Wow. And in the 20th century, we discovered an energy source and it's nuclear energy. So the sun is fusing hydrogen, the lightest element, into helium and the byproduct is sunlight. And there it is. So there's no. No. So the hydrogen is necessary, but not heat, not oxygen? Not oxygen. It's just about the most inefficient nuclear reaction you can imagine. So if you imagine. I'm not going to lie to you, Marcus, I can't really imagine any nuclear reaction. If you imagine your stomach and of the sun the same size and shape as your stomach, your stomach is generating heat at a greater rate than the sun. Blimey. Now, I understand exactly what you mean, which makes me intrigued to know what your qualifications are. I'm a writer, but I was also a radio astronomer at Caltech in California. You've been on this trail before. I have. I've been on it before. And demonstrated your expertise previously. Yeah. And it's because the sun has. It uses this unbelievably inefficient nuclear reaction that it takes 10 billion years to burn its fuel. And there's been enough time for the evolution of complex life. Like you and me, James. Fantastic. Well, like you, at least. Round applause for market. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Beautifully done. Do you want to plug any books or anything like that? My latest book is called Breakthrough and it's published by Faber and Faber, so that would be wonderful. Marcus Chowne, who's too modest to tell you that, but I shall do it for him. Thank you, Marcus. Always a pleasure. Also worth following on Twitter as well. 1252 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Anthony is in Blackpool. Good afternoon, James. Hello, Anthony. Question or answer? As I understand it, the Renaissance question. Yes. As I understand it, the question revolves around what. What led to the increased accuracy of depictions in three dimensional figurative painting? I think that was it, yeah, pretty much. The answer, resoundingly, is the advent of the camera obscura. Why? Because. Oh, so for the flatness of it. It's the flatness of it as opposed to the sculpture, isn't it? But before paint, before putting the brush on the canvas, they'd use a camera, obscure. Get the figures in front of the. You know, this would all be behind a black screen, but then they would prick out the outline. Now, this is why, for example. And then they would paint it. But they don't need to do that now. People have developed the faculty to do it without. Go on. Because they got. Because they've got the camera that became outmoded. But at that point, that was a historic leap. So prior to that, the human brain was incapable of conceiving of a. You've got it. Are you familiar with the painting the marriage feast of the Arnolfini, there's a wonderfully elaborate light fitting above them and that will be impossible to depict or incredibly difficult to depict accurately because of the play of light on it. Okay. One of the outcomes of this change. Yeah. Is that you see in paintings of this period, up to, say, the impressionistic period from the early Renaissance period, you'll see characters holding glasses in their left hands. You will. An unusually, an unusual majority, of course, the camera obscura has reflect. It has flipped it. Yeah, well, I never. Yeah, fascinating stuff. What are your qualifications, then? My qualification? I've written this off David Hockney. Have you? There was a fascinating documentary, I don't know, it was 15 or 20 years ago, where David Hockney went through this. It was impossible to paint with the realism which we are now familiar with prior to this use of the technology. And then he's also produced a book which I have glimpsed at. Well, there you go, the powers of reading coming through thick and fast on mystery hour this week. Anthony. Quite fascinating, isn't it? I'm going to find out more about it now. A round of applause. Randy. Cool. Cool yourself back to Andy and Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Afternoon, James. Answer to your question, also from Tunbridge, I think, on the early mapping. Yes. So you're right that prior to the ordnance Survey, the only way really, this could have been done would have been, as you say, through sailors going around the coastline and doing it best by eye. So under, after the jacobean uprising of 1740, something or other, the government commissioned the. It was the jacobian upright. Was that sort of bang on the right period? Sort of, yeah. So obviously the ordinance Survey is named after the fact that it was based around the military ordinance being another word for weapons or for. Yes, exactly. So, again, for the purposes of understanding how you would end up fighting wars, you needed to have good mapping. And so the Ordnance Survey came into existence in 1791, and the first thing that the Ordnance survey were charged with doing was undertaking a much better mapping exercise of the country through triangles. This is where they did something called the principal triangulation of Great Britain, and that was done using the measurements of angles between all of these different triangles. And if you actually walk the countryside now, you'll still see what's called trigonometric stations, and they're dotted about all over the hillsides and throughout the country. Most of them are much more modern ones. Most of them were done as the second triangulation. That was a much later exercise. But the first thing that had to be done in order to help with the facilitation of that triangulation was understanding the. The length of a baseline. And part of this is underpinned by something called the hounslow baseline. And across Hounslow common they measured using with 100 foot. I think it was metal chains appear. A section of that across the common. Right. And so by. But you'd still. You'd need to travel around a lot, wouldn't you, with your triangle, so to speak. Right. But the triangulation would give you very, very accurate results as opposed to the naked eye and a pen. Yeah. And by having stations that are near the coastline, obviously, you can then get a really good approximation of the coastline and the rest of it would have just been done by walking out and mapping it. Have we done this before, you and me? Not this. Not this question. But we've had similar questions because I know what your qualifications are. It's a bit weird, this. I'm going to say, what are your qualifications? You're going to say I did a degree in cartography. Yeah. And I was actually work for the a to z for eight years as well, so, yeah, I should have a joke ready for that, shouldn't I? Probably. I mean, if you say I work for the a to z, I should say, oh, well, in that case, you mustn't have nothing. I didn't do the knowledge. I'm losing my touch. If it was. If it was 1058 and I was still bright eyed and bushy tailed, I'd have come in with a gag there. But it's 1258 and so I've got, I've got. No, I used to work for the a to z. No, nothing at all. Sorry, mate. How many rounds of applause have you won now over the years? Hans low. Heath. Not Hans low. Common. Just to be pedantic, isn't it? Hounds. Yeah. Heath. Oh, yeah. You have to. Yeah. I haven't looked. Yeah. It's my manner. It's my manor, Andy. It's my turf. Cool. It's my manner. How many rounds of applause? Is applause what I think. Good. Maybe we should keep. Do we have a league table? I can tell you the youngest Keith who's ever phoned the program is Keith. Thank you. Cheers, James, the round of applause for you. That one was for me. Yeah. Love to the family. Cheers. Thank you, Colin. Oh, dear. I'm giving the box no surprises. This week's free copy. Free copy. This week's mystery, our board game, which is available at mysteryad Dot co dot Uk, is there wine in that cup goes to, I guess happens on Thursdays. Occasionally it goes to Tim Inhal with my compliments and my gratitude for some very moving words earlier in the program. And I hope you have hours of fun with your mystery outboard game, Tim. I really do. Here's Sheila. I know you mean I sometimes get a bit stammering in the last ten minutes of the program. It's like, no, I've run out of words, and now I just go, well, fortunately, it's the beginning of the program, so we're not there yet. Thank you, James.