Can we have Mystery Hour on a Friday?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time. And indeed it is mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. Do you think I could do that? You know, when they say if you chop a chicken's head off, it carries on running around the farmyard for a while because the message hasn't reached the nervous system that the brain is no longer attached? If that happened to me, do you think I could do that line? I've issued it so fluently for so long now, I hope we'll never find out. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. What does that mean, James? In layman's terms? Well, it means you've got a question bubbling away in the back of your brain and somebody else listening to the program will know the answer. It could be a who, a why, a what, a where, a whence, a whither, or even the occasional wherefore. The only rule is really that whoever you are lucky enough to speak to when the phone is answered has to think your question is interesting. That's all. And then if you hear someone ask a question, you know the answer to fill your boots, ring in and answer it. No one's allowed to look anything up. Okay? No one is allowed to look anything up. That's the only real rule. We try to guard against dullness and increasingly less so against repetition. My short term memory is not what it used to be. My long term memory is increasingly wholly so. Attempts by me in the early days of this radio feature to guard against questions coming around again have more or less fallen by the wayside. If you've got a question, it's the first time we've done it on a Thursday in a fortnight. This, you know, we postponed it last week for reasons of important national news. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I'll ask what your qualifications are if you answer a question, and that doesn't mean you have to bring out your bagger gymnastics award, grade four. It simply means you have to explain how you know what it is you've just told us. So it could be that you read it in a book, but you need to give us a little bit of detail. Or you might be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, which is indeed the title that our most regular mystery act contributor revels in. I think that pretty much covers it, doesn't it? Should we crack on? I'll just consult with Keith. What do you think, Keith? Should we go? Yeah, we're good to have. I've forgotten anything. Oh, yeah. No motoring questions. Although even that, as I age, is beginning to crumble a little bit under the weight of my encroaching senility, I do occasionally find myself caught up in conversations about motoring related issues while I'm actually not falling asleep, so maybe even that. But don't ring in and say, there's a roundabout near me and you're not allowed out on exit three. Do you know where it leads? Don't ring in. And it wouldn't even be funny for you to ring in and do that. So that kind of motoring question, should we just crack on? I often feel I do too much rules and regulations, when really what you want to do, you just want to see the rabbit, right? Should we let the dog see the rabbit, so to speak? Six minutes after twelve is a time Richard is in Switzerland. Richard, good afternoon. Question or answer? Hello. It's a question. Carry on. There's a roundabout near me. I just knew it. I knew it. Carry on. Right, I'm cutting off the next person who does that. I'll let you stay, but everyone else henceforth. It's a straight red carry on. It's about international trade. It's a bit of a random. Well, not really that random when we're talking about a billion. So, for example, 2 billion government spending plan, is that a british billion or is it a US billion? Obviously in our country, you'd probably expect it to be british. Then when you're talking internationally, where's the common ground? Which one. Which one is used? Oh, I see what you mean, because obviously a UK billions. Quite a lot less than. Yeah, I think. Can I have a crack at framing the question in an even more fruitful way? Yeah, because I presume if you're seeing a figure in pound sterling, then it's going to be a UK billion. Yeah, yeah. But if you see it in dollars, is it an american billion? In which case we're having two completely. I mean, there's no way we are. You see, America announces $10 billion of trade and normally you'll then see that's equivalent to 8 billion in. In pounds. Yeah, but it's been a gray area, isn't it? I don't. I doubt it is, but it is for you and me. But. But I very much doubt that there is much grayness when you actually come to the great big markets. You'd hope so, wouldn't you? But you're in Switzerland. This is the financial center of the universe. Surely you should know this stuff. Yeah. We've got the same Google as we have in the UK, though. That's how it works. So someone will know when we talk about massive international trade figures. In the billions. Is it a thousand million or a million million? I presume it's all in british billions, but I don't know. So I'm not going to treat myself to a cheeky round of applause. Thank you, Richard. Eight after twelve. Sophie's in Stoke on Trent. Sophie, question or answer? No question, please carry on. Well, my son was asking last night, he said, how do we learn accents? And I thought, that's quite easy, isn't it, because it's just environmental. But then we changed into, how did regional accents develop in the first place? I think. I think the answer might be the same. How old is your boy? He's 13 now. Yeah. My 13 year old is absolutely fascinated with this as well, and I try to show her because I kind of. I used to think I was really good at accents. It's one of the many delusions of which I've been robbed as I've got older. But the black country where we grew up, the pottery is where you are now. The accent is going to be, in part, informed by. By the scale of industry. I genuinely think this. So if I go for a full on black country accent like that, it's got a blocked nose flavor to it, hasn't it? Because. Because people weren't breathing through their noses, because there was so much smog and pollution in the air. That's one of my theories. But then you head up to the northeast, you know the way I man, and you'd have some sort of influence from. But then I'd say you'd have influence from Scotland, because Scotland's a little bit further north and your 13 year old. And my 13 year old will say, yeah, but where did the Scots get their actions from? Yeah, I love that question. I don't know if there is an answer, but if I had my time again, Sophie, this is what I do a PhD thesis in at university. I do. I just find it utterly, utterly fascinating. And why. So who did we. I met someone yesterday with, who's a friend of mine who I had no idea. Her mum has a strong northern irish accent and she doesn't have any. Any sense, any semblance of a northern irish accent at all. And yet growing up with her mum. It's what she would have heard every day. And french people can have lived here for 50 years. There's a french teacher in Kidderminster, one of my mum's mates. She's been there 50 years. She sounds like she just stepped off the boat yesterday. Other people have no semblance of an accent at all when they speak English. All these things are interesting, but we will focus on your 13 year old's question, which is, how did regional accents develop? Thank you. Thank you, Sophie. And for the record, the accent in your part of the world, in the potteries and in Nottinghamshire and around there as well, is my favourite in the country. 1210 is the time. Steve is in Sheffield. Steve, question or answer? Phone line problems. But let's see how we get on. Go on. Safety case the engine catches fire. In case the engine catches fire. How is that going to make a difference, though? Well, you can see it every single one of the planes from the front row to the back row. Yeah, I can't. I can't hear the phone line. Sadly. I don't know quite what happened there. I leave it on the board. But if I understood what you were saying, I think we've done it before. And the answer, very simply, is that they need to be able to see the wings. No, Keith's not impressed. All right. What do you think it is, then? Clever clogs? Keith's got nothing. 1211 is the time. Julia is in. Oh, I better just say hello to Sam. Sam gets a bit upset if I mention Keith too often. Julia is in Newton, Massachusetts, in the United States. Julia, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. My question is, I've often noticed that when music is played softly, it sounds out of tune. So I was wondering why. Really? Yes. Do you reckon I don't know that you play music by softly? You mean quietly? Yeah. Like when it's played out of my phone and the volume isn't high enough that I can hear it properly, it sounds out of tune. Really? Yeah. Have you checked with anyone else whether they have? I have, actually. No, I'm not being facetious. I mean it. And they agree with you, do they? Because I thought it might be a very personal condition. No, I thought it was as well. And I've asked some other people and they've noticed the same thing, so. How? Thought I'd ask. How bizarre. Well, I've got. I've got a bit of music on my phone at the moment. Should we experiment with it or not? Sure. No. No. What? I. Yes. Go right ahead. Okay, let's see what I've got playing on Spotify. And then I go quietly. That's. That's James, isn't it? Sit down, then. Okay, that's it. Now. Otherwise we have to start paying royalties. I don't recognize what you describe, but I will. I'll leave it on the board and we'll find out. Is there. So, first of all, is there a relationship between how tuneful something sounds and the volume it is played at? And if so, why? I love today's questions. 1213 is the time. Simon is an exeter. Simon. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. So, oranges arrived in England in the 15th century, and we named the colour orange after them. How do you know that? How do you know that? So that's just Wikipedia'd. Is this? So, then? Yeah, it is. When was William of orange? Well, exactly. So my question is, what did we call orange? Things like carrots before the fruit arrived and we named the color after carrots are a bad example because they were purple until the sort of mid 18th, early 19th century. Okay, so if we took a 14th century English. What did we call orange? Donald. Donald Trump. What would he call him? Yeah. We need to clarify the parameters of your question. So we only started calling things orange after the fruit. The orange became commonplace in Britain. Right. That's your contention? And that's. And that's round about the 15th century. So what. What would orange things have been called before that? But they're just like Russet or, you know, pale red or something like that? Well, I mean, I don't know why? It's a mystery. I don't know. Do you think there's a word that you and me don't know? There's, like, another word for orange? Yeah. We need a linguist. Sunny. Sunny. Sunny. Sonny. Sonny. I'll see what I can do. I like that. Orange is a fascinating word for a variety of reasons, many of which currently elude me, but there is at least one of them. 1214, coming up to 1215. What have we got? You see, I didn't have a pen to start with, so we're going to have to do this from memory. Orange billions. When we talk about trade and international finance, are we talking about american billions, which are a million million or british billions, which are a thousand million? That's a really easy round of applause there for someone. What do we call orange stuff? Before we discovered oranges, where do regional accents come from? Oh. And then why do they have to lift up the shutters? On a plane. Plane windows, oranges, regional accents, billions. And does music really sound less tuneful as you lower the volume? 1215 is the time mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 318 minutes after twelve is the time I'm going to do something we don't often do on mystria. But there's some quite big news from the bank of England, which I think we shall summon our political editor to discuss with us. However, I am in a different studio today. The horn isn't work. I haven't got my horn this morning, so I shall summon Theo Oshawood without any comedy sound effects. And as if by magic, here he is. I've appeared. The bank of England has just published its inflation report for August of this year. Of course, this is the report where it details exactly what it's going to do with interest rates, which currently stand at 0.75%. The bank of England has decided to keep the interest rates at 0.75%, but more importantly, it has revised its growth forecasts now. For 2019, predicted growth stood at 1.5%. For 2020, it stood at 1.6%, and in both cases, they are down at 1.3%. And the bank of England now saying that as a result of Brexit, there is a one in three chance of a recession. James. I mean, in that, of course, still is in the realms of prediction and analysis, because we still don't know what Brexit means. No. So the bank of England has looked at the possibility of a no deal Brexit, and it says this. The Reuters survey, which asked respondents about the possibility of a disorderly Brexit, suggests that probability has also risen materially since May, as the weight attached to the possibility of a no deal Brexit has increased. Financial market participants have marked down their expectation for the path of interest rates. So as the value of the pound goes down, therefore they're marking down the fact they would need to increase interest rates, because if prices were to go up, you need to increase interest rates in order to keep the pressure on prices down. But that's not going to happen because the value of the pound is going down, because we're leaving, because it seems increasing, because investors don't want to buy pound, don't want to invest in sterling, because the UK is not seen as the proposition that it once was, and sterling is not seen as the proposition it once was, because of worries about our ability to trade freely with our largest. So a one in three chance of recession whatever we do. Yes. Except call the whole thing off. Yes, but that's not. The bank of England hasn't priced that into that price. So two things need to be said. The first is Jacob Rees Mogg will describe this as project fear. We haven't yet had that response, but that has been a response from certain wings. And the second thing is this will really put the pressure on the EU to reopen negotiations, won't it? Haha. We can say one in three chance of recession in the United Kingdom. Now you're going to open up your negotiations. We are spending an extra 2 billion pounds, although some of that money has already been allocated. And we're not spending a billion pounds of that money on our no deal preparations in order to be ready for October 31. More ready than we would otherwise have been under Theresa May. And therefore we have a viable alternative to secure political genius, the like of which we've never seen in our lifetimes. You impose economic sanctions on yourself and you announce financial measures designed to minimize the impact of the economic sanctions that you've imposed upon yourself. And you invite the great british public to cheer you to the rafters. Oh, would you like the other news? Yes. Because you'd have thought in the face of this that Labour would be doing really well, having really nailed a degree of sarcasm in your tone and your cheeky little schoolboy smile. Double digit lead for the Conservatives now 34 points according to Ipsos Mori on a poll just out. Labour on 24, Liberal Democrats on 20, Brexit party on nine. And there it is. This is all about drawing back Brexit party headbangers to conservative voting or Brexit party supporters. Brexit party voters, call them what you will. And Labour no doubt are about to unveil their fantastic scheme designed to address this scenario. There you go, Theo. Is that your debut on mystery o? No, I had one the other week. I made it too. I've made it like two in too many, haven't I? Better get out. No, hang on. Stay there. Take your medicine. Quite a proud moment there for Theo Washerwood. 22 minutes after twelve. Carrying on with mystery hour. Normal. Although of course politics is mystery hour every day at the moment. Tom's in Wanstead. Tom, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Tom. Billion. Go on. The market convention is 1000 million. And it's always been that way. So if you're talking about a billion dollars or a billion sterling in the city of London or in New York, it's always a thousand million. Qualifications. I used to be a money broker. That'll do. Round of applause. That wasn't. That's the easiest money you've ever made, isn't it, Tom? This round of applause. Thank you very much, James. You're very welcome. And it has to be. Although Richard question worked because we couldn't answer it in the first instance. But it wouldn't have been hilarious if we discovered on mystery hour that for the last hundred years, transatlantic economics had been conducted three. Three too few naughts on one side of the Atlantic and three too many on the other. Matt's in Ashford. Matt, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Crikey. You're going to need a new prologue. Epic, rather. Post log in your book after Theo's news then, aren't you? Well, it's only still in the realms of prediction and analysis. I can't write another epilogue. I've got to write another book. But anyway, I don't like talking about myself, Matt, you know that. Carry on with mister. Of course. So this question came up around boozy barbecue at the weekend. Oh, yes. So I apologize in advance if it's a bit too boozy, if it's one of your questions that you think is rubbish, hopefully. Spoonerisms. Are there any other insects or animals that we know of? Like the butterfly that when you spoonerize, the name describes what it does? No. Butterflies flutter by. Yeah, it's a beautiful one. And isn't there some dispute over what came first? Flutter by or butterflies? And I think there's theory in old English, it was called a flutterby. Well, maybe it was. I don't. That's. That's news to me. But other than. Other than the bumblebee, which doesn't really. Because it's an iteration way. No, I can't think of anything else. There's lots of onomatopoeic names. Of course there are. Are there any spoonerisms? But spoonerism would have happened by accident, wouldn't it? Possibly, but it got. It got us all chatting for quite a while. No one the nation might be able to help. My kind of barbecue. For people who don't know a spoonerism, you're not quite. Forgive me for being a pedant, but you're not quite using the word correctly, are you? Because to be an actual spoonerism, the transposition has to be accidental. So like a mistake. So. So it's a character in the rivals, isn't it? Isn't. It is. In the rivals misses Spooner, there's a character who does it all the time by accident. And there are some very, very funny examples which. Right, you've. There could be some very, very rude ones as well, but this is the wrong time of day for that, isn't it? Yeah, well, exactly. The Lord is a. Shoving left is a good example of a spoonerism. Okay. As opposed to love, but no, I like the question. I don't think there's going to be an answer to it. Is it because a spoonerism of butterfly describes a butterfly? That's the beauty of it. So if you accidentally said, or mistakenly said, oh, look at that lovely flutterby over there, it would be more poetic and in many ways more accurate than the actual taxonomic term butterfly, but I'd be staggered if anyone can think of another one. I like the challenge, I really do. That's just what would keep me going over a San Miguel and a hot dog. But I can't think of any. Oh, 345 is the number you need, if you can. Tom's in Islington. Tom, question or answer? Hi, mate. How you doing? My name's Paul. A little bit nervous, but I used to call you as Tom when I was homeless a few years ago. Yeah. And. But I've not actually spoken to you before, James, so this is a massive moment. I've been trying to get through to you for years. How you doing? I'm very well indeed. And you're back on your feet now, are you, mate? We're getting there, man. Great to hear you. Good to hear it. It's about the music thing. Yes. Why does it lose tune? Well, I'm a musician and producer and what I found. So this is coming from. I've not read it anywhere, but it's just coming from working with music and sound frequencies. Yeah. If you don't get the full range of harmonic or eq frequencies, you don't get the full balance of a mix. So when you listen to something for a phone, which is why music always sounds awful for a phone, you don't get the full harmonic balance. And as musicians, when we put this stuff together for you, we're considering the full harmonic balance. That's a beautiful answer. It makes perfect, absolutely perfect sense to me. So it's as if the. The ear isn't actually picking up some frequencies as the. As the volume goes lower, and that. That creates the speaker, doesn't push the speaker, the frequencies out, because bass frequencies don't travel at the same pace as high end frequencies, for example. That is a perfect answer. I'm just trying to sort of de jargonize it, that's all. Yeah, totally. For my less informed listeners, it makes perfect sense. What's reaching your ear is less complete and therefore it sounds less tuneful. Right, yeah. Round of applause for Paul. Can I be really cheeky for 1 second? I don't know what you're going to do. Well, you can do. I won't do anything silly. We launched a project three weeks ago that hopefully the proceeds. When we get to that, send me a tweet. Send me a tweet. Send me a tweet or an email. Just not because I'm being Billy big bananas, but just because I haven't got time on air to check out the probity of what you're saying. I don't doubt you for a minute, but just give me some detail in an email or a tweet and I'll do whatever I can to help promote it. 27 minutes after twelve is a time. It was misses Malaprop in the rivals, wasn't it? I think Doctor Spooner might have been a real person. Actually, you're right. I misremembered my Miss speakers there. Misses Malaprop is the one that uses the wrong word for something again, I've got the examples on my fingertips. Debbie's in Swanscomb. Debbie, question or answer? It's a question. And good afternoon to you. Good afternoon to you. Right. As a country, we have three armed forces. We have the army, the navy and the RAF. Why is it the Royal Navy? The RAF is the Royal Air Force and the army is just the British army regiments. Right. You have royal regiments within the British army and the navy and the RAF in their earliest days would have been sort of regiments of the broader force. So you have royal patronage according. Like the Royal Fusiliers according to regiment, rather than the whole conglomerate of the army. Oh, I see. Does that make sense? It does make sense. It still makes you think, why can't we have the army as the Royal army? Because we never needed to. Every regiment had a sort of royal connection or a patronage, I think. I don't know that that last bit is true, but the answer to the question is because the royal patronage is established at regimental level rather than whole force level. So the Royal Navy is like the Royal Fusiliers or the Royal. Think of another one. Royal grenadiers. Are they called royal grenadiers? Yeah. Yeah. I'm taking a round of applause for that because I'm a bit greedy. Oh, thank you, Doug, but I am leaving it on the board just in case someone comes along with the stewards inquiry. Okay, that'd be good. Great stuff. Thank you. Lovely question. I like that. It is just coming up to 12:30 so we've done the soft music, plain windows. There's an easy, easy money there. Easy money on the billions. I'm pretty sure I got the orange question right. But round of applause, still going begging. What did we call orange stuff before we learned the word orange? We didn't learn the word orange until oranges arrived in this country in about the 15th century. And where do regional accents come from? Answer me that and I'll give you the money myself. It's just coming up to 12:30 on LBC. Philip Krissikos is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1234 is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Orange. What did we call orange stuff before we discovered orange? Why do you have to put the plane windows shutters up before and take off and landing? And where do regional accents come from? And I hope someone will have a go at that. It's one of my all time favorite questions. I genuinely mean it. If I hadn't been such an insufferable little show off when I was younger and getting drawn towards jobs and professions that involve shouting, look at me, look at me at a reluctant public like I do now. If I'd been a little bit more modest and sensible, I'd have loved to have studied that. I could have been a professor of accents or something. I'd have loved that. Glenn's embassy. And Glenn, question or answer? I've got an answer, mate for orange bring. I just want to say, though, you know, we had a little chat on mystery a couple of years ago about regional accents and you've forgotten, so it's your own fault. No, I haven't forgotten. I've got bits of it in my memory, but I, you know, it's all about theatre of the mind, Glenn. Theatre of the mind. Yeah, yeah, I know. You're a busy guy. Okay, so orange. Orange. What do we call orange? Orange turn color. Orange turn up. It was red. It was literally, everything was just seen as a different shade of red. So you were kind of along the right lines. Best. The best illustration of that is the fact that we call people redheads and that goes back to way before the fifth robin red breast and all that sort of stuff. So, yeah, yeah. People say when I heard the question. So really I wasn't a phone in about the reason again, but I'll let someone else have a style. So I've got orange now, I'm not rubbing. And I know. I know what your qualifications are. And what I love about this is that when I say it, people will go, you what? Yeah, can I. You ask me. Ask me what your qualifications are. Fluent in Anglo Saxon, mate. Not quite, but almost getting there. You should be by now. The amount of time. The amount of time you've run me calling upon your anglo saxon scholarship as your qualifications for answering a question. You must be close to fluent. Almost, mate. The reason this one stuck me is when I literally remembered it once on the phone. I remember about half danish, half saxon nobleman. Yeah. I was reading about called fertile, which is how they pronounced it back in the day. Yes. An a on the end of it. But I just couldn't. It was stuck in me. Where'd it come from? And then I sort of went, there it is. There we are. That's why we love mystery act. It eases our passage towards these sort of moments of revelation. Round of applause for Glenn, the Anglo saxon scholar. Thank you, Glenn. Sebastian's in Paris. A lot of overseas calls at the moment. It's a good job. Good job. My figures are up, Sebastian. Otherwise I'd be quite resentful about the fact that you're listening for free in France. It's an answer, and it is the answer to the regional accents where they come from. Fantastic. Go on. They are vestiges of regional dialects which are themselves vestiges of regional or tribal languages. If you take, you gave the example earlier of Geordi, which is distinct from. Very distinct from pretty much the rest of the accents, languages around it. And that is related to Danish because that was a stronghold of one of the last mongols of the Vikings when they. And they ordain law, of course. So speaking English with a. Or trying to just integrate, but while retaining some identifying factors from your origin country or origin accent, pronunciations, it all stays from your accent. But it must also be. There must be a link between the black country accent and the pollution, though, because you wouldn't breathe. You'd breathe differently when you're in a really heavily industrialized area from how you would breathe in a. A more sort of wealthier. Well, true. And that would be related to my second point, which is that before the industrial revolution and printing was widespread, people didn't move around as much. So their regional dialects were really regional languages. They didn't understand, couldn't understand each other from one end of the country to the other because you just spoke basically the same language as your friends and neighbors in different ways. Would that lead us into Stanley Baldwin territory. Do you think that? Really strong sort of patois. Almost a patois, an accent. And so strong it almost changes the nature of language. Yeah, I love that. And there's also all the loan words that we take from other languages notably French which is obviously my interest which affect how the language is spoken as well. And then when you get up to from Shakespeare onwards and people starting to read and standardization of language means that these regional dialects or languages become accents. That's a lot. I love it. That was a beautiful answer. What are your qualifications? I studied history of English at university. History of English? History of English? What, as an undergraduate? Yeah. Where did you study that? Luton. Oh, that. Fine academic swings and roundabouts, Sebastian. Because I was sitting here thinking no one ever told me you could study history of English. But I've got to be honest with you, mate. Lewton was never really on make of that what you. But I'd rather have studied what you studied than what I studied. I don't know whether I'd rather have studied in Luton than London, though that's a slightly different problem. Round of applause for Sebastian, please. Lovely answer. Great mystery, Al. An amazing show. Aren't we all? Wonderful. Edwards in Norwich. Edward, question or answer? I have an answer for you, James. Carry on, Edward. It's the aircraft blinds. Oh. So my. My very patronizing suggestion, I sense might have been wrong. I don't think saying that wings on an aircraft on fire or engines on fire is patronizing. I think it's still important to identify that. But that isn't, fortunately, the technical answer. Thank you for being so kind and diplomatic. Carry on. You're welcome. It's to do with pupil dilation and it's also to do with the taxi take off and landing so obviously you're not restricted to take off or open and shut them during flight. You can do that as freely as you want but it's to do with the fact that you're trying to keep the ambient temperature, the ambient light the same during those emergency areas, you see. So you don't want to go from extreme light to extreme darkness in case of emergency because obviously you lose all aircraft power if that's what it's trying to compensate for. Qualifications? I design aircraft cabins. Do you know, the producer's pulling a face, a skeptical face at the moment. I said, what are your qualifications? You said, I literally design aircraft cabins. But she thinks she knows better. Round of applause for Edward, please. Thank you very much. As close to being a let's find how many aircraft cabin designers are there operating in the country at any one time? Well, at the moment, subject to the 31 October, quite a lot. It's probably the biggest. One of the biggest in the world, I think. One in four. I think that's right. One in four. UK trade investment told me that one in four aircraft cabins are designed in the UK. Is that right? As you rightly point out, for now. For now, yeah, for now. Well, you've talked yourself out of a Ray Li Otter. You're joking. No. You should have just said, there's only me. So, roughly, numbers terms, how many people do your job in Britain? Be honest. Do my job in Britain? Yeah. A couple hundred. Couple hundred? Probably maximum. Keith shaking his head. But, I mean, this is a story. He's an aircraft cabin designer asking a question about aircraft cabin design. Give him a break. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Thank you, Edward. Congratulations. 1241 is the time he mentioned Brexit. Mark Carney's presser is still unfolding that one in three chance of a recession, even if there is a smooth Brexit. Also, a prediction that if a no deal goes through, the pound will hit its lowest level ever. Which. Give it. Give it a week and the Brexit will be celebrating that. Yay. We've broken another record. The pound has never been lower. High five, nige. Well done, everybody. And of course I jest, but there will be people making a killing out of that while the rest of us suffer. There will be people making a killing out of this. If you can find pictures of people, I don't know, pointing at graphs showing the pound plummeting with a really cheesy grin on their face, they're the ones I'd look at first, but I can't think of anyone in that category, and I'm sure you can't either. Shane's in Huddersfield. Shane, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Shane. It's cats lives. And I understand why we suggest that they've got multiple, but why specifically nine? Where did that come from? The cat. The cats having nine lives. Yeah, that's a nice question. I can't believe we've never done that before. It doesn't matter whether we've done it or not, does it? Because I can't remember the answer and you don't know the answer, so it's worth doing it again. I've resisted the urge to Google. Nobody I've asked has known. So this is the place for it. Good man. It might be a poem or a children's story or something like that, but we don't. We need someone who knows. We need to go definitive. I love it. Yeah. You're on. Thank you, Shane. Great work. 1242 is the time. Where does the cats having nine lives myth come from? Done. Plain windows. Done. Regional oaks and Don Orange. Is that it? We answered everything. Oh, and flutterby, do we know of any other spoonerisms in the animal world? I'm not explaining that question. If you don't understand it, you're unlikely to be able to answer it, so there's no point me explaining it, is there? Chris is in slough. Question or answer, Chris? It's the answer. I'm after negotiations. They won't know what day it is. Go on, then. What's your question? Good afternoon, James. Afternoon. The word hello on the phone, the etymology of that word, where does it come from? Why is the first word we say on the phone? Does it. Is it by phone, I mean. Yes, but on the phone, it's quite specific. It's used in many, many countries and. But not just on the phone. Chris, if you say hello all the time, I come in in the morning, I see Keith's cheery little face. I say, hello, Keith. I answer the phone, I go, hello. Or sometimes I go, no, Brian, sorry, carry on. I take your answer as a. But on the phone, it's quite. It's quite unique. No, it's not. One of us isn't getting this. It's possibly me. But if you say hello to someone when you meet them in the street, and then you. When the telephone is invented, you then say hello to them when you encounter them on the telephone. It's not a question about telephones. No, it is. It is. Why do we answer? Why do we answer the first words we say? You don't say good morning, do you? Well, I don't. Some people do. So in other countries. In Greece, they say, Ella, which means, come on. Like, what do you want? You answer, greek person picks up the phone, they go, Ella, which just means, come talk to me. Maybe. Maybe. Maybe. Why are you maybe me when I'm just dropping truth bombs all over the place? It was a universal. Well, no, it isn't. Conversation. Start on the phone. No, it was my. But it was my start. Used to say. When I was a kid, I used to say the number, I'd say, kiddie minster, six, nine, something, something. There you, maybe. So this is just an appalling question? Yeah. I think I think you've let the listeners down. I think you've let me down. But most of all, Chris, I think you've let yourself down. Terrible, Ben. Terrible. I'm going to say the word that often appears in conjunction with hello. Goodbye. Coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. Millions already spent but not used now 2 billion set aside for a no deal brexit that nobody voted for. One mp says it's immoral. Is it? Sheila Fogarty on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1248 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. Although we've victims of our own success a bit, we answered so many questions, we need to squeeze in a couple more. With very little time remaining. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Lim is in top. Lim. Question or answer? Hello, James Question. Please carry on. So I had this on top gear maybe like 20 years ago, and I always try it out when I get the opportunity. You know, when you've got your car key, like the key fob that you press to open it, whenever you put it next to your head, you always get better range on it by, like, a couple of meters. And I just want to know why. I think I knew this. Isn't it like a kind of magnifying glass? It resonates. It's like a loud halo. Your head operates like a sort of, um. Like a bell almost. Um, the how. Oh, it's hollow. It kind of put a sound through it, through anybody and it resonates differently. And if you put it through your head, it resonates more loudly, I think. But it's not a sound, is it when you press, what is it? I don't know. Is it not so is it not some sort of sonic. I don't know. I thought. I thought there's sound waves involved in the. In the. In the clickers that you use to open your car. Otherwise it. Otherwise it'd have to be magic. Could be magic. Could it be magic? I'll put. I put it on. It rings a bell with me, if you pardon the pun, but, um. I don't think I've got the. I think I'm on the right page, but I haven't got to the end and I can't read the next few words, so I shall put it on the board for you. Why does putting your key fob next to your head when you press the button increase the efficiency of said key fob? Zero, 345-606-0973, Lionel is in Helensburgh. Lionel, question or answer? Hello, James. Answer. Carry on. You spoke earlier. Somebody asked the question about why is it called the british army and not the royal army? That was Deborah in Swainscombe. Yep. And you gave an answer. And I'm afraid I've got to give you a correction. Get out of town. Go on, Lionel. Tread carefully, my friend, because you tread upon my dreams. I know, I know. And now so take you all the way back to the english civil war. Yes. There were no standing armies in those days, and so the parliament decided to raise the first proper british standing army, or the english standing army. And so that army, the foundation of the real english army, was a parliamentary army, and therefore it fought against the king, and therefore it wasn't royal, it was republican. And that's the reason why it's called the army and not the royal army. Before I pick a fight with you, I'm just going to establish just how clever you are. What are your qualifications? How about 32 years in the army? Yeah. Good. I'm glad you said that. If you'd said 32 years teaching military history, then I might have paused before weighing in. Okay. You're going to beat me now? Well, I don't know. You're talking about the new Model army. Correct. And I'm 99% sure the new Model army was completely disbanded during the restoration. But that's where the historic name of the british army comes from, as opposed to the Royal army. The Royal Navy didn't fight against the king, and so it kept its title, and the Royal Air Force was formed way after that, so it got the title of Royal Air Force. I know all that. But then we have royal regiments. Well, let's assume some of them fought for the king or some of them have other connections, but those are not necessarily. But the army was disbanded completely when Charles II came to the throne. Oh. So how can it be the origin of an army that doesn't exist? How can an army that didn't exist from the restoration onwards be the origin story to bring a bit of kind of Marvel DC type language into proceedings for a change? How can that be the origin story of an army that does exist? Okay, well, then go back to your point. Now. Go back to your point. So why is it not then called the Royal army? Because the regiments were where you got royal patronage rather than for the whole shebang. It was indivisible. I'm pretty sure. I'm pretty sure. You sound very convincing. I think it was a bit of a thing from Charles II saying, look, in punishment for what you did, this is. But it wasn't a punishment because the army was disbanded. So if he had reformed with an acknowledgement of that, they fought on the wrong side. How's that? You're not going to give me that, are you? I don't know. It's because it was never a homogenous force. It's always been a conglomeration of regiments, and some of the regiments are royal and some of them aren't. So the army and the navy have never been split. I'm not. I'm sorry. You're not taking that one? No. Well, I think I'm right. Obviously, I didn't serve in the army. I did two years in the RAF cadets, but the less said about that. No, they're good enough. I'll share a round of applause with you, just because I'm feeling at one with the universe, but I'm not carrying the show. Great. You're very kind. Thank you, Lionel. Let's just split it between me and Lionel. This one. There we go. I'm pretty sure I might. I just haven't explained it quite as pithily as I might have pleased, as I might have liked. Richard is in East Grinstead. Richard. Yes, James. Thanks for taking the call's question. You're welcome. We got. We pushed a sommelier in France and his budget to buy wines for his hotel range from about half a million to a million. So obviously they're very fine wine. Yeah. Now, I not. I like wine. My tipples shatter. Nerf de pap. So it's somewhere in the middle if you look at the scale of wine. Decent. Drop that, mate. Decent. You've got quite expensive tastes there. Yeah. You got vinegar at one end. Yeah. But the wines that this guy was talking about are like a hundred years old. So my bottle of Chateauneuf, which I quite like. Yeah, very popular. Yeah. How much better would those fine wines be? And would I be able to taste the difference? Would you be able to tell? The difference will depend slightly on your palate. Somebody will be able to tell you vinegar and a nice wine. But you can. There's a reason why you drink. Shout out to papa. Not, not, you know, a 599 bottle. Yeah, but would my shadow, nerf de pap, taste like vinegar compared to one he's got in his cellar? I understand the question and I don't know the answer. But the eye. But it must. But it. But of course it does. Someone tastes it. I don't know. These bottles of wine are worth like thousands of. Oh, I see what you mean. And then sometimes they tell you, this is a good one to lay down, or they say, this one is drinking. Well, now, yeah, we need to get the question in simpler form. We've probably not got enough time to answer it anyway. But just, you know, how. Do you know how finer wine is? Is that what we're saying? I mean, what does it. Does it. Is it more. I don't know. Is it? Yeah. We should have thought this through before you rang in, Richard. Well, I'm trying to think of it now. I mean, so do you think you are me? You don't get to do thinking out loud on the program unless you're the presenter. Is ultimately, the better the wine gets nearer a fruit juice. I don't know. I don't know either. I'm worried now. I kind of. If someone understands the question that's bubbling under my conversation with Richard but hasn't yet showed its head on the surface. Give us a ring, fill us in quick before we all go to the pub. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Mark's in Norwich. That's a few calls from Norwich today. Always cheers me. Hello, Mark. Question or answer? It's an answer, mate. Carry on. It's for the car remote. I'm getting calls from Norwich because I referenced Tombland earlier, you see. So everyone's. Everyone's. Everyone's responding to my Norwich seduction techniques anyway. Sorry. Car alarms. Yeah. Your body amplifies the aerial or amplifies the signal that the remote sends out. Oh. So if I'm listening to the radio and the phone line and the. And the reception is bad. If I hold the area, if you hold the aerial, it gets better. And so it's the same thing. If I put the thing to my head, it's got nothing to do with the shape of my skull. It's my whole body has become the transmitter. Yes. Yeah. Which is why it seems to have a longer reach when I'm trying to open my car. Yes. Qualifications? I'm an auto electrician who fits car arms as well. That'll do. Round of applause for my life. Good work. Ian is in Liverpool. Ian, question or answer? Hello, James. Answer. Yes. Just. Just. Just bear with me because I've got a rough idea what you're gonna do. I'm just gonna consult with my top team. All right? Okay. Absolutely. And also, I just want to hear. I just want to. Can I just see your face, Ian? I just got you. You're not about to do something really rude, are you? Absolutely not. You swear by all that you hold holy. All right, you. Hello. No, we're not. I'm not sure, but you sound like a stand up guy. I don't know why you've been put through. No, well, only because you're going to do a word and I don't know what it means. And occasionally people, mischievous people, ring in in the hope of getting presenters to say no. Well, now the producer's panicking. You put him through. This is outrageous. Ian's going to go away feeling awful. Now, it's a scandinavian word for a bat, but that's not actually a spoonerism. Ian, mate, it's nothing personal and I can't tell you why, but relatively recently, a serious embarrassment was suffered live on LBC. Not by me, but I'm not. I'm not going to risk it. That's it, I think. Should we squeeze any in in Glasgow? Ian, quickly. Question or answer? Answer, mate. And I'm afraid I have to disagree with you. What? Go on. Sorry, it doesn't happen often. So it's the hello thing where your man was asking about why we sit on the telephone. There is a telephone link to it with Thomas Edison, isn't there? Yeah, but. So actually, like, one of the funniest jokes for me in the Simpsons is when Mister Burns answers the phones and says, ahoy hoy. Like that joke is him being older than the telephone. Yes, the hoi hoy is much, much older than hello. Hello was only really popularized as a way of greeting and introducing yourself on a telephone after Edison accidentally did it, I think with Edison. Well, because there was conflict, competition between Edison and Graham Bell. If you use my phone, you got to say that the word hello was recorded before the telephone was invented. That's where I got a bit distracted. And to be fair, Chris wasn't exactly expressing himself with enormous amounts of clarity. But you can have a little round of applause before Sheila Fogarty takes over. Cheers, man. Thanks, Ian. Great course, thanks, everybody. That was lovely. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten, here's shields. Hello. Hello. Three today throughout August, actually, every Thursday, I'm going to pick apart one issue and today it's housing. Three x experts here to take your calls. Two, have you spent time in the care system, foster homes or children's care homes? Do you care for a looked after children? That's what we call these days, a child taken from the family home by the state. For good reasons, of course. Increasing numbers of children now fall into that category. Why might that be? We'll talk about that from two. But straight up after the news, the governor of the bank of England is basing his latest forecasts on a smooth Brexit. A deal. But is the government really interested in that kind of Brexit? The chancellor sets aside 2.1 billion for no deal preparations today as MP's. Some of them, anyway. Call the move immoral, is it? On your radio? On global player and play LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.