Why do lullabies work?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Good grief, is that the time already? Mystery hour, you say? Thursday, you say, gosh, what are we gonna do? The excitement may become too much for us all to bear. And I completely forgot to do wokewatch as well. I'll do it tomorrow. It's a good one. Do you know how this works? Could you remind me? Would you mind someone talking? No, I've got to do everything. Honestly, it's ridiculous. The division of labour in this relationship. When are you going to start pulling your weight? Why do I have to do all that heavy lifting? Not to mention most of the talking. Mystery Hour is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction, or not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You ring in, someone rings in with a question and then someone else rings in with the answer. It's a little bit more complicated than that. Otherwise it wouldn't have its own board game, available not only online, but now in all branches of John Lewis. Did I mention that I saw it in Peter Jones in Sloane Square the other day? And it was one of the proudest moments of what passes for my career. Genuinely, I was on my own as well, which was a shame. I wish I'd been with the kids, actually. I'm probably glad I wasn't with the kids. They're reaching the stage now where they'd just be like, oh, yeah, whatever, dad. But it was magical. It was magical. I mean, truly magical. See it there, sitting on the flipping thing next to Monopoly and Scrabble and James O'Brien's mystery. And you can win a box, you can win a game yourself if you make. What is my favorite contribution to today's mystery hour? All the terms and conditions for that competition are available at LBC dot co dot UK dot. So someone rings in with a question, someone else rings in with an answer. The only real rule, the only real rule is this. Don't look it up. Don't look it up. If someone asks a question, you think, oh, I know that, I'll just Google. I'll google it. Don't, don't. The whole fun of mystery hour is the reasons why. Not the whole fun, but a large part of the fun is the reasons why, you know what it is. You know, because sometimes some amazing stories emerge. And the best stories, of course, often lead to a Ray Liotta, which is the highest accolade available on british radio and which we have, after some consideration, decided to keep despite Rey's passing. A couple of weeks ago, a very, very sad day. But the point is, of course, that the journey is often more interesting than the destination. So that's the only real rule. Don't look anything up. Don't look anything up at all. Six minutes after twelve is the time. If it wasn't mystery out there, I'd probably wax lyrical a little bit about that pardon for witches in Scotland, because I get to North Berwick quite a lot, particularly when the festival's on in Edinburgh. I don't think we're going to make it this year, but I love it up there. And the story of the witches in north Berwick who ended up being blamed for the storm that nearly killed. Oh, it's one of the Jameses, I forget which one. When he'd gone all the way to Europe to pick up his wife and bring her back on a ship and there was a storm that nearly killed them and he blamed it on witches and then embarked upon a bloody mission to execute as many of them as possible. It was an absolutely horrible chapter in scottish history, but one that obviously still resonates enough for Nicola Sturgeon to take steps to issue pardons. Shall we crack on with mystery hour at 1207? I've covered. Have I covered all the bases? I think I have. Duncan is in Acton. Duncan, question or answer? Hello, mate. It's a question, please, Duncan, what's it going to be? I'm wondering, did you. Did humans, homo sapiens, ever in any point in history, schedule their offspring to be born in the spring like most of the animal kingdom do? So what, April? Yeah. I mean, around. Around the spring, you always see the lambs. In the wild, you see the bears. December. Did we ever used to do it? November, October, September. So you'd be having sex in August? Well, yeah, around there. So did humans. Did. Oh, yeah. I should have, you know, I just counted back nine months and Keith just said in my. You should have just counted forward three months. Forward. Three? Yeah. He's not as thick as he looks, is he? I am so that. So did humans ever shed? I wouldn't have thought so. Would you? I mean, I don't know if animals do it like that, do they? Isn't it? Well, they. I mean, they do, yeah. I mean, if you're walking around the wild in spring, you always. Lamming is a thing, but it's that who's made that decision, the sheep or the fowl in the wild. But in the wild in America, you always see young, young wolves, young bears, you know. Yeah. What an amazing question. What a brilliant question. What made you think of it? You don't see many wolves in Acton. Me and my wife were driving through the Buckinghamshire countryside the other day and we saw all the lambs and it just sparked that question. I don't know whether we ever did it. I wonder if anyone does. We'll try and find out. So did human beings ever, ever sort of scheduled the birth with the. With the seasons? Like. Like a lot of. Like a lot of animals do. Oh, Duncan. An early lead there for the mystery, our board game. I've got to say, that's a cracking question. Although there's obviously an awful lot of room left for people to catch you up, so. He's right, of course. I mean, all over the animal kingdom, you see the birth, the season of birth being spring. Have humans ever being part of that? Zero. 345-606-0973 Kieran is in Maidstone. Kieran, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Okay, so I was with my wife the other day and we were walking. We were walking. We're walking along this road and it looked completely flat, but then it wasn't until we're walking the road. And then my wife said to me, are we walking uphill? And then I looked behind me and then you could see the gradient going back down behind you. But then looking in front, it looked completely flat and it just reminded me of, like, I remember watching a program one time. I've forgotten if it was in Wales or Scotland. There's this really, really, really steep road and the locals say that it looks completely flat. So my question is, why can't the brain recognize an incline when you look at it? And. Yeah, so literally, that's my. I mean, it was a very straight road. Yeah, that's the answer. Oh, okay. Because if it was a windy road, one bit of the wind would be above another bit of the wind and you'd see that it was a hill. But the straight road. I don't know where I'm getting this from or quite why I'm so confident I'm right. The road looks straight. So there's nothing that actually indicates the incline is there, if it's a straight road, but if it's a bendy road, there is, I think. But then what about when you're in a. You're in a car and you're driving and the thing is you're driving up and you can see the brow of a hill. Yeah. Well, then the brow is getting nearer. You know that you're on a hill, but if the incline does. If there's no brow, as it were, or if it's not steep enough to really merit a brow, as it were, then you're never gonna. I don't know that you're ever gonna notice that. It's, um. I don't know. I mean, I'm not going to take the round of applause. I'm going to leave it on the board, but I think it must be. That's why the straightness seems to me to be significant. Yeah, well, yeah, it was effective. It was effectively a very straight road. So the question was very silly. No, it's not silly at all, because I'm thinking. I'm really thinking about it now and someone's just texted saying, the road is in Cumbria. But I presume that that's the second part of a text from Mark in Hampshire, otherwise he's stalking you, mate. Were you in Cumbria? No, I live in mesmerization. Yeah, shut up, Mark. He wasn't. He must be a second part of a text that I didn't see the first part of. But I don't know. Why can't you see an incline on a straight road? Zero. 345-606-0973 I like that one. I like the first one. It's a good week so far. Danny's in Barnstable. Danny, question or answer? Question, please carry on. I'd like to know if Chili's actually burn our mouths, as in leave lasting damage. Well, they don't leave lasting damage today, but the pain. Anything else that causes that amount of pain, if you eat something hot, would leave some sort of damage. Yes, exactly. They don't leave lasting damage. But are they actually. Well, if they don't leave lasting damage, it can't be a burn, can it? Well, anything that's hot burns you. Yeah, but if it. I mean, it a burn. So how would you describe a chili, then? Maybe. Well, I would call it a burn, but I don't think it is a burn. Well, I don't know what you mean by burn. This is really a question about the meaning of the word burn, isn't it? Rather than what chilies do to our mouth. What does burn mean? Well played. I was. I was talking to. I was cleaning some windows, talking to guy. A big polytunnel full of chilies, growing them everywhere. Yeah. And I said, oh, can I take one home? He said, you couldn't eat these. He said that they're more or less industrial strength. They're cultivated for pepper sprays and things like that. He said, whatever you get on the Scoville. Yeah. This will blow out the water. It's millions and millions, he said. But he told me that your brain thinks you shouldn't eat a chilli, so it tricks you to thinking it's poisonous and that's why you get the sensation. But I wasn't quite sure about it. I was thinking I need a definitive no. But we need to pin down the syntax again. So, by bur. I mean, is it the same, is it chemically the same or physically the same as if you touch something very, very hot? We kind of both know it isn't, don't we? It can't be, because otherwise you'd get blisters like you do when you. When you have a. What does a chili do to us? Yeah, I think. It doesn't it just absorb. Doesn't it just activate the capsaicin receptors which mimic burning? Possibly. I'm not sure about the Dem receptors. I've been into my curry cooking lately and there's a. There's a. There's a thing called Mister Naga, which is chili paste. Yes. And I opened a brand new jar that never used it before. Seen on a few YouTube videos. Go on and on. Nearly said to my daughter, I'll give you a tenner if you have a teaspoon. But I didn't. I just touched. Wait, that's social services territory, that is. That's outrageous behavior. I touched my tongue on the tip of it and I'm so pleased. I never gave it to her. I should have been at the hospital. Oh, bless her. And did you put it in a curry or did you put it back in the cupboard? No, I put quarter teaspoon into my dress. It was nice, but it was a big. It did the business. I think you should have called that fellas bluff and had a munch on one of his chilies, Danny. Just to see. I might send once a year. You can tell me how it is. You be up the ladder faster than you've ever been up before in your life. We're not old fashioned window cleaner stones. We don't use ladders, of course. No, you've got. You got the. You've got the big things now, have you, with the pole? Yeah, I like poles. Yeah, that's quite interesting, Danny. Top man. We'll get you an answer to that. What goes on? What happens when you. When you. When you think your mouth is burning after eating a chilli? Because it isn't burning in the conventional sense, because you don't end up with burns. Zero, 345-606-0973, crackers there. Duncan, Kieran and Danny really setting the bar high on this week's mystery out. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The time now is 1215. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 17 minutes after twelve. Did humans ever go in for seasonal birthing? There's got to be a pithier way of putting this. But you know how lots of other animals, mammals have their babies in the spring? Did humans ever do that? Someone's pointed out they are called offspring for a reason. No. Why can you not tell you're going up a hill when you're on a straight road? Zero. 345-606-0973 there's a road in Scotland, isn't there? That is an optical illusion. And Stuart Ipswich says there's something called the magic road in Ireland, which is very bendy. So I'm not sure you're right. It's perfectly possible I'm not right. I was quite honest about that with Kieran. It just struck me as possibly part of the explanation. And what happens when a chilli burns your mouth? Because it's not burning in the normal sense, in the. In the fire heat sense of the word. Sally is in ascot. Sally, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Can giraffes swim? I can't believe we've never had that before. What? Why do you want to know? What have you got planned? Nothing planned at the moment. Could go in much deeper water than a horse, couldn't they? Even if they were walking, have they ever been anywhere that's deep enough to find out? And even if they could swim. Horses can swim. They can. Which is what makes me think that a giraffe probably can as well. Would it counterbalance that? It was neck would almost tip it upside down. Now you're just being silly. How would that. What do you mean? That neck would neck so long they'd have to go into a lake or something really deep, like an ocean, because the average river is not going to be. It would be able to walk through a river with its head above the water somewhere really deep. Even if it was somewhere really deep, because it's next. Hang on a minute. No, we swim even though our feet can touch the bottom, because it's a more efficient way of getting through the water. You never look at it. You never look at a swimming pool and think, oh, I'll just walk to the other side. Do you? Will swim when you're jumping, even if your feet can touch the bottom. Yeah, but I don't know if their necks would have an issue. Cause an issue. Well, I don't imagine they would. I imagine that they're pretty strong, wouldn't they? Well, I shall find out. I mean, listen, we don't need to overcomplicate it. Can giraffes swim? Yeah, can giraffes? I think they probably can, but I just wonder if anyone's ever been able to find out. Zero. 345-606-0973 well, of course someone's been able to find out. You just push him in, wouldn't you? Bit harsh. It's not that harsh if you work in a safari park or something like that and all the. All the punters have gone home and you've got, I don't know, a convenient sea lion pool or something like that. And a giraffe. You'd start with a small giraffe. If a small giraffe can swim. If a baby giraffe can swim, then a big giraffe can swim. Well, let's find out. Let's find out. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Katie's in Warwick. Katie, what would you like to say? I mean. Sorry. God. God. That's not what happens for this hour of the show. It's Katy. Question or answer in Warwick. It's a question, James. Carry on, Katie. So my question is decimal numbering system. How, how and why am I allowed a how and why? How and why did France or the french language kind of develop a system where instead of having a name for 80, for example, they have 420s? What is it again? 80. Well, they don't. They say van cat, don't they? That's 24, fortunately, and no. What do they. Well, I nearly said something rude then. I don't know why I had the french number in my head. That equates with something a bit. A bit fruity. I'm very glad I didn't. But I knew it wasn't Van Quatra. It's Catrobin, isn't it? Yeah, cat ravin. Catrovin. 60 is. Sorry, 70. Don't go with the 60. That's what I nearly did. Don't go there. It's 60 and ten, isn't it? So I'm just interested to know. It's just a rubbish language, isn't it? It's just a rubbish language. Just a rubbish. Why can't they have a number for 80 like normal languages? Exactly, yeah, exactly. I don't know. Why did that ever become a good idea? Who thought that one up? Well, maybe it makes more sense metrically. Maybe it makes more sense. It's actually easier to do calculations. Well, why are they the only ones that have decided that's the best idea? I don't know that they are. How many languages are you familiar with? I'm speaking with a group. Be careful how I say that. A group of linguists last week and nobody knew the answer. And some of them did French. Okay, fair enough. Yeah. So, I mean, we've got Soissendisse and Quatrevin, most obviously for 70 and 80. What's 90? Isn't it 80 and ten? I think it is catcher van dies. It's just getting silly, isn't it? I tell you what, I should know all this. We've got GCSE's going on in our house at the moment. I've not been much use on the old revision. Yeah, you're right. Yeah. So why don't they have numbers for these big numbers? Names for these big numbers? Names for these big numbers. That's what we want. Yeah. Yeah. Lovely question there. Thank you very much. We'll try and get you an answer. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Sam's in Nottingham. Sam, question or answer? Hi, question. I'm actually in Lincoln at the moment. That's. I can't take your call, I'm afraid. I've got. I've used up all my lincolns. I've used up all my lincolns for this week. I've got a couple of nottinghams short. Oh, there. Yesterday. That'll do. Carry on. Right. So, question. Yeah. Human infants. Yeah. Seem to be lulled and even put to sleep by singing and lullabies. Why does it. More importantly than the current, why. How did that come to pass? Evolutionarily, that seems, in a world of predators, that. That's, I don't know, survival. Have you got a little one at home? Have you been singing lullabies lately? Well, this is why I'm in Lincoln. I've got two twins. Just. We're in the neonatal unit at the moment. Oh, how lovely. Is everything all right? Yes. Yeah, it's just. Just about getting there. We're going home soon. Very exciting. For a bonus point, like, I fall asleep when they're playing the music in there as well. So. Adults, too. I think it possibly recreates the atmosphere in the womb. Well, I do wonder that. Or it has the same rhythm as your heartbeat. So it. I don't know. I'm just thinking out loud. I'll put. Obviously the question's going on the board. Why do lullabies? Why do lullabies work? The rocking is very much. It simulates the mother walking during pregnancy. What do you mean? The rock? I mean, you don't have rock. Rock and roll lullabies physically rocking. I know. I figured it'd be it. Why did. Why do lullabies work? That's the question. Why do lullabies work? Yeah. Yeah. Love it. You're on. Good luck with everything. Have you ever. Your first. Oh, no. Oh, Lordy. Fourth and fifth. Two, three, four. First twins, though. Yes. God grief. You go. You've got a busy few years ahead, haven't you, mate? This is probably the last time we'll ever talk. Maybe. Look after yourself, Sam. And best of luck with the new arrivals as well. Love to their mum. 25 minutes after twelve is the time. Why do lullabies work? Or how do lullabies work? Perhaps Harry is in Chiswick. Harry, question or answer? I won't answer. Carry on, Harry. Right, the giraffes, they can't swim. How do you. I see it on Qi. Yeah. That Alan Davis with a puppet demonstrated it. And it's the weight, it's the waist of their neck, basically. They can't get into a swimming position. Well, that's what Sally suggested. Sally thought it might have something to do with their neck. Yeah. So if they went in deep enough water, essentially the head would have to go up to breathe and they would be then in a viable swimming position, because they can't go flat. If they could go flat, if the neck could come all the way down the water. Well, I never. Who'd have thought it? And in Qi is fairly definitive, isn't it? Did the old alarm. They show it on Dave and then give a change of answer. But, yeah, no, I'm with you. Qualifications. Saw it on Qi. Round of applause for Harry. First one of the day. Well played. No, lovely. Well done. Sally, as well, for sort of second guessing what the answer might be. 26 minutes after twelve, there's one phone line free if you're quick. Don't text me complaining, but. But get involved. Ben's inheringay. Ben, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It is about the french numbers. Yes. So the old sort of way of counting actually dates back to sort of celtic times. Go on. When they would stop at, like, six. You see how we also just have seconds to 60 and then. So pre metric, in a way, pre metric because actually. And the Romans, it started getting pushed out. But France, for some reason, which I do have to apologize, I don't know, kept hold of the old system, because other french speaking countries, like Belgium and Quebec, they do actually have numbers for, like, the decimals above 60. Do they? Yes. So 70 in Belgium would be septent, then? 80 is octant. That's much better, isn't it? That makes much more sense. Septent and octon. I'm belgian, so I agree with that. But for some reason, the French don't want to switch around. I live with them. Yeah, go for it. No, you carry on. Sorry. So when I lived in Paris for a bit, I asked my french flatmate, saying, why do you not change? And say, oh, it sounds ugly. And that was pretty much it. So we don't know the answer to why they do it. We just know that they don't. It's an old remnant. Is it, though? I mean, is it an old remnant? Because that means that the Belgians and the Quebecois changed theirs at some point in the. In the past. Yeah. I think it's because of the academie francaise and those things they say, like, this is the proper way. Yeah. Going to give you a round of applause for being interesting. But there is still room to go definitive on this, isn't there? Oh, yeah, definitely. So. And could it be mark, I think, is joking when he says the French have a base of 20 because they used their fingers and their toes, whereas we only have a base of ten because we only used our fingers. That doesn't work, does it? As an explanation, I do think that the base of counting comes into it, maybe, like it was a celtic base and a roman base to the gallic bass. Because, like, I used to ask my french teacher, what's it? And he said, oh, it's an old gallic thing they never got rid of. Got over it. Well, round of applause for Ben. Thank you. But still, as I say, I think a little bit of room to go definitive on that. 10. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. I was going to say something funny then, and say, or as they'd say in French, but there's no joke I can do there, is there? It would be. No, I shouldn't really have mentioned it. Sorry. Mike's and Arundel. Mike, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. 15th time for cooler e. I just want to get that out. Well played. Yeah. Don't start a habit, though, please, because there'll be hell to pay if everyone does that. If I asked I wonder about the french speaking part of the Belgium being the Ardennes. I wonder if they do their numbers. Anyway, that's an interesting observation. What about. I'm wondering about spiders. Can a spider get caught? Another spider's web? Didn't we do this? Reason just. Could you excuse me a moment, Mike? I'm just going to speak to my colleagues. Is anyone paying attention? Didn't we do this about a month ago? Can I spot Keith? Hello. We did, didn't we? Thank you. But why is he. Don't all start arguing with each other. We're all on the same team, for heaven's sake. Honestly. But I just thought. I thought if it's got all the way to air. And we answered it about a month ago and I can't. Obviously, I can't remember the answer now, I'm 50 years old, but yes, yes, a spider can get caught on another spider's web. No, I've forgotten. No, I've forgotten. I'm going to have to leave it on the board. Where were you last web? It was about a month ago. Why aren't you tuning in every week? Well, I don't know. I can't always get a seat when I drive a truck, so when I can, I always listen when I can't, you know? Yeah. It's a fair answer as well. All right, I shall try and find out for you, but as a general rule, you can't. I mean, it's not Mike's fault, it's everybody else's fault, except mine. Especially Keith. Keith, this is part of your job, mate. You're supposed to be in charge. You're supposed to be in charge. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1233. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Well played to Nathaniel, who just heard me blaming the fact that Mike got through with a question about spiders that we dealt with a month ago. He heard me blaming it on everybody except myself and texted very quickly. This is the shaggy fication of James O'Brien. That's a bit of an in joke there for people who listen properly every day. Not like, oh, Mike can't get a signal sometimes in a flipping egg. And Keith didn't say it wasn't me in my ear. If anyone thinks they heard that he heard. He said Amelia Cox in my ear so that I would be aware of who the newsreader was going to be in the last bulletin. Back to mystery hour. Rick's in Manchester. Rick, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Yeah, I was just curious about nursery rhymes and the background. Some of them are quite horrific, really, when you think of Humpty Dumpty free blind mice. But then when you go into things like oranges and lemons, it's got the line about, here comes a candle to light you to bed, here comes a chopper to chop off your head. I was wondering why they're so gruesome, really, when they're supposed to be said to children. I mean, children quite like gruesome stuff, as Roald Dahl and David Walliams would tell you. More memorable as well. Humpty Dumpty, I think, is about a canon originally. It has a sort of historical. It was something fell off a castle wall or something like that, but I mean. Yeah. Do you know what? I don't know if there'll be an answer to this, Rick. I'll put it on the board. But I think it's probably because children quite like Grimm stuff, don't they? Which is why, I mean, fairy. The brothers Grimm, actually, funnily enough, Grim with one m and with two m's. But the original versions of the brothers Grimm tales are beyond, um, a gory. The. The way in which I think the. The stepmother in, in Snow White meets her end is absolutely. Do you know what they do come. They got. They get some metal boots and they heat them up in a fire so that they're absolutely scalding hot. And then they force her feet into them so that it all fuses and melts and she then has to stomp around in them for the rest of her life. I think that Snow White is certainly one of them. So I think they've always been pretty, um. Yeah, pretty gruesome because kids like gruesome stuff. They never like this all. Yeah, I mean, the ring, a ring, a rose. That's almost like a bit of warning, isn't it? That's about the plague, I think. Although that might be apocryphal, it might be one of those things everybody thinks they know, but turns out not actually to be true. But certainly everybody thought it was about the plague. I thought, well, listen, I'll put it. Why are nursery rhymes so gruesome? And then the answer, I don't know if anyone can go definitive on it. They're also cautionary tales, aren't they? Sometimes I think someone's just texted that they're cautionary tales. Really? Yeah. The one that really picked up me was the oranges and lemons. I couldn't understand why it suddenly went so dark after being so light and melodious, effectively. Say that again. Sorry? Yeah. Why did oranges and lemon suddenly go so dark? Being quite. You know, it's quite a pleasant rhyming. Yeah, yeah. Again, probably just because, you know, the grim bit appeals more to the children. Grim with one m. I shall listen. It's on the board, Rick. We shall find. Find out. 1237 is the time. Why are nursery rhymes so gruesome? Can a spider catch a spider? Why do lullabies work? Why don't the french have proper numbers for 70, 80, 90 and the like? No, Ben kind of half answered that. Listen, I'm going to have to start a trade union or something. If it carries on like this, it's like, take industrial action. How do chilis work? How do they burn your mouth without burning your mouth? Why can't you tell that a straight road is a hill, is going up a hill? And do humans, did humans ever schedule their childbirth, if you like, for the spring, in the way that so many other animals do? We need some answers now. Come on. Alex is in Nottingham. Alex, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Alex. So it's about the last one, about whether humans schedule their births in spring. It's not so much about scheduling, it's the fact that different animals have different reproductive cycles. So we, as humans, have a reproductive cycle based on the lunar month, 28, roughly 28 days. So we menstruate every 28 days and we're fertile every 28 days. But with animals, it's quite different. So lambs, for instance, sheep, they'll come into season in the autumn, and that's why they end up having their lambs in the spring. Dogs, for instance, will come at these in a couple of times a year. So they're only actually fertile at certain times of the year. So then, in terms of their gestation period, for how long they carry each baby depends on when they eventually have them, at what time of year. And twas ever thus? Yes, I imagine so offspring is going to be linked to the animal kingdom, even though we use it in the context of humans? Yeah, exactly. Because, I mean, obviously we. And there'll be an evolutionary reason for animals to have done this, because the likelihood of their babies surviving is going to be higher if they're born in spring, because they're not going to get cold and hungry like they would if they were born in December or something like that. So there's a reason for their cycles evolving over millions of years. Whereas with humans, once we've mastered the art of shelter and. And storing food, then there'd be no need, there'd be no evolutionary advantage to having a cycle. I wonder whether very, very early humans had a different cycle. Do you know that? I don't know. I'm more basing it on what I know from the animal kingdom and why they have their reproductive cycles. So, like prey species, it makes sense for them all to give birth at the same time. Safety in numbers. They'll be up and running around pretty quickly after they're born. So again, that's why they tend to be more in the spring months, whereas predators like your dogs or cats, it doesn't matter. And humans, I guess, are in the predator class, aren't they, rather than the predator. Exactly. Oh, a beautiful answer. That's right. Because I was just thinking about all the little signets and goslings around my way that have been. I get so invested in them, I don't know whether. Are you a vet, is that right? Yeah. That's your qualifications on this? I find the emotional attachment hard to avoid with little fluffy birds and I keep count and it's quite grim how many of them disappear in the course of a season. There's one couple of swans near us who I think are older. They've kept seven on the go and they've all made it to adolescence. And then there was another pair on the ear canal who only had three to start with and went down to one. I think they're very young. Does that make sense? Would older, more experienced swans be better at protecting their signets? I think that would make sense, yeah. Any sort of inexperienced mothers don't necessarily. They'll have some instincts, but experience always helps with that sort of thing. I think it's the herons. I think it's their heron. I used to like herons, but they're like nasty, dinosaur like birds. The herons get the little chicks and the little. Sorry, this is not what you were expecting when you rang in, is it, Alex? No, I have to say, I'm not specializing in the wildlife quite so much these days. Would you like a round of applause? Yes, please. There you go. Beautiful. So now we know why it is different. We don't know for sure whether or not early humans would have been on a different cycle, but it seems unlikely. 1241 is the time. Hannah is in Burnham. Hannah, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Hannah, how do women get over the menopause when changing levels of estrogen and progesterone. Don't come back. Are you sure you found the right program? It sounds like some sort of medical hour that you've accidentally been put through to from the olden days of LBC. No, I was just curious. Well, I'm curious as well, but it's a slightly odd question for mystery, Harry. I mean, it does sound like something that's quite important, for example. Yeah, but I guess in many respects, I wanted to raise awareness of it as well, because when I speak to people, people often don't know the answer to that and they don't know where to look and don't know where to start in terms of finding out about it. But oftentimes when I also speak to people, they say, oh, I'm over that. And I like, how can I be over it? How can you be over it when you haven't gone back to where you were before? So it's something different, isn't it, post menopause, from. Maybe it's just like a hangover. Maybe it's just like a hangover and. No, I mean this like a massive hangover. And as you. As you get used to the decline in the amount of hormones, it feels terrible. But then eventually the hormones have reached their new level and slowly your body and your brain get used to it. And Bob's your uncle. I'm not going to go to fit. Yes. I'm not going to give myself a round of applause for that one, Hannah. I think fair's fair. Just read the question again. How do women get over the menopause when changing levels of estrogen and progesterone don't come back? Yeah, I like that. Okay, you're on. I shall try and find out for you. It must be a fair. No, thank you very much. It must be a fairly straightforward answer, I'd imagine, raising Cardiff Ray. Question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Carry on. It's about the lullabies and how the lullabies work. Carry on. And you were pretty near the mark when you said it's about. Oh, yes, the womb. In fact, what happens when the fetus is in the womb is that there is what's called a triple meter, a sort of three in a bar beat that is rocking and swaying and that actually relaxes the fetus in the womb. So lullabies mimic that once they're born. And in fact. And when we play lullabies, tape lullabies to babies in scaboo or intensive care, their oxygen levels improve, their respiratory rates improve their cardiovascular function, improve and their signs of inflammation decrease. So there is a real physiological and psychological effect to why and how lullabies work. And what do they all have in common musically? Do you know? I sense that your expertise isn't in music, it's in medicine. But do we know what it is? No. No. I'm a drummer and the three in the bar has been identified because I'm also an associate professor in life sciences at the University of South Wales. I've looked into what would you rather be, if I could give you three wishes. What would you rather be? A professor of life sciences or a famous rock and roll drummer of rock and roll drama? Hands down, every time. You didn't even pause. Didn't even pause. And can I just quickly say about the menopause? No, you know you can't do that. Sorry. I mean, no, you're only allowed to answer one question. Rules are rules. Okay? Even for. Even for drumming professors of life science, and you've already told us, you. Hang on, don't go yet. You get one of these. Very nicely played. Uh, 1245 is the time. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1248 is the time. I sometimes think of questions that might be phone ins and might not. I should probably have a conversation with colleagues before I decide. But does. Did your attitude to the royal family change when the age of the prominent people. So when I look at Prince William, who's. When I look at William Windsor, who's celebrating his 40th birthday this week, and think about him becoming king, I feel very differently from how I do about the thought of the queen being queen, or even Prince chop, or even Charles Windsor being king. I don't know why. I think. I think that sense of natural injustice kicks in when it's someone your own age or younger, you say, well, what the hell would I. How can he be my king? Some kid. I don't know. Is there a topic in that, do you think? Probably not. One thing this week that I decided wasn't going to justify a topic was, turns out, lots of it. Turns out that restaurants are really loud. I thought I was going a bit deaf because I can never hear people talking when I'm in restaurants. But it turns out it's quite a widespread problem that has been written about, including a rather jolly piece in the Times today. Anyway, I digress. Okay. Joe's in Barnett. Joe, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, Joe. So it's about peppers you were on the right line with. You said caps and I think. But it's capsaicin. Capsaicin? Capsaicin, yeah, yeah. Capsaicin in chilis, they activate. There's a protein called trpv one, which is the same protein when we sense burning or pain. So it activates that protein when we eat it and that's what causes the burning syndrome. Do we know why? Do we know why it activates it? Would it be to discourage you from eating it? Or. I mean, evolutionarily, if that's the correct word to use? I would imagine so. I would imagine our bodies are quite. To maintain homeostasis, you know, a sense of order. We would prefer not to have things that hurt. Love it. So that would activate the protein. But interestingly, people who eat spicy foods can grow a tolerance to it so that the receptors can be dulled down and therefore they go hotter and hotter and hotter to try and. Yeah. And is there. I mean, in the context of real burns as in heat, does the protein do anything? Does it serve a purpose? Is it a sort of emergency response? Do we know? It would be the. It would be the emergency response to remove the stimulus. So. God, that hurts. Get off. Take your hand off the plate. Quick sort of thing. Exactly. I love it. Qualifications? I'm currently studying for the entrance exams for med school and they use capsaicin in certain areas of medicine, like arthritis, as research. And I was looking into it and how capsaicin works. Fantastic and good luck. Have a round of applause. Thank you very much. What a clever bunch we are on mystery. Stuart's ingranit. Stuart, question or answer? Answer. James tarry on. So it's the spider question. And the answer is that spiders can get stuck in other spiders webs, but equally, they can also get stuck in their own web. Can they? Because. Yeah, so basically, the whole web itself isn't sticky, it's slight little globules or little droplets of stuff that sort of put all around the web. And the spider who made the web obviously knows where they are, so they avoid them, whereas any other spider wouldn't and would therefore potentially get stuck. So if you took a spider from its own web and threw it back at the web, into the bit, into the sticky bit, how do they get to their prey, then, if the prey is on a sticky bit? Well, ultimately the prey is stuck on the sticky bit and covering it, isn't it? So they can still get round the path that they know, which is why they wouldn't necessarily just go straight to it. Yeah, maybe. Qualifications. So there's two parts to this. One is, I didn't hear it on mystery hour last month, but I think I heard it on mystery hour many, many moons ago. And then we went to a zoo and I was very quietly whispering the answer to my children so that they thought I was very clever. Yeah. They're still young then, are they? They're still young. They are indeed. Make the most of that, mate. It doesn't last. Seriously? Quite the opposite. They still think I know everything. Yeah. The more, in fact, the cleverer you are as you get older, the less impressed your children will be. So, seriously, mate. Hey. While that particular sun shines. Definitely. But yeah. And then obviously the expert that was showing the spiders said exactly the same thing that I'd heard previously on Mystery House many, many moons ago. Round of applause. Thank you very much. Beautifully done, Stuart. Nicely done, spiders. There we go. Mike's question. Stuart's answer. 1253 is the time Louise is in Matlock. Louise, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about the menopause. Oh, yes. So basically when women stop producing estrogen, the estrogen receptors aren't activated anymore. So the estrogen receptors to keep your skin a little bit softer so your skin gets harsher, they keep your boobs nice and part which is why. Speak for yourself. Speak for yourself, Luis. And it's just the estrogen that oestrogen things that stop your period stop and your body starts aging and the protective effect of estrogen, but they never go back up again. So how can you say that you're over the menopause? That's what Hannah wanted to know. How can it be over if the levels have stayed low? Stayed because. Because you're you just your body adapts to the fact that there's no longer oestrogen. You just get used to it anymore. You just get used to it like a hangover. I'm going to be trashed. I'm entire by women everywhere. Because you just get used to it. But is that the correct medical answer? Well, pretty much, yeah. You. Your body adapts to things and there's no longer estrogen. Your cardiovascular risk go up to equivalent to a man. Which isn't good. No, definitely not. What are your qualifications? I'm a doctor. Well, that's it then. What are you worried about? You're a doctor. That's a cat to get out of jail free cartwheel with one of those rather obvious exceptions. Yes. A round of applause for Louise. Very nicely done. 1254 is the time James is in. Royston. James, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Let's us to the nursery rhyme question, in fact, that, you know, the children's stories are still dark now, as they were back. They are. Roald Dahl, David Wallion. Yes, exactly. Oh, and Terry deary as well. The horrible history is really focusing on the grim stuff, don't they? That's right. And kids love it. Yeah, they do. That really goes back down. Back down to the nursery rhyme St. Oranges, lemons. That was a condemned man on his way to the gallows. Which way? Have the sounds of the bells in London. On his way to. Oh, I didn't know that. I knew it was the bells in London. But obviously, as the journey unfolds and he gets closer to Tiber and then the song gets darker, the lyrics get darker. That's right. As you know, kids remember themes and remember tunes and lyrics quite easily as way of, you know, educating them in a non dark way. But in a dark way. That makes sense. Yeah, it does. You use the shivers to get the lesson across. I mean, that probably is where horrible histories would be the best example, actually, isn't it? Yeah. Of illiteracy for children as well. Great stuff, great stuff. Qualifications, history, degree. Beautifully done. Thank you. Thank you. Annie's in Bromley. Annie, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. A question, please. Why do they weigh jockeys and motor racing drivers after their races? To make sure they haven't nicked anything. Well, to see how much they've lost. I don't know. What's the point? To see how much weight they've lost in the race. Oh, okay. Isn't it? I don't know. Do I think it might be for different reasons? Oh, no, it's just because there's limits or there's weight limits on cars and on. I'm assuming they all have lost weight anyway. Yeah. So you get weighed before and you get weighed after to make sure that you haven't cheated in any way. By, like, getting. By carrying weights? Yeah, by carrying weights when you went into the pre race way. No, this is what you do. You'd have a sort of bag of flour in your pocket or something like that. Or stuff down the front of your trunk. Something in their trousers. And then. Yes, exactly that. And then when you come back out of the race, they weigh you again to make sure that it makes sense. That's bound to be it. Like a handicapping process. Okay, round of applause for me. Thank you very much. Round of applause for me. There's no time for anyone to challenge me on that one, he says, glancing at the clock. Helen's in Henley. Question or answer? Answer. More information on an answer. Is it the french numbers, then? Because that's the one. Go on. What have you got? It is. Well, I don't know how much more there was that I can give, but it was basically the viking system that was then taken over by the Normans. This is the system where they went up in twenties, and then it's when the french republic spread, then they retained that system, and Belgium and Switzerland, for example, went to a different system. So, instead of saying soixant dix, they do. But not the Canadians, apparently. The original question, or Ben may have got that slightly wrong, but Belgium and Switzerland do. Definitely. Septent octante nu font. Exactly. Yeah, but the thing is, the french colonials came from France, so that's why the canadian system adopted the same system as the French and retained this clumsy way of saying it. I see. So. So they. So. So what came first is the Viking, then the Normans system. So then the French kept it and the other tribes of northern Europe. Exactly. Adopted. Decided not to. French for you call it sacra blood. Question. Qualifications. Helen, please. I have an honours degree in French and I've lived here for 18 years. There we go. What do you mean, you've lived here for 18 years? You're in Henley. Well, I've lived. Well, I am part time in Henley and a lot of time in France. Oh, very nice. And you haven't been here, the tax inspector, or not? No, no. Don't worry. Your secret's safe with me, John. I won't tell you, Pierre. I won't tell anybody. We're doing brexit tomorrow, I think, as a phone in. Just to give you a heads up, Sheila Fogarty stole my act yesterday. I couldn't believe it. She went. She went. Round of applause for Helen, please. You're not allowed to mention it. If you met a friend in Ascot earlier. Last word on this. Simon in Coombe. Martin in Devon. Simon. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about the racing. Driving. Yes. They had to stop Formula one teams from cheating, because the Formula one teams would run with less liquid in the car. They would run the cars underweight, so they would go faster during the weight, during the race, and then at the end of the race, they'd then fill up with extra liquid. So she asked why they're weighing the driver. Because they had to separate out so the drivers. Oh, so they can deduct the weight of the driver from the weight of the car? Yeah. So then they have to. So then they can. I'm out of time. Sheila's here. Have a round of applause anyway. And the winner is, I think, more for sentimental reasons. It's going to be Sam with the lullaby question because he's bringing those two little twins home soon and they're going to need to do something while they're up all night doing double feed. So why not play mystery out and wait for the kids to grow up and join in? We'll do all again tomorrow from ten, including, I think, as things stand, the Brexit phoning, because things are getting really ridiculous now. Here's Sheila Fogarty.