Why do I keep doing terrible things?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, five minutes after twelve is. Everyone can relax now. Take it easy. Time for a bit of fun. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. There's also a prize, of course. My favourite contribution of the week will win a mystery hour board game. Rather splendid entertainment that is soon to be augmented by some extra questions. A new package of questions. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need to join in the terms and conditions governing the competition. Because we're very grown up now, don't, you know, can be found at LBC dot co dot UK dot. And the only real rule to remind you of at this point is obviously, don't look stuff up. If you hear someone ask a question, only ring in with the answer if you already know the answer. And I don't care how you know the answer, whether you saw it on telly last night or whether you are one of the world's leading experts in the field under discussion, both equally valid. Mystery hour qualification. And there it goes. That is, you know, do you do this every week? I think I'm going to have a couple. I think I might even mention that myself on mystery. And then I forget I had one this week, a really important one that I really want. I've got to start writing stuff down. It's pathetic, really. Six minutes after twelve's a time. Mystery hour is upon us. Done the terms and conditions? I've done the giveaway. Da da da da da da. Just crack on, shall we? I think, shall we? Everyone happy? Everyone good? Let's go. Mike's in Marlo. Mike, question or answer? Yeah. Good morning, James. That's a question. Why do Europeans. That is, Italians, Spanish, you know, Portuguese. Why do they have such an affinity with coffee? As in. As in, like espresso, as in their love of it? As in almost their ownership of it. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? Like the Italians, they have Illi and Lavazzo and, you know, they have all this stuff, like they invented it. You don't shit. I mean, I don't know if you have instant coffee, even in the countries that you preserve the English. You've actually reminded me of the question I wanted to ask this week, Michael. How spooky is that? Because I wanted to ask the same question about bread. You go to most other countries and you get your bread from a baker, you get it fresh every day and it has got no preservatives in it or, you know, processed food. I've been reading a lot about processed food, but in this country, most of us, if you ask what bread they've got in the house at the moment, it's going to be in a plastic bag, ready sliced. Why is that? What was it about this country that sort of squeezed bakeries out of the picture and went instead with processed process? But anyway, that's not the question. The question is, why don't we have. I mean, it's. We kind of do now, don't we? There's coffee shops everywhere. We do now. But it wasn't part of our cultural heritage. No, it was tea, wasn't it, for England? Well, that might be part of the answer there. You might have just stumbled across it. There is that. We drank. We drank tea. You had. Actually, I don't know, this could go a bit historical because you had. Coffee shops in the 18th century were a huge part of the Lions coffee houses. Yeah, well, no, that's not. I'm talking about on Fleet street. I'm talking about the sort of places that people like Samuel Johnson would hang out, maybe even the 17th century, actually. They started popping up and they became hotbeds of radicalism and political meeting houses. But you don't have, in the. In the 20th century, you didn't have that sense that if you went out for a drink, you were just as likely to have a coffee as you were to have a beer. Let's find out. Why does the UK. Why did the UK bypass european cafe culture? There it is. I got the question in the end. Eight minutes after twelve. Thank you, Mike. Rob's in Borden in Hampshire. Rob, question or answer? Here's a question, James, carry on. Bear with me on this one. All right? Was there a designated survivor for the coronation? How do you mean a lot? Well, my understanding is that the whole royal family was in the abbey and if the worst had happened, gosh, would there have been someone hidden away back at the palace to take over? That's a. I mean, I don't. It's a. It's a bit for carb, I know, but I just thought, you know, everyone's there. What happens if someone manages. I used to go out. I used to go out with a girl who, if her sister came to visit us in London, they had to promise their mum that they would walk on different sides of the street on different during the iras sort of period. And that's the same sort of thinking as lies behind your question. Yeah, I know. In the US, during the state of the union, there's a designated survivor who is hidden away somewhere. Is that a film? Is that. Did you learn that from a tv show with Kiefer Sutherland? Is it Kiefer Sutherland? I keep meaning to watch that. I keep meaning to watch. Brilliant. You should watch it. Big fan of Kiefer. Huge fan of Kiefer Sutherland. Good lord. Yeah. I mean, what the problem with this question is, is you're basically asking what would have happened if Westminster Abbey had fallen down, aren't you? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Would it have been Archie? And then I'll follow on with, what would the right wing media have made of that? That would have been a remarkable state of affairs. The entire line of succession. Who? Lord above. I mean, I think we know there wasn't, don't we? Otherwise it would have been mentioned. You'd have had. You'd had Hugh Edwards in his dulcet tones, explaining why the Duke of Watson wasn't there. In order to ensure that in the event of tragedy, the Queen Megan. Eh? That'd put a cat among the pigeons, wouldn't it? Exactly. Or Queen mother Megan, King mother Megan, whatever. I'll find out for you. Was there a designated survivor at the coronation? And was it? If so, was it Kiefer Sutherland? Turn up for the books. Thank you, Rob. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Mimi is in St Paul's in Toronto. Is that right? No, you're in St Paul's, but you're from Toronto. Yes, exactly. Hi, James. How are you? Very well, thank you. Mimi, why have you mentioned your country of origin in your contribution, rather than just whoever answered the phone for me asked if I was calling from Toronto? Because I have a Toronto number, I guess. There it is. There you go. Right now I'm outside St Paul's Cathedral. Fantastic. Interrupting your tourism to phone mystery? No, not at all. This is the most exciting part in Toronto. It's like, so seven in the morning. I'm not getting up that early. I don't blame you at all. What is the question? My question is, you know when you have, like, a glass of still water? Yeah. And it's left out for a while, it starts to form these bubbles. Yes. I'm wondering what causes that. Uh, it. I don't. I feel I should know that, Mimi. You mean in the water? Bubbles in the water appear when you leave it there for a while. I don't. I actually don't. I feel like. I feel. I feel I'm letting you down. I can't believe I. I sometimes I pause for a while and. And the answer does actually appear. It genuinely sort of just pops out of nowhere and comes into my head. And I was fully expecting it to do so on this one because I'm sure we've had it before, but it's not happening, so I shall put it on the board. Thank you so much. Well, thank you so much and enjoy. Enjoy the rest of your visit. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time. Beautiful down there where St Paul's is. That part of London, oddly enough, is where the coffee houses were that I was just talking to Mike about a minute ago. But the. I've got this obsession with. Obsession's a bit strong enthusiasm for views that haven't changed for hundreds of years. You don't come across many, obviously, in the countryside there's loads. But parts of London in particular, which is the city I know best. In York it would be the shambles, wouldn't it? In Birmingham you'd really struggle because it's mostly sort of 1960s 1970s architecture, but the views that haven't changed in hundreds of years. There are places around St Paul's you could stand and look down some of the alleyways that would have looked more or less the same when Samuel Pepys was writing his diaries. It's one of my favorite parts of London. And if you step off the beaten track a bit and head into some of the temples, the law temples, the temples of court, then you really feel as if you are stepping into the page of a history book. I love all that. 13 after twelve is a time. Mike's in wetzone. Mike, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Why do they have ashtrays in the toilets of modern airplanes when smoking has been banned on planes for at least 25 years? Has it been banned on all planes? Well, I was on a. A 380 the other day, which as far as I'm aware, they've only been in circulation for about ten years. Yeah. I can't believe that smoking has been legal on planes within the last ten years. Anywhere. Are we absolutely sure that. I'm trying to think of a sort of. I don't want to say a weird country, but there must be some airlines around the world where you can still smoke and therefore you're better off making it. I can't think of any other ones. I've only flown on a limited number of airlines, but I can't imagine in 2023 that smoking is legal on planes. What can I know? You come to mention. No, I know. I mean, it's. So why would you have them there? Can you use them for anything else? You put your chewing gum in it. Keith thinks, you know. Keith. Keith thinks he knows the answer to this one. Oh, yeah? Yeah. Um. It's not chewing gum, then, is it smoking? I mean, is it so. Because people will still smoke even though they're not supposed to. And it's much safer to put it in an ashtray than it is to put it down the toilet because the toilet will melt. There you go. That's what it is. I suppose that's a possibility. No, that is the answer. Although, actually, no, you know what? There's a provider there. I was standing in the queue to go to the toilet. Yeah. There was an ashtray on the outside of the toilet door as well as on the inside of the toilet. You've spot. You've changed your question now, mate. Can't do that. You'll have to ring in next week for that one. As you said at the beginning, every week I think of something to ask you by the time the show starts. I remember what it was. Yes, I know. That's not fair. Are we going to go definitive on that? Is that definitely the. Agreed? What your. How do you know what your qualifications? Sisters. Nurse, tutors. Yeah, that's all right. So ask me what my qualifications are. Mike, what are your qualifications? James Keith's sister is an air stewardess. Oh, I think. I think Keith's sister deserves a round of applause. I'll share. Lovely stuff. Do we know why there's one on the outside? No. What do you think? We are geniuses. Emma is in Stevenage. We will talk to her after this. It is 18 minutes after twelve. Here's a headline that you won't be seeing in any newspapers today or tomorrow. Brexit. Britain looks to french company to save crumbling borders and immigration tech. If you want to read that article, I've just tweeted it from my Twitter account. Mister Jamesob back to Mister Emma is in Stevenage. Emma, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Why is it that when you get into a bath that's just a little bit too hot, that you want to have a way, even if you didn't want to have a way before your bath? What are you talking about? No, you don't. Does it not happen to you? No, no. Yeah, of course it does. Yeah. I think I know this. Okay. And the reason why I think I know this is because we used to do this thing at school. Is it going to work, this? I was going to say it had something to do with body temperature, like the temperature of your blood in your body, and when you get the temperature the same, when it matches, then your bladder sort of kicks in. Because we used to put a lad's hand. I went to boarding school and they're very weird places. And all boys boarding schools in the 1980s were even weirder, I imagine, than they are now. And you used to put a lad's hand in a bucket of water. And if the temperature was right, it didn't happen very often, but they would occasionally wee themselves, which obviously we all thought was hilarious in the. In the dormitory. But now I've said that out loud, I can't actually remember whether it ever worked. I mean, we tried it a few times. I think they tried it on me, but I don't know whether it was just me. No, it's definitely not you. I mean, I'm not gonna. I'm not gonna take a round of applause for this one, but it is something to do, because do you not find you sometimes need a wee when you're swimming as well, even if it's not that hot? Or that might be. Yeah, that's usually because I've had too much to drink home on holiday. That's true. So you get into the warm bath and suddenly an entirely new urge to wee. It's not like any warm bath. It has to be like a. Quite a high temperature. It has to be just a little bit too. Yeah, a little bit too warm. Well, that might be just muscles relaxing or something like that. I shall find out. I'll stop speculating and I'll get you a proper answer. Emma, thank you. No, thank you. It is 21 minutes after twelve. Alex is in Cambridge. Alex, question or answer? It's an answer, James, carry on. So the coffee question, why is it more prominent in Europe? I phrased it rather better than that. In the end, Alex, I said, why was the United Kingdom bypassed by european cafe culture? Well, it's all. I suppose the cafe culture is an offshoot of the product itself. And like most tropical crops, which coffee effectively is, it's kind of. Its popularity trends very closely to the shifting patterns of empires. So coffee itself comes from East Africa, originates around Ethiopia, I think. Right. And it was made popular by the Ottomans during the 15th 16th century. Then it. So that's what that would explain its prevalence in that part of world, in Turkey and Egypt, you know, very famous for their coffee. But then it was taken by the French to the new world and the various new world empires, the Spanish, the Portuguese and then the italian trade as the trade states brought it back as a, what's called a backhaul cargo to fill up their holds, and as a marketable commodity. And so the commodity. So the commodity itself was freely available and very popular, as it was in the UK. So in Europe, it actually got popularized in northern Europe first round, sort of Holland, UK, and northern Europe itself. But when the british empire expanded east and you got what was called the India trade and the China trade, we used to bring a huge amount of tea back with us. And so we didn't have that much. After the american revolutionary wars, we didn't have as big a presence in the new world. We were eastern trade. So we used to bring tea back into the houses. Of course, they just got squeezed. I mean, they just got squeezed out. The coffee houses got squeezed out. Supply, access and providence just meant that all the effort went into flogging as tea instead of coffee. And what brought it back was what brought it back in a big way is these crops as a whole, like everything you know of nowadays, that is like a tropical tree plantation crop, like cocoa or rubber or palm oil. Everything pretty much started in one place and is now grown extensively, or the most majority of it is grown elsewhere, like coffee and stuff, is in the far east. Oil palm, which is a big west african crop, that's where it's native to, is now a big far eastern crop. Cocoa is from South America, now grown in West Africa, all moved around by colonial sort of padding, as it were. And so they end up going elsewhere. And the, the climate in Europe, which gives it the cafe trade that we don't really have here, is all due to the fact that everyone gets up very early, go to bed in the middle of the day, then stay up very late, and they do this. And coffee is a big part of that. Even in Italy now, it's illegal to charge more than a certain amount for an espresso. You can go to prison for it. Yeah, if you charge more. If you go. It's very rare, it happens, but you'll. You'll be hard pushed to find an espresso for more than a year or two. And it's because it's considered a. It's considered. It's got cultural value, in a sense. So that's it. That's a beautiful answer. What on earth are your qualifications? Well, I made, um. I used to make coffee cups at one point, and before that I had, um, I worked in tropical plantations in West Africa. I didn't grow coffee myself, but a friend did. We used to grow coco. So just became very interested by the subject. And it makes. I mean, it's a perfect answer because it makes. It makes absolute sense, doesn't it? And I guess the tea houses started appearing in London around about the end of the 19th century and they would have no, far earlier, much earlier than the 18th century, and they would have squeezed out the coffee houses. And that's where Lloyd's comes from. So Lloyd's insurance was done in Lloyd's. Lloyd's coffee house, which then brought about Lloyds bank and Lloyds and Stuart Steel, which was a massive steel producer, and Lloyd's insurance. And they all came back there, I think. A big round of applause for Alex. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you very much. That's why we love mischief. David is in Woking. David, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So stick with me. We've got lots of surnames that reflect historical professions, right? Yeah. Car drive, stuff like that. Cooper. Right, yeah. But they're all land based. You rarely come across a Lawrence Netmaker. You don't come across Bob. You come across Bob Cartwright, but not Bob shipwright. Hang on a minute. What about. What about. What about the Ipswich town legend, Paul Mariner? No, no, you're right. No, no, don't get me wrong. It's not that they don't exist, but they barely exist. We don't have names for people who catch fish, who make nets, who. Who repair lines, who gut fish, who sell fish. We have lots of people called butcher, no one called fishmonger. So my question is, why do surnames not reflect sea based professions? Why do they reflect land based professions? It's a complicated question, but a good one. Right. Well, I don't know, because I think. I mean, until he brought the fishing industry into it, I think I was going to be quite dismissive of this one, because the answer would be obvious. There's so many, many, many more people on land than there are on sea. As the years pass and the world turns, the disappearance of various names. I was at school with a lad called. I'm sorry to interrupt, but hold on. At the times when surnames came into being, at the times when surnames came into being, there would have been a lot of people engaged in the fishing business, as many as there would be in the land based business, like agriculture and so and so on and so forth. No way would there be. That's like saying there's as many coastal towns as there are in land towns. No, no. At the point in time that surnames became useful to differentiate between people with the same first name. No, you're definitely not. Of course you're not. Seriously. Of course you're not. Right, seriously. Any more than. I mean, when did surnames come in? When did I. No idea. And I'm not allowed to ask that question. Let's bear in mind, I am, though. I make the rules up as I go along. I can, I can do what I want. I think the answers going to be numbers, isn't it? I mean, I bet there was a name, fishmonger, and it just went. I bet there was and it went out of fashion. You may be right. And I bow in your presence, but I don't know the answer and I still think my question is valid, even if I've got no idea what I'm talking about. All right, I will ask. Why are so few surnames rooted in maritime history? Your gentleman. No, I mean, if there's a good answer to it, I'll be delighted. I mean, a little embarrassed for being dismissive, but 52% delighted at the discovery, at learning something new every day. Thank you. I like that. It's a thoughtful question. Certainly. 28 minutes after twelve is the time. I'll take Michael's call and then I'll run through the questions that are still on the board. Michael's in Leicester. Where were you born, Michael? Where am I born? Yeah. New Zealand. Yeah. I could tell that by looking at you. Absolutely. It's an in joke. I don't know if people were listening in the last hour to understand why that was a slightly cheeky little joke. Question or answer? Michael, I've got an answer for you. Carry on. Okay, so it's about the bubbles in the glass of water. Yes. So water has gases dissolved in it. Oxygen, carbon dioxide, much the same way as you could dissolve salt, sugar, anything. Right. The weird thing about gases is that they do the opposite to salt and sugar in that they're more soluble when the water's cold. So as the water heats up, because it's come out the tap, out the fridge, whatever, the gases start coming out of the water and you can see them. And what. And what would the gas be? Would it be oxygen, carbon dioxide, anything contained within the h two o, as it were? Yeah. Or anything in the atmosphere that it's been sort of sloshing about. There you go. So it makes perfect sense, doesn't it? Yeah. Qualifications? Chemistry teacher. Oh, fantastic. Round of applause for Michael. Yes, thank you. Coming up to 12:30 questions. Still in need of answers. This one's a bit. Was there a designated I don't know why I'm whispering. It doesn't change. Was there a designated survivor? Was there a designated survivor at the coronation? That's what Rob wants to know. I think it's quite an unsuitable question for the record, but this is, you know, your show as much as mine. The bubbles question we've done. What explains the urge to urinate in a hot bath? Zero 345-606-0973 and why are there so few maritime surnames? Surnames that hark back to an ancestor's water. I nearly said waterworks there we'd be back to Emma's question about weeing in the bath. The hark back to a water based livelihood. It's 12:30 Amelia Cox is here with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 right, get David back. Get David back on the phone because I knew something was bothering me about that question and I want to point it out to him. While you do that, I'll just give you an update on one of our recent mystery out board game winners, which was the lovely Jen in Stilton, who's having a terrible time at the moment, but who did have some happiness brought into her life after mum brought the mystery out game into the hospital where Jen is staying and she's given it to the ward. It's been played loads of times, has brought so many smiles and laughs to some very poorly people and nurses. So there you go. Mystery hour. The mystery hour board game reaching parts that other board games cannot reach. You can get your own copy, of course, at mysteryour dot co dot Uk dot. David in Woking with the question about why there are no maritime surnames. David. What did I say? Fisher Fischer. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, Fisher. Well, yeah. What? You've. You've just bothered me for that? Yeah. Fisher. It's a huge name. You were talking like there weren't any Fisher. No, no, it was David Seaman. Thank you. Well, yeah, okay. Merchant could be anything. Well, yes, okay, but it's hardly a rebuttal, is it? Fisher, Mariner, Seaman. How much more do you want? There's not a lot left. Makers. Well, apart from Cooper make barrels. They go on ships. You're so right. I'm not so glad you phoned me back. Yeah, thank you. I hope you weren't busy. We'll leave the que. We'll leave the question on the board. But I wasn't. I mean. Fisher. It's my mate James McVeigh out the vamps who probably should be doing something more constructive than listening to this. Pointed that out by text. So thank you, James. And I can't let the Fisher go unnoticed. No maritime names. Literally Fisher still on the board, mind. Tom is in Leicester. Another. Where were you born tomorrow? Manchester. I could tell that by looking at you. A lot of calls coming in from Leicester today. Question or answer, Tom? Answer, I think. Carry on. So it's about the ashtrays and the airplane. Okay. Stewards inquiry. So, yeah, exactly. So, basically, it's only illegal to smoke on an airplane if you're on a public transport flight, so commercial. A commercial flight, as it were. Yeah, correct. Yeah, exactly. So to sell tickets, an airline has to be operating under an AOC air operator certificate, and to do that, they have to meet certain regulations, so you can't. One of those is you can't smoke on a public transport flight or a commercial flight. However, if you were rich enough to buy your own airplane, then you would smoke on your own aeroplane. Do what you want on it. Yeah. So basically, in the toilets, I believe, most airlines now, when you buy the planes, the seats are sort of an extra bit, so they can be a bit more choosy. Whereas the toilets are effectively fitted to the aircraft. It's a standard fit. So you have to have ashtrays, because if you were rich enough, you could buy your own 737 and smoke on it. I knew an old colleague used to fly a business jet for a prominent minor royal who basically was a smoker, and he had his own airplane. It was a very nice business jet, so he could smoke on it. So it's very nice. But it's stank of cigarettes, apparently, so you have to buy it with a. With a. So there's only. You could. You have to buy. I mean, it might be an addition to the answer, but, yeah, you can't. You can't buy it without one, because if you've got two customers that want one, there's no loss in giving it to everyone, whereas if you haven't got one, then the two customers who want one can't have one. Yeah, yeah, exactly. And also, I suppose if someone does have a cigarette in the toilet, at least it's there. But I think the main answer is that it's only legal on public transport flights. So if you're rich enough to buy an airplane, you could do what you want. Qualifications. I know you've already told us, but just to clarify, airline pilot. Round of applause for Tom. I like that one. I don't think we take back Keith sister's round of applause. It's an addition to the. To the general question. I've got one phone line for you, if you're quick. I've still got time for more questions. My inbox has now gone nuts and it takes me a while to work out why sometimes. Why is everyone sending me these names? So you've got Captain Haddock in Tintin. There are people called Haddock around the place. You've got Sturgeon and Salmon. They are names. You've got Michael Fish, Boatman. A couple of actors called Boatman shipment. Yeah, all right, you've got. This is quite funny. There's loads called my mate Johnny Submarine Kipper. It's not that there aren't that many kippers around the place. Everyone's sending me. That's what I meant. But why is everyone sending me the name ship. The word shipman in my. But that's. That's why Shipman would be something of a maritime origin. There's lots more as well. Purser. Purser. Chandler. Chandler. Chandler is a good one. Purser is a good one. So I think. I think that question might be answering it. Carrie Fisher, Dennis Waterman, Peter Hook, Michael Fish. That's from David. He's gone. He's actually gone quite specific on that waterman as well. Yeah, you're right. We could go on Rigg. I don't think Diana Rigg is going to count. Is it maybe Phillips in Mason? Philip. Question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. I've just won the London marathon. Oh, well done. So did Henry Riley, actually, who was here yesterday. I forgot to congratulate him. Well done. Thank you. And it's not my first, and it was awful. And I hate marathon, and I always say, never again. Oh, and yet two days later, I'm signing up to another one. Yeah. So my question is, what. What makes us with some things go back to things that we know are terrible? Well, I think we've all. I'm sure you. You may have had a hangover in the past that made you say never again, but then you have a drink again. Yeah, but. Yeah, I know that's not the same thing. That burns me. Some things, you know, to stay away from, but some things, even though, you know, we're awful, you go back to. I. Oddly, I'm thinking about writing books while you describe that, because last time I finished a book, I thought, I'm never doing that again. And yet here I am. There you go. Here I am in the same hellish scenario. Well, the answer is how good you feel when you finish, isn't it? No. You know, at that point. No, because you feel horrendous. I mean, a few days. I didn't mean that. I don't mean literally. I mean. I mean, that sense of satisfaction that you have is like nothing else. Surely it's one of the greatest achievements of your life to have run marathons. No, I don't know. Well, I mean, I don't know what else you've done, of course. So I don't. I don't want to be. I don't want to be presumptuous. I wasn't going to mention this, but one was good. The one where I got the world record for the fastest marathon dressed as Mister potato head. That one. There you go. That's the greatest achievement of your life. But, yeah. So why do we do it? I think it's because of the satisfaction. It's a good question, but hopefully a psychologist will tell us. I mean, you could. Could you be addicted to the endorphins or something like that, do you think? Maybe, but it certainly doesn't feel like it at the time. No. And. But are you going to do another one? Absolutely. Well, so you're already in that zone. It took me a lot longer than you. You only finished it a couple of weeks ago and you're ready to do another one? Yeah, I signed. I signed up the following day. I'm sure you hate that. Hang on a minute. You signed up the following day, then you don't hate it, do you? But I know what I do. Clearly don't know. If you hated it, you wouldn't sign it. You'd give it six months and you'd be like, oh, no, I've got that itch again. I'm gonna have to scratch it. Oh, I really don't want it. You signed up the next day, man. Well, okay, I think with London, because you don't know if you're gonna get in, so you put your name in the hat, thinking, well, I probably won't get in anyway. And then when your name comes up. All right, all right, I'll put it on the board, fit it, but I'm not. I'm not 100% convinced by the premise of your question. I think you just want. I just think you wanted a wider audience to be aware of your mister potato head record and that you smuggled it in. People might try and take it off me. But whilst it was a wonderful question, I already have your board game, James, so do let someone else. Oh, how sweet of you. I shall, I shall exclude you from consideration for it. That's. That's very, very nice. I'm still getting sent flipping maritimes. Right. Coming from shipwright. But it could come from wheelwright. But you're right, you're right. You see, what I didn't know. Andy's in Morden. Andy, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Carry on. I noticed during the king's coronation that there is a distinctly different drum sound between the english military regiments and the scottish military regiment. Really? Yeah. The Scots, to me, sound as though they've got a much deader, less percussive drum sound, whereas the English seem to have a much more percussive drum sound. And I wonder why this is. Is it a tradition when they're dancing? It's obvious. It's. Go on, then. Scottish drums are tighter. Sorry. To my scottish friends and listeners, that was a very lazy stereotype. Racial. And also it's the opposite, isn't it? When you say percussive, you sort of mean bouncier, I think. Do you? Yeah. So it sounds as though the drumbeat is much, much deader on the. Which would mean it was slacker. It would mean the skin was slacker on the drum, not tighter. I don't know. That's what I'm saying. When you say deader, that's. Oh, I see. We don't know enough about drums to answer that question. Okay. Well, I mean, I like questions that are based on something that only the questioner has noticed. So there's always the slight danger that it's just not true. And you've gone a bit do lalally and you've imagined something wrong with my ears. It could be. So it's unlikely, though, isn't it, that you'd have a different. Your ears would have a different reaction to a scottish drum than an english drum, military drum. But we shall. We shall try and find out for you. I really like it, by the way. By the way, with Fisher, would that have some sort of religious, biblical connotation to it? Well, as in, I shall be a fisher of men, John the Fisher. Yeah, could be. Could be. But either way, it's still maritime, isn't it? It's still. It's still. He literally said. He literally said, why not? You don't have anyone named after Fisherman, do you? He literally said that on the radio, didn't he? I didn't imagine it. But there's this maritime. I mean, you could be a fisherman, but you don't go on the sea to be a fisherman. Well, you're still. I think if you're doing it for a living, you'd be better off going in the sea, wouldn't you, rather than just sitting on a riverbank and crossing your fingers coming up to quarter to one. I need some answers. Okay. Was there a design? I mean, can we give someone a round of applause for ringing in and saying no on the designated survivor cr? I mean, you'd need to have qualifications, all right? So you can't just ring and say, no. No, I say qualifications say, well, so you've got to know why. You know that it's no, if you follow what I mean. Was there a designated survivor at the coronation? Why do we feel the need to wee in hot baths? Zero. 345-606-0973 why are there so few maritime surnames? Brackets. There aren't close brackets, but feel free to have a crack at that, if you please. Why does Philip want to run more marathons, even though he says he hates them? You get the psychology. Why am I writing another book? That's the money, innit? And the fame. Why is. I mean, why is Philip. Why do we do things we hate? And why do scottish drums, military drums, sound different to Andy than english military drums? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those questions, we need to take a couple of the. There's no point telling me to try to get more answers if the board is full of people with questions, because the people with the answers won't be able to get through, will they? It's 1245, mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1249 is the time. On we go. Billy's in pilacry in the Highlands. Billy, question or answer? It's a question, James. How should I have pronounced that name? Patlocry. Oh, I got it. Right. Well, fantastic. I thought so. Sounds beautiful. Are you outside? I'm outside in the park with the dog. Oh, glorious. What's the question? The question is, James, you know how you can look inwards with your eyes to your nose? Yeah. Why can't you do the same outwardly? I think some people. What? You mean, why can't you go the opposite? Across eyed. Go wide eyed? Yeah. Yeah. Are you sure you can. I'm trying to do it now. I must look very strange. Are you sure you can't do that? You can't do it. Well, you can. You. But only one side at a time. Yeah, but when you do it with your nose, you. So you can draw them into. You can draw your eyes towards each other, but you can't push them out, away from each other. Exactly. Well, why would you want to? I will, maybe. And that's the answer? That's the answer. It would be beneficial. It would not be beneficial. No, it would not be beneficial, would it? Because you can only see one picture, even though got two eyes. So even. Even when you try and look at your nose and go all cross eyed, you can't see anything. That's. That's a design fault. That's the design fault. There is the fact that you can go cross eyed. That's no use to anyone. There's never a situation in which you find yourself in nature and think, oh, I need to go cross eyed. Unless you're trying to look at a zit on the end of your nose. Well, I think it's a design fault because if you could tuck your eyes out at the end of your eyes, if you could extend them that, what then? You wouldn't be able to. Nothing would make sense. Would it not be beneficial, though? Why would it? How could it be beneficial? No, because you want. You wouldn't. Your brain wouldn't cope. The picture would be too. It would be too wide angle. There'd be no focal point. Is that the answer? Yeah, there's no need to. If your eyes. If you could do it, then before you even finished, you'd. You'd not have a focal point. Everything would just be a weird blur. It wouldn't matter. Why can't you do it? I'll put it. I'll put it on the board. Be careful. Be careful. Don't be. You don't go walking around the park trying to do it, Billy, you'll get arrested. Might I? Take care. 1252 is the time we need some answers. I think. Mat check is in Warsaw. Mat check. Question or answer? Answer, James. Well, there is no designated survivor at all, but there is a line of succession. Yes. And the next in line would be Archie. Good Lord. Yes. And since he is only. What is he for? I think he turned four. Meghan probably would be the mother regent who would spend in for her son until he was of age. Good, so that makes even more sense. Talk about putting a cat among the pigeons, eh? I mean, I think you're probably right in terms of the line of succession. I tell you, if someone had pointed this out on Friday, it would have been front page of the Daily Mail on Saturday morning, I think alongside all of the pictures. I know. And you know what, James? What is funny? That I'm calling from Warsaw to answer this question. Nobody from Britain knows this answer. I did sort of suggest that that would be the case, but we weren't certain of it, probably. I mean, what are your qualifications? Well, I'm a journalist, polish journalist who's reporting on british current affairs and obviously recently coronation. And so probably you were here, were you? You came here for it. No, you just did it from Poland. That was from Warsaw. I wish I was there. You don't need to be there, do you? I mean, it's one of the great myths of media. Know why you could do it all at home watching telly. You did? No, I did. I wasn't watching telly, but I was on the telly. It's king. Have you seen the film King Ralph? No, I haven't. Starring John Goodman when there's a terrible accident while the entire royal family are having their photograph taken and they searched the world for someone in the royal line of succession and, and they find some bloke in America working as a lounge singer played by John Goodman out of Roseanne. It's a really good film. And he comes back and then you've got the usual kind of shenanigans and people trying to topple him. But it is. You would, you're right, the line of succession would kick in and wherever it ended, you'd find your next monarch. Which, given that Prince Harry was at the ceremony, would involve Meghan taking some sort of regency role, wouldn't it? That would be funny. It would be extremely funny. It would be funny. And I believe in line of succession currently it's about 5000 people, including all the royal families in Europe and maybe around the world. Well, when we brought the Hanovers over, was it the Hanovers that came? I mean, they had absolutely no claim whatsoever on the throne except that, you know, the establishment wanted to keep a monarchy and they cast around Europe and obviously no one who's already got a big throne would have fancied it up. Finding a third cousin once removed could have gone anywhere. It's such a lottery. But anyway, that qualifies you for a round of applause. Maciek. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Fantastic. Melvin's in Southampton. Melvin, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Melvin. Right. Pipe and snare drums. Yes. So in the latter half of the 20th century, it became a trend for the pipers to tune the chanter or the back pipe to a higher and higher pitch. And in order to complement that, the drummers would crank their drums down even tighter, as you said. But it became so. It came to a point when the drums could no longer cope with that tension. So late seventies and 1980s, they started to use drum heads that were made of kevlar. And in order for the drum to take that stress, they started out different design drums, where there's extra bolts, if you like. Okay. And they could take the pressure and the stress. So the pipe band snare drum is usually tuned to a much tighter pitch and the drum is designed to take that high attention and it also enables the drummer to get more clarity out of the drum and play far more intricate, what we call drum scores. So what's the english scottish distinction then? Is that the scots regiments have the pipes? Yeah. Generally in the british. Well, in the military, yeah. It's a tradition that obviously the scottish regiments would all have their own pipe bands and the english regiments are more likely to be, what, brass or something like that. So the scottish drums are tighter? They are tighter and they are different now. Is different from a traditional answer. What are your qualifications? I am a pipe band snare drummer and I also played military snare drumming ever since I was a young kid in marching bands and played in a Royal Navy volunteer marching band. Fantastic. So I do that and I do pipe band drumming now. It's a massive round of applause from Melvin. You're welcome. No, thank you. That's incredible. Tight. I would have thought it. Scottish jobs at tight. It doesn't matter whether Melvin got it or not, you know, it's a mild. Is it? Racist joke, that racial stereotype, isn't it? You don't get many of them on this show. Chris is in Middlesbrough. Probably the last one. Question or answer? It better be an answer. It is an answer, James, carry on. It's to the I one. So I literally heard it over the phone while I was studying boots. So I just asked the optician. It's the best qualification ever. Go on. Yeah, genuinely. But yes. So we don't have the muscles in our eyes to do it. Some people do that can, like, move one eye to the left, but we can keep them straight. Okay. As well. There's no real evolutionary need for us to, because we have a pretty decent peripheral vision. So it's just not immediate. There it is. The muscles aren't there. Unless you're a bit freakish. Bit like being double jointed. A bit like being double jointed or something like that. There's no purpose to it, but you can focus on the end of your nose because there's a point, folks, to pull your eyes to. Yeah, that's right. And that's. I mean, qualifications. I just asked the optician. That's one of my all time favourites. Have a great round of applause for Chris. And that doesn't count as looking stuff up. I don't know who to choose. Is the favorite. Have you got a favorite? I really like Melvin, actually just came in at the end there with his. Because he was. Do you know why I like Melvin? Because he was so enthusiastic about it. And what I love about mystery, Harry, is you could listen to it for ten years and only once in the ten years would there be a question that makes you go, I don't actually believe it. That's totally my field. I can't believe someone's. We had one a couple of weeks ago and a fellow was like, I can't believe it's finally come up. I've been waiting. So the tightness of drums. Melvin's answer. Yeah. Melvin gets the mystery. Our ball game this week. Well played. And I promise no more casual scottish racism on tomorrow's program. That's my pledge to you. And that's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. You can download the whole show. Podcast, of course, featuring speak to Siddiq and you can rewind. And there's loads of other podcasts as well as well as the best video clips from LBC and other global stations. It's all available at global player from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Sawbrick with you at four. Sheila Fogarty with you. Now I can cross one eye. Go on. She's great radio. This is fantastic. How about that? That's my only trick. When did you disc. How old were you when you discovered that? About eight. I know lots of older brothers and sisters. Probably about three. Yeah. That's incredible. The guy that's unnerved me slightly still. Well, that's good to know. That's a good trick. Thanks very much indeed, James.