Mystery Hour - 12 May 16

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Three minutes after twelve is the time and your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial is now upon us. If you're new to this, then let me briefly explain how it works. You ring me with a question to which you suspect there must be an answer, but you have thus far been unable to find that answer. Someone else hears you ask the question and they ring in with the answer. There are only really two rules for mystery. The first is don't be dull. Seriously, never be boring. It is obviously in the eye of the beholder. We've got a fluid production team at the moment, so we will be working on the on the hoof, turning on a sixpence. But Chris's decision is final. If he thinks the question is boring, the question is boring. Please move along without a fight and come back next week with a better question. Things get a little trickier when it comes to repetition because of the fluidity of said production team. I think this is Chris's third ever mystery hour, so he's highly unlikely to have an encyclopedic knowledge of all the questions that we've dealt with over the course of the last near decade. And my short term memory is shot to pieces. So don't expect any help from me. We will endeavour. Mark, how many. How many have you done now? About a dozen. Yeah. So you have done more mystery hours than anybody else except me. You there, listening. So you'll be the one who possibly points out, but don't point it out all the time and try not to ring in with the qualification for your answer being that you've heard it before. I'm not selling it well this week, am I? Shall we start again? If you have a who, a why, a where, a when, a whither or even a wherefore, and you need an answer to that inquiry, this is the place to come. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If we do veer into the realms of repetition a little bit unnecessarily, why don't we chalk it up as the greatest hits? It's five minutes after twelve. This is mystery hour on LBC and I have to say you don't like the boom. If you're just tuning in for reasons that I haven't got the energy to explain. We were thinking of substituting the traditional mistry hour round of applause with a boom, but now we're not going to because the majority of votes have been cast the other way. I might let you. If you answer a question correctly, I might let you choose your mode of reward. It's a democratic way of doing it. David Dineling. David, what's your question? Good afternoon, James. It's to do with the military services. Oh, go on. You've got the Royal Navy. Yes, you have. You've got a royal air force. Yes, you have. Why isn't it called the Royal army? Why is it just called the army? Yeah. It's because of regiments, isn't it? I don't know. No, it is, I'm telling you. So you got the kings, you got. You do. The regiments have royal patronage? Each individual regiment has royal patronage. So the Royal Navy or air force. They don't have regiments. You have got the Royal Air Force Regiment. What do you mean? Well, there is. It's called the regiment. The Royal Air Force Regiment. They actually guard all the military bases if the. Yeah, but. So the regiment doesn't have. The regiment doesn't have royal patronage of its own. So the army is a collection of armies. Each little army called a regiment. Each regiment has royal patronage. So you don't need royal patronage for the collective noun for regiments, which is army. Each regiment is royal. They're all looking at me as if I've got this wrong and you are somehow expressing your skepticism through the power of silence. David. Well, this is my first time calls. I'm a little bit nervous. Well, don't be nervous. Have a boom just to put you at your ease. Boom. There you go. How's that feeling? Better now, the answer that you've come up with is correct? Well, I think it is. Well, I'm not going to. I can't force it through. So why is the army not royal? That's your question? Yeah. Yeah. All right, you're on. I mean, let's hope somebody out there comes up with a. Well, someone just did. You just didn't want it. No, I said someone out there. Well, where do you think I am now? You're in the studio. I'm talking about the public. Who am I? I think, as a collective, I think they might be a little bit more knowledgeable than you. First and last call to mystery marks. Clearly never listened to mystery out before. Mark Simworth's, though. Question or answer? Mark? A question. James. Yes. Hi, gorgeous. I bet you've been wolf whistled at many a time. You're not wrong there, my friend. Go on. Well, can you whistle sarcastically? I've never been entirely sure this wolf whistlings like. Wolves don't whistle, do they? But where's the origins of this thing? Is it a british thing or. So it's called a wolf whistle because it sounds like a wolf's howl. Does it really? Yeah, well, I mean that. Yes, I kind of more like. More. It sounds more like a wolf house than any other form of whistling. So why should they like that? You see? Why should they make a wolf whistle? To show your. Your compliments. The young ladies, then. Oh, yeah, I like that. So why did the wolf whistle become an expression of appreciation? Correct. I like it. Why do you want to know? Because I can't wolf whistle. I learned. Learn another technique. Right, we'll leave it right there. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. Why is the army not royal when the navy and the air force are. And how did the wolf whistle become a mode of expressing appreciation? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Ron Zimwormly in Hertfordshire Ron, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Yes, it's a weird one. But why do the dicky birds come down in my garden and drink the dog's wee? Oh, mate. People having a lunch. Well, I'm sorry about that, but I'm having something as well. But I'm watching a sparrow right this minute. He's come down where my dog has weed on the patio and he's drinking it. Now, why do they do that? You're watching it right this minute. I am doing that. Honestly, when the pigeons come down and do the same. Just your dog or all dogs, what do you feed it? What do you feed the dog? I give it dog food. Just normal dog food, you know. You're not feeding it some special substance that is not like that at all. And I wondered if they do the same with human. We know. Stop it now, Ron. It's a bit tongue in cheek, my expression of distaste, but only partly, mostly sincere. It's fascinating. Is it? Oh, yeah. I don't know. If you didn't have the radio on, how fascinating do you think it would be? Oh, much better, really. I see, I see what I can do. I presume it's just like water for them, isn't it? They're just thirsty. Yeah, but normally they go into the bird bath and drink ordinary water. Is the bird bath full at the moment? It is that. Are you sure? A positive. Yeah. And now there's another one. Just come down and gone to the dog's weed, right this second. Spring watch. It's like spring watch, mate. You're Kate humble, I'm Bill Oddie. Yeah. Hello, Bill. All right, Kate? How you doing? I don't like your hairstyle. Stop it. I'm going to stop. I'm just going to be Chris Packham and start inventing song titles. I'm very tempted to keep you on the line until another one comes down, but how do I know you're not faking it? I promise you. I promise you. And don't do that boom thing. Just give us a clap. All right, I will. I'm not giving you anything, mate. All you've done is ask a silly, slightly rude question, waiting years to get a bloody answer. Now you're swearing. There's no need for any of this. Ron, get back. Get back. Get back to you. Get back to your wildlife watch. I am sitting here now, coffee in hand. Good matching. It's a lovely image. You think it's ok? That's lovely. That old Ron, they're watching the birds, drinking his dogs. Okay, does anyone know why does anyone care? Tony's in Enfield? Tony, question or answer, please, James, carry on. Tony. Why is british army not royal? Yes, I believe that the british army is not royal because it couldn't have been. We didn't have a standing army until Cromwell raised one. And he wasn't exactly going to make it royal, was he? He was too busy cutting the royals heads off. Up until that point, it was individual regiments that had fealty. Local regiments? Yeah, local regiments. Who did they answer to? Earls and dukes and things. Landowners who were tasked with raising armies as and when necessary by the king, which is why Warwick became the king's maker. When the Earl of Warwick decided to put his army on one side instead of the other, the whole nature of the conflict changed. Exactly. Now, we had a Royal Navy raised by, well, Henry the 8th, Henry VIII and Queen Elizabeth I was the famous, famous queen. Very famous queen there for you. Yep. There we go. So famous they named her twice. And by the time the navy and the air force came about, they were national bodies. Ergo under the authority of the crown. Ergo royal. But individual regiments, although many of them enjoy royal patronage, they did not actually come into existence until after the civil war. Exactly. I think that's a brilliant answer. I nearly cut you off when you said I believe because I thought you were about to start theorizing and speculating. I know. I believe based on 14 years of military service and an interest in the subject. Well, there you go. Now, would you like a round of applause or a sonic boom? Oh, a round of applause, please, James. I like. Yeah. Purist. There, you see, tiny's a purist. A mystery, our purist. He's not messing about with any of these newfollutin excitement. Simon's in Newbury. Simon, question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on, mate. It's a simple one for you. Why do we cry? Why do we actually produce tears? It's just about the most simple physical projection of our emotions yet I've never actually understood why we do it. Do you mean the evolutionary explanation, if you like. Well, because, I mean, there's a variety of whys here, isn't there? I mean, the biological explanation. What happens physically that gets prompted? Or why do we cry? In the sense of what purpose does it serve to us? Which will be an evolutionary answer or a combination of both of the above? Well, I suppose it's probably a combination with a leaning towards the biological, because I have to understand, what is it that goes on in your brain when emotion can turn into something so physical? Hmm. Are you a big crier? Not really. Are you not to be. Oh, I am. I'm awful. Seriously, I'm a rock. I mean, it's not a sign of particular strength. Crying a lot or weakness. Hitler apparently used to burst into tears all the time, and I have to be careful now, I don't want to fall into any Ken Livingston sized holes, but Hitler was not a very nice person and he cried a lot. So crying doesn't denote sensitivity? No, no, I appreciate that. It's just. I like it. When's the last time you cried? Actually, don't answer that. Who do I think I am? Honestly? So impertinent. It's 12 15, 19 minutes after twelve. Funnily enough, Tom Sawbrook expressed surprise there in the trail for our weekend schedule that last Sunday, this extremism issue for the Conservatives was still alive. After Michael Fallon's intervention, Theo ushered back with yet another breaking development, largely, as I've said a couple of times in response to the story that you at one point were the only person on Fleet street pursuing. Yes, James, I told you about the prime minister's apology. He has now corrected the record in parliament. He was asked a question by Mister Keith Simpson, the Tory MP for Broadland, to ask him whether he would clarify his remarks concerning Suleiman Ghani. Mister Cameron replies in a written answer laid on Hansard, the official record of parliament. I was referring to reports that Mister Ghani supports an islamic state. I am clear that this does not mean Mister Garni supports the organisation. Dash. And I apologise to him for any misunderstanding. James, what this means is that if you or one media reports what David Cameron said at PMQs on April 20, plays the clip again. It is a libel even. It is defamatory to do so because he has now corrected the record. So that piece of audio, that clip, that transcript becomes defamatory to mister. So the parliamentary privilege has been removed from that. Thank you very much indeed. It's an indication of how seriously I think this story should. Should be treated that we've interrupted mystery hour to bring you the latest development. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Back to that mystery hour. Nick's in Sidcup. Nick, question or answer? Yes, Finne, question. Go on then. Right. When you walk up to an escalator that is not moving or working, whether it's metal or wooden, whether you're going up or down, you stumble onto it. When it's moving, you sort of like you do. No, I know you do. And also you look behind, you think, no one see me. But why is that? It's ridiculous. It's because of your brain. No, it's not my brain. It is your brain, mate. Your brain thinks it's still moving. Somehow your brain and your body are in conflict with each other. Your senses are in conflict with each other because your brain is saying, oh, I'm on one of those things that moves. And then suddenly you're not. And you stumble. No. Oh, come on, that's good. Yes, sort of. What else is. What else is it going to be? Well, I've given you the best available answer. This is Occam's razor, mate. I'm giving you Occam's razor live on the radio. This is the answer. Your brain is somehow adjusting to the fact that this thing that normally moves isn't moving. No, it's not. I'm walking along. I've got my bags of shopping with me. I walk up to the escalator. My brain says to me, Nick, the escalator is not moving. So I'm now going to have to move. What happens is I go along and straight away I stumble. And then you have a sense memory of a moving escalator which also impacts upon your brain, which goes, oh, this is one of those things that moves. Oh, no, it isn't. And that's when you stumble. Just at that precise moment there going on. You've just told me that it's not moving, but this is one of those things that moves. Oh, stumble. You're not the public understanding of LBC. I think you need a little bit more. You know what? I'm going right off. Some of you lot. That is. Right, okay? So stay there. When you just referred to me not being the professor of the public understanding of LBC who are you actually implicitly referring to? The man at Brighton. The man in Brighton? Do you mean Professor House or Zabowski? The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton? Yes. All right. Let's see who's on line two. Hello? Line two. Hello, James. Hello, Professor Hal. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Bryan. Stick. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. Nico, stick that in your pipe and smoke it. Hal, what have we got? We've got a delightful theory called operant conditioning. Yes, of course. Which was suggested by Pavlov who did some rather unkind experiments on dogs. We associate escalators with moving and we're conditioned to step onto them in a certain way. And because they're moving most of the time we associate them with moving in the same way that the dogs that Pavlov used would associate being fed with ringing of a bell. And even when he rang the bell and then didn't feed the dogs they would still salivate and produce gastric fluid. Another good example is schoolchildren. When the school bell goes off, they'll all jump up. And my mister used to say to me, no, you're Pavlov's dogs. You've been conditioned. Nice bit of biographical detail thrown in there by Professor Halcy. There's a picture of Professor Hall. I am humbled. I am humbled. I've had the gentleman ring up and give you my answer. But hang on, hang on, Nick. I'd already given you the right answer, sort of. No, no sort of about it. I just didn't know the fancy name. I love you. I get it. You know what's gonna happen? I'm gonna ask you, do you want the boon? Or do you want the round of applause? Take a wild guess. Boom. Professor Hal, you can have a round of applause. No, that's about your millionth. Anyway, Nick, nice work. And obviously I appreciate that. For people who are not familiar with mystery how on a regular basis, some of that may have been a little in, but that's your fault because soon you will be familiar with it on a regular basis and then you'll enjoy all the in bits just as much as people like Nick and Professor Howe and I do. Nicola. Now in Rayleigh. Question or answer, Nicola? Question, please. Yours. Why is the hard shoulder called a hard shoulder? Because it's hard. Yeah, but why shoulder? Because it's on the edge of the road so it used to be the soft. The hard shoulder is because it's covered in tarmac if it's not covered in tarmac it's not the hard shoulder it's just sort of soft ground on the edge of the road really? Yeah. Where's your shoulder? Is it, is it in the middle of your body or right to the side? Yeah, but the road's not called your neck, is it? What? The road's not called the neck there's no. Stop splitting hairs, Nicola, will you. It's called the hard shoulder because it's the shoulder of the road that is on the left and right extremities you've got two shoulders and it's hard because it's tarmacked okay, round of applause this time, please. No round of applause this time, no more booms. Thank you very much Nicola. If I'm wrong about that I shall probably not put. You are now to tell me it's coming up to 1226 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions that still need answers. I'll put the hard shoulder in brackets I'm fairly confident about that what was the name of the gentleman who was staring out of his patio doors? I've only got him in my head as Kate humble who was my Kate what was his name? Anyway? There are birds that are flying down onto his patio as we speak to drink his dog's urine and he wants to know why because the birdbath is full which is probably quite a good question it was Ron, wasn't it? Of course it was when did a wolf whistle become a sign of appreciation? Origins of the wolf whistle is an expression of appreciation and my favorite question potentially Chris, who's producing today, has a little habit of he only produces the show occasionally every time he does he says oh, I've written an article about this for the Independent and believe it or not he has written an article about this for the Independent but quite why or what it contains I'll leave you to find out for yourself why do we cry? What is the evolutionary explanation or the biological explanation of tears? 26 after twelve is the time Darren is in Wellingarden City Darren, question or answer? Question, James. Go on then my mum asked me a couple of weeks back I've been trying to get on for that since then. About. She was driving to work in the morning and she saw a pigeon on the top of a multi story car park looking down and her question to me was, could the pigeon commit suicide if it wanted to or would it. Would it, would it instantly start flapping and fly before it hit the floor? So is it. I mean, is it a question about the. I mean, you'd have to be able to read a pigeon's mind to answer that question. Hey, my mom asked me so I thought I'd ask you. Well, there are, there are evolutionary behaviors and I think it may have subsequently turned out to be a bit apocryphal, the thing about lemmings, but they. Population control among some mammals does involve the older people jumping off the. Older members of the herd jumping off a cliff. But I don't think. So you. I don't think you're going to get an answer. I don't want to let your mum down, Darren. I couldn't. I didn't know what to say to her. I mean, I thought I was meant to be the one asking stupid questions and it was a serious. Did she ring you up or were you face to face at the time she actually rang you up? She came in and she, she, she came in that evening and she was deadly serious. Sit down, son. I need to ask you a question. Can a pigeon jump off the multi story car park and commit suicide or will it just react and fly up and then it's unable to commit suicide? It's not often I'm lost for words, actually, but on this one, because I tell you, I'm uncomfortable as well because. And I'm not having to pop at you in any way because I can see the funny side. But there's nothing funny about suicide normally. No, no, there's nothing. No, no, no. But when you bring a pigeon into it, I'm not going to lie to you, it assumes a previously absent comic dimension, doesn't it? All right for Darren's mum. Let's do it for Darren's mum. Cheers, James. All right, mate. 1228 is the time. It's not just pigeons, is it? But I suppose. Can a pigeon seek to. Can a pigeon deliberately end its own life? Why do we cry? Why do birds drink dog urine? And what is the origin of the wolf whistle? As a sign of human appreciation. If you know the answer to any of those. Zero. 345-606-0973 we need to get a few answers up, actually, so we might have to drop a couple of the questions that are waiting to free up the phone lines we need for answers. So just for the time being. It never works when I do this, but I press on anyway. Don't ring in with any more questions just for the time being, because we need to get some answers to these ones. There's the wolf wishl question, the dog wee question, the tears question and the pigeon question. There's a sort of natural history element emerging to this week's mystery. I blame Ron stroke, Kate Humble, whose dog it is that did the thing that the birds are doing now on his patio. All right, maybe you had to be there. The number you need to provide the answers to those questions is zero. 345-606-0973 you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Should we squeeze in, Tony? But no, we won't. We'll go towards the news headlines, Tony, and then we'll come to you first after those. It is now approaching 12:30 and here with the very latest news headlines is Rosanna. The new mayor of London has confirmed 400 extra armed 33 minutes after twelve. I've been meaning to remind you, actually, that there's, there's a lot going on on Twitter these days. On the show, we're putting out little clips while the program's still box fresh before we've actually come off air, clips from the sort of highlights from the last hour or two. And of course, I retweet stuff that you send me that's really interesting. So make sure you're following station overview, as it were. But if you want to get involved in this program's, if you like extracurricular activities, there's an awful lot happening off air and you can meet some of the famous characters from the program as well, like Professor Hal by following me at Mister Jamesob on Twitter. Back to the questions that currently need answers. Wolf whistles. Birds drinking, dogwee tears. Biological or evolutionary explanation? Why do we cry? Why do we cry? What is gained by crying? And is it, do pigeons ever have suicidal thoughts? Tim's in Croydon. Tim, question or answer? Answer, James. Good afternoon. Hi. Right. Swear to God, I saw a pigeon commit suicide once walking down a street in Borlane in Leeds. And the pigeon. Broken wing. Injured, something like that. I don't know. It's on the pavement. It edges to the pavement. There's traffic coming to a halt. A red light double decker bus. Okay. It edges, edges, edges, drops off the curb, goes under the wheel to the bus or goes by the side of the wheel to the bus. Waits, lights change, traffic starts to move, wheels turn slowly, dead pigeon, you know, 5 seconds later it could have gone anywhere, that pigeon. It went off the curb because it was injured and it died. What do you reckon? It's a strong playful testimony, isn't it? That is a strong play. It's got, it's got the lot there, it's got poignancy, it's got eye wound witness account. It's got plausibility, Tim. It's got plausibility. I'm not going to lie to you, I can't lie. You give the extra detail. I like it with the sort of lead street names, that kind of thing. Just sort of roots it with a bit of biographical detail. It's not what Darren's mum was looking for, that's my only problem. Darren's mum was wondering specifically about the, you know, the decision not to fly. Well, I thought the question was about suicidal ideation. It was. I'm with you, but I just. I just feel bad for Darren's mum because I think she specifically was wondering, is it possible for a pigeon to jump off a multi story car park and not flap its wings? But that is not. You're right. That way, Darren. So Darren's mum take up with Darren, not with Tim or I. Tim or me. Yeah, because it's the way he framed the question that is responsible for the fact that Tim has now gone definitive in his answer. I think you have, because the pigeon put itself out of its misery, effectively. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, it did, it could have gone anywhere. It was injured. Why do you never see, rarely see dead birds? It's because they die under hedges mostly. That's where they go, they hide there. Yeah. And then they wait for death. But this one, you know, took a quicker route. Yeah. A round of applause for Tim. Oh, yeah, all right, that one for Fred and Dan. Cheers, man. Peter's in Putney. Question or answer? Peter, I've got an answer for you on the wolf whistle. Oh, yes. Well, my uncle is a chief petty officer in the Navy. It's the sound they use on a boatswain's call to get people's attention before they actually pipe anything. It's the first one and it's derived down. It's a similar sound to the wolf whistle and that's what you always told me. It's a specific whistle to say. Right, pay attention, everybody, because it's all you have to have. Something that everyone's kind of agreed on. Yeah. Even implicitly. And how does that transmute into a mark of appreciation. Well, it's just getting people to. You get the attention of someone. If you wolf whistle to a woman, you were trying to get her attention. No, you don't know because, you know you don't. Because I've got different whistles for my children. You see, if I lose them in a shop and I won't reveal what they are, because that is, you know, obviously very biographical detail. But the one you do to get attention, is that not the. Yeah, well, that's what I was always told. Well, don't be like that, mate. Don't get all Mahdi with me. I've not so many. So many answers to get to that. I know and I'm grateful, but it's. I mean, it's just not true. Because the one you do to get people's attention is demonstrably different from the one that you do to express appreciation of a female or male form. Well, that was the naval call. Anyway. I feel bad now. Yep. I can't do it though, Pete. Sorry, mate. God rest my uncle. Yeah, well, no, you're not playing that card now, are you? Oh, man, I'm going to be strong. I can't. I'm not going to be way late. Kevin's in Stamford Hill. Question or answer, Kevin. It's a question, James. Yes. I'd like to know what qualifications do you need to be a slaughterman in an abattoir? It's an interesting place to come with that question, Kev. What explains your interest? You looking for a career change? Yeah, I'd quite like to do that job. What do you think would equip you for it? What makes you think that a life in a slaughterhouse would suit you? Well, I did work in a poultry slaughterhouse one time. Yeah, well, quite like to work somewhere, I don't know where they killed sheep or pigs. Um, I quite like joint thing, you know, joy killing things. So I think that give me a lot of pleasure doing that job. Okay. I don't know that you'd need any. I mean, you'd presumably you do all your training on the job, wouldn't you? Well, I don't know. Would you need some sort of MVQ? You wouldn't need a certificate in butchery just to do the killing? Is it just the killing that appeals to you or do you like the idea of the butchering as well? Both. But really. Well, you definitely need some qualifications to be a butcher. Yeah, yeah, but like to be, you know, to be actual slaughter, meant to actually kill the animal. So what qualifications do you need? To be a slaughter man? Yeah, okay. No, thank you, Kevin, just for the record, you can come on this trail whenever you want, mate, and ask any question you please. If you know the answer to that, call me now. Seriously. No, seriously. Samuel, question or answer? Hello. Hey. I have been asking yes for the sort of. Basically it would depend on where the meat's being exported to. So for instance, silver fern farms or something, New Zealand, you would have to be of muslim faith and the sheep would be slaughtered in accordance with halal. So basically, depending on you, could, anyone could be a slaughterman, but it would depend on their faith. So you don't need any qualifications whatsoever to work in an abattoir? No, it is all experience. And as you work your way around the room from, I don't know, chopping shoulders, boning out legs on the bandsaw, eventually you get to a percentage. So you'd call it, say 100%. And once you're 100%, you could become a slaughterman or a bandsawman, so to speak. Your qualifications? I worked in one, silver fern Farms, New Zealand. Would you recommend it as a career move to Kevin? Bearing in mind Kevin really likes. Kevin really likes killing things. He seemed like a sick man. Maybe Kevin, that was Samuel that said that you were a sick man. That was not. That was not me, mate. That was Samuel. I think he's bang out of line. How dare you come on here and say that. Kevin, who likes killing things sounded a bit sick. Sorry, Kev, it's too late now. Samuel. What's that? He's online too. He wants Samuel's home number. All right, pass it over. Anything for Kevin. Anything for super Kev. Round of applause for Samuel. Barrett's in Harrow. Barrett, question or answer? Answer to a question on the dog wee. It's just one of those weeks. Okay, so why are the birds on Ron's patio drinking the wee that his dog just did? It's their meat for the salt from the wee that brings them there. The clear water is there. They won't touch that because the salt water is there in the wee. All animals, dogs, horses, the cows are given salt lakes on farm so they can get this sold from there. But birds flying around can't get that often from the meals they have. Yes. And where the final we that go for it? Yeah. Qualifications? Barrett trying to sell this as a business a while ago, the salt lakes, to farm other businesses, so I know about it. Well, that's true. I mean, I recognize what you describe about mammals, but I don't know that birds have the same metabolism. I'm sure you're right in the context of minerals or something like that, but I'm not sure it would necessarily be salt. I think all creatures need salt. Well, I mean, is it not nitrogen? So the dog. The dog is excreted nitrogen in diluted urea, and the birds convert the nitrogen into uric acid. Well, I think. Well, between the two of us, we've nailed it, haven't we? Because if you'd said minerals instead of specifically sodium chloride, I think you'd have been over the line. Yes. They get something out of the way that they need that is simply not present in water. What is it? Nitrogen, minerals? Salt? One or all of the above. Round of applause for Barrett. What sort of business did you have selling salt licks? No, just the distribution business to find out which farms and which. What type of leeks are ordered. I mean, you'd be surprised as to the variety of licks available. I would be very surprised. What's the most expensive lick? It's all from the himalayan mountains, which has been left there for hundreds of millions of years, and it's so pure that it's amazing. And they give that to cows. Cows, or. I mean, even humans have that in the. I know humans have it. I've seen it for sale. It's pink sometimes, isn't it? That's the one. That's the one, yeah. I wouldn't waste it on a cow. Do you waste on a cow? Some herds, you know, you never know who like the face to like money. Yeah, you're right. I mean, look what they do to the wagyu beef in Japan. They sort of give them massages and feed them beer all day. Sounds like heaven, doesn't it? Have I given him. You've had your round of applause, Barrett. Great work. So it's one of those days. I don't know where the time has gone today. 1245, as near as. Damn it. Joe will be up first after the travel news. After Joe. It could, of course, be you. Number you need for it to be you is zero. 345-606-0973 we've done that. The wolf whistle. I bet Peter and Putney was right, and he. He cited the memory of his late uncle as well. And I still sent him away empty handed. I hope I don't regret that. Ultimately, the only way you can perhaps rescue me is by giving me a better explanation of why the wolf whistle has become an expression of appreciation. Why do we cry? I thought that would have been shot down pretty early, but it hasn't been. I think they're the only two that we're still waiting for, so we probably have time to squeeze in a couple more. Let's squeeze in Joe's just before the travel news. Joe, what's your question? It's all about buttons on sleeves. Go on. Then on the end of our sleeve, men's jackets mostly, you'll find three little buttons. I've got no idea what they're for. It's so you can roll your sleeve up. Get off. Of course it is. It's cuff. It's called a surgeon's cuff. So, back in the day, when surgeons observed sartorial standards that are higher even than they are now, they would roll up their jacket sleeves to do surgery. Ago, it became known as a surgeon's cuff. It's now called a working cuff because on your jackets, the sleeves, the buttons don't work, do they? No, of course not. How do I know that? I don't know, kid. I'll tell you after this. From the LVT travel center. Good afternoon, I'm Jay Louise Knight and problems with animals on the road on the Surrey stretch of the M 1249. And, as promised, the continuation of that answer to the question about cuffs. And you've accused me of some quite rude things here, jazz in particular. How do you know his buttons don't work? Because he sounds like he only buys cheap suits, obviously, you massive hashtag, snobbery. Kind of. That's not the reason. The reason I knew that his. What was his name, the fellow just before the travel there, asking about why the. Why are there buttons on sleeves? It was a joke, wasn't it? The reason I know that his buttons didn't work on his sleeve was because he mentioned the number of buttons there were, and that number was three, which Jez. Yes. Is indicative. Unless you're wearing a designer garment from continental Europe, that is indicative of a cheaper garment than a four button, or even, believe it or not, a five button sleeve. If you're having a suit made to measure, if it's genuinely bespoke, you can have as many buttons as you want. And back when every suit was made to measure, before the existence of off the peg suit ink, you would have a working cuff on your jacket, because surgeons, as I said, would roll it up. Now, just for style and tradition, the buttons have stayed, but the cuff doesn't work unless you're wearing a really posh suit. The only suits I've ever owned on which the cuff works are the best suits I've ever owned. And they all had either four or five buttons. So when he said he only had three buttons, I knew he didn't have a working cuff. I also knew he didn't have a working cuff because he was asking the question about why he had buttons on his sleeve and if the cuff worked, he'd know. Well, it's so you can roll your sleeve up. There you go. I'm pretty sure about surgeon's cuff, but in full definitiveness, I'm just going to stick with working cuff. And that sent me a round of applause. Mark's in Romford. Mark, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. And you can answer this, because I'll take your answer based on how much time we've got left. When I was bathing my daughter the other day, she put a ship in the bath and the bath level, the water level rose. Does that mean every time a ship is launched into the ocean, the sea level rises slightly negligibly? Yeah. You've just answered it. Well, a tiny, tiny, tiny amount. Qualifications. I think we did this a few years ago on mister. It's a tiny, tiny, tiny amount. But. But, yes. I mean, it's Archimedes, isn't it? It's Eureka. It must do great stuff. Oh, that's nice. That was easily, easily done. Thank you very much. 1252, Ted is in Sunbury. Ted, question or answer? Question, please. Yeah. If all the stars and planets that we can see, or not all but the majority of them, and some of them are millions of light years away. And how do we know they're still there? Because if they could have blown up half a million years ago, we could still see them, because it takes that long for the light to travel back to Earth. We don't know that they're still there. No, no, we just don't. There's no other way of proving that they aren't there. Visiting, just visiting would be the only way you could do. It would take quite a long time. I wouldn't. Yeah, no kidding. But there's no. Because, I mean, a lot of the stars we can see died. Died millennia ago. Yeah. It's just taking so long for the light to reach us. It looks like they're still there. Does that make your. Does that. Does that freak you out a bit? Yeah. Because the universe could be empty, really. And we think it's full up with, you know that saying of more grains of SAP, more stars than there are grains of sand on the earth, which I can never get my head around it. Half of them might not be there. You know, might only be a bucket full of sand out there. What do you think? Are you. Are you. Are you a poet, by any chance? You're sounding quite poetic today. I'm not a retired fireman. That doesn't preclude you from being a poet. Do you know what I think everyone should do? I wish I had the use of words that you do, which I don't. Oh, you're very kind. You're a lot more used to humanity as a fireman than I am as someone with a big vocabulary mate. But thank you. I appreciate the compliment. The answer is oddly not. Not one that's ever occurred to us before. But, yeah, it is, it is. It is just true. There is no way of knowing if the stars we can see are still there. Thanks very much. No, you're welcome. I'm just pouring in these rounds of applause. I'm a little embarrassed. So not 1254 Matthews incatur and Matthew. Question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Is it the tears question? Because that. It's only the tears we got left. Is it only the tears we got left? What was the other one? Oh, and the wolf whistle. Go on. So the tears and the wolf whistle. Why do we cry, Matthew? Okay, so it's to maintain the balance of serotonin in the brain. So when you're upset, you've got a lot of negative chemicals. The tears effectively flush it away, which is why you feel so much better after a good cry. Yes. And if you flip it to the other side when you're really happy and you cry with laughter, it's the same principle, except you've got too many happy chemicals, so you're flushing out the happy chemicals just to remain. Just to keep a nice balance, basically. And by happy and sad chemicals, we probably mean hormones, don't we? I think serotonin's the happy one. I couldn't. But, yes, you're probably correct there. What are your qualifications, Matthew? I heard it on a magnificent show called mystery hour. Oh, no, I'm going to go. I'm going to go up a level. You've got a round of applause, but Abbas in Leicester knows some fancy words. Take it away, Abbas. Hi. Firstly, James, lovely to speak to you. You're my favorite presenter on LBC. What about other radios? What about other radio stations? All radio stations, yeah. That's all right, then. Carry on. So, basically, within your brain, right in the middle of the brain, so if you were to draw a line, imaginary line, between your temples and from you, the center of your forehead, going backwards. Right in the process of that, you've got something called your limbic system, which is right there. Abbas, wait there. Wait there. Wait there, Abbas, wait. I'm coming back to you in a minute. Matthew. Matthew. Limbic system, mate. Stay there. Carry on, Abbas. So you've got your limbic system which processes your emotions and that feeds into a part of your brain called the hypothalamus. Stay there, Abbas. Stay there. Stay there, Abbas. Stay there, Matthew. Don't ask me to spell it. Hypothalamus, mate. Back to Abbas. And that releases certain types of hormones and one of the hormones that it causes is the release of is something called prolactin. Stay there, Abbas. Stay there, mate. Stay there. Matthew. Yes. Prolactin, pal. Back to Abbas. Which makes your tear ducts more heavier and causes you to cry. And that works with both happy emotions and sad emotions. Qualifications. So I'm a doctor, but a few years ago I did a thesis on the psychophysiology of crying. Matthew. Matthew, psychophysiology of crying. Right. Now, should I get Abbas to send you a copy? Round of applause all round, please, gentlemen. Thank you. Please. Thank you. Oh, I loved that. 1257 is the time. Jill is in Beckenham. What? Stewards in question or answer Jill Stewart's inquiry. How dare you? I'm sorry? The buttons on the sleeves. My husband is a freak about naval history and he said it comes from the Royal Navy, because the midshipmen were called snotties, because they always had snotty noses and they used to wipe their noses on their sleeves, so they put the buttons on the cuffs to stop them wiping their noses on their sleeves. I don't want to cause any marital discord, but there's no way that's true, is there? No chance. Surgeon's cough. It's. I mean, I. How many years did your husband spend in menswear? No, he didn't spend any time in menswear. It's a well known old wives. Oh, crikey, that was a bit rude. It's a well known apocryphal, anecdotal evidential contribution to the national conversation that it was to stop sailors wiping their snotty noses on their sleeves. But then you would have to explain to me why cuffs also worked. Why the surgeon's cuff is unbuttonable. Is rather. Yeah, you can unbutton it and roll up your sleeve. I give up. I. Only. He was listening as well. And he made you ring in, Jill? No, he's gone to get petrol in the car. So he I said to him, I'm going to ring in. He said, no, don't. But I did. Well, I. I'm glad you did, but you're still wrong. Okay, I'll tell him when he gets back. You do tell him. From me. Seriously, thank you very much. There might be something in that, but I promise you, it's called a surgeon's cuff. And it's because military surgeons in particular had to unbutton and roll up their sleeves when they were operating on the battlefield. Actually, you don't see it very often these days, although I've got a couple myself still. Thank you, Jill. That's it for me for another day. What an astonishing mystery. That call a natalie earlier, the one about why boys aren't going on to university and how it could possibly be linked to female teachers being the predominant gender in the classroom. I've put that on the website. So head over to LBC dot co dot UK or I'll retweet it from Mrjamesob. It was a really brilliant insight. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. I'm James O'Brien. Here is Sheila Fogarty. Thanks, James.