Why do flights fluctuate in price so much?

Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where, world events permitting, we will now indulge ourselves in our weekly release from the constraints of current affairs based conversation. We delve instead into the world of mystery, the world of unsolvable beg your pardon, the world of soluble problems, the questions which are buzzing away in the back of your brain and to which you know there must be an answer, but you have been thus far unable to find it. The number you need, as ever, is zero. 345-606-0973 the method is pretty straightforward. You ring in, you ask your question, Sam and Beth will decide whether or not it is worthy of inclusion. Although, judging by last week's performance by those two, you'd get any old rubbish on. And then we will hopefully find an answer to that question before 01:00 today, when Sheila Fogarty returns and takes us all back up market. It's like a sort of who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence, wherefore, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's that all about? You've seen something, you don't understand it. It's just nice. It's nice this hour. It's not a combative or confrontational exercise. It's very, very simply a sort of shared celebration of knowledge. And wherever you got your knowledge from, it doesn't matter. It's valid. So when I ask you for your qualifications, if you ring in to answer a question, you are perfectly entitled to say, I saw it on the telly, James, just as you might say, as our most frequent contributor does, I'm the professor of the public. Actually, no, he doesn't. He says, I'm very lucky to be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. For Professor Hal, it is he of whom I speak. Just a quick text, because I don't read out enough, probably. As an 80 year old James writes. Len in Stockport, he said, I've still got my barbels and I've still got instant recall and I was born in 1939. Brexit is crazy. I like that, Len, because there's this lazy characterization of various sides of this debate as being somehow generalisations that work. Of course they don't. But we digress. No more Brexit this hour, I promise. We'll be back on it, no doubt, tomorrow morning. And indeed, we'll bring you any updates on Julian Assange as well. But in the meantime, it is a weekly advice venture into the unknown. Hear the numbers now and we will do our level best to solve whatever mystery it is that you are currently wrestling with. Five minutes after twelve, Sharon's in Greenwich. Sharon, question or answer? Hi, it's a question. Hello, Sharon. Hi. When a child is overdue, so the mother's pregnant and the baby's due. Thanks for explaining. It's a chemical balance, chemical reaction, that causes the child to come. Is it the mother that initiates that chemical change or is it the baby? Are you sure it's a chemical thing? Well, it's hormonal, isn't it? Is it? I've no idea. I can't remember. The youngest is eleven in April. I can't remember all my neonatal Gubbins, but you tell me. We were told if we're bringing it late, we would sort of start jogging up and down the stairs or go for a curry. I don't know how that would change your hormones. Well, what do they do when they induce labor? They introduce a hormone into the mother's body. Do they then initiate childbirth? Do they inject them? I don't know if. It might not be a hormone. It might just be a muscle relaxant or something like that. I know nothing. I'm just trying to get the parameters of the question correct so that we can increase our chances of getting an answer. We always say the baby will come when it's ready. Exactly. So that made me wonder whether it was produced by the child. Yeah. No, I like it. What happens when a baby decides it's time? Yeah. Decides it's time to come out. And so the overdue thing doesn't really matter. Cause it's a very movable feast. A due date. If you were having a baby in France. If you got your due date in England and then hopped on the Eurostar to France to get a due date, the way that they calculated it is different. So you'd have two different due dates. It's why babies very rarely arrive. Bang on the money. But what is? Is it chemistry or biology or physics? Physics. It's gravity. James, what happens when it's time for a baby to pop out? I actually don't know. It might be chemical. So Sharon's question then would become, does the chemical come from the mother or the baby? Which I presume. I can answer that there's nothing in the baby that hasn't come from the mother. So ultimately it would be the mother. So what happens? I love that. What is the trigger? There you go. That's the word I was searching for, the trigger for childbirth. Zero. 345-606-0973 Emma is in Alfreton. Hi, Emma, how are you? Hi, James. Good, thank you. Question or answer a question, please. I just wondered if any. What the most valuable liquid was. We were having a conversation at work and I was speculating whether expensive wine was more expensive than melted gold or something. I was in Ryman's yesterday. I was in Ryman's yesterday. I reckon printer cartridges must be on the list, don't you? Printer? I recently bought some of that, yeah. So the most expensive liquid, would it be the most expensive wine or would it be. It wouldn't be that, would it? Would be. I mean, mercury medicine. Well, I thought some medicines must be expensive. I like it. Oh, good. I like it a lot. I like it, yeah. The most expensive liquid, and we mean something that is a liquid at room temperature. So you can't say, like melted platinum or something like that. Yeah. Well, even. Yeah, it has to be a liquid at temperature. Yeah, a liquid. What is the world's most expensive liquid at room? What a lovely question. What was your theory? Who's going to win the argument in the office? Well, my fear is medicine. But then the lads on top floor say, no, it's going to be wine. These fancy wines that people buy. Let's see if it's the lads on top floor or if it's you ever. Which. Or indeed none of the above. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. And a big shout to the lads on the top floor. All right, lads? Phillip's in Bristol. Philip. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Philip. Why is it that when you look in the mirror, the image is reversed? Left, right, but not top, bottom? It's not reversed first, left, right. But say you've got a wedding ring on your left finger, you look in the mirror? Yeah. It's on your right finger. Yeah, sort of. But it's still on your left finger. It hasn't. If you look down at your finger, that even though you're looking up and seeing it on what appears to be your right hand, then it's really simple. This, I think, is. Although whenever I say that on something that's a bit sciency, I often come across. But it's. Nothing's actually flipping. You hold your hand up in front of a mirror and. But there's some kind of trickery going on. There is. There's no trickery going on, Philip. This mirror, it's the devil's work. What? But is it. Is it an optics thing or is it is it a psychology thing? I mean, do we learn to do it, or is it part of the hard. You're massively overthinking it. It's simply the difference between a reflection and a non reflected image. So the reflection appears to have turned it around. But think about it. Stand in front of a mirror, lift up your right arm, and the reflection comes back at you. So it looks like it's your left arm, but it's still your right arm. So for it to make sense that you'd somehow be flipped upside down. There's no parallel here or comparison, because you're looking in the mirror and your head is exactly where it would be. It's exactly where it is. It's just that it's as if you're looking at yourself. Do you know the easiest way to understand it? You have a lovely voice. Have you ever done any actor? No, all at school. Yes. Well, do you remember what stage right and stage left meant? Oh, yes. Yes. Right. So stage right and stage left is what the actor is on the stage. But when you're looking at the actor on the stage, stage right is your left. Okay, but what about stage top and stage bottom? But it doesn't stop it with your tops and bottoms. There's no point at which you had ever. If you were watching a play, it would not make sense for all the actors to be upside down. Yeah. No, I'm reassured that by your sort of clarity and confidence. But there's still something that's puzzling me here. Yes. So I thank you. I've done my best, if anyone else can add. I'm not going to take a round of applause for that, because, as you've probably gathered as a listener to the program, I'm quite unbelievably modest. So I'm not going to take a round of applause today, but because I haven't quite explained it, except I have. So we'll leave it there. But trust me, there's no relationship between stage right and stage left. Or a reflected image being appearing to be subverted when it hasn't actually been and then being flipped upside down. But I haven't put it in the neat words because, you know, I'm an artist, not a scientist. Sam's in Madrid. Sam, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Right. My question was, why is it much rarer for people to get cancer of the heart flipping out? We've got enough. There's enough depressing stuff going on in this world. What a morbid question. One time I called up with this question, and they said they wouldn't let me on because it was too dark and they wanted something punchy. I agree with them, actually. I just can't get the staff anymore. But the punchy bit is that. Is there within that because it is so rare. Is there within that some kind of scope in terms of treatment and prevention for other types of cancer? No. How much is that investigated by. No, no, no. I'll ask the question about why heart cancer is so rare compared to cancer in other, more obvious organs, but there's no research element to it because it will be something to do with the composition of the heart. So you couldn't suddenly learn from the heart how to make lung cancer less prevalent because the lungs are made of lung and the heart is made of heart. God, I'm good. Hoping for an answer from. Hoping for more than that. An eminent oncologist somewhere. An eminent oncologist. Try saying that when you haven't put your teeth in. I shall do my best. I shall do my best for you, Sam. Why is heart counter so rare? And I'll even add the second question because I'm feeling so bounteous and generous, even though it wouldn't ordinarily be allowed. Tom's in. It says Heffield here, but I'm going to go on a limb and suggest it's supposed to be Sheffield. That's right, yeah. Go on then, question. Carry on. I would like to know when egging became a form of political dissent. Who was the first politician to become or to get egged quite like that? It's probably way back, isn't it? It's had a bit of a renaissance recently with, I think, Jeremy Corby. I think there might be a life court case on that one. But there was an australian politician who was egged shortly after the Christchurch massacre. So you want the first example recorded example of a politician having an egg thrown at them? Ideally, yeah. Yeah. So do I know. Let's see what we can do. You're not allowed to look stuff up, remember? I have to make that absolutely clear. Which sets the bar pretty high on Tom's question. And the reason you're not allowed to look stuff up is because we're trying to, as I somewhat pompously insist, we're trying to celebrate knowledge rather than the tyranny of the search engine under which we all now live. Which is great, but still, I like knowing stuff. It's like poems. If you can recite a poem from memory, it's a slightly beautiful thing. If you stand up in public and read a poem without understanding what the words perfidious albion mean. Then you're Mark Francois. What is the trigger for childbirth? Is it chemical, biological, physical? What's the most expensive liquid on the planet at room temperature? Why is heart cancer so rare compared to other organs? And the first politician recorded to have an egg hurled at their bonds? This is LBC. This is LBC. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. Just a brief glance at the unfolding news agenda before we return to mystery. The lawyer for one of the complainants in the Julian Assange allegations of sexual assault and rape. The lawyer has just tweeted. My client and I have just received the news that Assange has been arrested in London. It did understandably come as a shock to my client that what we have been waiting and hoping for since 2012 has now finally happened. We are going to do everything we possibly can to get the swedish police investigation reopened so that Assange can be extradited to Sweden and prosecuted for rape. More on that story throughout the day on LBC as and indeed when it develops back to mystery hour. The mirrors thing, I should have just said, well, no, someone needs to have a crack at it. Why does. When you hold up your right hand, why does your reflection hold up their left hand? I think it's almost too obvious to explain. That's philosophy, isn't it? It's just the straight reflection. It's what is in front of you. But does that mean our brain inverts everything the rest of the time? I don't think that's true, but now I'm just sounding really stupid, so I shall stop. Jeremy is in Bracknell. Jeremy Questioner answer. It's an answer. Carry on, Jeremy. So it's about the cancers and why they occur at different rates in different organs. So there's a couple of strands to it, but the most important one is that where you have a larger organ or an organ that has pairs. So like a kidney, for instance, where you've got a spare one. Yeah. It's less likely to kill you. So in evolutionary terms, those organs had less need to adapt to cancer. So if you have an organ like the heart, you get a cancer, you die, you don't breed. So the organs developed cancer protective mechanisms in the ones that are more likely to immediately kill. Hang on a minute. That all sounds a bit alternative arrangements that does. Cancer protective mechanisms, they protect you from cancer, but I can't tell you what they are. What are they? So you'll have lots of different mechanisms in cells, but they will typically be ways of stopping the cells dividing in an uncontrolled way. So there are cellular mechanisms, but it's also down to where the cell, where the organ sits. So your skin, which is an organ, gets quite a lot of cancer, even though it's big, and there's lots of it, because that's exposed a lot, so it gets bombarded with uv, it's on the outside, and ones that turn over cells more quickly as well. So the liver, you know, it's doubly affected, because the liver is a big organ, so it's got less adaptive mechanisms and it has rapid cell turnover, so it heals well, but it makes more cancer because it's doing that. The heart is small, it's critical slow cell turnover. So it's the classic example of one that has the adaptive mechanisms, because if it didn't, we'd all be dead. Blimey. That was strong qualifications. I'm a GP and have separate degrees in human physiology, biochemistry and biomedical science. First applause of the day. Well done, Jeremy. Thank you very much indeed. This is almost the definition of a country that has not had enough of experts. Between twelve and one. Every Thursday on LBC, Kim's in Brixton. Kim, question or answer? Question? Please carry on. Why air fares, why did they change so constant, even on one, say, one airline? Not every different airline. The flight today could be, I don't know, 46, and tomorrow the same time as 90, then you look again and it's 80, then you. You know where they constantly change and there's no, I don't know, what's the word? Like, you can buy a pair of red shoes, they cost you 40 quid. It's algorithms. Algorithms? Algorithms is the new osmosis. I used to say osmosis when I didn't know the answer to a sciency sounding question and pretend that it was actually valid. But I think algorithms is the new one. If. Oh, it sounds like might be algorithm. It's supply and demand in it. Kim. And then it's algorithm. No, not necessarily. If I'm looking at a flight now and it's one price, and I phone up my friend, I say, get this one, it's this cost. Have a look. And they look and it's gone up, or it goes down, or I'll buy it and then she'll buy it an hour later, it's a different price. They go down sometimes as well. Oh, yes, algorithms. I don't think it is. Of course it is. What do you think it is, then? I don't know. That's why I'm coming over here. Coming over. It denigrate. Denigrating my algorithms. What have you got instead? It's algorithms. It's all about. Okay, but you understand what I mean. Of course I do. I'm not completely stupid, Kim. Three most important words in the english language. I don't know. And I'll find out for you if it kills me, Kim, thank you very much. I'm sure I'm not the only one who wants to know. I bet you're not. Are you off on your holidays anytime soon? No, but I do have to travel quite a lot and flipping. Looking for a cheap flight. It's not even looking for a cheap one, it's looking for one. That's not a ridiculous price. It's murder sometimes. And then they announce it on the day. You know the day that. The day they go up and they all get snapped up immediately and, you know, you're sitting by your phone, pressing refresh on your laptop, or whatever it might be, but, yeah, it is odd. Why is there such a disparity in prices? And think you've got a great deal, then you see it two, three weeks later and it's gone down. Yeah. I think that is incredibly irritating. Never, ever, ever ask other people what they've paid for their holiday when you're away sitting next to yourself. Yeah, but even if you've got a bargain yourself, you're going to ruin their holiday by having the conversation. So, not ruined, but certainly undermined slightly. A lovely question. Thank you, Kim. Charlie's in Muswell Hill. Charlie, question or answer? I've got a question. Please, James, carry on. So, why is a black box, an aircraft black box, called a black box when it's usually orange? Was it. Were they black to start with? I don't know. That's what I'm asking. Is the orange? Is the orange. What do you mean? It's a design change. It's an orange case. But there's a black box inside the orange box. I don't know. Nor do I. I shall find out. Why is this? It's normally orange? Because obviously, if you're searching for it in the sea or something like that, the black box will be the worst imaginable color. You want something that reflects a lot of light, don't you? Yeah. I know the reason why they. Why it is orange, but then why not call it an orange box in the first place? Why does it have to be called a black box? It could be like me, I'd just be massive fans of alliteration. Yeah. Yeah. You never know. Well, let's find out for you, Charlie. Why is the black box called a black box, given that the black box is a box but isn't black alice is in Tunbridge. Alice, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Oh, the mirror. The person in the mirror is just like somebody standing in front of you. And it depends which side of that person you're on. This is sounding. You're sounding even more convoluted than I did. We're both right. No, no, no. It's like your reflection is somebody. Yes. If you were standing in front of them and lifted up your left arm. Yes. If you walk behind that person, it would be the opposite. Yes. I know I said all that. I'm looking for something. It's not. It's not the brain. It just depends which way you're facing. I want something pithier than that because I agree with you. I know you're right, but I'm not giving you a round of applause for that because I said the same thing. And it's slightly. I would, I would. No, I don't. I'm not expecting a round of applause. I want to give you a round of applause. I have it all the time in my job because I. A driving instructor. Yes. And I try and get people to reverse and they say, do I turn the wheel left or right? And I say, well, sit looking at the front of the car and point to the left. So they point to the curb. Yeah. On the left. And I say, right, now turn around, look at the back window and point to the left. Yeah. They obviously point to the roadside and they. Oh, yeah, it's the other way. I'm giving you a round of applause for that because it just seems pertinent. Yeah. You know, and they get very confused when they're looking in mirrors with people overtaking, because they're told all their lives, mirrors reverse the image, but they don't really register it. Well, I was looking back at you to see you looking back at me to see me looking back at you. Yeah, it's all. Name that tune. Name that tune, Alice. Name that tune in one. No, I can't. Oh, come on, Alice. I was looking back at you to see you looking back at me to see me looking back at you. No, no. Trip. Hop into Mozart. Oh, do you. Oh, round of applause for Alice. Even though she didn't recognize that class of massive attack, I think, isn't it? Tune. Anyway, that's. You're right. But there might be a line that they use in mirror school. Mirror school. That just encapsulates everything that we've warbled about correctly. Yassin is in Luton. Yasin. Question or answer? Hi, James. Answer, please. Carry on, mate. So what initiates childbirth? Yes. So ultimately it's a hormone called oxytocin, released from the mom's brain. But there are a few. A couple of theories as to what causes that. Basically, the baby needs to say, I'm ready, it's the mom. And that's when the hormones released. How so? Either one theory is that the lungs release a certain protein when they're ready. It's just a theory. A couple of theories. Yeah, yeah, fair enough. The other is cortisol, which is a hormone being released from the adrenal glands of the baby. To say that everything's ready. So the answer to the original question is both, pretty much. I don't think there are physics involved, per se, but. Well, there's physics in the sense that if the woman was standing on her head, the baby might never come out. So there could be physics involved in at least sort of very low level gravitational way, but. So a hormone in the brain. But that would probably. That is triggered by something from the baby and anything in the baby has come from the mother. Anyway, so if we were to get really technical about it, it's, it's, it's. No, it's both. It's both qualifications, actually. Before I carry on. Um, I'm a pediatrician, I see babies come out every day and I need to argue, I need to make them breathe and stuff. Yeah, I'm not gonna. I don't think we're gonna get much more definitive than that, actually. Have you delivered any babies yet today? I'm on my day off, which is lucky, because it's the first time I've actually listened to your show live. Yasin, welcome aboard. What a debut. Carry on. Round of applause for yas, doctor Yasen. Thank you very much. Have a nice. Thank you for all the work that you do. Sometimes forget to register that John's in Horsham. John, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question for you, friend. Carry on, mate. Right, okay. With the. With the up and final season coming up with a great program, I want to know, where the hell did dragons come from? Where do they get invented from? I mean, we've got a constellation in the. Named after dragons, we've got a flag on the Welsh, you know, the dragon on the flag. Where and when did dragons come about? Because if everyone closes their eyes and thinks, what dragon is. We all come up with the same image? Pretty much, yeah. So where did it come from? Who. Who's the mind behind this? There could be around the OTA, if the person invented it, phones up, says it was me, there's no way they'd still be alive. You prune. St George was hundreds of years ago. It was always banging on about dragons. Oh, of course, St George. George sort of thought the dragon didn't. He asked me why. For me, she'd say it was a horse with a horn coming out. My mind being linked to that. Or. No, there could be. I mean, what, like Komodo dragons? You got dinosaurs, I imagine. Well, my great theory of Brexit involves dragons. Somebody invented dragons so that they could get money to be a dragon slayer. So somebody like, you know, Sir David of Davis, walked around little villages, knocking on doors, going, hey, if you owe, slaying dragons is rather like making love to a beautiful woman. If you. You give me 20 pounds, you give me 20 guineas and I will protect you from the dragon that has just immolated the next village. And then you can put up a breaking point poster. Everyone will be putting their money in their pockets, throwing it all over to the dragon slayer. There were never any dragons. But dragons got invented by dragon slayers. I bet you 50 quid I'm right. But it'd be impossible to prove. I tell you. I tell you what, it will be very interesting and I'll be able to watch the Mother of dragons on Fandango. Now, I've only read the book. I've only read the book of the first series. I read it on holiday last month, a couple of months ago, so I know of what you speak, but I don't. I'm only up to the point where the dragons are born. Game of Thrones, of course, for the slow on the uptake, 1230 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we want to know actually who invented dragons. Who invented dragons? Lisa Aziz is here now with the headlines. Julian Assange has been arrested at the 6097. 312 36 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery act continues questions still in need of answers. We've done well on childbirth. What's the most expensive liquid in the world has to be at room temperature? You can't say. Like melted diamonds. Why have I written down egg? Oh, who was the first politician to have an egg thrown at them? Do we know? Was it in ancient Rome done the mirrors question. But there is still room for. I know we gave a round of applause, but there is still room on that. Why did the price of aeroplane flights vary so much even in relatively small windows? And why do we call a black box a black box when it's actually orange? Oh, and who invented dragons? Where do dragons come from? I bet I'm right. It will be early Brexiters pretending that dragons existed in order to get, you know, money and prestige and radio shows. You can just sort of tell lies for 30 years and then at the end of the process, hey, hey, I'm a famous dragon slayer, or Brexiteer as I prefer to call myself. Paul's in crowbra. Paul, question or answer? Hi James, I've got an answer. Come on then. Any of the aviation ones? But your researcher suggested I go for the black box one. Yes. A black box is a bit of a unicorn really. There's absolutely no reason why it's called a black box. It's international orange, it's got the flight data recorder in it, the cockpit voice recorder, it's painted obviously that color so for searching, as you correctly said on reference to that. But there's absolutely no reason that it's possible that it was called a black box because internally it might be completely void of light. But that's, that's it, there's no reason for it at all. But when did it start? Well when they started building them. Yeah but. So someone called it a black box at some point, didn't they? Yeah, but it's more a sort of populist sort of thing that found its way into the press. You know they've always been, to my knowledge, as far as I know they've always been painted orange and there are two parts to them and they're clearly labeled as a date, flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder and that's that. No, fair enough. I will add I'm giving you qualifications actually first. I'm just an aviation buff of many years standing. Like it. I'm going to give you a round of applause. If someone can say it was first used in dot dot dot, then I'm going to give them a round of applause as well. But you get this one. Definitely. Thank you. No thank you Paul. But as I say, as with the mirrors questionnaire, it seems to be. I've been very generous today. It's nice being generous. 1 hour a week. Mister, mister friendly. David's in Hampstead. David, question or answer? Hi James. It's a question. The last answer was the most british thing I've heard all day. Why? I just think it's so blunt, such a blunt, clear answer. Just is. It just is. My question is why in some sports, do they change the number zero for nil? Or in the case of tennis, to love? Well, the tennis one is, oddly enough, it's. It's french. It comes from loaf, so it looks. The. The oval shaped egg looks like a zero. So that was called Cannes Loew because of pictograms. Because what about nil? Well, it's got fewer syllables than zero. But why specifically in sports, would you. White wine football, would it not be 10? I mean, it sounds weird, but 10. Well, the thing. You might have just answered it, I think. Nil. It just. That's not really a good enough reason. I'm not going to give myself a round of applause for it, but I'll be surprised if it's more complicated than just that ease of expression. It's latin for. But then why, in some countries, like, I know, America, they can use maybe zero. But specifically here in football. Football is the biggest one. It's nil. No one says 10. No, but nil just means nothing. It's not. I mean, you could equally ask the question the other way around. I mean, but it's not nothing. And when someone hasn't scored a goal, it's not nothing. It's just an absence of something. Yet nil means nothing. Zero would make more sense. Because nothing would mean. They're synonyms. They can't make more sense. They're synonyms. They mean the same thing. Well, zero. Zero is a number. It doesn't. When you score one goal in football, you don't become something nil. It's one nil. So why doesn't it stick to the numbers? But nil and zero mean the same thing. So then why is it not. Why is it not something? Was it not nothing? You keep asking millions of questions, but, I mean, oddly enough, you've highlighted the answer to this question, your opening comments. It just is. And there's no mystery here, because nil means nothing. So it's one nothing. One nil, one nothing. 10. There's no reason why it wouldn't be like that. I said, I sense that we're never going to end this conversation. You've got. You're going to have a. But then whatever I say, the answer is, because it is. That doesn't really. That doesn't really. You just said it was the most british thing you ever heard a minute ago saying, because it is. Can't have it both ways. No, just because it was dry, not because. I see. No. Well, nil means nothing. So you're asking, why do we say nothing? Why don't we use a different word to say the same thing? And that's not really. When you score a goal, it would be rather than one nil, it would be something nothing, and then you score two goals would be some things nothing. Yeah. I understand what you're saying, but try and think of it this way around the chances, your chances of coming back after this for yet another comment are nil. Martin's in Maidstone. Martin, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's stewards inquiry, really, to the black box question, really. But it was so neat. Go on. Yeah. Doesn't have to. Well, neat, but wrong. Carry on. It goes back to the first days of cybernetics, where scientists wanted to analyze closed systems. And a closed system was called a black box and an open system was called a white box. And you can analyze how a signal goes from the input to output, which is called a transfer function. By applying a standard, clever known input and looking at the output, I understood about 15% inside of something without actually looking at it. So it's a technical term, not a physical. No, it doesn't describe a physical entity. It describes a technological phenomenon. It also was used to describe electronic boxes, but cybernetics made it more general to include. So there are lots of black boxes. No, they are not confined to airplane flight recorders, but. Oh, that's right. Basically anybody who, in the early days. Oh, and it might be any color at all. It wouldn't have any color in that sense, would it? It just implies it's. You can't see inside it. Well, I'm not worried. I'm not withdrawing the other fellows round of applause because. Because nothing he said was wrong. He just didn't go far. He didn't know. No. He didn't go as far. No. I said, it just is. I said, it just is. I was being glib and a little bit facetious after he'd already gone, but he did. I. I will add a call, I will add another round of applause to someone who can explain the origins rather than the practice. Okay. And that's you qualifications I know already, but remind my other listeners. Well, I'm president of the Cybernetic Society in the UK. It's very, very close. You're not just that, you're also a professor of robotics. Are you still a professor of robotics? At the University of. Recently retired. Well, congratulations on your retirement. Are you enjoying it? Absolutely, yes. Especially, I can listen to your program more often, which would make a lot of work. How many presidents of the cybernetic society have there been in the last few years? An annual appointment, or is it a lifetime appointment? I've been president for ten years. You never mentioned that before. You never asked. Well, I just presume everyone else is as boastful as I am, Martin, you know, but I just. How many people are in the cybernetic society? About 500. And you've been president for ten years and the answer to your question demanded a knowledge of cybernetics. And you are the president of the Cybernetics Society, which exists to promote the understanding of cybernetics. Precisely. So I think you're over the line, Martin. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Excellent. Two in a row. Brilliant. They will come. Professor Hal is going to kill you. It's coming up to quarter to one. You're listening to James O'Brien. Have your round of applause as well, Professor Martin. Thank you very much. We'll come back and answer some more questions imminently. Coming up at one with James O'Brien. It's 1247 already. Sheila will be here imminently to steer you back into the rather fertile ground. You can steer into ground. Mixing my metaphors again. Anyway, she'll be talking about all the important stuff that is continuing to unfold, not least that arrest of and removal from the ecuadorian embassy of Julian Assange. Rachel Venables has just tweeted that he's also been arrested on behalf of the United States. This happened as soon as he arrived at the police station. And so talk of extradition begins. And those words of the ecuadorian president, that they've received a written assurance from the british government that Mister Assange will not be exposed to any torture or death penalty, which presumably, torture is not officially legal in America, but the death penalty, of course, is. So presumably, if there is any prospect of extradition there, then the british government will be either in receipt already of, or seeking confirmation of an american pledge not to invoke the death penalty, whatever Assange is or is not convicted of. Tom's in Basingstoke. Tom, question or answer? I've got an answer, James, carry on. Some. Yeah, it's about the airline seats and why the pricing changes. Yes, yes, yes, go on. So, basically, the main driver behind it is the amount of seats left. So you were right when you were saying it's a supply and demand thing. So if you take the guys like British Airways, Lufthansa, Virgin, they're known as scheduled airlines. And imagine you have, say, 100 seats in economy, they would sell the first ten for the lowest price so that they can advertise that price and have a really good thing for marketing the next ten. They would sell at slightly higher price and so on and so on until you've got the last ten and then that's the day. Are they the more expensive? Do they ever come down? Because we would thought me and the lady who asked the question thought that they come down sometimes. Yeah, they do. So with the scheduled airlines, say if there was a cancellation or something and, you know, one of the first ten seats comes, I'm just using that analogy, gets relet into the system, then, yeah, they can come down. The other thing to think about is, as you go up, the price, the price grades and the flexibility and how refundable they are increases as well. So if you buy one of the very cheap tickets, it's going to be 100% non refundable and non changeable. And if you buy the most expensive one, then you can perhaps change it for free and you can cancel it for free. And the other thing to think about as well is that's with the scheduled airlines, they have to go. So guys like Bae, Lufthansa, Virgin, if you're looking at the chartered airlines, like Tui and Monarch have gone now, but guys like that, they work kind of the other way around. So they will fill up their seats as much as they can and then if they've got any leftover, they'll. They'll flog them off cheap. A lovely answer. Do you know, I've enjoyed your answer so much, I haven't pedantically hauled you over the coals for pronouncing the word schedule in the american fashion. I'm sorry for even mentioning it at all. What are your qualifications, Tom? I've worked in the travel industry for probably about ten years now. I sold a lot of flights myself. That's a perfect answer. I love it. Especially the little bit about it being a marketing ploy so you can advertise the cheaper tickets and then when, as many of us have probably discovered, you ring up saying, oh, I'll have one of those tickets for twelve pence, please. I'm terribly sorry. It's 200 now. Andrew's in Newcastle. Andrew. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So, for the most expensive liquid. Oh, I've forgotten about that. Yeah, go on. I believe it's a gene therapy treatment which is marketed as glybera it treats a genetic deficiency where the patient can't process fats, and a single dose, which is about 1 ML, costs approximately 40,000 pounds. Holy moly. So Emma would be right on that. And the lads on the top floor be hanging their heads in shame of their suggestion that it would be wine. 40 grand for a milliliter? What are your qualifications? So, I work as a consultant for a firm that supplies processing technologies into the biologic. So this is very much your world. What else would be a contender? There's a lot of biologics that are kind of similarly priced, but that one that I mentioned has the most kind of infamous reputation. It was known as the million dollar drug. So I think there's only probably about 30 people worldwide actually being treated with it because of the expense and the rarity of the condition. And that's to reflect the car. Just thinking, because if you've sold a bottle of wine for half a million quid, which just brings a vague bell with me, I could be wrong. That's 750 mil. So, yeah, 40,000 times 750. Oh, it's on a different scale entirely, isn't it? Ten, seven. Yeah, I think you can. I've got. I've got. Can you. Do you want to stay on the line? I've got someone else. We're going to compare. All right. Okay. Stay there. Stay there. Trevin is in Bracknell. Treven, what have you got? Hi, James, it's Trevine. First time caller, Travine. I do apologize. You're fine. It's only mystery. No one ever gets hurt on mystery. So I couldn't quite hear the honorable gentleman speaking before me, but 40 grand a milliliter for a liquid gene therapy? Beg your pardon? 40,000 pounds per milliliter for a liquid gene therapy. Right. Okay. I have less than that. I couldn't tell you, which is true. I used to basically work within the perfume industry. I'm currently an insight analyst working at a big data firm, and I believe it to be scorpion venom. Just because there are only 25 species that actually produce that venom, which is capable of killing a human in the world. It's used for all kinds of medicinal purposes, as well as you have a few people who also black market along southeast Asia as well as parts of the US. So I believe it to be $39 million per gallon. And if you work that out into milliliters, it's around $8,670. The second to the throne would be scorpion venom. Sorry? Scorpion venom first, and then king cobra being second. Beg your pardon? I'm glad we put you on because that's absolutely fascinating. But as I think we've established, it's not going to knock this liquid gene therapy off the top of the perch. Yeah, but, I mean, no offense to Andrew, but your answer is more interesting, even though this is more. Right. I just love the idea of scorpion venom. It's not a job I'd fancy. And if you really want to dive into the fragrance industry, ambergris, which is also known as whales vomit, which you can only extrapolate from a whale once you've either killed it or it's been dead on land, or it washes up sometimes on the beach, doesn't it? There you go. I've read about that. I think it happened in Norfolk and some kid walked away with about 80 grams worth of ambergris. Literally. Yeah. No, it's astonishing. And it is kind of technically banned. So whenever you go to a fragrance that goes to anybody, if they say ambergris is within the perfume, in addition to Musk, it's going to be synthetic because it's illegal to essentially harvest it. Otherwise, travine, you are a fount of all knowledge. Unfortunately, none of it has proved enough to get you a round of applause. Andrew, you've seen off that challenge, Andrew, even though you didn't realize it was coming, and it means you get the round of applause at this point in proceedings. Thank you very much. 1255 is the time. Who invented dragons? Who was the first politician to have an egg thrown at their head? Luke's in market in Sweden. Luke. Question or answer? That was. That was very well pronounced. Thank you very much. Answer. Carry on. Dragons. I believe the answer is in the Bible, actually. So the book of Job, chapter 41 has a description, Leviathan. So if I'm allowed to read for a second, it says it's snorting, throws out flashes of light. Its eyes are like the rays of dawn. Flames stream from its mouth, smoke pours from its nostrils, so that I can't think of anything earlier than that. That doesn't matter, does it? That's going to be a good answer. The fellow who asked it thought that the person who invented dragons might still be alive. Bless his little cotton socks. Forgotten completely about St George. Afraid not. So which book are the first book? Is it in? It is job, chapter 41. So is it in the Old Testament? It is actually God speaking to job. So fire a drag. God invented dragon. You could be quite controversial, like I think your qualifications are. You've read the Bible myself. You've read the Bible? Yeah. You're. That's a lovely. I love the course. It's in the Old Testament book of joke. There you go. The first dragon we can think of. There might be others did. What about in mythology? Were there any dragons in. They weren't worth a. Hercules didn't kill any dragons or anything like that. They had all sorts of other. What's that word I'm looking for? I can think of anything else. It's not a special dragon interest of mine, it's just. I think it's pretty cool that it's in the Bible. You've done it. Round of applause for Luke. A lovely answer. Didn't they were gonna get that. Thanks, James. Oh, thank you. I mean, whether or not. I mean, if it was God speaking through a dragon to Joe, I can't even sort of conjure it up into a. Into a scaremongering story, like saying, if you don't believe in me, then the dragon might come and breathe. Well, maybe you could. I need to. I need to revise my job. Sheila Fogarty will be all over it. She's coming up to 1258. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. She didn't say top floor, James, it was Derbyshire dialect. She said shop floor. That is my favorite accent in the whole country. Whenever I see. Emma's been kind enough to ring me a few times from Alfredton in Nottinghamshire and that soft. Those soft Nottinghamshire accents I could listen to all day, but I wasn't listening closely enough. So I wasn't saying to the lads on the top floor, get back in your box. I was saying to the lads on the shop floor, get back in your box. You were wrong and Emma was right. Aaron's in Hertfordshire. Question or answer, Aaron? Answer. Just a follow up to that dragon question. Oh, good. Go. So it's not just from the Bible. There are lots of different types of dragons in various cultures. So like greek mythology, chinese mythology. Chinese have their versions as well. Yeah. Which would predate the Bible probably. Um, yeah. And there's a lot of theories about kind of where they come from. So remind me where they are in greek mythology, if you can. You don't have to. I'm not gonna. Oh, well, so there's the hydra, which is a kind of snake like being. Yeah. It's not a dragon. No. We're thinking specifically of fire, dream fire breathing, enormous dinosaur like lizard people. So it's a lizard like creature. And there's also. I can't believe that name. In one of the labels of Hercules. There is golden tree. Not having it. There's nothing dragon like in the labors of Hercules, is there not a giant dragon that guards the tree? And like one of the final labors that Atlas has to collect the apples from. No, that's not the labors of Hercules. What's Atlas got to do with it? Well, because the garden was. Hercules didn't enter it, so he had to hold up the world for Atlas to collect the apples for him. You sound. You sound more knowledgeable than I do, which is. My confidence begins to wobble slightly, but I don't remember. I don't know if it's a dragon symphony, but certainly giant. Anyway, she was here. I've got. Speaking of. No, I could never, not in a million. Not in a million years would I drop that gag into prison. Not in a million, not enough, not in a millennia of millennia would be proud of. Apologize, take my wife. That's it for me for another day. Erin's on the money. Because chinese mythology presumably goes back further than the Bible. We may find out next week. In the meantime, here is Sheila Fogarty. You little monster. Coming up in the next few hours, most importantly, Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn will go head to head in the Commons. She will be reporting back from Brussels, where that six month extension to Brexit was agreed in the middle of the night by the EU. What now for her?