What do moths get out of wool?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. And here it is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of centre section not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio. Give me a ring. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a mystery. I don't know, how much explanation do you need these days, really? I'm conscious of wanting new people, people discovering this moment of radio magic, to feel welcome, to feel warm and to feel appreciated. But I don't know. I mean, it's mystery out. People ring in with mysteries. I sort of banter a bit with them and then people ring in with answers and I banter a bit with them as well. And somehow, from those rather unprepossessing ingredients, magnificent meals are made, magnificent cakes are baked, magnificent moments are shared. But in the first instance, I can't do much unless you bring in my favorite contribution of the day wins a magnificent prize. This week's prize is a brooch of purest green. No, I'm joking. This week's prize is the same as every week's prize. It is a brand new mystery hour board game. Hours of fun. All the family as well, genuinely, all the family. Play it with nephews, play it with grandparents, in laws. Everybody loves mystery hour and it's one of those very social games as well, which becomes a sort of the bedrock upon which you can build beautiful times together. More at mysteryhour dot co dot UK or get a free one by being brilliant on mystery hour today. You can find the full terms and conditions at LBC dot co dot UK. I think we just crack straight on. Will we? Karen is in cradle Heath. Karen, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Karen. James. I've just come back from a lovely holiday in grace. Splendid. Where were you? Whereabouts? Corfu Kerkia. Oh. And it was all right, was it? Beautiful? Yeah. Forget the barf eyes, that was. That was hyped up worse than it was. Yeah. I never believe anything on mainstream media. Except for you, Jay. You're on mainstream media now, Karen. Except for you. All right, then, go on, then. I shouldn't have asked. What's the question? Right, so me and my husband having a bit of a tanning competition, as we always do. Yes. My question is, why does certain parts of your body take longer to tan than other parts of your body? It's, um. It's all controlled by the World Economic Forum, probably, yeah. But our legs. Your legs are always the last to go brown. Yeah, well, it'll be so. I mean, the short answer will be melanin, won't it? It's to do with. I know, I know you get brown because of the amount of melanin in your skin, but surely you haven't got less melanin in your legs than everywhere else. Yeah, you will have, because you've got more melanin underneath the freckle than you have in the rest of your body. So it's going to be something to do. I think it is. I'm sounding like I know what I'm talking about, but I think it's going to have something to do with melanin distribution and the bits of your body that are exposed to the sunlight least are going to be the bits that tan hardest. So if you. If you. If you. Well, I went to a nudist beach once in Crete, actually, Karen. Yes, I did. And did you go very brown? I wasn't there long enough. But if I had. If I had been, then I suspect the bits that your legs would go brown quicker than your bits because they see even less. Your bits see even less sunlight than your legs do, but your arms go more than your body, than your chest does. Yeah, but my stomach goes really brown in, like, three days. But it takes a lot longer for my legs to catch up. Yeah, well, the stomach is a good example because you wouldn't. You don't. I presume you're not wandering around cradly in a. In a. In a crop top on a regular basis? I shall. Listen. If I promise to get you an answer, will you promise to be a bit more open to the fact that people who do what I do for a living are generally more trustworthy than people on Facebook? James, please don't get me wrong, I'm your biggest fan. No, I know, but it's not just me, but my friends and family are journalists and I promise you that almost all of them on proper papers are. Well, they're doing a decent job, I promise you. Especially on stuff. Especially on stuff like, you know, COVID and clean air and all that stuff. Promise me you'll at least think about it. Yeah, I only listen to you, Jones. All right, well, you'll be safe. You'll be safe. Take minutes after there's a book as well. Neil's in South Horn church. Neil, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Neil. Moths. Moths? Moth in your clothes? Yes. What possible nutrition can they get out of eating wool and keep living? Well, I mean, what about woodworm? Well, they eat wood. Yeah. What possible nutrition can they get out of wood? True. I mean, it's just grass. We wouldn't be much use eating grass, would we? But cows do. Yeah, but I mean, the moth. I mean, what. Okay, so I want to know what nutrition it gets. What, what does it, how does it keep alive by eating. It's organic. Okay? It's organic material, isn't it? Anything organic is nourishing. That's straight up. Is it? I'm not going to get a round of applause for that, am I? But it's going to be part. I mean, the answer is, I mean, it's about what you can digest, so. Okay, energy. I'm going to have a go at this. Sure. Energy. Strap yourself in. Strap yourself in. So everything is energy, right? So what you have in your tummy is the capacity to turn one type of energy into another type of energy. And your energy comes from carbohydrates and protein. But there's some things you wouldn't be able to break down, like grass and wood and also wool. But if you had a dish, could we not eat anything from wood? I don't think so. I mean. I mean, you might. I wouldn't have thought so. I mean, don't try this at home, children. Don't go and slice a bit off the trunk. But your sister can have a lolly, you can have the stick, the but the, but the. You break the wall. So it's obviously, it's taken in. If it's taking energy to create it. Right? Yeah. Then you can break it down to release energy. And that is why. And that is why it's not. That's not bad, Neil, is it? It's not, it's not bad. No, but we'll go further. Someone will go further. Yeah, you know, definitely, definitely. But that'll be close. I like it. Well, you haven't got moths, have you? Because we met a lovely bloke in, uh, where was it? Brentwood, I think, who just set up a pest control company last week. Oh, I listened to that. Yeah. Yeah. You're not, you're not infested. Well, no, I had to go to a funeral a couple of weeks ago. My wife said, get your black card, your nice black Reese cardigan out. Oh, nice. Yeah, yeah, I said that. We've got a hole in it. Yeah, but something small. I've sewn it up when I got out. There's about four different new ones come back again. It's a lavender. Gotta get the lavender. Well, you think it's probably time to say goodbye to that particular cardigan. If you turned up at my funeral in a cardigan, full holes, Neil, I would not be very well. I probably wouldn't notice, but I wouldn't. If I was capable of clocking it, I wouldn't be very impressed. Thank you, Neil. How can moths live on wool and we can't? Dave's ingot, goose tree and cheshire. Dave, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Carry on. Why do we lick our thumbs? To make them sticky. To turn pages on newspapers and books. Yes. Well, this is because the page, the paper, is absorbent, so it creates a sort of bond, a glue like bond. Okay. Well, I tell you, I've actually spoken to you before. I'm a percussionist with the Halley orchestra. And when we do trills, quiet trills on a tambourine, we lick our thumbs to go around the skin and the thumb judders on the skin. So that would fit with my theory, wouldn't it? Because it's sticking a bit and the skin is not absorbent. So it is a bit. Yeah. So, isn't it? I don't know what happens if you don't lick your finger. Is it finger or thumb? When you're trilling a tambourine, it's either thumb or finger. You can do either. But if you don't, then the thumb just slides along the. The tambourine. So if you don't lick it, it's frictionless, and if you do lick it, it's friction. It must be absorbing a bit, then, mustn't it? I don't know. It's a great question. I prefer. Why did you come in on the newspapers? I'd have gone in on the tambourines personally if I'd rung you. It's a better question. Yeah. Yeah. Well, if you're walking along a pavement and it's slightly wet, yeah, I know pavement's not absorbent, but you know that. Then you slip over. So it seems to me counterintuitive to lick your finger or your thumb, but the pavement has formed a sheen on top of the. The water has formed a sheen on top of the pavement, like. Like. I imagine it was ice rather than water. It's not. It's. It's. It's not. It's. I don't think this is going very well. No, I mean, to be honest, to demonstrate to pupils, sometimes my pupils, how. How licking your thumb can make it judder. I actually do it on a table or a hard surface and it works. It makes it judder. So you've got to have a. You've got to have the way that you're tripped. You're not just pushing your finger across the surface, are you? Is there not a technique to a trill? I mean, you put a bit of pressure on, a slight bit of pressure, but not a great deal. What are you working on at the moment? We're actually on holiday at the moment. We start back in September. And what's up first? You know, we're recording the complete ballet music for Benjamin, Britain's Prince of the Pagodas, which is fantastic piece. Is there a lot in it for you? Yeah, lots and lots. How do you do it? When you get a new piece? You flick through looking to see how much percussion there is. Yeah. Straight away. Yeah. How many lines you've got for actors, really, isn't it? It's the same. Exactly, yeah. I find your job absolutely fascinating. I was at the Bridgewater hall not long ago, but it was. It wasn't for one of your gigs. It was the BBC lot doing BC. Oh, dear. Right. Well, don't say oh, dear. Usually the same, but, um, I find your job fascinating. Yeah. Just. Yeah, because there's quite a lot of not doing much and then it's relish. And then on other pieces of music, you're very, very busy. But sometimes they do so as. Because you're either bored to death or scared to death. Oh, I've not heard that before. That's exactly what I was trying to communicate. Who was. Who's the bloke who does the. Really? Um. It sounds like choral music. Well, it is choral music, but he's still alive. He's quite modern, but he's very. They did him. The thing I went to. It was a really good one for Carl Jenkins. No, he's just passed away, hasn't he? Oh, dear. I think I may be wrong. I'll tell you. De profundis part. Olaf part. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Arvo part. Arvo part, yeah. That's good for a percussionist, isn't it? He's got the bells and everything. Is that you do? You do the dongs? That's right, yeah, yeah, yeah. I like that. You don't sound enthused by Arvo part. Is he not one of your favourites? Not a massive fan, no. He's coming across that, actually. Does this make me a bit of a philistine, then, thinking, oh, not at all. No. It's good stuff. Is it good stuff? Not my bag. I just really enjoy. Well, I shall see you on stage. At the Bridgewater hall at some point in the not too distant future I'm up in. When I'm up in Manchester. I've got the date, actually. I'll double check in a minute. Thank you, Dave. 1215 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. I just accidentally killed someone. Karl Davis passed away. The brilliant composer Carl Davis. Not Carl Jenkins, the composer that Davis talking about, the percussionist with the Halle orchestra just up in Manchester. Trilling a tambourine. 18 minutes after twelve was the time. Why does licking your finger create friction? I guess is the question, isn't it? I think. I mean, it helps stickier for turning a page or trilling a tambourine. Why? How can moths eat wool and we can't? And why do some parts of our body tan quicker and deeper than others? But just again, Carl Jenkins very much still with us, I'm delighted to say. Tom's in Hopton on sea. Tom, what would you like? Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Tom. We've had a lot of rain recently. Well, this week has been really nice, but two weeks before that, that was just rain, rain, rain. It was. And I just wondered why sometimes you get drizzle, sometimes you get what I would call normal rain, and sometimes that really come down hard. I mean, my mem at school, we used to do the experiment of a cloud as like a sponge, but you haven't got someone up there, squeeze in a cloud to make the water come out quicker. So why does. Why do you have different pressures of rain? Really? Yeah. I don't know if that's a brilliant question or a daft one. Yeah. Why does it not just get to a certain volume of water, the cloud, and then it drops? Why does it maybe then get balls quicker? Or it can't be heavier, can it? No. So I didn't know why you get the size of drop. Size of drop. Could size of drop be. I think it's something to do. It can't be the wind pushing it down quicker because I thought the wind would go side to side. Whether. People talk a lot about pressure, so maybe the pressure we're talking about is linked to the pressure. They talk about pressure because pressure would increase the speed with which the rain comes up. Would it? Would it? Yes. I like that. That's a good question, I think. But if it's a daft one, then we're both in it together because I'm on side. I'm on your. I think I'm interested in that? Why are there different speeds of rain, levels of rain? You know, hardness of rain, sometimes it bounces 20 minutes after twelve. Thank you, Tom. Phil's in Croydon. Phil, question or answer? Hello, James. Just before I ask him a question. Brilliant first hour, sir? No, it was lovely, wasn't it? Thank you. Very. Well, it was very little to do with me. Just lucky that everyone who was listening was listening. But it was quite nice. Thank you, Phil, I appreciate that. No problem. Right. My question is, it sounds a little bit odd at first, but what do you see when your eyes are closed? How do you mean? Well, if you sit back in your chair, close your eyes. Yeah. You see any shapes drifting across what would ordinarily be your vision? Okay, okay, I see what you mean. I'm glad you do. Yeah, but you mean you don't. So there's quite a lot going on there, isn't there? Because one answer is nothing. You know, just darkness. But you mean you've got the light? Sometimes if you've just looked at a light and you close your eyes, you're seeing that, the ghost of the light, aren't you? So that. Yeah. Although when I tend to go to sleep and obviously the lights are off, it happens all the time to me anyway. So, I mean, I bet from other people who have asked, they're familiar with the sensation. Yes. You mean things just drifting across your line of vision? Except your eyes aren't open. Shapes and colors, they could be straight lines or they could be sort of clouds. So like little explosions happening in the. In the foreground. Blimey, if you take a lot of mushrooms. No, I just. Long pause there, Phil. So what are the shapes and colors and little explosions that you see when your eyes are closed? I like that. I like that a lot. Thank you, Phil. Rain, eyes closed, page turning, moths and tanning. It's all here. Milan is in Paris. Millenn. Question or answer? Answer for the page tanning. Carry on. There's three factors at play. Firstly, if you've got dry skin and you lick your finger, you can slightly wet, you can slightly moisten the skin. And dry skin is worse at gripping stuff than wet skin because it's less flexible in terms of turning a page. Why does a wet thumb stick to a page? It's because water is cohesive, which means it likes to stick to itself. And so the water on your thumb goes onto the page, and the water on the thumb and the page like to stick to each other. So that's what I said about a bit gluey. So that was quite. That was correct, but not very technical. But why is it slippery? Well, it's because the liquid is lubricating between the two surfaces. So if you have your shoe and a floor, they're not good at slipping against each other because they're both quite rough. Yes. Put a bit of water in there. It's good at sliding around. So the water is sliding on the water, really? In a way, sure, yeah. The water molecules are good at moving over each other. Exactly. So they're good at. They're good at bonding and moving over each other. It's one of those slightly counterintuitive physical properties. Is it? Well, it's not. I mean, they're good at bonding, but they're not. They're good enough at bonding to make you be able to pick up a page, but they're not good enough at bonding to keep your weight from falling to the floor. Got it. No, I've got it. I'm picturing it. Qualifications? Masters in chemistry. Well played. Round of applause for millenn, please. That would be nice. There he is. They get it. I get it. 1224 David's in. Lewis. David, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question, please. It's about train drivers sounding their horns or their hooters, or whatever they're called. I can't quite understand why they do it, for a start, because there doesn't seem to be anybody to warn on the line. But if they was, they would. So that's. That's why they have them, I suppose, in the first. Yes, that's true. But sometimes when they're. When they're approaching the local station, they sort of sound the horn. I mean, is that just a sort of a courtesy thing to let people waiting on the platform? I mean, are there rules, do you think? Do you think they've got rules? Good question. But they wave. We wave from. Well, the kids are a bit old now, but we used to wave from a bridge near us and quite often they would. They would toot back. Not always, but quite often. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. We had something similar on a holiday in France, when kids would run out into the garden and take their shorts down and show their naked bums to the train driver and he would hoot at them. And it was one of the. Hey, this is taking. This has taken on an unexpected turn, this conversation mooning french train drivers. Did you write. Did you. Was that the title of your first volume of memoir? Was it? Was it, was it mooning French? A year in Provence. It was next to on the shelf in Waterstones. Mooning french train drivers. Thank you, David. I shall try to find out for you. What are the rules? I will keep it, I think, british. I don't know what the rules are for french. Maybe it's compulsory for french train drivers to moon. To mooning schoolchildren. 25 after twelve is the time Stuart's in Chigwell. Stuart, question or answer? Answer. James, great show as always. You're very kind. What have you got? Common clothes. Moth. What they eat, what they live off. They live off something called creatine. It's in all furs pretty much. And some of our fingernails and hair. Keratin. K E R A. That's it. That's also what a rhinoceros horn is made of I think. Yep. So it's a lot of that along with the humidity in the air. So you find them sometimes more in the bottom of say a boiler cover where there's an old bit of wall carpet because it's a bit more humidity. Yeah, but yeah, that's what they're eating. That's what I said. Well they can survive for a very long time. It'd be a protein, would it? Keratin. It'd be a protein. Yes, that's right. Yeah, it'd be a protein. On the moisture question. My friend Nick texted me on this one and said he thought it had something to do with perspiration and that the moths are actually getting nutrition not from the wool but from the sweat. But it would actually be a little bit of both perhaps. Well both, yes. But if you put your, should we say your sweaty nicely closed back in the wardrobe. Yeah, that would help. The moisture would help. But general moisture in the air due to the humidity will give them the water content they need along with the protein, which is. So when you put them in a kind of ziploc bag you're doing two things. Number one, you're keeping. Well no, you're only really keeping the moth out of there, aren't you? But you're also minimizing the likelihood of moisture being absorbed. Exactly. And if you freeze that bag for a couple of days prior to putting the wardrobe you will kill any eggs or larvae of any common clothes muffin there. Qualifications, Stuart? I've got a pest management level three qualification. A family run pest control company since 1996. That's nice. How's business? Busy with the wasps and hornets at the moment. Excellent. What's the name of the company? I'm guessing this is the second two in two weeks. Now there's a new fellow in Brentwood who's chasing your business. Stuart. I better give you an advice. I don't mind. I'm in Essex, away from Brimwood. He's always. He can keep his work. It's killing, cure. Pest control. Killing, kill and kill and cure. Oh, that's nice. I like that. Great work. Thank you, Stuart. Very. It's a proper science, pest control, you see. Round of applause for Stuart. Thank you. Made my day. Thank you, mate. Luke made mine. Lovely stuff. 1220. I don't know why I'm so fascinated by it. I think it's because we had a lovely bloke, Ricky environ pest control, and his brother Jimmy. I think it's because they come into life when you're at really low ebb, depending on what it is you've got. And they're like magicians, they just, they just fix stuff. It's lovely. Marty's in Belfast. Marty, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. Okay. It's about the world of golf. You see the golfers on the telly. You do, they have a golf glove on, but they only have one. And I'm curious as to why they only have one golf club. Because one of the hands needs to stay stuck to the shaft and trust me, James, both. Both hands need to be on the shaft. No, not. No, but one of them needs to have a bit of give when you. When you play a stroke. Yeah. So the bottom. What do you. Where do you wear the glove on the bottom hand? No, the top. The top hand. So the top hand is. Does that work? Does that work as an answer? Why not? The top hand is. Well, obviously one of them needs a little bit less friction than the other, for some reason. Why. What's grippier, the bear hand or the glove hand? James? I don't. I played golf for 30 years, I couldn't uncomfortably. Wouldn't you ask someone when you were playing golf for 30 years, why do we only wear one glove, lads? But it's one of those things, you know, you put a golf glove on and away you go. But you don't have the golf glove on. Whenever you've got the potter. Right. But you could do an experiment and work it out for yourself. You could literally just do. Take a shot, take it off, take another shot, and then you'd go, oh, that's why. That's why, just as you pull the club out of your partner's head or something like that, it's. I think I wear it on the top one or the bottom one? The top one. The top. Hang on a minute. I'm just gonna. I'm just gonna do a bit of gold right there. If you're right handed, it'll be on your left hand. Vicky murky. So then. I've only got a pen. It's too thin. The shaft is too thin. I need something. I need like a broom or something. James, this doesn't make good radio. No, I'll be the judge of that, mate. I think you will find that the bottom hand, actually, the shaft rotates a bit in the bottom hand in a way that it doesn't in the top hand because of the physics of your two shoulders addressing the ball. One high, one lower. The lower hand needs to. The club needs to move a bit in the lower hand. I think that's the answer. I'm just thinking out loud. I'm not giving myself a round of applause or anything. Marty, I love the hero. Yeah. Previous. Really? You're on. Okay. Why do you only wear one glove when you're playing golf? Zero. 345-606-0973 Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 34 is the time. Why do some parts of our body tan more effectively than others? We've done the moths. We've done the page turning. Why does rain fall? Why does rain. Do be dooby doo. Why does rain fall at different levels of pressure and sort of speed and hittiness? What do you see when you close your eyes? That's not a kind of riddle. It's, what is it? What do we all see? What is it that we're seeing when we have sort of shapes moving across? What would be our field of vision? Are train drivers allowed to toot their horns whenever they want? What is the horn for? I mean, a fast train going through a platform, going through a station where it's not stopping, for example, you probably would want a bit of a horn, wouldn't you, on your way through there? And why do golfers only wear one glove? Which sounds like the opening to a joke, but isn't. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Andy's in Bromley. Andy, question or answer? Oh, hello. It's a question. Carry on. So it's to do with dreams. So a quick 32nd pity party. So just at the start of lockdown, I was diagnosed with cancer. I'm fine now. Oh, well done. It's all behind me. Thank you. But it was pretty traumatic and I was told it was cured and then I was told it come back and it spread and then I had an operation and I had loads of stuff removed to the kidney. But I'm fine now, I'm back to work. But since then. Thank you. Since then I've had long, vivid dreams. Now, now, once you've had that illness, other people, I've told you, it's on your mind all the time, you know, come back. Everyone I dream, I've never been ill and what I want to know is, can we influence our dreams or what do we do? Or what can we do to influence them? If that makes sense, because I must be well, because. So if your illness is on your mind 24 hours a day. Yeah, but hold that thought, because it isn't. Because when I'm dreaming that there's never any mention of it, it's never happened, it's not in my past, it's not in my future, you know, it's not. There's no, there's no talk of it. I'm getting it, of course I do. So you're sort of thinking that you are almost like choosing to be cancer free when you're dreaming. Isn't it more likely that your subconscious goes way, way beyond the diagnosis and you're drawing. I don't know, I've tried, you know, I've. Because literally, you know. Yeah. You wake up in the morning, think, no, I'm fine, I'm fine. No aches, no pain. So lay down. Anybody think, well, what's that trip off to sleep? And it's nothing, you know, it's just not, it's just not there, it's just not. Whereas I would expect it to be the other way around, that you would be haunted by it. Yeah. Your dream. Yeah, yeah. I mean, don't get me wrong, I'm not haunted by it in the daytime, it's a conscious thing and when you're in your dream you're not. But there's loads of stuff in dreams. Sometimes you're about. Sometimes in my dreams I'm eleven or my dad's still alive, there's all sorts of stuff going on, but I tend to find that there'll be something, you know, that's happened in the last day or two that, you know, you think, oh, that's why that happened, you know, because I met that person or I had a conversation. But the answer is going to contain the word subconscious, isn't it? I'm sure it is, yeah. But I don't know, apart from that. Andy, I got nothing. You can't. You can't know all the answers. This is very, very true. I do believe. I do believe that you can influence your dreams deliberately. I do. I do. Not everyone agrees with me on this, but I'm sure that when I want to, I want to go to sleep and have a dream about, you know, playing football. I can do. I certainly could as a kid. But you're on. So. So, I mean, what? I don't know whether we should just say. Why does Andy never have cancer in his dreams? It's got to be relevant to other people. No, I don't think it does. I don't think it does, because I'm more interested in that now. Why does Andy never have cancer in his dreams? A psychologist might know the answer to that. Yeah, just. Sorry, just one more quick, quick question. So just. No, no, it's not a question. It's a request. So, as I said, I had various bits and pieces removed, including the kidney. No, you can't. I need it. Some months back. Some months back, you gave a ball game to a guy and he literally only lost a finger. That's true. Yeah. So if I were lucky enough to win it, can you give it to the next NHS person of Phantom? The next nurse or doctor? Yeah. I don't want it because I listen to your show, listen to your podcast. If I start playing you at the weekends, my wife's gonna get the hump. Don't forget the books. I've got the book as well. There it is. There you go. Well, that's a lovely gesture, but I'm not. It's not gonna. It's not gonna influence my decision in any way, shape or form. But if you do come out on top, then I will absolutely do that. What a lovely, thoughtful thing to say. Thank you, Andy. And of course, I mean, you know, the NHS gonna be in the forefront of your thoughts. If you've just been through that, 1239 is the time. Graham is in Edgeware. Graham. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Okay. It's the answer to the. What's going on? What you doing? Graham? What's going on? I'm in the street. Okay, that's fine. Okay. Right. Yes. It's an answer to the golf question. Go on. It's the reason why you wear the golf club. And by the way, it's on the lower hand. That's what I thought. It's the one other thing. So if you're right handed, you wear it on your left hand. Marty. In Belfast now is going, that's why. That's why I'm so bad at golf. And if you're left handed, you wear it on your right hand. Yeah. So it's the underneath one. And the idea is it's literally, it's just to help with the grip, because if you don't wear a golf club, it's very uncomfortable to grip. Golf club the other. Exactly. We don't wear the golf glove. Rather, if you put your other hand interlocked into the hand, which should have the glove on. Yeah. It was without the glove, it's just very uncomfortable to grip it and you can't hold the club properly. So it's there to help you hold the club and to grip. And it's as simple as that. Yeah. Okay. And you don't. The shaft doesn't move in your hand at all. No, exactly. Whereas if you, if you don't have the glove, your hands, there's going to be gaps between the fingers and the club shaft. So that will give a bit of. Why would they not wear two gloves, then? Because only I need one. Well, yeah, but it would be better because it's a shock, it's a stronger. It's the under, it's the lower hand. It's doing the most of the. It's doing the bulk of the gripping. So you. It's a little. Your left hand is a little lighter on. Exactly. So I'm right handed. So my right hand, which is the one which is over, you position that to. If you want to. Want to do a fade or draw, whatever it is. Yeah. That's the right hands under, not over. Sorry. The right hand goes over, he's over. It's the lower hand. The right hand for right handed people. Sorry, right, sorry. Right. When I said, when I'm talking lower hand, I was talking about the one which is underneath the club. Ah, well, yeah. Okay, lower. It's underneath, you see? Underneath. Yeah. But it's also. The lower hand is one on top. Yeah. So. So the lower hand is the right hand. Yes. So lower as in physically lower. Yeah, that's the right one. It's one that's on top. And. And where's the glove now? I've lost the glove. No, the glow. The glove will be on the left hand still for right handed person. Right. So it's sitting underneath the shaft. No, it's not. Yes, it is. No, it's not. Yes, it is. It sits underneath the shaft. Yes, it does. What the. Hang on the right handed player. What you do is you wear your glove on the left hand, you drop the club shaft onto your left hand, which has got the glove, and then you put your right hand over. Over? Yeah. Over it? Yeah. It's not. But they're both under it. No, no, they're not both over. No, they are. They're both. Otherwise, how can you both thumbs be pointing down the shaft together? Because they are. They're both. They do the one under the other. It's like a hand. It's under the hand. It's not under the club. They're both under the club. But one hand is under the other hand. Yes. Oh, fair. Why didn't you say that, Graham? So you're. So it's like your right hand. Your right hand thumb is over. Your left hand thumb. Yes, I know. That's what I said. You chose the wrong words. You chose. There is too many unders and overs. It's like the bloody wombles. You didn't understand the words I was choosing. Well, that's your fault. You used all the right words, Graham, but not necessarily in the room. Give them a round of applause. Well played, Graham. Thank you very much. Lovely stuff we've got there in the end. Imagine if that's the first time you've ever tuned into LBC. Oh, dear. Ross is in Guilford. Russ, question or answer? It's a answer. Carry on, Russ. Why you blow your horn? Are you a train driver? I am a train driver, yeah. Carry on. Okay. The reason for. The reason why we blow the horn is because there's a massive rule book, and that rule book's been going, I don't know, 150 years, something like that. So all these things get put in. And so when he's hearing the horn, potentially he's hearing someone, a train coming up to what's known, like a foot crossing. So you have to blow your horn, then? Yeah. And also, other times you'll have what's known as the orange army. So there's all these sort of engineers, technicians, pua work. Yeah. On the tracks. So you've got to get them out the way, basically. You blow them and then they acknowledge it. Stand aside. That's why we do it, to keep them protected. Yes. You hope so, yes. And as you say, through the platform at high speed. And are you allowed to do it to delight local children as well? We do like doing it, but obviously, if you live by the line, some people complain, so they don't really like us doing it. But you're not. It's not against any rules or laws? No. So you can. You can. You can toot your horn whenever you want, but. But discretion ensures that you don't toot it too liberally. Yeah, basically, yeah. I mean, you can. You can toot your horn between six of them, all in the midnight. But then outside of those times, if you're working and you have a reason to blow your horn, you can blow it as and when you feel necessary. Okay. Okay. Oh, that's a perfect answer. And we already know what your qualifications are. How big is the rule book? Do you all have one in the cab or do you all have one by the bed at home? It's great reading at bedtime. It's actually really big. Breaks down, it's different sections. It's relevant to all of us, like the signalers. But there's only one horn. It's not. There's not a language of horn. Oh, yeah, there's two horns. You've got a low horn, a higher tone horn, and some trains even have, like, a depot horn, which is like a little whistle. But do they convey different messages to others? Yes, because sometimes you might. You might get a blow. Yeah. So you get one of them, which is awarded maybe to people on the platform to sort of stand back. You might get a low tone horn if you're going over a foot crossing or. Yeah, yeah. Loads of high tones. Yeah. Say, for example, there's, I don't know, your trains running away or something. It's got a mind of its own. Yeah. I don't know, the brakes have gone or something like that. So it's to warn people to get out of the way. Yeah. Let's hope you never have to do that, Ross. I hope not. Seriously, that's a superb. One of my favorite answers that. Have a round of applause, Ross. Thank you. You live and learn, don't you? So. Yeah. And now you come to mention it, actually, if we lived a bit nearer to the bridge where the train used to respond to my daughter's waves, about one in three, maybe it would be, I think. No, I'd say two. Two out of the bit. I can't even remember. Then I may be a little less charmed by it. It's 1246 mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 1249 is the time. So things that still need answers. Why do we tan differently in different parts of the body? Why does rain come down at different rates? What do we see when our eyes are closed? And why does Andy never, ever, ever have cancer in his dreams? He thankfully doesn't have cancer outside his dreams anymore, but he thinks about it a lot and yet when he's unconscious, it's never. Well, you get it. Owens in Cambridge. Owen, question or answer? Answer, James. But I'm afraid I might have missed it. It was about the golf club. I listened to the chat talking to stewards inquiry because someone's just pointed out. I didn't ask Graham what his qualifications were, so I may have missed a trick there. Owen, are you challenging his answer? Oh, I'm afraid I am, James. Gosh. Go on, then. Okay, so people wear golf clubs at the change of direction, right or left handed. When they swing the club back at some point, the club gets upside down. That's when it's at its lightest point. And at the change of direction, it's at his heaviest point. And what he tries to do, it tries to force the hand open. Yes. And succeeds in a lot of beginners, so they get calluses and blisters quite badly. So the glove offers them protection against that. And then in good players, it offers adhesion between the grip and the palm. I think he said the second way. That's why golfers wear gloves. Didn't he say the second? Wear gloves? What? Some people don't wear gloves because they've got used to it, calluses and they built up. So what was Graham wrong about? Because I don't see that. No idea, James? No, but how was he wrong? How was he wrong? The main point is that, is that the change of direction, the club's at his heaviest and it forces the hands open. Oh, I see. So. So the answer is. Is grip. But you're giving us the physics. Exactly right. Because physics is what the goal swing is all about. Of course it is. Qualifications go. Retired goal professional. Well played. Round of applause for very exciting news for you, Owen. My friend Alistair has given me his old set of clubs and I am, once this bloody book's out the way I am, I am taking it up. Good man. Right or left handed? Right handed. Good man for you. Good luck with that one. I could play a bit as a kid. I was actually all right at golf. But, you know, the question always is if you were playing tennis, James, out. What would be a long rally for you across the net? Four times? Five times? Oh, no. 10? 20? 30? I'm quite good at tennis. You'll pick up golf pretty quickly. Yeah, I think I will. I was alright, I tell you. My school was so posh. Oh, and it had an 18 hole golf course. Your house was. No, my school. Oh, your school. My school. Soaposh had an 18 hole also had one of the best magic mushroom crops in the whole of Yorkshire, apparently, but I don't know anything about it. Oh, my school was so bad, we had prison cells. It's off. He's off. Thank you, Owen. Ben's in shepherd's bush. Ben, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. Yes, please. Well, the answer to the colors we see, the lights we see when our eyes are closed, I believe they are called phosphines. Phosphines. And they are little electrical charges that are generated kind of within the, I think, retina, mainly. And the condition is known more broadly as phototopsia. There you go. So what exactly is a phosphine? Well, no, this is where my knowledge falls a little bit short. Well, I had cause to look it up recently and, well, as I was saying to your colleague, I actually see these when my eyes are open as well. Like floaters. Different from floaters? Yeah, different from floaters. It's more like kind of fizzing. Gentle, very gentle, diffuse fireworks display. Okay. Wow. So you want. You were worried something might be wrong and you looked it up and it's rare but normal. It's rare but normal, yeah. I mean, I've known. I've had this for years with my condition and actually looked up recently, because I've been kind of writing about my condition and thought, I better try and learn something, find out what it is. I think. Well, allow me to step in, Ben. I think, off the top of my head, I think that phosphines are like random electrical signals from the neurons in the occipital lobe at the very back of the brain, which is responsible for vision. I think it could be spot on there, James. You can, of course, induce it mechanically by rubbing your eyes, can't you? You can indeed, yes. And you get quite a vivid firework display, then. A beautiful answer. Qualifications? You've kind of told us, I think. Yeah, well, I have an eye condition from a condition called Stevens Johnson syndrome. So I. Researching that. Yeah, basically. Round of applause for you, then. Look at that. Thank you, Ben. Great mystery out of it. I'm learning so much. Also, a few of you have picked up on the absolute jamboree of doubler entendres that have been unfolding on the program. All entirely deliberate, I can assure you. Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer to your question about rainfall. Thank you. So, in my environment agency world, we talk endlessly about event duration and intensity. It's one of the things that kind of literally keeps us up at night sometimes. So the balance of this is held in sort of the thermodynamic properties of. You've mentioned temperature and humidity and pressure. Yes. Now, you'll be aware that in the summer, you tend to get high intensity rainfall events. They tend to be because you get a lot of direct heating. And heating basically makes the air parcels rise quickly, because obviously, air becomes less dense when it's warmer, and then it begins to rise. And the more quickly the air rises, the more quick that air mass then becomes unstable. You probably also heard me say on calls up to you in the past that for every one degree of temperature increase, and obviously, with climate change now being crucial to this, the atmosphere can hold 7% more water vapor, which is why we're going to see more intense rainfall events as we go through this century. Now, in our winter rainfall, you get a cooler atmosphere. Cooler atmospheres tend to bring more frontal rain, but you get more longer duration rainfall over a period of time where you don't get quite the same intensity, you don't get the same amounts of rainfall in a particular event, and the duration of that event tends to be a lot more extended, sometimes twelve to 24 hours in the summer. That instability and that quick rising of air brings that downpour activity. That's why, actually, you get a lot more convective summer thunderstorm activity in the tropics than you do in the temperate regions. It's also the reason why Antarctica is actually what's called a desert. It's a wet desert, but essentially because it's well known. So it's a dry atmosphere, but because obviously we've had a lot of snowfall over centuries and most of it doesn't actually melt. No, it just stays there. But actually, Antarctica is very dry because it's frozen. And obviously you don't have that humidity. That's. I think you've covered it. I think you've covered it, yeah. But I love it. Qualifications. Which I am a master's in climate change. I'm one of your friendly flood warning duty officers. There we go. I mean, you wouldn't want an unfriendly flood warning duty officer. Wouldn't? Of course not. You wouldn't trust them. Round of applause. Another round of applause for Andy, please. Thank you. And finally, Paul in Stoke. Question or answer, Paul? Answer. Carry on. It's about tanning. Yeah, you haven't got long. Sheila's here. She's limbering up. Tanning requires. Relies on three things, which is levels of melanin, skin tone, and the thickness of the skin. Some areas will tang quicker if they are lighter, if they are thinner, like your neck, because it moves a lot and levels. Original skin tone levels of melanin, which are variable, and thickness of skin. So the legs will go. Why did her tummy tan so quickly, then? Because the skin's quite thick. I don't want to be ungallant. Probably because it's out more. But it's not, though, is it? Legs and tummy are going to be out equally on holiday. You're wearing a bathing suit and it will be if you're around a pool on the beach. But it went quickly, though. If you're wearing a bikini, her tummy's tanning. She's obviously wearing a bikini and the legs are not tanning as quickly as the tummy. Why would the tummy go? I think because the skin's. Because there's thicker skin there. The bone is miles away from the tummy. That's not quite relevant, is it? What are your qualifications? I have primary adrenal insufficiency or Addison's disease, which affects my, of course, is all adrenal and melanin levels. That'll do. Round of applause for Paul. Who's the winner? I've no idea. Could you pick one? Can anyone else pick one? I like the guy that got you to stand up and pretend to play golf. That was Graham. I like that as well. Okay, it's Graham, then. Well played, Graham. He sounded quite new to the show. He might not even know what the bit board game is. He might not. He's just gonna anyway scare. All right, you're on. That's it from me. Rewind it. All in that business shows mystery hour, all the biggest podcasts saying all the right words, but not necessarily in the right order. Rewind live radio on global player. You can download it for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom sawbrick with you at four. Sheila Fogarty with you now.