James O'Brien's Mystery Hour - 7 Sep 17

Six minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we will dive imminently into the weekly voyage into the unknown. That brings you the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio. It is, if you're not familiar with the feature, the radio equivalent of those newspaper and magazine features where you can write in with a question. And then about six months later, if you're lucky, you might get an answer. Here. Satisfaction is immediately instant gratification. It's practically our middle name. All you need to do is work out what the mystery is. Bring it in, grab your place on the board, pose the question, wait for your answer. We take whys, whens, wherefores withers, whences. You think of an interrogative pronoun. This is its natural home, and if you hear somebody ask a question to which you do know the answer, you ring in. With that answer, you are not allowed to look anything up. There are only two rules, actually, three rules. I always forget the third rule. I'll build a bit of tension now as the music reaches a crescendo. No googling. You are not allowed to look anything up at all. Which we fell foul of last week. My fault entirely. But obviously you can look stuff up. It kind of makes a mockery of the whole fun that we have together. So don't do that. Don't be boring. That's a little hard to police. Very, very rarely does anybody think they are boring. In fact, the more boring you are, the less likely it is that you ever think you are boring. We'll be the judge of that. As a general rule, if you can't really imagine anybody else being interested in the answer to the question that you want to ask, it's probably boring. And similarly, if it involves motoring, it's probably boring. Repetition, that's slightly more our responsibility, given that if you ask a question that we did last week, one of us should at least be able to remember that we did it last week. You can get a rough guide by going online to LBC dot co dot UK and having a look at the rather fun and frolicsome mystery hour archive. It's actually not a bad way to while away an hour or two at the best of times, but obviously it also lets you see whether the question you've got bubbling under one that we've actually addressed before. Otherwise you will only hear me say the number when I have a phone line free zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. It's chocka at the moment. You won't get through for a couple of minutes, but Caroline and Jacob will be sorting a lot of wheat and chaff, or chaff from wheat, because through no fault, there are a lot of people ring in at the top of the hour with really rubbish questions or ones that we've dealt with on a hundred separate occasions. I don't want to sound ungrateful, you know, I'd rather too many people rang in than none. But that is why when. When you hear me say the number, the best way to perhaps get ahead of the pack is through judicious use of redial. I think that's pretty much it. Should we crack on? Is there anything else I missed? Anything, Axel, do you think? I mean, obviously the highest accolade you can receive at any point on this program for the entire 15 hours of the week is a Ray Liotta, an accurate reward reserved for people whose qualifications, whose suitability to contribute to whatever is under discussion, almost. Almost beggars belief. It'd be like if we're talking about space exploration and Buzz Aldrin rings in, that's a rally to moment. If we're talking about mafia movies or baseball movies and Ray Liotta rings in, that's a Ray Liotta moment. Otherwise, the highest accolade available for people answering questions today is a mystery hour. Round of applause and I think I'll just crack on. I'm a bit insecure because last week I forgot about the no googling rule and I ended up, you know, looking like a bit of a lemon towards the end of an hour. And nobody likes looking like a lemon. Nikki's in Cardiff. Nicky, question or answer? Carry on. My two year old niece wants to know. I have a lovely guide dog. Two lovely guide dogs. One's called James. Oh, lovely. Yes. And when he's awake, his nose is wet. Yes. But when he's asleep, his nose is dry. I wondered why and I was like, I have no idea. So it's not. It's a question of. It's a 24 hours question, this. It's not a question about why a dog's nose is wet, it's a question about why it's wet during the day and dry during the night. Yeah. Or, you know, I mean, like, if they're just having a little, you know, little. Sorry. That's James shaking. That's right. You know, then obviously he's awake now, so his nose is going to be dry and wet, and then when they're asleep, it's dry. And I don't understand why. And it's the same with all dogs because I've kind of, you know, I've had a sore titter steal. And it's the same, but they're all sorts. So do you go around sort of surreptitiously feeling dogs noses quite a lot? Only my own dogs or very close friends. They're very wise. You can't be sort of doing it willy nilly. You could get into all sorts of bother. And it's definitely true because I've never. I've got a dog. I've got nearly said I've never had a dog. I've got a flipping dog. I've got a little dog, but I've never felt the need. And she obviously has a wet nose during most of the time I've spent with her, but I've never felt the need to go and check her nose while she's. While she's having a snooze. Yeah. I mean, it's only sort of like I'm totally blind sometimes. I'm kind of looking to see where James is and I'll sort of, you know, brush against his nose. And I. Yeah. And then I couldn't ask. Hannah wanted to know and I said, I don't know if I'll ring. The man will know. Well, I don't know, but I know a man who might. Or rather, I don't. But hopefully he or she will be listening. Shall we. Shall we find out? Thanks, James. Very welcome. Thank you. And give my love to James. Give him a big, big cuddle from me. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Why do dogs noses dry in the night? And why are they wet in the day and dry in the night? Or rather, you know, when they're awake and asleep? I don't think they're looking at the clock. They're judging it by whether or not they are sleeping, aren't they? Eleven minutes after twelve. You know the answer to that. Give me a ring. Who would get a Ray Liotta for that, for example, just in case you're unclear on how high the bar is set on that particular accolade. Probably someone like Barbara Woodhouse, if she was still alive, like the most famous dog expert in the country, might get a Ray Liotta or. I don't know. You couldn't actually get a phone call off an actual dog, could you? So this probably wasn't the best example with which to explore the qualifications for the radiota. Very, very occasionally I wish this wasn't live. Ellie's. In Southgate. Ellie, question or answer? Question, please carry on. I want to know where the phrase like the big cheese comes from. Like the main person in the company is. What's called the big cheese. My office. Because I was wondering it the other day and none of us know. So they were like, oh, you should bring mystery hour. I like the idea that mystery hour is increasingly seen up and down the country as the final court of adjudication on matters. On matters mysterious. I got half an answer to this from memory, but not a whole answer. It started with the cheese, right? What's happening? What's going on? Ellie? Sorry, I'm at work. Do they know you're on the phone? Yeah. Are you sure? I don't want you to get into trouble. No, I'm fine. Was that the big cheese in the background? Bloviating. I think it was fine. Okay. Okay. Well, I tell you very briefly, the cheese was. It just meant quality. So it used to mean the best. That's the cheese that's good in the way that we'd say that's the dog's what sits these days. But where the big, the big cheese for the boss comes from, I do not know. So I'll put that on the list for you. Thanks. And can I give a quick shout out? I think you better now. Well, my good friend David actually introduced me to lBci, so I'd like to say thank. Thank you. So would I. Thank you. David, can I ask a quick personal question? She's getting a bit gone really, really quickly on the first person. Why do you ask for a question or answer where they can only ask a question? Are you only allowed one question, Ellie? No, sorry about that. It's 30 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour on LBC. Why are dogs noses wet during the day and dry during the night? And what's the origin of the phrase big cheese in reference to a boss? Jacqueline is in says here Cobhama. But I'm going to go out on a limb and think that that means Cobham. What would you question or answer exactly? You're right, it is common. The question is yes. When my daughter and I were driving through Richmond park last week, we saw all the stag. Isn't it incredible? Isn't it absolutely incredible. You get so close to them as well. So close and they don't move. Stopped along with all the other travelers. Drivers took pictures. They're so majestic. Anyway, we then started talking about the fact that they culverted in Richmond park twice a year. Yes. And so my daughter said, well, how do they cull? I said, oh, well, you know, they shoot them, or they stun them, or they. Whatever they do. Yeah, but which one pot do they do? I know this. I know this. Yeah. I do actually know. This is one of my favorite places, Richmond park. Yeah, they do. They shut the park and they send in marksman. Is that what they do? I wasn't sure, but not very touchy feely. It's not very bambi friendly, is it? No, but they numbers write down, don't they? They can only have something like 600. But what I was going to say was that on the Richmond park official site, they get in mass detail about. They have to be culled. Yes. And it's all politically very, very correct, but it refuses to tell you how they told them. And I'm sure you're right. I'm sure I've been told by a caller, I'm someone who's done it. I've had it before. Okay, maybe not in misjudgment, in the context of blood sports or when we've been talking about something. People have licenses to do this sort of thing. If I'm wrong about this, I'll buy you a kilo of venison. Thank you. Well, I still want to know why the website doesn't put anything. Well, you're only allowed one question. What is it today? What is it with everyone's cos throwing in a supplementary? Probably because they don't want to get bombarded by the usual. I say nut jobs, because that's not offensive to, you know, kind of extremist vegetarians. 1215 is the time. Round of applause for me. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's 1215. It is 90 minutes after twelve. We would like to know the origin of the phrase big cheese and why dogs noses are wet during the day and dry during the night. To be honest, human mouths are as well, a couple of you have pointed out, aren't they? It'd be something to do with. Well, something to do with something. I'm fairly confident of that. Steven's on the Isle of Wight. Question or answer, Stephen? Question. Are you wearing trousers? I am indeed, yeah. Okay. I gather that's very important on the Isle of wight at the moment. Only if they're red Carrie. Good God, no. Carry on. What's your question? Okay, with batteries, they have a positive and a negative to them. They do. And usually when you put them in a controller, they go positive one. Then the next one goes negative. What? But I have found a controller where they have both positive. Why is it. What? So, you know when you have a remote control. Yeah. One goes one way up and the next one go the other way up. Yeah. And most of your controllers, that will be the same way? Yeah, I have found one where they both go the same way up. I've seen that before. Okay, but why? Oh, you've put me in a really difficult position, Stephen. Okay, you remember. You remember when I said, don't ring in if you don't think anyone else is going to be interested in the answer to the question that you want to ask? I did indeed, yes. Whence did you derive your optimism that you didn't fall into that category? Well, maybe Professor Howe may have an answer for us. Yeah, but that, again, much as I love Professor Howe, that's not necessarily evidence that anybody else is going to. So you found a remote control in which you can insert batteries that are not, you know, ones the right way, one's upright and one's upside down, so to speak. And you want to know why. Why you found it or why they're not normally like that? Or why are they not normally like that? All right, mate. I accept my cautious apologies if it turns out that people are fascinated to know the answer to this question, but I will put it on the list because you seem like such a nice fellow and I appreciate there's not an awful lot to do on the Isle of Wight when it's raining. Correct. Carry on. Except don't go to that place with the chairlift. You know what I mean? I do. Absolutely terrifying. I've been on some of the most allegedly terrifying roller coasters in the world, but nothing brought me closer to losing it than just drifting down that cliffside in one of those victorian style chairlifts. Just thought I'd share that because I was a little bit rude to Stephen and I wanted to reestablish a bit of what the kids call pants. 21 minutes after twelve, Dell's in Southend on sea. Dell, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Del, why is Wales next to the sea such a good place to go to? Who says it is? I'm going there tomorrow. Yeah, simply on your recommendation. Oh, me. I said it is. Well, you're in south End. I don't. Why are you going to? Well, what's the point? You live at the seaside. It's my wife. It's my wife's birthday on Saturday and I booked a beach hut at Wells next to the sea. She doesn't know. And it's okay, she won't hear this because she can't stand you. Oh, that's a relief. I was going to say she's clearly got him impeccable taste in men. But then that kind of leaves one of us. That leaves one of us looking silly. I. Well, I don't know if she can't stand me. I don't know if I want to help her. Have a nice weekend now. Well you must do because she's one of those people that's very posh. She calls the living room allowance and she gets out the bath when she needs to go to the loo. I see what you mean. All right, well I like it because it's old fashioned seaside and I suspect she will too. It's a bit like going back in time and if you're lucky enough to have one of the beach huts then you'll have tea making facilities and what have you. But the town itself, it just reminds me of my childhood is the reason why I really like it. And it's middle class families. Actually all families these days tend to go to Majorca, don't they? Or magaluf or something like that. And it makes me think of my mum and dad and my little sister. And you buy ice cream in the old fashioned way. It's got penny arcades where you put money in. The arcades are pushed but the food's really good. There's two fish and chip shops on the front that are exceptional. One will allow you to bring your dog in as long as you sit in the two tables nearest to the door. The pub on the corner is, I think it's called the red light. I could, I could go on Del, but really it's just like proper old fashioned british seaside. Well, I'll tell you what, James, parking's a nightmare though, mate. Be careful. Well, yeah, maybe send me an email. I kind of did. You taking some of the gloss off this by revealing your wife's antipathy towards me? Well, I'll tell her all about this. She won't hear it but I will tell her about it. All right. Well no, quickly. Need to say, James, I listen to you when I'm on dialysis of a morning. Oh, blind. She's not always good for my blood pressure. That's covering a lot of ground though. I wish you well. I hope you have a fantastic time. And take care of yourself, my friend. I mean that most sincerely. Look after yourself and you will have a good time. 24 minutes after twelve is the time I get a round of applause for that. I suppose I'll take it where I can. Rod's in porth leven. Rod. Question or answer? Good afternoon. Answer to the dog's nose question. Carry on. Dogs don't sweat. They don't have sweat glands in their skin, so they call themselves by planting. And the breathing system that has the blood in the nose through evaporation, cooling. Therefore, during the day, when the dog's hot and active, there's a lot of cooling going on around the nose area. The nose will be cold and wet, though I'm presuming that at night, if it's less active, then there's going to be less activity, therefore, that cooling effect to be reduced, therefore. So as if it was a hot night or if the dog was kind of active and moving around, then it would be. The nose would be wet a bit. Good. Very strong answer. Very, very strong answer. Question or answer? I mean, qualifications biology teacher and. Yeah, that will do. You don't need anything more than that, mate. It's more than enough to get you this on the curriculum, is it? Dog's noses, GCSE curriculum. Cooling by evaporation and sweating is. And of course, osmosis. But I couldn't get osmosis in there. So just what? He's got one job, mate. One. Is it actually. Does it involve? It actually, actually involved. Say it again. See if it's working now. It doesn't involve osmosis evaporation. Oh, well, don't then. That's why it didn't go off. My apologies, Axel. He wasn't using the word correctly, which is why the software didn't react as one would expect it to in ordinary circumstances. You don't get it just for using the word. You get it for using the word correctly and you as a teacher, frankly, should know better. But you can have a round of applause nonetheless. Thanks, Rod. Remote controls. It's got to be one of the most boring questions ever, hasn't it? Why do some remote controls allow you to put batteries in the right way up? Zero. 345-606-0973 origin of the phrase big. No. Big nose. Big cheese. Terry's in Croydon. Terry, question or answer? Answer. Come on then, Terry. Big cheese. Not very. Not very exciting. Elizabeth. The first. No. Cranked up the number of high days and holy days. Yeah. In order to get more sailors. Right. So on holidays you could only eat fish or cheese, which they call white meat, apparently, at the time. And so just if you are rich, a lot of cheese and, you know, there's, you know, the big cheese, you've got the. You've got the money. That's it. Qualifications. I was looking up why you have mint sauce with lamb. Oh, yeah. And it was a part of that explanation. It. And that. That comes from before. But no one's asked that question, so I can't give you the answer. I know you can. I really want to know now, why do we have mint sauce with lamb? Right. That was the queen before Queen Mary. You know, the one before Elizabeth. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Bloody man. People were eating meat, not meat. People were eating meat on high days. Right. And she made it an offense unless you ate them with bitter herbs. Is that right? Of all is the mint. That's absolutely fascinating. She was the catholic one and then Elizabeth was. I think Elizabeth was more likely to find you if you broke those. She burned a few people as well. But anyway, let's not spoil a fun conversation by remembering the days when we used to burn each other at the state for being the wrong flavor of the same religion. Tyrique. Round of applause. I thought I was going to be quite skeptical about your big cheese answer. I wasn't very impressed with it, but oddly, the qualifications have backed it up and just pushed you over the line. Good man. Steve is in Hounslow. Steve, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on, Steve. Brian, what it is, is how comes I can cook on a cooker on a naked flame, but the same gas that goes into a boiler gets to be carbon monoxide after it's been used. So what's the difference? Do you get what I mean? Well, I mean, it's not. It's not really a question of whether I get it or not. It's a question again of whether or not anyone else is going to be interested in the answer. Well, think about it. We've got a new boy on the phone today. Is he going to get the blame for all of this? Caroline, when we finish. This is Jacob. This is poor, mate. I mean, you know what? The face. The busiest switchboard in the of the week for the whole, you know, LBC. But Steve, I'm sorry, I'm talking as if you're not here. Do you genuinely think anyone else is going to be interested in your answer to this question about it all? I am. Well, how come you can cook on a cooker on an acid flame? Yeah, right, but yeah, the same gas that feeds your cooker, feeds your boiler, but yet that gas, if it's not protected, comes out as carbon monoxide. So how come you're not very carbon monoxide of a cooker. Well, you do, but it dissipates. It dissipates, yeah. Just, I mean, the boiler is burning gas for hours and hours and hours on end, so it needs measures in place to. It needs an exhaust. It needs an exhaust. Whereas most of us don't employ our gas cookers in a. In a. In a small enclosed space. And that will be the same thing for chefs in hotels and stuff that's cooking for hours and hours and hours. Yeah. No, I mean, they're gonna. Why do you think they have massive ventilation shafts in big industrial kitchens, mate. All right, all right. Well, it was a question to me, but, hey, well, now I feel bad. Now I feel bad because you feel a little bit affronted. You've paid me the compliment of calling into the program, and let's not be about the bush. Steve, I've been quite rude to you. It gives me. Well, it's just about the time, I think. Do you know what usually happens when I sort of. When I'm rude like this? Someone will ring in in ten minutes time and it'll turn out, you're a genius. And I'm an absolute proof. I mean, it was battling me for years. I was thinking, well, how come I can do that? But, yeah, I can't do it up a boiler. I mean, boilers don't have to be on for hours and hours, but you still get carbon monoxide. Yeah, but you wouldn't get caught. You wouldn't have a carbon monoxide problem with a boiler if you only had it on for half an hour a day. It's usually when it happens overnight or when you know. And to be fair, it's a leak is what causes the problems because it's got the exhaust. So something's gone wrong with the way that it's made. But a cooker. A cooker doesn't need an exhaust because it's in a big room and the room is usually very, very well ventilated. But you're right, it's the same gas that's being burned, but in very different contexts and environments. Right, okay, makes sense. All right, mate. Sorry about that. Sorry. Sorry for being a little cut, mate. All right, are we cool, Steve? I'll get you next time. All right, we're cool. Round of applause for me, then. It's half up. It is 1236. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. There's quite a kerfuffle broken out on social media about how interesting the question about batteries in a remote control was. But nothing's going to sway me. If I have to coin the phrase, how interesting a question about which way up the batteries in a remote control go, then I win. It's dull, it's really, really boring, but out of the goodness of my heart, I put it on the board. The question is why in some, as a kid, you always had to put one with the nipple going up and one with the nipple going down. Yeah. They always had to be different ways around. And you can sometimes encounter battery powered appliances in which you put them all nipple up or all nipple down. And call wants to know why. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can answer that. Remember, you're not allowed to look anything up. And if you have a question of your own, then, similarly speaking, I think that's the only one I haven't dealt with myself, apart from the wet noses. But we had a biology teacher to do that for us. Nigel is in Wallingford. Question or answer, Nigel, answer. Go on, then. Right, yeah. I'm a wildlife manager, look after five deer parks, and I also know the London park keepers, Richmond Bushy and Hampton Court, very well. So just about. You've mentioned about Richmond. How do they. Coal deer, basically, in parks? Yes, probably. Why do they cold here? But you do. I know the what. I've got the what. I've already had that round of applause, but I'll give you one. Unless you're going to tell me that I was wrong. But the why would be interesting as well. So do both. Yeah. Why? I mean, basically, this time we're taking out young bucks and young nobbers if you've got too many young waters. I know what a young buck is. Young nobbers are basically yearling. You know, yearling stacks or crickets. No. Yep. Or prickets. Knobbers and prickett. You're. You're yanking my chain. They're not called nobbers and prickets. You're just trying to get me to say rude words on the radio. No, we use sorrel for two year old family. So basically, too many bucks this time of year before the rap, you just get, you know, get spiking by, you know, the big stag from the big buck. All spike. In fact, we shot a knobber last week where his dad had put a sort of spike through the side of his ribs. Oh, no. Because they're competing for mates and it doesn't really matter if you're family. It's not like the east end in the olden days. That's it. The parks are in restricted areas. So Richmond or Bushey? They're in a really restricted area. There's a lot of deer parks around the country. All the guys like yourself that manage deer parks. We went to fee. We look after our deer. We know our deer. But one of the jobs we have to do is cull them. They're done very professionally. I know the London keepers very well and they're really professional, lad. It's done with a lot of safety, with very good quality equipment and all that lovely venison. It's the most humane way you can do it and they all end up. You're preaching to the choir on this one. They send in marksman at nighttime. Usually they're actually. The park keeps it themselves. I know them quite well. Right. You're on very early hours. I would if I. Weirdly, you would normally have got a ray Liotta, which is quite a high accolade. But given that I've already answered this question correctly, you've just provided us with a lot of extraneous and very useful information. I can't really give you a rayleighota, but I can definitely give you a round of applause. Thank you, James. Thank you. Nigel. What's your favourite deer park? I think Woburn's amazing. I know Dan, who's the chairman of the British Deer Farm Park association. That's after Woburn. It's amazing. 16 deer species in there. So it's well worth a visit. But I think Richmond is astounding. I think Richmond and the London park right in your central city, you can visit it and it's just. I think Bushy Park's underrated, actually. Bushy to keep it at. By the way, the newly retired people, I'm John Bartram at Richmond park. Got a new book out about parkour at Richmond, so I've not read it yet, but apparently it's a very good read. That's brilliant. If you want to find out about Richmond Deer park, there's a new book out by John Bartram. You are a top lad, Nigel, because you've come on there, you've done favors for loads of other people. I really rate that. We'll dig out the title of that. What's the book called again? The author is actually John Bartram and he's the tide deer keeper there. That's brilliant. I should buy that for my wife. I should buy that for my wife. She loves Richmond Deer. But we'll all read it. But thank you. And he got a round of applause, didn't he? I think that right there is why I love mystery out. I'm happy to wade through questions about remote controls and gas boilers, because every now and then you just hit something like that. And it wasn't even a question that needed answering. We'd already answered it. If only I hadn't. If only I kept my mouth shut and I could have given him a radio to. How many times do you come across a deer keeper? Wildlife manager, Ivan is in Sutton. Ivan, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on, Ivan. It's about the torch. Torch factories. Oh, sorry about the fact. Yeah, well, I found it quite a fascinating quest. Did you really? What do you do for a living? I'm an electrician. Oh, well, yeah, there you go. Carry on what it is. Right. If you batteries could either be put in. Put in series or in parallel. Yeah, put them in series. Like. Like a long, skinny torch. Yeah. The voltages all add up. So four one and a half volt batteries will come to see, right? Yeah. If you do it like the guy rang up with a remote control and they're all facing the same way, they're in parallel, so you only get one half volts from each battery, but you get more power because you got more batteries. Quite simple, really. So it'll just. It will just last for a lot. It won't last longer. You just. So you don't need as much power for a remote because it's quite a small charge. Well, I'm not sure how much power you need for remote. It's probably got stretch quite a long distance. Well, it depends. But when. When they're designed to have the batteries parallel to each other, then it is so that you get a longer period of electricity, but with a smaller charge. Because if they were one on top of each other. What about if one was the right way up? One was nipple up and one was nipple down. Is that parallel or series? That'd be series, won't it? Because it's like a round circuit. Yeah, it was when the nipple up, it was down. That's serious. Yeah, that's series. When all the nipples go in the same place, that's parallel. Yeah. And it gives you the same voltage, but right before you. I don't know what's happened to you, sound like you're drowning. Give them a round of applause. Quick. Nipple up, nipple down. Knobbers and crickets. It's all happening on the show today. Dan is in Houston. Dan, question or answer? Hey, question. Carry on. Yeah, it's about passport control. Oh, yes. Yeah. I'm just wondering in the day and age of oyster cards and fast transactions. I just became interested in what it is that passport control look at on their screens. It seems to take ten to 20 seconds. It's probably just to see whether or not there's anything attached to your name and passport number, your identity, you know, to see whether you've got a history of immigration offences or whether you've done anything dodgy. Whether the authorities are looking for you, isn't it, that have just come up on a. On a computer screen. So. So that'd just be a kind of itemized list of dodgy things attached to your name, which everybody around the world, if you're a person of interest. Yeah, I guess so. I mean, I'm not going to give myself a round of applause on this because I'm speculating, but I also have to ask, why? What are you planning? What have you got? What's on the agenda? Nothing. Didn't sound very guilty at all. Down here. You might as well have whistled, mate. Seriously. What? Don't do it. Think of your family. Think of your family. Don't do it. No, don't do it. Think of your family. I know times are hard, but there's no excuse for you. I am. And what I'm planning, really, for clean people, even for clean people, it takes ten to 15 seconds. How do you know you're clean? How do you know you're clean? Unless they've checked? Oh, we're all clean, aren't we, James? No. Lots of people have got. Have got sort of criminal records and items of interest. You might be banned from the country. You might. I imagine that. But I'll find out from a customs officer who, as we learned yesterday, won't be currently boasting any stubble or bum fluff because you're not allowed stubble or bum fluff. If you're an immigration officer, you're only allowed a full beard or a clean shaven face. Seriously, the information, the information that you gather from listening to this program, 1244 is the time. Dan, stay where you are. Lionel is in Edmonton. Hello, Lionel. I can't believe the question that you're about to. Oh, no, hang on. It's not quite the question. I thought it was. Go on, what is it? Why is there a horse? You always got to mount the horse on the left hand side. I've done extensive research. I've watched western upon western. They always walk around the horse and mount on the left, unless. Unless they're left footed, in which case they'll mount on the right. Mate, it's just about the leg that you swing. We can't all be left legged, can we? But almost everybody is right footed. What's the percentage? Roughly 10%, is it? Or something like that. But that's the bottom line. It's about what your strongest leg is for the hoyk and the jump. No, I can't buy that. It's not. It's not for sale, my friend. That's the reason why. Okay, you come up with a better reason then. I can't think of one. Because I'm just giving you one. That's why you can't come up with a better reason than the best reason. The only reason. The reason. Well, the only thing I can think of is the horse nose. Left from right. Yeah, we see now sounding silly. So you're proving that I'm right. Even though I was prepared to allow a degree of skepticism to creep into your response, I'm now not. I'm taking the round of applause. That's why we mount the way that you describe. No, James, you can't all be the same because you actually walk. Computer says no. It's 12. 12 49 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What's on the screen at passport control? Is that it? Have we answered everything else? I've been a little bit, I suppose a bit over the top myself in answering questions today, but that's. That's all I've got. We got anything else? What's on the screen at passport control? Zero. 345-606-0973 and we need some more questions. In that case, we should have time to answer three or four before close the play today. Charlie's in Northwood, for example. Charlie, question or answer? Good question, Jane. Carry on. It's regarding refrigeration. I'm interested to know when did we start? As mankind start refrigerating food, really? Mass refrigeration. I know we had kind of ships that were transporting meat back from South America during the colonial times that had ice on it. But I'm just interested to know when did we start? Like making ice in the kind of periods like the 19th century and 18th century. Really nice. It's a lovely question. There's a nice house near me, you know, there's a little, um. Because the Chiswick house and nearby where I live, they're. What was his name? Falkenberg, who married Oliver Cromwell's daughter, had a big. Had a palace, Falkenberg palace. And it looks like a sort of weird ovoid bus shelter, but it's actually an ice house dating back to when the. When the big house was pulled that was still there. It got pulled down, I think the top. Top end of the 20th century. So making it, I would have thought, involved electricity. Yeah. This is why I was interested, because I know the early 20th century, we had ice to be put into these kind of makeshift fridges, if you. If you will. Yes. I mean, an ice box. Literally a box of ice. It wasn't plugged into anything, but the more you could seal it, then the longer it would stay cold. So I'm just interested. How did you get to the point of getting blocks of ice if electricity wasn't kind of as big as it was? Yeah. No, I mean, because you thought some parts of the world where you could just cut it out, the ground you've seen frozen, I presume, where the love interest is often involved in the transportation of ice. But that's not what you mean. You mean making ice? Exactly. I'm just going to be linked to electricity, but we'll try and find out for you. It's a lovely question. I mean, when we first started refrigerating food isn't your question, because that would be. I mean, refrigerating in a mechanical sense. Good work. I like that. Charlie. Chris is in. Chris Hashem. It's come up so late. When did we first refrigerate food mechanically, rather than just by sticking it on a block of ice? Or, you know, you knew it. And people living in very cold areas would have been refrigerating fish forever. Pretty much. Chris is in Croydon. Chris, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Chris is to do with the passport control. Oh, yes. Yeah. I mean, you stumbled onto the right answer there, but officially, I'm not allowed to tell you or what is on the screen. But what you said was pretty right anyway. I don't know how safe the country is in your hands, Chris. I didn't say it. I'm just saying. I'm just repeating what you said. Right. Qualifications, qualifications, qualifications. 20 miserable years working for the home office. Are you allowed to grow a beard at the moment? Well, I'm off, so I can do. I like, with my face, thankfully. Carry on. I deserve you a round of applause. Good work. And I like the fact. I like the fact you're not allowed to tell me and I really do. Could you do it? You don't work at Gatwick. Do you feel? In Croydon? I know. I used to do Heathrow and Stansted, but now I don't do the airport. Stuff. No. Okay. You're undercover. Deep undercover. Yeah, I know you can't. That's what I'm doing. I'm trying to lead you in. I'm using my KGB training. Well, some of my colleagues will think I'm undercover because I don't do much work when I'm there anyway. That's because you're dealing with the big stuff that you're not allowed to tell them about. I've already worked. I've worked out your mo, my friend. I just remembered. I want. Wanted to say thank you to someone who works at Gatwick. Not on Chris's side of the fence, but bloke and I actually asked his name, and it's a cool name. Makes him sound like a 1960s pop star. But if you know him, would you tell him that he got a shout out on the radio today, not Chris and everybody else listening. A chap called Dave Love, who saved my life when I got back from my Holly bobs a couple of weeks ago, absolutely first class. I couldn't work out whether he worked for Gatwick airport or for easyJet, so I tweeted both of them to tell them how lucky they were to have a professional of that calibre on their payroll. But of course, these are customer service accounts, so I never know whether or not the message would have got passed upstairs. So his name was Dave Love. He works trackside, airside, I beg your pardon? At Gatwick airport North terminal. And his customer service on the day that I landed at Gatwick a couple of weeks ago was among the best I've ever experienced from any individual in any institution in all of my 45 years. All right, so pass it on. 1254. John's in Sid cup. John, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, John. Right. My wife came home with a bag of conkers the other day. It's not called Marlene, is she? Sorry? Nothing. Carry on. Yeah, she started distributing all around the house, and she said it's to keep spiders away. Oh, yes, that old horse chestnut. It's all going over your head today, John. I said that old horse Chestnut? Yeah, it's pretty good. Thank you, John. Well, a lot of people believe it, and there is also some evidence that the freshness of the conquer look is the received wisdom is I'm going to go definitive on this, even though it's not a definitive answer, because the definitive answer is not as yet available, unless people believe that the conquer gives off some sort of gas that the spider finds repellent, which is why you put them in the corners of rooms and you sort of sprinkle them around the place. However, I know that about ten years ago, the royal, one of the royal societies, probably chemistry, started an investigation into whether or not there was any scientific basis to the belief that conkers deter spiders. And at this, I can't actually remember whether they've reported back or not. John. Oh, right, okay. So, I mean, you could, you could either wait because you've got four minutes or you could, I suppose, get in touch with the Royal Society of Chemistry. I think there was even a cash prize on the table for someone who could prove it. Oh, right, okay, well, I'll wait four minutes and just see how we go on conkers and spiders. I forgot about the other question involving how you get on horses. No, I didn't, I answered it correctly. Why is Alistair on the line with another alternative? Answer Alistair's in Salisbury question or answer Alistair Stewart's inquiry on an equine question. This is a thing of beauty. I know. I hope so. Go on then. Yeah, apparently it goes back to ancient times. I'm not sure if it's Romans, but the soldiers used to have their swords hanging on the left of their bodies. So it's easier to put your left foot into the stirrup. Yeah, unless they were. Unless they were left handed, in which case they'd have their sword hanging on the right side of their body. Well, and then they'd go on to go onto the horse for exactly, exactly the same reason as I've already offered. The other way around from 90% of the population? Well, possibly, but. No, not possibly. You can. We can decide. There's only one way to settle this. Are you right handed or left handed? I'm right handed. Okay, well, we'll have a sword fight and you have to hold the sword in your left hand and I'll hold mine in my right hand. Fair enough, James. And whoever wins gets the round of applause. Well, name a time in a play. I challenge you, sir. So, no, I'm not having it. I like your answer, but that won't be the reason why they get on it. I mean, might be the reason why they get on horses in the way that they do, but it's still because the massive majority of us are right handed. If you were left handed, you'd have your sword on the other side and you'd hop on the horse the other way around. Interesting pieces of information I've picked up in recent months. Reading this rather good book I'm reading at the moment. You know, when we talk about why the traffic drives on the left and the right, and there are different reasons, and a lot of people think it's something to do with swords. First time it ever happened was on London Bridge. London Bridge was getting so crowded because it used to have shops and houses and all sorts of things on it. London Bridge was getting so crowded that in about 1780 something, the Lord Mayor of London decreed that you should always travel moving forwards on the left hand side of London Bridge. So now, you know, Carol's in Chelsea. Carol, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Carol. It's the, um. Oh, I can't think of the word now. Conkers. The conkers. Oh, the co, is it? Go on. Um. You have to drill a hole in them. What? And then that. That puts spiders off. Yeah, but why? We don't. We're not looking for advice. We want to know the science, Carol. Well, the smell of the conquer puts spiders off and they won't come through the window. Well, why does it, though? Well, I don't know. No, that's the science. That's the science bit, is that I'm not scientific. I'm just conkers. My dog and my daughters, when they were young, were scared. And we used to get the conkers and drill holes with them and put them on their windowsill and spiders never came in. I unfortunately. I mean, this is, this. We've kind of can't do anything with this information. I needed the signs. I needed you to say something like, it's, it's, it's, you know, it's oxygen ammonified or something like that. Exactly. That's what it is. Well, it's not that, because I just made that up. Well, it sounds better than my answer. I'm not going to argue with you about that, Carol. But, hey, you know, thanks for playing. Okay, my day goes. That's it. Well, see it now. I say we've finished and we still don't have answers to the refrigeration question or the. Or the horse Chestnut, the corner question. I don't think there is an answer to the con. Hang on, Paul, the. Paul's on the line. Paul, have you got an answer? You bonkers about conkers? Yeah. I mean, Chelsea, you've had it on your show before. James, I've tried it out in my son's room. There's no spider webs. No, I know, I know, but you don't know the science. I know we've had it on the show before, but the question was, does it work? To which the answer was yes. Why is everyone laughing. You're putting these people through. You don't know any science, Paul. Do you know? There wasn't a scientific proof given. It's just that they don't like the smell. Yeah, that's what I knew already. It's coming up to 01:00 thank you, Paul and Anka and Carol. I don't know why they do this to me and I don't know why they do it to you either. It's coming up to 01:00 you've been listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty on LBC. Thank goodness for that. Thanks very much indeed, James. Later on this afternoon from three why are we in the UK so far behind many other nations when it comes.