Why don't ladybirds get stuck in spider webs? - 26 Nov 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's approaching four minutes after twelve, and it is time for your weekly dose of enlightenment. Not quite by me, I hasten to add. By, well, you. You can enlighten each other and me while you're at it as well. This is the mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to get answers to the sort of questions that have us all puzzled for the longest time. 0345. The number you need is this okay? You'll only hear me say it when I've got phone lines free during this hour. Historically, they're busier than ever, so. Zero 345-606-0973 if you know how mystery hour works, you get early dibs on grabbing yourself a place on the switchboard. If you don't know how it works, bear with me for just one moment. You know the newspaper columns where a reader writes in and says, why do we do that? Come from what's that all about? The whences, the withers, even perhaps the occasional wherefore. And then everybody else takes it as a call to arms. So within days, everybody sort of writes in with the answers. If you're lucky, within a week, you might get an answer to your question. This is the live and purely interactive version thereof. So this is an opportunity to get an answer by 01:00 today. And of course, you don't have to get involved. You could just sit back, put your feet up and accept the only stone cold guarantee available on british radio, that by 01:00 today, if. If you listen to the rest of this broadcast, you will know more than you do now. It may not be knowledge that you're grateful for. It may not be knowledge that proves useful in any way, shape or form, but it will nonetheless be knowledge. And by 01:00 today, you'll have more of it than you have right now. And if that doesn't constitute a reason to lock down your aerial, then, frankly, I don't know what does. Les in Wales, in Somerset, is going to take some beating for texter of the day. He suggested that what we do first during mystery hour this week is ask the question we were just asking about Syria. Get Professor Hal to ring in, and then everything will be solved and we can all move on happily to live the rest of our lives. That gives you an idea, an indication of the power that some people feel mystery hour wields. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number. The only circumstances in which your question will probably not get on air is if it's boring. And I'm afraid that management's decision is final on that issue. And by management I mean Beth and Jess, who will be answering your phones today and demand a degree of decorum and politeness. If you sense that they think your question is dull, but they're too polite to say so. Please take the hint and move on. Free up the phone line for somebody else. And the only other criteria under which you might be invited to jog on is repetition. But frankly, between Jones the engineer and I, we struggle to remember what we had for breakfast, let alone whether or not we dealt with this question two and a half years ago. So that is a slightly less stringently enforced rule than the other one. Six minutes after twelve. That's probably more than enough from me. If you hear someone ask a question that you do know the answer to, ring in, the number remains the same. We do our best to keep churning those phone lines throughout the hour. And if you do answer a question, I'll ask you what your qualifications are. Which doesn't mean I want you to list all your a levels. I just want you to tell me how you know the answer to the question that you've just answered. Right. How do you know? That answer might because you saw it on telly last night, or it might be because you have a PhD in the relevant subject. It doesn't matter what the qualification is. I just need to be clear on what it is until I decide whether or not you've gone definitive and deserve the most cherished and sought after prize in the history of radio broadcasting. The world famous newly minted mystery hour. Round of applause. It could be yours seven minutes after twelve. Let's start with Jerry, who is in Loudoun. Jerry, what's your question? Hi, James. Yeah, it's a question. How does our brain decide what memories to keep? Because from my most sort of vivid memories are trivial little things. Like what? Like what? Oh, that just bore you, James. No, I know. I want to hear. Well, some little things in school, like being chased around the playground. Yeah, you're right. So just, you know, the major things are big holidays. Things I sort of forget about. I can't really remember my oldest remember. I can't really remember my eldest daughter being born. But I can remember hanging from the school gates of the convent in Kidderminster while Sister Catherine tried to pull me down because I was trying to run home. Yeah, exactly. Why does the break? That's a really good question. What's the stuff you want to remember but can't? Exactly. Also, while I'm on, I'd like to thank you. I recently spent 18 weeks in hospital and your show was the highlight of my weekend. Flipping out, mate. It was. But having said that. No, don't spoil it. Don't spoil it. Jerry. Pudding or blood tests. So it wasn't much competition really. No, no, I see what you mean. Yeah. Well, I'll take it to the bank. Anyway. Round of applause for Gerry for his excellent compliment. That is the last random round of applause that we'll be doling out this week. Let's go next to Bishop Stortford. Shaun, is there question or answer, Sean? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Okay. How do you get the. Well, whatever it is. A ping pong ball. I like that. Sorry? I like that. I'm just thinking. Sorry. Because it's. It's. It's a very pressured ball, isn't it? It's. It is. Why a ping pong ball? Not a tennis ball or any other sort of hollow ball? I was going to think either a tennis ball or a ping pong ball, but the valve on tennis ball might be underneath the fluff, but. And a ping pong ball has a special gas in it because it smells. You can smell when a ping pong ball's got a puncture. Right, I'll get back to those. They end up deflating. I'll probably play once a week and I just talk to myself. No, I like that. I was going to think if it was heathen it'd be an interesting game of tennis, wouldn't it? You've just invented a new game there. Nine minutes after twelve. How do they get the gas into the ping pong balls and how does our memory decide which bits to keep and which bits to jet? That's a really interesting question. I wonder if it's got an answer. There's a lot about the human brain we don't know at memory. That's a song in cats, isn't it? Song by the character that Beverly Knight's playing at the moment. I have to tell you, I was singing Beverly's praises the other day on the program after seeing her in Memphis. I got an amazing email because she's now in cats from someone who said, we went to see Beverly Knight in cats on your recommendation. And her rendition of memory was the single finest experience we've had in 30 years of theatre going in London. So there you go. I haven't seen that show ever, actually. I haven't seen her in it, but I'm a huge, huge fan and I'm glad that you. Now, whose names I can't remember after your charming email, I'm glad you are, too. Tom's in Kettering. Tom. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Yes, basically, I used to work at a pub called the Red lion, and I noticed there's loads and loads of red lions in the UK. Why is it called the Red lion? What's the origins? Why not the red sheep or something? Well, I mean, there's several ways of answering this question. Why are there so many red lions? Is probably not that easy to answer. Why is it not a sheep? Is fairly obvious in that, you know, would you meet you at the red sheep? There are no such things. The red lion will be linked to the Crusades, won't it? And Richard the Lionheart. But I think the answer to your question is pictograms, because what you're really asking is, why the Red lion? Why is it such a popular pub name? Why is it a pub name at all? And the answer is gone. I was going to say the lion's a bit more eye catching than the sheep. Bingo. And the pub signs go back to the days before we could all read and write. So how would you know that you'd found the red lion? There'll be a line there. And what color would it be? Red. Round of applause for me. And I would recommend, while we're at it, the red line in Barnes. Ask for the landlord, Angus. Tell him I sent you and he'll you a free glass of tap water. Maria. Zin Peckham. Maria. Question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Maria, why does the moon affect things like your menstrual cycle and your dream doesn't affect things? I'm glad you cleared that up. There was a story this week about the male men, men believing they have a time of the month. 25% of men think they have a time of the month, but we may get onto that tomorrow. Do we know that? The moon does. Are we certain about that? I'm not certain. I'd like to know. So is there a relationship between the moon and menstrual cycles? Because I know if more. So dreams. Dreams and menstrual cycles or moon and dreams? No. Moon and dreams and moon and menstrual cycle. Steady on. I've got. Okay, so we've got three points. Three points on this triangle. I can only really deal with two. Okay, I'm going to go for dreams. So how does the moon affect our dreams? Yeah. So why did you bring menstrual cycles into it? What could they affect? Moon and dreams. And if they get a side order of that. No, that's not a very comfortable turn of phrase. Twelve minutes after twelve. Maria, many thanks. Sandy's in Billingshurst. Mandy, question or answer? Is that Sandy? Did I call you Mandy? You did. Quite a deep voice from Mandy. You've got that Sandy God. Yeah. Question please James, carry on. A couple of months ago when the weather warmed up again I had two ladybirds walking around on the outside of my kitchen window. And me being me, I look at them quite often. They visited every day and I noticed they seemed to be walking into spiders webs and walking straight out again. So I thought that can't be possible. And then one of them flew into a spider's web that was hanging from the guttering and flew straight out again. Just turned around and flew out cool as you like. And I just thought how is it that ladybirds can do that when flies definitely can't because I saw one being eaten at about the same time and I'm not sure about other beetles whether they can do that. So there must be something not just on the shell I would have thought, but something on their underbelly as well. It gives them this ability to walk straight out of a spider's web. What? Yeah, I like this. Why don't ladybugs get stuck in spiders webs? Yeah, basically. I like that a lot. I'll try and get you an answer. That'd be lovely if you can James. We also need. We also need to know. Of course. That and Sandy, mate, I'm so sorry for calling you Mandy. That's all right. I get called a lot worse. Thank you. And me both reading my inbox 1214 is the time we need to know how our brains decide which memories to keep. Why is it that you can remember some things really clearly that you frankly don't give much of a hoot about but there's some things you really wish you could remember that you can't remember at all. The relationship between the moon and our dreams and how you get gas inside a ping pong ball. It's twelve. It's just coming up to quarter. Oh, phone lines free. Be quick because we've rattled through these questions. There's a couple free. You can answer any of the ones I've just asked then ring now. And if you've got one of your own that you want to get on the board, then ring now you know the number. It's 12:15 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 90 minutes after twelve is the time. Questions still in need of answers. How does the brain decide which memories to keep and which memories to lose? How does. How do ladybugs avoid getting stuck to spider's webs? How do you get the gas inside a ping pong ball? And what's the relationship between the moon and our dreams? Although I suspect the questioner probably now regrets focusing on dreams, and what she really wanted to know about was the relationship between the moon and her menstrual cycle. So you can answer either of those if you want. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Astonishingly, this is one of the things I love most about mystery hour. I don't take answers from Twitter, text or email. I like to keep everything on the phone. But the very esteemed film composer David Arnold, you know his work from everything from the James Bond films through to Sherlock, with things like Independence Day in between. He's been in touch to tell me that he used to work in a ping pong ball factory. He doesn't actually know the answer to the question, but he knows, frankly, more than is healthy about ping pong balls. As you could tell if you follow my Twitter feed, 20 minutes after twelve is a time Raheem is in Clapham. Question or answer? Raheem, I have an answer for you, James. Come on, mate. Right, I'm a bit nervous because I've had two answers and two round of applause in the past and I'm really nervous about breaking that. Going for the hat trick. Going for the hat trick. For the hat trick. Now, come on, memories. Why do we remember? Why did the brain choose, and why does the brain choose to select some memories and ignore other memories? It's actually really simple. The more you think about something, the more you remember it. So the analogy I was given is that it's like a pathway, literally like a pathway. So if you walk down a path once or twice, you leave a small path behind you. If you go down that path hundreds and hundreds of times, it becomes a very established path, it eventually becomes a road. The more you access a memory, the stronger the link to that memory becomes. So even though some memories are insignificant or seemingly insignificant about them many times in our life, which establishes them as a strong memory, and even though other things may. May emotionally appear to be more significant to us, we haven't thought about them that many times. So, like my wedding day, my wedding day I can hardly remember at all because I was so flipping busy. I was a bit drunk and running around like a blue. You were very busy, so you haven't thought about the specific aspects of it, whereas there may be something insignificant which you remembered many, many times and that then has become or not even insignificant. It could be significant, but something you don't want to remember, like getting beaten at prep school. I can still smell the polish on the door outside the headmaster's study where we're all queuing up to get caned. Not in a good way. It's reasonable. It's how you remember names. If somebody gives you a name and you actually say that name over and over and over and over and over again, you won't forget their name. But if they say their name and you don't say it over and over, you're likely to forget it. It's because the more times you access that memory, the stronger the memory becomes. Qualifications? None. Except my uncle is a neuro consultant and I asked him once and that's what he told me. That's your qualification? That's a good qualification. My uncle told me he's a neuro consultant. I think it probably. I can't. Just relax, mate. Seriously, don't be needy. I'm calm. Cat's getting scared. I think that's pretty good, don't you, James? Oh, get in. There you go. Happiness reaching to Clapham 22 minutes after twelve. And I told you you'd know more by 01:00 than you do now. It makes sense that as soon as you think about it, like all the best answers to mystery hour questions, you sort of go, oh, yeah, of course. And whenever I do big up a mystery hour answer, of course, I genuinely increase the likelihood of a stewards inquiry being called later in the hour. So I probably shouldn't have done that then. Tony's in Peckham. Tony, question or answer? Yeah, question, please. Yeah, go on then. How's it going? I'm all right, mate. How are you? Yeah, good. What it is when you get a chill down your spine, someone turned around and says to you all told me, great. Yeah. What's the meaning of that? Which bit? The bit as I would. Someone's. Why would they say, and you just get a little shit, you get a little shiver. Yeah. You know when you get shiver down your spine, someone always will show you. Great. Yeah. Which. I mean, which bit are you asking about? What? I mean, is it the physiological reasons behind getting a shiver down your spine? Or is it the origins of the phrase someone's just walked over me grave. The phrase is, someone's just walked over me grave. Well, that's quite obvious, really. And also why my grave? You know what I mean? Why'd you say your grave? You know? Well, you. You get a shiver and you say, someone's just walked over my grave. That's it, yeah. All right. So the origins of that phrase. Yeah, all right. I don't know, mate. That's what I'm saying. That's why I wong up, try to get you an answer. I'm interested in the physiological side of it as well, but it's probably sort of nerves. That phrase, someone's just walked over my grave, why would that be a suitable response to a shivery feeling? John is in Chiswick. John, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, John. Ping pong ball. Basically, the ping pong ball is made in two sides. Yes. And then it's basically with, like. It's pushed together and they're electronically sealed with heat and then they're trimmed off. The actual smell you get is not a gas, it's actually the smell from the burning of the inside. So it stays on the inside of the ping pong ball. So it's just air inside? Yeah, it's just air. And basically the bounce you get is the stress on the ball because it's actually plastic. So they seal it with heat. And that sort of chemical smell is the smell of the. Of the burning, if you will. Plastic. That's it. Qualifications? Uh, Discovery Channel. You watch the program about ping pong balls? Well, it's a has it made program and it's, uh. They interest me. I love to see how things are made now. I don't know. Well, I have to say that that does tally with. With David Arnold's description. And he worked in a ping pong ball factory. Says two pieces of what looks like plastic communion wafers, heated, formed into hemispheres, then glue heat welded together, they're then tossed it. Do you know what happens next? Mate? You've seen the show. Yeah. They get tossed in a grainy powder. Grainy powder tossing which sticks to the outside, giving the ball grip. Oh, yeah, I see that bit. But I mean that you asked about where the gas is and it's not. I'm just putting more, more. There's no gas. It's just air. But with a. Yeah, right. Round of applause for John. Thank you very much. Yeah. You can't buy ping pong balls in Chiswick anymore, can you? I don't know, mate. I'm not in Chiswick. Anymore. I'm in Heston. Well, what's the situation in Heston for buying ping pong balls? Wouldn't have a clue. See, these are the questions that only get asked once a week. Stuart is in. Do you know, I bought ping pong balls in Chiswick once? A sports shot. Shot. Now, guess who was in front of me buying a cricket ball? Go on, guess. No, go and have another guess. So I'm buying ping pong balls. He's buying a cricket ball. Only Colin Firth. Stuart's in Caterham. Stuart, question or answer? Come on, sir. I want to know why the planets in our solar system rotate, what causes them to rotate and why other things don't rotate. Like our moon, for instance, and maybe the sun. I'm not sure the sun rotates. I don't. I don't really like this question. What makes planets rotate and why do some things rotate and not others? I think I'm going to leave this one out. No, you can't. It's just not interesting. Has it really? Why? Yeah, well, why do we spin? I can understand us moving around the sun because of gravity. Yeah, but why are we actually rotating on our axis? And why are some things not rotating on their axis? Interesting? I won't go that far. The sun does. The sun. The sun does spin, by the way. I don't know what doesn't. What doesn't spin? Our moon. The moon is. The moon is locked into our gravitational field. May all the other planets aren't. We're locked into the gravitational field of the sun. We still rotate. That's a good point. Yeah, well done. Stop saying things in my area making me look stupid. Change. All right, you're on. Why do some bodies, some heavenly bodies rotate when other heavenly bodies don't? Yeah, why do we rotate? Well, no, I don't. Yeah, all right, I'll see what I can do. Jay's in Romford. Jay, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Jay. It's for the ladybirds. I'm not getting caught in spiders. Birds? Yeah. How come? Well, you know. Well, you know, a ladybird's a type of beetle and we all know they've got the shell, it's quite smooth. Yeah. Now, if you look at things like flies, bumblebees and whatnot, if you look under a microscope, they actually have tiny, tiny hairs on them, and that's obviously to design, to cross pollinate plants and whatnot. Now, where. Where's a bee or a flyer would fly into the spider's web, obviously getting stuck to the spider's web when it gets tangled because of all its little appendages. Of course. Of course. That's exactly it. And then, obviously, we're a ladybird, it's smooth, so nothing's going to stick to the web. I'll see if it can go. How do they contribute to pollination, then? What? Ladybirds? Yeah. Or don't they? I suppose. I don't think I do. I suppose that they could. Do they green fly, don't they green fly? I suppose so. The answer is. Ladybirds are just so smooth. Yeah. They're just cool, smooth operators qualifications. I just used to look at insects under the microscope in school, mate, and that was it. Did you specifically address this question or do you just remember the unparalleled smoothness of the ladybird? Well, it's that and what the teacher used to say and whatnot. And you kind of just. Yeah, if you ever look. It's really interesting. Round of applause. I think that's probably it, isn't it? It has to hook on something. There's no glue there. I like that. Well done. Right. Crike keeper heading towards the news headlines. After that, we'll get stuck into some more questions. Ones that still need answers include the shiver up your spine or the phrase walking over my grave. We've done the ladybirds, we've done the ping pong balls, we've done pretty much everything. So it's the planets and the spiny shivers. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer either of those, or indeed, if you've got a question of your own. Time now. 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 25 minutes to one. I knew. I knew I should have trusted my instincts on that planet question and biffed it off the board completely. Things always get really complicated with questions about the solar system. I may have misspoken earlier. This is because Jones, the studio engineer, speaks in my ear occasionally and very, very rarely. I just repeat what he says because I think it might be true and I've made that terrible mistake today. Of course, the moon rotates. It's just that we're rotating as well, so we only ever see the same side of the moon. If the moon wasn't rotating, then we'd be seeing all different sides of it whenever we rotate ourselves, potentially. Or not seeing it at all, or. Anyway, forget it. It rotates. The question is, why do some heavenly bodies rotate and other heavenly bodies don't? Although I can't think of any that don't. I told you. I told you we shouldn't have done this question. You never flipping listen to me. Richard's inactant question or answer, Richard. Well, it's an answer to which question we're talking about the solar system, and it's elaborating on what you've said. You're right. Does rotate. A lunar day is 28 earth days. So it's 14 days of daylight and 14 days of night. And because, as you rightly say, the same side of the moon is presented to the earth all the time because of relative rotational velocities, we think that there is a dark side of the moon when there isn't. Yes. So we think of the light side of the moon because the moon reflects light. Therefore, that's the side that must always be bright. There must obviously be a dark side. There isn't. But because the earth and the moon rotate, relatively speaking, at the same velocity, it's all to do with parallax and all that stuff. Well, don't say all that stuff, because the original question, which Jones, the engineer has very, very amateurishly distracted us from, is about when the solar system forms. Yes. All the gas formed from a nebula, which is a posh word for cloud. Yeah. And this cloud began to contract at the center. And all the gas and dust and everything began to spiral in towards it like a whirlpool. Yeah. And as all the dust and gas and metal and all that begins to accrete, forming planets. These planets rotate at different velocities, and the sun does rotate. But because the sun isn't a solid object, it rotates at different velocities depending on where you are on the surface, generating electrical potentials. So do all planets rotate and do all heavenly bodies, all the ones in the solar system do. We may discover a solar system where there is a planet orbiting the sun which does not rotate, but it wouldn't be in our solar system. No. It would mean that if this happened to the earth, the earth day, six months night and six months day. So temperatures in the night time would drop to about -100 degrees c. That's no fun. And would rise to about plus 70 or 80 in daytime, which would be six months long. So it spins originally because. Because of how it was formed in the accretion disk of a cloud of hydrogen. Yes. And it continues to spin because. Because of inertia, they're slowing down. The earth is slowing down partly because of the drag of the moon. In a billion years time, an Earth day will be about 40 hours long because of the drag of the moon. And the moon is moving away from the earth partly due to the Coriolis effect. You know the effect you get on a roundabout? When the roundabout's spinning, it tries to throw you off, so you hold on tight. That's the Coriolis effect. So the moon is rotating, but moving away from the earth something like a 0.1 of a centimeter, 2 year or whatever it is. In a billion years time, it will be over double the distance from the earth. But the earth's rotation would have slowed down. Now, Venus rotates in the other direction, west to east, and a venusian day is 222 Earth. I'm gonna have to interrupt you, because if I don't, you'll carry on talking until halfway through Sheila Fogarty's show. I can tell already. What are your qualifications, Richard? Ba. History. Well, no. Come on. How do you know this? I'm just interested in science. Where did you learn. It didn't just appear fully formed in your cerebral cortex, did it? Horizon books, the Internet, asking people things like that. I'm just interested in Renaissance man. You are a Renaissance mandala that sort of. Exactly like Copernicus. Give him a round of applause. Well played, sir. 1239 is the time. Mark's in Surbiton. Question or answer, Mark? It's a question, please, James. Yes. My daughter commented this last night that it's nearly December. And in a moment of lucidity, it occurred to me that December should actually be the 10th month. Yes. As should September be the 7th. October. 8. Yeah. I'm not sure about November. No, that would be nine. Yeah. And in actual fact, they're all shifted too long. And I wonder which two months have been inserted. July. Because of Julius Caesar. All right. Named a month after himself. And grand. I mean, that's how it happened. It's a roman emperor just. Just stuck an extra month on the calendar in honor of himself. Okay. And the other one. Oh, come on, mate. I've given you a pretty good answer. March. Half a round of applause by James. August. August, Augustus, Julius and Augustus clap away. Thank you very much. That's what happens when I don't listen to Jones. Mark's in Manchester. Mark, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. I'd like to know, in french language, some things are masculine and some things are feminine, like a masculine gait and a feminine fence, for example. Yes. I asked my mother in law, who's a French Mauritian, why this was. She's a french what? French Mauritian. I thought you said electrician. I thought you said electrician. She's a french electrician. Go on. Sorry, mate. Carry on. French Mauritian. French Mauritian. Yeah. I asked her why this was and she said, it is because it is. I think you were a round of applause. Because it's not definitive. It is because it is. She said, c'est la vie. She said, c'est la vie. Exactly. C'est la vie. Monticello. Yeah. Why do they have masculine and feminine in French? I like that question because it doesn't make any sense at all. It makes everything a lot harder to learn and it opens you up to the possibility of embarrassment when all you're trying to do is speak the flipping language and they look down their noses at you as if you're trying to insult their entire history and heritage. My point exactly. Thank you very much. Why does French have feminine and masculine, and I've got a bunch of phone lines free now because we are cooking with gas today. We've done that. We haven't done the moon yet, have we? We've done pretty much everything else shiver down your spine. And I want to know now the answer to that question, too. So if you know the answer to that question, why does French have Le and la, masculine and feminine? Do we know the origins of that practice? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. And I can tell you straight that we've got room for loads more questions, too. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call if you want to get your question on the board. Do it now, seriously, and you will get through. I can't take any contributions via text or twitter or email. I'm sorry, but I am reading the tweets that are coming in, and it has been pointed out, apparently by one fan of cartoons and comic books, that the Green Lantern did once dress up as a ladybird in order to get immunity to Spider Man's webs, which I think you feel the better now for knowing. Lawrence, is Anisha. Lawrence, question or answer? An answer, James. Good afternoon. Hello, Lawrence. Well, from solar system to shivering. Yes, I think I'm an exponent shivering, having spent some many years in medical school. We shiver because we're trying to retain the body core temperature. Therefore, if it's an emotional response, which is adrenaline, fight or flight, we shiver. For example, if you go to the loo and you do a wee, you'll shiver afterwards because you're lowering your body core temperature. Therefore you'll have a quick shiver. Therefore a shiver is a physiological response to either an emotional or a physical action linked. Linked to core temperature. Yes. Nothing to do with electricity. I nearly said something. No, absolutely not. Why would it happen randomly, then? Well, it doesn't. It is a physiological response, so it must have only happened when you've caught yourself without realizing it in a draft or a breeze or something like that. Because that will be an emotional. That will. Physical. Yes, an emotional. Say you get. Get a shock. Yes. I mean, you get a fright, you will shiver because the fright will increase the adrenaline, because you're going into the fight or flight and therefore your body needs to maintain. Yeah, I like it. And your medical school qualifications, obviously, are part of this, but. But what? I think he wanted more to know where the origin of the phrase someone's just walked over my grave. But that. That's just a way of. Well, you know, I mean, if you're going in the grave, you're cold, aren't you? I mean, that's a very good point there. I. Unless you're hot, of course. Well, be quite scared and emotional as well, if you were still alive. I get that. Kind of give you a round of applause. How many of you had now, Lawrence, over the years? This is my third and I enjoy every single one. It never gets tired, does it? Never gets old. You're a brilliant guy. Oh, sure. You're a brilliant guy. It's going up to 1245 from the LBC. 1249 is the time. Excuse me. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. We've got three left, I think, so you've got time to get a couple more questions up, if you're quick. We want to know why they have different genders in the french language. Le and La. Is it just French? I mean, other. Other languages? I don't speak enough languages to know the answers to that. But why? Why is it lenin, this and that? It only complicates the language for foreigners. Maybe that's why they did it in the first place. And so much of English, modern English, is built upon French from the norman invasion. Well done, us, for not following that, following them down that path. Is there any relationship between the moon and dreams? Poor old Maria asked that question ages ago. We haven't even began to come close to an answer to it. And the origin of the phrase, someone just walked over my grave. You say it when you've sort of had a shiver. We've had the explanation of why we shiver, but we still don't know why we use that phrase, let's crack on. Steve's in Chatham. Steve, question or answer? Yeah, hi, James. I'm gonna challenge an answer you gave earlier. Oh, I. Come on, then. The red lion. Yes. Okay. Complete buncombe. How would an illiterate person who couldn't read know what a lion was? If they were gonna go looking for a pub? How would they know what anything was under that logic? Sorry? How would they know what anything was? Well, they'd know what a sheep was because they'd see one in the field every day. No, they wouldn't. Not necessarily. Not if they lived in the middle of a city, anyway. The real answer. So when. When they went to the crusades with Richard the Lionheart, no one knew what that meant. Um. You got me there. And you see, this is what happens if you come on and say, buncombe, mate. If you'd just been a little bit more polite, I wouldn't have done it quite so viciously. Oh, right, okay. We know what the real answer is, which is pubs are called the Red lion because it's recognizable to the people going there. In the days before literacy was widespread, there's dispute over the origin of the red lion, whether it's Richard the Lionheart or James I of England, James the 6th of Scotland. But that's not relevant to the question that we answered. Right, okay, well, that was the answer I was going to give. That's the real answer. How's this worked out for you, then, Steve? Not good. Yeah. 1251 is the time. Mandy's in great Portland Street. Mandy, question or answer? Question. Carry on. How do they work out that there is seven dog years to one human year? Well, use your noodle, Mandy. It is Mandy, isn't it? Not Sandy. Think about it. Just obviously, I think they just kind of took a punt on how long a dog lives, didn't they? It's roughly. Roughly a 7th of how long a human does. How else could it be? Once you've eliminated the question, but once you've eliminated the impossible, whatever you are left with, however improbable, must be the truth. Said Sherlock Holmes. Said Sherlock Holmes. So they just sort of. At some point in history, somebody realized that dogs lived about, you know, a 7th of how long humans lived, and they just. So they started talking about dog years. Okay, I'm going to leave it on the board. All right? So how do you know there are seven dog years to one human year? And it may be that I've just embarrassed myself, which would actually only be fair, given the way I spoke to the caller before. You. So it's only fair for me to get a little bit of mild on air humiliation. So there's seven minutes for people to humiliate me by pointing out that this was actually a brilliant question of Mandy's. And it does indeed have a comprehensive answer. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you would like to do that. Sean is in high wickham. Sean, question or answer? Answer. Jones. Come on, then. La and leh. Pardon? Lar. And layer french problem. Lan. La. Yeah, that one. Yeah. I had a really fearsome french teacher called Madame de Forge. I also cut into the memory question as well, because I can remember her saying, I bet you can, madame de Forge. Oh, yeah. Before the French Revolution, women were the property of their husbands and had no rights. But after the egalitarian fraternity setup came along, they decided that they'd have equal everything, including the same personage in language. Shut the front door. Shut the front door and get to the back of the queue. So it's a. It's. It's a french revolution sexual equality policy. Yep. We got any challenges to this? Is anyone else having a. Well, I mean, I'd love that to be correct, but. Do you? But that means. Up until the french revolution, it was low. Everything. It was even Lufam. Le femme Lafield. Yeah, I don't know if I'm gonna buy this. Even if madam Day Forge is a woman who still is writ large in your consciousness. Oh, she's deep in my memories, mate. She was fearsome. So prior to the french revolution, everything would have been low? Everything. Before the french revolution, there was no such thing. Wait there, Sean. Don't go away. Don't go away because you may deserve a round of applause. I'm just going to talk to Luke in Enfield. Luca, what's your answer? It's about the french language. About masculine and feminine. Go on. Yeah, it's because it's a latin language. Every latin language has masculine. It's from Latin, but there's no. There's no definite articles in Latin. There is no the. So you go. There's no masculine and feminine, is there? In Latin? Yes. Yes. I'm a Romanian speaking. Okay, so we don't also have a latin language. You have masculine and feminine. Oh, this is not going well, Sean. I should. I should have just stuck with you, mate. Yeah, all right. No one likes a bully. Luca, do you have masculine and feminine words in Romanian? Yes. What would be a feminine word for? Give me an example for a car. A car is feminine so it could be Lavwatch, I think. I think Lucas closer to the money than Sean on this, actually, at first glance, coming from the Latin. Sean. Sean. I can't quite believe that prior to the french revolution, everything in France was masculine. And then the sort of wave of Robespierre's quill, it became equally distributed between masculine and feminine. Now you hear it being said back to you, Sean, do you feel you're on thinner ice than Luca? I believe, my friend. Speak to me. She was wonderful. This is not going well. 1256 is the time. Give them both a round of applause. I think Luca was probably closer to the truth, but why do you have the definite articles? Oh, man. I thought it was a planet's question that was going to undermine us. Richard is in Stenhouse. Muir. Richard. Hello, Paul. How you doing, James? I'm grand, thank you. Question or answer? Answer. Really? I thought we'd run out. Go on, then, dog ears. Oh, yes. Different species of dogs. Different types of dogs. It was the proverbial 7th of seven years, but I've done a study and is now first species. Big dogs actually deteriorate faster than small dogs, but there's a sort of broad average on the seven year. No, really? No, no, no. Well, hang on. The question was, why do we talk about there being seven dog years to every human year? You're not actually answering that question? No, I'm getting a definitive answer for the professor in Atlanta. Is it me or has everything gone a little bit surreal in the last three minutes? Story? There's no, mate, I'm always glad. I don't quite understand what question. Well, tell me what question you're answering, then, because it's not one that I've asked. Right, well, the seven years is not. I don't know, the actual why we got the seven years. I apologize for that. That's all right. That is what we're asking, though. Yeah, I know, I know, I know. So my bad, man, give him a round of applause as well. I'm going to offend people if I'm not careful. Oh, Keith is in Henfield in Sussex. Keith, I dread to ask, mate, why have you wronged me? I want to give you an answer, because I think one of the answers you've had already is not quite right about the language. That's fine, go on. I mean, French, Spanish and Italian are all derived mainly from Latin, but also from ancient Greek. And where there was masculine, feminine and neuter. Yes, of course there was and still is in German. In Greek, they do have a definite article that does decline and it actually goes through the cases as well as the. So are we the anomaly, then? Is English the anomaly? Yes, it is. But I mean, and it's funny, you know, people talk about hoi Polloi. They do. And sometimes people refer to the hoi polloi, which is an appalling tautology, is actually the. Yes, it's the plural. Catala veno helenica. Yeah. A very stoppoli. Yeah. Okay. And what's that? What's the. What's the mask? What's the feminine? Definite article, what it defines. But it goes, ho he toe is. Hang on, it's not Christmas yet. It's coming up 1259. Round of applause for Keith. Give him a good one as well. It's a romance language. There's nothing weird about French having genders at all. It's also that are weird for not having it. Oh, boy. Roll on next week. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from ten. I'm James O'Brien. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James.