Why can i only lift the top left of my lip? - 23 Apr 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Five minutes after twelve is the time, and mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve a level of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. The way it works is this. You almost certainly have a question bubbling away in the back of your brain at the moment, a question to which you have sought an answer but failed to find one. It has to be a question that you know has an answer. I not like what a next week's lottery number is going to be or something like that, but which I don't know. Just so far it's eluded you. Somebody else listening to the program at this point in time will know the answer to your question and they will ring in and tell you what it is if you obey the first rule of mystery hour, and that is to ring in with your question. So it's like a sort of radio version of those newspaper columns where the readers write in and then other readers respond. And what I love about it, and I've said this before, but I make no apology for repetition on this occasion, is that it celebrates education. It actually celebrates knowledge. You could probably find out the answer to some of the questions you'll hear in the next hour by using Google or another search engine, or referring in the old fashioned way to the Encyclopedia Britannica. But you're only allowed to ring in with an answer if you knew it already. It's just. That's really the only rule. Well, there are three rules, really, but that's the only proper rule of mystery. That's your stone cold rule. You're not allowed to ring in with an answer that you've just looked up anywhere. Has to be something you know already. It doesn't matter how you know it. It could be because you're the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton who is already tweeting his excitement about mystery hour. Or it could just be because you saw something on the telly last night or last week or last month and it's stuck in your memory bank. So there's no snobbery involved in the criteria for being able to answer a question. There is just rule one rule, and that is you're not allowed to look stuff up. The other rules, well, these are pretty much arbitrary and imposed by us, and that is we don't like repetition. So if it's a question that we can remember answering relatively recently, won't take that, and we don't like dullness, which means if it's a question about motoring, you almost certainly won't get through. Other than that, let me give you the number zero 345-606-0973 as the hour unfolds, you will only hear me say the number if I have phone lines free. And we have to work a little bit differently to how we do the other 14 hours of the week, because the phone lines will be full immediately. But we also need to keep some of them free so that people can then ring in with answers to the questions that have already been asked. So it's a struggle to get through. What I'm told by people who manage to do it on a regular basis is you either trust to dumb luck or you employ judicious use of redial. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And whenever you hear me say that number, it means that you've got a slightly better than average chance of getting through to the studio. Let's kick off in Liverpool. Sam is in Liverpool. Sam, what's your question? Well, James, I was wondering. I was wondering why you get that horrible feeling when you scrape yourself nails along a chalkboard or on tiles. I used to do roofing. And if you scrape your nails, you get this horrible angsty feeling. And I can't believe we've never had that before. Let me. Can I just check with Jones, the engineer? I'm in a new studio, actually, Sam, and he's about three and a half miles away from me at the moment, so I'm just going to get my telescope. Jones, we have had this before. How have we never had this before? I mean, it's one of the great mysteries of life, isn't it? Yeah, I think it's happened to everyone at some point. You say chalkboard, that means that you're under the age of 25. Yeah, I still say blackboard without any fear of being accused of any form. No, you're talking about why do you get the reaction when you hear it, aren't you? Yeah. You get those hairs on the back of your neck, you do, you shiver, it's horrible. You go, stop, stop. Bad thing. It's not dangerous or anything? No. Why? I mean, what would be probably some form of evolutionary explanation. God knows what, though. I like that, Sam. Thank you very much indeed. We shall endeavor to get you an answer. Carl is in plaster. Carl, question or answer? Carl are you there? Yes. That was a bit of a babble I've just been listening to. What do you mean? What happened here? All the calls and all the calls, really. No, no, that was. No, no, no, no. Apparently that's what it sounds like inside Jones the engineer's head. What's your question, Carl? Oh, surely I'm through. I didn't realize it was through. I thought you were the producer. Sorry, he's not this polite. Why is there nobody called cobbler? It's the most common occupation. We have cooks, we have hoopers and coopers and tailors and drapers and shoemakers even. I think you just answered your own question. Anyone called cobbler. You've just answered. You've just answered your own question, haven't you? Why is that? By the time the word cobbler became into common parlance, we'd stopped naming people after their livelihood. And when we still named people after their livelihood, they were still called shoemakers, the most common occupation, apparently, of people in the French Revolution. So it's not a new thing. Were cobblers. Yes. But you weren't being named after. By the time of the French Revolution, we were no longer naming people after their occupation. I see, yeah. That's a convincing explanation. I'm sorry, I asked a dash question then. It's a great question, but it's not cobblers. But I only stretched the imagination. Yeah, I was waiting for that. That was pretty predictable. But you have shoemakers. Yeah, right. Yeah, that. That's kind of the answer. So they did do it. They just weren't called cobblers at the time when we were. Well, how do you know that? Just one of those things, my friend. You know all those voices you heard when you were on hold, they told me it's got. No, I'm taking that for an applause. And it's the only vibe, because I'll tell you how I know. Carl, are you still there? Because once you have eliminated the impossible, whatever you are left with, however improbable, must be the truth. Oh, right. I never thought of that. There you go. A little bit of Occam's razor goes a long, long way. Eleven after twelve, Andrew is in Lincoln. Andrew, question or answer? Question. James. Yes. Why are dusters yellow? Oh, I can't remember. I don't. Well, you know, you've heard it before. I think I have, yeah. Isn't it? I mean, it's a bit of a hardy perennial in this sort of exercise, isn't it? Why a doster's yellow? Is it something. I mean, I know, you can get them in different colors as well. Yeah, but. Yeah. Just weird, isn't it? Why would you want a non yellow duster? Exactly. If you saw somebody with a pink dust, you'd think, weirdo. Right. Well, you might. Yeah, you might. Could be forgiven for it. Why dusters? You know, just. See, I'm just sort of trying to keep you talking in the hope that the answer will pop into my head unprompted, because honestly, I have. It's troubled me for quite a while and I've never been out. I've even actually looked on Google. I didn't even find anything on there either. So, just as a reminder, no one else is allowed to be empty space for that long, to be honest, because I really just have no idea. You must have other areas of interest or hobbies. Well, I like to go skiing. I like skiing. I like swimming. Yellow dusters. Yellow dusters. It's not going to happen, Andrew. No, it's not going to happen. I'll leave it up. All right, let's see how we get on. Yeah, fingers crossed. 13 after twelve. Mind how you go. Emma is in Wimbledon. Emma. Question or answer? Question. Go on. Hi, James. Hello. By the way, I have pink dusters at home, not only yellow. Oh, hang on. Andrew thinks you're a weirdo. My daughter wanted to ask a question. My nine year old daughter wanted to know, can you yawn and sneeze at the same time? Is that a proper mystery? Our question. You could try that at home. Well. Well, she'd like to try it, but she just asked me the question. What makes her think you can't? Because her mouth is open, so she doesn't think she can sneeze at the same time. Because normally when you sneeze, your mouth is shut. All right, hands up. This isn't for you, this is for everyone else listening. Hands up if you just yawned, because everyone just. You're. Everyone just tried that to sort of work it out for themselves and then it turned in. Halfway through trying it, it turned into a proper yawn. I don't think I've ever yawned in the studio before, because obviously, adrenaline. But I just did a massive yawn when I was at prep school. Sorry to make you yawn. It wasn't you. It was. It was science. When I was at prep school, I was told that if you yawn and sneeze at the same time, your eyes pop out. Well, this is the thing. Yes. I think my daughter asked me. That's why I thought you were gonna say someone's told her that if she yawns and sneezes at this, I was terrified for years. No, no, I don't think she's got to that far yet when she just wants to know whether you can or not. Well, is it possible to. So what we really need is one phone call from one person who has yawned and sneezed at the same time. And that would provide us with an answer or a scientist telling us why you can't. I think it's probably. Probably a scientist probably, isn't it? Rather than someone actually doing it. Oh, okay. So what's wrong with that, then? What's wrong with someone rings, I says, yes, James, I just did it. Oh, no, that's fine. I just don't think it often happens. Well, I don't remember seeing it ever goes, you'd sort of finish the yawn before would be great. Well, I'll leave it with me, emma. I'll see. I'll see what I can do. It's 12:15 this is lbc mystery hour with james o'Brien on lbc 19 after twelve. I can't believe. And unfortunately, well, unfortunately for me, some people listen to this more closely than I do. I know that doesn't really make sense because I'm in it, but obviously I've got a few other things going on. I have to keep an eye on the wires, I have to keep an eye on the text, the tweets, the emails, have to make occasional eye contact with my colleagues to make sure that they're still awake or still alive. So sometimes when I say we've never done this question before, you, and also you might have only listened to the podcast last week of something that we recorded two years ago. So your memory collectively is actually better than mine. But I'm pretty sure we've never got a proper explanation as to why the sound of fingernails on a blackboard send shivers down our spine. Conversely, I'm pretty sure we have had an answer to the question of why all dust is a yellow before. But seeing as I can't remember it, I'm very keen to hear it again. And the third question still on the board this week in mystery hour is, can you yawn and sneeze at the same time? I don't really want you to try that at home in case the tale I was told in childhood turns out to be true and your eyeballs really will pop out if you yawn and sneeze at the same time. Back to the course. David's in Potter's bar. David, question or answer question James. Yes, yes. I noticed the other day that a few grey hairs coming through and I thought, well, whereabouts, mate? Whereabouts? Remember, it's a family program. Now my head. Okay. And I thought, well, that's probably down to stress. I've been pretty stressed the last couple of months. Oh, I'm sorry to. My question is. My question is, does. Can stress actually change you? Great. Can I give you gray hair? All I can tell you is that our fresh faced program controller here at LBC turned up a few years ago with a head of jet black hair. And now he's a silver fox. So I presume that that is more related to stress because he's a lot younger than I am. But I will, you know, an anecdotal answer. You want to know for sure? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Okay. How many gray hairs have you got? I haven't had time to count them. But you know what? There seems to be more every day. More every day. Are you gonna make any. You're gonna address it or are you gonna style it out? Yeah. You're gonna dye it. How many would you contemplate? How old are you? I'm 53. So I think I could have a few greyheads abs. Couldn't agree more. 53. I thought you're gonna say 33 or something. I can't believe you've gone so far without ever getting any. You must have led a life of uncommon ease and pleasure. It's 21 minutes after twelve. Does stress turn your hair grey? Can you yawn and sneeze at the same time? Why? Why are dust as much mostly yellow? It's an odd color to have chosen. And why does the sound of fingernails on a blackboard send our spine? Do Lally. Adam is in Isleworth. Adam, question or answer? It's a question. So I want to know where are tears stored? So when you're not crying, they're obviously they're waiting in your body ready to pop out when you get upset or something. And they're there immediately and you cry and they carry on coming. But if you don't choose to cry or nothing upsets you, where are they? Are they in some little pouch somewhere inside your body? A tear pouch? Yeah. Yeah. So obviously you got blood in veins, which is pretty obvious, but yeah. Where do you store your tears? Same place as sweat. Which is where? In the sweat pouch? I don't know if. I don't think either of us should really try to answer this, should we, Adam? Because we're just going to embarrass ourselves. Well, yeah, I'm already trying to sneeze and you're at the same time multitasking, mate. Crix, step away from the sneeze. But I don't think. I don't. Well, tear. No. All right, so you start crying and you immediately. The tears are there. The same with sweat, but you can. I mean, it's salt and water, so it's obviously in your body anyway, in different forms, in different ways. Are you sweating out of your tear duct? Kind of. But this is why I felt it would be a mistake for us to try to answer this ourselves, especially with you busy trying to yawn and sneeze at the same time. Let's leave it, then. Try and get a proper answer. Where are tears stored? Or where do tears come from? Is probably a better answer, in case they're not actually stored anywhere. Zero. 345-606-0973 it's the first of the professors. Professor Martin Smith. The professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex is on the line from Manor Park. I hope it's with a question, Professor. I could manage a question, possibly, but this is an answer, I'm afraid. Go on, then. It's to the. Why do you hate the sound of nails scraping on blackboards and chalkboards? Oh, yes, it's evolutionary psychology. Human beings are most sensitive to the human scream. It gives us survival benefit. And the human scream is roughly the same frequency as scraping your nails down a blackboard. And yet I think I respond more violently to the fingernails on a blackboard than I do to the average screen. But there is that occasional screen that hits a register that really does chill you. And that's what you're referring to, more sort of one of your family or your tribe being eaten by a predator. They'll scream at practically that frequency. Love it. And that is why, when we hear that frequency coming out of a blackboard, we shiver accordingly. It's the resonant frequency of a human ear. But we never. I don't feel the urge to run away or anything like that. Well, you actually. I do, kind of, don't I? Because I want it to stop. I want to get away. Yes. Where you in the wild? You'd be looking around, seeing where the danger. Danger is from. I think you've earned yourself a round of applause. Oh, lovely. He's had several and he still can't contain his excitement at the sound or the prospect of another one. Oh, hang on, we're going by. Oh, thank God for that. I've got the other professors here. The original professor, Professor Howe. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. We're not going head to head again, are we? Well, I hope not, James. But before we do that, I've got here a little bit of evidence that what you're doing here is increasing the intellectual heritage of our country. I mean, I emailed about it earlier and the producer said we could discuss this briefly. I can't read my emails at the moment because the screen's so far away from my eyes. Okay, can I tell you this? Yes, of course. You can listen to mystery hour and learn from it. It's four lines long. Can I do that? Yeah, of course you can. Okay. Dear Professor Sosaboski, my ten year old son, Archie, listens to every episode of Mystery Hour via podcast. And I. I think he must be your number for one turn. I think he meant you, not me. No, I think he means you. No, he talks about your contribution to the show all the time. He just loves science. He wants to be a physicist when he grows up. It's his birthday next month, and I was wondering if there's any way you could give him a mention next time you call into the show? He would really make his day. Many thanks, Michelle. And that's from Michelle east. And I just think that's such a beautiful, nice illustration of what mystery era does. Nah. Okay, so we don't agree on that. No, I mean, because what. What Archie does, he clearly doesn't listen to any of the other 14 hours a week of radio that I slave over and put forward for public delectation on a weekly basis. He's a ten year old schoolboy. Archie, mate, happy birthday from me. And happy birthday from your favorite professor on the planet, Professor House Ozabolsky. The professor of the public understanding of science, the University of Brighton. Can I answer a question? Of course you can. Tears, they come from lacrimatory glands. And tears don't just come when you cry. The rate of production is accelerated when you cry, because, of course, your eyes are always wet, aren't they? Yeah, your eyes are always wet. And when you blink, you're spreading a new selection of tears. And they're not just water. They've got some disinfectants in them, they've got some lysosomes in them to get rid of anything that's nasty. But when you cry, one of those 13 things that don't really make sense, no one really knows why you cry. Why do you pull that face? Why do the tears come down your face? It's designed to evoke a sympathetic response from your peers. But you can say, I'm very, very sad about that without water coming out of your eyes and your face growing up. So that's, I'm quite interested in that. But tears are just basically the windscreen washes for your eyes, but where is the windscreen washer when you're not crying? And I know some of it's still in your eyes, but where is it? If you look, if you next time go to the mirror, if you just put your lower eyelid down, right at the corner nearest your nose, you'll see a little hole. And that's where it's either the train or it's the production. I can't remember which. But is there a pouch? Is there, is there a reservoir? Yes, lachometry glands. There's a kind of a reservoir. So you could cry out. You could run out of tears, could you? Yes, you can. And have you ever done that? I mean, I'm sure you're a big man, you don't cry that often, but if you cry for a long, long time, you run out of tears. So you continue to sort of screw your face thing. Yeah, you're right. And you just do the racking sobs, don't you? Yeah, that, exactly, exactly. That guy yawned. Contagious. I didn't realize crying was as well. So there is a gland full of tears and just gets. Yeah, and tears do include, I mean, people say they feel better after having a good cry. And there are a number of chemicals. Yeah, there are a number of chemicals which feel good. Chemical. It's not just water when you're crying out of grief. There are, it's a different formulation from when you're, for example, crying out of peeling onions, which is just acid causing. I used to be able to predict to within a 62nd window when I would start crying, watching quantum leap on the television. And I always used to watch it because I'd feel good after having a night because it was a happy cry. It was a sort of the time travelling character played by Scott Bakula would achieve something epic in the past and it would make me cry and I used, that's why I used to watch it, because it was so lovely. Yeah, it's very, very interesting, kind of socio social phenomena that we don't really know why we do it, but it works. It does work. And also when you cry with having peeled onions, that's a chemical irritant and all the body does is try and change the ph in your eyeball because it's getting irritated. It just floods your eye with water, effectively, to try and dilute some of the files that are being sort of evaporating from the onion and ending up in your eyes. Do you know what you should do, particularly with red onions before you put them in a salad, if you want to make them a bit less pungent? Well, James, I don't make salad. I'm just so lazy. I just go to the shop and buy a ready made. Well, that's outrageous. Don't know what's in it. It's full of chlorine. You just, just. Ainsley Harriot told me this. Have we got a sound effect for name dropping? No. Just so chop your onion as normal and then just soak it for 20 minutes in some water and then drain it and put it in your salad. And you won't get massive onion breath, but you'll still get lots of flavor. Okay, I'm looking for that because you could sound more impressed, Professor Howe. The science didn't quite stack up because they're volatile compounds. He's implying dissolving the water. Volatile compounds. Happy birthday, Archie. It's 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 33 minutes after twelve and you are listening to mystery hour, where it's all gone a bit physiological, hasn't it? We've done the tears. Does what's the scientific explanation for grey hair? Does stress make your hair go grey? And I don't know if there is a scientific explanation. Anecdotally, I think we all reckon it does. Yawning and sneezing at the same time. Is it even possible? Why are dusters yellow? And we've done the nails on a blackboard. If you missed that, you should download the podcast at LBC dot co dot Uk. Ken's in the city. Ken, question. Oh, hang on, I've got a phone line. Zero 345-606-0973 if you want to grab it with an answer to any of those questions or indeed a question of your own. Ken's in the city. Ken, question or answer? Answer? Go on. Yellow dusters. Oh, yeah, yeah. Knight Hospitaller in Malta, Knights of St John. When they were tending people with contagious diseases, they wore a long yellow shift to sort of tell everybody around them everything's got to be kept clean. Wash your hands. This has got to be washed afterwards. Don't touch. Really, so yellow, because. So yellow becomes associated with cleanliness and that's why dust is a yellow. That's why dust is a yellow. I mean, it's brilliant. But it's almost too brilliant to be true. Hmm. You can actually see pictures of hospitals wearing, but that doesn't mean. See, that's provable. But the link from the nurse's garment or the hospital as garment to the color of a modern duster, that. That, to me, is a little bit strained. Well, you associate dusters, don't you, with friendliness? So. Only sort of, actually. If you're looking for a duster, you want to clean something up, something yellow, don't you? Well, dish cloths aren't yellow. And, you know, that's different. That's washing up. It's not moist. Moist towelettes aren't yellow. No. Come on. I don't think they had them around back in days of the night hospital. I'm not sure they had dusters either. No, dusters came from the idea. What are you basing this on? Knowledge. Of what. What they wore. And then you speculate. You. You've extrapolated. I'm basing this on. I think it was one of the days I was listening at school. Right. Really? Yeah. Oh, man alive, it's been raining, so I wasn't gazing out the window or something. Where did you go to school? Because I. In Birmingham. I was going to say, your accent reminds me of home. Yes. I used to work with a lot of people from cleanup, so. Yeah. Did you? Well, I got to give you a round of applause now, you played the Kidderminster card. I still went a bit early there on the trigger there, James. A bit premature, but the Knights Hospital in Malta wore yellow garments on the ward and that's why dusters are yellow. Yeah, all right, mate. No, it's there now. It's history now. It's moved out of the realms of. Well, I hope you're right. Luke's in slough. Luke, question or answer? Question. Yours. Are there swear words in every single language? Yeah. Well, I don't know. Would anybody know that when you have to be able to speak that swear? What do you mean by a swear word? You mean a rude word rather than a blasphemy? No, don't say it. No, I didn't mean that. I didn't. Oh, well, you know, James, words like beep and beep and beep beep beep beep. No, you know what I meant. Yeah, yeah. But obviously we've got. It's what's fascinating me. So we've got words that mean the same thing, but some are really taboo. You can't say some aren't as bad and you've got the medical words for sexual organs, but. But then you've got the rude words as well. I just don't. I think you could answer no to that question because you could. You could be aware of a language in which there aren't any simply because you speak it. But I think it would be very hard to answer. Answer yes with certainty. Do you see what I mean? Yeah. It'll be interesting to know, though, because it's always sort of fascinating me, what makes a swear word. A swear word and what makes it and why. Some words, for example, we could say, you know, penis and vagina and not get into any trouble at all. Right? Absolutely, yeah. But then when you say other words, obviously some are worse than others, sort of thing. Do you know what the malay word for that, for the second of those organs is? No. The malay word for a lady's genitalia. I can't tell you because we're in an election period, so you'll have to look it up. It's 1238. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Eddie is in Orsit. Eddie, what would you like to say? It's a question, James. Go on, mate. When you lose your sight, you're blind. When you lose your hearing, your deaf. Is there any words for the loss of the other three senses? There are. So touch, smell and touch. Smell and taste. Touch, smell and taste. I think there are words you can only. I know this sounds a bit unfair, but the producer should have told you, you can only ask one of these. You can't have three. I told you. It's going to sound cruel. So what is the word for having no sense of touch, having no sense of smell or having no sense of taste? Yeah. Is there worse for the other ones? Yeah, it's true. It's a weird one that, isn't it? What made you think about it? Um. I don't know. I do a lot of thinking. Oh, that's going to take some beating as an answer. What made you think? I don't know. I do a lot of thinking. Can I borrow that, Eddie? You can. Thank you very much for that. I'll let you have all three. Someone needs to have all three answers to that. The words. I've got some sort of greeky type word stuck in my back of my mind, but, um. But not. Not. Not enough. Not close enough to the front of my mind to say them out loud. Synesthesia sinners. All right. What. What is the word for not having a sense of touch? Not having a sense of smell or not having a sense of taste. Hit the numbers. Now. You actually won't get through, but when I. When you hear me. Actually, you will. You can grab Eddie's phone line. I know. 345-606-0973 Natalie's in Epsom. Natalie. Question or answer? It's an answer. Yes. Well, what it is. The yellow dust. Oh. Oh, no. Yeah, he's wrong. Whatever he said, he's wrong. Yes. I read a lot of different things and. How much thinking. How much thinking do you do? I do a lot. All right. There's a theme emerging here. No, what? It was in the old days when everything was brought in by boat and they had all major diseases on the boats and everything, they used to pull up different colored flags, and if there was a yellow flag pulled and it was showing a yellow flag on the boat, it means it was free of disease and then they could let them straight into the pool. And that's why dusters are yellow. And that's why dusters are yellow, because it used to mean that the boats were free of disease. If I was pulling up a yellow flag so they could come straight into port. Honestly, I really don't like that. I believe the first bit. I believe the bit about the flags. Yeah, but how that. How that ends up being a duster, I do not know. Because of the disease, obviously, you're clearing up dust and all sorts of. But that's the same as the other fella with the frocks, with the nurse's outfit. So did he. It's still to do with the colored flags of the boat. The flags of the boat? Yes. If they pulled up a yellow flag and the boat was showing a yellow flag or the ship was showing a yellow flag, they could bring them straight. I'm not arguing with you about that. With you about the leap from the flag to the duster. Well, it's just in history. That's the way it goes, isn't it? It's like there's loads of different things I know loads of facts on different white. Listen, I'm not seven years old. You can't just say, well, I'm saying to you. Why is that? You say, because I say so, James, that's not good enough. No, no, no. But I'm a woman, so you must agree. Have you ever been to Kidderminster? Hello. Have you ever been to Kidderminster? No. Because the other flat wang on. Stay there, Natalie, because Derek's in Raynham and, Derek, you're in the duster business. I certainly am. Jane, are you big in dusters. Are you big into dusters, Derek? Oh, yeah, it's the big sea dusters. Love them. Right, come on, Derek. That lady is perfectly correct. Oh, shut the front door. We're always right. Yes, this was on mystery hour a couple of years ago. I remember it. I mean, you should have done, but you didn't. But it's not my fault. I'm trying to juggle. I've got four balls in the air here, Derek. And is that how you know. So you're. You're being in the dust of business has nothing to do with your knowledge on this issue? The only reason you know the answer is because of me. Nothing to do with my dust of business at all. It's purely the fact that I listen to your show. No, hang on, Natalie, we could have got it wrong last time. No, you didn't get it wrong. No, you didn't get it wrong. There's loads of stuff. I've got a book with quotes where they come from and different things and why we do certain things for different. All right, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Hang on, I just want a quick word with Derek. Derek? Yeah. Is it just dusters? All cleaning material. Thank God for that. It's 1244 you're listening to, or coming up to 1244, you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Derek didn't have anything else to say, did he? Was just ringing in to back up. Natalie should let him give himself a plug. Derek, are you still there? I'm still there. I don't know yet. What's that? I'll give you the choice. You can either give your business a free plug or you can have a round of applause. I'll have a round of applause. It's more important. There's a bloody recession on. Derek Richardson, Wickford. Richard. Questioner. Answer question, please, James. Just reflect there, people, on how valuable that round of applause is. It cost about ten grand to get that advertising through normal channels. What is your question, Richard? Elvis. Yes. He was quite famous for curling his top lip. Yes. Why can you only curl your top lip to the left and not to the right? Is that true? You try it. I'm right handed. I'm left handed. And how does yours work? It's always the left hand side. The left hand side of the lip. Only to the left. Hang on, hang on. I'm just. I'm just going to try it now. Oh. Oh, yeah. Hang on. Let's try it again. Oh, wow. Jones doesn't work to the right, Jones. Can't do it, Michael. Can't do it. Good lord, mate, you look poorly. You just look like Popeye. That was horrible. Never do that again in public. You're frightened children could turn milk sour. And have you tested this? With quite a lot of people, Richard? I've tried on a few customers, something a bit strange, but the others, that is just bizarre, isn't it? I mean, most parts of the body, you can move left and right. Yeah, right, steady on. It's a family program, Richard. But your top lip, you cannot curl to the right hand side. I was just wondering why you can't, unless there is someone listening who can, in which case the question becomes null and void. But certainly on both of our research so far, that person doesn't actually exist. No. Right, we'll get you an answer to that. I told you it was all going a bit physiological this week, didn't I? If that's the right word. So, the snow, the snarl. What's it called? The snarl? The curl of the lip. The sneeze and yawn, the simultaneous. So we all. We still need quite a lot of answers. Gray hair, stress. Is it? Zero. 345-606-0973 the curl of the lip. Why can't you curl the right side of your top lip? Zero. 345-606-0973 and can you yawn and sneeze at the same time? And the swearing as well. Are there swear words, offensive words in every single language? It's 1246. It's 1251. Let's crack on with mystery. Our Gary's in Morden. Question or answer? Gary? Yeah, I can move it to the right. Prove it. I'll twitter you as soon as I hang up. It's too late. Yeah, no, well, no, it's too late because the black cab poet. The black cab poet already has. What's that? He sent me a picture from his cab of him doing one on the left and one on the right. Oh, okay. So he can. He can have two. I'll have one, then. So we'll share. No, we will share the round of applause out equally between you, me and him. Okay, go. What are you. Oh, good point. It's too late now. Thank you, Gary. If you follow me on Twitter, Mr. James Ob, you can enjoy a couple of the people who've sent me pictures of themselves snarling Rami's in Manchester. Ramy. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer, please. Good man. Yeah, just for the swearing one. Well, yeah, I was actually in an international school overseas when I was a kid and at one point I could pretty much swear in 52 different languages. So I would say pretty much, yeah, you can actually probably swear in every language. That's very impressive. I mean, deeply impressive and well done, you. But that's not an answer to the question. That's just a boast. Well, no, he said that, can you swear in every language? And just so you rung in and say, well, I've sworn in 52 languages, but there's 52 languages. That's a pretty significant number. It's profoundly impressive, my friend. But it doesn't. It doesn't. It doesn't even address the issue of whether or not a language exists that contains no swear words. But it does, because every single language, if you get angry, if you stub your toe, you're going to swear because you stubbed your toe. Yeah, but it might not be a swear word. It might be like the equivalent of saying, oh, bubbling goldfish. Yeah. And in that language, that'd be considered a swear word. Then you don't know that, though. It's not. It's not a swear word in this language. And some. In some cultures, they might not say any words when they stub their toe. They might just go, ow. I said, you can't answer this question definitively with a yes. You can only answer it definitely with a no. Rather, you can only answer it definitively with a yes. Well, that's probably as close as I think anybody would be able to get. Precisely. And that is not definitive, is it? That's close. How many languages are there currently in common? In use? In Britain? In Britain, in the world? No idea. There you go. I'm going to go on a limb. I'm going to say to you, Rami, my friend, it's more than 52. I would have to agree, unfortunately. Probably a couple of thousand. Ergo, your ability to swear in 52 languages says absolutely nothing about the putative existence of a language in which there are no swear words. Yeah, but that skill deserves a round of applause anyway. You are so wrong, my friend, and I'm going to prove it. It's 1254. Michael is in Acton. Michael, question or answer? It's a question. I'm consumed with curiosity. Why do professional tennis players, male and female, accept three balls from the ball? Girls or boys, inspect them, throw one away, put one in their pocket and serve with the third one. Why do they do that? Why do they keep one in their pocket? Why do they have three balls? Well, you know why they keep. No, it's not. Get carried away with the questions, they keep one in their pocket because they have to do a second serve. A lot of them don't. They just can turn to a ball boy and they'll just throw them a ball. No, no, no. They want to keep it. Their rhythm, you know, if you watch them, and it's not just professional. It's not just professional tennis players. They say, the only ones I see, I employ this in the park. I always do this in the park in order to kid myself. I also do that thing where you sure that's why you're in the park? I hit the bottom of my. I hit the bottom of my trainers with my tennis racket as well, because I don't know why they do that, the professionals, but they do. I think it is probably more to do with routine and superstition than anything else. But if it is anything else, the obvious answer is yes. That would certainly explain. They squeeze all three. They squeeze all three and toss away the softest. Oh. Is there a difference between the tension on each ball? They might. Well, they must be, because they change the balls after a while, they have new balls. So they're all. I realize that because they get hit about. But when they come straight out of the box, I would have thought they're just looking for the. For the. For the best. For. They're looking for the best ball. I understand that. It's just. I never understood why they want to put one in their pocket. I've told you why they want to put one in their pockets. What? I've told you why. For the second serve without having to break their mental train. Yeah. Well, they might as well dance in a circle and pull out something else from their pocket to pray to. I don't know. It's the rules they have to keep. They have to have the second ball in their pockets, actually. The rules. Ah, that's a different ball, then. But then again, why? What? So that they can't waste time in between the first serve and the second serve and distract their opponent, in other words. Yeah. I've got a feeling that we're both talking a lot and not listening to the other person, which is fine. I heard exactly what you said. What? But it still doesn't answer the question. It's a very peculiar thing to do. But which bit? I have answered the question. That's what leads me to conclude you haven't been listening at all, James. It's not a medal. It's a round of applause. You weren't concentrating. I am concentrating. It's not a medal. Why do they need to put it in their pocket when they don't need to? It's the rules. Oh, it's the rules. Okay. I didn't know that. And you've enlightened me. Well, Jones told me. It better be true. Jones, mind. There you go. Michael. Paul's in grays. Paul. Question or answer? It's a question, James. I'm an ice cream man. When he was a little lad in Kiliman star, and you asked for a lolly in ice cream. Are you joking, mate? Have you ever met my mum? The chances of me getting one of those. Monster. You mean the kids, when they get a lolly stuck in the actual. Mister Whippy, stop. What? Waffle. If. What was it called? Well, uh, Popeye. Exactly. Was that in. Oh, good. Well, you're the blinking ice cream man. Why are you asking me? Yeah, but you're a genius. Hardly. We don't let the girls. I don't let the girls have one of those. I'm gonna get into all sorts of bother now it's appeared on. All right, we've got a minute left. Why is a popeye called a popeye in the context of sticking a lolly in your ice cream? Um, are you out yet, Paul? Is it. Are you back in business yet this season? Not yet. But listen, if the question doesn't get answered, can I carry over till next week? Only if I get a free ice cream. When I finally find your van. You buy one, you get one free. I don't know why I bother. Babs is in Wembley. Last word to you this week. Question or answer, Babs? It's an answer. Well, just to say, in Nigeria, there are no swear words. In Nigeria, there are three main languages, and they don't have any swear words. You can abuse people, but there are no swear words. What's the difference? As an abusive. Like, an abusive word you could use. But how is that not a swear word? No. A swear word is a. Is a profane word. There are no profane words. You mean a blast, a blasphemy? Something that relates to a God or something like that? No, just any words. If you want to. They borrow words from west. When you want to. They borrow western words, basically, and add it into the language. So they might caught. They might. They might call you a bleep, but the bleep would be a western word. There's no actual. What other languages? In Nigeria, there's three main languages. There's Ibo, Ibo, houser and Yoruba. Ibohouse and Yoruba. And none of them contain in sort of the most basic of terms. None of them contain rude words? Not really, no, not really. Oh, it's good enough for me. Go on. That's it for another week. We'll be back tomorrow. But in terms of mystery, of course we'll be back tomorrow morning from ten. This is LBC. I am James O'Brien and the next voice you will hear belongs to sheila folk.