How and why do our taste buds mature?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien. Mystery has upon us already. What joy, what rapture. Although every hour feels a little bit like mystery hour, as the Brexit top continues to click, you are, for the record, not allowed to answer questions about, for example, science by pointing out that we won the second world war. So there is a difference between other hours that appear mysterious and this hour of mysteries as well. Neither are you allowed to answer questions about complicated matters of engineering by simply claiming that it's our destiny. I don't know if that was a necessary clarification, but it was, I hope, a helpful one. Three minutes after twelve is the time. Phone lines are open. You know the number zero 345-606-0973 this is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You ring in with a question. It can be silly, it can be serious. We don't really have preference on that, and someone else will then ring in with an answer, and that's when we know how good the question was. Quite often, I think a question is rubbish until the answer arrives, at which point I have a small slither of humble pie and acknowledge that the question was actually rather good. That happens more often than I'm comfortable with, to be brutally honest with you. Similarly, sometimes I think a question's really good, someone rings in to answer it and we realise the question was actually really stupid, or at least obvious and not really a mystery in the clearest sense of the word. Four minutes after twelve is the time I am. Can I put the David Davis question on the board or not? No, that would just be polluting the purity of mystery. It doesn't have to be Brexit free. And you could do it in a way that's not Brexit y. What does JCB get off David Davis in return for 3000 pounds an hour? What will David Davis be doing? Footman. Now, you can only answer that if you are JCB. If you are Mister Bamford himself. I think we went to the same school, so that should help. That should help. Grease the wheels, give the old school tie. And you will, Sir Anthony. You'll get a Ray Liotta if you ring in. And tell us what. So only Sir Anthony Bamford is allowed to answer the mystery of what does David Davis provide for 3000 pounds an hour? And if you do ring in, we can swap a few anecdotes about ampleforth, and then I'll give you a Ray Liotta. How does that sound. Yeah. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Where are we going to go first? Are we going somewhere first? We're going to take David in Forest Hill. David, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, David. Right, I've just driven through Richmond park, which is a lovely park with all the deer running around. It's a lovely part and it's good. It is one of my favourites. At the gate, I saw a note saying that the park will be closed from the first of Monday in February from six till eight. Eight o'clock at night, I presume. Now, the reason. The reason is it is I'll ask, where is this? Or where is this all going to end and go? Yes. The product that I'm going to be talking about, they sell it and it's a cull. They sell the venison to butchers. I answered your question before you've asked it. Round of applause for me. Thank you very much. Is that. That is what you're going to ask. Where does all the venison go after they've culled the deer? In Richmond park? Yeah, because Queen can't take all of them. No lunch. But where? Where? That's not what you rang. I mean, you can find out that bit for yourself. I'll get. I'll take a call because I've taken a premature applause. I was trying to think of a word for applause that rhymed with speculation, but I couldn't, so I've taken a premature appreciation. Boom. Give me another round of applause. No, don't. I'm joking. I've taken a premature appreciation with that round of applause. David. So I leave the question on the board and say, where can David buy Richmond park venison? Yeah. Yeah. That's what you really want to know. I can hear you salivating from here. You want to get your hands on some of those haunches. You want a nice haunch to get your teeth into, do you not? Well, I've just passed a herd of young there and it must be at least 200 there. They won't be killing. I don't know which ones they kill, actually. It's usually the older ones, but, I mean, maybe it's. Maybe I've got that completely wrong and my round of applause will be drawn and I'll have to apologize for my premature appreciation. Where can David buy some Richmond park? Cold venison Zero. 345-606-0973 George is in Swansea. George, question or answer? It's question carry on. What I want to know is the hair on your head, if you shave it off, it will grow and grow and grow and grow until basically forever. But if you shave off, say, your eyebrows or, excuse me, your pubic hair. Pardon? It will only grow to a certain length. How do you know? Well, and they've only grown to a certain, they've only grown about an inch and a half. Well, no one knows what you're talking about. That because the producers had a fit of prudishness and apparently has dumped the last 10 seconds of what you said. So you shaved off your pubic hair? I have done in the past, yeah. Okay. And it done. It grows back to the same length that it was before? Yes, it does. But I'm confident the answer is that it falls out. It falls out? Yeah. Okay. But how, in that case, does it know to fall out? Well, that you can. Hair on your head. Yeah. Okay. I've got half an answer in my head. But it's not gonna, it's not gonna satisfy you. The answer will have to be, it's something to do with your hair on your legs, that it reaches a certain length and it falls out and grows again. But you'll say, why doesn't that happen to the hair on your head? And that's the bit where I can't remember my answer. So thank you for the personal details, George. If any people want me to put in touch with you, I'll be happy to provide that service. Kevin, meanwhile, is in Chelsea. Kevin, question or answer? Question, please carry on. I don't, just for the record, no personal information, please. Okay. I was just wondering when your tastes change, people say your taste buds have changed. Yes. What exactly happens biologically? You mean if you didn't like marzipan as a child, and then you try it as a teenager and it turns out you did like it after all. Well, yeah. Or that you've developed a developed alike. Yeah. Like I've developed a recent affinity for olive. And before, I really hated olive. Great example. That's a really good example. I I would have, I'd have run a mile from an anchovy as a younger man, but these days I can't get enough of them. Anchovies? Hmm. Mm hmm. They're disgusting. What, what sort of a child are you? Anchovies. Anchovies. When did you last try an anchovy? Because if you've, if you've discovered a relatively new affection for olives, I think the anchovy might, might be just behind the olive. They're quite similar, perhaps, are they? Well, my favorite. My favorite. My favorite sort of salty things would be capers, olives and anchovies. Capers aren't bad, although they have to go with something. You can't have a caper on it. No. Okay. I mean, a spoonful of capers. You can have an olive on your own. I prefer mine in a martini. Actually, I think that's the best place for an olive, but I shall find out for you. Do our taste buds change? What's the posh word for physically, biologically? Physiognomically? Just use a technical term. Yes, thank you. Does very good at doing that. Well, I'm very good at sounding smart. Yes, I saw the veiled insult behind your compliment there. I would like to know whether or not our taste buds change in a technical way as we get older. Which would explain why Cavern has recently discovered an affinity for olives, having previously considered them to be the foodstuff of Beelzebub. Andrew is in Chelsea as well. That's two calls from Chelsea. There's practically a reality television series unfolding before our very ears. Andrew, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's an answer to the game in Richmond park. Carry on, mate. I grew up in Richmond. A very good friend of mine from school was the son of a gamekeeper in Richmond park. And the annual cull used to. He was actually used to manage it and take part and actually carry out culling himself as well. This is a father, not my friend. Yes. The deer or the venison was distributed amongst the estate workers and friends of the estate. Is that all? None of it was sold. Because they don't kill that many. Not that I'm aware of. I have to give back my round of applause. That's the problem with premature appreciation. It's ultimately so unsatisfying for everybody involved. Thank you. Very welcome. Round of applause for Andrew. Qualifications clear? Yeah. Well done. So they just distribute among the gank you. So if David wanted to get hold of some, he'd have to get in touch with you and get the number for your old mate and hope that his dad still had the contacts and that he'd be able to sort him out. A little bit of venison on the. On the. James. If he's dead with us, we'll need Marjorie Stokes to try and contact him. I doubt it. So David's coming up 35 years ago. Fair enough. It's going to be a while, David, mate, until you can get your hands on those juicy haunches. But I shall continue to try to find some for you. Dave's in Slough. Question or answer, Dave? Question, please, James, carry on. When Big Ben chimes, how far away can you hear it? It depends on the weather. Well, of course I know that, but let's rephrase the question. What's the furthest away anyone's ever heard big? How would you even prove it? Well, I don't know. Didn't they used to say something about the bow bells? If you could hear that you was in the east end, if you were born within the sound of bow bells, you were a proper cockney. So Big Ben's obviously a dance, like, larger. So how much further can you hear it? I like it. I don't know that we'll get you an answer, but I like the question. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. What's the furthest away? You can hear the big Ben chimes and I'll take a kind of tradition on that. You know, like the bowbells and the cockanese. Do our taste buds change physiognomically? Is that the word I was looking for as we age to explain why things that we thought were yucky when we were young, we can find quite delicious as we get older. And a great example from cabin, actually, because olives very squarely fall into that category for a lot of people. Why does hair that's not on our head grow infinitely? Why does hair on your legs or in your nether regions only ever reach a certain length? I know that it then falls out and grows again. But there's a bit about the hair on your head that adds to that question. And the other one was the venison. And so we still want to know whether or not. Why. Have I written down George? I thought his name was David. Who asked the question about the venison guys? It's scintillating. Scintillating radio. Oh. George was the one with the interesting personal hygiene habits. All right, well, we don't need to go there again. 1214 is the time. Stan's in Bethnal Green. Question or answer? Stan? Stan. Where's Stan? Chris is in Helensburgh. Question or answer? Chris questions, please. James. Harry on great my review of your work, by the way. Thank you for everything you do. So, my fiance, I have just recently moved to Scotland and we enjoy a good walk on the hills. But whenever we go walking. When you're seeking asylum there before Brexit, is that the idea? Because I've started swatting up on rabbi burns in case they introduce a test to get overboard, I couldn't possibly confirm or deny. So we enjoyed walk. But in Scotland it's a tad windier and sometimes colder than down south. In England, where we're from, when we walk in, she always, when it's windy, starts crying. Her eyes water and tears streamed down her face. But I never have the same experience and I just wanted to know the science behind that. Are either of you originally scottish? No. No, we're both English. Oh. Because I thought if you were originally scottish, it might just be because you were made in Scotland from garters. No, no, I'm from Cromwell, so it can be opposite end of the country. I think that, to put this delicately, I think that your fiance is normal. Are you suggesting I'm abnormal, then? Yes. I think that your eyes should water in the cold because it kind of keeps them lubricated and stops from drying out as you've got a strong wind in your face. Are you able to get a definitive on that? I'm not, no. I think it's kind of obvious, but often when I say that on the radio, I end up feeling a little bit ridiculous ten minutes later. I'd love to trust you, but we're both admirers of mystery and listen to it religiously, so we've got to go definitive. We have got to go definitive, if that's all right. So why do Chris's fiance's eyes water in the cold and mine don't? That's an interesting element, but I'm worried about the answer to that. What if it's medical and a doctor rings in? Do you want me to just do it on air or do you want me to discreetly contact you after the program? No, I think on air is best. Yeah. So do I. Cool. Bring it, Chris. Thank you. Thank you for the kind word the best of James O'Brien. Remind me, because I think we have had this before, but there's no harm in revisiting occasional questions. Remind me why the hair on your head grows forever, whereas the hair everywhere else on your body reaches a certain length, falls out, then grows again. Is there a physiognomical change to your taste buds as you get older? That would explain why things you didn't like as a child are rather toothsome as an adult. How far away from Big Ben can you hear the chimes of said bell? Zero 345-606-0973 and why do our eyes water in the cold? And or is there any problem in place for people whose eyes don't water in the cold? Okay, any of those, Marty is in Belfast. Question or answer, Marty. It's a question, James. Carry on, Marty. Okay. On the likes of sky boxes and virgin boxers, you can pause live tv. You can. But you cannot pause live radio. And my question is, why not? What would I do? No, my question is, why can you not pause? But if you paused it, what would I do while you were pausing it? You sit there and hold your breath. Exactly. I only found this out this morning. To my shock and horror. I was listening to the first hour of your show and I had to. On the tv? Yeah, I had to take a call, so I went to press pause and it just came up and says, pause. Not available. Well, it's because. Yeah, but it's because. I mean, what would I do while you. While you'd paused, me and all the other people who haven't paused me would still be expecting a radio show. And if you paused it? Then I'd have to stop talking. Why does it work for pausing live tv, then? Don't spoil my joke, Marty. No, I want to. Don't spoil my joke. All right. I have my morning spoiled because I couldn't. Don't spoil my flannel, Brian. My Flann O'Brien style flirtation with surrealism. I think. I think the answer is you can actually pause it on some machines now and it's just not a priority or popular enough for them to have introduced it to your tv box. It's not that old. No, I know, but it's just not a thing that people particularly care about. Podcasts, of course, have done away with the need of what you describe because a podcast is recorded and therefore easily pauseable. But live radio. Some dabs have a pause function, but most don't. So I presume it's a cost stroke priority issue. That's much more boring than my original. It's much more boring than my original answer, isn't it? Try it now. God. Press pause. I am right. You're usually right. I wrote a book about it. Pause now and let's see what happens. I'm not. I'm not listening on the tv. Back in my office again. Press rewind. Thank you, Marty. I think we've had it before, but also I've seen a dab where you can pause it on. It's when they actually introduce a pause button for radio presenters when they're not on air. That's when misses O'Brien will be buying shares. Another mark. You're joking with me now. We've just gone from Chelsea to Chelsea and now we're going from Marty to Marty. So two Marty's. You wait all your life for one Marty to come along, and then there's two of them. This one's in woking. Question or answer, Marty. Hi, there. Yeah, just a question. Good. They recommend opening a bottle of red wine. Yes. An hour or so before you drink it. They do? To make it. To make it taste better. What's the gas that comes out? It's more to do with bringing it up to room temperature, isn't it? Opening it early than to release a gas? I thought, is it. It's a chemical thing rather than a physical thing. You need a red wine at room temperature, of course. Yes, but I think there's a gas that you're supposed to tape the top off now. Maybe. I don't know. I just. I've been laboring under that illusion all my life. There's a flat I used to live in on Gloucester Road that had. And a most astonishing ceiling decoration that I used to look at and think, what the hell is that? And then I asked the landlord, and it turned out a previous tenant had tried to heat up a bottle of red wine on the electric, on the. On the stove, without taking the cork out. And then he'd forgotten it was there. And so this astonishing ceiling. I mean, it was quite a. Obviously, the landlord hadn't spent a lot of money on doing the flat up, but that was. Ever since that moment, I've always thought that you took the cork off just to bring it up to room temperature. But we'll find out. I've got quite a lot of eno file callers, so hopefully one of them will be able to help us out. And speaking of eno files, I've forgotten to share that thing about Susie Dent, haven't I? Will you remind me to do it before I go? Ipsedixitism. Ipsedixitism. It kind of explains a lot of Brexiter rhetoric. It's a beautiful word. Johan is in Bromley. Johann, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Johann. Yeah, I'm wondering, when you go to supermarkets like Morrison's, Tesco's or Sainsbury's, you can always buy organic chicken breast, but they never sell organic chicken thighs or any other part of the chicken that is organic. You can buy free range chicken breast and you can buy free range chicken thighs, but never organic. And I was the other organic part of the chicken. How hard have you looked? Pretty hard. I sort of go shopping practically every other day because I work from home and I don't. I know that and, I mean, I'm pretty sure. Well, your colleague just told me that you can get it at Ocado and some farm shops. Yes, but I was about to say ocado because that's. Yeah, but I just don't believe that ocado buys up all the organic chicken side. So even if it's true that you can find it in some shops, how come you can't find it in the. I mean, it'll be demand. Will it? I suppose if you buy. I think there's demand because it's usually the cheaper cut of the chicken. And people who like to buy organic food might prefer to have the slice instead of the breast. No, I thought that the people who buy organic food are usually quite rarefied consumers and so they're more likely to go for the more expensive cuts and the cheaper cuts. I'll put the question on the board, but you can definitely buy it in Waitrose and Ocado and of course, Daylesford, which is owned by Sir Anthony Bamford's wife. No, I get the question and I'm going to put it on the board. But just. Just to clarify, you can buy them, but just not on the same scale that you can buy the organic breasts, whereas you would imagine that for every two organic breasts, you had at least two organic thighs, unless you were. That's what I think. Yeah. They go into industrial food production. Yeah. You're on expensive. You're on zero. 345-606-0973 is a number to call. 1226 is the time Matt is in. Worthing. Matt, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a. It's a question, please. But it's actually changed twice since I've been. I originally phoned in with one question, which I answered in my own mind while I was waiting. And then I heard another question, which I had an answer for. Right. But I can't answer that because I'm not qualified, apparently. So now I've got another question. Have you cleared this with. Have you cleared. Have you cleared this with the team? I have, yes. Right. Okay. I don't need your autobiography before you get an interesting thing that I'm on my third option in one call, but there'll be people listening to this who are now furious that they've tried to get through and calm because you're sitting there having some sort of psycho drama blabbering on. I know. Wang wanging is my word, because it makes the producer panic. I'll crack on now. Thank you. Okay, right, so the question is, how deep does a body have to be buried before a corpse sniffing dog cannot detect it? Mate, what have you done? I've not done anything. Surely this is covered by ofcom. We can't start giving advice on how deep you have to bury a body to a well. No. Someone said to me once we were digging the foundation for my extension, and my friend who was driving the mini digger driver said, do you know a body has to be buried? And I can't remember what the actual answer was or if it was actually true. So it's something that sort of stuck in my mind. I thought, I wonder if that's true. I'll keep him on the line. You get the police on it. So. Yeah. What was that? How deep does a body have to be buried before a cadaver sniffing dog can? Actually, I'm just. Just checking my notes here. It's Matt, is it? Yeah, it's Matt. Matt in Worthing. Okay, where are you? Are you at home at the moment, Matt? I am. I'm in the garden with the shovel with the mother in law. I will try and get you an answer to your question. This could all backfire horribly if it turns out that he is currently looking to dispose of a cadaver. 1227 is the time. I mean, there must be a depth, wouldn't there? Otherwise they'd go bonkers every time they went near a graveyard. Zero. 345-606-0973 a slightly morbid inquiry. I apologize if that's offended your delicate sensibilities, but we've already explored the delicacy of some people's sensibilities on this. On today's mystery hour, I need to know why or how far away from Big Ben you can hear its chimes the furthest, obviously. Ideally, why do our eyes water in the cold? And is it a problem when they don't? Is there a chemical when you uncork a red or unscrew a red these days when you. And the idea is you're supposed to let it breathe. That's the phrase that they use, isn't it? You should let a red wine breathe before you serve it. Does that change the chemical construction of the wine? Because I'd always thought it was simply a temperature issue. Why can't you find organic chicken thighs as readily as you can find organic chicken breasts? And do our taste buds change also, the question about hair growth that offended the producer so much. Sarah is in Barbican. Sarah, question or answer? Answer. Okay, carry on. Yeah, I'm not actually in Barbican. I'm at Moorfield hospital. Well, lo and behold, I'm going to take a punt on what question it is that you want to answer. In that case, because you missed a word out. It's Moorfield's eye hospital. Yes. So, watering eyes. Yeah, I've just been discussing this with the doctor, this actual subject. Are you there as a patient or are you there as a practitioner? As a patient. Oh, good grief. Okay, carry on. Yeah, I've just had a lens implant. And you heard, mister. So you asked yourself, your doctor today what the answer was to the question, or just by coincidence you were talking about? No, it's just by coincidence I was listening in the waiting room and he'd actually asked me to book into the dry eye clinic. It's when your eyes are dry, they're little glands underneath in the lower lid of your eye called meibaunian glands. Yes. And they block women who use makeup remover and face cream and things like that. They get blocked up and then the tears can't escape. So that's why your eyes dream, they overflow. Whereas if they've been cleaned, they would be absorbed. So who's got the blocked ducts here, Chris, whose eyes don't water in the cold weather? Or his fiance? Whose eyes do? Your fiance? It's hers. It's when the eyes overflowed. Dry eyes. No, that's a different thing. Because I was at the western eye hospital a lot last year, and I don't think. I think the doctor misunderstood the question. Because your eyes need to water in circumstances to keep them clean and flowing. Dry eye. You can buy drops in boots for dry eye syndrome because the dry eye is caused by these glands being the dry eye is. But if your eyes are watering healthily in cold weather, it's not. What you're describing is when eyes perhaps overflow or water when there is no meteorological or environmental explanation for it. If you're walking into a biting wind, your eyes should water. No, he says, no, he said they should drain. They shouldn't be watering down your face. They should be drained properly. Okay, well, I find myself in breaking one of my own golden rules here, and I'm actually arguing with an expert, albeit via you. So there could be. There could be something lost in transit. But it makes more sense. Yeah. At Moss hills, they have what's called a dry ice bar. Yes. You go in and have all the glands squeezed, and then you don't have that problem anymore. And then your eyes will water in a more manageable and healthy way. They won't stop watering because you need your eyes to water to keep them clean and moist. Yeah. And it's more likely that Chris's fiance wears a lot of makeup than it is that Chris does. Not making any generalizations or observations? Well, I am making a generalization, but I'm not making any judgment by that. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's more the product that you use to remove your makeup. It's that which is oily and it blocks them. Are you better now? Did the opera, was the operation a success? Was your treatment? It was great. Yeah, it's. I can see it's amazing. Fantastic. So remind me of Eddie Murphy there in the opening scenes of trading places. Round of applause for Sarah, please. The best of James O'Brien. This is me doing HR, all right? This is me doing personnel issues. I'm going to read out a text. Pay attention, all of you. I have the exact answer in capital letters for the wine question and someone just hung up on me. And I have perfect qualifications, all of which is fair criticism, but it's the last two words of this text that I love the most. Well done. It says, or she says, well done, guys. Well done. Perfect qualifications and you hung up. Herman is German. No, he's not. He's in Cheltenham, in Gloucestershire. Question or answer, Herman? An answer, please. Carry on. You are german. You are german, aren't you? I'm both, yes. Yes. Herman and German. I know I spoke before. I've missed you, Herman. Where have you been? Oh, I've been. It's a long story. But you're back now, that's the main thing. Yeah. Do you still have your ship and company? Super ships, yes, super ships is up and running. Well, I say up and running. We don't actually have any ships yet, but we will be operating from Great Yarmouth to Ostend under Chris Grayling's aegis once we get our 14 million pounds. I have a business idea for you. Oh, go on. Watch that. Then you can go and fetch red double decker buses. Yes. Paint 350 million on the side. Yes. Scrap them and sell them and deliver them as religious relics to 17 million captive customers. I like it. I don't know. We get enough buses, but we could chop them up, we could melt them down and turn them into sort of memorabilia. Brexit memorabilia, if you don't know what Herman's talking about. Super ships dot co dot UK comma is my big shipping company. That is, we don't have ships, but we deliver from Great Yarmouth to our stand using the power of belief back to the chickens, Herman. It really comes down to consumer tastes and it's really cultural. In the UK, you have the taste for lean cuts, which is a breast. Yes. And in the continent, they prefer the legs, which are fattier and tastier. More for a stew ragu. You just need to open a recipe book of french cuisine. And so it is just demand. I mean, this is what I thought. But I suspect the fellow who asked the question was hoping for a more complicated answer, so. And given the ease with which free trade agreements allow us to import and export agricultural products like chickens, you flog. You flog your breasts in blighty and you flog your thighs. In France. Precisely. For example, in Mexico, the US, you have exactly the same pattern. The US exports all the thighs and the legs, and the Mexicans export the breasts. Qualifications? Well, I have two. One, I'm a cook. Yes. And the other one, I'm an economist, studies trade patterns. Can't say fairer than that. How do you feel about, as an economist who studies trade patterns, how are you feeling about Brexit? But no, that'll do. That's the answer. Round of applause for Herman. God bless you, too, and all who sail in you. David's in bow. David, question or answer? There's a question. Please, James, carry on, mate. You know, in the olden days, they used to have like, a mileage, a mileage stone thing on the side of the country road. The mileage stone thing. I think they called it a milestone. That's it. Yeah, carry on. I saw one yesterday. I saw one yesterday. I kid you. Yeah, because balcony shirts. Scott, who runs balcony shirts up in Uxbridge, is always on my mind. And I was driving. I was driving through Ealing yesterday, and on Ealing common, right next to the road, there's a. There's a sign that says London something miles that way and Uxbridge 9 miles that way. And I thought, crikey, I'm only 9 miles away from Oxbridge. I never realized that before. It's an old fashioned milestone. There you go. Anyway, how did they. What, what did they use to measure the mileage as opposed. What do they use now? I suppose they use some. Something. How much is a mile? No, it's quite a good question, actually. Is it? They probably do it in cars or vehicles, don't they? They probably measure it in something like that, maybe. What did they use? They couldn't use, like, an enormous ruler to measure e link to uxprint or tape measure? No. And also, it's not as the crow flies either. Is it because there might be some corners and some curves in the road? You couldn't use your feet either. You know, when you walk with your feet long time, you know, like a referee does. Ten yards away. Exactly. Does that funny walk, doesn't he? You couldn't do that from Slough to London. No. Well, I don't think you could. But stranger things have happened. I did. We bet the post office were involved in this when they used to deliver. I bet that has something to do with it. Possibly, but I'll find that's a lovely question. I like stuff about. I like stuff about the olden days. Yeah, I was there, mate. Oh, three, four. My children would argue you were there, Daddy. Zero. 345-606-0973 my youngest said to me with a straight face over Christmas, she said, when you were young. And I always think, this is going to be sweet and nice. When you were young, Dad. I go, oh, this will be nice. Come and sit on my knee. Let's put another log on the fire. She goes, when you were young, did you have a penny farthing? Gordon's in Hollow. Gordon, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Gordon. Yeah, it's a birthday. Grave. The doubts. Mister grave has to be six foot. Is that the industry standard? Minimum six foot, otherwise. And presumably it's not really cadaver dogs that they worry about, it's more foxes and things like that. Yeah, yeah. For digging down qualifications. Pardon? Oh, he's gone. Did he say gravedigger? Can we get him back? He deserves a round of applause. And I might inflict some Hamlet quotes on him as well. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can answer any of the questions on the board, or indeed, if you've got one of your own that is in need of an answer. But I need answers on the taste buds question, the hair growth question, the big Ben question, the red wine question. I enjoyed Herman's answer to the organic chicken thighs question. Where are we going next? Holland Park. James is in Holland park. Question or answer, James. That's an answer. Carry on. So I'm actually ringing up regarding the watering of the eyes and the wind. Oh, yes. Because the previous caller wasn't quite correct. I felt that something had been lost in translation from what the doctor told her to what she told me. But I'm far too polite to my callers to haul them up on things like that, as you know, James. So the important thing for people to understand is that the tears are produced by the lacrimal gland, and they're swept across the surface of the eye to keep it lubricated, and they're drained. The normal drainage is through two small little holes called the puncti. That's correct. And those puncti are at the inner part of the eye and upper and a lower. They then drain through what's called canaliculi into a lacrimal sac and then a nasolacrimal duct into the nose. Fantastic. So when it's windy and everybody has a different size of those puncti and similarly diameter of that duct, so they have different speeds and capabilities of dealing with excess tears. Yes. When it's windy, the wind hits the ocular surface and essentially it causes evaporation of the normal tears, and that induces more tears to be secreted by the eye and the lacrimal gland. So in some people, they can't cope with that increased secretion. So it overflows from the normal drainage system and it leaks out over the lids onto the cheek. So Chris is probably the one in. He's in better neck than his fiance, not the other way around, because what I overlooked in the original question was the overflowing and the tearing down the cheeks. That's not normal. Your eyes should water more in cold weather, but not to the degree that it looks like you're crying. Yeah, it depends. I mean, some people who are normal in normal conditions may have a little bit of water, and that can be completely normal. But obviously, we deal with people who end up with tears streaming down their cheeks when they have, for example, blocked nasolacrimal ducts. In a normal situation, should his fiance see a doctor, see an ophthalmologist? Ophthalmologist. Well, it depends how much it's troubling her. But if it's causing her a lot of problem in the wind, then, yes, she could get assessed and see how she's getting on qualifications? I'm an ophthalmologist. Eye surgeon. Eye surgeon? Yeah. You didn't do me, did you, at the Western Eye hospital last year? No, I didn't, actually. I live in Holland park. I'm an eye surgeon. Fair enough. Do we get a radiotop? I mean. No, there's lots of eye surgeons. I'll give you a very, very shiny round of applause. Thank you, Jane. Thank you very much. Great lingo as well. Big fans of lingo on mystery hour. In fact, I suspect you could probably get an answer past me just by using the lingo. But that was clearly the correct answer, and I've realized it's not a million miles away from what I used to have. Oh, hang on, Gordon's back. Gordon, what are your qualifications for that question about graves? Yeah, I was a grave digger for four years. You're no longer a grave. You're no longer a grave digger. No, I'm a lordly driver now. It's got to be a bit warmer. Wouldn't want to be digging. Wouldn't want to be ticking graves in this way, though. Give Gordon a round of applause. I'm not going to do it. I've done enough. I'm not going to look for any sort of grave digger related comedy. The best of James O'Brien. If we've got a clear run on answers now, we're going to be able to tick them all off like. Like ducks in a row. Let's find out. Mystery hour is nearing its conclusion. Jimmy is in Torquay. Basil Fawlty, country. Jimmy, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on, mate. It's about the wine. Oh, yes. Basically, as part of the fermentation process, CO2 is given off and this sits on top of the wine in the bottle and actually helps to preserve it. If you remember, you're also told to drink a bottle of wine, sort of like in one session, and not leave it overnight. Unless you get one of those pumps where you can suck out all of the gas in the. All of the oxygen. Yeah. Because it will oxidize. That's right. Exactly right. And that's gas that comes out. It's exactly the same with real ale as well. So does it need a. Does it change? So I take the cork off and I leave it for an hour. That's to make sure that all of the carbon dioxide dissipates. Is it? Well, yeah, but your wine's going to start to go off as well. When? When will it start going off? Well, as soon as the corks out. So that. So you shouldn't let it breathe? No. Ever? No. And the reason why people think you are supposed to let it breathe is because it will bring it up to room temperature, but you should take it out from your cellar. I'm just keeping in touch with all of my listeners. Now, you bring your wine up from your cellar long before you serve it, so it reaches room temperature, but if you've brought it up from your cellar laterally or recently, then it became an idea, you'd be much better off decanting the thing in the first place. If you want to sort of get rid of shell off, get rid of all the CO2 and. But. So that whole thing about letting red wine breathe is a myth. Of course it is, yeah. Qualification. You get a member of the Burton Guild of Master Sullivan. They used to run pubs. I'll do. You should have just said Ena file. But the master Sullivan Guild of Burton Guild. Salomon, not Sullivan. They've written Salomon on the screen. Honestly. There's going to be some p 45 flying around after the program today. The pube gate. There's going to be all sorts of. I know, mate. Imagine. So Seloman, not Master Sullivan. Who do you think Master Sullivan was? It's the guild of Master Celliman. Where did it come from? The myth then, that you should let the wine breathe. Do we know? I have absolutely no idea. But why do you think you get boxed wines? You know, you can buy them in the supermarket. They work on a gravity principle. Yes. So the gas goes up, not down. Absolutely. So that's why you can keep a boxed wine. We found a place in Paris knocking out really good quality wine in boxes and thought that that might be a business opportunity. I've got a mate who's in that line of work and he looked into it and it was. I can't remember what the reason was. It was something to do with it. Wouldn't have been worth his while because of duty or something like that. But they. But then the idea that if wine is in a box, it must be cheap wine is wrong. It's just a british condition. Absolutely, yeah, yeah, yeah. Jimmy. Screw tops and corks. Well, screw tops these days. It's hard to find one that isn't even a very good wine. Let's give Jimmy a round of applause. Thank you very much. Are you still in the catering trade down in Torquay? No, I'm a postman now. I'm actually up in Bridgewater. There we go. Talkies in the news for having a brilliant. Having the best guest house in the country, which marks quite a departure from the days of Basil and Sybil. Richard, speaking of guest houses is in Blackpool. God, I'm on form today. Richard, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, mate. Yeah. Relation to the bodies and graves and how long, how deep would have to be before a dog would find it. I love the idea of someone who's just tuned in expecting me to be wanging on about Brexit or not knowing really what this radio station is about. I go, so here we are. Here's a. Yeah. Anyway, well, that thing about how deep you have to bury a body so that it doesn't get dug up by dogs. Go on, Richard. Yeah, well, what's the question before it's dug up by dogs or found by foxes or. Well, that was me, the original questioner, who was phoning from his garden with a shovel in his hand, wanted to know how deep he would have to bury a body to avoid it being detected by a cavity cadaver dog. And Gordon rang in from an undertaker's perspective and explained that they have to bury up to 6ft. And I said, you, as an undertaker, as a grave digger, rather, are going to be more worried about foxes than you are about police dogs. So in a way, we're trying to keep all of these plates spinning. Yeah, sure. So for an undertaker's perspective, six foot is probably about right, you know, fox is not going to come along, dig the body up. And however, if you are looking to detect a hidden body or a buried body, and technically there is no death. Really? Yeah. If the way that we train dogs to find bodies, cadaver dogs, we use a probe. So we probe the ground to a given depth. How deep does the probe go? Well, how long. How long is. How long's a probe? I see what you mean. It's not. It's not. Yeah. Yeah. And technically, if I was to bury a body 20ft down and I had a 2018 foot probe that was able to get down to the area where the body had sort of. It sounds a bit gross, but where the body would sort of decompose and leak into this surrounding. So the probe would pick up stuff? Yeah. Well, the hole that you would. That you would vent the ground with. I think I know the answer to my probe in. You stick the probe and give it a wriggle round and the dog would then smell the hole. So if the probe was 20 foot long, it would. The dog would smell about 20 foot in the ground. Blimey. Bad news for Chris, then. Terrible qualifications. I'm a face dog instructor. And that involved. Because we always think of police dogs being on riot duty and stuff like that. But that involves. That involves some of this kind of work as well, does it? Absolutely, yeah. So I train explosives. And how long have you been listening to the program today? 20 minutes. And previous to today? Quite a bit. Do you remember Jones, the engineer, a couple of years ago, who's a key member of my team? Were you listening back then? No, I don't think so. His dad used to do what you do. I just. It's a chance you might have known him because there can't be that many police dog trainers around the country, can there? I don't think there's that many now. Probably a couple of hundred. Yeah. Round of applause. It is. No, lovely answer. Thank you. Round of applause for it. Thank you, mate. Luke's in pens. Question or answer, Luke? It's unanswered. But I'm in Cambridge. Are you? I'm not surprised. You wanted to clarify that. Nothing good comes from Penn. Carry on. Well, how did you end up in pens? Why have we got pens on the screen? It must be my mumbling. Anyway, it's not a problem. Milestones. Yes. May, 1731. William Warren, a professor of one of the Cambridge colleges, set out from great St Mary's church with a chain of a length which I can't quite remember the exact length of, but him and an assistant lugged this thing and stretched out and between them they measured out the first set of milestones, I think. Post roman era. Beautiful country, beautiful answer. 1731 qualifications. I've just been looking into roads and transport networks and toll houses and stuff. As part of your academic studies or. No private interest. Just find it. Have you seen. Do you know about the hay on my toll? No. Oh, you should look into that. It's still there. I think someone bought it recently. There's a tiny little toll bridge just on the way into hay on my coming near the welsh borders and it still operates. I mean, I nearly made me late for an appointment earlier this, just before Christmas, because I took the wrong route. I looked at the sat nav and I thought, we can carry on this road and go left further up. I'll tell you what, I'm knocking it out of the park today. Sheila Fogarty winning awards left, right and centre with this kind of high level current affairs commentary. And then I got to this toll in Hay on Wye and I didn't have 50 p to get through it. I know. Anyway, you get a round of applause. Thank you. Angelo's in Dublin. Angelo, question or answer? Hi, I've got an answer for the wine one, because I don't believe the last caller. No, I think he was wrong as well. But we were getting on so well and he was in Torquay and he was called Jimmy. And I'm in such a good mood, I just thought I'd let it slide. Luckily, you're here to correct him. I like to think so, yeah. Basically, you that you let the wine breathe, to let air and oxygen come into the wine. That's why you can buy these. The cancer stroke aerators. Yes, exactly. And a bit of air getting into the wine improves the taste of it because I think the oxidation enhances the tannins and so on. And it's a brief period because, as he did point out, once it. There's a peak of oxidation, after which the wine starts tasting vinegary and goes off. Yeah, I mean, not all wines, not all red wines. You have to drink at room temperature. If you go to some parts of Spain, they. They have fridges for the red wine. I personally quite like a pinot noir that's, um. That's been lightly chilled if I'm in the right mood and I'm sitting on the. On the veranda. But that is a conversation for a different day. Qualifications? Angelo? I'm a fan of red wine and I have a PhD in biochemistry. I'd have done it the other way around. Yeah, but personally. But it's still. Either way, drinking trumps it. I thought he might be right either way, as either Barney's in Telford. Barney. Question or answer? Hello? It's an answer. Carry on. The taste buds question. The answer is a word called a gusia, which is the loss of taste buds over a period of time. As you age, as you get older, your taste buds become less sensitive and you start to prefer stronger tasting. Well, I never. Of course, I was thinking of it the other way around. I was thinking as you matured, your taste buds got better, which is why you like stuff. But it's the opposite. It's because you've got the same as losing eyesight and hearing and sense of touch and smell. It all goes together. So we shouldn't berate our children for not liking really strong flavors? No, they're just too, too highly sensitive in their Facebook qualifications. I was the. I was one. It's in Ray Liotta territory, I'm afraid. I was the one. The one person who was employed to rewrite qualifications nationally for a large exams body on the subject of sensory loss. So I had to do a massive amount of research into that. And you know that scene in gladiator when Joachim Phoenix puts the thumb up or the thumb down, depending on whether or not the gladiator in the Coliseum is going to get his throat? I'm looking up at your balcony, man. Yeah, you're looking up at Sheila Fogarty's balcony, not mine. I'm letting her decide because we're crashing into her show now. She's his wife. What are we going to be? It's a thumbs up. It's a Ray Liotta. I'm Ray Liotta. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. You've made my dreams come true. It's not the first time you've heard that, Sheila Fogarty. It really isn't. Carry on. Thank you very much, James. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.