The first time a baby's heart beats

Here it is. Weekly excitement, a weekly guarantee of joy and giggles and indeed, knowledge. If you are new to this, it is the radio equivalent of the slightly dry and dull newspaper columns, where a reader writes in with a question, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's the origin of this? When that happens, why does that happen? Who, why, what, where, when, whither, wherefore, even the occasional whence. And then some weeks or days later, another reader will write in with an attempted answer, and then they may ensue a slight argument on the letters page before finally arriving at a definitive conclusion. This is. This is in many ways the opposite of that. A we do it all really, really quickly and b it's not remotely dry. But hang on, what's the opposite of dry in the concept of comedy? It's not wet, is it? Well, I don't know. That could be a question. Except it isn't, because there isn't an answer to it. So you ring zero 345-606-0973 you ask me a question and then someone else hears you ask it and you. They ring in and answer it. I've got phone lines free. It's a bit of a weird one at the moment, mister. Some weeks it goes absolutely nuts at 1150 59, and other weeks it doesn't really kick in until about 1206. But right now, if you're quick, you will get a line into the building. Do not ring if you're boring. Now, I appreciate that it's very hard to know whether you're boring or not. Very few people would say I am boring, for example. But if your question has an answer, potentially that only you would be interested in, then just think long and hard before picking up the phone and calling in, because things do get very, very busy. Similarly, with repetition, this is more my lookout than yours. We try not to answer or indeed ask the same questions again and again and again. Sometimes it's unavoidable because we've been doing this so long. But if you head over to LBC dot co dot UK and have a look at the archive, the painstakingly curated mystery hour archive, you should be able to get a steer on whether or not the question you want to ask has already been successfully answered. We only do one origin of a phrase a week and I think we've already got one on the board. So that's it, really. Anything the kids have asked you? I think, what else fits in the introduction? That's it. Should we just crack on this week? Yeah. Don't need any more small print. Do we don't need any more jesuitical analysis of what pledge I may or may not have made in my 2015 manifesto. Let's just crack on. Gavin is in Lewisham. Gavin, question or answer? Hi, James. Cracking show. It's a question. Very good, thank you, mate. Origin words. What is the origin of mum's the word? Mum. Keep mum. Yeah. Keep stump. Mums the words. Why? Yeah. You say keep mum as well, don't you? Keep mum. Mum. Yeah, mum's the word. Mum. I don't know. Yeah, as you can tell, because I'm just sort of mumbling. I haven't got a clue. I can't believe you've never done. Or is mum's a word? Yeah, no, nothing's coming up. Sometimes if I just engage in a little bit of banter, Gavin, an answer appears unexpectedly in the back of my brain. But that's not gonna happen. Not this time. Not this time, my friend. What's the origin of the phrase? Mums the word? No more phrase questions, please, until we've dealt with this one in East Sheen. Question or answer? Andre. Hello. Good afternoon, James. It's a question. Yes. I don't know the credibility of it because I spoke to your researcher, but nevertheless just put me through. That's not. That's not. No, no, Andre. Andre, don't do that. Don't pop your own balloon before you've got on air, mate. You can't come on and keep it. At least pretend you think it's a good question. Okay, then. I can't believe they've put me through. That's the worst imaginable call to a phone in, ever. Whether it's mister, l can't believe they put me through. Anyway, go on. Okay. About a month or so, my partner, I, we went on holiday and we landed on the island of Madeira. Oh, yeah. And I have to say it was the most scariest landing, what she said. So I thought Santorini was even worse, but by reputation. Yes. It must be the airline's sort of pilots or cabin crew which has got the worst reputation of a landing. In what way? For what? I mean, bumps. I can't imagine Kabul airports much fun at the moment. But you mean something on the regular tourist trail coming in over the sea or sort of cross winds or. There must be somewhere that's probably. I need. Just be quiet a minute. Hello? What's that seagulls in the background? Hello, I'm here. I just. Is that seagulls in the background, Andre? No, it's children. The children playing in the park here. Oh, how nice. I need a slightly more objective criteria for Runway choice because you just said it could be this, it could be that, it could be the other. So you can't have a league table of that. It has to be. I mean, do you want the most terrifying or. I mean, because Hong Kong, you feel like you're landing on the sea, apparently, until you actually hit the Runway. I guess if I was a pilot or if I was cabin crew. Yeah. So you want to know if there is a. Is that if they're a widely accepted, scariest place to land on the mainstream tourist drag. We're not going to include military airfields or anything like that. No. But there must be somewhere probably saying, oh, my God, I don't really want to land there. I like that. So it's not going to be measurable. There's not going to be an actual measured chart, but there's going to be a received wisdom among airline personnel about where the worst place to land is. Yeah, I would say so. Yeah, I would, too. What do you make of Madeira? Do you enjoy it? Is all right, was it. Oh, beautiful island. Yeah, I want to go back to the airport again. It was that bad. And what about Santorini? I didn't even know you could land on Santorini. I've only ever been there by boat. Oh, Santorini is a beautiful island again. But that was quite scary, too. Hang on. Can you get to San. You can get to Santorini by boat, can't you? Can get. Oh, yeah, yeah, maybe I did. I can't. Anyway, I digress slightly. I'm off to Greece again this summer. Hello. Thanks. Evening, Andre. Thank you very much. Graham is in Newark. Graham, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Watching an excellent documentary last night about the Windsors, and it went through my mind, seeing old footage of the royal riot Britannia, which you can go and see in Edinburgh. You can go and see old royal trains at York. Yes, but what happens to this fleet of, let's say, state cars? So Rolls Royces, Bentley's. Every few years, when the state provide a car to prime minister or the royal family, they must reach the end of their usable life at some point. But where are they? Where's the collection of state cars? I don't know that they exist in the way that you think, do they? I mean, the royal stuff is registered and restored or kept, but the. I mean, the limousines that. You mean the ministers that live, the limousines that ministers use. Well, I would actually say, just on your point there, of the royal cars. Over the years, there's been a huge fleet of those, I would assume. But they're not going to keep all of them, are they? They're just flogging off. The same thing you do with your old car. Yeah. Okay, so where is it? Well, nobody's. Nobody's driving around in a second hand ex royal. They are. Why not? I don't. Well, I think Steve Allen's got one. Really? Yeah, I think Steve. Steve Allen's Bentley was previously owned by Princess Alice. Really? No, no, I part that now. But why would it be different? I mean, there's also. I mean, you still buy fire engines and things in exchange. And, Mark, I'm sure you still can, online and in auction houses, if you've got a fancy. The kind of car. They're weird, aren't they? They're all curvy, those kind of really super top end limos. But these vehicles have been specially built against tourism. Sorry, terrorism. Yes. They're bomb proof and stuff. I think you just buy them. They'll be addicted everyday car. No, they're not on every. It's not like buying a Morris Marina. You. You want to know whether or not there's a place you can buy a car that was built for a prince or go and see them. The national. The National Motor Museum at Beaulieu? Yes. Doesn't have them, so. Got everything else, though. It's got everything else in it, hasn't it? Graham? I love Beaulieu. I do, too. Few years since I've been. But, yeah, absolutely love it. But it's just. Where is the nation's state cars? All right, okay, so they'll keep some in museums, but you don't. You want to know where they are. And I've been to many, but. Sorry, I've been to quite a few museums. Still never come across a royal. Well, not even the car that saw Prince Charles and Princess Diana were in after their map. Well, they've got in a carriage, didn't they? But there must be one somewhere. Come on, have a think, Beaulieu. You've got the trotters, you've got the three, three wheeler, you've got the reliant. Robin is in there. You've got all sorts of sterling moss type stuff. You've got, you've got some iconic cars, you've got some really historic cars at Beaulieu. You've not got royal. And again, I want to distinguish it between carriages, because carriages are at the Museum of London. You're good. Where are the cars? Exactly? Where are the cars. Where are the cars? Got a monorail as well at Beauly. You've been on the monorail? I have. Have you been to also in the area? All right, this is getting stupid now. I've never even met the bloke, but me and Chris Evans are having some sort of Twitter bromance. He can answer this question, but seeing as we don't take answers from Twitter, I can't. I can't involve it. But if you follow Chris Evans on Twitter, if we haven't got an answer by 01:00. And you know how many cars he's got, don't you? Yeah, but he's got cars coming out of his ears. He either had or got one of the versions of titty titty bang bang. That's it. So he knows a lot about cars. Well, he knows. He knows, but I can't say on air, because even for. Even for people like super famous like that, I can't make. Bro, I'm not going to break rules of Twitter. Have you ever been to the motorcycle museum that's not far from Beaulieu in the new Forest? I thought that was just near the NEC. No, that's another one, that. This one is named after a famous motorcyclist whose name I've forgotten. But this is. You know, I'm up for an award next week, and if I carry on like this, I'm not going to win it, am I? Because I was about to say, they do an excellent breakfast. Graham, let's crack on, actually, just very quickly. Yeah, go on. Finest museum and motor museum in Europe. The. The National Motor Museum. The Schlumpf collection at malous in France. The what collection? Amazing. Schlumpf. Give him a round of applause. Schlumpf. That's Donald Trump's grandfather's name. 1214 time. John Harlow. Question, answer, answer, James. Bring it on. Scariest airport landing in the world. Yeah, it is. It's the Lukla airport in Nepal. Qualifications? Been there, landed on it, and, pardon the expression, needed to change of underwear afterwards. Yeah, but this is just you. You're not a pilot. We need to. I'd want to know what they say on the pilots. Chat rooms and stuff like that. Not just the scariest place you've landed. Have you landed at every airport in the world? No. Quite a few. Trust me, James. Look it up if you need to. Which I didn't. It is the scariest landing. You land on a very short Runway which slopes up by something like 35 degrees. Holy moly. Have you ever landed at Hong Kong? I haven't. No Madeira, no Santorini, no Heathrow. You're not getting a round of applause. No, you can't. You just. That's like saying, what's the scariest thing in the world? And you ring it up and say, oh, I really hate. I really hate clowns. James, it's just you. Can I not give any qualification? Yeah, go on, then. Uh, work for a company that send people to Nepal all the time. But that doesn't. That's even worse. You need to work for a company that sends people to all the scary runways in the world all the time. And we all say Nepal. Well, I'll keep listening, James, and I'll take the round of applause later. I like your style. You hang in there. 1215 is the time. Keep it in the fridge. This mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 20 minutes after twelve. What's the scariest Runway in the world? But it needs to be by popular demand, as it were, like in pilot circles. It has to. Actually, I have to say, he said he would come back and win this one. Was it Graham? Nepal is getting a lot of votes on social media, but I need to speak to a pilot or two, even. It needs to be like. Everyone in the industry knows that the scariest Runway in the world to land on is. What's the origin of mums the word? Come on, we must be able to get that. Mums, the word keeping mum. And what happens to state transportation, for example, royal cars? Alex is in Woolwich. Question or answer, Alex. I've got the answer, James. I don't know if it's worth the clap. I got a minute, mate. Can I. Wait, wait, wait. Can I make a joke at your expense that refers to your Twitter handle? Well, just tell everyone. Tell everyone what your Twitter handle is. Zed list Sibley. Zed list Sibley. Because you are Alex Sibley, star of series three of big Brother. Thank you, my ego. But, you know, this question has already been answered on Twitter by Chris Evans, who I don't think would be misdescribed as a list buddy. Well, no, he's not. I don't have anything to do with the BBC. My. I like my LBC. Very nice. That's what the boss is going to say to me after the show, actually, today. But I just. I just. In the answer to the question, what happens to royal cars? We have now, in the space of less than eight minutes, gone from a list to z list. I'm not even on the Alphabet list anymore. You get a hieroglyphic. I hope you get the answer right. After all this build up, what have you got for me? It's not a hard thing to say. My dad's always had interesting cars and once I saw a picture, he had this stretched Mercedes E class, and it was white, and I said, why did you have that? And he said, what? It was to put your cot in the back when you were a kid, which obviously, nowadays, you couldn't do it, but it was bulletproof. And I don't ask me how he got it, he's got nothing to do with the royal family, but he bought it from Princess Margaret and she had the bulletproof, stretched mercedes E class. And my dad said you couldn't open the windows. And once they lost the keys, and it had to wait, like, about a month before they got the keys back. So the answer is, they do sell them on. I don't think you'd be able to buy the queen's bentley that she had specially. No, you can, you can back to the. Sorry, mate. Sorry, mate. No, no, I'm just going to go from the Z list back to the A list. I'm told. I'm told by the A list that you can, you can. But the Queen's last Bentley Mullsan is currently for sale, complete with bank handbag holder. You go, Axel, you're famous now. He says, get Axel to look at Bramley Motors in Bramley. They have the Queen's last Bentley Mullsan up for sale. So there you go. Between the A list and the Z list, we've nailed it. Yes. So the truth is that even people like us can buy royal vehicles. Happy days. Round of applause for Alex. Here we go. I'll speak to you soon. Matt's in Bristol. Matt, question or answer? Here's a question, Jake, carry on. So, I've often wondered why the height of buildings is referred to as stories. Now, if it was a unit of height, then surely that would mean something like an aircraft hanger, which has only got one floor. Yeah. Would. Would have the same height as any other building. So I've been sort of confused about that and it doesn't seem to have a rational answer to me. I've never been bothered to look it up on the Internet. That's obviously how much it's bothered me. But no, no, that's the rule, though. We can't. We can't look stuff up on the Internet. And I should have said that at the outset. For new listeners, you can't look. So obviously this would be a pointless exercise if you're allowed to. It's a celebration of why you know things. So that's why you get Alex's story about his dad's white stretch mercedes that he bought off Princess Margaret. If you were looking stuff on the Internet, you just get the boring answers, so don't worry about that. Why? I mean, they're called. They're flaws, aren't they? Flaws and stories. But you're just asking where the word story comes from. Yeah. Yeah. I like that question. It's a bit of a weird one for me because it doesn't mean any. It's just counting. It's 12345. But you're right, it's not a unit of measurement, because, you know, that's daft. You'd have a bungalow which has got a roof almost as high as a three story house. I like it. Yeah. Why? What's the story? What's the story? No. 1225 Michael Tunbridge Wells. Question or answer? It's an answer. It's to the. Mum's the word question. All right. Originally, the phrase was simply mmm's the word and it's got changed to mum. It's quite simply when you. When you say the word mmm, you keep your lips together, you don't say anything. So that's why keeping Mum is like that. That's why I did the banter with the fellow that asked the question. Did you hear? I was talking as if I just do it enough. Because quite often with these figures of speech, the explanation is within the figure of speech. And you've kind of proved the point. But what are your qualifications? Well, I'm a school governor and some time ago I was doing a classroom observation and the teacher said to the kids, she put her finger over her lips and said, keep mum. She wants them to be quiet. And she. And one of the kids said, why did you say that? And she explained it so simple as that. Well, how do you know she's right, though? I don't, but it sounds right to me. It sounds right to me as well. But this is mystery, our mate. We can't be doing shoddy sort of awards based on anecdote. And we need, we need. We need peer reviewed scientific evidence. Well, they trust features. Mmm's the word. And it's actually quite a messy thing to say. Mmm. Keep. Mmm. Keep stump stum. Hmm. Well, I'm up to being challenged later by somebody else. Shall I give you half, then and keep the other half till. Yeah, yeah. Right. Give him half gone. Oh, hang on a minute. I said, give him half. That's better. There we go. Michael. Yeah, keep it fresh. Sean's in Bishop Stortford. Shaun, question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on. It's why I've always had a fascination with magnets. Just say that again for me. Really? I've always had a fascination with magnets. Yes. As a kid, I used to take magnets out of speakers and I used to hang them on a fishing rod and see what I could find in the river. So my question is, why are there speakers? Sorry? Magnets in speakers. You used to go fishing with a magnet, hoping to pull metal things out of the river. Yeah. What's the best thing you caught? Well, it was a shopping trolley, but that was a bit hard to pull out. I was only young. It's going to be electromagnetism, isn't it? But you want. You want a bigger answer than that. Yeah, but speakers have always got really powerful magnets and I thought electric magnets played havoc with them. You couldn't have a magnet near your phone or whatever. But I know it's. Anyway, when did you stop going magnet fishing? What age were you when you sort of thought, this is when I. When I got a catapult game. An answer. Anna's in high. Brianna. Question or answer? Anna? Hello. It's an answer. Marvelous. Carry on. I try not to laugh. Why? You make me laugh so much I can hardly talk. Bless you. Anyway, the answer is for mum. It actually comes from the old pantomimes when women didn't talk and they kept silent and they used. They were called mums, really. They were the moms who kept silent. So then after that, it was said that to keep mum meant to keep stumm. What are your qualifications? I remember being asking that when I was very young and I was told that that was the answer. It actually makes sense and I've always makes sense. Are you sure? So the female characters in pantomimes wouldn't have any lines, didn't talk and so they were called mums. I. You're so nice to me. No, I know, but you just say it doesn't matter how many times you say it, it's not become more or less true with repetition. It's apparently true. I think I do remember my mother looking it up. Oh, yeah. Oh, how convenient that you just suddenly remembered that after I voiced a degree of skepticism. I don't remember. I think my mom or somebody actually looked up and confirmed it. But that's why in the bus. Do you mean miming? You mean they were miming. They were miming. So it comes from my mum, mind speak mum to mine or not. But what's a mama miming in a pantomime? Didn't speak and I was told it means silent. I like that as well. I'm gonna give you the other half. That wasn't half before. I should have three quarters. Really? Well, yeah, that wasn't half before. Okay, give her another quarter. There we go. Happy now? Thank you. Thank you. Past twelve is the time I'm going to go fishing with a magnet. Later. I. So am I going to do it in the pond at Chiswick House. If anyone wants to join me, pick up my youngest. You could pull anything. Get a really powerful magnet and just go and drop it in some water. That guy in Bishop Stortford, he knows how to live. Seriously. That should be an Olympic sport. It's 12:30 Simon Conway has the headlines. The queen has unveiled mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1234 is the time. That thing, mummers that I mentioned, it's like mime, I think, between those three, the two answers that we rewarded, and then the mummers, the mime artists, I think that's going to be the origin of mum's the word. Where's the scariest Runway in the world? Madeira's getting a lot of love on this. It's Madeira versus Nepal. But we need to know whether there's an accepted scariest Runway in the world among the pilot, the flying community. We've done the state. Cars or stories. Why are buildings. Why do we talk about stories in buildings? And why are there magnets in speakers? Someone deserves credit for a gag here that I'm not going to pass off as my own. That wouldn't be fair. Except, of course, until I remember that, I can't find it and then I will have to pass it off as my own. But someone said, I think that fellow in Bishop Stortford must have misheard as a child when someone said, you need to go fishing with maggots. He thought they said magnets. Oh, make me laugh. Jeremy's in Wimbledon. Question or answer? Jeremy. Hi, James. It's an answer. Please carry on, mate. Right. It's to do with the short. Well, the most scariest airport to London. Yes. There's a few factors to consider, really. What makes an airport scary is the length of the Runway. So the shorter the Runway, the more high risk, the narrower the Runway the airport trades. Air traffic control. I'm going to say Madeira, Europe. I'm going to give you three Madeira, Gibraltar and Innsbruck in Europe, but I would say Madeira out of all of them. Are you a pilot? I am, yeah. Okay. Is it is. You've never landed in Nepal? No, I haven't. I haven't, no. Nepal's risky because it's high up. It's got a lot of terrain around it. There's also the air. There's a bit thinner, so the aircraft engines don't perform as well. Have you ever kind of taken a straw pole? Are you at work at the moment? No, I'm not. No, not at the moment. Is Madeira sort of widely regarded in your profession as being the. Being the scariest one? I wouldn't say there's a scariest one, per se. What we do is you sort of look at all the risk factors on each airport and we sort of, like, add up the risks, if you. That's what I mean. But if you. If you. If you were in the. In the staff canteen and said, car Madeira, that guy was on mystery the other day, they wanted to know what the hardest place the land was. I said, madeira, would everyone sort of agree with you? It would be in the top? It's probably as high risk as it could be. I quite like this. It's a good answer. And is it true that when you're landing there, sometimes they announced, Thomas Cook announced that you need to be specially trained to land at Madeira. Do you do? Yeah, that's right. So airports that have a certain risk category, once they. Above a certain risk factor, they need special training. Sometimes we do it in a simulator, sometimes we do a simulator and sit in the jump seat and watch another crew do it. Yeah, they'll do. I'm leaning to the axel. What do you think? Yeah, let's go. Let's go. Great work. Yes. Thank you so much. No, well played. And that gag, that gag about the maggots and the magnets. I think. I think Ross is. I don't think that's your name, is it? That's a taxi driver. I think his twitter name is his registration number, but I shall call you Roscoe. So, well done, Roscoe. Professor Martin is here, professor of robotics at Middlesex University. So I predict you're going to answer the magnets question. Absolutely correct. Carry on. Why are there magnets in speakers? Okay, because coming out of the amplifier down, the speaker cable is an electric current, and an electric current, when it's changing, produces a magnetic field. So what they do inside the speaker is have a coil of wire which produces a big magnetic field, and to make the cone of the speaker or the flat panel of the speaker. Move. You have an opposing magnetic field. Vibrations to create the vibrations in the speaker? Yes. The movement of the air. And the reason they want the most powerful magnets they can get is because you want the loudest sound you can get. And the more stronger the magnetic field, the more movement of the cone, and the more sound, the louder the sound you'll get. Have you ever used a magnet to go fishing for metal in a canal? No. The day is young. Round of applause for Professor Martin. I've already established this credentials and qualifications. Good work. Kevin is in Chelsea. Kevin, question or answer? Hello? Hello? Hello. I was so happy when I found out I was sick today, because I desperately wanted to call mister for, like, about a couple months now. I'm so glad. Well, I'm not glad you're sick, but I'm glad you're happy. I'm glad I'm sick. I know you are, but it would be a bit inappropriate of me to be taking pleasure out of your illness. But I'm glad you're happy, albeit sick. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Is there any currency system left in the world which isn't under the control of a central bank? And if there isn't, like, which one was the last currency system to adopt a central bank? Why do you want to know? Basically, though, sort of debate an economics class about whether central banks are good or not. And I just thought it would be good if I could, like, compare with a central bank with one without a central bank. Is bitcoin not an answer to this? That doesn't really count. I'm talking about, like, a proper one. I don't know. Well, that's the point, though, isn't it? I think when you say proper, I say. Gee, when you say proper, you mean something that is attached to a certain. Because the thing that makes bitcoin improper is the fact that there is no central bank involved, potentially. But that's not. I'm driving at. I'm talking about country's currency. Yes, exactly. So. But if it's got. If it's a country's currency, then. Then it almost by definition, will have a central bank that issues the currency. Otherwise, who would issue it? Well, before 1913, there wasn't a federal reserve. So I'm not sure how it worked back then, but. No, that's a good point. Nor am I. Or does I think they would have to. I'm not sure. But that's the question then, really, for me, is how could you have a currency without having a central bank that issued it. But. But I'm like you now. I'm intrigued by this. So is that. Is there a currency which isn't under the control of a central bank? A national currency that doesn't have a national bank is what you're saying. But who would issue it? It has to say something on it, doesn't it? I promise to pay the bearer, whoever it may be. Yeah, but then how did it work before the era of a central bank? That's a very different question. That would be barter and, you know, the weight of precious metals and stuff like that. Before the era of a central bank. Bearer notes and promissory notes. I like that. There's a brilliant question in there somewhere. If you can answer it, I'll give you the money myself. 1241 is the time. Sam is in. Oh, hang on. Kevin, what's wrong with you, mate? What? What's wrong with me? Yeah, well, I just got a cold. Oh, all right. So I was just checking. It's nothing. Where have you taken a day off from caring so much? Have you taken a day off school with a cold? Uh, well, it's pretty bad. And also I have a 3000 word essay due. I see. Yeah, now we're getting. What are you doing listening to this rubbish on the radio? You should be writing your essay about. I know. What's it about? What's the essay about? By close comparison of why Sargasso seeing the handmaid's tale, how and with what effects do the authors present male power? This is pretty intense. That is pretty intense. Make sure you get the word dystopian into your introduction. An osmosis. Well, that might be trickier, but it gets him up. Have we got the thing? Because he just said it. Axel hasn't been here long enough. You understand, mister out better than Axel does. He hasn't been doing this shift long enough to know what's supposed to happen when you say that word. What was that word? Word again? Osmosis. He doesn't. He actually doesn't know what to do. It's broken. Oh, mate. Kevin, get back to work. Sam's in Durham. Sam. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. I'm wondering why women's dress sizes go up in twos, not one. I know this. I thought you might. Well, oddly, I know it with men's clothes. But the reason will surely be the same. It's to do with mass manufacturing. The difference between a size eight and a size nine just wouldn't be enough to justify making two lots of. But why do they not call a size ten or size nine? Because I think that theoretically, you can still. You can get a 41 inch chest jacket if you go to some specialist suppliers. So I'm pretty sure if you had a dress made yourself, you could have it made between an eight and a ten. I think so. But the answer is that they go up, because some places, I think Ted Baker go up in individual digits. Every shop is different. That's why some women complain that there are twelve at Dorothy Perkins, 14 at Henny's, or whatever it may be. I got it from my mom. That's the answer. I think it's like shoes. You very rarely get half sizes these days. They used to be quite commonplace, because the manufacturing process costs a lot of money to reset and do it. So it goes up in twos. Even though you could have something that fills in the gap, they just don't make it right. Okay. Because the gaps are so small. You're going to buy that? I'll buy that as well. Round of applause for me. I've never for a while. Well played, Sam. You're not ill as well, are you, mate? Oh, no, I'm good. I'm good looking. Fantastic. 1243 is the time. Why did Sarah go to see and the handmaid's tale. Whew. Poor old Kevin. No wonder he's feeling the pain. Keith and Mason. Keith. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Please carry on. My question. If somebody has a heart attack or a problem with their heart, they might need a defibrillator or CPS to get their heart restarted. So my question is, when a fetus is forming in the womb, how does the heart start for the very first time? Does it? That's one of those questions. It's either very good or very bad. I'm not sure which. How does it start for the very first time? Because I thought maybe it probably gets jump leads from the mum's heart. So it's like the umbilical cord is like a jump lead? Well, I wondered if that was the answer, but then I thought, how does the mother know that the cells have formed enough? There's no consciousness involved in this. This is just physical development. That's a bit like saying, how do you know that? How does your brain know that it's time to start growing hair out your legs? It just happens, doesn't it? It's a natural process, but I love to know what the natural process is. It's almost like, when does the heart start beating? Your answer? Not how does it start beating? It's when and why? Is there an electrical charge that comes from the mum or something like that? Presumably the organ develops before it starts beating and there's a point at which it goes live. Yeah. Or we are just combining here to demonstrate an absolutely abject ignorance of all biological science. It's one or the other. Keith, where are you going to put your money? I think I'll sit on the fence. I like that. So, in the womb, when does the heart start beating? Zero, three, four. That's a good question. Right. Zero. 345-606-0973 got a couple of other questions still on the board as well, but there's time for you to get yours on, too. Time is 1245. Joanne Webb is in the LBC Travel center with James O'Brien on LBC. It's ten minutes to one and we've still got some questions that need answers. There are currencies. I'm getting them in on social media, but I'm not good. I think Michael in Medway's going to sort us out. Currencies that don't have a central bank. Stories. Where does that word come from in the context of buildings having stories? Because it's not a unit of measurement. Well, it's a unit of counting state transportation, runways. We've gone with mum's the word some of you are unhappy with, but whereas Kathleen hasn't, she's too nervous to ring in. She's got degree in linguistics as well. She can go definitive on that. But come on, Kathleen, there's nothing to be worried about. It's only Mistria, it's only me. And we need to get. We got room for a couple more questions as well. Let's get this answer up first. Michael's in Medway. Question or answer? Michael, is there the answer? Carry on. Good. Go right for currencies. There are only three countries that are left without central bank being owned or anything. That's Cuba, North Korea and Iran. Qualifications? Oh, I've just been doing research on this sort of thing for the past 15 years. I'm only a decorator myself, but it's. Did you not hear what I said earlier? What was that? Where fella rang in and described himself as only a courier. Oh, yes, I was listening, actually. Yeah. I'm a painter and decorator. Yeah. No one comes on this show and describes their livelihood as only something. All right. It's my new rule. I hate it. It drives me potty. Why are you researching currency? What have you got planned, Michael? I'm not going to be an economist or anything like that. It's going to start going down like the rabbit hole a bit, really, but into sort of world government and, you know, federal banks. Oh, blimey. So a bit. A bit. Forgive me, this will sound like it's pejorative, but it's not. But a bit conspiracy theory ish. It sounds like it on the outset. Yeah, they all do. But that's what prompted your interest. And so if I get a banknote, a north korean banknote, it's just been issued directly from the government, has it? Yeah, basically, they're in control of it. They run all their own affairs. I mean, you can say, for example, you've got the Federal Reserve, which is privately owned. You've got the bank of England, which is privately owned. They're corporations. The only banks that I've listed are the only ones with. What was the other one? North Korea? Iran. And was it Cuba? Cuba. Cool. That's a brilliant answer. Well done. There you go. But you never knew your research had come in this useful until, of course, the world economic system collapses and you're the only one left with a few quid. I better start painting some more houses then, rather than for Michael. I mean that. I've never noticed that before. People ring up and say, I'm only a decim. I'm only a courier. That's a very british disease, that. You can get that in scandalous Scandinavia. I'm only a bus driver. I'm a bus driver. Be bloody proud of it. Dave's in Chichester. Dave, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Question. First of all, that mums the word is absolute poppycock. The answer is not. It's not a way to win over the crowd. Dave, at the beginning of your contribution to the program, especially with my finger hovering over the dump button, honestly, I've been sitting here stewing over that. I've been waiting to ask a question. I thought, I know the answer, that, and I'm just hearing these answers. Come in. Rubbish. You can't do it. It's not what you've rung in with, though, you spoon. Come on. What? What do you want? Question or answer? Question, please. I want to know why if you cook a potato, it magically has more calories after you've cooked it than before sugars in it. Well, no, I thought that as well. But if you look, if you ever. Even if you bake it. Sorry, even if you bake it. Even if you bake. Boil it. Oven chips. If you have oven and boil it? Yeah. And if people look at their oven chips, you'll notice that there's more calories if you grill them than if you put them in the oven. I don't know why. And I know from school days it used to measure calories. You actually set fire to the food, didn't you, and see how much it would eat up water. Yeah. Well, that'll just be to do with the oil. Or will it? I know. I don't know, actually. No. Even a boiled potato has more calories. Are you sure? Hang on. How do you know this? Well, I know it because I need to. I need to lose weight. And I know that pendulum went on a potato diet. So I thought, I wonder how many calories in potato. When I was looking at it, it said, raw potatoes x amount. And when you cook it, it's got more calories. That's a lovely question. I like that. Who's pet pen? Jillette. As in Penn and teller? Yeah, that's right. Couldn't he just make it disappear? No, that's rubbish. Because obviously we. Well, I never did. Potato has more calories in it after you cook it. You can't eat a raw potato. It's bad for you. That's what I heard as well. Yeah. Yeah, but. Yeah. I don't understand why. Because I know that if you set fire to food and heat. Yeah. No, you're just thinking of when you used to do the water in a test tube with a burning peanut, aren't you? That's right. I know. I don't think you can set. You can't say far to a lettuce, mate, to find out how many calories it's got in it, can you? I didn't think of that. No. Take it from me, you can't set fire to lettuces. Hash, partridge. I like that. If you. If you've got your facts wrong, I'll be cross, because I love that question. If it turns out to be based on a false premises, I shall. I shall describe you as purveying poppycock. 1255 is the time. Alec is in Dunster beach. Question or answer, Alec. It's a question. James, getting in these late questions, it's not good, but I'll do my best for you. Go on. Potatoes. And Alex, question. I've listened to you for many years, but it's the first time on your show. Oh, thank you, mate. I'm in a little beach chalet on Dunster beach in Somerset, overlooking the Bristol channel. Oh, what, right now? Yeah. Oh, lucky fell channel. I think has one of the highest tides in the world. An average one is about 10 meters, so let's say about 30ft. And it takes 6 hours from low tide to high tide. My question is, during that 6 hours, does the tide come in at an equal rate or does it start off slow and then speed up or whatever? And whatever the answer is, why does that happen? I can only give you the yes or the no, can I? I can't do the why, but that probably the person. If we get an answer in the next three minutes, hopefully the answer will be able to. To provide it so that. So that if it was a bath and the tide was filling the bath, would it rise at an equal rate? That's right. During the period which you were filling it. I love that question here. I love that question. I don't know that part of the world. Is it gorgeous? Absolutely gorgeous. Yeah. It's going like going back in time and it's only two and a half hours from the West Midlands. I was about to say, whereabouts in the West Midlands are you from? I from Redditch. Redditch. I'm a kid of Mister Boyd, but you know that already. Okay. Yeah. So this is. This is my hidey hole down here that when the wife needs a break, she sends me down here. I love it. I got your radio on and the sun is out. That's a happy days. You're winning. Alec's winning today. Alec is winning. 1257 is the time. Tony's in Morden. Question or answer, Tony, answer. Come on. Story stories. Yeah. Go back into the days of King Arthur and castles. Yeah. When under siege or whenever. They used to use the different floors as storages and, like, it'd be a grain store on the first floor. On the top floor there would be arrows and weapons and stuff. Arrows and weapons. Qualifications? Sorry? Qualifications? I like the answer, but I want to try and squeeze in a couple more. What are your qualifications? How do you know this? We visited a castle when I was a kid and this is one of the things that came up through. Derivative. It's always sort of stuck with me. Yeah, I love it. I love it. Yeah, I like it. Give Tony a round of applause. Lorraine's in Barnett. Lorraine, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. It's the potato question. Why do they have more calories when you've cooked them? It's just about weight. So the calories are given to you generally in hundred grams on whatever you look at. When you cook a potato, it loses water, so it loses weight and therefore, the calories are concentrated in a smaller amount of weight. So it's calories per hundred grams that goes down. It's not the total number of calories that you consume? No. Oh, you're good. Oh, you're good. Qualifications? Common sense, I think. Oh, I hate it when people do that. I'm so sorry. No, that's all right. It's not me you're insulting. James is in Farnborough. Question or answer? I want to get the tides. Answer. Come on, somebody. Tides. Tides. Tides. James, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Instead of baby question, how does the harp start beating? So when the baby's born, it breathes an oxygen, which causes a chemical change in the body, which causes the baby's heart. Like a valve opens, and then it starts beating, so it doesn't beat in the womb. All I think the blood goes through the heart, but just for the top half, they put the stethoscope on your wife's tummy, and you hear the heart beating? Yeah, well, that's the. I think that's the blood going into the heart, but I think it's only the top half of the heart. I think this is weak. Well, I can tell you how you can get the answer. Well, I don't need to. I don't know. I think what. What you'll find is that cardiac cells are intrinsically myogenic and can initiate contractions on their own. Yes, exactly. Can I do. Sheila, can I quickly do the tides? Do you mind? Are you sure? Quickly. Because he was such a nice fellow. Thomas Haringey. Answer to the tides. Question. Quickly, quickly, quickly. Rotational. The gravitational force of the moon around the earth, you get a high tide and a low tide every 12 hours. I'm qualified. Yeah, I know, but where's the tide coming in? At the same rate. It builds up. Slowly, slowly. Over there. You're blown it. I've got Sheila foggy here. She can't hang around waiting for you to get your elbow in gear. I'll do it again tomorrow from ten. Is Sheila well? With both my elbows in.