Does the Queen write a will?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve, mystery Hour is a bomber as your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The number remains the same, but the game is rather different from the other 14 hours that we spend together every week. The idea is that you ring in with a question. It can be as silly or as serious as you like, as scientific, or as something that begins with s and sort of constitutes almost the opposite of scientific. I've already used silly, so that was probably an error and someone else will then ring in with the answer. It sounds very dull, but it isn't. However, today is actually quite an epochal. Is that a word? It's quite a historic moment in the history of mystery out. Because when this infernal racket in the background ends, I mean, when the rather lovely production that accompanies my introduction to mystery hour reaches its magnificent and moving crescendo, I'm going to do something incredible, like, seriously incredible. I don't know if you've got children, and if you do, I don't know how old they are. I don't know when the word merch appeared in your life. When did the word merch appear in your life? Palamine is in the vamps, the popular beat combo the vamps. James, the lead guitarist, is a good mate of mine, he's a lovely bloke and he asked me if my girls wanted any merch and I had no idea what he was talking about and I had to pretend that I did. But obviously I asked the girls. It's short for merchandise. And, you know, all major celebrities and stars have merch. They have merchandise. Except me. Until now, because I am about to send the email to my colleagues and friends that will see the mystery hour board game go into prototype production. I am. I've literally written it. I've written we're good to go. We've had all our final approvals on the illustrations and the COVID and how the game works and the manufacturing. And you are now witnessing history because I'm about to press the email that we'll see the mystery hour board game making its way into a shop near you very soon. And there we go. That's amazing. That's amazing. If you think back to when mystery House started years ago, solely as a ludicrous way of avoiding proper conversations on days of elections, because you're not allowed to talk about elections on the day of elections, as I found to my cost a few years ago, and it's now going to be a game. It's actually going to be a proper game, a really cool game as well, with my lovely face. And you'll be able to buy it and take it home, play it with the kids. It suits all ages and, you know, you may even be in it. You may have asked one of the questions that made it to the final cut for the actual game. I think that's just lovely. And obviously on an entirely egotistical level, it means I now join the ranks of a list celebrities who have their own merch. Merch? Yeah, I got merch. Yeah, you've got to love it. You got to love the merch. So I'll keep you posted on developments. It'll definitely be out in time for next Christmas, but almost certainly somewhat sooner than that. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Question or answer? Shaun is in Greenwich to kick things off. Sean, question or answer? It's a question. James. James. St Paul's Cathedral in the City of London. Yes. Westminster Cathedral is in the City of Westminster. Yeah. Why isn't Southwark cathedral in the city of Southwark? It probably was. Are you sure? No, it's just the borough. Yeah, but it was probably because you're going for the old. I mean, the definition of a city is usually that the presence of a cathedral is one of the distinctions that a city enjoys. So I presume that Southwark cathedral was once. I presuming. Who knows? Well, it was always part of, you know, part of London in elizabethan times. It was south of the river where they buried their dead. It was outside the city walls. Was the bishop. The Bishop of Southwark, though, wasn't there is a Bishop. Yeah. Sorry. That's all right. I'm thinking out loud. Was it. Was it Southwark where they let all the dirty stuff go on? Yeah. It was outside the city wars. And I think that, you know, I mean, there was some serious filth. There was some serious filth going on south of the river. It's where all the bear baiting pits were. It's all Charles I being the sort of culmination of this period. So I think Southwark might have been. Shakespeare also had a theater then, the rose Theatre, and so it was a very. Well, the theater was pretty raw again. I think the Puritans got rid of the theatres as well, didn't they? Didn't. Didn't Cromwell? I think so. Well, I shall ask you the question, but I would not be surprised, Sean, if the answer is that. Well, Southwark was actually a city at one point. Well, that's fair enough. It's just something I've always wondered. Well, I have now. Well, not always. I've wondered it for about 36 seconds, but who knows how long it is going to stay on my wandering list? You're on. Thank you, Sean. I like that. Why is Southwark Cathedral not in a city? Or is it the only cathedral? Well, as you heard the question, I'm not going to do my own variations on it, but I am now because it's the way my mind works. In fact, I think the minds of all mystery hour fans work in this way. I'm now wondering whether there are any other cathedrals that aren't in cities. Can you think of any? I know what you're thinking, James. You're one of the 75 leading Catholics in the country, according to the Catholic Herald, you of all people. But these are anglican cathedrals, lads. Anglican cathedrals. Leon's in Brighton. Leon. Question or answer? Good morning, James. Hello. So, how far away is the horizon, do you think? It's always the same distance? Well, that would be a secondary question. But do you mean the sea? Because, I mean, you'd have to be on a beach looking out. Which is easier in Brighton than it is in Leicester Square. Yeah. So if I'm on by the beach, how far away would the horizon be? Yeah, okay. And I presume if you're on a beach, it's going to be more or less consistent, isn't it? Because of the curvature of the globe. Whenever I veer into territory like this, I almost always end up making a prat of myself. But I've gone. I think I've gone there. Now, the curvature of the globe, man, is going to determine the distance of the horizon from. From any beach. We shall find out. I mean, you could just get one of those fitbits and. And a paddle board and work it out yourself. Oh, no. How would you know when you'd reach it? But you wouldn't know what you'd reached it, Leon, would you? You'd get to what would be the horizon from the beach and then there'd be. There'd be another horizon, which leads our beautiful little exchange back to a symmetry of perfection. Because would the distance from your paddle board that has now arrived at what would have been the horizon when you were on the beach? Would the distance. Yes. Would the next horizon be the same distance from your paddleboard as the first horizon was from the beach? Absolutely. This question gets better every. Every time that we add to it. Let's find out. How far is the horizon? How far away is the horizon? And Southwark cathedral. How come it's not in a city? Mandy's in ealing. Mandy, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. Why does bright sunlight make me sneeze? I like the way you say sneeze, sneeze. That's just nerve. I. Well, you covered your nose brilliantly. I always forget which way round it is that you. If you feel that you're about to sneeze. I think if I look at a bright light when I think I'm about to sneeze, does it make me sneeze or does it make me not? Because you always want to sneeze, don't you, Manny? Unless you're weird. I don't know. But every time I go out into really bright sunlight, I do one very large sneeze and then that's it, it's done. I think it's probably an evolutionary defense against pollen, so the brighter the sunlight, the more likely the pollen count is to be high, and therefore you're cleaning out your nasal passages with a sneeze in order to minimize the chance of allergic infection. That might be right, yeah. It's unlikely, though, isn't it? I don't know. It's possible. It's possible. Thank you for your diplomacy, Mandy. I'll find out for you. Why does the sunlight make Mandy sneeze? And it's one of those questions where I'm working on the principle that it's not only Mandy, just Mandy's personal medical conditions. I think I recognize that phenomenon, but I can never remember which way Randy is. And when I say everybody wants to sneeze, I know if you're my age, you'll think back to Roy Castle's record breakers and there was some poor girl on there who couldn't stop sneezing. It was a curiously bittersweet viewing, that, because, you know, it's amazing, and she got into the Guinness Book of Records, but presumably it blighted her life. She couldn't stop sneezing. What I mean is, when you feel the first tickle of a sneeze, you want to get it out rather than get it away, not least because a sneeze is such a physically satisfying experience. Should I crack on before we go peak, partridge? Yeah. Alex is in Streatham. Alex, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on, Alex. It's about Southwark Cathedral. Yes. Well, it wasn't actually ever built as a cathedral. It was built in Southwark. But was never, never intended originally to be a cathedral. Why did it get promoted, if that's the right word? Well, I think, as far as I'm aware, Southwark is a pretty, pretty new diocese. It's only about 100 years old. Okay. And it used to be. I think it was used to be part of Rochester or Winchester. Okay. And I think, presumably the. The powers that the God promoted it, early 20th century, it was in Southwark and, you know, it was a big church, so it was a big church. So you get a round of applause. It was a big church. They might have noticed it was a big church before, Alex. It didn't just become big. Oh, my. Lads, lads, look at the size of this one. We better make it a. We better make it a cathedral, sharpish. It's a massive church. What's the difference between a cathedral and a massive church? Will almost certainly be a question on mystery hour in the coming weeks, but I'm going to give you a round of applause. But there's still room. We still don't know why it got promoted, do we? But we do know that it wasn't, presumably, because it was, as I say, just one of the biggest ones on the south bank. Yeah. So, yeah, you get a round of applause, but I am leaving the door ajar in case people can add more historical knowledge. What are your qualifications, Alex? My father used to be a vicar in the diocese of Southwark and I happened to receive a bishop's chorister award within the cathedral. Oh, that's quite nice, isn't it? It's a lovely qualification. It's not going to get a ray Liotta. It's not. It's not. It'll do. I'll take a round of applause. You get around. I mean, obviously, if your dad had been the bishop of Southwark, we could have been. We could have been talking turkey here. But he's not, so we're not. I'll take that. Thank you, Alex. Lovely stuff. Find out you go 15 minutes after twelve. Whatever you do, don't tell your dad you've been talking to one of the 75 leading Catholics in the country. Honestly, they accuse you of disloyalty. 12:15 is the time. Southwark cathedral, room for a little bit of improvement. But it wasn't a cathedral when it was built. It got promoted to cathedral status relatively recently. How far away is the horizon? And why does Mandy sneeze whenever she goes out in bright sunlight? This is LBC Mystery Hour on LBC with James O'Brien 19 minutes after twelve. Is the time. Mystery hour is underway. Coming soon to a board game near you. Southwark Cathedral. Apparently, there's two cathedrals in Southwark. I don't know if that's true, Clare. I've got no reason to doubt you. I'm just saying I can't confirm or how far away is the horizon. Quite a few of you are pointing out it may depend on how high you are. As in tall? Not. No, not that, honestly. Not even in Brighton. And why does Mandy sneeze every time the sun is bright? It's not just Mandy, actually. Ben's two year old sneezes every time the light in the room goes on. Even when we wake him up in the morning, he sneezes. Has done since he was born, pretty much two years old. And Ben in Bedford is adamant that any answer must factor this additional piece of information in to itself. 2020, minutes after toss, Stuart is in Lotte. Fragrant in France. I don't know French for question or answer, which is rather embarrassing. Hopefully my mum can get a refund on my school fees. Stuart, question or answer? Question. Thanks, James. It's about the clock change and it's so topical. Yes. When the clocks go back at the end of October, on the last Sunday of October, that's approximately seven stroke eight weeks before the winter solstice. Right. But when they go forward again, it's approximately 1314 weeks after the winter solstice. And I wonder why this hasparagy. Because the light should be the same either side of the winter solstice. Yeah, I think I understand the question. So you think the wind. You think the winter solstice would be the middle, exact middle of the. It is the middle, yeah. Yeah. So the clock should actually go forward if it was equidistance around about Valentine's Day. Did you know that? They're not. I don't know why we have to wait an extra seven. Seven weeks. No, I'd find out for you. It may be. I don't know why it may not be a clearly plotted graph of light from before and after the winter solstice. I know it seems intuitively that it should be, but it may. It may not be. Did you know I only rated. Yeah, I agree. So I'm just sort of thinking out loud. 2022, they're getting rid of it completely. In Europe, supposedly. I've not definitely yet. Have you not? I only read this yesterday and I wasn't sure that whether it was true or not, but I thought you might know more than I do, given that you live there. But. Well, I think they're leaving it up to individual countries. No, they can't do that, mate. It's Brussels. It's the jack boot of Brussels. They can't leave it up to individual countries. Haven't you been paying attention? It's outrageous. Of course not. No, no, no. I like that a lot. I'll find out for you. Why does the winter solstice not sit squarely in the middle of the. Why is it? Well, you heard the question. It's more weeks. Seven weeks before, but it doesn't go forward until 13 weeks after. You'd think it would be ten either side, wouldn't you? If I understood the question correct, I'd better check with Stuart. Have I understood the question correctly, Stuart? Yeah. Yeah, pretty much, yeah. It should be equidistant. It should go. So should we stop saying equidistant? It's ten. It should be ten weeks either side. I'll leave it up to you. Yeah. I don't. Man, I love someone who. I'll tell you what, here's some great radio for you. Anyone who understands question better than I do, ring in with an answer which I probably won't understand either. Jim's in Dorchester. Jim, question or answer? Answer. Distance to the sea horizon. Ah, yes. Excellent. Carry on. Okay, I'm looking at my nori's nautical tables and page 518 has a distance of the sea horizon. So it's dependent on your height of eye. Yes. So if you're at two and a half meters, say, then the distance of the sea horizon is 3.3 miles, double that to 5 meters, height of eye and distance to sea horizon is 4.7. So the good example of that is if it's on a really clear day and you're looking out to sea and you see a ship that's eight or 10 miles away, you'll see it hull down on the horizon, as we say. So you'll see the superstructure but not the hull. That's because the curvature of the earth and of course, the distance to that horizon is contingent on your height of eye. The only rule of mystery out, which I hadn't actually reminded anybody of today, is that you're not allowed to look stuff up. But you have actually provided an exception to that rule because I suppose you could have known that off by heart. You probably do know that off by heart, but you've double checked. Is it norries? Yeah. Well, it's pretty common that we all know that 5 meters is equivalent to about 4.7 nautical miles. Good grief. But there's the proof. And if you ever come across anybody who believes in the flat earth, show them that. Yeah, I don't know about you, I'm gonna suggest I may have had more dealings with the kind of people who believe in a flat earth and incontrovertible evidence, Jim, not to bring Brexit into it doesn't actually cut as much mustard or butter, as many parsnips as you may expect. True. And therein lies the problem. And therein lies the problem. What are your qualifications? I'm a master mariner. Ship captain. Oh, fantastic. I love that. Round of applause for Jim. When's your next voyage? A couple of weeks. Well, good luck. Bon voyage, as they say. And before you go, any thoughts on the one stuck in the Suez Canal? I don't know. What kind of ship's you, captain? Oh, that's just a steering gear failure. Generators supply electrical power to the switchboard, which distributes electrical power to the steering motors. And they've had an electrical power failure and probably got five degrees or two degrees of helm on. And there you go. You're up on the bank, and it happened quick. You can't do anything about it. That's exactly what I thought. You've taken the words out of my mouth, Jim. That was quite incredible. The problem with that, though, is that you should never end up going dead ship. In other words, complete dislocation of power. There should be backup standards, emergency generators or generators on standby that will come on and provide emergency power. Or you should have three generators running so that you don't end up in that situation. So, bit difficult. Are you surprised it's still stuck? Well, I mean, you've got a 400 meters container ship. Those things carry 18 and a half thousand containers, so there's some mass there. You know, she will. She'll hit that. She would have hit that bank. Hired. And it's not going to be an easy job to get her off. Crazy stuff. You have a lovely authority when you speak. I hope you'll take. I hope you'll allow me to say that I could listen to you talk about this stuff all day because you speak with that calm and casual authority that is so lacking in so much of public discourse. How many master mariners would there be in the country at the moment, roughly? I don't know. The UK seafarers compliments have greatly reduced over the last 50, 60 years. Ballpark figure? A lot depends on this, Jim. Difficult. I really don't know the answer. Dozens? Hundreds? Oh, there'll be thousands. Oh, will it? Oh, well, it's just a round of applause, then. Thank you, Jim. Take care. 26 minutes after twelve is the time and Thomas is in tooting. You know, I don't think I've said this for a while. One day we're gonna do an entire show where the name and the location have to be an alliteration. It all stems from an advert that was on the telly when I started in this job for the Halifax, and it was all Don in Doncaster, Pete in Peterborough, Thomas in Tooting. One day, you'll only be allowed on. You'll need two requirements of entry. You'll have to have a flag and you'll have to have a name that begins with the same letter as wherever you're calling from. But that day is not today. Thomas just happens to be in tooting. Question or answer, Thomas. I've got an answer, and I'm glad that I've kicked off a new rule on them on the show as well. I don't have a flag for hand. Sorry, mate. No, Chris is in England. Chris, question or answer? I have a question. I'm only joking. Chris, I'll be right with you. Thomas, you don't need a flag to appear on this program. That was satire. That was satire. That was. I'll be in the Tower of London by two fast for me. Yeah. I've got. I've got an answer as to why you sneeze when you look at sunlight. Oh, good. Yes. But it doesn't actually happen to everyone. It's actually down to your chromosomes, and it only affects about. It's estimated about 20% to a third of the human population. Is that right? And we're not entirely sure why so far. There's a recent study in 2010 which linked it to a specific chromosome, but we're still not entirely sure the reasons behind it. It's just a slight, slight anomaly, almost. Did you like my theory of pollen? Yes, I did quite like that, and I think that's definitely sort of a part of it. And obviously that can set off sneezing as well, but it's a specific reaction called a photic sneeze reflex, and we're not entirely sure we tracked it down, but we don't know. You get the points for the fantasy lingo. It's the photic sneeze reflex. So when Mandy says, why do I sneeze in bright sunlight? You say, oh, that'll be your photic sneeze reflex. So you haven't actually answered the question, but you have answered the question. Exactly. Yes, there's an answer, but I can't show you the workings, unfortunately. It's quite all right. You've qualifications? I'm studying biology at Royal Holloway University in Surrey. There you go. Well, technical University of London. But that's just of the brochure. It's quite far away from what most of us think of as central London, but, you know, round of applause all day long. That's a lovely answer. Photic sneeze reflex, lads. Thank you, Thomas. You take care. Be a good name for a band. Chris is in Ealing. Chris. Sorry, mate. I used you for. As my comedy foil, then in some flag based humor question. Yeah, I'm glad. Question or answer? I've got a question, please. Okay. I watch a lot of history documentaries about the royals over the years and that sort of stuff, and the one thing that never comes up is whether or not the queen has a will, or if she has to write a will. Does she have to have a will? That is my question. The queen? Yes. Does the queen have a will? Does she have to have a will? Because my thinking was, a lot of her property is listed and just passed on to the next person that takes over. Yeah, but she's going to leave, like, she's got some private gear, hasn't she? Like, a tiara or something that she wants to leave. Yeah, but is that just naturally not just passed, or does she. Does she have to have a will, like, written down, like we do? Well, she know. I mean, we don't have to. Is the first thing to say. You could go into probate. Although, obviously, if you've got all the riches and treasures that the queen's got, it'd be a bit silly to die intestate, but, yeah, so some of the stuff is hers and some of the stuff is the crowns. That's what you mean. So stuff passes on to the. To the heir to the next monarch. But she's going to have a. Like the corgis, for example. She's going to. Who's going to look after the corgis? Yeah. Yeah, but would she not need to state somewhere? Yeah, I think she probably does. So it's not, does the queen have to have a will? It's just. Does the queen have a will? Is it yes? The answer is almost certainly yes, but I don't know. Who would know for sure? Why are you wondering about this? What are you planning? I was watching a documentary last night, and so it just. It sort of popped into my head, so. Yeah, so you were watching a documentary last night you saw something you quite like the look of. You thought you might drop a line to her Majesty, asking if she might remember you in her will. Look, nothing dodgy was involved. It was just. Nothing ventured, nothing gained. Chris? Well, there's a will. There's a way. Let's find out. For does the queen have a will? Zero. 345-606-0973 it's 12:30 Thomas Watts is here with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three. Four. Five. Six. Zero, six. Zero, nine, seven. Three. Twelve. Thirty four is the time. We know how far away the horizon is. That was a lovely answer. Well done. What was the fellow's name? Is it. I can't find it. But the fellow, um. Leon, texted in to say the queen. No. Who texted in the answer to the question? Nick in Ferrum says, of course the queen has a will. He's. He's her grandson. I like that. I like that kind of joke. It's lovely. But does she actually have a will? As in the last will and testament? The southwark cathedral. Question. Why does Southwark have a cathedral? Or, according to player two cathedrals, when it's not a city? We've had an answer to that question. There was nothing wrong with the answer to that question. But it didn't. I don't think it went full fat, as it were. Is that. And we've done the photic sneeze reflex. I think that's it. Is there anything else on the list? I've just got the queen and the cathedral. Oh, and the clocks go back. Why does the winter solstice not sit right in the middle of the clocks going back, if I got that right? Sometimes a question just gets you, doesn't it? And that one's got me. Nag is in Peckham. Nadge, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Ned. There's a much hyped board game coming out pretty soon. I don't know if you've heard about it. Go on. It's called mystery otter. Oh, I have heard about this, yes. The fella on the box is all. I think it's been photoshopped because no one was born that handsome. There's probably only a few people that can answer this question, but I want to know, how can you get a Rayleigh otter on a board game? And this is a very high stakes question. These are high stakes questions. I mean, there are two answers, obviously. I could say you'll have to buy it to find out. I will. Don't worry. Well, but that would be unfair. I have. After much deliberation and confusion, we have decided to keep the radio to exclusively for the radio entertainment and not to have. Just to keep that one little. There's a round of applause involved which you will enjoy enormously. But the Ray lio. Also, it's quite a recent arrival on the mystery hour event. But the answer is you won't be able to get a Ray Liotta on James O'Brien's mystery hour board game. I see. Okay. Okay. But you should get one for answering the question. I know, I know. I'm totally thinking the same thing. I don't think I've ever had one before. Ask me what my qualifications are. Ask me what my qualifications are to answer a question about James O'Brien's mystery. Our board game. This is about the mystery art board game. James O'Brien. I am James O'Brien. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Brilliant, mate. Brilliant. No, you're brilliant. Love it, love it. Oh, you're the best. Thank you, dad. Thank you very much. Thank you. Give Ava your details. I'll send you a free one when it comes out because that was a mad. That was a magical moment for me. I'll send it myself, don't worry. I'm not expecting you to go down to the post room or anything like that. I shall deal with it individually, but it may be a while. Don't. Don't hold your breath. 1237 is the time. Rob's in Chelsea. Rob, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. Carry on. Yeah, just to. Basically, regarding the savage cathedral question, the long and short of it is a cathedral doesn't necessarily confirm city status. I always thought it did. No. And the answer and the reason and the clarification behind that is that Chummelswood is only recently a city, 2012, but it's had a cathedral for best part of 200 years. And down the road is Brentwood, which also has a cathedral, but it's not a city. So that's it. The long and short of it, a cathedral does not confirm suicidal. And so it just got promoted for the reasons that I think it was Alan who rang in, wasn't it? He was. He was actually a definitive answer. I was just looking for more detail on why it got promoted. A cathedral doesn't necessarily even be that big. Chelmsford is pretty small. In fact, it's the second smallest cathedral in England. The smallest is derby. Well, there you go. No, I mean, I've got qualifications. You live in Chelmsford, so you just live in Chelmsford. That's it. Round of applause for Rob. Love it. Thank you. Thank you. 1238 is the time. David is in. Lewis. David, question or answer? Question. James, may I first make a quick comment, actually, because earlier on you were making an announcement with some music in the background and you said about reaching a crescendo. Do you know about this pedantic little point? Yeah, go on, then. Fill your boots. You do. Well, you might have been right, actually, because I think probably when you finished speaking, then the crescendo have started, so. But most people when they talk about crescendo, it reaches a climax in music. But anyway, I thought it was reaching a climax. Maybe it was the point. It goes up like that. Let me just consult with my crack orchestra, Keith. It goes up at the end, doesn't it? It goes. That's a crescendo, isn't it? Well, it's one of those things that people get very confused about, because the crescendo starts from soft and goes to loud. So the whole thing is a crescendo. The crescendo is not the apex of the movement. No, no, that's the climax. The whole. The whole movement is a crescendo. So the crescendo has a climax. Oh, yes. There we go. Anyway, what did you question or answer? Sorry about that. No, I love it. I'll never forget that a crescendo has a climax. It's tattooed on my memory now. Carry on. Good. It's a bit about thunderbirds. Did you watch thunderbirds? Not only did I watch Thunderbirds, privilege of meeting Gerry Anderson in his own home in the new forest many moons ago. Oh, my goodness. Right. Well, the question is, Thunderbird four, you know, the cute yellow submarine thing. Yes. When it. When it. You know, it has to be delivered inside the pod. Inside Thunderbird two. Yes. And then it goes down a ramp into the sea, doesn't it? And. Oh, I know where this is. The pod is floating on the water, isn't it? Yes. Um. Now, I was always wondering, how does Thunderbird four get back inside the pod when it's done its mission? This is a lovely question. How long have you been wondering about this? Oh, yeah, I know. Decades. Decades. Well, I can't find it, because you always see it going down the ramp, don't you? And then. It's not an am, is it? Not an amphibious vehicle? Well, it is, yeah. Well, I don't know. I don't know. Well, that might. I mean, does it have. It doesn't have wheels, does it? Or it doesn't have immediately visible wheels? No. So how does it get up a ramp? In other words, is. How on earth could it get up a ramp? Yeah, but it must have wheels, I suppose, if it wants to slide down the ramp. Well, that might be the answer. That might be, but we need. I mean, who would know? Jack, Jerry's no longer with us. Well, you better. Oh, is he? No. Oh, dear. Oh, that's a real shame, isn't it? I know, yeah. He had a very good innings, though. Don't worry. I mean, you know. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So who would know the answer to that? Well, I slap. Who knows? Let's find out. You're on. There's got to be people out there. How does Thunderbird for get back into Thunderbird two? The pod of Thunderbird two, the pod of sun. Is that not Thunderbird four? No, no, Thunderbird four is the submarine, and Thunderbird two carries lots of different pods, doesn't it? Yeah. Remember that thing in the sequence, all the drumming in the back? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So. And then it lowers onto the pod containing Thunderbird four, or whatever. There's a drill involved as well sometimes. Isn't that. So? How does it get back in. How does the pod get back into Thunderbird two? All right, now we shall find out. Well, we may not find out, but we'll certainly ask, how does Thunderbird. How does the pod get back into Thunderbird two? That is one of my favorite questions of all time. However, if you can answer it, I'll give you the money myself. Keith's in Finchley. No, he's not. He's on the other side of the screen. There can't be two people called Keith in this world, surely. Keith, question or answer a question? Actually, I've always wondered, why is it in this country, we get a few days of hot and humid weather, it then tends to turn into thundery showers. And yet, if you go to a place like Cyprus or anywhere on the med, it tends to just carry on through the summer, this hot and humid weather. Why is it in this country, when we get hot and humid weather, it nearly always changes into humid, you know. Thundering shells. Are you? Well, how much time do you spend in the med regularly? Not as long as I would like. But I just noticed if I go to, let's say, Greece or something for a summer holiday, but just for a fortnight, right? Maximum a fortnight. Yeah. Yeah. I think this might be part of the answer. You would never. You never get a fortnight of hot and humid weather here because it was broken up by thundery showers. So why don't you get that in the mid. But that's just not. Actually, I think that you do get quite a lot of thundery showers. I've spent a lot of time in Greece specifically, and I do. I often get caught up in storms. Even in summer? Well, I don't recall. I mean, yeah, occasionally. Not even occasionally. It's often the way. And in this country, the idea that every time it's hot, we have a thunderstorm at the end of it just doesn't stand up to the scantiest scrutiny, Keith. No, it does. In this country, you tend to find when it gets hot in August, it tends to be followed by a thunder downpour. We get thunder. If you go to, let's say, Greece, they can have weeks and weeks of really hot and humid weather without thunderstorms. Well, I'm going to leave the question on the board, but I think you might be meteorologically challenged. Maybe. Maybe. But I think if John Kepley's listening, game on. Let's see what he's got to say. Well, or indeed any other suitably qualified meteorologist. But I've spent a lot of time in Greece over the years and I have certainly found myself in a lot of summer storms. It's just something I've noticed because I find that I like the hot weather here, but it seems to always be followed by a few days and then you get a load of heavy downpours. Oh, really? I'm just going to check with your namesake. Do you recognize this description of british weather, Keith? You do? Okay, that's Keith squared. You're on the board, mate. Absolutely. Absolutely. Laughing why do we get thunderstorms at the end of a period of hot weather in this country where in countries that are more regularly and routinely hot than we are, according to Keith's, you don't. Although James thinks you do. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1249, is the time I need to find the Texaco. And I'm breaking a few mystery owls today because Jim was allowed to kind of look something up, although he would have known off the top of his head as a master mariner, where the horizon was, how far away the horizon was in relation to eye height. But someone sent in a text adding to the question about why Mandy sneezes in the sunshine. And it was one of the best things I've ever seen and I'd never heard anything like it before, and now I can't find who sent it in, but I can share with you the. Here it is. Fantastic. It's from a Twitter account called dark poor. I'm not joking, James. Which always makes me think, aye, aye, pull the other one. But this one is true. The photic sneeze reflex is also known as autosomal dominant compelling helio ophthalmic outburst syndrome, or photosnesia. Photosnesia is my new favorite word. That's great, isn't it? Photosnesia. That's just absolutely brick, because I think the Greek for light to go back to Greece. Oh, my God. We're knitting it all together today is photos. Phos. Phos. But this is true. There is another name for that photo. Sneeze reflex. The autosomal dominant. Compelling helio ophthalmic outburst. Now, think about that. It's not what you said, keith. Autosomal dominant. Compelling helio ophthalmic outbursts. You know, when you make an acronym, you're allowed to drop a word to make it easier to acronymize. Drop the D from that. Okay. From autosomal dominant. Compelling helio ophthalmic outburst. And what have you got? You've got an acronym that goes a c h o o. Put it together, and what do you get at you? That's got to be the best thing you've heard all week. No. Oh. Oh, fair enough. The mystery. Our board game is the best thing you've heard all week. That must be the second best thing you've heard all week. Same here. And I already knew about the board game. Niles in Tunbridge. Niall, question or answer? An answer? Carry on, Niall. To do with the daylight saving time? Yes, originally, I think it was brought in for the first world war. And it's mostly to do with farming. Giving longer daylight during harvest time. Yeah, that's correct. And then over the winter, and then as spring starts to come in and farming sort of picks up again, that's why you've got that offset. And so the. So the crops, rather than the amount of light, would determine where it went. Well, the harvest time would be September into October. Got it. So, I mean, it is done. It is done to save daylight, but the saving of daylight explains when it's done, because it's when you need the daylight to be saved. Overrides the sort of logical stick it smack in the middle of that 20. Yes, that makes perfect sense. I even understand the question now. Qualification. Asking annoying questions as a kid. They're not annoying, though, are they? Depends who you ask. It depends who you ask? Annoyance is in the ear of the beholder. But don't forget under. Under pretty Patel's new police bill. Asking annoying questions could get you locked up, Niall, so mind how you go, won't you? In the meantime, accept this round of applause from me? Thank you. No, thank you, Matt Sinchazi. Matt, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Matt, to the first time caller. By the way, it's the Thunderbird Four question, sir. Yes. Okay, so Thunderbird Four has wheels underneath it which allows it to get back up the ramp into the pod. You don't see this on the tv show, but you do see in the comments in the comics of the sixties, do you? Yes, you do. However, you do see in action the wheels working in an episode called Terror in New York City, where Thunderbird two has been shot down by the USS Sentinel. Yes. Thunderbird Four has to go and rescue a tv crew trapped underneath a building that's fallen in New York City. And the same ship that shot Thunderbird two down has to ferry it across to where it needs to be. However, to leave Tracy Island, Thunderbird Four has to go along the launch path from Thunderbird two to the edge of the sea, where a jetty sort of devolves down to the sea. But thunder before has to get there on its wheels, and that's how it gets back into the pod. So my friend Jakey, who I wouldn't allow because he wouldn't ring in, he did it on Twitter. He's right as well, when he said there's an extending ramp that goes under it and then magnets. Magnets kick in and the rail retracts back into the pod. But it would need wheels to get there. Yeah. I mean, there are other. I mean, if you please. The mole, the thing they used to dig into the ground with that got stuck in the sea and there was a winch. I remember them winching back into the pod, if you like. So, I mean, I'm a nineties Thunderbirds fan. When it. When the resurgence came out. Okay. Jerry's shows, you know, I loved it. How amazed are you that I got to meet him? I'm thoroughly impressed. However, I do follow Jamie, his son, on Twitter. You fan? I'm going to outplay you guys because I just found Jamie on Twitter and he follows me. So, yeah, he does, but he's obviously not listening today, otherwise he might have rung in qualifications. Matt, I am just a massive, great big nerd Thunderbirds fan. Doctor who fans. Well, that makes it me very uncomfortable. With what happens next, because Alistair in Orpington is bringing a stewards inquiry to the table. And yet I found that you delivered your answer with more authority than I was expecting anybody to muster on a question about Thunderbirds. So let's find out what Alistair has to say. But I would cautiously suggest that you're a shoe in for a round of applause. Alistair. Good morning, James. Lovely show. As normal has its moments. What's gone wrong? Nothing. What I'm looking at is technical manual issued on the 50th anniversary edition of Thunderbirds, approved by Anderson, which has cutaway drawings. Go on. And it says here, specifically on Thunderbird fall, they've got a nice picture where the launch and recovery rail is the main way of deploying and recovering. It doesn't mention wheels. It doesn't show wheels on the cutting. That's fine. You're not challenging because we've done the magnetic retractable ramp as well. Exactly. So you're both right. But you've brought source material to the table. Matt, I bet you'd like to get your hands on that manual, wouldn't you? I certainly would. I might leave you two to negotiate this. Will I return to the program proper, but have two rounds of applause? Oh, Alistair. Qualifications? You've got the paper. Why do you have that? Are you a massive fan? Very nicely produced paperback book, which was on sale until fairly well, probably until a year or two back. Because you're a huge Thunderbirds fan as well. Yes, but I caught it first time around. Okay. Yes, well, I guess if the pubs ever reopen, you two should go for a pint together. In the meantime, have this on me. You've made my day, James. Thank you. And another one as well for Alistair. That was lovely. Thank you, Matt. Thank you, lads. That was really nice. 1256 is the tide. That was almost nicer than the. Ah, tu alkerinem that. This is one of the best mystery hours of all time. It's probably because of the sense of excitement that's accompanied the announcement of the imminent mystery hour board game. Nicholas is in Morden. Nicholas. Question or answer? It was an answer. Carry on, Nicholas. I actually rang in for the rest of the answer on the cathedral, but I was asked by your researcher the answer about the queen. And the answer is. What is it? Hang on a minute. This is what you doing? This is outrageous. What are you trying to secure? Do you know why? Do you know why? We've already done it. But this is because she come up with a new sound effect when we clear the board on Twitter. On mystery hour. And we play this theme tune at the end and she's so obsessed with it that she's now actually manipulating callers to the program in order to try to sort of finesse a full clearance. But presumably you're a lawyer or something, which is why she thought you might know the answer. Right, go on, then. Yeah. Queen's got a huge private estate which belongs to her personally. Yes. And if she didn't make a will, it would go under the laws of intestacy, which I'm sure she wouldn't want Andrew to get as much as you would otherwise get steady, but. Yes, absolutely. Right. So, of course she has a will. Yeah. Qualifications? Lawyer. Round of applause for Nick. Okay, what did you want to say about, do you want the cathedral? Answer? If you can do it in 10 seconds. Yeah. The cathedral is derived from the word for big. Big seat, or throne, which is the bishop's throne. And unless you were a big bishop, you didn't get one. But the moment you got one, where your big. Where your throne was, your official cleaning place is that church then becomes the cathedral. And that's why, of course, as one of the country's 75 leading Catholics, I can remind you that ex cathedra is the phrase that is given to the pope when he speaks infallibly, which doesn't happen that often, but it means he's speaking from his throne. Round of applause for Nicholas. Great work. My apologies that you were involved in the producers mind games and machiavellian machinations. Gareth is in Stoke on train. Gareth, question or answer? James? Carry on. It's for the rainfall question. Yeah. The storms in sunny places. Yes. Yeah. It's standard GCSE geography stuff. It's just conventional rainfall. It's just if you've got a wet climate, the sunshine evaporates. A lot of the water. Of course, it's chicken and eggs saturated, so it starts to rain. So because it's wet, it's wet. Yeah. Round of applause for. It's why it rains. And they equate it every. Every lunchtime. Well, you've done it. You've done it. Of course it is. And qualifications? GCSE geography, which means we can now play this fantastic sound effect. Thank you. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. I have a beef. I have a beef. Oh, no. I can't believe you're on Britain's leading list of Catholics and I'm not top 75. Sheila. I'm pretty sure you've been naughtier than me. I've got a confession, though. So. Doesn't count, does it? You know, that prodigal son always was an attention. I'll give you some tips, Sister Fogarty. I'd love some tips. Yeah. I'm being naughty. I'm. I'm all raring to go once this lockdown's over. Thanks very much indeed, James.