Food fads - how do they come about?

Three minutes after twelve is the time. Can we start with an apology? I completely forgot I had emails today. I haven't read out any of them. I know I don't read out many usually, but I apologize if you've been kind enough to email me today for ignoring you. I won't do that tomorrow, I promise. Because the next hour I routinely do ignore all emails. That's part of the rules of mystery hour. It is only possible to contribute to this part of the program by phone. If you are one of the many, many people new to, to the program, then I should tell you this is historically by far the most popular part of it. It's also the most popular podcast that we have at the radio station as well. So if you're listening on the podcast, hello. Welcome. Bad luck that you can't join in. If you want to join in, I'll tell you now roughly how it works. It works like this, very similar to the newspaper features or the magazine features that you may be familiar with, where a reader writes in with a question, a mystery, something that you know there would be an answer to. So you've got your sort of why do we do this? Where does that come from? What's the, what's the explanation for this, that and the other. And someone else knows the answer and they write in weeks later and then everybody's happy. This is really live. This is really live and interactive. The very definition of interactivity. So if you've got a who, a why, a where, a when, a wither, a whence or even a wherefore, just nestling away somewhere in the back of your consciousness, then the number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 and hopefully somebody else listening to the program will get the answer. I'm with will on this. Phone's on silent. It's time for mystery hour. Good work, Will. Mine's off. Actually, I have to be a little bit more careful than you. The only rules are these, don't be boring, never be boring. Never be boring. Boring means that your question would probably the answer to it will only be of interest to you. You see what I mean by that, don't you? So don't ring me up and ask me where your keys are. And don't ring me up and ask me where your keys are. It's not funny to do that when I say don't do it. And then you ring up and say, James, there now. And if it's to do with motoring, it's probably dull. And the only other rule is repetition. If you ask a question that the rest of us can remember dealing with relatively recently. And apart from me, everyone's quite new to mister hour at the moment. So this is proving quite a tricky little condition. There is an archive. You can go to LBC dot co dot UK and see questions that we have dealt with in the past. It's quite helpful to double check that if you've got the time or indeed the inclination. Because if it is repetitious and we can remember answering it, you'll be politely invited to move along. Okay? Is that it? I think it is. The number I'll remind you of only when I've got phone lines free. The question I'll ask you, if you ring in with an answer, is what your qualifications are. That doesn't mean you have to produce a certificate showing that you passed your cycling proficiency at Staple police station in 1983. It just means that you need to tell me how you know the answer you've just provided. So it could be that you're the professor of science, the public understanding of science at Brighton University or you. You might have seen it on the telly last night. They're both valid. As long as we believe you. You go definitive, you get a round of applause. That's it. Dharma is in West Hampstead. Dharma, question or answer? Hi. Good morning, James. It's a question. Please carry on. My son wanted to know the other day we were watching the equestrian event at the Olympics and he said, how did actual horses get to the Olympics? Did they fly or how did they get there? Because they come from all over the world. They do. They fly well, like Pegasus. Yeah, just like Pegasus, mate. They have to hide their wings. They have to. White heart. They have to hide their wings before the dressage? No, they. They fly on planes. Really? Yeah. Would you reckon they would not have problems with the altitude and oxygen? Well, no more than humans do. I don't know. I'm not going to argue with you about this. I mean, absolutely impossible to get a horse to Brazil in the time scales relevant to and important for an event like the Olympic games without sticking them on a plane. Okay. Okay. Darn it. Come here a minute. You sound quite skeptical. I respect that. Sometimes I give the impression of perhaps being a little bit of a know all. And it turns out later in mystery hour that I've humiliated myself on an epic and was completely wrong about everything. Popcorn last week for mystery, our fans. But in order to support your scepticism, you now need to give me your theory. Wow. Apart from being Pegasus and the irish horses, perhaps by boats, because I just don't think flying would be good for them. I'm going to break a golden rule of. I'm going to break the golden rule of mystery out. And I'm going to use Google not to answer your question, but just to find out about getting a boat to Brazil from Great Britain. It's only a couple of weeks, isn't it? Probably, yeah. I'm just trying to find out. Several cruises. No, you'd have to get to Miami. You can't get a boat direct to Brazil. You'd have to fly to America and get on a cruise in Florida or Philly. Hmm. Mate, they go on planes. I mean, I can't. I've seen. Have you seen a horse on a plane? I haven't seen any snakes on the plane either. Right, that's it. Now, that's enough. I do the rubbish jokes. Round of applause for me. 37. They fly, but not like Pegasus. Michael is in St Neats. Michael, question or answer? Question. James, carry on. So, a few years ago, I was scraping the. You know, you can sometimes get lead on windows in. In the frame, in the pane of glass. So actually on the pane of glass, yes, you get lines of lead. And a few years ago, scraping the lead off, my parents had just had their windows changed, so I was scraping the lead off one of the windows that they hadn't had changed. That was on the conservatory. Oh, yeah. And the question came to me, why the hell do we put lead on windows now? As a youngster, my mother always used to tell me that it wasn't actually that they were bars to keep out people from robbing us. Oh, yeah. Which was brilliant, but absolutely has no realm of fact in it at all. Did your mother lie to you a lot as a child? Sounds pretty plausible to me. No, I don't think she lied to me a lot. I might, I may found out why. So why so mistrustful on this issue, then? Why so mistrustful on this? I. Then when I scraped them off, found out they weren't bars then, they were just for decoration, probably, I imagine. And I'm not going to take a round of applause on this one because I was quite cocky on the last one, but I imagine back in the day, it was really hard to make big panes of glass. Yes. And that's why you get small panes in. In churches. Exactly. Why on modern houses. You put me in a really difficult position there, Michael, that I was trying to. I was trying to avoid. I think it's. I think it's done for aesthetic reasons by people who are quite naff. Is that why my parents don't want to go there, mate? You've called her a liar. I've called her naff. This is not great for your mum. This is not a great mischief, but because on my own house, I don't have any lead. Oh, that's all right there. Glad you fell far from the tree. But, you know, when people have fake elizabethan black and white stripes on their house, they're trying to make their houses look like the original elizabethan. I imagine that leaded windows have got something to do with trying to make your house look like the windows back in the day when they needed to be leaded, because the technology hadn't tackled the art of creating big pieces of glass yet. You know what? You can have a random. I'm not going to take it, though. You know me, mate. Mister modesty. I mean, I think. I really think you should take it, but that's almost certainly what it is. You might not get enough. Yeah, I totally think that's a. That's a bit. That's a good reason. You might not get another one today. So I don't care. I know. I'm going to. This is for the time. Do you know what? I'm going to give it to you. I'm gonna give it to you. Yeah. For being a top lad and also for bearing all those crosses of childhood, of growing up in a naft house with a dishonest mother. Thank you very much, James. You're very welcome. Twelve after twelve, Lucy's in Reigate. Lucy. Question or answer? James? If you want a second job, be a stand up comedian. Lie down. Lie down comedian, more like. Go on. What have you got for me? Question or answer? When you look rough, when you come in the doors to work and you said I had a few sherbets last night. What's Sherbet got to do with. Have you been listening to Steve Allen? Yes, of course I have. I don't believe it. He's invading my. Do you know what he does as well? He pretends he doesn't know what it's called. He couldn't answer it. I want you to answer it. He pretends he doesn't know what it's called. He says, oh, I was talking about your magical hour this morning, or whatever it's called. You vile man. You vile, vile man. I don't know what you're talk. I've spilt sweet and saferons all over my trousers. Oh, he's lovely. I think he's magnificent. Absolutely magnificent. Got to do with beer. You just answered it, haven't you? It's fizzy. No, no. A few sherbets. Yeah. Why? Okay, I like that. We only do one a week on. On the origins of a word. And you're right. Why do we call a drink a sherbet? A sherbet originally was a drink, Lucy, you've just grown up in an era where you associate it with fountains and liquorice, haven't you? But originally a sherbet was a drink like a sorbet. But, but, but liquidy. Yeah. You're just going to keep saying yeah, aren't you? Yeah. Okay, I'll find out for you. What is the origin of a sherbet in relation to the drink. And I shall give your love to Steve as well next time I see him. We've done the leaded windows and what was the first one? I'm pretty sure I got that one right. There's a possibility that we didn't get the horses one. Of course, they go on planes. There's a possibility we didn't get the leaded windows one right, but I think we probably did. Why sherbet for a drink. I like that question. I employ the phrase a lot. We should meet up for a sherbet or seven. Beth's in leatherhead. Beth, question or answer? Question. Carry on. And so this is a bit confusing to explain, but you know how cider is big these days and how coconut oil and all that sort of thing. Everyone's using coconut products like mad. How do they. Do they pre plan these things? So did somebody, you know 20 years ago? That's a lovely question. Should we grow these loads and loads of coconut trees now so in 20 years time we can flood the market with coconut oil? Well, coconut. That's a bit too specific. You're talking about fads in general. Really? Yeah. Well, like with the cider. Cider suddenly became massive. But were there loads of orchards waiting for this? No, it was. I think it is. They would have used the apples for other things. Cider. The reason we got the massive resurgence was because they came up with the idea of putting it in a glass with ice in it and they advertised it, made it posh, advertised it in a different way, but I think it was made by bulmers, which was. They were making wood pepper. You know, there's massive, like, everywhere you go there was drinking cider. Would they been enough? It takes quite a while to do it, but they get their apples from all over the place and they might be making fewer apple pies. Do you know what it was for me, I would have asked this question if I didn't have a mind like a sieve. Me. It was popcorn. When did popcorn become so trendy? Yeah, but then popcorn you can grow corn over, you know, it's not hard to grow apple tree. It takes a bit longer. Yeah. Okay. I'm pretty confident that one company breaks through and then the other company, due to commercial considerations and advertising and a change in style, and then other companies pile in with their own attempt to get a piece of the action, and it means they have to pay a premium for their apples. But think about how much stuff gets thrown away in the course of the year. I'm pretty confident. But then coconuts was there, you know, everything's coconut like. There's so much coconut products now. But I've been. I've been. Believe it or not, I've been to a coconut processing plant, and previously, huge amounts of it was thrown away. Oh. So maybe it's just. So they've just tried to find a way to flog product and. What's it called? Side effects. Byproducts that previously were getting slung away and now they found ways to do it. Possibly, yes, possibly. I'm gonna. I'm gonna leave it on the board, because, as I've mentioned to a few callers, modesty prevents me from claiming too many rounds of applause. Yeah, I think. I think that. I think I've still got something there. I do. Food fads. So we go. We'll go for cider. Popcorn, posh crisps. And what was the other one you had? Coconuts. Coconut, yeah. All right. They're all really good examples of things that suddenly seem to be really, really popular. How come? So we need someone from within the industry on that one. I think both. Great question. Thank you. 1216 LBC 19 minutes after twelve. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is underway. Questions that still need answers include. There's only two, really. Why do we call a drink a sherbet? What's the origin of that? And four examples of things that have just become incredibly popular incredibly quickly in the world of food and drinks. Cider. What was it called? Was it Magnus? Is that where it all started? Was it was, wasn't it? And then suddenly everyone was drinking ice. Cider. Remember the adverts that. Anyway, cider popcorn. That's a very good one. Posh crisps. They didn't. You only had golden wonder and walkers when I was a kid. Or Seabrook, the crinkle cut ones, if you lived up north. They're my favourites. Prawn cocktail, seabrook crisps. And what was the other one? I said cider posh crisps, popcorn and coconuts. Of course, that was the caller's best example. So how does that happen? How did they go from almost 0 mile an hour to 100 miles an hour? Apparently so quickly, given that in the case of some of those things, that the production line would be hard to predict and. Well, let's go to the phones. Lindsay's in Biggles way. Lindsey. Question or answer? It's an answer. I'm just kind of. Was going to give you some clarity to your answer on the horse question. Well, I've already had the. You know, I've already had the round of applause for that. You took the round of applause already? Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're welcome. You can come along and sort of polish my award if you want. That's fine. You shouldn't have a go. I'm like, I'm giving you. I'm agreeing with your answer. No, that's good. I'm not having a go. I'm just reminding you you're not going to get a round of applause for it unless it turns out they didn't. Unless it turns out horses didn't go to Rio via airplane. No, they did. They did. Apparently they go via airplanes. They have their own individual passports and go through their own customs. And apparently they also have a hay allowance. Really? Oh, of course, because of the weight on the plane. You couldn't take an unlimited amount of hay. Exactly. They've got loads of kit and stuff, so they had to have a hay balance as well. Love it. What are your qualifications? Oh, I don't know if I can say. I was actually listening to another radio show and they had an immense conversation about it until we can speak for in the dress art. And that's where they discovered it. That's all right. Okay. I was going to give you a round of applause until you admitted that you'd been listening. What time of day was this other radio show on? It's ward in the afternoon. So it wasn't in the. Oh, that's all right then. That's fine. I've never switched over. No, that's quite all right. You can have that round of applause after all. You're very welcome. Flying horses. Phil's in Kroll. Phil, question or answer? Well, it's an answer, but I've got shunted into a siding. Because I think you've already answered it. It was about the lead on windows. Really? Yeah, I was. I was. I mean, it was Michael who insisted that we went definitive on that, the actual questioner. I wasn't happy, because I did. I just worked it out. I don't have any proof that I was right. It is in the modern world, the leaded windows are just sort of mock Tudor fake attempts. Go on. Yeah. Mum and dad had some lead lighted windows that were made of small panes. I do remember as a kid being responsible for breaking one of them. And the glazer had to come and he replaced just that tiny little thing. It's very good. He's very clever with blow pump and everything. But I do remember, and he remember him telling me that it's quite an old idea anymore and you can't buy these anymore because they're very expensive to do and maintain. And you're right, it's just a mock tuber effect. So, yeah, that was the answer, really. I can give you a round of applause as well. I'm in a very generous mood, Phil. Well, that's very kind of you. You're very welcome. With regards to the flying horse boxes, by the way. I actually carry the fuel for a flying horse box at Coventry. And they're absolutely right. They're special aircraft and there's a little part at the back for the people who look after the horses and will have their own individual stalls on board. Very interesting. Really? Yeah, it is really interesting. What was that? Shopton? No, no, not shops. Not big enough for a 737. Do you know when I first saw it? Shoveling for East Midlands. Go on. Oh, shoving all the horsemen. You? Coventry airport. I didn't know that. Yes, but it's a freight type center now. They don't buy the passengers anymore. I saw them shooting the stuff off. I thought it was a flight that just got back from malware anyway. Or it had a really state of the art energy conversion unit on board. Flying to Rio de Janeiro using horse manure. Phil, you already had your round of applause. Quality work, as always. Wayne in Basildon, another valued regular contributor to the program, is just adding to that windows answer, because he's had more jobs. He's had more jobs. That fella than. Oh, I don't know, a member of the labour party. Front bench. Used to be a window fabricator. Led lights are indeed just for the look in the really old windows. It's separate panes. So there we go. We worked it out. Chris is in Greenwich Chris, question or answer? Hi. A question. Carry on. Why don't people eat seagulls? Why don't people eat pigeons? Yeah, but I mean, you can if you want. I think some of them will be protected, but generally speaking, I presume it's because they're a lot more fuss and bother than they're worth. Same reason we don't eat pigeons. There's a lot of them around and they're massive. Yeah. I mean, I can only say it again, Chris, because I imagine they don't taste very nice and they're quite hard to catch and a lot of them will be protected. Sort of RSPB territory. Used to have. I didn't know this. This is actually quite interesting. Even though Chris's question wasn't the dove cuts that are often attached to posh houses, you know, you sort of think, why do you have a dovecot? What a weird hobby was that? Like a posh, middle class version of Jack Duckworth's pigeons? It was for food. You'd keep a dove cut in your garden, you know what I mean? Those sort of massive birdhouses. And it was a way going back to tudor times, like the windows. It was a way of having a supply of meat, a constant, guaranteed supply of meat on your. On your own ground. So that's why convents and monasteries, they all had dovecotes. Dovecotes. There you go. I won't charge you for that. Anthony's an Uxbridge. Anthony, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Right. Well, actually, I did have two, actually, but no, all right. Why is it we can eat red meat raw? Almost, but we can't do the same with chicken. We have to thoroughly cook chicken because of the back. Different types of bacteria that live on different types of meat, which I thought. I mean, I'm salmonella, isn't it? I think that's it. I think it's that simple. But I don't. I think it's. I think there's more to it. There has to be more to it. I mean, why? Why do you have to cook? Okay, let's do. Let's come at it from the other end of the telescope, Anthony. Okay. Why, in your view, do we have to cook chicken so thoroughly? Because it probably tastes awful, uncooked. No, but that would just be a preference rather than an instruction. Okay, so why do we have to not choose to, but have to cook chicken so thoroughly? Because of the bacteria, as you say. But my, my. You've just answered your own question, you prune. No, they both live on a farm. So does the farmer. You know, they both live on the same farm. They eat the same grass, although one's running around. But they got completely different DNA. Yeah, but I mean, stop it with the. Who's that nice lady in the background? Oh, that's. That's my work colleague. Okay. Marie. What's her. Can you put her on a minute? Pour on a minute. Hello, Marie. Yeah. Is he always this stupid? Yes. At least you have fun at work, eh? We do. We do. I'm gonna leave. I don't tell Anthony this. I'm gonna leave the question on the board. But I'm doing it more out of charity than intellectual inquiry. All right? Nice one, James. Get lost. Anthony. You weren't supposed to hear that. Anthony and Marie. Anthony and Marie from Oxford. Fridge. Why do we have to cook chicken so thoroughly? But red meat can be enjoyed. Blue, rare. Edward is in Orleans. In France. Wow. Bonjour. Bonjour. Question or answer, Edward? It's a question. Carry on. You can buy plastic bags to go in your food waste bin that are biodegradable. Right? Yeah. Why aren't all plastic bags sold biodegradable? Surely that's better for the environment. It's a terrible phone line. I think you're absolutely right. It would be much better for the environment. I imagine the answer is that it would cost too much just to. It would cost too much. And you know those biodegradable. You wouldn't want to put your shopping in one, would you? Biodegrade immediately. I don't mean your shop is going to fall out because it's biodegraded. I mean your shop is going to fall out because they don't seem as sturdy as your normal bags. I'll put it on the board. Are you on holiday in France or do you live there permanently? On holiday. I love that idea of people going on holiday but still tuning in live for their mystery outfits. We already had one picture from Majorca. Go. Yeah. Don't do that again. All right. As I sit here in Leicester Square in the middle of London, don't send me pictures of your view from your beach in Majorca as you listen to my radio. Burblings Edwards question remains on the board because I've had my fill of rounds of applause already today. Why don't we make plastic bags, all plastic bags, biodegradable? It'd be wonderful for the environment. Why have I written down woodpecker? Oh, that's a cider question. Yes. Why do food fads come about? What happened? Why do and the four examples we've got. Suddenly cider, posh crisps, popcorn and coconut milk. Coconut juice. Suddenly they're everywhere. How does that happen? Is it planned in advance? Why do we call a drink a sherbet? And we've done, I think, the rest. More questions on the way. If you can answer any of these. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. You are listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour on LBC, where there are rounds of applause up for grabs and probably about half a dozen opportunities more to get your question on the board. Before all of that, Rupert Bartier is here with the headlines. The proportion of ace star grades. O'Brien on LBC 1232 is the time. Mystery hour is underway. Question still in search of answers. Food fads. Why don't we eat seagulls? I kind of think we've answered that, but if you want to go a little bit more detail, there is a round of applause. Up for grabs, I suppose. Why do we call a drink a sherbet? We can't answer that yet. Come on. And biodegradable plastic bags. Well, you know, the ones you get in your compost bin. Why can't we make them all biodegradable? Andy's in Sudbury. Andy, question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on, mate. I'm a bit nervous. You're going to eat me for breakfast on this. It's an easy one. No mystery out, mate. I never eat anyone for breakfast on mystery. The president of the United States is a bloke at the moment, well spotted. And his wife's official title is first lady. Correct. If Hillary Clinton becomes president, what are we going to call her husband? Because man just sounds a bit weird. It would be. Probably be. I can answer this a because there was a brilliant piece in the Financial Times at the weekend, the photographs taken during the eight years the Clinton spent in the White House. Previously, they had an official photographer who took tens of thousands of pieces, a really brilliant, brilliant piece. And it addressed this issue. There's no official precedent. The consensus at the moment is that it will be first gentleman. Anecdotally, Bill Clinton is reported to want it to be first guy, but of course, because he is a previous president himself, the chances are he'll carry on being addressed as mister president, because ex presidents still are. You can have a round of applause. I might as well go. Thank you very much. 1234 is the time. Chris is in Waterloo. Crez. Question or answer? It's an answer. James, come on, then, I hope, anyway. Sherbet. Yeah, sorry, it's the Sherman thing. It's from. It's cockade rhyming slave. You sound like a Scouser. I know. It's bizarre. I know. It breaks all the rules of broadcasting. We're going to get a kicking. We're going to get a right spanking off of. No, I can't have a Scouser doing cockney rhyming slang on the radio. It breaks all the rules. It's from Sher, the dip equaling six. And I know this because I used to be a bar manager in London. Yeah. And I asked to. Proper cockney. A cockney. Because it baffled me. I'm not having that. It's true, honestly. The guy had. He had buttons all over the place and everything. But, I mean, were all his buttons made of pearl? Well, he claimed they were, but a Sherbert did. But I'm sure. The thing is, all my irish friends talk about having a sherbert. I think it's. I'm prepared to go. I'm led to believe. I was led to believe this because it was a question I asked someone once. Cockney rhyme and slang has battled me for years, especially the money, and that was one that I just couldn't get my head around having a sherbet dip for a sip. Should we have a few sherbets? I love it. I think it's really nice as an answer, actually, but I can't. I just think I've got an. I've got. I'm convinced that in the subcontinent, in India, you have a sherbet as a drink and it's called a sherbet. Well, you are right. I mean, I'm prepared to wait and have a clap. Round of applause. Who can go definitive on that? I mean, a full on. A proper cockney. Stop saying cockney. It's making me laugh. You have to put the ar in the middle of England. I will give you. I will give you the. Well, you'll have to share the round of applause. Applause. Provisional rounds of applause. Would we go on and have half now? Thank you. Thank you. That's all right, because I've now got an australian online saying. It's australian slang, meaning a beer derived from the frothy head of a newly poured glass of beer. That sounds rubbish. I quite like that as well. All right. This is going to be the stewards. I think this is going to be the stewards inquiry subject. So if I were you, I'd take that half round of applause to the bank. Nice and early, Craig. Thank you, mate. Mark's in hitching. Mark, question or answer? It's our question. Please carry on, mate. You know when an insect lands in your drink, like in a beer garden? I do. Does it get drunk? I like that question. Do insects get drunk? Can insects get drunk? And especially the ones that you rescue. You do your David Hasselhoff, but rescue them, then they fly away. Are they flying away drunk? I don't know. How straight is their trajectory? Well, usually a bit wobbly. That's why I'm asking. Do insects get. Insects get dry. So it's the one sort of consolation, if you get bitten by a mosquito after a scooter skinful, that the mosquito might wake up feeling as rough as you do. I love this. Do insects get drunk? Why aren't plastic all bags. Plastic bags biodegradable? Why do we call a drink a sherbet? We've had two theories on that. I don't know if we're going to be able to go definitive. How do food fads happen? For example, posh crisps, popcorn, coconut juice and cider all suddenly went from being relatively hard to find to being absolutely everywhere. Why don't we eat seagulls and anything else you've got to add to the list? Let's go to Lewis in Surbiton. Lewis, question or answer? I've got a question, James, which I'm hoping is a good one, because last I thought I had a good question, James. Yes? About my toiletries. I got shunned. I don't know if you remember. Was it. Was it? I do. It was about the message. There's a little symbol on your toiletries. You didn't understand what it was and it was bleeding obvious and you ended up making us both look stupid. You made us both look stupid. Well, at least I took you with me, James. That's why I have it. I'm sorry, mate, but go on. My question is, sometimes I'm walking past houses and I look up at the chimneys. I don't do it very often, don't go out very often. Anyways, anyways, these chimneys, they have this like, sort of sparkling little metal thing that looks like an upside down colander. And I want to know why people have these on these houses. It's to stop pigeons falling down their chimneys. Is that. Is that. Is that what it is? Is that. Well, hey. I mean, the shiny spinny ones make them less likely to land at all, but if it's over the chimney pot, it also stops any bird from ever flying down the chimney, which is a right old trail trauma, if it happens. Well, I said, well, I suppose people down, though. I mean, it's not really all for the pigeon, especially, but I mean. What. I hate to say it, James, what are your qualifications? I have heard this being asked before on mystery. Oh, I normally check the archives. That's not all on the archive. It's not. It's not a comprehensive archive. It's not exhaustive. Okay. I didn't check the archive. I thought that was me that messed up, though. James, you've also got. You've also got Occam's razor in play here, in that. It's hard to imagine there being any most obvious answer. Yeah. The simplest. Yeah. I mean, I was about to say, it's hard to imagine that. It's hard to imagine that answer being wrong. What the hell was that? Right, it's outside. Careful. I know, the bright lights, that they're quite terrifying, but that is what it is. It's all about the birds. Is that is. Okay, James, I'll take. I'll take your answer. Thank you. If someone comes on with a stewards inquiry, will you let them on? Yeah, no, no, of course I will, yeah, absolutely. I derive no pleasure. I derive no pleasure from fraudulent rounds of applause. I honestly. In fact, I'm getting so many real ones that I'd happily surrender a few. Well, take your round of applause. Thank you very much. Lewis, how the toiletries? You staying clean? Yeah, always, James. Always. Carry on. Paul Synthro. Paul, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's a question. Come on. I've been glued to the Olympics for the last week, mainly the athletics, and I was watching late last night and they all run around the track anti clockwise. Are you yanking my chain? No. All right, carry on. Why? Well, not only is this in the Mister archive, but the Internet department, I've got to start giving them. Well, they actually can't be called the Internet department. They put this out yesterday on Twitter as a great example of why mister is brilliant. From the Mister archive, this question was tweeted, I don't do Twitter. I don't do book face. I don't do twice. I don't do any of that. All right, well, if you did, you'd know the answer to the question. So what you've just proved there is how foolish you are to cut yourself off from social media. Well, I love it. I don't want it. But then you don't want the answer to this question, then. Well, I do. No, but you don't because you don't want it enough to be on the social media that the rest of the world uses to communicate information and then swap stories. You've chosen to opt out of that world. No, mate. You've made your bed, you lie in it. You've made your book face free bed, you lie in it. I'm not telling you why everyone runs around a track anti clockwise. Is it because it does a week? Oh, he's cut me off. Lovely. No, I haven't. I'm still here. Oh. Oh. I'm all right. Okay, well, come on in, James, quickly, because I'm just arriving at Heathrow. I told these pilots to stop rigging me. It's not safe. Sam's in Twickenham. Sam, question or answer? I hopefully have an answer for you, James, regarding the insects, if they can get drunk. Oh, yeah. Well, I know that bees can get drunk. Bees will sometimes find fermented nectar and they can get drunk, and there will be certain bees that seek out fermented nectar, they kind of get an alcohol addiction and they have similar rates of alcoholism as in humans. No way. Yeah, way. Are you serious? Yeah. So you get. You get booze hound bees. Yeah. Well, they have guard bees at the door. Yes. It sounds like I'm making it up. I'm not. But they're basically bouncers and if a bee has had too many, you know, is drunk, basically, they'll be pushed away and if they do too much, they'll get a leg pulled off or something. I know. I know you're telling the truth because I've read an amazing book about bees. Have you read it as well, or. No. You sound a bit more academical than that. This was just fiction. I think it's actually called bees. I've recommended it before and they do all have very specific. No, just called bees. Bees. Bees by a lady. It's a female author. It's one of the best books. I've read this in a couple of years, actually. What are your qualifications? I saw it on. There was a program called weird nature that was on years ago. Yeah. And it was really interesting and it was on that. I just remember. So they can seek out fermented nectar, but would they get kind of used a rude word there? Would they get tipsy on lager? Well, I'm not entirely sure, but I highly doubt it. I mean, they look like they drowned when they've gone in your drink. But if you could. If they drank some and got out again, I mean, presumably if they can metabolize alcohol in fermented nectar. They can metabolize alcohol in lager and cider and wine. Yeah, I think getting drunk is pretty common across all animals. Remember, if a goat or a pig eats apples that have fallen from a tree and gone a bit rotten, they can get plastered as well, can't. Well, absolutely. Round of applause for Sam. Oh, brilliant. Well played, mate. I like that. That's it. So there you go. Yes, they can. Insects can get drunk. Jason is in Richmond. Question or answer, Jason? Question, please, James. Go on, mate. I was traveling with my son and my wife, Mario, on Sunday to London and he asked a question while we're on the train, why are there all these big stones on the railway tracks? And I didn't really have an answer for him. What sort of big stones? What do we know the stones on the railroad? You know on a railway track, when you go. You're on a train, you go on a railroad track, you've got the stones alongside the railway tracks. Yes, I think so. It's just when you said big that you confused me slightly. We don't mean, like breeze block type, but the stones that the tracks sort of rest on. Yeah, that's correct. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I like that. I like the fact that your boy is asking you questions and you're thinking, I know, I'll ring. He had an answer, but I thought, now that can't be done. Oh, hang on a minute. What was his answer? His answer is they'll stop the trains from falling off the tracks, basically. Yeah, you're right. You were right to dismiss that. I hope you did it in a kindly fashion. I've traumatized the lad, made him frighten of putting his hand up in class. It's terrible. All right, so what are the stones on railway tracks for? We've done the insects. Why don't. Why aren't more plastic bags biodegradable? Given the ones for the compost bin, they're quite expensive. I think that is the answer. Origin of the phrase sherbet as a drink. Are we really going to have to stick with sherbet dip? I'm getting a lot of people telling me they can't get through, but it's linked to an arabic word or an indian word and the origin of food. Fats. Why would you come up with. Suddenly, popcorn has become really fashionable. Coconut has become really fashionable. Became really fashionable. Is it just a coincidence? Seagulls. Why aren't they on the menu? More Gary, I'll come to you immediately after this from the LBC. This always happens with rhyming. Slang. Sherbet dip says, zeph is a cockney rhyming slang for a kip. Sherbet kip. And Dom says, actually, it's for a taxi. It's a sherbet dab cab. So the drink answer, sherbet dip sip, is losing weight by the minute. We haven't got a better answer for that question, though. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And this has made my day. Craig. Actually, mate, this is a lovely little exchange we've just had. That book I recommended about bees is called the bees, and it's by a writer called Laaleen, Paul Laale. And I told you I'd recommended it before, so Craig just tweeted me. I bought this on your last recommendation. I tweeted him back to say, how did you get on with it? He said, I haven't picked up a book in 20 years, James. I bought this and read it in five weeks after your recommendation. It was a very good read. I've read two more books since. Thank you. Ah. That's made my day. That's it. My work here is done. Seriously. I've got ten more minutes, though, before Sheila Fogarty's work here starts. David is in Guilford. David, question or answer? Hey, James, it's great to talk to you. I have an answer. It's about the cowling thing. You are partially right about the pigeons. You know what that means, don't you? You're also wrong. I'm also partially wrong. I'm afraid so, matey. We had the exact same problem. We live in a victorian semi and decided to make our living room look fancy, look nice, and opened up the old fireplace. However, we were getting this cold, chill draft coming down the chimney. Yes. So called in our roofing guy who said, you need. And I. We've just had it done, so I can tell you exactly what they're called. They're called. That's one of the best things that's ever happened. I was just. You know what they say about that. You couldn't have faked that, could you, in a million years? Stay there a second. You. You rack your memory banks. I want to talk to Mark. Mark, get. Get the Ray Liotta stuff ready. All right, carry on, David. Carry on. All right. They are called revolving chimney cowls. Revolving chimney cows, yeah. And they spin in the breeze and they eradicate the downdraft, because what they do as they spin, they draw the air up and out. So I was. I wasn't even partially right. Then. Well, I mean, they will stop pigeons coming down because pigeons will go, oh, what's that spinning? They will. But that's not what they're. They are act. I didn't even know about the whole downdraft issue and stuff like that. And just. Just tell you what, if anyone's lives in the victorian semi, they will know exactly what I'm talking about. It's an evil, cold, biting wind that comes down these chin. Comes down into the fireplace. I love it. I haven't done this for a while, but just to clarify whether or not you qualify. You got your round of applause already. When exactly did you have your revolving chimney cowl installed? January. Where are we now? When it was cold? Yeah. Well, of course, you wouldn't have had it done in August, would you? So last winter? Yes. So I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Whoa. How about that? And you get a round of applause as well. Yeah, thanks, mate. Thank you, mate. And you give me the biggest laugh. I can remember having a show in a long time and God knows I have a lot. Gary's in Tulsa. Gary. Question, answer, answer. Go on, then. Go on. Lovely show. Lovely show. You're very kind. Oh, thank you, mate. I appreciate that. Yeah. The shopping bags. Well, there is an option out there. Co op provides a choice of a biodegradable shopping bag. I believe you have to ask for it at the counter. Okay. I guess, like most things, the consumer can decide on this matter, you know, it's all about appetite. So if there needs to be a few quid in it, so they won't bother pushing forward the innovation unless they're either particularly environmental, like the co op, or there's a few quid in it, or some sort of tax based incentive. But I'd like to. I'd like to think that your listeners and myself will go for the go, for the go for that co op option and perhaps encourage all the rest of the. The big names out there to provide an option also. Yeah. Supply and demand, isn't it? They do it if they felt they had to or if there was enough people who demanded. That's a lovely answer. Your qualifications are that you go to the co op sometimes, presumably. Am I going to get a round of applause? You're suggesting that you might not deserve one because your qualification is slightly patchy? No, no, it's just. It's just a big thing. It's on the bucket list, man. This is going to send me into it seems like a pretty comprehensive answer to me. I've got no beef with it. I'll just do a quick, quick straw poll in the studio. That seems pretty sad to me. Yeah, mate, seriously. Thanks, man. Thank you. Have a nice one. Yeah. 1253 is the time. Pip's in. Wolf and cross. Question or answer, Pip? Question. About a while ago, scottish cover won 150 odd million pounds. And at the same time I saw an article about for 100 million, you could collect solar energy from the moon, which would be enough to generate energy for the planet forever, which was brilliant. And then it same thing led on to Rick about lightning and why. Why don't we collect lightning energy, which is happening at any point, at any time around the planet? And it just seemed to me an incredible resource that we don't do anything about. You might have slightly misunderstood the original point about it only costing 100 million pounds to provide infinite energy, using something from the moon. Well, to get it up there and to actually be able to collect the solar energy and then send it. Solar energy from the moon. Yes. It was a better. It was better because it reflects the sun, like. Okay, well, no, I mean, I'll take your word for that. I think I might know the answer to your second question, though. Aha. Okay, go on. Lightning bolts. Yeah. When do you think the next one's gonna strike? Well, that was the thing that apparently the energy is so fantastic, it can be sort of fickle, but it would still be sort of worth having a go at trying to collect. But where is it gonna strike next? Well, so where are you going to put. Where are you going to put the collector? Now, you expect me to remember, but there's actually a geographical region where it's actually pretty much guaranteed. And it was just like how to sort of feed the world, you know, power the world. I like it. I imagine. I imagine the answer is a similar. Odd though it sounds to the biodegradable bag question, in that it's not been worth anybody's while yet. The rewards aren't big enough. The investment would be too huge. If it is technologically feasible, then you need to, you know, someone needs to be making a fortune out of it, or they need one person could do it. Yeah, maybe. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know who would be able to answer that. Why can't we harvest the energy from lightning bolts? I'll put it on the board. But it's 1255, Pip. I wouldn't hold your breath. If you do hold your breath. You've only got four minutes, though, so, you know, it could be worse. Next in Sydenham. Nick, question or answer? Good man. Hey, Saran, about the rocks or the little rocks on the. Well played, mate. I'd forgotten about that one. Yeah. What are they for? Well, the reason why is that obviously they're big. Obviously they're quite big. And obviously they're random shaped. And also, that helps with the strength. And when you've got a railway, obviously, the railway tracks will obviously weigh a heavy lot. They help with the. Not, obviously, breaking up all the shingles. If you have smaller shingles, it'll break them up. Of course, when you've got the trains going over the railway tracks, every time they go over them, obviously, that's creating a lot of down pressure. So the round, it spreads the pressure out. They strengthen it up. Yeah, I like that. It spreads the pressure out more. Yes, it spreads out, spreads it out. Less chance of it actually breaking up and all the creating dips in the track. Yeah, I love that qualifications, Nick. I actually saw it on a program of a little. No, no, no. We've already had. No, no, we've already had one of those today. You're getting around. You get argued, mate, seriously, or get a yellow card, you're getting a round of applause. But I just. For the sake of the podcast, I want to come back and re edit this bit and I'll say what your qualifications? And you will say, railway. 30 years of man and boy. 30 years on the railways. All right, okay, fair enough. What are your qualifications, Nick? Well, I actually say I was on a railway, working on the railways and for 30 years. And that's just great. 1256. He can't trust the media in this country. I've said it before, I say it again. Nails in andover. Neil. Question or answer, Neil. Hello. Hello? In your own time. Sorry, I didn't get anything on the line. I have an answer, James. Go on, then, to why we can eat raw beef. I've been. I've been a bit rubbish. I've been forgetting to do my recaps on questions. Luckily, everyone else is paying more attention than I am. Why can't we. Why do we have to cook a chicken? Yeah, I can hear you. Can you hear me? Oh, no, this is going terribly wrong. Sort Neil out, will you? I'll talk to Tom in Peckham. Question or answer, Tom. Yes, James, carry on. It's to do with the food fats. Carry on. So you sort of write to do with reducing costs and wastage, but it's also an opportunity to earn higher margins from making higher grade products. No, this is my fault again. But that's the. I think we've slightly misunderstood the question here. It's not. It's not. It's. Why do they suddenly go from being nowhere to being everywhere? Well, I'm coming on to that. If you're an apple producer, a potato producer, then you'll look at making crisps or cider because it will give you higher margins and then if one company is successful, then a load of other companies will. Then. I did understand you. I needed something a bit more sophisticated than that. And also, I mean, it is. Isn't that simple? So the Magnus cider was not prompted by apple producers, it was prompted by cider producers who were looking to sell more cider. So they would have contacted a bunch of advertising agents. It probably doesn't have an answer. It's too nebulous. But the obvious stuff doesn't help. Richard's in Birmingham. Richard, question or answer? It's an answer about why we don't eat seagulls. You've got 26 seconds to amaze us all. They're a protected species. Britain has more than the whole of the rest of the world put together and it's mankind's behavior is driving them out of their natural habitat. Round of applause for Richard. Well qualified. What are your qualifications, Richard? On the boat tour in Cardigan Bay, and the guide explained that to us. Fantastic. You can eat some gull's eggs, but you need all sorts of licenses to do so. And if you eat the ones that I ate in Padstow a few years ago, my God, you'll know about it at both ends. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. Later on from three. Is it ever right to tell a parent to keep their child quiet, especially when you don't know why the child is playing up? After two, there's disappointment around the government's childhood obesity plan. It asks, not requires, the food and drinks industry to cut 5% of the sugar in products popular with children. That's over. The next year, they're being asked politely to do that. And it calls on primary schools to deliver at least 30 minutes of physical activity a day and encourage parents to do the same. Whose job is it to keep our kids healthy? To stop them from being obese? And you'll know already, today is a level results day. But is there something.