Why do chameleons camouflage?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. I've got the bed now, so I've got to talk for a minute with the music playing in the background before we can get stuck into mister proper. So if you have a question that is in need of an answer, a who, a why, a what, a where. We haven't done this one for a while. A who, a why, a what, a when, a wherefore, even the occasional wither, then the number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 if you're not familiar with this radio feature, then I am fairly confident that you will have a proper giggle between now and 01:00 today. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then honor demands that you ring in and supply that answer, but you are not, under any circumstances, allowed to look things up, ever. That makes a mockery of the whole practice and would certainly, with even a scintilla of suspicion that you've done that, exclude you from the opportunity to win a brand new mystery hour board game, which every caller to the program can do, that is, every caller has a chance to do it. The best contribution between now and 01:00 will be the one that wins the board game. The terms and conditions are at LBC Dot co dot UK, and there is a term and condition I can tell you about. Actually, it's only if you're in the UK. Quite a lot of international calls over the years, but particularly in the last couple, and I mean just in the last out, quite a lot from the Republic of Ireland. So you. Anyway, you got to live in the UK in order to be able to win the mystery hour board game. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. I think we just crack on. Will we? I think. I can't think of anything else, can you? No. Sean's in Manchester. Sean, question or answer? Hello, James. I can't believe I'm finally speaking to you. Well, you are. Long time listener, bingo card, etcetera. Thank you, man. What would you like? Question or answer? Yeah, question, please, James, let's go. It'd be weird if it was an answer, wouldn't it? Well, people say that, but, you know, I like to keep people guessing. Yeah. So just with the passing of the queen recently, it was just a question that kind of got into my mind. I was thinking if kind of in a hypothetical, you know, world, and with all respect and everything, obviously, you sound like me last week. You're frightened of putting even the vaguest foot wrong when it comes to risk. Told me not to ask this question. Well, because it's too soon. Not that it's too soon. She just. She thought that it might come across as disrespectful or something. But I don't mean any disrespect if it does sound that way. I'm worried now because your girlfriend. Finger on the button, James. Go on, then. Let's see. I'll decide whose side I'm on. Yours or your girlfriend's. What's your girlfriend's name? Natalie. All right. Okay, Natalie, let's go. All right. So, in a hypothetical world, just if circumstances were different and the next in line for the throne was a child, like a little boy or a little girl, would that little child be crowned king or queen then? I mean, I know it's happened in history. I think there was a french king once that was, like, four or five years old, something like that. But obviously that was a long time ago. Yeah. I mean, is there a protocol in place or anything would. I don't know. Well, you have a regent, don't you know, I forget exactly what the language is. You have someone who rules in place of a sip of a cousin or until they are of an age. I'm just trying to. No one would look after it until they were 18 or something. That was what we were thinking. That's what I was thinking exactly. But, I mean, you're right. I think Natalie was worrying unduly. The reason why it seems a bit icky is because we inevitably now start imagining precisely what circumstances this would involve. But we don't need to articulate it. We don't need to say it out loud. Of course. Of course. And what are we asking? Whether or not they would become king or whether or not they would be crowned? Cause I don't know that you'd have a coronation. Henry VI, I think, was a kid when they came to the. So what would happen? What would happen? What would happen if the heir to the throne was, let's say, for the sake of argument, eight years old when the monarch passed away. Yeah, exactly. I like that. Would they be crowned? Or would it go on for, you know, until they're 18? Would someone, like, look after it and be someone in their placement? I don't know. Something like that. No. Good man. I like it. Thank you, Sean. Thank you for the. Kind words. Beautifully broken duck there on the program, on mystery hour in particular. And in the mix now for the. For the board game. What would that teach natalie a lesson? Wouldn't it. If he came away with the board game, they're trying to. Trying to rain on his parade, trying to get him to wind his neck in on that question. If the heir to the throne was eight years old and the monarch passed away, what would happen in modern Britain, in the modern United Kingdom? Zero. 345-606-0973 Leah is in Southwark. Leah, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. Leah. My fiancee and I were watching tv the other night, and the subject came up of deaf people and accents, and we were wondering, can deaf people who lip read identify accents? Oh, this rings a bell. Have we done this before? No, I hope not. How would that work? I'm just trying to think. I'm gonna do a few accents. I mean, I'm northern Irish. Are you? You don't sound it. No, I lived in England for a long time, and to be honest, I never had much of a northern irish accent to begin with. But. But there are certain words and particular words that have an o sound in them. Yeah, it just came out, and it was almost like you did it on purpose. I just. You just. Hi. Naive. Especially if I don't think about it, it comes out like I. Yeah, obviously, that's a different kind of, like, mouth movement that I make. How high? How. Brian. Kai. So my mouth now is in making different. I won't do any other word. Hi nigh. Brown coy. My mouth is making different shapes from when I go, how now brown cow. How now brown cow. Ho. No. Yeah. Oh, good question. Very good question. I shall try and find. We thought that would be a good one for you. Well, it is. I mean, whether or not we get an answer to it, I do not know. But we've had some beautiful answers to questions related to deafness over the years. But we shall have to wait and see whether we get another one today, Leah. Thank you. Hi, Nate. I'll stop now. Sorry. I'm trying to think of other accents. They do Liverpudlian because you really stretch your mouth like that, don't you? They do that, don't they? They do that, don't they? I know mine. Hi. They do that, don't they? You got to be seeing different lip move. But anyway, we'll find out. Fiso is in Truro. Fiso. Question or answer? Hi, James. I have a question. Please carry on. May I just say, your accent's almost as bad as my other halls, and she's trying to do them as well. How dare you? I was very nearly an actor. Carry on. I'm really just to be honest. Thank you very much for having me. You're welcome. I was just wondering, so you say primarily in America and stuff, but you know how they tie cans to newlywed cars? Yeah. Just wondering where that originated from. Original. I mean, literally the cans, not just the writing, just married on the back of it and tying anything. Yeah. So they'll tie, like hands when they drive off. It's all like, you know, dragging on the floor, making a bit of a clatter and stuff like that. Yeah. When did this start and why? Really? Yeah, well, yeah, I quite like that. Have you got nuptials on the horizon or anything like that? Have you been attending a lot of weddings lately? No, it was just something I saw on tv last week and I've actually been sitting on this for over a week and I've honestly been fighting myself not to google it, so I thought, okay, I'll ring in and ask you guys. So, yeah, all right, we'll try and find out for you. Maybe something that's lost in the midst of time, but somebody somewhere, must have been the first person to do it. I know what, mate? Let's tie some cans to the back of their calf. Hey. Woo. And then it caught on. I bet they're surprised. It's a bit like when the Earl of Dartmouth invented darts. I bet if he was still around today, he wouldn't be able to believe how popular it is. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. Speaking of mysteries, Jacob Rhys Marcus just claimed that some of the opposition to fracking in this country was funded by Vladimir Putin. I wonder whether the fellow's having some sort of moment. I mean, because Johnson gave him a made up job, didn't he? Minister for Brexit opportunities? That's like, you know, you give that to the kid on sports day who's going to come last in everything. You invent some new sport that the lad's going to be able to do well in. Like, we're going to have a real good top litter picker or something like that. So what can we do with Rhys Mogg? The base love him. The kind of Brexity, racist, bass love him. All the sort of Daily mail reading pensioners, they really love him because they're so deferential. They've been raised to spend their lives tugging their forelocks, doffing their caps. So, Minister for Brexit opportunities. There you go, J Dog, fill your boots. Even you won't be able to make too big a mess of that although he did very well, actually, he did do a very good job of making a mess of it, but not a complete mess. And now they've made him business secretary and he's falling apart on day one, not at the hands of the opposition, but at the hands of his own mp's. Why? Anyway, who wouldn't blame it all on Vladimir Putin? What? Back to mystery. How? Julie's in Clapham. Julie, question or answer? Hello. Hello. Hello. Good morning. How are you? Very well, thank you. Yes, we're all very well. Good. And I have a very important question for you. I really want the board game, but that's not really what I'm at here. I'm trying to settle a domestic, okay? So I think that making tea, using a kettle is the only way to go. My partner says, because of the energy crisis, that kettles should be done away with and we should all be making tea in the microwave. I say that it's absolutely disgusting. Making tea in the microwave. Exactly. Fundamentally, it's wrong. It tastes different. And he tells me I have no scientific basis to make the statement, it tastes different. It looks different. How does it look different? You really have to help me. How does it look different? It kind of looks a bit. Kind of unappealing. Like the water's not boiled fully, like there haven't been big bubbles. Do you. Do you. Do you do it mug by mug? I do it with a kettle. In a mug. I don't really like a teapot, but. No, no, you don't put in the microwave. You put a mug in the microwave. Well, that's what he's supposing. No, I just need to get. I know how to make tea, not I know how to make tea using a kettle. I'm just. And does he put the. He puts the bag in after he takes the mug out of the microwave, but he doesn't drink tea. But he tells me that everyone that drinks tea should do it in the microwave. There's your answer, then. I thought so, too. I mean, I'll try and find you a scientist to explain why he's wrong, but the fact that he doesn't even drink it himself. You're drinking. There's no way that's going to work. I don't know why, necessarily. Possibly because of the. I can't believe I'm trying to come up with a scientific answer to this question off the top of my head. It might be because of the conduction scenarios, but you know and I know it's just gross. And also, you're going to have a really hot mug. Yeah, it's just. It's wrong. Okay, well, all right. I'm not here to. I don't want to make a habit of settling domestics. I think it pollutes the purity of mystery out. But I will try to get you a scientific explanation of why making. Heating your water in a mug in a microwave to make your cup of tea is going to have a deleterious effect on its flavour. Well played, Julie. I actually feel for you. Actually, I resist. Resist. Seriously, stick up for yourself. 21 minutes after twelve is the time Ola is in Stratford. Ola, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Ola. Why do chameleon change to different color of object that comes close by to it? What? Why the chameleons change color? Yes. Okay. Yeah, I think. Okay, I think. I think I know this. Okay. I would love to know the answer. I think I'm going to tell. I think I'm going to tell you. Okay. I want you to imagine a chameleon, okay. Sitting on a blue table. Okay. The chameleon is currently green. Yes. Now I want you to imagine an eagle flying in the sky overhead. The eagle looks down, it has. It has eagle eyes and it sees. What does it see on the. On the blue table? The chameleon. What color is the chameleon? Green, initially. And now the chameleon has turned blue. What does the eagle see on the table? What does he say? Yellow and blue. Yeah, but can the eagle see the blue chameleon against the blue background of the blue table? That's a bit tricky, no. Well, that's your answer. That's why they change color according to their background. Oh, so what if it's black? Black? Yeah. And you go look at it and it turns. Something passed by, which is red and it turned to red. Yeah. I mean, it's not foolproof. Chameleons still get eaten. But the simple question of why they change color to match their background is to avoid, is to hide from predators. It's camouflage. So what's the mystery behind it that come off like that? You can't answer that question. You're allowed one question. I can't talk you through the chemistry or the biology of it, I've merely talk you through the efficacy of it or the reason behind it. Okay, thank you very much. No, thank you very much, Ola, and I look forward to your next call. I think I'll have a round of applause for that. John's in maidenhead. John, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, John. So ever since the Olympics, I've had this burn in. In the back of my mind and I thought about calling up a couple of times and people have, like, said similar things, but I don't think it's been quite the same. So I'm wondering how far along our human potential we are, physically and mentally. Me too. So I'm thinking, you know, Usain Bolt has done so far in the hundred meters, but how fast could we. How fast can we run if we are the Ivan Drago of performance? And then when it comes to the mental side, same thing, like how, you know, if Einstein was XIQ, how far can we go? And let's not overcome. We're gonna have to pick one area. So I think we're just gonna have to pick running human performance. Well, no, that's not one area. That's every area, the human condition. How far? There's gonna be different answers, isn't there? I mean, it's about whether, in a way, you're asking whether evolution has finished. No, I don't think so. I think current homo sapiens, if we evolve, then that might have a whole bunch of future fun to come with it. I'm thinking current homo sapiens, you know, in its simplest question, how fast can we possibly run? No, no, stop it. You can't do both questions, can you? You know, it's the same question, James. It's not the same question radio presenters get. It's not. Well, that is the same question, actually, and we all know the answer to that already. I mean, maximum speed, because you've got this different with your brain, you've got, you know, that old nugget about there being parts of your brain that you're not using, that all that kind of. But being so, is. Does the human have a maximum speed, is the question, in a way, it's a question, and if you can get someone to answer any one of them, I'll take that. But it's that kind of thing, like, yeah, when you think of the four minute mile and how excited everyone got about the four minute mile or the ten second hundred meters, and now you wouldn't even get. You and I share a lot of tennis and a few. I don't know if you've ever played with a wooden racket. Of course, they're really difficult. Really, really difficult. And to think about banging down 150 miles an hour wooden racket, or hitting the kind of the little slice and touch shots that then come back over the net because there's so much spin on them, it just wouldn't happen. So it's the same thing. If you think of the human body as an instrument or a racket or a tool, then does it reach its maximum? Because of course, you could wear springs on your feet to run faster. But we're ruling all that out. That's technological innovation. Human, natural, human. We're talking no bionics, we're talking no chips. We're talking perfect in a test tube on a country farm. Private, educated, super performance. Got all the gels, got all the. All the food. Never has maximum speed. They're not supposed to. Perfect human. Yes. What can we do? Maximum speed. Thank you, John. Let's find out what is. I mean, is there. Is it? Or are we always going to be able to just shave another hundredth of a second off it by training differently or working harder? John's in Maidenhead, but Gareth is in Portsmouth. Gareth, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Hope you're well. It's actually a question. Please carry on, Gareth. It's from my seven year old son. He asked me a question the other day that I couldn't answer and I thought it'd be a perfect one for mister hour. And if you can answer it, hopefully one of your listeners can. He looked up and he asked, why are waiters called waiters when it's not them waiting for the food? It's us. It's him. He's waiting for the food, isn't it? It is. Well, why are they called servers? Or, you know, why waiters? Is it? And it baffled me, so I thought, I'll give you a shout and see if you can find out for me. Well, there's two different kites of weight, and your son has stumbled across the distinction in a quite perfect fashion. There's weight for. And there's weight on, isn't there? Yeah, of course. Yeah. So we wait for the food, but the waiter waits on us. That's true. So I guess I don't know whether it means that he's waiting for us to give our orders, or waiting for us to ask for something else, or waiting for us to finish so he can clear the plates away, but he is waiting on us and we are waiting for food. So I don't know. I know what seven year olds are like. I don't know if he's going to be satisfied with that answer. Well, we'll soon find out. Well, it's up to you, dad. Are you going to accept it or are you going to. I mean, how's that? I think we probably should, actually, just for you. Just for your lad's sake. What's his name? His name's Owain. I think Owain would be cross with us if we didn't, actually. Especially given it was his. It was his feast day earlier this week, wasn't it? It was. There we go. Look at that. Keeping my welsh listeners happy. Finally. Finally, you kept on saying, owen, and I did text you in that day saying, my seven year old will be mad because it's. Oi. I've made up for that now as well. This is just all happening now. So we will whine, we will find out. Well, we shall try. Other than that, I'll take. I'll take the round of applause because it is a semantic distinction between wait for and wait on, but I'll definitely leave it out there for a more informed or complex answer. Andrew's in Sydenham. Andrew, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Andrew. So, I hope it's relevant to the current cost of living crisis and I hope Jack Monroe will be proud of me. So, I'm about to go to the supermarket and, like, I'm sure many people have had gone shop in the reduced to clear section. Yes. Which has meats and things that run out today with their sell by use by date. Right. If I freeze them today and when I defrost them in a week's time, have I bought myself any extra time to use the food? Or is it just the clock starts ticking again the moment it comes out of the freezer? What makes you think you might have bought some extra time? Well, I wonder if it's frozen, some kind of rotting process in the food that's happening at the moment and it might paused it for a while and. Oh, okay. Yeah. So the enzymes would sort of start again. They'd be. Rather than just picking up where they left off, they would have been rewound slightly or something like that. So, yeah, freezing food on the day of expiry. Do you have. Do you have to eat it on the day that it defrosts? Yeah, I like that question, actually. And it is very helpful. It may prove to be helpful in the. In the cost of living crisis. Yeah. Thank you, Andrew. Top Man 12:30 is the time. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1234. Let me run through the question, still in search of an answer. If the heir to the throne in Britain in 2022 was eight years old and the monarch, the reigning monarch, sadly passed away, what would happen? Can lip readers identify accents. When did we start tying tin cans to the back of wedding cars? Why? I'm going to change Julie's question because the premise of it is so obvious, I think. Why does tea taste different when you boil the water in the microwave? No, I can't change the question. All right. Does tea taste different when you boil the water in a microwave instead of a kettle? Will humans ever have a maximum speed? Will we ever reach a maximum speed? Why are waiters called waiters when it's the customers that do the waiting? And if you freeze some meat, if you freeze some food on the expiry date, is it exactly where it was when you froze it, when you defrost it? Or do you actually gain some extra consumption time? That's my lot. That's all I've got. Zero. 345-606-0973 Tom's in Rochdale. Tom, question or answer? Good afternoon, Jing. Hello, Tom. Got a question for you. Carry on. I play football and I play football all my life. I'm an outfield player, right. But goalkeeping top is always bigger than the outfield player top in length. And I don't know why is it? It is. I'm only asking because my dad recently got back from America. Yeah. And he brought me back a goalkeeping top and a normal football top. But I put them both on. Not at the same time, but the goalkeeping top is an extra three, four inches longer. I think I know why. Go on. Well, I used to be a goalie. I mean, a long time ago, right? And bizarrely, I was clearing out some boxes the other day looking for some paperwork so I can get an irish passport. It's turning into a right old saga. And I found some old school photos of me and the football team at school and I am the only person whose shirt is not tucked in. Right. And I'm the goalie. Right. So the goalie doesn't tuck his shirt in, does he? Because he's jumping. No. Is that not the answer? I think that's the answer because the goalie's jumping around all the time and he's not going to have his shirt tucked in. Whereas outfield players quite often have their shirts tucked in. Usually have their shirts tucked in. So if you're a goalie, you're going to need a little bit of longer shirt. Otherwise everyone will be able to see your midriff. No. You're not buying that? No. Because the normal football top still covers you. Not if you like, you know, when. I mean, I. Perhaps you need some help. Envisage what I was like as a goalkeeper. I mean, I would leap, Tom. I would leap across the goldman. I mean, it's a pretty good. I mean, it's based on the photograph I literally was looking at two days ago. And it did even cross my mind that my shirt was bigger than the others, but not longer. But it was just longer. Also, goalkeepers are generally taller than outfield players. Yeah, of course. Yeah. So it might be that as well, but from when I played football and I still play now, it's even younger. The goalkeeping top is a slightly longer, even though anyone could wear it. You know what I mean? Well, that'll be back to the diving and ducking and diving answer, wouldn't it? So it's going to be 52% ducking and diving, 48%. Probably taller. Yeah. Okay. Well, you don't sound satisfied. Oh, what do you want from me? I mean, what else could it be? See, that's it. I don't know. All right. And you're still not happy, are you? I can tell I'm slightly happy. It's an answer. Yes, but not necessarily. I'll ponder on it. I'll ponder on it. I'll leave it, I'll put it in brackets because I'm not, I'm not. I'm not being an applause hound today, but I think it's going to be. I thought it was to do with the jumping, but then. Well, then leave. Forget the jumping and go for the. Go for the taller, then go for the size then, rather than the medium goalkeeping top and a medium outfield top. The goalkeeper top is going to be longer. All right. Why are goalkeeping tops long? I mean, maybe we'll get. We need to go full on this, don't we? We need to get someone who makes them. It's no good us just speculating or thinking about it or, or, you know, pontificate. Someone who makes outfits, makes strips. Makes football strips. Why do you make the goalkeeping strip longer than the outfield player strip? That's a good. That's a good question. There we go. Let's do it. It's a good question. It's your question. Thank you, Tom. 1239 is the time. I could do some answers now. Judy's in Littlehampton. Judy, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Carry on. You had a question about whether a lip reader can identify accents? Yes, I am a lip reading teacher. I am quite deaf, so I rely on lip reading a lot to help. Okay. And I don't think you can identify accents. But I can certainly tell if I'm talking to someone who doesn't have the same accent as me or an accent as someone that I'm used to. So just as an example. Sorry, I'm a bit out of breath because I've been in the car. You have? All the time in the world. Okay. I had a lady in my class who came from somewhere in the Midlands. I can't quite remember where, further north than the Midlands. And we say bath. She would say bath. Yes. And if you look at that in the mirror, they look quite different. So I would know that she was speaking in an accent that wasn't my normal one. But I don't know that I'd be able to identify that she came from Manchester or Liverpool or Ireland or anywhere else. But you knew that. It's different to what I'm used to. Yeah. But you knew she was saying bath in the context of the sentence, right? Yes. Because when you're lip reading, your brain is working a little bit harder than when you're just listening, isn't it? You're putting much harder. Yes. Oh, I love that. It's a perfect answer. Okay, good. No, thank you, Judy. I'm going to give you a round of applause. I mean, a lot of people will be wondering how you're hearing me now, as it were, if you don't mind me asking. Oh, I'm hearing you. Well, I have profound hearing loss in one ear, severe in the other, so I can hear, but it's very difficult to identify precisely the meaning. I have a gadget I wear around my neck, which is my mobile phone, which you're on here. Goes directly by Bluetooth to this gadget and that's transmitted to my hearing aid. Fantastic. So I'm not hearing anything else in the room. I'm getting the sound from the radio directly in my ears. So you will hear your. I would not really be able to hear it. So you will hear your round of applause. Oh, great. Thanks. Splendid. Thank you, Judy. Thank you. Thank you. You can get back in the garden now. 1241 is the time. Guy is in Forest Hill. Guy. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. The answer to your frozen food question. You don't get any extension on the on the shelf life. You don't reverse that degradation by freedom. No qualifications. I've been a chef for about 20 years and I used to be in charge of food safety for a very large pub group. Sounds reasonable. And in fact, it often says, doesn't it, that eat within 24 hours of defrosting. Defrosting, yeah. So that is a fair. If it's a raw product that you can cook, you'll change the dynamics of the food so that you can. You can kind of reset the clock in that way. But if it's ready to eat, no, you don't get any extension. Round of applause, I think, for Guy. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Lovely stuff. 1242 is the time. We're picking them off now. Duncan's in Sutton. Duncan, question or answer? Here's a question, James. So there's extraterrestrial life? Not yet. Yeah. Not as yet. Contact, as we're told. But is there a Greek told Duncan? Yeah. Is there an agreed protocol between the various space agencies, between the nations that have a space program, who would lead? And it would be the, presumably the United nations. What's the strategy for dealing with it? What, you mean if alien life makes contact with humanity, what's protocol? Yes, that we can understand. You know, I'm not sort of series of dots and sort of thing would take a thousand years to work out, which probably. Well, if they. If they arrived and said, take me to your leader, who would we take them to? Is what you're really asking. Absolutely. If you take it. If you put it in such black and white terms. But I'm presuming it wouldn't be that. What would be the. What would be the strategy? When was it devised? I mean, there's a whole series of questions linked into it, but keeping it to simple terms and. Yeah, you know, who has it, who leads on it and I suppose, how often? Isn't there an international space agency or something like. Well, I don't know if that would be it. Well, everyone would assume NASA would, but Chinese. And we're presumably the Russians if they're international. Not, not, not. Well, anyway. Well, I don't know why I'm got a clue. I'll find out. All right. Okay. Stick it out. I mean, obviously there's a Ray Liotta here for any actual aliens who are listening, isn't there? Ray Liotta just waiting to be picked off? Yep, yep, yep. There's a few parts of London I could suggest they may have greater input for that we shall discover. Thank you. So coming out to quarter to one. So again, we need the aliens question. What's the protocol if they visit the goalkeeping shirts? Question. I like that one a lot. All the way from Rochdale. Why are they longer freezing food on the day? We have now dealt with boomf. Waiters waiting. Why are waiters called waiters. Will humans ever have a maximum speed tea in the microwave? Weddings and cars done. The lovely lip reading and accents. And monarchs. What happens if a child gets to the. If the heir to the throne is eight years old and the reigning monarch passes away? Should we squeeze in another one? Yeah, let's do it. Tim's in Harlow. Tim, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Why does tea taste different when it comes from a microwave rather than from a kettle? Yes. The answer is dissolved oxygen. So if you heat water in a kettle, then the water is in contact with a surface which is at about 150 degrees centigrade, so that drives more oxygen out of the water, which is in contact with that, whereas in a microwave, it's only ever at something approaching 100 degrees centigrade. So you have a great degree of dissolved oxygen. That means that it isn't actually any better or worse. It just tastes different than the one you're used to if you've heated it in the microwave, I mean. Well, yeah, that's you being a scientist, because it is better. It's much nicer out of the kettle, so it's almost everybody. But you're not going to bring a value judgment in onto something that is essentially chemistry? No, no, I'm a tea agnostic. I like it. Yeah, I like it. But Julie isn't. She's adamant that the tea is going to taste a heck of a lot better the more oxygen it's got in it. Well, if she tried Earl Grey, she might find that a much more delicate sort of. You still wouldn't want microwave water for your Earl Grey, would you? Well, it does taste different, James. That's. That's the point. The tea tastes different. But no. Well, maybe you've got a point. We used to have, yeah. Anyway, you've got the round of applause. Well, hang on. What are your qualifications? I'm a building services engineer. So you work with boilers? I do, yes. It's a joke there that I don't think I can make in the current. I'll spend all day with a bunch of old boilers. Hey, a round of applause for Tim. Thank you. Thank you. It's 1246, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1249. I don't really submit questions of my own during mystery hour. And, in fact, this would be a phone in topic rather than a mystery hour question. But how on earth. Why on earth are Holly Willoughby and Philip Schofield still getting gyp for that visit to the queen lying in state the other day. Unbelievable. Still trending on Twitter. Although the problem with trending on Twitter is that the numbers are often very, very low. Luckily, otherwise it'd be really hard to do 2382 at the moment. But they're still there. Hashtag Ollie and Phil. And the tweets are still pouring in. I guess people you know. Well, anyway, that would be my question, but we're not doing it today. Raising Orpington. Oh, hang on, I've got some science. First. Ian has done this for us. He goes, in the interest of science, I'm making tea using a microwave. I used a jug of water, half a liter of water in a jug. It took seven minutes to boil in a 240 volts microwave. I then poured from jug into mug with teabag and can report no difference in taste. I can believe that. I don't know why, but it seems to me that doing it in the mug versus the jug. Anyway, we need an energy expert to say whether it's the eco option or not. Yeah, different question, but I thought I'd share it because it's science. So our expert has confirmed that there will be a difference in taste because of oxygen or something, but whether or not that changes depending on how much water you put in the microwave or something, I do not know. I do know, however, that ray is in Orpington. Question or answer, Ray. Answer. Carry on. A child would become king or queen the moment the sovereign dies. If he or she is heir apparent, the king is dead. Long live the king. Henry VI became king at six months old and Edward Vi became king when he was Prince George's age, nine. He did. And did they have coronations? That's what I was going to come on to, because, of course, first of all, traditionally, well, a regent would be appointed until they came of age, I guess, traditionally would have been 21. The regent traditionally would be the kings. The former king's brother, if available. Right. If there were none, then a trusted lord. That's why you get. In the case of Edward V, he was about twelve. They were the princes in the tower. Of course, he and his younger brother Richard, I think it was, were bumped, thought to be. It's very controversial area, thought to be bumped off by the regent, Richard III, of course. So that is what would happen until they came. When it comes to a coronation, it seems a bit. I mean, if. I don't know that Henry VI was. Actually had a coronation, of course, coronation is not essential. I mean, Edward VIII was never crowned. It was intended to be, but he didn't last long enough as king. This is correct. So it's not essential, but one. So I would guess that, for instance, we saw Prince George attend the funeral. So it wouldn't be inconceivable, as it was in the case of Edward VI, that if you're nine, you can stand up. Right. And you can have a crown on you. But what I think is interesting is interesting in recent times has not been inconceivable that a situation could have arisen when the regent would either be Prince Andrew or Prince Harry. There's a thought for the listeners. Or Prince Philip. Yes. Yes. Prince Philip could have been, but he didn't. He didn't have the blood royal. No, I know he didn't. But you and Prince Harry do. Yes. Gosh, you're right. There is some food for thought, mate. Qualifications? A teacher went to Cambridge, did it. English literature. It's all there. It was all there. Drawing on your Shakespeare knowledge and your history and all of that. Always had. A round of applause for Ray, please. Thank you, Ray. Well played. Great answer. I'll just add that to my records. Peter's in Dudley. Hey, James. Hello, Peter. Answer. And far be it for me to disagree with you on anything, but on your earlier answer, I'm afraid it is codswallop and I have to pick you up on it, I'm afraid. Can guess which one it is. Is it the one that I was the most supercilious and condescending about? Absolutely. It was definitely that one. I nearly said. I nearly said. When I am being this condescending to a questioner, I almost always turn out to be wrong. But I thought, there's no way I'm wrong about chameleons. No, you are. I'm afraid so. Common misconception that it's about camouflage. Almost. I almost thought you did it on purpose. Change. But it's not about camouflage. It's about two things. Number one, it's about temperature regulation. And the second one is about communication with other chameleons. So. Are you kidding me? No. So it's about that. So, you know, I guess it's got nothing to do with hiding from predators. No, not at all. No, there's no evidence for that at all. And there's no evidence for it. If you put a chameleon in front of a green finger on a blue table, as you suggested, it will turn blue. It will only turn blue if it needs to change its temperature or if the, let's say, the lady comedian or the male comedian that they are trying to attract likes to come qualifications. I was ill for six months with long COVID and I watched about 20 series of Qi, so that's the only qualification. And it came up on there, did it? And no doubt. What's his chops? The fellow that Alan Davis. He said what I said and the alarm went off. I think so. And it's one of those ones that my jaw dropped because I was like, well, mine just did. I've been sold a lie all my life. And poor old Ola. Ola asked a brilliant question, got treated quite condescendingly by the radio presenter and then sent away with a flea in his ear. Yeah. So I have to defend him, I'm afraid, James. So I apologize to Ola. I think I let Ola down. I think I let you down, Peter. But most of all, I think I let myself down. That's all right. It's all good. Thank you. Thank you for being so gentle. No worries. Oh, boy. And everyone on Twitter who was laughing at the lad as well. Yeah, yeah. Think on Will's in Worthing. Will. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Will. It's to the goalkeeper shirt and the length of it. Yeah. Now, my thinking is it's based. I think you're almost right before, with the length of it being. Yeah, they have it untucked, but I think it's more of you. It's longer for the reason that you need it tucked in where you used to anyway, but you want to keep it tucked in. So if you're a goalkeeper, you're stretching for the top corner, the rest of it trying to make the save. If it's the extra length, it stays tucked in. It's a bit like a dress shirt that's always a bit longer than. Yeah, so it stays tucked in. I think it's less of a thing now because lots of goalkeepers have them untucked anyway and they're short sleeve anyway. Qualifications. It's tenuous. But I used to be a goalkeeper and I worked in menswear for a little bit, and that's. So did I. We're practically related. How long did you work in menswear for? Oh, very. It was only like. Like a department store. Nothing major for a couple years. Oh, same here. It's a small world, isn't it? A goalkeeper who worked in menswear there. We could start a band. They're tucking in stuff. Are we sure about that? Because Wayne Embassildon used to be. I think he still plays a bit, actually. Old Wayne and he texted me to say, try tucking in your shirt when you've got your gloves on. Well, I thought about that. I looked at pictures of the legend, Neville Southall, and his shirt's always tucked in. Yeah, but he was a particularly well turned out player. I had Andy Burnham on full disclosure yesterday, coming out next week, talking about that era of Everton. They were winning everything, weren't they, at that time? All right, I'm going to give it to you. I'm going to give it. So it's one. One or the other. It's either because it is because goalkeeper. So actually, we're both right. The question is, why are goalkeepers shirts longer than outfield players? And the answer is because they jump about so much and it keeps it tucked in or not. Well, I think it would. I do too, now. But still, you didn't need to add the second bit for the question to actually get over the line, because they jump around so much. Yeah, we'll ignore that last bit, then. Yeah. Round of applause for will. Vicky's in Hounslow. Last one, probably. Question or answer, Vicky. Hi, Jane. Hopefully it's going to be an answer. So, as far as the question with regards to whether or not humans have maximum potential. Maximum potential. Do you know, as we asked the question of whether or not humans have reached their maximum potential, Sheila Fogarty walked into the studio. So, as if an answer on two legs. There it is. Go on, quickly, we've only got 30 seconds. What's it going to be, Vicky? So, basically, it's up to the resources that are available to us. So, say, for instance, if you look at the evolution of dinosaurs, they reach their maximum capacity because they're eating everything around them. And if you look at human beings, we have technology to assist us with certain things, so it's going to limit us as far as the actual evolution that we're going to need. So whatever necessary. Oh, so because we stopped evolving, or because we've got so much technology, we're unlikely to evolve? Well, it's a certain direction. It will be a different type of evolution. Whether or not it's something that will help us to reach our maximum potential, totally dependent on our choices, qualifications, AP biology students. So it was like a first year in biology. You can have a round of applause. There we go. Oh, thank you. Oh, you're very, very welcome. Well, I mean, I have to give the game to Ola, don't I? Now, really, I don't know whether he's going to want it or not. Much after the way he was shabbily treated on this program. I missed the answer. What was the answer? To the chameleon? I thought. What? You thought? Yeah. It's all about temperature regulation and mood and communicating with other chameleons. It's got nothing to do with a bit like menopausal women. Don't come near me. I was going to do a karma chameleon joke now, but you've robbed me of momentum. I'm sorry.