Why does Prince Edward have so many uniforms? - 25 Jun 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time, and I feel most weeks. It's nice, isn't it, to get to mystery hour? It's a bit like doing lessons outside when the sun's out or something like that. You know that the other 14 hours of the week are crucial and important, and I do my best to make them as interesting as I can. But there is something about this hour. It's this Thursday lunchtime hour that we spend together that feels a little bit de mob, doesn't it? A little bit end of term. So why, if you're new to it, would I describe it in such glowing terms? The answer is that you'll learn something and you'll laugh in the course of the next hour. If you don't, I will give you a full reading. The price of entry. You will learn something and you will laugh, possibly even out loud. Whether or not what you learn is remotely useful, that I'm afraid I cannot guarantee. It's this. It's the radio equivalent of the newspaper columns, where someone writes in with a question, why do we do this? What's the origin of that? Where does that come from? What's that? I saw this, I didn't understand it. Who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence, wherefore and so on. And then a couple of days or weeks or months later, someone else writes in with the answer. And that's it. Actually, although you'll have to trust me when I say it's the travelling that constitutes the fun of the fare more than the actual destination. If you've got a question, then wait till you hear me say the phone number. There aren't any phone lines free at the moment, but because there are two rules, there will be some phone lines free in a couple of minutes time. Those two rules are you're not allowed to be boring. And I know that's a little unfair and possibly even rude, but if it's a dull question, for example, about parking tickets or motoring or something like that, if it's a question to which it's highly unlikely, the majority of people listening will want to know the answer once they've heard the question, you might be politely invited to move along. And similarly with repetition, which is even less of your fault, because you don't know what we've done before over the months or years. But if we can remember relatively recently dealing with the question you've got, again, you'll be politely invited by Sandra or Michael to, to move along and make room for the next caller. So that's it, I think. Six minutes after toll, should we crack straight on? I think we should this week. Yeah. Cool. Martin is in Bexley Heath. What's your question, Martin? Hello, James. How you going? You know, you see the royal family at Buckingham palace on the balcony, all in their military uniforms. Occasionally you see Prince Edward there as well, wearing what looks like a military uniform. Does that represent anything or has he just found the keys to the dressing up box? Prince Edward at least had a go at joining the royal Marines, didn't he? Bowed out, didn't he? But he's further than we got, Marty. Well, I can't speak for you. It's further. It's a hell of a lot further than I got. Well, it's Prince Charles the other day as well. Do you know, do you know, like golden ropes? Yeah. There's only two places I've ever seen golden ropes in my life. One is on an old lady's curtains, you know, and they've got that golden rope holding their curtains back. And the other is on, is on Prince Charles's shoulders whenever he's doing ceremonial duties. He's got more uniforms than the village people. It is funny, but I just thought, like, Prince Edward being the one, I've seen it. They're sort of like not the right color, you know, there might be a sort of. Well, he's almost certainly commander in chief of a regiment or two, so it'd be an honorary. Well, lots of people are full lock tugging, deferential quotes, patriotic, end quote. So Edwards, because I've got more of a problem with Prince Charles walking around dressed like action man than I have with Prince Edward. Prince Edward was funny because he dropped out of the commando so famously. Do you know what I mean? Yes, I know, but no, he'll be commander in chief. I don't, I don't know what of. Do you want me to check? I mean, or are you going to take that as a. You might have been charged with knives and forks in the kitchen. You never know. Should we do. I've got a run as Martin as a side order this hour. Where else have you seen golden ropes, old lady's curtains and Prince Charles's shoulder? Okay. It means I get a round of applause, though, they right, don't I? What? Why? Well, he's a commander in chief of regiments. All right. Okay. Take the round of applause back then. Until we find out. Can we do it? Can we take it back in any way? We got a sound effect for a reversed round of applause. Like the sound of two hands coming apart. Martin. Thank you. Great start. Dave's in Orpington. Dave, question or answer? There's a question, please. All right. Cheer up, Dave. I'm alright. Have fun. Down. I'm stuck in your little booth there. I might open the window if you're good. Go on. What have you got? Okay. I was wondering why Hare Krishna worshippers wear orange. I know another color question. The last one wasn't a color question. The uniform. I know the answer to it, but I've already. I remember them from the eighties. They used to go on the little bongo drums. They still do. You still. You come up near Soho Square in central London. They've got a restaurant there and you often find them dancing with their symbols. Harry Hari, Hare Krishna. I've been tempted to join in occasionally, not necessarily while sober. When misses O'Brien was pregnant and because we had quite a lot of difficulty getting pregnant, we ended up in all these sort of new age places. I do have a vague memory of one of the new age people. Not the one that told me that I needed to drink horse's milk in order to supercharge my. Anyway. But get lots of orange flowers when she's lying in bed pregnant because it's very calming. Orange is a very calming color and that's it. I think it's a bit color though, isn't it? Orange? I'm not taking a round of applause for that, Dave. Obviously it's a sister, but that, that is probably something to do. It is quite a bright color, but it's quite calming. You know, you wouldn't look at orange and feel oppressed or depressed, would you? You'd always feel a little bit uplifted by orange, wouldn't you? Yeah. Besides pink, pink's nice calming color. Pink is quite a nice calming color. I don't know that it's quite as calming as oranges, though. Nice yellow. Oh, there's always yellow. Yeah. Purple. Purple, yeah. Again, something else that's been ruined by you, Kip. Dave, I will do my best to get you an answer to that question. And if I do, the round of applause will be for the caller, not indeed for me. Zero 345-606-0973 is a number to call. Why do Harry Krishna's wear orange? Why does Prince Edward get a military uniform? Alex is in Guildford. Question or answer? Alex. It's a question. Yes, hi. Just before I say anything, I just want to apologize to anyone that's about to eat their lunch or anything like that. No. How did you get through with something that needs that kind of caveat? I think the lady I spoke to, she's just about to eat what I'm going to talk about. She's quite new. I hope you haven't taken advantage of her goodwill. Maybe what it is. I just want to know why, with our bowel movements, that when we eat sweetcorn, that although when we go a toilet, just say, why can't we digest sweet corn properly? We don't. But I know, like, all the bad stuff comes out there. Why do you want to talk about. You sound like a pervert now. You sound weird. We got the question. I really don't. Yeah. Why is it hard to digest sweet corn? That's all you need to say? You don't need to start drawing pictures. I want to get so ridiculed for this at work. Well, the answer is easy as well. Yeah, go on. Is the skin's really thick. Yeah. And that's it. Yeah. Same reason that if you. If you. Same reason if you took a bite out of a rubber that would also pass through your body on more or less untouched. What about grapes? They've got quite a thick skin. Yeah. But you never swallow a grape hole, do you? Although in your case, Alex. In your case, I'm tempted to recommend it. That is the answer. That is the answer. And there's a lesson there for all of us. Round of applause, please. Thank you very much, Alex, mind how you go. And also, if you're worried about it, just chew more. Shahid is in Bo. Shahid. Question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Go on, Shahid. Okay, so, basically, I was at the ATM today. I was withdrawing some money. Yeah. And this is a thought that's come to me quite often. Yeah. How much money is there in your average atm? So, like, I mean, obviously there are different types. There's. There's the little one. You mean just the main one stuck on the side of a bank? Yeah. Like a hole in the wall. Yeah. Um, yeah, just back up a minute. Pad. All right. What? Go on. What have you got planned? Uh, what do you mean? What day or lifetime? Well, I think, you know what? I'm driving, actually. What? Struggling a bit at the moment, are we? You're looking for. Looking for a bit of a payday. Looking for a bit of a payday, yeah. Yeah. Investing in a forklift truck. Is it shaheed or something like that, mate? Is it? Is it? No. Look, I've just graduated, James. I don't do that. All right, then, so you just. It's just an academic interest, you're not. You know, I'm thinking student loans, mate. A lot of graduate debts these days. You could just see yourself out, dig yourself out of a hole with a little bit of smash and grab. That's not me, I'm afraid. Academic interest, James. Are you sure about Ashley? Because, I mean, theoretically, you would not actually admit to your nefarious plans, would you? Just because I'd called you on them, you'd be bound to say, oh, no, it's not me at all, James. No, James, not in a million years, James. Now, that is far too clever for me to answer. How much money is there in a full one? So after they finish filling it up, how much is in it? That's a good way of asking it. Yeah, there we go. So, yeah, all right. And someone will know that, because someone listening to this will do this for a living. That's not a conceited statement. There is. All human life is here, but they may be prevented from telling us for security reasons. I don't know how much money is in an average just filled up cash point atm. Why do Harry Krishnas wear orange? What? What was the first one? Why does Prince Edward wear a military uniform? And how much money is there in a recently filled atm? Shall we? I think we can squeeze in one more. Tracy's in stone. Stone where? Stone in Staffordshire. In Staffordshire? Yes. Your local mp is a good friend of mine. Here's Bill Cash. Yeah, we love Bill Cash. Carry on. Well, I hope it isn't sort of a too dodgy question to ask for radio. Actually, hang on a minute. It's not about sweetcorn, is it? No, no, no, not at all. All right, come on. If you were to murder someone. Whoa, hang on, Shahid. Just nicking cash points. What have you got planned? Nothing. It's not a loaded question. It's just out of interest, if you were to murder someone and you were named in their will to inherit from them, would you still be entitled to get the money? Or is there something in law that stops you from sort of gaining from your crime? I find it hard to believe that this question has just popped up into your mind, unprompted. Tracy. And you sound like such a husband isn't listening. Yes. Or your grandma, or your mum, or indeed anybody you ever come across in your life who might be tempted to leave you a few trinkets. It was just out of interest whether you can actually, you know, for instance, what would stop you putting all that money into a high interest account before you went to prison and then coming out a very rich person. I, um. I like this question. I'm fairly sure, as I'm sure you are as well, that you can't benefit from a. I'm sure you can't. If you are convicted of the murder of someone, you can't benefit from their will. But we need it definitive, don't we? We need a lawyer or something like that to tell us. Yes, definitely. Okay. Good work, Tracy. Thank you. Give my love to bill if you see him, won't you? I will do. 1250. This is LBC Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 20 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you're just joining us, well, what we've got is two callers who've given me quite serious concern about their criminal plans. Shahid wants to know how much money there is in the average recently filled cash point, while Tracy wants to know whether or not you can inherit money from someone you've murdered if you're named in their will. So I, during the travel news, suddenly had this terrible image of Shaheed pulling off his massive cash point robbery later today, leaving a will in which all the money is left to Tracy, at which point Tracy, of course, does him in. Maybe that's just the way my mind works. Why do Harry Krishnas wear orange? And why does Prince Edward get to wear a military uniform? Those are the four questions on the board so far, which means, of course, there is room for your answers. But room for loads more questions, too. Let's go to David in Waterloo. David, question or answer? It's a answer. James. Good man. It's the one about Prince Edward. Why does he get to wear military uniforms and gold ropes? Right. The queen is the overseer of all the military. She's the colonel in chief. Now, she can't be the colonel of every regiment. No. And represent herself. So she appoints members that she sees fit and in Princess Anne, Edward Charles to represent her. And when he's doing the representation as colonel of the regiment, that is why he wears the relevant uniform of that regiment. Even if she's there, though, he is there. And when he is, she is. She is colonel in chief. Yeah. He is only colonel of the regiment. Yeah. So he has to. He still wears, what you say, that little gold thing around his shoulder, which is an egalette. Of course it is. And he has to wear it. And it's a gold egalette. Egalette, yes. It's made of 2% gold braid, but. And is that the same stuff that old ladies use on their curtains? No, James. Oh, sorry. No, definitely. All right. Sorry. No. All right. I just thought it might. I mean, it looks the same. So he is the royal Wessex, because. Royal Wessex, you say? Okay, so I was kind of right. But not as right as you are. What are your qualifications? I used to be the senior teller in the household division. Shut the front door. No, that's what I used to be. Really? Yes. So how many uniforms would the average. Would Prince Edward have? Because he's got four or five colonel in chief jobs. Some of them are canadian, aren't they? So would. Would he get a uniform for each one or would he have something on his. He gets a uniform for each one. And each. Each time he represents, he has to get changed into whichever uniform, whichever unit he is going to, depending on what duty he's fulfilling. This is a beautiful answer. Big job that, isn't it? And how much work is that? Were you looking after normal soldiers uniforms as well? Yeah, I was looking after all the officers and all the soldiers of the household division. So you're a fully trained tailor? Yes. And what. Which the. Which the army train you? Do they rich? Are you a soldier and a tailor? Yes, 1st. First and foremost. Tinker. Tinker? Tinker, sailor. I was also a qualified butcher within the army as well. Do you know, I've had a few suits made by people who I think were qualified butchers. David. Yeah, in the past. I love this art. This is why mystery hour is so magical. I. Who'd have thought it? What you do now. Which way are you? What business are you in now? What side of the. I'm a black cab driver. Round of applause for David. Absolutely beautiful Ozza. And in fact, given that he has five or six honorary positions, David, when I suggested that Prince Edward had more uniforms than the Village people, I think I was on the money. Yeah, your probably is right. He does dress up in the well, if you build it. Shirley's in Hatfield. Question or answer, Shirley. It's an answer. James. Hi. Hi. It's an answer to the ATM question. How much money will there be in a recently filled, a just filled ATM? On average. On average. On a usual combination of cartridges? 120,000 pounds. No way. Yes, I think it's supposed to go yes way. Oh, yes way. Qualifications? I used to work for a bank and spent many days counting and filling ATM's. So how much is in a cartridge? 40. 42. Lots of 20. And that split between twenties and tens. Oh, you're good. Gulam's been in touch by Twitter. He says he used to work in a bank as well. Fourth time. Fourth tweet ever. That's the only reason I'm reading it out. He said about. But I prefer your answer. It sounds more detailed. 40, 42. Lots of 20. And how often would it get refilled on a sort of high street? It depends. Probably twice, twice, two, three times a week, depending on usage. Yeah. It's a lot of cash, isn't it? Yeah. I mean, less to square. You could probably be filling it once a day. Wow. I don't know why that's so. You think this is quite dull because you're so used to it and you've dealt with it, don't you? I can tell from your voice. Shady. You can't believe everyone else is so gobsmacked by this. You should see Jones, the engineer. He doesn't look that alert at the best of times, but right now he looks truly gobsmacked. Yep. Well, yeah, no, you get used to it when you're. What's it like? And I know this, I know you must have been asked this question a billion times, but do you never feel any temptation whatsoever? No, because it doesn't seem like real money. No, of course. Yeah, yeah, I get that. Okay. Yeah. You might as well be dealing with widgets, counting widgets. It's just not money. Money. No, exactly. Yes. It's not. It doesn't belong to me, so. It doesn't. But if you gave me 1020 thousand pounds, then I'd be amazed. Because it belonged to me. Yeah, no, I get that. I get. I do. Surely it's earned you a round of applause, which, let's be honest, is priceless. Thank you. Thank you. 36 minutes after twelve, John's in Wembley. John, question or answer? Question gone. Yes. What does it mean when a unit or an organization gets the freedom of the city? Does it mean that the people that are in that organization, do they get the freedom individually? And what does it mean if I go to visit there. Oh, I like this. So you're ex military, I suggest, I suspect, what does your regiment enjoy the freedom of? Do you not get? We got the freedom of Ireland. So you back in 82. 82. 83. Yeah. We got the freedom of Arnhem for the contributions our regiment put into the battle of Arnhem. So what does that mean to you? If you go to Arnhem tomorrow, what you're really asking. And we've dressed it up as much as we can, John. You want to know what you get, right? Yeah. Damn right. Yeah. Go to Arnhem and if it's enough, you'll book a ticket tomorrow. Am I right? Yeah. If it's nothing, you get a pat on the back and a handshake. You're staying in Wembley. Yeah. I love that question. I don't know if it's the same for every. Freedom. Freedom of the city of London. Used to. You know, I read these weird books. It used to involve being able to beat your flock of sheep over. Over tower bridge or something like that. And there's all sorts of things like. But I love that Fred. John's regiment been awarded the Freedom of the city of Arnhem or the town of Arnhem. What does that mean? If John turns up as an ex member of that regiment? Zero 345-606-0973 Karen's in Lyonsea. Question or answer? Karen. A question, please. James. Good afternoon. Fantastic show. You're very kind. Thank you very much. You're welcome. I was listening to a conversation, or overheard a conversation the other day, where somebody said, pardon my French, and then use an exclusive. And I was thinking, where does that expression come from? Pardon my French? Why do we use that? I like that. I like that. Someone else had a Twitter question. I've just remembered it. So because I've said part of my French on air this week, I can't remember when, but I remember saying, and I say, fill my boots a lot. And someone wanted to know the origin of the phrase fill my boots. But we'll do that one next week. We'll do this one this week. I like this. And just with the previous question about the ATM, I hope you don't mind. I know you're not two answers, but you were saying, why does the woman get tempted to, you know, dip her fingers? You never have one person doing the ATM. There's always two. So you always have someone checking it or filling it together so one doesn't get tempted. Yes, of course. And how do you know that? Ex bank manager? How many people are listening to this program who have filled cash points? It's quite bizarre. I love it. And we'll get you an answer to your pardon my French, question. As a bank manager, no doubt you never, ever, ever employ an expletive or a profanity of any kind. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The time is 29 minutes after twelve. Oh three four five six zero six zero nine seven three is the number that you need to get involved. Questions still in need of answers. I like the Harry Kushner question. I like the murder will question. We've done the ATM question. What does the freedom of the city of Arnhem actually mean? And can you explain the origins of the phrase, oh, wrawllocks? Pardon my French? It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to LBC, 33 minutes after twelve. If you murder someone and they've left you something in their will, do you still get it? I'm pretty clear the answer is no. But we need it definitively confirmed by a lawyer, I suppose. Why do Hare Krishna wear orange? What do you get if you get the freedom of a city? In our caller's case, it was the freedom of Arnhem, which is something of which, to be rightly proud. But does it actually involve any kind of stuff? Kickbacks, not cash. But do you get a free lunch or something when you turn up there or you're allowed to go into bits of Arnon that other visitors cannot reach? I don't know. I want you to tell me and the origin of the phrase, pardon my French. Sometimes the stuff that's in common usage parlance, that is French almost. We never stop to think about where it comes from. Sometimes it's obvious. You sort of can work it out easily. Sometimes rhyming slang plays a part, actually, even when it isn't immediately obvious. But on this one, pardon my French, I do not know. Ours in part royal. Our question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Yes. So, as I was driving back from hole at weekend, I. Hole? Yes. Yes. A great little place, actually. You should come visit. I'm sure you do. Kingston? Up on hull. Hull. Hull, that one. Yes. Yes. My dad used to be on the hull. Daily Mail. Oh, really? Yeah. Fantastic. Anyways, by the way, we digress. So I was wondering about clouds, and I know that they're essentially water vapor, but if water is basically clear, or a slight tinge of blue, why are clouds white and why can't we see through them? Well, you can see through them if you're very close to them and they're quite. I mean, it's only like the stuff that comes out of your kettle that's white as well. But why is that white? Why isn't it clear like water is? Well, is it the fact that it's vapor? So ice isn't clear either, so I can't we see through ice either? Oh, you can see through ice sometimes, like ice sculptures, when they're. You can. So sometimes, depending on how much oxygen is contained, how much air is trapped within the molecules of water. And it's the same with vapor. There's air and water there in the steam. So the steam, what takes up the most room? If you boil a glass of water, what will take up the most room, the water or the steam? Or is it the same? I don't understand the question. I would have. No, you do. You're just beginning to realize how obvious the answer to your question is. If you take a glass of water, what takes up the most room? A boiled glass of water that is a glass of water that's been rendered steam or a glass of water that's still water. Are they not the same? Of course they're not, no. So ice expands as well. Ice takes up more room than water does. I see. Okay. Because it accommodates. Because air gets involved in the equation. And when air gets involved in the equation, you're not comparing light to light. So water vapor contains a lot more air than water does. Oh, go. You can't see through it. The penny has just dropped. You shouldn't have done. Because if you were being really obtuse, you just said, well, hang on, James. Air is see through as well. And I wouldn't have had an answer to that. But I don't need one because you didn't. That's it. I mean, I'm not taking that as a round of applause because I just worked it out. It doesn't really count as knowledge, counts as sort of common sense, but I'll wait to hear from a scientist. Very well. Yeah. Well, maybe Professor Hal could deal with caller al. Rob's in Waltham. Walter Mabbe. Rob, question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Carry on. It's the Harry Krishna question. Why do they wear orange? Yes. It's not actually orange, it's saffron, which, as you know, is the world's rarest spice. And it's always been traditionally worn by brahmans and yogis in India and that's the reason why they wear it. It's the most regarded as very auspicious colour because of. I mean, it's because of saffron. Because if saffron is rare in the same way. I know saffron's rare, but vanilla's rare and it's not as rare in the same way as we regard gold, the rarest metal, or, you know, diamonds, the rarest it's not enough. I mean, Harry Krishna's are supposed to eschew all worldly goods, aren't they? They're not supposed to revere stuff because of its material value. Well, I'm not a hare Krishna. I was involved with them. I was doing a bit of filming on one of their productions and I asked the question and they do say saffron, not orange. You're right. Brahmakari's. Yeah, that was. That's the answer that I know. It may not be definitive, but that's the answer. I know you don't like it. I can tell. Well, I don't dislike it. I just thought it might have something to do with the power of orange or the power of the saffron color rather than the association with the. They come out the stamens of flowers, don't they? Saffron. Exactly. Exactly. So to harvest, there must be a labor intensive process in itself, so people must have recognized that and only afforded that color for the Brahmins in the same way as in Europe. They used to use cobalt blue for royalty. Yeah, they did. In purple in ancient Rome. For privilege as well. I think I'm going to give you the round of applause. But what if a hare Krishna rings in with a better answer? Oh, happily. Take you offer it back. All right, then. Cheers. Rob. No mahogany. You are honored. Mind how you go. Kate's in Worcester Park. Kate. Question or answer? I have an answer for you, James. Carry on. It's for the will and murder question. If you murder someone, you are not eligible to receive anything that you would have been eligible to receive in their will. Who gets it instead? It would be distributed out to other people and other benefactors, or it would have to go to court. Fair enough. Qualifications? My boyfriend's parents own a will writing company and I was helping his dad to revise for an exam. That's lovely. I had to guess the answer to the question. Qualifications? I don't think I would have come up with. My boyfriend's parents own a will writing company. In a million years, I'd have presumed you were a solicitor. Pardon? Can I give them a plug? What do you think, Michael? What about instead of around? Wow. Are you hoping currying favor with the in laws here, Kate? On a fairly spectacular level, there's nothing controversial about a will writing companies. Yeah. Jones the engineer has said yes, you may. Thank you. They are called exclusively will. That's a nice name. And you can have a round of applause as well. Whereas if you try to smuggle in the plug for free. I'd cut you off. Paula's in New Alton. Paula. Question or answer? I've got an answer, I think. Marvelous. I know, I know. I do. I know. That's it. That's better. Confidence. Come on. Pma. Positive mental attitude. What is it? Was it an answer to? It is the answer to. Excuse my French. Oh, yes. And I think it. Well, it. No, I know, I know, I know it. I know that it's stems back to middle ages, anglo saxon sort of era. Yes. And the English or the Anglo Saxons, when they swore they would tend to use words like. Related to bodily functions like. Well, you can imagine what they are. Whereas the French, when they swore they would use sort of religious connotations like sacway bleu, sacre bleu and bon dieu, mon dieu was considered to be blasphemous. So if anybody blasphemed or used the name of God in vain, it would be. Excuse my French. As in Norman. That was in. Well, it was back a long time ago. Yeah. So French, Norman, Norman, French. And it just became. So blasphemy was French and swearing was Anglo Saxon. Yes. We're not swearing. What's the word we're looking for? Like rude stuff that doesn't invoke the name of God or anything like that. Like. Like. We all know the words but we're not going to say them on the radio, are we? Absolute. More. None. Qualifications? Qualifications. I have been. Not so much now, but I used to watch CBB's or CBBC with my children. Horrible histories. Horrible histories, yes. I feel a bit embarrassed now that I didn't know this. I thought I'd watched all of the horrible histories available to man. Are the kids grown out of it now, Paula? They are, yes, but they. They're far too mature. Well, tell you what, they might like the new film that's out. Have you heard about that? No. There's a. There's a. There's a film out that's been made by the horrible histories troupe. I can't remember what it's flipping called. Forgive me. It's about Shakespeare and the mysteries of what Shakespeare might have got up to before he became a famous playwright. They'd enjoy that. Did you say eleven and nine? Have I frightened Paula away? No, the line's gone down. It's all. Everything's falling apart. Let's go to John in Brecon in Paris. John, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, John. Freedom of the city granted to regimental units. Yes. It gives the unit the right to march through the city with bayonets fixed and colours flying. Normally the army is not allowed to march through Britain armed, but if it has the freedom, it can be armed by having bayonets fixed and it can have its colors flying. Oh, I like that. What about outside Britain? Because it was John in Wembley. Freedom of Arnhem. That would depend on the rules in Arnhem. But it is only. So. It's only relevant to the entire regiment. You couldn't. John in Wembley can't go. Go on his own, not the individual members of it. So in answer to the question, if he went to Arnhem tomorrow, what would he get? The answer is naf. All. Precisely. Yeah. Pat on the back. Qualifications. John? I did my national service in the Royal Warwickshire Regiment, which had the freedom of the city of Birmingham and we did march through Birmingham with bayonets fixed and colours flying when we lined the route for the. For the queen. Oh, magnificent. What year was that? 55. Oh, splendid. 1955. I love that idea. And bayonets up because it's a sort of issue of trust, really. It's sort of saying you're. You're good lads and you're on our side. You can have your bayonets out. Correct. John, I'm going to award you a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I love that. Of course, something. Bad news for John in Wembley. Good news for John in Brecken. Tushar is in Soho in central London. Tushar. Question or answer? Actually, it's actually an answer to your. Well, it's an answer to the chap that said you knew the answer to the robe wearing the orange saffron sort of argument. Yes, he was actually wrong, in fact. I mean, yes, he's right in the sense it is actually saffron. But the issue actually is more so than. It's not as simple as just what he said, actually. There's various sort of situations. So, for example, a student or a married man would wear white robes. The saffron robes would be worn by the ordained monks. And it's more so this color on saffron, it represents like, humility and freedom from vanity, actually. So it's not nothing to do with exclusivity or, you know, uniqueness of the. Of the color. It's nothing. If anything, it's contrary to that. What are your qualifications, Tushar? I am. I'm actually. I'm a. I wouldn't say I'm practicing, but I'm. I'm trying to become a monk at the moment. I'm at Soho. Currently at the temple in Soho. I know it well with the vegetarian restaurant on the ground floor. Amazing food. You should definitely come and check it out. I have been actually just on the. On the. On the. On the brink of Soho Square, isn't it? Just between Oxford street and so. Yes, yes. Right next to a club on one side and other side, you've got the whole of Soho, so it's perfect position, I feel. And then the house on the other side is where Mary Seacole used to live. Exactly. The blue plaque on the wall. If it's a bit. It's hard to believe there's hundreds of thousands of people listening to this. Tushar. It's just like two mates having a chat. I literally forgot I was on the radio. A round of applause. What are the sort of qualification processes do you. At what point do you become a fully fledged. Because you said you're trying to become a monk. What's the ordination? I think it's more. So it's a very specific individual journey, you know, studying of the ancient vedic scriptures, the. The scriptures that, you know, prescribed along the, sort of the vedic journey. So a lot of yoga, a lot of asans, a lot of learning, a lot of. We call it Seva, which is selfless service. So just. I mean, it's just. It's a journey and it could take as long as it takes, really. Oh, I see. And it's open to anyone, really. So it's not like a specific. Lovely. No, love it, love it, love it, love it. And that's beautifully done. Did we get. We gave him his round of applause. Presumably you'd have preferred it with a few bells involved or cymbals, rather than just mere applause Tushar. I mean, listen, I know I'm trying with the salt service, but I'll happily take a second round of rose if you're going to be off. Yeah, absolutely. There you go. There's no vow of poverty there and I shall try to say hello next time. I find myself availing myself of the delicious vegetarian curries that you serve in that corner of Soho. It's 1247. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery act continues after this. 1251. Beverly with you in eight minutes. We've got some questions that need answering before then. I, however, have a little bit of housekeeping to. Paula is in Newelt and. Paula, you got cut off before you got your round of applause? I did. The phone went completely dead and I've called loads of times and I never went to finish it. And the first time I went to finish up and the phone line went dead. How amazing. Then, out of the goodness of my heart, I just instructed the team to call you back. Oh, I know. And I was in the middle of telling you about the horrible histories. Film. The song, the new film. There's a new film out? Yeah, I will google it later on. You don't need to. I'm here to help. It's called Bill. It's out on the 21 August. And it imagines what would have happened to Shakespeare in the days before he became a famous playwright. It's extremely funny and it contains all the cast of horrible history. Fantastic. We'd be going to that. And now a round of applause. Just. Just. Just remind me whether you could get this sort of service on any other radio station in the land. Paula. No, I don't listen to any other radio stations. Exactly. And then why on earth would you. Thank you. Paula, Professor Hal is here now. It's as if the embarrassment of riches won't end. Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And I said we needed a scientist. Lo and behold, here he is. What have you got for me? Hello, James. I thought we could have a look at the cloud question. Yes, but I think I ought to add that Wayne from Basildon has an input into this because he texted me. Okay, so now you have private mistrial related exchanges via text message while both listening to Mistria, despite the fact that you never knew of each other's existence before discovering mystery hour and subsequently each other mystery hour bringing people together, James, since 19. Whatever. Carry on. Clouds are colloids, also known as emulsions. They're like emulsion paint or blanc mange or custard. They are tiny particles of a liquid suspended in gas, as you wisely pointed out, gas, in this case, being air. Yes, yes. And gases do occupy much more space than liquids, as you would have seen with my exploding condom experiment that Michael and Jones, the engineer, will tell you about. Okay, now, the point is, when light hits a cloud, the tiny particles of water refract it or scatter it. And every time it moves from a gas to liquid interface, some of the light is reflected back. You know that water reflects, so it's going through thousands and thousands of interfaces, which means they appear white because they effectively reflect back all the light. So that's white clouds, dark clouds or thunder clouds, because they've got much, much more water in them, they're much denser, they absorb more light. And therefore they tend towards being black, because black's the universal absorber, whereas white is a universal reflector, which I think covers everything we need to cover. I think that's pretty definitive. Thank you. There we go. Gosh. Waiting man. I think Jones was still. Still tripping about the exploding condom experiment. Can we see it on YouTube? We can get it on YouTube. Get out there next week. How good was it? I'm just going to ask. It was my people wondering what's going on. Professor Hal does science shows. He doesn't just confine his genius to his students, he does science shows for interested members of the public and what have you. And Jones, the engineer, and Michael, the producer, went along to one. I unfortunately couldn't join him that evening because I had sort of short notice work to do and they absolutely loved it. But absolutely excellent was what Jones said. What about ordinary people listening? Do you do normal shows for members of the public, Hal? Yes, we do. All over the place. And next time there's one that's going on fairly central London, I'll let you know. It's a national radio station, mate. I know. Doesn't have to be happening in London. What, all over the world? We did in Moscow, didn't we? So when is the next one? We've got one in peace Haven in a month. We got one in Manchester in October. See? So national is leading Britain's conversation. We're big in peace Haven, we're massive in Manchester. What's the website? If people want to check it out, see if there's one near them soon. Doctor Howell dot co dot Uk. Dot. Doctor Howell dot co dot Uk. And do you do the luminescence one there that you did with me in that pub basement in Soho? We do that and so much more that we make liquid oxygen, we use liquid nitrogen, solid CO2. I'm going to bring my lip. I can't bring my seven year old. Or does your potty mouth run away with itself, as usual? No, no, it doesn't. It's all the humor is on several levels. Like the Simpsons. Like the Simpsons, but with test tubes. I'll bring. I'll bring the kid. Seriously? I'd love to, actually. I think they're more mature than Michael and Joan, so they probably enjoy even more than they did. Thank you very much, Professor Howell. Round of applause, please. You got two. Who cares? It's one of those days. The sun is out. We're having lessons outside Mary's in East Cote. Mary. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Mary. Sweet corn. Oh, no. You sounded. You sounded so genteel. Why are we going back to this? Well, I just put it nicely. All right. You were sort of like story of my life. Yes. Cellulose. Yes. But it's fiber. It's not just sweet corn that passes through us, it's just we can see it because it's bright yellow. Right. It's also things like tomato seeds. They can't be broken down by. But if you really chewed up your sweet corn, you. You wouldn't. No, it would just come out in smaller bits. Oh. It's one of the things I do. I teach health well being now. I teach health well being with year fives. Oh, fair enough. The experiments I give them to do is actually not eat sweet corn for a couple of days, then have a big bowl of sweet corn and just time how long it takes to work through their system so they know how quickly their digestive system works. What sort of a freak are you? Their teachers don't look at me as if I'm mad, but the kids love it. The kids love it. Of course they do. And it's earned you a round of applause. No, sorry. Hang on, Mary. There we go. And not your last, I venture. Although next time, let's try and keep it clean, you know? All right, Mary, if we can. Shams is in the city. Hello, mate. Question or answer? Question. In the late. Only three minutes left. I'm sure you'll have a go at answering, James, anyway. Yeah, all right. You invent a game, mate, you can have a go at answering all the questions. Okay, now, I've only got two minutes left. I'm wearing aftershave. Obviously, you get used to the smell. Someone else walks past me with the same aftershave, would I be able to smell it on them? Yes, because you're going to save runs. The aftershave smells slightly different on. Well, I mean, I'm surprised. I mean, I used to flog off the show. I used to work on the perfume counter at Beatty's in Worcester, and I can still name perfumes. So a woman walks past, I can go, it's not weird or creepy at all, I promise. I go, oh, you're wearing tresor by long. So that answers your question, doesn't it? No, no. If you're wearing an after J, you get used to the smell. So you. Oh, you mean if you've got it on at the time and someone else has got it on, you won't notice? Oh, that's a stupid question. And we're out of time as well, have a great day. I'm off for a vegetarian curry with my new friend, the Hare Krishna monk. This is LBC. We'll do it all again. What? Tomorrow from ten. And the next voice you'll hear belongs to Beverly Tufts.