Why do we have bobbles on bobble hats?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien completely forgot to pique your excitement before the news. I was so engrossed by what Bob was telling us about this astonishing investigation into the Grenfell Tower, I can now prick your excitement to my heart's content. It's your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that's not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. So if you have a question that needs an answer and you already know how this absurdly popular feature works, then hit the numbers. Now you will get through. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call. If you are not familiar with it, then I shall take a moment now to talk you through precisely how it works and why people have invested mystery hour with so much love, affection and attention over the course of the last few years. Think of it, if you will, as the radio equivalent of those newspaper and magazine features where a reader writes in with a question in the desperate hope that another reader will know the answer. And I don't mean like, boring stuff, although it is sometimes the case that a very boring question slips through the net, often with a sort of comedic subtext. We shall find out today. But it is perfectly possible that you've got quite a complicated scientific question that needs an answer. And it's perfectly possible that someone with quite a complicated scientific body of knowledge will be listening. It could be silly, it could be serious, it could be any of those things. And all that you really need to do to get involved is buy a ticket. And you do that by. By ringing zero 345-606-0973 should we crack on this week and just do it rather than going over the. Going through the motions? Because if you know, if you don't know how it works, and I appreciate the way I think we're up 26% year on year, so there's a quarter more people listening now than they were twelve months ago. So not everybody with the radio on is going to be familiar with how mystery hour works. And these buses that are sweeping up and down the country with our fat faces on the sides of them, they're drawing new people into the LBC experience all the time. There's quite a few in, quite a few in Stockport at the moment. Someone sent me one. It's quite unnerving to see your own face ten foot high on the side of a bus in Stockport, but it's even more unnerving to see it on a billboard near your own home in London. So if you are new, then just have a listen and you'll work out how it works. I think that would be more entertaining, a more useful employment of our time together than me inflicting a five minute explanation on you. So shall we just crash on with it, then? Yes, we shall. Steve is in Maidstone. Steve, question or answer? Hello, Joan. Hello, Steve. Question, please, mate, if I can. Of course you can. I've got to the ripe old age of 40 and my other office just bought me my first ever Bob Olap. Oh, well done. As a kid, you must have had one, I don't think. I didn't have the gloves for the string or anything like that. I just lost my glove on the NSPCC. Mate, that's deprived. Appalling privations. Go on. Where has this bobble hat led you? Question, has it prompted. I just burned you. Bumpy birthday, so she bought me one. Now, I was wondering if the. If the bobblehead bobbal hat has got a purpose. Because my friend's got a woolly hat with no bubble. Yeah, and he said his head would be just as warm as mine. But why have I got a bubble? Is it fashion or is it got a reason? Oh, that's a lovely question. Thank you. But I think I can. I think I can answer it. Okay. I'm prepared to take an answer. Well, what I'd like you to do, imagine that you were really, really wrapped up. So not only are you wearing big thick coats and stuff and your bobble hat, but you're also wearing mittens. Okay? Now try and take your hat off without a bobble. Try and take your hat off without a bubble on the top, wearing your big mittens. Well, you could just grip the side of your head and just pop it off, couldn't you? It's quite difficult to do, especially if it's icy or wet. The big mitten clad hands might just slide off your woolly head. I wouldn't take this as an answer, by the way. I'm just. I'm just thinking. No, no, no. Especially not as a birthday treat, you know. Not quite yet, either. April 16, everyone write it down. Send me a card. Yeah, they will. Everyone get Steve a card for his 40th. April 16. Seriously, it's not a million miles away from when I've got to deliver my book by mate, so you'll forgive me if I don't remember to send you a card on that occasion. I shall, um. I'll find out for you. I think if there is a purpose, it's probably something close to what? I've said, ease, ease of removal. But we need to go definitive. Imagine getting to the age of nearly 40 without ever having had a bobble hat before. 1208 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Where are we going to go next? Should we go to Westminster? I think we should. Thomas, is there. Thomas, question or answer? Question, please. James. Hello, Thomas. Hello, how are you? Very well. Carry on. How do new words like Brexit get into sign language? Oh, blimey, I love that. So, yes, if you are communicating in sign language, how would you accommodate? Brexit is the best example, although we are trying to steer clear of it on the program today. Thomas, I wasn't expecting mystery hour to break the Brexit. Damn. But you could go for. I mean, anything, couldn't you? But we'll go with Brexit. So we need. We need a sign language expert to call us and tell us. I do. Because I just. Someone said, oh, they wouldn't have it. But, I mean, if you've got someone in the corner of the news channel doing it, they can't just be spelling it out every time. You're absolutely right. The corner of the news channel being the thing that focuses the mind on this question. I love it. Great work, mate. Nice one. Should we reveal Thomas's secret live on air, or should we just let. Thomas is actually a producer on a different LBC program. This is the first time this has ever happened. It must be awful for you, working on programs that aren't as interesting as this one. Thomas. This is why I come up with questions like sign language. Take care, mate. I'll see you in 50 minutes when I come out of the studio. It's ten minutes after twelve. No preferential. It was that time. I didn't misrepresent. Yeah, I thought I recognized his voice. Martin is in St. Ives. Martin. Question or answer? Hello? James, you all right? Very well, mate. What's on your mind? Question. Carry on. Carry on, carry on. Why don't we sneeze when we sleep? When we're asleep, we never sneeze. Hello? No, I'm here, mate. I'm having a think. Give me a break, will you? Honestly. How do you. I mean, we never sneeze. You can. You can sneeze yourself awake. No, no, you can't. You can cough yourself away. You can sneeze yourself awake. My wife gets allergies. Never done that. Well, that doesn't mean that no one in the history of humankind ever has. Well, I've done a bit of research. Go on, go on. And, uh, none of my friends do. My wife doesn't. All right, so the question is, do we sneeze in our sleep? And then if the answer to that is no, we don't, then we move on to the why. I'll do that. I'll do that for you. But I'm pretty sure we do sneeze. I know, mate. This is. You put me in a really difficult position. I have. I have seen my wife sneeze while she's asleep and she sneezes us both awake. Right, okay. You might be right then, Jimmy. I might be right. I was in bed with her. Well, you might be right, but I've never sneezed myself awake. No. Well, I. Who's going to be definitive on this one? Who's going to? Whose answer? You're not taking my answer, despite the fact that I have an eyewitness firsthand. Eyewitness primary source account of it. So whose answer would you accept? I would accept an expert. What do you mean? All right, Charlie, Michael, go. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Can you sneeze? Do we sneeze in our sleep? How do they add new words to sign language, for example? Because the BBC News channel would be a good indication of this when they have someone doing sign language in the corner of the screen. Brexit. It wasn't even a word. Five years ago. Those were the days. Rory's in Newbury. Rory, question or answer? Hi, James. Question, please. Carry on, Rory. How is there a formula to calculate how much snow would melt into how much water? What? Yeah, I was looking at my garden the other day and I was thinking how much, you know, if my cover's gardening for my garden is covered in four inches of snow, how much water is that going to melt down into? Well, I mean, the density of snow differs, doesn't it? Well, I wondered if that was the case, but maybe. I don't know. Well, no, it does. The density of snow is different. You, you have different, you know, thickly packed snow. Look. Look at. Have you ever been skiing? You're called Rory. You must have been skiing. Fair enough. So when you're skiing, you have different qualities of snow depending upon. Yeah, but that would. All that would mean is that maybe there's a slightly different formula for each type of snow. But I just wondered, it must be useful for people to know, like how much. Is there a sum you can do to work out how much water will be contained within a given amount of snow? Yeah, I mean, melt water can destroy communities and stuff, can't it? Oh, I see what you mean. Yes. I was about to ask why you wanted to. It's a much more responsible question than I initially realized. Well, again, I think the compact issue. I don't know who's going to be able to answer that unless it is I'm concerned. But then that's what Mister Arrow's for, isn't it? You're absolutely right, that's what mister. And if it doesn't operate upon an optimistic footing, then what is the point of mystery hour at all? 1213 is the time. So is there a relationship, is there a formula that can be employed to calculate how much water will be yielded by a given amount of snow? When said snow melts, do we sneeze in our sleep? No, we don't. But he needs an expert. How do. How does sign language accommodate neologisms? Neologisms. Woo. Thank you. And what's a bobble on a bobble at for? Gavin is in Bournemouth in Buckinghamshire. Gavin, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Yes. Good. So I'm taking Jack, my nine year old, to school this morning and we're talking about the colour of blood. Yeah. And I said, I believe it's blue when it's inside you, but as soon as it gets hit oxygen, it turns to red. Yeah. And he goes, I've got a question for you. Then. I couldn't answer it. And it's basically said, well, what happens to spacemen when they cut themselves? What color is it? Then it would still be redder. Because if they can. I mean, there's oxygen in the space stations and the spaceships, otherwise they wouldn't be able to breathe, mate. Well, what about if it's outside, then where there is no oxygen? Well, then it would walk and then they little bit blood comes out. If any part of their being was exposed to the atmospheric pressure outside of the spacesuit, they'd be crushed to smithereens within nanoseconds. This is really going to be difficult explaining it to nine year old. How old are you? How old are you? I'm slightly over 950. Right. Well, I'll tell you what, from my end of the microphone, it's quite hard explaining this to a bloke in his early fifties, so I don't envy you explaining it to a nine year old. But can't you just make it easier? No. How can you? Because you can't. If blood is exposed to oxygen, it goes red and there is no oxygen in space, so it wouldn't go red, but you wouldn't be able to expose any human body to actual space without. Without. I mean, you. You know, you'd be. Would you be crushed to death or would you just fly off into the youth? I think you'd be crushed to death, wouldn't you? Well, I think we're gonna have to go more creative answering than that. Well, this is. This is a parenting issue, mate. Not. Not an issue and not a mystery related issue. Well, no, I don't think so. I thought you'd have the right answer for me. I have given you the right answer. You just don't like it because it's complicated and it doesn't lend itself to a sort of little distillation. But I'll leave it on the board and hopefully, maybe Professor Hal or someone like that might be able to dress it up in a way that makes it more easily digestible for a nine year old boy. Oh, you're a star. I'll do my best. That's all I can ever do. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. We are about to be embarrassed. I suspect Gavin and I just make complete fools of ourselves during that conversation about blood in space. Absolute muppets. I'm blaming Gavin. I wasn't really concentrating. I was just listening to his question, and he's probably going to blame on his nine year old son. But anyway, the question was, what colour is blood in space? Also on the board, can we sneeze? Do we sneeze in our sleep? Yes, we do. But he didn't believe me. How does sign language accommodate new words? For example, Brexit. What's the bobble on a bobble hat for? And is there a formula to calculate if there's a certain amount of snow somewhere? Is there any way of calculating how much water it will yield? I actually. The more I think about that question, the more I like it. Ian is in divisors. Ian, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why is Stonehenge not lit at night time? Is that a mystery hour question? Well, yeah. I mean, it's. You know, it's a national monument to stop at nighttime and you can't see it. No, I mean, I think it's because there was quite a lot of disorder there and they're seeking to prevent people from going there after hours. It would be quite easy to access Stonehenge over the fields and under the fences. And if it was lit up, it would almost be like a temptation, wouldn't it? I think it's that simple? Yeah, I'm just not so sure. I've just always wondered. Yeah, I think you drive past it. You can, but you know that over the years we've been alive, the amount of access you can have to the stones themselves has been reduced. I mean, a tourist board would probably be able to help you, but I'm 99% sure they don't light up Stonehenge at night so that people don't sneak in to not just conduct druid ceremonies, but also just faff about. And, you know, you'd have kids drinking cider there every night, wouldn't you? Yeah, but it's not like they don't know it's there. Yeah, but there's a massive difference between hooking up in the dark and hooking up in a beautifully lit spot. I'm 99. I mean, you're sounding skeptical. There's nothing I can do, but I'm just not convinced. I mean, it's a natural. So what's your theory then? Heritage site? You would have thought that they would want to promote it. Yeah, unless they were discouraging people from going there and potentially doing damage by having solstice parties or simply having gatherings of people illegally without paying to be there. I mean, it would turn it into a honey pot. It would turn it into a destination, obviously. Yeah, maybe. Maybe you're right. What do you mean, maybe? Well, yeah, maybe I'm not convinced. How can you not be convinced by my answer? Unless you've got a better one, which you clearly haven't. No, I've got no idea at all. They might. Light pollution might have some part to do with it as well. You know, the general unhappiness about darkness not being darkness anymore. But I'll put it. I'll put it on the list for you, mate, because you've asked so politely. But I'm definitely right. All right, no problem. Okay. Who's going to be able to. Well, hang on. Whose qualifications are you going to accept on this world heritage? Well, we'll see. With the greatest love and respect, Ian, I suspect that they've got more important things to do. Dan is in tooting. Dan, question or answer? That's a question. Please carry on. I want to know why we don't eat turkey eggs. Well, we can if you can, if you want. There's no law against it, but farmers generally let them all hatch so that they can sell the turkeys at Christmas. Well, there must be plenty of turkey eggs that go, that don't get fertilized, that won't hatch like the egg. Not really. Quail egg? No, the way. The way them. And then there's no market for them. But that is. I don't know whether that's a chicken and egg situation, but that would have been hilarious. There's no market for turkey eggs. Whether or not there would be a market for them if we put them on sale, I don't know. I doubt it. But the main reason is that turkeys are bred solely for meat, not for eggs. Because I was in a. Quite a fancy shop the other day in London. Yeah. And they had an egg menu where you could get emu eggs and goose eggs as well. Yeah, but not a turkey. Not a turkey egg. I mean, I'll put it on the board again. It seems to be a recurring theme of this. I'm answering all the questions quite perfectly and I'm sensing skepticism from the other end of the phone line. Yeah. Because I've asked a lot of people and no one seems to no an answer. But I just gave you an answer. What? Yeah, okay, I'll accept an answer. I think we may need to review the terms and conditions of mystery. Out. Mostly it's designed to feed my ego. We seem to have fallen into a trap in the last few weeks of thinking that it's a sort of genuine fact search based feature. It's solely to feed. Well, not solely, it's mostly to feed my ego. And then occasionally to pretend that it's. It's a more grown up and responsible pursuit. Why don't we eat turkey eggs? Because they all hatch into turkeys and we eat them all at Christmas. There's not a year round. Oh, mate. I'll get a turkey farmer to tell you. All right. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Why don't we eat turkey eggs? Why isn't Stonehenge lit up at night? What colour is blood in space? How do you work out how much water there is in a bunch of snow? Do we sneeze in our sleep? How does sign language accommodate new words? And why do bobblehats have bobbles? That sounded a bit like my grandmother. Went to market, didn't it? It was one of those lovely lists. 1226 is the time we need to start getting some answers on the board. Steve is in Chelmsford. Steve, question or answer? I've got an answer. You beauty. Bring it. Right. No. And the calculation to working out how much water comes from it? Yes. There's a set of tables that you can get from NOAA, the US people where they've conducted experiments on this and they've worked out the conversion rate, it's generally one inch of rain is equivalent to ten inches of snow. So that changes depending on where around the country is, how close to major waterways it is, because that defines how much water there is, or liquid water there is in the clouds at the time. Yes. And all of this has to be worked out from partly experimentation and partly from a volume calculation. For instance, like your. If you want to find out how much snow has fallen in a certain area, yeah. You put something to catch it in a high up space and it doesn't really matter. Then people go and walk all over all the snow because, you know, how much volume of snow has happened in the first place. And just because it's compressed doesn't mean there's more water in it. And the reason I know. Yeah. I was about to ask what your qualifications are. This is amazing. Well, I worked for a large infrastructure design company using very interesting ways to achieve very boring things. So I built a plugin for them that does this calculation for them and then ties into another bit of software that shows how water drains in cities so that you can properly design drainage and guttering for whatever it is that you're building. Is this a Rayleigh otter moment? Oh, mate, I don't want you to dilute the Rayleigh otter. Considering the whole night noise thing the other day, I feel like I just drag it down. What was the noise thing the other day? Oh, Linda. No. Yeah. Where Steve got a Rayleigh otter for fixing Linda's noise problems. Yeah, but you. I mean, the question is, is there a calculation to work out how much water you get from snow? And you essentially have created a plugin that allows us to calculate how much water we get from snow? That's exactly the case, yes, mate. You're over the line, mate. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Can't say fairer than that, can you? No. No. So I'm glad you put this on podcast because I'll treasure it forever. We'll be out when Beth gets around to doing it later today. 1228 is the time. Just coming out to 1229. Just squeeze in Mike and Corby before the news, I think. Can we? Yeah, why not? Mike, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Mike. Okay. Is your question about the colour of blood in space and blood being blue in the body. Mike, I'm going to stop you there because that is presumably a question that demands a degree of expertise that you clearly possess, but I don't want to squeeze you into the small amount of time remaining between now and the news. So would you be free to come back after the news and carry on with your fascinating experience explanation? Yes, I certainly can. There you go. I'm only doing this to prove that it's live. You know, there's any sort of illusions. The one thing you can't do pre recorded is a phone in show, one of the only rules of radio that I'm prepared to obey. You cannot pre record a phone in show. So I will come back to Mike and get an answer to that question about blood in space, which I suspect is going to make both Gavin, who asked it, and me, who heard him ask it and joined in. It's going to make us both look and feel rather stupid. But that's good. That's good for the ego. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien.