Why do I always need a wee when i get to my front door? - 5 Mar 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC Text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC four minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we have a complete change of pace now after, I mean, probably the quickest 2 hours I can remember doing on the radio in a few weeks discussing the leadership debates and my prediction that the debate about the debate will probably turn out to be much more interesting than the debate itself still stands, although the debate about the debate was considerably more interesting than even I expected. We turn our attention next to some of life's little big and even medium sized mysteries. If you've got a question that needs an answer, if you have an educational itch, to paraphrase Professor Hal at the University of Brighton, then it's time to start scratching the number you need. I will share with you when I have phone lines free. And once you've heard questions that you can answer, you have to ring in and help. Let's start with Elaine, who's in Forest Hill. Elaine, I'm going to dispense with the usual explanations and descriptions of what mystery hour entails and contains because I know that you're going to just highlight for people listening for the first time precisely what this is all about with the power and brilliance of your inquiry. What is it this week? Very sweet. The thing that is driving me to distraction is why a lot of people are now going over to the idea of when they give you the telephone number they must insist on putting zeros instead of os. I'm glad to see that you fortunately still adopt the same way as I do of saying 034-5678 whatever. But if you're getting a number and it's 030056, you're trying to remember what the number is before you can, before they go on to the next bit. The irony of it is it's not a short way of doing it because at the end of zero you have to say, oh, you do? You can't say zero without saying, oh, yes, and it seems the most laborious way of doing it. Zero. Zero. No, you definitely can't say zero without Elaine. Promise we're not going to fall out. Yes. That's a bit rubbish, isn't it? I mean, what's the actual question here? I've just. Why is this ten? No, no. Why is this tendency now to start putting zeros in? Because if you're trying to follow somebody's number and write it down, you get completely thrown in the middle of the number. Or indeed, at the beginning of the number, you put the word zero in. I know. Okay, so why are we now putting zero in phone numbers instead of just saying, oh, like we always used to? It's not your finest hour. Coming more and more to be the norm. And I just. Wait there, wait there. Don't go away, because I'm just going to see if Simon's got a more exciting question. Simon, what's your question, mate? Hello there. I'd like to wonder, when a phone number starts with an o, why is it started with a letter and not a number? This is some sort of. Is this some sort of wind up? No. When you start it with a. No. That's correct. That's right. Oh, yeah. Lmno. Yeah, that's a letter, not a number. Right. Elaine, what was your question? Just back in your box. I think mine was much better question, what was yours? Mine. Are we on to me now? Yes. Good. Okay. Well, in your case, you use your numbers correctly, in my view, of announcing the number for people to ring in as 0345. But you don't say 034500, do you? No. So why. Why haven't you, for example, adopted this new idea, which I think is awful, of putting zero instead of the o? Right. And, Simon, what was your question again? I was wondering why when you start with an o, you are using a number. I mean, a letter. Sorry. Rather than a number. This hasn't happened before, but I think you might just be cancelling each other out. Like sort of gamma death. Awesome. Are you cancelling each other out, Elaine? Oh, I'm not. Well, you might not notice. That's the thing about gamma death race. Simon, you're saying, why don't we all say o. Yes, zero. And then I. Excellent. We've got a brain. I'm getting you off the hook by suggesting you put it out to the public, to the listeners. All right, Elaine. So I need to ask the most, first thing I can suggest to you. All right, Elaine, I'm trying to get you off the hook. I'm very grateful, but just to clarify, what I need to ask is. Yeah. I need to ask, why have people started saying zero instead of o? And then at the same time, I have to say, why doesn't everybody say zero? That's great, but I can see why they don't. Because it's too complicated. But it's a letter. Why'd you say number? All right, I leave it with me. Elaine Simon. No, I meant it. 0345. All right. It can only get better, can't it? Now, zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call. I have to say I was. I feel bad now about suggesting that Hazel Blairs might be a sontar and spy because Jill has sent a tweet to at Mister James ob juxtaposing a picture of Hazel Blairs and a picture of a sontar and from. From doctor who. And it now looks like I was making a look spaced gag when I really wasn't. But if you want to see that tweet, then you need to follow me because I just retweeted it. Anyway, let's go to Dublin. Dublin in Ireland, it says here. As opposed to Dublin in, I don't know, Worcestershire. Anthony, what have you got for me? Hello, James. Good afternoon. Yeah, just a quick question I would like to know if somebody could answer. Is there a historical connection between the irish accent and the caribbean accent? What makes you think there might be? Great question, actually, James, because even last week you were talking to a chap and when I was listening on the radio, as I do, immediately said, that guy's from Jamaica, Caribbean, he's West Indian. You said, well, I take it, blah, blah, blah, whatever his name was. You're from irish extraction. And I went, well, there you go. It's been puzzling me for quite a while. He was irish, was he? He was, yeah. And you thought he was west Indian? You thought he was, yeah. Yeah. Maybe it's you. I am qualified in asking this question because I grew up in Notting Hill gate. Yes. And I now live in Dublin. So what do you think there? So you, you hear similarities? Oh, yeah, absolutely. All the time. See, and the most obvious one, James, is tree. You know, they say tree instead of tree. And in Jamaica they do the same thing. They say tree. Tree. Yeah. I like this question. And that's just one of many. Have you ever tried to speak in an irish accent while holding your nose? No. A lot of the irish immigrants to America got very bad colds on the ship. On the ship on the way over. And that is why the american accent is actually an irishman with a block nose. Okay. And have you. Don't do this now, but have you ever tried to talk in a pakistani or a sort of southeast asian accent? Yes. And has it all gone a bit Welsh quite quickly? No, because I've got a lot of asian friends and that's why that was my party trick, because when I do it. It always goes a bit Welsh. And I tried to start a myth a few years ago. That was because of all the welsh missionaries traveling to India to spread Christianity. And people picked up the accents. But whether or not there's a link between a west indian accent, a caribbean accent and an irish accent, I do not know and I don't know who could tell us. But I will put the question on the board and hope that someone tries. It's twelve after twelve o versus zero on numbers. Yeah, yeah. Okay. And accents. Miles is in Northampton. Miles. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Yeah, go on. How do we see some people as attractive and some as ugly? How do you mean? How do you mean? As in, you could. Some people would look at, say, the elephant man, and they automatically see the distorted face, the blah, blah, blah, and they think ugly. Whereas you see a supermodel in a paper. And in person, if you're lucky enough, and you automatically think attractive. Not as in why we're attracted to certain types of people. But why is that automatic distinction there? I don't know if I quite understand the question. I mean, you have to be able to tell people apart for reasons that are too obvious to explain. And once we've evolved not to all look identical, then given the nature of sexual attraction, we're gonna have to find some people more attractive than others, aren't we? However, some people would say that they could. Who you may see is ugly, someone else may see it, but that's evolutionary helpful. So it means we're not. I mean, for example, we're not all chasing the same person all the time. Have I misunderstood your question? It's just more. More about the automatic judgment where you would see the brain. The answer is sex. Ultimately, like it is the answer to most questions. If you bring humanity down to brass tacks, the answer is that, you know, to procreate, to replicate your genes, to reproduce, you have to be aroused. And you get aroused by what is attractive. If you got aroused by everything, well, you'd be in all sorts of trouble. I'll just leave it there. And you'd be 15 again. Yeah, but that's not a mystery, really, any more than the fact that you like different foods is a mystery, is it? I don't want to feel bad, Mars. I'm going with you wherever you say. I don't know what the MIT where the mystery is. The mystery for me is, and I'm loosely saying me, because my wife's totally getting the blame on this one, and she's put me right up front here with a dodgy question. First great opening question on mystery hour is a stitch up from the wife. I don't know. Why does our brain see people as ugly or attractive? What? She says, you know, she looks at some of the big nose, big ears, blah, blah, blah. And most people. Well, that's a judgment. There you go. But people say ugly. Exactly. But. Exactly. Some people like that. So what? But why do they. No, don't blame your wife. That's very unattractive, Mars. I'll try. So why does our brain see some people as ugly and some people as attractive? Yes. All right, you're on. I mean, to be fair, mate, you could not possibly have asked a worse question than the first two, could you? So you're already over the wire in terms of embarrassment. You've got nothing to worry about on that front. What the answer will that be to that? I do not. I love this. What lovely collection. So ugly and attractive. Irish and Caribbean and overs is zero. Zero. 345-606-0973 that is 034-5606 she's right. That's why they get. I can't do it with it. 034560. No, 6060. Not six. Jones the engineer says 600. You've been hearing me say the number for the best part of a decade. That's why I think. But we might go definitive with a slightly more complicated answer. I'm James O'Brien. You're listening to LBC. The time now 1216, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 20 minutes after twelve and you are listening to mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC where the mysteries we're trying to solve this week veer from the surreal to the slightly less surreal. Really? That's the only way I can think of putting it. Why have we started saying zero instead of o in phone numbers? I'm only going to go with Elaine's question on that because the other one sort of undermined it. Why don't we say zero all the time? O is a letter. I know that, but it explains itself, actually, when you try and say the phone number on this radio station. 0345-6060-9730-3450-6060-9 it's just easier. So why have people stopped doing it? Peter's in Staple house. Peter, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. Bring it on. Zero versus o. Zero versus o. Yes. If your radio station was Loc 973 instead of LPC, it would be complicated for. So it would confuse if you tap that into a computer and you put an o instead of a zero. It would get confused. It was your password and you used the letter. It should be a number that would be confused. You're James O'Brien, not James. Zero. Brian. That's how we know how to type your name into it. If it's. If there was only one. Yeah. But the question is, why have people started saying zero when they're reading out phone numbers? I used to work for the. For the post office years ago and we used to do telegrams. You had to read over the phone the message and then it would get printed at the distant end and you had to clarify whether you were talking about numbers or letters. So you would. So because we're doing more and more interacting with computers and machines, we need. There's an increasing call for clarity on whether we're saying o or zero. Yeah. A lot of people still use the o. I do. When I do. 0208 for a lambda number. Yeah, I do. Because zero is just like zero zero. It's like www. It's exactly like syllables when. Yeah, it's a mouthful. But the answer is computers, really. And we should use. I mean, there's lots of letters, there's no zero. Nothing, you know, zilch. But there's only one o. So we must protect the o. We must protect the o where it's needed. Protect the o. Peter. A round of applause. Oh, hang on. Qualifications? Um, I used to have to do telegrams and we had to make it very clear. Yeah. Or a zero. Go on, then. ROUND APPLAUSE Peter, well played. I'm getting some fascinating answers to the question about relations between irish and some caribbean accents. But I don't read out texts and emails unless I absolutely have to. So we've gone definitive on the first question. We also need answers to the. What is it about? What does the brain do? Why does the brain render some people attractive and other people not attractive? Simon is in Wembley. Question or answer, Simon? It's a question, James. How is one supposed to know what the law is? That's a beautiful question. Thank you. It really is. And what's made you ask it? Is there a specific context to the inquiry? We were having a discussion in the office about obscure laws, one of which I think was in 1986, it became illegal to handle salmon in suspicious circumstances. Now, obviously, we know what the rules of the road are. We have to buy a copy of the highway code and learn them in order to pass our driving test. We all know that murder and burglary and all that sort of thing is wrong. But the more obscure stuff, bearing in mind there's laws being introduced nearly every week, how are we meant to keep abreast of it? Well, I mean, ignorance is no defence in the law. Point of your question. But I don't know, actually, that you haven't unintentionally answered it yourself by using the word obscure. And laws that aren't obscure are the laws that you sort of learn. Just. I mean, some of them will be taught to you at school, some of them your parents will explain to you, some of them you'll read on signs, some of them, as you say, you'll read in books like the highway code. I can't really. You're salmon notwithstanding, I can't really think of any laws that are important that someone could reasonably claim to be unaware of. Can you? There is one where it's illegal for a shopkeeper to display a naked mannequin that could be seen by children under the age of ten. Yeah, but a shopkeeper is going to know that because he'd been on mannequin training. Mannequin training? Yeah. I just. I'd say I like the question, but I do honestly think that it's. It's. It's almost. I mean, it's almost a process of intellectual osmosis, isn't it? But there's got to be a crossover point somewhere where obscure becomes unobscure. It comes down to the circles that you move in, or. Precisely, that's human interaction. If it isn't obscure, if it's an important law, it will cease to be obscure because everyone will be telling each other about it. If, for example, we were a nation of shopkeepers, as Napoleon described us, and we hadn't really been to mannequin training, or we were sick that morning, then we'd all be telling each other. I'd come around and say, simon, mate, that mannequin in your window, you can't do that. There's children around. And you'd go, what are you talking about? Don't you know it's illegal? And you go, no, I didn't, but thanks, mate. That was close. And then it wouldn't be obscure anymore. I think it's just human interaction is the answer to your question. Hmm. I'm not convinced. I don't care. I'm taking the round of applause. Come on. Come on, yourself. It can't be any other answer. How do we know what laws are? Laws because we tell each other. How do I know that you can't have a mannequin naked how do I know? How do I know that you can't have a naked mannequin where children might see it? How do I know that? I don't know. I don't. Okay, hang on. No, I've got it. I've got it. Right. If you ever pass the question first. How do I know that you can't do naked mannequins near children? How do I know that? Because I've just told you. Bingo. Thank you. Round of applause. That's my proof. No, sorry. You still here? Yeah, I'm still here. What? Right, hang up. Because I have. I have a. I have a. Well, I have a point to make. What? That surely the people passing the laws have a responsibility to ensure that the people they are going to govern are aware of those laws. They can't just pass a law and leave it to word of mouth to make that law the law. That's what the statute book is for. So they stick it on the statute book, and once it's on the statute book, it spreads by a process of intellectual osmosis, dissipation and dilution. Actually, I'll have another round of applause for that, because that was a brilliant answer. Okay, Simon, thank you very much. All right, Sam's in Liverpool. Sam, question or answer? Hopefully an answer for you, James. Bring it on, man. Well, it's to do with the link between the irish and caribbean accents. Oh, yes. Yes. So the caribbean accents basically come from the colonial powers and the like that were in that area, and Britain was one of them. And it would have employed irish sailors and irish workers. So there will have been irish people there for that reason, but also in a slightly darker way as well. The British didn't just send people from Africa as slaves, they sent all kinds of people, including quite a lot of irish. And irish people were sent as slaves. And that wasn't just to the Caribbean, that was to the new world as well, to America. But, yeah, so you will have had it from some sailors, who will have. But it wouldn't. But what I'm hearing is on the site, you're getting a round of applause. All that's under dispute is whether or not you have to share it, because. Well, I'm hearing that there are some islands specifically where you can detect the accent heritage, the linguistic heritage. So I've lost the email now, but there's one where you can apparently pick up a west country echo. And there will be. Well, actually, Wayne is in Basildon. And stay there, Sam, because you're halfway there. But I just want to hear what Wayne's got to say. Wayne, is this the first time we've spoken since you became a dad? Yes, it is, mate. Congratulations. How are you finding it all? It's amazing, mate. When she looks at me, it's just like. It's like heat when you open an oven. Boom. Sketcher. Can I just explain to people listening that Wayne is six foot four and covered in muse tattoos? So I don't want you thinking that he's ordinarily indulging in the soppy stuff like this. Yeah, I'm a geyser. Hang on, I won't go that far, pal. I just said you're six foot four and you're covered in muse tattoos. Geezer. Geezer. What have you rung in for? It's the irish caribbean connection. Go on. Right, well, my dad's from Montserrat, which is known as the Emerald Isle of the Caribbean. And from what I know, it's where the Irish used to send a lot of their prisoners, slaves, to work in the plantation. And my surname is lynch, which is, again, the irish connection. So from what I. The only reason you know that your surname has an irish connection is because of Shane lynch out of boyzone, isn't it? No, it's not. Oddly enough, his birthday is a day after mine, but, yeah. And that's. That's where I get the irish connection from, in the sense of a lot of slaves were sent over there. The accent was kind of taken on by a kind of linguistic osmosis and that's where it comes from. That's where you get the similarities of tree and as three and all those kind of things. Love it. So, Sam, you can share with Wayne, can't you? After. After that. It's the first one, but I will gladly share with. What do you mean, it's the first one? It's my first ever. Round of applause. Oh, well, Wayne's. Wayne's at about 20, but he has just become a father. Wayne is up. What do you think, James? Let him have the whole thing. It's his first one. He. Sure, Wayne, I don't want to steal it. I've changed. You have, haven't you? Really matured since you became a parent. This is first one, man. All right. This is all for Sam? Oh, yes. Get in. Come on, Wayne, you can have this. Thank you. It's not for you, it's for the little one. It's James O'Brien on LBC. The time now is 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 26 minutes to one. Mystery air is. Is upon us. It's almost halfway through questions that still need answers. There's only one, isn't there? It's the ugly attractive. What does the brain. How does the brain decide or respond? React, communicate, attraction and whatever the opposite of attraction is. How does the brain decide someone is ugly and someone is not ugly? And then, of course, it's time for more questions. The number you need to get yours on the board remains zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call. Professor Martin Smith is a professor of robotics at Middlesex University. He's rung in with an answer, presumably, to that attractive, unattractive question. Professor Smith, what would you like to say it is the answer to the unattractive, attractive question? I hope so. Although we live in the space age, we've been evolving for billions of years from the Stone Age, and it's really down to evolutionary psychology. So, for example, women have been for billions of years looking for men who are sufficiently fit they can run after and catch food and avoid being caught by predators. So they're looking for a man who's got not a lot of fat and powerful shoulders. So a woman will tend to be looking for a man who's a bit taller than her, a bit powerful, a bit confident, assertive, those kind of things, dominant, able to look after the babies and children and her. And similarly for the man, he's looking for a woman who's healthy, fit, has fairly wide hips, so bare children, and generally produce healthy offspring, so his genes can be. So it's all. I mean, as often it all comes down to sex then, really more about survival and survival of your genes. That's what sex is for. Well, okay, so I know you're trying to be all po faced and academic, but I'm not. I'm not going to leave sex off the menu. And that tallies with my own personal theory that I have no scientific support for, or possibly I do now, in that the fashion, the vogue in this era for incredibly skinny women doesn't actually reflect what's sexually attractive. It reflects what often gay men want to put their frocks on in terms of supermodels and catwalks. Well, yes, it's partly that and partly the fact it's much easier to design a single dress that'll fit lots of people rather than if you've got a woman who's got an hourgarth figure, that's more. You've got to design the dress to fit a dozen different women. So walking coat hanger, as it were, provides a much better canvas for your sartorial creations. Professor Smith, what a lot of ground we've covered. And it has earned you this. Thank you very much. Anthony's on the finishley. Right. Question or answer, Anthony, quick question. Yeah. And why in football is the referee known as the referee? And in cricket he's known as the umpire. Well, because in football he's known as the referee, and in cricket he's known as the umpire. Yes, I know, but you might as well. Why is cricket known as cricket and football known as football? Agreed, but why? That is because it's two different sports. But the title given to the person supervising the match, why in football did he refer to as a referee? And why in cricket is he referred to as an umpire? So you, you want to know why they're not both called the same name. Correct. Okay. It's, um, it's, it's to do with the origins of the sport, I imagine. So I just, I'm thinking umpire is probably french, but I don't know what referee is. I must be honest. It's a, I was a cricket match last year. I have tried to remember earlier with this question. Yes. I have no idea the origin of either of the games. Well, umpire. Umpire is going to have french roots. I looked it up in the opposite. So simply the empire and umpires, a referee. So I'm just curious. Yeah, but I'm thinking about the origins of the sport. So sports that have that, I mean, cricket would have its origins. I don't know how old cricket is, actually, but baseball has umpires and that's really new. It's a nice question that, mate. Sorry, I wasn't, I wasn't impressed. Oh, thanks. Thanks. I only thought of that if you go to a football match, which I've been to with the kids, and at the end of the game, they, if somebody's winning, they shout out, blow the whistle. Oh, hang on. Does an umpire stand still? Well, he stands at the end of the end of the one end of the sticks, whatever it is they're watching the game, is a supervisor. He's supervising the match. Well, okay. A referee will apply laws to the game they are playing. So the producers written on the screen. But, but the umpire will ensure the laws or rules are being maintained. Does that make any sense to you? Nor me? That's why, that's why we, that's why we never let the producer write things on the screen during mystery hour. It just ends up embarrassing everybody. I think it's standing still. Or linguistic origin, but I'll find out for you. I don't think there's. Because you're right. You look it up in the dictionary. Umpire and referee are synonyms. They mean the same thing, don't they? Yeah. Zero. 345-606-0973 good work, Anthony. What's the difference in a referee and an umpire? Might be nothing. In which case, the question then does become linguistic. Warren is in Northwood. Hello, Warren. I am. How are you, mister O'Brien? I'm very well indeed, thank you. What's on your mind this week? Um, what? The question I've called in about. Well, yeah. Apart from many other things. Yes. No, yes. Just. Just. Okay. I think it's better to keep it at that, don't you? Yes, absolutely. Um, toilet. I want to talk to you about toilet. Okay. Yeah, right now, you know. Oh, they're free still, aren't they? Okay. Um. You know when you want to go to the loo? Yeah. Which brings up another question. Why is it called a loo but we won't go down that road? Because that's not the question I want originally for an inbound. Right, okay. And you probably wouldn't know the answer to that anyway. I do know the answer to that. Right, okay. But what's the french word for water? Oh, yeah. Low. Low, yeah. What's that got to do with low water? Closet? We were speaking, Norman. We were posh when toilets were first invented. Okay, carry on. Hmm. Moving on. So you can go all day, you know, when you're at work or you're doing something and you're really, really busy and you know you want to go to the loo, but you just don't go. You haven't got time or you're just busy. Yes. Right. So you may be shopping. You want to go to the. I'll wait till I get home. I wait till I get home. You hold it and you hold it and you hold it. As soon as you get in that front door, you can hold it no more. Even before the front door. Even when. Yeah, when you get your keys out. You know, when you get your keys out, you're like, oh, my God, I can't find the key. I can't find the key. Absolutely. Got that. And you get through the front door, and you literally have to run because it's almost coming out. Yeah. All right. Yeah, yeah. Why? Well, I don't know, people. Because it. No, no, I don't mean why no more, but why? Why when you get. Why when you get your keys? Out. Does your bladder give up? Well, it does, but you could have had. You could have held it. I know. For hours from the station to the house to the front, half hour from the bus stop to the house and you're fine, you know, you're conscious of it and. Fine, I'll do it when I get there. Get your keys out your pocket. Boom, boom. All bets are off. But, but why? But why? Why indeed? That's all I want to know. Can we have a doctor or someone phone up and try and sort out that problem? My. My six year old told me a joke this morning that you reminded me of three children at the playground. You've probably heard it before. Three children at the playground. And I'm teaching her how important it is to pay attention. And she told me this joke as a result. And a fairy appears and says, you can all have a wish when you go down the slide. Just call out for whatever it is you want to reach at the bottom. And the first one goes down and goes, sweeties. And gets down and lands in a massive bucket of sweeties. And then the second one comes down and goes, chocolate. And it lands at the bottom in a massive bucket of chocolate. And then the third one, who doesn't pay attention and hasn't really heard what the fairy said, goes down the slide and goes, whee. Maybe they can answer the problem. It's 1242 Warren. Thank you. Andy's in Wimbledon. Question or answer? Question or answer, Andy. Question. James. Hello? Hello? Right, somebody's been bugging me for a while now. Long distance train drivers. Cross country, I guess. Drivers who drive from, say, out in a Cornwall up to Scotland or north of England when they come to the end of the shift, or the last train, say they live in Falmouth, in Cornwall. The last train takes them to Glasgow, for instance. What's. When it would. Well, what would you be? Wouldn't. Well, it just wouldn't. Because his car will be back in Falmouth. Exactly. Hey, so how does it get home? Well, he doesn't go to Glasgow, mate. His shift finishes in Falmouth. Yeah, but. And if it doesn't, he gets on it. That's just how it works. No, no, no, it's gotta be more than that. Excuse me. Why does it have to be more than that? Well, yeah, okay. Midlands to London. I mean, shifts, all different train journeys, obviously take different. Everyone. Everyone's got a base station, a home station. Correct. And their shift will be designed to take them from their home station right around their houses and then back to their home station. So what you're saying is they're not working the hours, actually working the journeys. Both. No, the train. The trains go up and down all day. So, I mean, London to Manchester, go anywhere else? London to Manchester, Manchester to London, London to Manchester, Manchester to London, they end up where they started. I mean, what other old answer could there be? No question. I don't. This is why it's a mystery hour. This is why it's been bugging me. Why is it bugging you? Some. Some of them might get pop in a hotel occasionally, like pilots do when they're between stopovers. But what do you mean, generally speaking? Yes. Well, it's different. There's no r here. There's no r. Listen, you're just going for a round of applause. I know you. What do you mean you know me? I'm right. You're not. Okay, what about the London tube drive? Well, that's even easier. Yeah, yeah. What I'm saying. Last train say to, I don't know, Hertfordshire, Chester. Yeah. And they live down in Morden, Surrey. Yeah, but they don't. But they do. No, they don't. They started their shift in chess and started in there. Yes. Right, just hang on. A train driver. A train driver. My kingdom for a train. Have we got a train driver on the line yet? I'm gonna make a fool of myself now, aren't I? Obviously, by the more arrogant and condescending. I wasn't asking you, I'm just addressing the nation rhetorically. Back in your box. Have we got a train driver on the line yet? Because by now, I normally would expect. Hey, we go. Gary is in, Chip. So, Gary, are you a train driver? I'm not. I do work for the railway. No, that'll do. That's more than Andy does. Answer the question, please, Gary. Right, so a train driver will sign on at his home depot where he will book on duty, and as you say, he will drive a train and then end up back at his Home depot. The caller was asking. They won't drive all the way from Falmouth to, say, Scotland. They'll only do a very small portion of that route and then drive another train in the opposite direction back again. Qualifications? I work for the railway. Andy. Still there, mate? Or have you crawled away in shame, James? Oh, God. I've got to head you back. Gary. Gary, I'll split this with you, mate, because I'm not as generous as Wayne. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. 1246. It's 1251. You're listening to James O'Brien. On LBC. We're pretty much picking him off at random today at will today. Have we got anything left? Just the difference between a referee and an umpire. See, my initial suggestion that reference referees stand, run around and umpires stand still, apparently gets defeated by hockey zero. 345-606-0973. At Wimbledon. Of course, you've got a referee and an umpire, haven't you? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, curiouser and curiouser. Richard is in Uxbridge. Richard, how are you? Not too bad, James. How's yourself? I'm very well, mate. Are you interested in buying any t shirts that have been printed 1970s style with a sort of felt on them rather than just sort of color? It depends what the price would be. Right. I just. I just noticed where you're ringing from and I happen to know a very good t shirt shop in Uxbridge that has just started printing t shirts with that sort of upraised felt type technology on them. I don't know, I just thought I'd send you in their direction if you were looking for something. I'm quite familiar with that shop. Anyway, yeah, it's on the little high street just as you enter Uxbridge centre. That's the one, yeah, very familiar. Okay, thanks anyway. I'm just trying to spread the love. I tell you what, I recommended a curry house earlier and Seb Fontaine, superstar DJ, has been in touch to say he really likes it as well. It's all happening today. Richard, what did you ring in with? Well, I heard the issue in regards to the law and legislation earlier. I only caught the back end of it, to be honest with you, but I just wanted to define the difference between, like, the law of the land and the legislation, what them clowns make in parliament. So the law of the land is common law jurisdiction, so as long as you don't cause harm, injury and loss to anybody, you've not broken any law. Whereas legislation is statutory and that requires the consent of the governed. So I just wanted to clarify that. Well, I'm going to give you a round of applause for adding to the sum total of mystery, our knowledge. But it doesn't. It doesn't undermine the answers given, does it, initially, necessarily, in terms of how do you know? Well, how do you know that a law is a law? And the answer was that we tell each other. Right. Forgive me, I've misinterpreted it. No, you haven't. No, you haven't. You've given us a bit of, what would you call it? Supplementary information. Right. So, yeah, I suppose I'll go with that as well. Yeah, definitely. I'm gonna give you a round of applause anyway. Thank you very much. There you go. You can. You can exchange that round of applause in balcony shirts in uxbridge for a t shirt of your choice. You can't. Take care until the next time Danny's in Epping. Question or answer? It's a question. Yeah. I want to know why planets and stars are spherical, whilst asteroids and all of the other things are not. What do you mean, all of the other things? Well, comets and asteroids are not necessarily spherical, but all planets are spherical. Stars aren't spherical. Well, the sun appears to be. Well, that's one. I mean, that's just a sort of ball of burning gas. But not all balls of burning gas appear round, necessarily. They might look like a flame or something. If you're closer, perhaps so, but all. But all the star and the planets in our solar system are pretty much. And what shape are asteroids and comets? Well, they could be all kinds. I mean, the recent. I can't think. Is it Rosetta? Rosetta was a different reserve. Bring it on. Different shape. Ready? Yes. Okay. Go outside. Don't. But imagine what would happen if you did. And get several square bricks. Right, okay. And chuck them in the washing machine and turn it on a fast cycle. What's going to happen? But that's the friction. But there can't be any friction because there's no atmosphere. Over the years, what do you think an asteroid is? Where does it come from? But. Hmm. I don't know what you've got. You've described the planets, which over billions and billions of years have been sort of filed down to become circular, because that is the nature of being in orbit and hitting things on a regular basis, or losing. And then you're describing the bits that are getting knocked off them, which is your asteroids and your comets. I'm not going to lie to you, I'm making this up. It sounds feasible, but I'm not sure. I'm pretty impressed by myself, though. Let me check with Jones, the engineer. Any. Any size. He says. He says. Sighs something to do with size, apparently. All right, so why are planets and why are planets round and asteroids and comets not round? Yes, all right, I'll leave it on the board. And I apologize for my pathetic attempt at answering that question, Danny. Thank you. Helen's in Wadhurst. Helen, question or answer? Hello. Hi, James. It's an answer and I'm going to try and be very delicate. It's an answer to the needing to go to the loo question. So for people to hang on, for people who missed it, you can walk all the way home from the bus stop or the station, conscious of the fact that you need a wee, but it's not pressing. You get to your front door, pull your keys out your pocket and boom, you've absolutely got to go right now. Why? Yes. And it's your brain being quite clever. And in order to go to the loo, your brain has to send messages down to your bladder and all the tubes to say, right now you can go. And your brain is just saying, it's going to happen any moment, so I'm going to get ready. But because your bladder is so full and there's quite a significant amount of pressure behind it, it's quite hard to then hold it that last little bit. And the equivalent is if you've got a very full bladder and you try to stop yourself weeing whilst mid weeing, it's really difficult to do. But if you've got a relatively empty bladder, you can do that because there's less pressure behind it. And so it's just your brain getting ready psychologically saying, oh, I'm nearly there. And your brain goes, there's nothing you could do to stop it because you can't fool your brain into thinking that you're not home. No. And what if I went to my neighbor's front door? What if I went to my neighbor's front door and got my keys out there? Well, you better hope they'd open it. What are your qualifications, Helen, when I'm your speech and language therapist, I've got absolutely nothing to do with going to toilet, except I've done a lot of anatomy and physiology in my studies. Well, there you go. That's why you know this. Okay, anatomy and physiology expert. And it's Andrew. This. Oh, made my day. And now I need to. It's the moon. I was about to say. That sound effect there, Helen, sounded like you just got your keys out of your pocket. Peter is in Warrington. Peter, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Answer to your planets. Excuse me. Are you suggesting that my own explanation was something less than definitive? I was trying to call in desperately because it's end of the show. To save my embarrassment. We've only got a minute left. Go on, do your worst. Well, if anybody is big enough, then the force of gravity overcomes the strength of the material and pulls it into a spherical shape. Obviously for stars, the gas, so it doesn't take much force. But for planets, you have dwarf planets such as Ceres, which NASA visiting soon. That's just about big enough to pull itself into a sphere, as there was a slightly smaller asteroid that existed last year. His name, I forget, which is actually more elongated shape. Yes, because it was too small. It's gravity and orbit. Is it? Well, it's nothing to do with the orbit. Fine. Just trying to restore a little bit of credibility back, a little bit of self respect. But that didn't go well. The gravity can overcome the strength of the material, but surely it has to be something to do with the fact that it's going round and round, otherwise it would keep on pulling into a. Into a. Into a sort of long stroke. It's the gravity of the body itself. It's not to do the gravity. But Jones was right. He said it's all to do with size. Yes. You are brilliant, mate. What are your qualifications? I'm a scientist and I. May I follow all these things on the astronomy blog? So what sort of scientist are you? I'm a nuclear scientist, actually. I feel so small. That's it for me for another day, Peter. You take care, mate. Ring me again or Mistria. I'm James O'Brien, this is LBC. The next voice you'll hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Never argue with a nuclear science.