Watch modelling - why are the hands in the same place?

On LBC, three minutes after twelve is a time. A very good afternoon indeed to you. If you're not familiar with this part of the program, then allow me to suggest, very modestly, that you're in for something of a treat. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of enlightenment that's fast going out of fashion in the current climate. It's a celebration of knowledge, of education, of expertise. But don't feel excluded if you don't think that you are an expert, because you might have watched something on telly last night that qualifies you to. To ask a question. Answer a question. I beg your pardon? It's the radio equivalent, if you will, of those newspaper features where a reader writes in, ask a question, and a few weeks later they get an answer from another reader. Except it's much funnier than that, and much more exciting and much, much sexier. Seriously, it's brilliant. It needs numbers. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need if you have a question. A who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whither whence, even the occasional wherefore. Why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's that all about? Why are we? What, who, why, where, when? Anything, anything at all, as long as it's not boring. You might not know whether or not something is boring, so we reserve judgment on that. I'm afraid you'll be politely invited to move along if Rosie and Caroline consider your inquiry to be rubbish. The only other circumstances in which I'd rather you didn't get on air is repetition. But that's entirely my lookout, really. These days you can go to LBC dot co dot Uk, have a look at the archive. It's great fun, actually, but it gives you an indication of whether or not the question you're toying with asking has already been asked. Otherwise, you wait until you hear somebody ask a question to which you do know the answer, and then you get in like Flynn. You call me immediately and provide resolution. I'll ask what your qualifications are, by which I don't mean, you know, I'll bag a gymnastics award for James, or a PhD in quantum physics. I just mean, where did you get that nugget of knowledge that you've just shared with the rest of us? So it could be that you're the professor of robotics at Middlesex University, or the professor of the public understanding of science at the University University of Brighton, both of whom are regular contributors to the program. Or it could just mean that you saw it on QI or the Simpsons or you read it. I just need to know how you know, because that's the only indicator I've got of deciding whether or not you can go definitive. And if you go definitive, you'll receive a mystery. A round of applause if your qualifications for answering the question are close to perfect. So if I say, well, how do you know that? And you say, well, I was actually the first person to go up centre point, James, after it was completed because my dad was the architect. Da da da da da. If your qualifications are perfect, you'll get a Ray Liotta. If you don't know what that is, well, let's just hope that someone rings in today with perfect qualifications. Should we crack on? I think that's it. Barry is in. Victoria. Barry, question or answer? Question, please. Thanks. Go on, mate. Yeah. Just got back from Abu Dhabi. Went out to watch a cricket match out there, actually. Oh, yeah. They got a camel racing channel on television. A whole channel for camel racing? A whole channel for camel racing. What's it called? It was all in Arabic. I couldn't understand it. The reason I'm asking you the question is, camels are going on on a track. There's no jockey on them. They haven't got, like, a graham with a hair to chase, and yet they're racing. And you got whole parade of cars which go along to the side of them. They go over long distances or short distances. What I can't understand where anyone knows the answer is what makes them run. There must be a reason for it. I love this. What inspires the. Were you sitting in your hotel room in Abu Dhabi watching camel racing on the telly and thinking, I'm going to phone James or mister when I get back and find out who makes these camels run. Do you know, I've always wanted to ask a question on your show and I was sitting there and I thought, this is a question. Love it. I love it. How do they get the camels? How do they get. Did you see the beginning and the end of the race? And they don't just sort of slap them on the backside or something like that? No, they seem to have a start. I mean, the ones I watching were mostly recorded, you know, so they just sort of went out and you didn't actually see how they started, but they seem to have some sort of pack on the back, almost like, I don't know, you do it like sheep racing. And they get. They put these things on there. Oh, okay. So why do the camels run in camel racing in Abu Dhabi? That's the question. Can I ask you a question? Go on. Did you have a bet? A bet? I don't think you're allowed to. Didn't. What's the point of the camel racing? You can't gamble in muslim countries. It's a very state. It's a status thing. It's like falcons out there and things like that. So you want to have the fastest camel? Your fastest camel is like a status symbol. Fastest camel, yeah. Fastest camel. Why do camels run? I find out for you. At least I hope I will. In Abu Dhabi. Zero. 345-606-0973 nice one, Barry. Welcome home. Elsa is in Islington. Elsa. Question or answer? Oh, question, please. James. Good afternoon, by the way. Hello to you, too. I'd like to know why the queen's guards wear bearskins on their heads. Because I've had some good laughs in the past, watching the changing of the guards and things in the weather when they're falling down over their face. And I'm just curious as to why it has to be a bearskin. It's a bit callous of you. Why? I'm just curious because the animals, like, you know, being the tradition of wearing a bearskin on your head, it's something to do with Canada, isn't it? And the coast probably linked to the commonwealth. You want to know why you wear such a. I mean, ostensibly ridiculous hat? That's exactly right. Down in the rain and everything over their faces. No, I know this. I know this. Yeah, yeah, yeah. When they were in the field battling, they used to keep their sandwiches under it. Oh, really? Yeah. Oh, no, they don't need to keep their sandwiches now, do they? Well, no. So the question can't be, why do they still wear it? Because the answer to that will just be tradition. But why? Why did they wear such an odd hat in the first place? Is the question, isn't it? Yes. Good. Okay, you're on. If you know the answer to that, give me a call. If you know what? You don't know why camels run? No, you can't do that. Why do camels run? And why do bears. Why do the queen's guards wear the bear skins? Andy's in Canterbury. Andy, question or answer? Answer. Question. James. Go on. My vegetarian ex girlfriend wouldn't touch meat. Used to shovel eggs down like nobody's business. And scrambled if they come. And every time we'd go out and she'd order a vegetarian breakfast, there would be eggs on the plate. Yes. Or eggs. Meat. Because at some point they become a chicken. And if they're not meat, when do they become meat? Well, the eggs that your girlfriend eats are unfertilized. Yeah, but we live in the country, James. If you get a bunch of your eggs and you put them to one side, you might get some chickens, and besides which, they're not a vegetable. So they're an egg. They're an egg. Yeah, but an egg has the capacity to send. But you can't. I don't. I mean, you did. Look, it's mystery out. I like your question. It's funny. Maybe not that funny, but I mean, your question is simply, are eggs meat? To which the answer is no. All right, at what point? You knew that already. No, but at what point can they become. It was sparked off by my little boys asking me one of those daddy questions where you can't answer it. Yes. So I've got to get them some sort of an answer. And the words that we get come from neighbors and friends, etcetera. And there is a good chance that these chickens, if you go and put them in the earring cupboard, you'll get chickens out of your eggs. So, I mean, they can become meat. Are you sure about that? Not 100%, no, because a fertilized egg is still edible even if it's being fertilized. But most of what you eat is not. Is not what turns into the chicken, is it? Most of the yolk is the food for the. No, I'm on pretty shaky ground here. I'm not there. That's the thing. No, I know, but I can't ask whether. At what point does a fertilized egg become meat? It's just not right. It sounds really weird as well. Why do you think I didn't answer it? And I've laid the question at your door. Sometimes you break an egg and it's got a kind of. Because I had chickens and I didn't have a rooster. Be careful. My choice of words at this point in proceedings. But sometimes there's blood in the egg, isn't there? So you know that when you've got a fertilized egg, it's just gross. This question, I don't know that you should have been allowed on. Now I feel all icky. Oh, well, because it's. It's part of a kind of menstrual cycle as well. So you're left with the veg. You know what's really spooky? We don't need to go there, James. No, you're right, we don't. But while we're on the subject of eggs. Do you know what? You know that Simon and Garfunkel song, mother and child reunion? Go on. Did you know it? Not particularly. Mother and child reunion is based on a dish in a chinese restaurant that Paul Simon was eating in, and it was eggs with chicken. And when it was translated from the Chinese, it was called mother and child reunion, which put me right off my chinese dinner the other night. I'll just share that with you, mate. We've already spoken to Ulster in Islington, I think. So. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time. Why do camels run in camel racing in Abu Dhabi? At what point does an egg cease to be an egg? We can do it that way around. That doesn't sound as icky, does it? And why do the household cavalry that wear the bearskins? But anyway, the origin of the bearskin as headgear. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour on LBC. If you can answer any of those, give me a ring if you've got a question of your own. Ditto. Gregory's in Redbridge. Gregory, question or answer? It's an answer to the camel racing question. I'll get in. Get in. The gentleman sort of correctly identified. There's a little pack on the back of the camel. Yeah, the camels aren't allowed to race with people on them. Or presumably people don't want to race in the back of the camel because it probably hurt quite a bit. I think I've seen pictures of children sitting on the back of camels in camel races, but I might have dreamt it. Go on. Well, what that man saw on the back of the camel, it's actually a little pack. It's got, believe it or not, it's like a robot that whips the camel. Shut up. I give you my word. Shut the front door. Yeah. It's got a little mini robot on his back whipping the camel, which whips the camel. You're about a week late for April the first. I give you my word. Really? Yeah, it whips the camel. Not like a little electric. What are your qualifications on this matter? I saw it, although I did do ten years in the betting industry. I saw it on a documentary. I'd like to say it was something sort of Michael Portillo s, but I think it was at the other end of the intellectual spectrum. It's something like Top Gear or something like that. I like Top Gear. So, I mean, what did the robot look like? Why don't they have visible robot it looked great. If you could see a robot, like a sort of robot monkey sitting on a camel's back, that's exactly what it's like. It's like a little robot monkey arm that whips. It's the most bizarre thing. So if Barry, who asked the question, had been at the actual race, rather than watching it on a telly with a confusing commentary, he might have seen that for himself. You could see it close up. Yeah. I mean, I don't know whether the robots have evolved from sort of just being yanking my chain, Gregory, and. Yeah, I think you're not. At the same time, this is why it's such a good. They have to have an impetus and that is their impetus. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but if I. If I come to regret it, I'm going to be furious, mate. All right. I will spank you like a camel. This is the best out of my life. It's 12:15 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 19 minutes after twelve, and it's true. If you follow me on Twitter jamesob. The last two tweets out of that account include a still photograph and some video footage of camel racing featuring robot jockeys. I still should have seen this sooner, Andy, you deserve a special badge today. Why do camels run? James, he has texted 284850. I don't know. They just. Abu Dhabi do. No, just me. Oh. Rachel is in Ringmere. Rachel, question or answer? I have a qu. I have a question. Excellent. How old are you, Rachel? I'm eight. Eight years old. What's your question? Why do people put candles on a birthday cake? Not anything else. I think I might know this. So did you. You had eight candles on your last birthday? Yeah. There are two theories about candles on birthday cakes because my little girl asked me this question once and I looked it up. The first is quite a sweet one, in that, you know, you make a wish. You're supposed to make a wish when you blow out the candles. Yeah. The idea is that when it was a prayer, before it was a wish, you'd say a little prayer and the smoke would carry your prayer or your wish up to heaven where God would be more likely to hear it. That's one theory. And the other theory, and I hope I can remember this name because it made us giggle when we looked it up, was that there was a very rich German who about three or 400 years ago, had a massive party and he wanted it to be the best birthday party ever. So he came up with the idea of sticking candles on a cake and lighting them. And his name, Rachel, was Ludwig von Zinzendorf. And you probably think I made that up, don't you? It's true. Ludwig von. Next time somebody asks you why there are candles on cakes, you have two choices. You can say it's so that the smoke carries the wish up to heaven. Or, and this is what I would advise you to do. You can say it's a tradition that dates back to the german nobleman Ludwig von Zinzendorf. Yeah. Okay. That is the truth. I got to take a round of applause now to prove it. Ludwig von Zinsendorf. Graham is. Ah, Graham, you're my man. What's this petition? I got to the story a little bit late, but I want to make sure I get the facts right. You're off to Downing street today? Yes. Thank you very much, James. Yeah, it's basically about the alleged corruption that, you know, about nine, I'm out in a Daily mail with Cameron Osborne, Rachel Whetstone, all that. It's just, it needs to be sorted. So the. So the petition is asking the government to look into the allegations reported regarding Boris Johnson being lent on to go easy on Uber because. Because of various friendships, relationships and investments undertaken. No, you know, I know. You need to stop buying private eye as well, mate. Don't wait for the Daily Mail to get across it. Private. I have been covering this for months. Years, actually. What, how many signatures are on the petition? That's it. So you're just going to get yourself down there and there's a protest today as well, in Whitehall. Are you involved in that or is that a different mob? No, it's all you. You've got the real limited, you've got the night Caddy group, you've got the main limiteda. We're all going to be there and it's got to be sorted, because London's coming to a grinding. Try to hire licenses. You're not wrong. Something's got to give and something's got to give and it's probably going to have to be the government. Graham, best of luck to you. It's a very, very big privilege that you got there, being allowed to introduce, to interrupt, mystery. I hope you appreciate that. And that's at Whitehall at 02:00. So if you're in town, be aware, Robert is in Sutton. Robert, question or answer? I have an answer, James. Is it Ludwig von Zinzendorf? That is not the answer I have. Carry on. It's the answer to why do the guards wear bearskin hats. Oh, yes. And the answer is that the guards were fighting for Wellington at the battle of. Forgive my pronunciation. Fuentes donoro. In Spain or, no, Portugal, I think. Yes. This was 1811, I think. Yeah. And, yeah, the Napoleon's imperial guard were at the battle as well. The guards tore into them, pretty much destroyed them, and took the bearskin hats as trophies and they've worn them ever since. So Napoleon's mob wore them originally, yes. Do we know why? I think it was just to make them. To make look taller and more fearsome. But don't quote me on that. No, I like it. So. So it was a port. It was. It was a french invention that we nicked as a sort of trophy of war. Absolutely, yeah. Qualifications? I've read shops by Bernard Cornwall. Is it from Bernard Cornwall? I love those books. I haven't read that. Have you read what's his chops? The flashman books by George MacDonald Fraser. Oh, no, I've only seen the film. Well, I put that on your list. Seriously, if you love sharp, you'll love Flashman. And because I'm like you, I sometimes find I know stuff that because of fiction, that I've read historical fiction, I pass it off as academic knowledge. Oh, yes, I'm very familiar with the napoleonic wars and the headgear of the napoleonic. Makes it sound like you've been to college to study it specifically, but you just get it out of. Almost like, smuggle information in. Round of applause for Robert. Nicely played. Better be true after all that. Big enough. Vic's in Worcester. Vic. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Hello, Vic. What is it? I want to drag the level down a bit now. Talking to grants on the weekend on their favorite pop and their favorite fizzy drink, and you might know what it is, the big one. Go on. And I said all my favorite was Dandelion and Burdock. Oh, I like Dandelion and Burdock, but. And then they said, what, with no dandelions, but what's Burdock? I think it's a root and I can't answer them. I think it's a root. I think it's a root, but, you know. My friends know. No one knows. Nobody knows. Don't need to. Thought you'd know. The hunt of knowledge, you are. Yeah, that's a very polite way of saying, you smug know all git. I, um. I think it's a root, but I can't give myself a round of applause. Someone else is going to have to go definitive on that, just describe the flavor for people not familiar with dandelion and Burdock. It's a strange flavor. It's like a sweet vinegar. Oh, you're a poet. Hey, it is like a sweet vinegar I've shot myself. It's quite medicinal. It is. It's. It's almost. It's almost. It's almost like a very pleasant cough mixture. Yes. It's not decent. Of course, in your part of the world, you get greys. Herbal remedies. We get everything out here. Do you know where we are? Right in the middle of nowhere. The graze. Herbal remedies you can only get in the midlands. I can only get them when I come home. You know those cough sweets? Yeah. I used to buy them from dukes in Chattersley. Corbett. Have you ever got yourself over to church anywhere? Little lovely little tea, lovely little village. Lovely little village. Beautiful little. Well, clouds top. Where? Olives. A nice little place. You in, cloud. Stop. You're never in clouds. I was. I'm in rock. I used to serve your mum to meat years ago. You used to what? I used to serve your mum to meat years ago. You used to serve my mom meat? Yeah, she used to come into the butchers on Claire's top. Well, it's a small world, isn't it, Vic? Very small, honestly. Should be listening now as well. Doesn't get much smaller than Claire's top, I'll tell you. Well, you know, I grew up in Haberley, just down there's a beautiful village, isn't it, the manor? It's Aberley, the pub. No, you're thinking of Aberley. I'm talking about happily. Oh, no. Towards French, with the fountain. It's flats now, though. Yeah. Great pub, that. Back in the day, we had a happy times down the valley, habily valley, up Beckett's rock, all of that. I once drank dandelion Burdock at the top of Beckett's rock. In Aberley Valley. That's right, that's right. That's where that chap has built that house, that thing in the caves. That's it. That's it. Sit down the other end. You can rent it out like a rock. Ah, get all homesick now, Vic? Hey, big sponsored walk this weekend for the Harriers. Are you aware of it? Harriers? I'm going in two weeks time. Well, get onto the. Just giving page. Go over to the website. I've been in touch with them. They've got a big sponsored walk underway for a very good cause. I was going to mention it yesterday, but you give me an opportunity to mention it earlier, Vic. God bless, mate. Oh, I miss my mum now. I'll give her a ring after the show. Burdock. What's the burdock in dandelion? Burdock. At what point does an egg cease to be an egg? Fertilized egg. You can fill in the gaps yourself. We've done the bearskins and we've done the camels. Andy's in slough. Andy, question or answer? Oh, it's a student's inquiry, I'm afraid, mate. Oh, no way. Already? It's not even hard. Yeah, go on, then. Which one? Which one? It's the best in caps. Oh, no. Yeah, I'm afraid they weren't captured in Portugal. They were captured in Flanders at the battle of Waterloo. And the origins are that every grenadier regiment in the british military and the french military wore bearskin caps to make them look taller and more intimidating. Because they were the men who did the hand to hand fighting. Yes, but the imperial guard of the emperor of France, Napoleon, his imperial guard, everybody wore them. And they were supposed to be his elite troops, but they weren't a touch on the British Guard. And we handed under our ass. That's all right. And we handed it to him and we captured it as a trophy. That's. I love it. And your ex guards yourself, I gather. Yeah, I was in the guards for six years, so. Yeah, six years to the color. I'll give you a round of applause as well. But I'm not. I'm not confiscating the last fellas because it made. No, no, he was right. He was right. Just wrong battle. It might have happened at more than one battle, though. It probably happened at more than one battle. Whenever you got that. Whenever you got the napoleonic imperial guard on a. You know, whenever they were getting a hiding, we probably nicked their hats. Not just at one roll. Round of applause. Thank you very much. They're not very comfortable, though. No, they're horrible. Wearing them for three or 4 hours on the queen's birthday parade. This bloke should get. They pass out. I know, it's horrible. That's why the woman asked the question in the first place. She thinks it's funny when you brave, brave military men pass out under the weight of your heavy hats. It's coming up to 12:30 I've got some phone lines free, actually, because we've been ticking off answers. So if you've got a question, give us a call. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What is Burdock in dandelion and Burdock? Lovely drink. Lovely drink. Dandelion. If you like root beer, you'll like dandelion and Burdock. It's quite an acquired taste, route beer, isn't it? But dandelion and Burdock similarly speaks of a. And eggs. At what point does a fertilized egg cease to be an egg and become instead a kind of, I don't know, embryo in a shell? It's coming up to 12:30 is the number you need if you can answer any of the remaining questions, or indeed, if you would like to ask one for yourself. I've just had a text of Ibrahim, who's in Camden, who is formerly a camel race organiser in Doha and Qatar. So I'll give you some more information about the world of camel racing after the news as well. It's not a stewards inquiry, but there are some. Oh, dear. Really? They apply it where there's some interesting tactics he shared with me about how to get your camel to run faster without relying exclusively upon the little robot. Monk. 1233 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. I've got room for questions. Caroline's got the hump today. She says the questions aren't up to a very high standard. Don't, don't blame. Don't shoot the message. I'm just telling you what she said. So if you've rung in and you've asked a question, you haven't been invited to hang around or get run back, it's because you're rubbish. Alright, so it's up the game. Zero. 345-606-0973 is a number to call. Give me an example of a rubbish question so that people know what a rubbish question is. I'll tell you in a minute. Cracking on with the ones that still need answers. What's the burdock in dandelion and Burdock and that egg question, which we've de ickified. So instead of asking, at what point does an egg become meat? We're just asking, at what point does it cease to be an egg? So a fertilized egg is a fertilized egg and at one point it will be a chicken or a chick. So at what point? And maybe it's just a weird question that Vince is in Adelstan. Vince question or answer? It's an answer, James. Go on, Vince. It's. With regards to the Burdock, it is actually a biannual weed that you'll probably see quite a lot in the countryside. And a lot of people recognize it from the little prickly ball that you get on top that children used to throw at each other on their school jumpers. That's the burn. Yeah, that's the bur. But that's the. That's the plant. The bur dock. Is it the root of the bur dock? Yeah, the root is what they use for the dandelion and burdock. But is it a dock? Is it linked to dock leaves? No, because dock leaves, even though they're both called doc, they're both completely different species of plant. The docks obviously, like a very shiny, smooth, quite large leaf. But when you see bur dock, they're really, really large, bold foliage on those. So unmistakable. It's the root of that that we cook up. You can dig it up for starch. It's quite deep. You can dig right down and you can use that. It's like a potato. When you dig it up. You can actually roast it over a fire. So, like. Like a Jerusalem artichoke or something like that? I'm not familiar with the Jerusalem artichoke, so I can't comment on that. But I'm just talking about you. Ever, if you ever want to be exceptionally flatulent, get stuck into some Jerusalem artichokes. I'll make a note of that, yeah. Good. What are your qualifications, mate? It's a beautiful answer. Thank you. I give guided walks for the National Trust on edible medicinal plants. Oh, God. Come on. That's just. That's pretty. That's cool, man. I think you've done it. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. That's going straight down on my resume. You really do that as well for the National Trust about. Yes, indeed, yes. Do you think is root beer the same as dandelion? But I wonder if it's the same root that they use in root beer, because there's a real similarity between root beer and dandelion and burdock. Yeah, I would definitely say that, you know, with the name root beer, it pretty much gonna be very similar kind of process, mate. That is a real moment for me. And are you. How much of the heretic behavior of the National Trust are you personally responsible? Is it you that banned Easter, Vince? Were you involved in that process? No, I'm purely just. I come out as self employed. I go along and I just take the public along walks and like I say, I just tell them about all the edible and medicinal weeds that are just growing in the round. I'd like to go on something like that. What do I do? Just go to the National Trust website. They're going, National Trust and it's river Way. I'm doing a couple for them in May. All right, I'll look that up. That sounds absolutely fascinating. That national Trust website, by the way, has over 13,000 dimensions of Easter. Just in case anyone's still laboring under the nonsense that the Daily Telegraph published earlier this week. Matthew is in Manchester. Matthew, question or answer? Hello, James. Massive fan here from a kitchen in Manchester. You're very welcome. How nice to have you on board. I turn into Jeff stelling sometimes during mystery hour. I start doing these ludicrous sort of growls on the end of words. Manchester, what? Question or answer? Matthew, we've got a question, actually. Come on. We were just wondering, where did the playground game bulldog originate from? Because we've asked a few people, our friends and some people said they heard it in Ireland. We always called it british bulldog. Yeah, I thought that, but my friend said that they used to play an island, so I wonder what it was called there. I can't fully remember what she said, but it's not called Bulldog. So I'm just wondering how far back the game goes. I like it. Yeah. Origins of the game, Bulldog or British Bulldog? And this is the one where. Where you have a crowd of kids and one bulldog and the bulldog has to pick them off one by one. The game that's instantly banned. It is because it's vicious, isn't it? I mean, it's like a cross between sort of rugby and boxing. I think even setting up the game was quite fun. Behind the dinner, ladies back, everyone giving the eye going, should we do it? Let's go. Let's do it. You're younger than me. There was no health and safety in my day. Right, you're on. Whereabouts in Manchester are you from? Right, in the city center in Manchester. Oh, are you really? Wow. Cool. Okay, put that on the board. Where does the origin, origins of the games? British. We've done the burdock. We haven't done the eggs, but we've done the camels. Ibrahim's been in touch. In his day, they didn't have little robots when he was organizing camel races, but they did used to put Vic's vapour rub on the camel's bum to make them go faster. I don't know how you've got to this stage of your life without knowing that Jack is in Southampton. Question or answer, Jack. Question, please, James. Carry on. Jack. I'm in the market for a new watch at the moment and I'm looking at different brands, different shops, and I'm just wondering why all of the watch faces are set to eight minutes past ten or ten minutes to ten. No, eight minutes past ten. Are they? Yeah. Well, I know the answer. I just always thought it was ten to 1010 to two. Eight minutes past ten. Yeah, you're right, I'm wrong. It's 10:10 not eight minutes past ten. Yeah, and all the analog watch faces. Yeah, no, I know the answer to this. Really? Yeah. Why? Why? I think we've done it before. I don't know where I got the knowledge from. I think I got it off a horologist. Okay. Do you want to know? Yes, please. It's just because it's a smile. I was. I said that to my friend. Yeah, my friend and I said, it looks like a smile. So that's the answer, really? It's like the very most primitive form of marketing. It's just. It's a smile. So there's some sort of subconscious communication of happiness to you and you're more likely to buy a watch. But where did that start from? Well, I don't know. You're only allowed one question. You asked why? They're all set at 10:10 and the answer is because it looks like a smile. Well, okay, I'll accept it. What do you mean, you'll accept it? You should sound euphoric at this point in proceedings. No, that was. That was in my head. Well, then, you should be congratulating yourself on your prescience. It's now been confirmed by an actual expert. No, thank you very much. Thank you very much. I can sleep tonight. Thank you. Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and he joins me on the line now. Professor Howe, question or answer? Eggs, James. Eggs. I can't stand eggs. Really? I never knew that about you. No, they're revolting. They smell revolting. They're delicious. You're weird. Too gynecological for mine. Oh, don't be gross, mate. It's an egg. Don't bring all that into it. Go on. I'm going to bring it all into it because that's the answer to the question. Let's use human physiology as an analogy. So a human egg has got 23 chromosomes, which is called a haploid number. It's half the number of chromosomes. When a sperm fertilizer, it becomes a diploid number, and at that point, it ceases to become an egg. At the moment of fertilization, it becomes a zygote. Yes, yes. Which then turns into an embryo, which then turns into fetus, which then turns into a baby. And so we can draw exactly the same analogy with chickens eggs. As soon as it's fertilized, it's technically no longer an egg. It's a zygote. But you could still eat it without knowing. Yes, but yes, you could eat it and you'd see that little red speck that you so wisely described. They're not. They're not fertilized eggs necessarily, because I had little red specks in my eggs and there was no. There was no rooster in my garden. That's something to do with the. Someone's been in touch about that. But it's not. It's not relevant to your answer, which is moving closer to definitive with each passing nanosecond. Okay. And in the Philippines, I think there's a delicacy which is well developed fertilized ducks eggs. And you crack open the egg and there's a little baby duck in and that gets eaten as well. So the answer to the question is as soon as it's fertilized and that the haploid number becomes diploid, then it's no longer negative zygote. So that's in scientific terms. But in terms of. I mean, the original question was, when does it become meat? Which is. That's unanswerable. Really. Yeah. But you changed it to when does it cease to become an egg? No, exactly. So when the haploid becomes diploid. Yes. Round of applause for the professor. Do you really know you never eat eggs scrambled? They're revolting. And especially top of my list is either undercooked eggs or hard boiled eggs. Why would you eat something that smells like flatulence? Which is what it is. No, that's a bad egg you've got there, mate. You don't want to eat rotten eggs. If it smells like flatulence, you're not supposed to eat it, you prune. You're a professor. You're supposed to throw it out. No, hard boiled eggs do smell. They smell like. Hard boiled eggs tend. Yeah, there's a tendency of a hard boiled egg to lean towards the flatulence aroma. But generally speaking, eggs are, don't smell that way. But why would you put that in your mouth? How revolting. It's all right. Spoil. Spoil what? Yeah, I know, but they were probably hungry. You just spare a thought for the hungry people, will you? Callous old so and so. It's 1243 is the time. What about milk? You're wondering about chickens who thought, I'll have a bit of that. Adams in Wandsworth. Quick, Adam, raise the tone, will you? Everything's gone a little bit. Hello, mate. Question. It's a question, James. Go on. Why is a third world country called a third world country? It's a good question, that. Yeah. Where did it come from? Last time it was used? I mean, you know what it means. Well, we have a fair idea of what it means. You know what it means, but. Exactly, yeah. Why. Why are they called a third world country? Is there a first world or a second world? Well, you know, there's a first world. That's. That's kind of the. The most wealthy countries on the planet, and the third world will be the poorest countries on the planet, which means, theoretically, there are second world countries, but it's not a phrase in common parlance. Where did the phrase third world come from? Where did it come from? And. Yeah, I like that a lot. You're on. Good question, Adam. Take care, mate. It's 1244. Dawn is in Guildford. Dawn, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, dawn. So I'm about the same age as you grew up in the seventies. Spring chicken, then. And I suffered from car sickness. Yes. And I remember my dad and lots of other cars at the time. We used to hang this sort of leather strip from the rear bumper of the car. Do you remember this? I do, yeah. Yeah. You never see them anymore. No, you don't. Was there any science behind it? No. Did it work? No. Absolute. Absolute hogwash. Was it really? Yes. That's something to do with static electricity. Well, because someone was selling them, and good marketing and mugs. Like. Your dad fell for it. He did. And many others. Grab loads of others. You see him around. Oh, so they're a bit naff, because I only got travel sickness when I was reading books, but some people got it all the time. It just didn't work. It was supposed to take some form of disruption out of the car and leave it on the road. So you work out for yourself whether that sounds plausible. Well, enough people fell for it. No, stop saying that's not a defense. People used to think the earth was flat. Dawn. You can't just say, well enough people you're calling my dad Gellerbor. I know I am. I take that back. That was a really unpleasant sort of intervention on my part. You're right, it was. Your father didn't fall for anything. Your father was just part of a. Of a mass delusion. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Do you still get carsick? No, not at all. There you go. And you haven't got the thing on the back of your rear bumper anymore, have you? All true. That would be the other answer to your question. Thank you. Thank you, dawn. And my love to your dad. It's 1245 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's ten to one and we need to crack on. So, third world, what's that all about? The. I think, is that the only one left on the board? We need some more questions as well, so I'll come to you in a second, Sarah. I'm just going to go to Keith and East Finchley. Keith, question or answer? It's a question, James. Come on, Keith. So I've got a beard. I'm very proud of it. I'm very precious about it. I love it. It looks magnificent. Really. The question is, when did the ridiculous tradition of shaving off beards start and why did it come about? Yeah, I mean, it might be lost in the mists of time. It's probably a hygiene thing, wasn't it? You can't say that. It's very clean. Well, yours is. Yeah, I know, mate, but you've got hot and cold running water at home. You. Presumably, you've got. There's no shortage of soap and sundry other detergents and unguents, so you can. I mean. But generally speaking, if you were, you know, living back in the day, your beard would be full of all sorts of disgusting things. But presumably, once a family show, that entailed the removal of all bodily hair. Well, no, because your beard, most body hair stops growing. The cycle of pubic hair is such that it's not going to grow to the length of. It's not going to start growing out the bottom of your trousers if you leave it untrimmed. Whereas your beard would do, theoretically speaking, hair on your head, isn't it? So you'd look like the wild woman, a Borneo Keith, it does take a lot of work, a lot of grooming. Yeah, all right. You're sounding a little bit too fond of your beard, mate. The thing is. The thing is that, James, I was a setting sun until I grew up here. You were a what? I was a setting sun. Until I got a beard, I'd see if there is any historically recorded. Or someone can call me if there is any recorded incidents of shaving a beard becoming a thing. But I suspect it was just as soon as they found something sharp. The first thing they did was get this disgusting pelt off their faces because it stank. Sarah is in Birmingham. Sarah, question or answer? I have an answer for you about this third world question. Good. What is it? So it's also new with how our country was aligned during the cold War. So a first world country is a country aligned with the USA. A second world country was one aligned with Russia and third world was one that wasn't aligned to anyone. So it had nothing to do with comparative wealth back in the day? Yeah, that's right. Qualifications, sir? Well, someone told me ages ago that Ireland was technically a third world country, so I looked it up. Oh, I like that. Because of its historical neutrality. Yeah. And was it? It was a third world, theoretically, yeah. Ireland was. I like that. No, that'll do. You've got yourself. Whereabouts in Birmingham are you? I live in Edgewestern. Can we get that? Can I get across? Now that we're national, it's like saying London. We never said John's in London, do we? So John's in Basingstoke or John's in, so. But Edgbaston anywhere near as big as London. I know, but it's got lots of different places like Harborne and Bournville and Sutton Caulfield and Edgbaston and Selly Oak and Quinton. Yeah. So I just think. I just want to show more love to Birmingham. It's not some sort of weird homogeneous blob, it's lots of little villages and communities. Would you like a round of applause, sarah? Yes, sir. Can you sound a little bit more appreciative, please? Oh, yes, please. There we go. Manners cost nothing, Sarah. Okay, thank you, James. 1253 is the time. Sheena is in Hackney. Question or answer, Sheena. It's a question. Go on. Okay. I walk my son through Victor park to school every day and the grass, within 24 hours, was completely covered in spiders webs. Yes. And this was. Grass was the size of four or five football pitches. Wow. So I'm wondering, is it one spiderman? It was gorgeous, wasn't it? When the light caught it, it was good. I sent you a photo of it on your twitter when you were humming and Harold about taking questions on Twitter. Oh, I missed that. There's actually a picture of the sun hitting the spider webs of my son jumping in the middle of it. It's quite a few months ago now because it happened like. And it was. I noticed it in the winter time because the sun was low and it was reflecting off these spiders web. What a time to be alive. So I didn't know. Was it one spider? Many spiders? Why did it do it on the grass? How did it do it so quick? Well, it wasn't one spider, was it, you silly sausage? It must have been several spiders. So what's the actual question? What spider did it on the grass? Such a large size, within 24 hours. So what speak. What breed of spider? You want to know or. Yes, anything about what spider covers a massive expanse of football field size spiders webs. What's going on? Is the question. Yeah. Is this for your benefit or your son's? I love it. There you go. A little bit of Easter holiday enlightenment on the way, hopefully, because we're very short. Time. 1255, in fact, is the time. 0345-6060 so 973 is the number that you need. When do we start shaving? And those massive spiders webs on grass level on fields. What's going on there? What sort of spider is it? Stefan is in Salford. Stefan. Question or answer? It's a steward's inquiry, James. On the clock. Answer. No. Go on, then. Do your worst. So you said that they were set at ten to ten because they are aesthetically pleasing. Aesthetically pleasing look. But on most watches and clocks, the brand names is in the middle, at the top. Yes. That's also part of the answer. That's not a stewards inquiry, that's just an embellishment to my original brilliance. Because you can move the brand name, mate, can't you? Yeah, but. But the. But them. But most of them are in that place. And if you put them at. And if you put the hands at 04:20 say that's not as aesthetically pleasing. So you could put it anywhere else. Yeah. So the main reason is to show the brand name. No, it's not. If it. Because then they just move the brand name. It's chicken and egg, it's smiling, it's aesthetically pleasing, it's warming, it's lovely. And also it means you can put the brand name just sort of next to the three or whatever it is. I'd say the brand name. The brand name is the more important. No, I would say the smile was more imp. I'd say the smile was more important because they could have put the brand name anywhere. Are we gonna have a fight no, I'm gonna give you a round of applause because you're a lovely man. You're very welcome, but I don't think it's. Well, we were both right. I'll give you that. 50 50 Ian's in Dartford. Question or answer, Ian? That's an answer, Joe. Go on, mate. Earth straps on cars. Yeah. Up until, I suppose, the early seventies, all cars had a positive earth system. Yeah. So the live was earth onto the chassis, but as the introduction of alternators came along, it was that then changed to a negative earth, so that then the body of the car was not live. And I think that's the answer you're looking for. So that's what they were for. And then it just became a kind of urban myth that they helped cure car sickness. Well, whether it did or it didn't, remember, so many of them didn't. So, because, you know. Because there was never a point where all cars had them. No, it wasn't. Some people get travel sickness, some don't. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Ian, but I'm going to also use your contribution as a reminder of why we don't take motoring questions. Don't be offended by that. All right? Nothing personal, James. Nothing personal at all, my friend. Thank you. No, thank you. Roberts in Watford. Question or answer, Robert? Hello. It's answer, James, to the British Bulldog question. Good man. Yeah. Where's that come from? The heaviest one I've heard of. Back in spartan times, when the kids went into the agogos every year, they'd have, like, a glorified kind of sports day. Yeah. And one to find the champion of that year. And one of the games was a version of British Bulldog, where the kids would have a little bit of red rag hanging out their pants at the back, so to speak. And, yeah, the idea was to kind of grab that. So that would be like the version of the british bulldog we know now. Nicely played there. Qualifications, Robert? A massive fan of the ancient world and I heard it on a podcast. That's just brilliant. Round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That's great. We haven't done the shaving, though. Oh, hang on, Pat's in. God. All me. Pat. Question or answer? It's an answer. And it's to do with the shaving came about because of the Romans, because they were the warrior class and they had to be clean shaven so that the day couldn't be grabbed in battle. And that spread to everyone and it only switched in the victorian age with the crimean war when they couldn't get shaved and therefore it actually became a sign of nobility that you actually could grow beard. Oh, fantastic. The ancient Egyptians. Emma's been in touch to remind us they were big fans of shaving as well so it won't necessarily be that it originated with the Romans but that was religion. But it would be to do with that in terms of. It was. So you can't. I mean, if you. If we were having a wrestle, Pat, and you grabbed me by the beard that really hurt. That's why they got rid of them. Qualifications, Pat, just listening to the radio. It actually came up this week on a competitor program. Right, that'll do. Round of applause for Pat. There are no competitive programs, mate. There are just other programs less popular. That's it from me for another day. We will do it again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you'll hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very.