Why is it called a 'nuclear football'?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Good afternoon. It's four minutes after twelve and you are indeed listening to mystery hour with me, James O'Brien. This might be the last mystery hour that I present before I actually get my hands on the imminent mystery hour board game which should be in shops for Christmas. I think I'm going to see a copy of it or I'm gonna get. Get a. Get a version. Get a. What's the word? What do you talk about? It's a copy of a book. What's a board game? What do you say? I'm just gonna get one. I think I'm gonna get one tomorrow. Or possibly more. Anyway, hold onto your hats. The excitement. The excitement might be. No, it's not a prototype. It's the real thing. I'm getting one. I'm getting one tomorrow. I think. I'll let you know anyway. I bet you can't wait. I digress slightly because we're back to the original and the best. The radio version zero. 345-606-0973 it's a number you need if you have a mystery that needs solving, a question that needs answering, a boil, an intellectual boil that needs lancing. And of course, if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then you know what to do. I think we'll just crack on today. We didn't manage to do one last week, quite rightly, given the news agenda at the time, but it means that there'll be something of a log jam. Shortage is never a problem on this radio program, not in the context of callers. Sometimes there's a shortage of coherent answers to the questions that we ask. But never during mystery. Five minutes after twelve is a time. Should we crack straight on? Simon is in Icaria in Greece. Oh, lucky man. Hello. Hello, James. How you doing, mate? Calimera. Calimera tsikanis ola kala tsiketsi. Very strong question. It's a question. Of course. It's the beginning of the show. I just want to say I love it. Goodbye. Okay. You probably like you're going to think this is a stupid question, but my question is this water is transparent, right? So you can see through it. So my question is why when you put clothes into water, they go darker or into the washing machine or into a bowl or whatever, why do they go dark and then when they dry out, they go back to their original color? I think it's a good question. If you don't mention that water is transparent. Right. I just. I can see why you've brought that into the mix, but maybe I'm wrong, actually. So why do cloth the idea that if you put something in, something transparent? Because it's not. Transparency isn't the only quality of water, is it? It's also. Forgive me, it's also wet. And it's the wetness of water that describes. Yeah, I think so. I think so. All right. You're right. So why do clothes go dark when you put them in water? If we can answer that question, then we're over the line, aren't we? Exactly. That's fantastic. Cool. And listen, I'll have a glass of wine and a souvlaki for you this evening. Okay? Come on, man. How come you're there? What's the story? I've been coming back and forwards to here for a few years. It's a wonderful place. I don't know if you know. It's near Samos, isn't it? I've never been. It's one of. It's one of the five places on earth where people live longer than anywhere else, apparently. I can believe it. I can believe. So. Anacresi and a crassy cock, you know, and a souvlaki. Paracolo. Mekotopolo. Cinema kalamaki. Kalamaki, of course. Oh, you lucky man. You've really. You've dumbed me now. I'm going. I'm off. Seriously. First time in years that we haven't got to Greece since the. Since the pandemic started. And goodness me, I miss it. Thank you, sire. Faristopoli, Simon Callotaxidi. Rachel is in Malmesbury in Wiltshire. Rachel, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. So I'm a little bit starstruck. I've never spoken to anyone on the radio, and I'm speaking to you. Oh, well, you've started at the bottom. The only way is up. Now, play your cards right, you might talk to Nick Ferrari one day. Carry on. Okay, so my question was one that was asked to me by my seven year old yesterday. Yes. She said, why don't other animals cry? But some do, don't they? But do they have tears that come out like a crocodile? Crocodiles crying. Not just whimpering, like a little puppy whimpering because it's left alone. Monkeys. One thinks Simeon's monkeys. I don't know. I mean. So, I mean, it's one of those double questions. It's actually. Do other creatures cry? And then, if not, why not? Tear ducts. Lacrimal ducts. Okay. I like that a lot. And what's her seven year old's name? You don't have to tell me if you don't want to. Rosie. Rosie. We shall try and get an answer for Rosie. Thank you, Rosie. They suggested, my older daughter suggested that I should ask you. Oh wow, that's fantastic. Look, that's marketing, that is, that's, that's, that, I mean that's actually quite scary. That's me getting in there. Really weird. They'll be asking for board games now for Christmas, won't they? This is, this is the infernal nature of marketing. You've turned them. What was the older one's name? Sorry? Grace. Grace. Grace and Rosie. What lovely names. Well, thank you Grace, and we'll do our best for Rosie. And thank you very much. Thank you, Rachel. Also star struck. Don't be so ridiculous. Nine minutes after twelve is the time Danny is in. Worthing. Danny, question or answer? It's question please, James, carry on. A few weeks ago I woke up from my daily routine. If I was going downstairs to my small downstairs toilet. Oh yeah, thank you. As we do. When I was in there, I noticed a huge spider. Oh, it was near my son's birthday. I took a birthday card and a pint glass and I trapped it and I threw it outside. Unfortunately in doing so, it lost a leg down the road. It went down the drain. I watched it run away. I went indoors, thought no more of it. A couple of days later he's back missing a leg. So it's the same spider. I know it's the same spider. The kids have started calling him Stanley. Same pint glass, another card, get rid of him. This time I put on the other side of the road and he goes up silver birch tree. I come back into my house, a few days later he's back again. Why they call him Stanley if it's not inappropriate? We had a cat called Stanley. Oh, it's nothing to do with him only having seven legs. I thought there was a gag there I wasn't getting. I can't think of anything that's only got seven legs. Really. But no. Okay, so Stanley, the spider that lives near me. Stanley. So Stanley, I mean, it is the absence of the leg that is the most identifying feature here. Yeah. I've done him outside the front of the house, then I did him over the road and he went up the silver birch tree. Then I did him a few doors down, about three doors down, and he still came back. And does he return to the downstairs Lou. As of right now? Yeah, he's out and about somewhere. I'm expecting him any day. When I go down in the morning, I'm going to sit down and stare at me and it's the downstairs Lou, always. It's not just you. Find him somewhere else in the house? No, I've got to keep the window open. A jar. And I know it's winter and spiders coming, but this is the same one, so. Well, isn't that interesting? It's not. Are they able to be homing? It's not a question about their homing ability because I know they've got homing ability because it's him. Well, we know that Stanley has got it. Stanley. I mean, you know, there's two possible questions, too. The first is, is Stanley special? Have you made a discovery that could be your. I mean, they might name the species after you or something like that. Or if he is, I'll keep him next time. The other. The other question would be, how do spiders find their way home? That's. That's really. That's the one you're leaning towards rather than the. Rather than that. Have I found a unique spider? Yeah. Yeah, I used to keep tarantulas a long time ago. Oh, did you? I did, just as a kid and I. My parents probably, but. Okay, so, I mean. Yeah, okay, well, so, you know, we need someone who's got even more enthusiasm, for matter spider than you have. So how does spiders find their way back after they've been removed quite far away from. From where they were. Where they were found, and also why, perhaps that's. And that's an amazing. I mean, obviously, neither Danny nor I are encouraging you to remove the leg from a spider, but it's hard to think of a more reliable identification. Not foolproof, of course, because there could be other spiders in Worthing that have lost a leg and ended up in Danny's house. But I think we'll take his peer reviewed evidence at face value. How do they get back? Zero. 345-606-0973 we're staying in Worthing so we can test that theory. Matt is also in Worthing. You haven't seen any seven legged spiders lately, have you? Hi, James. No, I haven't, but it reminds me of the old joke, what do you call a spider with seven legs? Stanley. Oh, no. I was really praying you weren't going to go there. But you went there. You got to love mystery. It's almost as if all the standards I work hard to sustain for the other 14 hours of the week goes straight out the window the minute it strikes twelve on a Thursday. Question or answer, Matt? Yeah, so there's a bit of synchronicity with this question, James. I had this question in mind and I had the radio down as I turned the volume up. You were talking about Han Solo and cryogenics suspension. Yeah, yeah. Although he was actually, let me get this right. He was frozen in carbonite. Right. But that's by the by. Yeah, I mean, yeah. So anyway, the question is, you can pay a company to put you in cryogenic suspension when you die with the hope of being revived in the future. My question is, what's the time limit on that? Because assuming, you know, can you pay like for 5000 years or a thousand years? I mean, you're assuming the company's still going to be around to. Yeah, no, I've got all those variables notwithstanding. Is there. If you've got the money, is there a limit on how exactly? I mean, who'd check as well, but that's one of the variables that's not withstanding, isn't it? Yeah. And it's not like you can keep the receipt, is it? Or anything like that. I mean, so why do you want to know what's. What's on your mind? Well, it just. It was just something that crossed my mind. I don't know, really. It was just. You used to talk about it more when we. I don't know how old you are, but when we were kids, we talked about this kind of thing. Wasn't Walt Disney was reputed to have been. It was probably an urban myth. But we used to talk about it more oddly than we do now, I think. Yeah. I mean, does it. I mean, I don't know if it even exists. I mean, do people still do it or is it. You're only allowed one question? So what is that? If you've got. If you've got unlimited funds, can you get yourself cryogenically frozen for unlimited amounts indefinitely, with the actual hope that in the future you could still be revived? Would you do it? I wouldn't do it. None of the people you love would be around when you came back. What's the point of coming back if you can't? The kind of the way things are at the moment. I wouldn't mind giving it a go. I just haven't like a hibernation period. Working on the principle. Yeah. It's quite a low threshold, that, for wanting to suspend your existence. But I haven't got much money, though, James. I can only afford a couple of months, probably. Should we have a whip round? Volunteers to get frozen to conduct a live radio experiment? We're probably breaking all sorts of rules. I'll see what I can do. Matt, many thanks. No, thank you. Big, big shout out to Worthing today. That's two quite young sounding fellas. I thought there was an age. I thought you had to be over 80 before you were allowed to move to Worthing. Shows what I know. 1215 is the time. Is there a limit on how long you can be cryogenically frozen? For respect to Dan in Exmouth and a few others. But Dan got in there first. The reason that Stanley the spider is coming, he's obviously looking for his leg. That's why he keeps coming back. The poor, poor old spider. How do spiders find their way back from where they have been so rudely evicted? Do other creatures cry? And why do clothes go dark when they are wet? That's quite a nice selection, actually. Time to get some answers up and some more questions after this mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 producer took a call from someone in particular. I've just done a cursory google and I found the answer to the no I should have mentioned. This is what happens when I skip the rubric at the top of the hour. You're not allowed to look anything up, obviously. It's almost quite sweet to think that the feature's been running for over a decade, I think now, and the idea that it's never occurred to us before that people might be able to google things. The whole point of mister hour, and indeed of the forthcoming board game, is it's a celebration of knowledge. So you need to know you're not allowed to look anything up. It's a sort of nostalgic nod to the days where you really needed to remember stuff to get by. You couldn't just take the phone out of your pocket and have the sum total of all human knowledge at your fingertips in a nanosecond. So, not to sound ungrateful, but do not waste your time and ours by ringing into, you must know. That's why I say, what are your qualifications? You see, and qualifications will be our way of establishing whether or not. Not that anyone ever really tries to swing the lead. But that's how we know how you know what you know. And the qualifications don't have to be particularly prestigious. You don't have to say, oh, I've got a PhD in applied mathematics. You can see, I saw it on the telly last night and even in slightly more embarrassing circumstances. I heard it on mystery hour a couple of years ago. But you're so old and doddery now, O'Brien, that you've forgotten and I haven't. So, questions in search of answers. How long can you be cryogenically frozen for? Is there a limit? How do spiders find their way back? Do other creatures cry? And why do clothes go dark when they are wet? Jake's in Tufnell Park. Jake. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Okay. It's a bit of advice, actually. Life experience advice. Are you offering it or seeking it? I'm very desperately seeking it. Okay. Well, you've come to the right place. I should hope so. Carry on. I am one morning into a five day bender. Good Lord. I am struggling with how I'm going to do it with. Do I mix drinks? Do I stay on one drink per night? The alcohol levels. I am just this morning it was only beer. Last night. I have a headache like you can't imagine. Are you on a stag? No, quite the opposite. I'm on a work conference, which I think probably not the greatest thing in the world to do. But you're not in Manchester, are you? Everyone else has gone home. No, I'm not in Manchester. I wouldn't associate with the Tory scum at that. Well, that's a little unkind. But mystery house normally face safe territory. But you said that. Not me, you and Angela Rayner. So you want to know how you can continue drinking without. And I'm not looking for any kind of sanctimonious. You should be confident in yourself. You're not going to get that from me. No, don't you worry. Am I best placed mixing smaller amounts or just going large on one big type of alcohol? Don't mix. As a general rule, if it's the hangover that you're worried about, mixing is a really, really bad idea. I was in an eight this morning off not mixing, and I've already taken two unsolicited trips to the bathroom, so. I'm a guy. Yeah. I mean, there is. I mean, you cannot consume a significant amount of alcohol without any negative side effects. But do you think different types of alcohol, different effects? Yes, most definitely they do. For example, you'll find this very difficult to believe. I become quite aggressive when I drink. Stellar Artois, would you believe? And normally, of course, such a peaceable, mild mannered kind of fella. What were you drinking last night? This could be a whole hour. This topic tell her aunt. Were you ready? Well, that's your first mistake, because, you know, you're much better off with a craft beer or, God, I sound older. You know, something a little less fruity, processed, strong. My theory on different alcohols making you act differently is that it's the situation you're in. So obviously, when you're having a beer, it's more kind of laddie in the pub, when you're drinking wine, it's more kind of with dinner. Civilized? Yes. And I think you become the alcohol that you're drinking rather than anything else. I'm not sure you've gone for a bit chicken and egg on this white wine and red wine will affect you differently, so it doesn't quite work. The white. White wine is actually probably my weakest tipple. I'd lose sensibilities drinking white wine. I don't lose drinking red wine, even though the alcohol quantities might be the same. I mean, the real answer to your question is, I know this is a bit boring, but is to have a glass of water in between each tipple, not to mix, and probably to steer away from strong continental lager, which, you know, when I was your age, it was nicknamed wife beater, which is neither funny nor pertinent, but possibly something worth taking on board because it brings out a violent side in people. And so someone's just tweeted exactly that. Brian, well done, mate. Good spot. So that would be my advice. Go for a craft beer. Make it last. Nothing higher than about 3.54%. And a glass of water in between. And a glass of water in between. I don't know that that counts as a mystery. Our question, really. Well, I mean, it's more sort of uncle James speaks to the nation territory, this. Jake. I just. I think your sagacious advice is needed worldwide. Well, I wonder if we dare experiment with that format next week, perhaps, and just sort of any quite like, more of an agony uncle role that I'm playing here. It's going to end in tears. Probably yours, Jake. Take care. And I hope none of your employers are listening to your. But that obviously it is one of those works trips that demands a certain mode of behavior. Okay. Actually, there is a question there. Does mixing your drinks make you more drunk than not mixing your drinks? And if so, why? I think it does. So why does mixing your drinks make you more drunk than not mixing your drinks? Zero. 345-606-0973 Wayne's embassy. Wayne? Oh, hello. Hello. Question or answer? Here we go. It's an answer. It's an answer to a question I've already answered. In fact, it was my debut on mystery hour. Was it really? Yes. Why do things get darker when they're wet? Question. Was that your debut on the program or just my Toby on mystery hour? No. So we were. We'd already met by this point. Yeah. Right. Carry on. Yeah. So basically what it is called internal reflection. And how I know this was it used to irritate me back in about eight years ago. I looked it up to find out why yes. Was happening. Why do clothes go dark when they're wet? Yeah. So think about liquids have a reflective surface. Yeah. When you intertwine that reflective surface into the fabrics of a fabric or jumper. Plaster. Yeah, plaster. Oh, you mean plaster on the wall? Yes. Okay. Yes. So what happens is where that reflective surface is introduced in between, it reflects some of the light back in on itself, making it appear darker. But it's not actually darker. Some of the light that we would normally see is reflected back, so you don't see it making the. Giving the illusion of it being darker. So. Same. When you plaster a wall, it gets lighter as it dries because the water is evaporating from the plaster and therefore the light is being reflected differently. Yeah, that's really good. It better be blooming good, because I got a round of applause for it when I first get all previous. All right, seriously, you know me, I'm mercurial. I can change my mind in a. In a heartbeat and it's my show and there's nothing you can do about it. And I know your memory's not up to scratch as it used to be. Professor Howe also answered the cryogenic answer question. Right, okay, so what is this then, Wayne? This is like take the Mickey out of the hole of mystery hour. Is it? Is that the invitation that I issued without realizing? Did I? I'm out here trying to insulate Britain, right? And I thought, hang on a minute, I've got. I'm not listening. Wayne, I don't know how to break this to you, but you're the past. People like Jake ringing me up for drinking advice, they're the future. See, I play a different role now. I play a different role to my listeners from the one that I played when you started ringing the program. Now I'm looked upon more of a Gandalf figure, I think, than. Yeah, no, I am. Applause to Wayne, please. 27 minutes after twelve. We're being bombarded with questions, which means we're not getting enough answers on the board, which is probably why we let Wayne on but that was a good answer, actually. So we've done the water question. That'll be winging its way all the way to Icaria. And if you're really good on your classics or your greek knowledge, you'll know why winging its way to Icaria was a particularly winning turn of phrase. Winging its way to Icaria? Yeah, because that's where Icarus is supposed to have fallen out of the sky and come a cropper. Do any creatures other than humans cry? How do spiders find their way home, so to speak? Is there a limit on how long you can be cryogenically frozen for? And why does mixing alcoholic drinks have a slightly more intoxicating effect than sticking to one tipple? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. David's in Ilford. David, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please, carry on. David. Right. I'm just wondering, you know the suitcase that's carried by a military officer that accompanies the US president wherever they go? I'm just wondering why it's called the nuclear football. I know that it's got something inside which has got some think he can access the codes. But why is it called a football? Is it because you launch it? Oh, I see. I don't know. I'm just thinking. I don't know. It's got. It's got quite. It's a metal suitcase, isn't it? Yeah. Launch codes and books and stuff like that. Yeah. I just wondered whether it was. You know, it gets passed around to different officers. Oh, yeah. It could be that. Could be that. Actually, I'm underwater. I wonder, I don't know, passing it like a football or launching it like a. Like a. Like a quarterback. No, my colleagues are shaking my head at my suggestion and nodding their heads at yours, which is. It's quite a disloyal hour this week on Miss Rod. I'm feeling a little bit unloved. Apart from old Jake. Oh, no. It was probably still drunk. He was probably still. I love you too, David. Thank you, mate. Thank you. Why is it called the football? Yeah. There's no obvious reason, but I suspect you might have just stumbled on the answer. We'll wait until we go definitive and possibly share the round of applause. Yeah. Thank you. Top man. Thank you. David. Mind how you go. It's 12:30 is the time you are listening to mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three phone lines free if you've got answers to any of the questions that are currently on the board. The number you need is zero 345-606-0973 and glancing at said board. We've already heard from Wayne in Basildon. More mystery hour royalty on the way. Professor Hal is on the line after Amelia Cox brings you the latest headline. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 34 is the time. Mystery hour continues. Professor Hal is on the line. They've changed your name on the switchboard, Hal. Changed it from what? To what? They've dropped the professor. And now you're nearly Hal. I don't know. Have you been ringing other programs again? Sad. Oh, I'm sorry. You've been seeing other presenters again, haven't you? It was just. It was Nick. The ones I had. No, Nick riled me up about universities sitting around during lockdown and I couldn't let it go on. And did you? Well, anyway, I'm going to put the professor back. Because you'll always be Professor Hal to me. Oh, thank you. Well, you gave me my professorship, didn't you? I mentioned in my professorial board that I was on mystery. I did play a part, I believe, in your elevation to the loftiest echelons of academe. But, you know, it's one of the many side effects of mystery hour over the years. What are you here? Which question are you going to answer? I can't. Well, it's such a delightful question. It's the one about the kindly, fatherly advice you gave to the young man about alcohol. Yes. Funny enough, last year I went on radio talking about this and I wrote an article and it actually got syndicated to Russia. Really? Yeah. It was all over the place. It was in the Daily Mail. Professor tells you how to get drunk more efficiently at Christmas. It's on a website called the conversation. It's free. It's a public access website if anyone wants to read more about it. But anyway, it's not quite as simple as it might be. Drinks do make a difference now. Generally, the darker the drink, the more congeners you have, and they are chemical clutter that irritate the brain. So, funny enough, is that right? Yes, if you want to drink spirits and not have a hangover. I'm not saying this is the way forward, but. No, of course. And listen, we are having a slightly light hearted conversation about alcohol. But nobody, not Jake, not Hal, not me, nobody is, anyway, underestimating the negative impacts and the dangers of irresponsible relationships with alcohol. So I'm not being Poe faced when I say that it's important to recognise that some people, without a doubt. Yeah, absolutely. Vodka is russian for water, because it's mainly water. With alcohol, there are very few congeners. So you get drunk, but you don't have that chemical clutter to irritate you. On the other hand, whiskey, all that brown colour is because of all the various organic chemicals, some of which leach out from the barrel and they do irritate the brain. Red wine has phenyl ethylamine in it, which is a vasoconstrictor. So that particular throbbing hangover you have with red wine is caused by that thing. In particular, mixing drinks does make a difference, because very, very strong drinks can inhibit their own absorption. You know, when you drink a spirit and you get that burning feeling in your stomach, your stomach just throws its hands up. I can't deal with this. And so if you drink whiskey and then drink, for example, lager on top of it, it dilutes the whiskey enough so it starts getting absorbed. So the optimum way, and I use that, in inverted commas, to get drunk, is fortified wine, like sherry, which is about 25%, because it's very strong, but it's not strong enough to inhibit its own absorption. And in Sweden, so it gets straight into your bloodstream, so to speak. Yeah. In Sweden, some of the teenagers, what they do is they drink their home brewed spirits before they go out to the clubs, where it's very expensive to drink, and they just drink water, and that dilutes the contents of their stomach. So it starts being absorbed. So it does make a difference. It's a 17 and a half percent thunderbird, which was when I was a very, very young person, that was the accelerated drink of choice. And, I mean, flavor, of course, is also part of the coloring as well. So, malt whiskies, they may not be as friendly as vodkas, but people drink them for the tastes and the flavors and the other elements of it. What about mixing? The clincher is, does mixing your drinks have a deleterious effect? Yes, it does. Because if it's a strong drink, mixed with a weak drink, it comes a semi strong drink which doesn't inhibit its own uptake. And, I mean, the interesting thing is, whenever mix grain and grape is quite a well known, I think that's it's the right. It's like the correlation versus causation. It happens to follow the rule, but it's for a different reason. But also very interesting thing, is one of the other sort of side effects. And I hope no one's having their lunch in right now is, of course, vomiting, and that's caused by the chemosensory trigger zone. And that works to really, really find tolerances because the first stage breakdown product of alcohol is called acetaldehyde, and that's an emetic. It makes you want to throw up. And the chemosensory trigger zone in the postrema is so finely tuned. We've all been there. 1 minute you're singing, thinking you're very witty, and then you think, oh, I know exactly what's going to happen in about 15 seconds. I'm going to Chunda. Yeah, because the postreamer said, enough. Get rid of it right now. Yeah. And also don't sing. Yes, perhaps that finally tuned. Yes. And you're not. And you're not funny as you think. No, not you, the prostrate. Yes, of course. No, you are very funny. I do my best. So are you. I think that's nailed it, then. So, Jake, there you go, mate. That's four more days to go. You could almost do each day as a different experiment and then report back to Professor Halley, get on your PhD, of course, couldn't he, with that level of research, that level of epidemiology, devotion to his craft. Yes, clearly something you share qualifications. I'm very lucky to be the professor of public understanding at the University of Brighton. Fantastic. Professor, how many thanks indeed. A round of applause for you. We gave Wayne a round of applause, didn't we? Yeah. Thank you. Jason's in Southampton. Jason, question or answer? It's a question for Uncle James. Carry on. And I think you might have to do some sort of specialist podcast. Now, why is milk stout called milk stout? Ah, now, does it not, I mean, in the same way that you get like a starter with, with bread, does it not have to? It's got milkshake, it's got lactose in it. I'm going to take a round of applause for this one. Right, okay. Well, I don't know. Well, not yet, Mikey. Hang on. He's got. Flipping out. He's a guy's trigger finger. So, you know. So usually with beer, it'd be a yeast or something like that. No, it's the sugar. So I don't know what sugar would be in hops. Would it be sucrose? Well, I don't know, but a milk. A milk stout would have lactose in it. It's a dark beer flavored with lactose. Is it taking the lactose and the milk and do they not put the hops and stuff in it, then? No, because lactose doesn't react with yeast, so you get a sweetness to a milk stout that you wouldn't get if they used other sugars, because the other sugars would turn to alcohol and the lactose stays as lactose, so you get a sweetness to a milk stout. I'm not a fan of milk stout, I've got to be honest with you. Well, I've never tried it because the name puts me off. Oh, well, it's. Imagine a Guinness with a bit more sweetness to it. Right, okay. I don't know whether that tickles your fancy or not. Sounds quite nice. Now, I've described it like that, but the answer is lactose. Why is it called milk stout? Because it's got lactose in it. So if I've got anything else wrong, that doesn't matter, because that bit is right and I get my round of applause. Okay, no problem at all. Yeah, no, you're very welcome. Thank you very much, Jason. I can feel a bit of. A bit more. It feels like we've stumbled across an area that deserves more than a mere segment of mystery. I don't know. We shall see. Alice is in Sydenham. Alice, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Are crows intelligent? Well, compared to who? Dominic Robb. Yes. I mean, birds. Bird. Are they intelligent in any way? Because there's one that keeps literally following me in my life. Really? I mean, how far afield do you travel with the crow in? No, no, I was in the garden feeling very lonely one day. Painting. Painting? Like a painting that I've never done before. Yeah. And the crow comes up and I say, are you my only friend? I said sadly. And since that day, he even comes onto my car when I come home. Really? And I've always been scared of crows because of the birds film. Alfred Hitchcock, I watched many years ago. Yes. No, they are quite ominous birds, aren't they? But this one doesn't sound ominous at all. Sounds right. I even painted his wings slightly with my paintbrush. And I know it's the same crow you've tagged it, sort of just a bit of green. I'd rather have a bit of paint than have one of my legs pulled off. Which is how our friend in Worthing identifies as spider. Stanley, isn't it? Have you got. Has the crow got a name? Not really. Not yet. Colin. If I give him food, he doesn't eat it. So he's not after anything. You might be giving him the wrong sort. What sort of things are you offering him? Well, even if I put bread on our little rooftop there that. He always comes. He's a crow. He wants meat. Oh, does he? Oh, dear. Yeah, get him a pepperoni. No, that'd be a bit spicy. Just get him a bit of chicken breast or something like that. Oh, do they eat meat? I had no idea. Of course they did. They're carrion. They eat carrion, don't they? Crows? They're like dead animals. Oh, dear. I've got no idea. Humans. I wouldn't worry about it. So. So our crows. I've got a feeling crows are particularly clever. Actually, I. There's a. I think it's. Is it by. I've just read a book by. What's the chops? Anne Cleaves, who writes the vera books. Yeah. And the crow trap, or something like that. Or the crow. To catch a crow, you have to use a certain. They use tools as well, Julie. Oh, I'm not supposed to read. Oh, my gosh. But they do know. Crows are clever. But I don't know who. What you would accept as a definitive answer. A sort of ornithologist who can give us a. I mean, would they understand our language? That's highly unlikely. I don't know. But unlikely that the crow speaks English is not that he speaks it. But would you understood. No, I mean, speaks or understands English. Unlikely. Wouldn't you thought? I mean, unless, like Stanley the spider, you have stumbled across a unique breakout species. My whole family's getting a bit thing about it, like historical moment of evolution. Um, they say, your crows there again, and I look out the window and he's in the front of my front door, really close. Maybe he picked up on something. He picked up on some sort of emotional kind of moment. I wouldn't have understood your language. I don't believe. No, no. But he might have detected a certain, I don't know, amazing standard, actually. You should write. Oh, he liked my painting. Maybe. Well, meal worms. Mealworms will go down. Well, get some meal worms from the pet shop and then you can call him Mike. Scared of it. You can call him. Don't be scared of it. Call him Mike. Mike Crow. Try and get you an answer. Our crow's clever. Thank you very much, Alice. Keep painting. Thank you. Stay safe. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer that, we've got a few questions waiting. I need more answers. I need crows. I've done the alcohol cryogenically. Spiders. We should be able to do spiders. How do spiders find their way home? I'm sure other creatures cry, don't they? Do other creatures shed tears? Zero. 345-606-0973 I'm not optimistic about getting an answer to the cryogenically frozen question because I don't know who would know it and you're not allowed to look stuff up. Mixing drinks knocked out of the park by Professor Howe. Wet clothes knocked out of the park by Wayne in Basildon. And clever crows on the list as well. Time now is 1245, mystery hour, with James O'Brien. This is Lbc 1249 is the time. Mystery hour continues. Kemsley is in Maidstone. Kemsley, question or answer? Good afternoon, mate. Carry on. So, the answer for the nuclear football, it's called the football because originally the bag was a small brown leather case, but then they also named an operation, like a war plan. It was called Operation Dropkick, because the football need the football to do the dropkick. Really? Yeah. So it looked like a football and that. So then it goes. It's just the fact it was a brown. You know, a brown leather case. Well, it would have looked a bit like a football. Brown leather case. Qualifications. So I actually met the one of the military age that carries the football a few months ago. How come? I met Jill Biden was a us patron for an expedition that I'd done. Yeah. And then when they came over for the g six summit, well, a couple has got a phone call to say, can we go meet them up at Heathrow? And then while they flew off to Windsor Castle, we just sat there having a chat with some of the guys and one of them happened to be the military aide. Just back up a bit. What expedition were you on? So, a military charity called walking with the wounded. Yeah. We've done a thousand mile walk to raise awareness and funds for veteran mental health. Oh, my. Yeah. Prince Harry was our UK patron and Jill was our us patron. Well, that's just incredible. Yeah. And did you ask about the nuclear football or. I did, yeah. There's no button. It's just a little. Almost like a chinese takeaway. It's just got some codes and different places that they can fire on and rules of engagement and stuff like that. And you met. Did you meet the president or did you just meet the first lady? Well, don't say it like that, Kemsley. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've been a journalist for 20 odd years. I've never met a pro, never even got close to a president of the United States of America. You've got to try harder, mate. Well, clearly what you do is worth a hell of a lot more than what I do every day. I'm looking at a picture of you with Prince Harry now. So you did so. Oh, yeah, yeah. I mean, walking with the wounded walk of America is. That's amazing. And how much did you raise? I don't actually know. I mean, a lot of it's corporate stuff, so, I mean, there's. There's a lot of money into it. But they've got an expedition starting in about three days time, which was the walk of Oman, but they're actually doing it in the UK now. But if people can check that out, that'd be amazing. I'll tweet something and get people to make a. To make a donation. Look at you. That would be amazing. Prince Harry. Well, I'm lost for words. And I tell you what you get. So, I mean, how long ago was this when they were here down in Cornwall? Was it for that meeting? Yeah. So they flew up from Cornwall. We met him at Heathrow. They flew off to Windsor. So that's when we sat there chatting with the other meeting at Heathrow? Yeah. Mate, I'm gobsmacked. How often do you listen to the program? Most days. You know what the biggest award I can give a caller is? I do, but I don't think I deserve that. I don't carry the bag. You just met the bloke that carries the bag. Last time it was in this country, you. Did you see it? Say yes. Yes. Yeah, you saw it. Last time it was in this country, you saw it, man. Oh, fair enough. Army. I'll take it all day long. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Amaranth, of course. There we go. Thank you very much, Kevsey. That's one of my all time favorites. That really is absolutely incredible. What a time. Next week I'll phone him with a question that's also related to it. Okay. Yeah. We'll try and look out for your call and give you a little bit of preferential treatment as a holder of a rayliota. You know, it's like the vip club on the great british radio. So, Kemsley, Mai. There you go, mate. What a lovely treat. Have a good day. And you. Thank you so much. Lewis is in healing. Lewis, question or answer? Answer. James. Spiders. Carry on. Follow that. Yeah, I can't follow those qualifications. Incredible. So with spiders, there are some spiders that can navigate. So could navigate back to his house in theory, but those are very advanced spiders. Mainly jumping spiders. There's a particular type which has the latin name porsche. I can't remember the whole name. Okay, that's debatably the most intelligent one, it hunts other spiders. So he's accidentally stumbled across one of the cleverest spiders known to man down in worthing. So from the description he gave, it sounds like a house spider. Yeah, and those are not advanced spiders, as we would call them. Well, how does he. How's that one finding its way? They have very poor eyesight, those ones. They're very small eyes, unlike jumping spiders, have very big ones. So these ones generally only respond to external stimuli. Right. So the only. So it's a theory. I can't. I can't say. It's a definite an answer. So what the logic would say is if it's responding to external stimuli, there must be something attracting him to the house. And because it's a. It's almost certainly a male spider, because they're the ones who go out looking, because they're normally ambush predators who stay in a little hole, the males obviously go out to find mates. So logically, the only thing that could be attracting him so much to that house is lots of female spiders. Really? That's the only logical answer that I can think because like I said, it can only respond to external stimuli and it doesn't have eyesight. They don't raise families then? Spiders? No, they just lay lots of eggs. The women do. Yeah, the female. Female spiders. Yeah. And they occasionally eat the males when they're out looking for love. Climbing. Um. So you think that there is probably some sort of harem going on down in whirling? A spider harem? I seem so at his house. Qualifications. So. I used to work in an aquarium when I was a teenager with lots of tarantulas. But I actually saw most of this on a documentary by Sir David Attenborough. And if they haven't got eyes, he's. What is he picking up pheromones or something like that? Yeah, it'd be pheromones. So there must be more female spiders in that room or near that lavatory than there are in any of the other surrounding areas. Otherwise he'd be in there like Flynn with his seven leg. Well, the thing is, they're normally. Because, like I said, they're ambush predators. They're normally in the house the whole time anyway. You just don't know because they stay away. Yeah. No, okay, I like that. It's a round of applause all day long. Good lord, I love this. In the home straight. Everything gets slightly surreal. Maria is in Orpington. Maria, question or answer? Answer. Carry on to the prose. Crows. Yes. So the crows, they are highly intelligent and they're part of the Corbett family and all the corvids are really intelligent. I mean, you can't just say that, can you? I mean, how do you know? What are your qualifications? Well, I'm an artist and I've been doing lots of paintings of crows and ravens, primarily ravens. I'm also writing a children's book, and it's based upon the crows at the Tower or the Ravens at the Tower of London. But none of this proves they're clever, though. No, but I've done a lot of research into it. So because I was writing the book and because I was painting a series of paintings, I had to learn the traits of each of the ravens and crows obviously are in the same family and they. I mean, they're very, very. I think they're one of the most intelligent birds and it might be to do with the size of their brain or just natural selection. Corvids are the clever. Yeah, you're absolutely right. They are the most clever. And they can use tools, they can mimic human speech, they can work out puzzles. If you say they can mimic human speech, then the lady that rang in with the question is going to go back to thinking that they can understand English. No, absolutely not. In your children's book, are they going to be able to talk? Are you going to have talking? No. That's bold. What? Yeah. No, no, no. So I'm trying to keep sort of like their actual traits. I've got a shot. I don't know why I'm settling down for a proper chat, but Sheila's just walked in and I've got at least one more question to answer on the board. So what's the book going to be called? We'll look out for it. Well, it's. I think it's going to be called the ravens at the tower, but I'm not entirely sure. Well, keep us posted, Maria. Round of applause. A lovely answer. Craig's in Middlesbrough. Craig, bring it on. Middlesbrough. In North Yorkshire, it says here, honestly, heads are going to roll. Question or answer, Craig? It's an answer. James, carry on the issue. Do any of it, does any of a creature apart from humans, cry? Yes. From my experience, it's a bit of a yes and no answer. In fact, it tends to be that, yes, they can, but it's not because they're upset or with any empathy. Why is it? It's generally due to, like a physical. Usually like an illness or some kind of like a weeping, as opposed. It's not an emotional response to something, it's a physiological phenomenon. Yeah. Without. Without getting too graphic. It almost be like a wound, for example. That's why I said weeping. Yeah. Actually, no great work qualifications. Not as elaborate as the guy who knows the president. Wasn't that amazing? Wasn't that amazing? That was just magical mystery. Our moments queuing up. What? Sorry, what did you say? We just once had a sick dog. That'll do. And his eye wet. Round of applause. There you go. I don't know if that's the question that Rosie was looking for or the answer that Rosie was looking for, but I think the full answer is they don't cry because they're sad, but water can come out of their eyes. Richards in Whitney. Last one on this question or answer. Got to be an answer. What is it? A answer to the cryogenics question. Yeah, go on. So it's a bit of a non question, because as far as our current scientific understanding goes, you can't be unfrozen. It's actually quite fascinating. The inventor of the microwave, actually, was. They invented the microwave. Can't do this now. I run out of time. They can't just kick us. Yeah, go, yeah. Quickly. To. Unto what? To defrost cryogenically frozen people. To defrost mice. Because they were looking into the cryogenic freezing and they found that you can actually freeze and refreeze mice. In fact, they did it multiple times. They unfroze them. They were fine. They froze them again. Unfroze them again. And they did it multiple times. But you can't do it any bigger than a mouse. So is there the surface area? You're brilliant. I wish we got you on earlier. I have a round of applause with my compliments. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. And the next voice you hear on LBC belongs to Sheila. Folks, I'm not buying the dogs don't cry thing. I'm sorry. Who are we to say they're not upset? Dogs can be upset when they miss their own. Have you ever seen a dog cry? No, but there you go, then. I don't spend a great deal of time with dogs. Now, back to the Sheila Fogarty program. I want to do 3 hours. Um, do dogs cry anyway?