Can dogs recognise themselves in a mirror?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, so that time already four minutes after twelve, is the time your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you tuned in for the first time today in response to the astonishing news regarding the listening figures to this program, then I should tell you that this is a very different hour from the other 14 that we do in the course of the week. For many people, it is by far the favourite hour, but it is very different from the. It's just a bit of fun, is what it is, and it's a bit silly. It's occasionally serious, but it's never less than delightful. That's a scientific fact. And what it does is it involves people ringing in, asking questions and then other people ringing in and answering them. But the questions can be about anything. They could be about science, they could be about football. I'd rather they weren't about motoring or roads. But, you know, as I mellow with every passing month, even that rule has been relaxed slightly. So there it is, that simple question of what do you want to know? You will have a little mystery bubbling away in the back of your brain. A who, a why, a what, a where, a when, even perhaps the occasional wherefore. And somebody else listening to this program. And this becomes more true every, every quarter, doesn't it? Somebody listening to this program will know the answer. And my job is to bring you together like the cilla black of knowledge. The number you need to join in is, as ever, zero 345-606-0973 if you are lucky enough to submit a correct answer that we accept as definitive. And when I ask for your qualifications, I don't need to see your certificates. I need only to know how you know what you know. Have you got that? I need to know how you know what you know. I think we've just stumbled across a new catchphrase, Keith. So you might have seen it on telly last night, you might even, because we have been doing this for so long now, we can't possibly be expected to guard against repetition. You might know the answer. You might know what you know because you've bought the mystery hour board game and played it. And that question actually was one of the ones that got selected for the. What's that you say, James? A mystery hour board game. Why, yes, fair listener, a mystery hour board game, no less. Soon to be available in all good shops. Well, not all good shops. It'd be a bit weird if they sold it in Gregg's, but you take my point. And of course, the best contributor, the best contribution to mystery hour will get a mystery out board game. Full terms and conditions can be seen at LBC dot co dot UK dot. I like that from Liz. If I'm the Cilla Black, this is the tinder of knowledge. I like it. It is indeed the tinder of knowledge putting. And speaking of dating apps, this is rather lovely from Em, who's in Oxfordshire. She takes me to say I'm an avid listener of the show and also a single lady. Whilst on a dating app, a potential suitor listed you in his likes section. I just had to share that with you. It gave me a smile. Well, it's giving me a smile as well, Em. I hope he wasn't, Keith. I hope you go on a date with him. Seriously, if he's a fan of this show, I mean, what's not to like? You've got so much in common already. No. Bit weird. We'll see. 1207 is the time. Um, quickly, before we get stuck into mischief. That was a little bit rum, wasn't it? This idea of Rishi Sunak describing it as a discount when it's a loan. I don't know semantically whether or not he's on thin ice or not, but he called it a discount. It's a loan, you have to pay it back. It's 200 quid. But anyway, now is not the time for such matters. Now is the time for questions and answers. If you. Anyway, you get a round of applause if it's a good answer and we think it's definitive, if your qualifications to answer a question are unbelievable, like, whoa. Can't believe you were listening when this question got asked. Then you might get a Ray Liotta, which is the highest accolade that. It's the highest accolade that can be offered anywhere on british radio, you know, never mind. Just on this show, John's in Bristol. John, what do you want to know? Question or answer? Question. James, I got your gay man, but for Christmas, thanks very much. God, who hates you? The question is yes. How can you age a tree without cutting it down to count the annual rings? Well, I mean, usually if you cut it down, you kill it. Yeah, usually. Use your noddle. I mean, if you know what breed the tree is, species the tree is, then you can measure it, can't you, like, put a tape measure around the trunk and get a rough. And get a fairly good idea of how old it is. There'd be averages, won't there? Now, don't you think? Well, miss. And it depends on the thickness of the bark. Like if it's a silver birch, there's hardly any bark. Yeah, exactly. So you just compare it to the silver birch. You compare it to the silver birch averages, not to the oak averages. You have different averages for each tree. That's why I say, first of all, identify your species, John. Right. So where'd you get the averages from? From the tree average place. The tree average place. Yes. Yes, that's the technical term, I believe. Office. The tree average office. The office of average tree sizes. Oats. Oats. It's called oats. The office of average tree size is oats. It's called. You've got to get your oats, John. Oh. Oh, no. I'm 70 odd. No, that's a thing of the past. It's on the list. I wouldn't be surprised if I'm slightly right. Obviously I made up bits of that answer, but I wouldn't be surprised if some of the bits that we stumbled across cross together. We're a little bit close to correct. All right, John, you take care not giggling. Ten minutes after twelve. How can you tell how old a tree is if you don't want to chop it down and count the rings? Adam's in Chessington. Adam, question or answer? Yeah, hi there, James. Question, please. It's probably a slight dig. Aim towards Andrew Bridge, if that's okay. Yeah, absolutely. But I'd like to know at what point in someone's family history can they lay claim to being indigenous to a particular country or region? So, I mean, I wonder if you can, because, you know, if you pick a sort of favorite bigot, you got. Farage has huguenot ancestors, doesn't he? His lot came over from France. Coming over here, speaking foreign on carriages. Absolutely. I think he's on record as referencing Brexit and indigenous Britons in the same sentence on more than one occasion. More than likely. But also bridging, of course. Was he indigenous to Ireland when he believed he was entitled to an irish passport by dint of being british? So what we're looking for a definition of when can you claim, given that nobody can, nobody, when they trace their ancestors back to source, would be from here. Everybody came out of Africa, didn't they, originally? So when do you become indigenous? It's a cheeky question, Adam, but I like it. Brilliant. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. If there is indeed an answer, it has to be a sort of widely accepted or a definitive answer. So, measuring trees and measuring indigenousness. You know, having a little moment today, obviously, given the news, but the. When I first. I'd never really heard this before. I had no idea how racist parts of the country were when I started doing this job. I'd led such a sheltered life. But it was a caller ringing in and talking about the indigenous tribes of northern Britain with a completely straight face. It was cross about, I don't know, children who were not from the indigenous tribes of northern Britain going to school or something, or people, the indigenous tribes of northern Britain. And I often wonder whether or not I should have been a bit more. I mean, I'd just laugh my head off at the idiot, the racist clown. But then you look at now, that kind of rhetoric is no longer confined to racist clowns ringing into radio stations. Arguably, it's very well represented in the highest echelons of the UK media, if not the uk political establishment. I don't know. That's what political correctness did, I suppose. It managed briefly, to keep that kind of toxicity in the fridge. And now it's out again. 1212 is the time. UV is in rugby. UV. Question or answer? Um, hello? Hello. Um, do. Wait. This is a question. Do onions make animal cr. Animals cry? Other animals. How old are you, Yuvie? Nine. Have you got any pets? No. No, I was just thinking we could do. We could do some experiments, couldn't we? If we had a cat or a dog and an onion, we could do a little experiment. Yeah. I've got COVID. That's why I'm not in school. I didn't even ask. I didn't. I did cross my mind. Yuvi, I'm not gonna lie, I did think, why isn't he at school? But you've got COVID. So how you feeling? You doing all right? Yeah. It was a bit cold. It's a bit achy. Is it? Or. It's boring, isn't it, being at home? Yes. And now your mum's made what I need to do a bit of my, um, homework. Yeah. You make sure you do your home. It's bad enough being stuck at home and now your mum's made you listen to this idiot on the radio. I'm so sorry. Feeling very sorry for you, Yuvie. It's outrageous. You right? We'll find out for you. Um. Do onions make any other animals cry? We need to find out. We need to find out fast. Yuvie. You look after yourself, mate. Wrap up warm. Keep the radio on in the background, at least until 01:00. Um, Helen is in Bowness, I think. Is it Bowness? That's right, yeah. Bowness bonus with an apostrophe. It is. Well, it's short for barristan nest, but it doesn't really fit on the road signs. Gosh. Well, you live and learn. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. So we live really close to a timber yard and also, like, a massive oil refinery. And I noticed that on the sign for the workers going into the car park at the timber yard, there's a sign that says all drivers must reverse into their spaces. And then when we drove past the oil refinery the other day, the car parks there, all the cars are reversed in as well. And so I thought it must be a reason. And, you know, they must be under the same rules. And then we, me and my husband, were just wondering, like, why do they have to reverse it? Is it so they can get out quickly if there's an issue? I don't know. Well, hang on a minute. Just. Just. Would you mind just waiting there a moment while I have a word with my colleague who's currently eating a doughnut? Would you believe a celebrate? How are we going to have a conversation, Alex, if you've got a bloody great doughnut in your gob, we need to have a crack. This hasn't become the most listened to show on LBC because we're all eating doughnuts while O'Brien is dancing around in the studio. Okay, this is. This is a motor in question. It's a cake, is it not? A. Don't. My apologies. Fake news. This is a motoring question, Alex. This is about parking spaces. No offense to you, Helen. This is about safety. I think it's possibly a safety question. I think it's a parking space question. We'll be doing cycle lanes on the show next. All right, now, I like. So is it? Yeah. So it might just be that it's a coincidence and that quite a lot of car parks are like that in order to ensure that you don't have accidents. Because reversing out of a parking space is a lot more likely to cause an accident than reversing into one, isn't it? You just don't normally see the sign, though. No, you don't, but that's why I think it might be a coincidence. We'll try and find out. All right, whereabouts. But whereabouts is Bowness? Bowness is just on the fourth. We're just a few miles down the road from Edinburgh. Oh, how lovely. Oh, how lovely. That is a beautiful part of the world, isn't it? It is nice. Why aren't you looking at the view instead of going around taking pictures of car park signs? I'm busy moving house. I'm currently stacking books on the new book cases. So, yeah, I'm inside. What joy. That's lovely that. It doesn't feel at home till you got your books on the shelves, does it? Well, no, exactly. Like a cocoon. Like a Hobbit's warren. Anyway, Helen, I will find out for you. What are these signs about in a timber yard? In an oil refinery, telling the workers there to make sure they reverse into their spots. Yeah. Don't readjust your sets. That really did get on. No offense to Helen. How's the cake? Is it all right? Yeah. Have I got one? No. 1216 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Questions in need of answers. How can you age a tree without chopping it down and counting the rings? What's the definition of indigenous? How long do you have to be here? How many generations does your family have to be in a place before you can describe yourself as indigenous? Normally, while being racist about other people. But I'm sure there are other deployments of the word available as well. Do onions make any other animals cry? Or their eyes water? And why does the oil refinery and the timber yard near Helen in Scotland insist that the workers reverse into their parking spots? Dan's in Hereford. Dan, question or answer? How are you, James? I'm okay. It's a question, actually. It's a question. Good man. So there was one similar to this not long ago. It was about whether. What would happen if a sitting prime minister lost their seat? Would they remain prime minister? And we got to the bottom of that. But what would happen if a sitting prime minister defected to the opposition party? Would they remain prime minister? Who would be the governing party and where would he sit? Or she. I can answer some of that, I think. Okay. You wouldn't be able. You wouldn't. The governing party wouldn't change because the majority. Unless it was a majority of one. Do you see what I mean? So, yeah, of course. So that wouldn't change. They would cease to be the leader of the last party. So they'd just elect a new leader and the other leader of the party would automatically become prime minister. So effectively, then he would just become an mp for the opposition? Well, that's up to the opposition. They might make him, you know, shadow chancellor or something like that. But, yeah, the minute he leaves the parliamentary party, he ceases to be leader and therefore they just elect a new leader who automatically becomes prime minister. It's actually quite simple, isn't it? Yeah, it is, but it's worth thinking about. I quite liked it and I could be wrong. You know. The smugger I get, mate. You know how it works. The more likely it is someone comes around and gives me a slap ten minutes down the line. But I'm taking the round of applause for now. Thank you very much. You deserve it. Round of applause. That's a flipping cake, lads. Honestly. Stuff in their faces. Celebrating my listening figures by eating cake while I'm on air. And I can't eat cake. That's just. I just said a tweet out as well. Being all team. Team playery as well. Ali's in Dartford. Ally. Question or answer? Question, please, jane. Carry on. Ali. I'm learning French. I've been learning for a while now. Well, last six months. I'm not very good, so don't test me. And I'm just wondering, obviously, when you get new words in the language that come up, and I know there's some, who decides whether they're going to be masculine or feminine? Oh, wow. That's a really good question. Thank you. I thought so. No, it's incredible. So you mean like a neologism, when. When a word gets added to the vocabulary, like selfie, which I think is selfie. Selfie is a great example. So. So selfie comes along. I mean, even television, not that long ago, would have been a new word, wouldn't it? So, yes, who decides? You must be somebody. That is one of my all time favourite questions. Thank you, James. No, thank you. How happy I am about I. Just because we've been doing this so long now that you forget sometimes you get completely blindsided by something that you should have thought about before. Do you know? I mean, I don't know how long you've listened to the program. I have a very limited store of anecdotes, but there's one I haven't shared for quite a long time. Ali, would you. Would you care to hear it? I'd love to hear it. When I started work at a restaurant in Kidderminster, it was indeed. Apart from the Burnie Inn, it was the only restaurant in Kidderminster at the time, and it was called Le Brasserie. And the bloke that ran it. Absolutely lovely bloke, it's fair to say. When I pointed out that he'd misgendered his restaurant, having just spent a fortune on signage and menus. And it's fair to say he wasn't massively at Barry. That was his name, really. Top bloke, lovely boss. He wasn't hugely appreciative of my education. I can imagine. But who decided that it's labrassory and not labrassery? Eh? Exactly. I think it still is. I think it still is labrassery, actually. But I could be wrong. You've remembered it. Yeah, well, you're not going to forget. It's still there. Different management. 30 years later, it's still going strong down on lower Mill street in kiddie. I'll be walking past it on Saturday when I'm there for the West Ham game. Ali. Thank you. I shall do my best to find out who decides when a new word is added to the french dictionary, whether it is masculine or feminine. That's a brilliant question, Simon Zinslaus. Simon, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. I've got an answer for you. Carry on. I say it's about the age of the tree. And the answer is. Well, whilst there are no accurate ways of measuring the age of any tree, there is a rule of thumb, and that is for a full crowned tree. When you measure it at 1.5 meters from ground level, every inch of circumference, its girth is valued about one year. What, for all trees? All the different species? Well, not all trees. Most trees, really. It's surprisingly consistent. Is it you. There are exceptions. Certain conifers grow a little faster and some trees grow a little slower, like yew trees, for example. Yeah, but I'm being stupid here. I've misunderstood you. An oak tree is much fatter than a silver birch. Yes, but then it's longer lived, so it is that simple. A silver birch just won't last for 200 years. Therefore it will never reach the girth of an oak tree. And an oak tree that's got a massive girth is by definition, much older than any silver birch will ever be. Yeah, it's. Some trees will be in a woodland, for example, will have a slower rate of growth. So it's not absolute, but it gives us a reasonably good idea and it's the best way we go, in fact, the only way. You've got fantastic qualifications. I'm a consultant or borough culturalist. What's the difference between a consultant or borough culturalist and a dendrologist? Well, I got practicing. That's a good question. That's why they paid me the big study, the science of trees. I'm in practicing the actual there's a little. You're a bit of a dendrologist as well, though, Simon, and your average dendrologist would be a bit. Yeah, yeah. The formula comes from one of the more famous modern dendrologists as Alan Mitchell. But so he's, he's our sort of, um. The arboriculturalist hero. That is a fantastic answer and it's earned you a round of applause. But don't go away because I need to ask you something professional. So I. I chopped down a rotten tree at the weekend. I. I mentioned on Monday I'm getting into gardening and, uh, it wasn't as manly as it sounds. It was really, really rotten. But in the middle of the bark, I haven't gone back to check because I lost it among all the, all the clippings. So my saw, my hacksaw was going through it quite nicely. My. I can't remember what it's called. I got a proper one. I went to the garden center and everything and it hit something in the middle and all the wood lights are coming out. It's definitely dead. I mean, it's like balsa wood. It's so old and rotten. But there was like this weird thing in the middle of it that was almost like metal. Was it a very hard piece of wood? I don't know. I saw. I was asking you whether it could have been a very good. Because I thought it might be metal and the tree had grown around an old bit of garden furniture or something and it was quite. It was only about eight inches long and I yanked it out and then chopped off the rest of the tree. Could that have been some weird bit of very hard wood? It could. If it's not a metal object that's been developed by the tree as it grew, it could be what we call reaction wood. Yes. It's the hardest form of wood that a tree can lay down in a response to a wound. How long have you got? It's the way the tree responds to wounding. And that would make sense that it would be almost cylindrical in shape and about eight inches long, would that. Yeah, that would probably figure, yeah. Is it worth anything? Not really, no. What sort of tree was it? Ask me something about politics. You could send me a photo. It's quite astounding. It's in the. It's in the big bags now. The big bags have gone up. Well, I shall go and check. I'll go see if I can find it, because I'd be able to establish now whether it's wood or metal then. So I get a magnet or something. I suppose it could actually be a part of the original tree. It's just the tree will lay down wood. Chemically different. Yes, it would. That's really interesting. That's what I want. It wasn't a hacksaw, was it? Well, did they call this like a big sort of what they call saw, you mean? No, it was a big pruning saw. A big one. It's got like two ends and the. It goes around in the sort of d shape. Yeah, that's the one. That's. That's a bow saw. Okay. I've learned a lot today, Simon. Thank you, mate. We'll talk again. I've another round of applause for the unsolicited. For the solicited advice. Thank you. And I did warn everyone on Monday that I was going to be getting into gardening, so no complaints, please. If any complaints, address them to Keith. Michael is in Stanwell. Michael, question or answer? Hello there. I'm a big fan, by the way. Thank you very much. Sometimes I use such long words, the words I don't know about, or so it helps me because I have to look them up. Are you objecting to my sesquipa daily and enthusiasms there, Michael? I do hope so. I have no idea what you just said, but I'll say, yes, I am. Objective question. Does the queen abide by the Alm regulations, which is the anti money laundering? That would be aml, wouldn't it? You would have thought that those same rules would have applied to her or the people that were purchasing the house on her behalf. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? It was in the Pandora papers or stuff. It was all. It all came out and it was going to be looked into. I just find it quite. You know, it's strange how it applies. The queen? Yeah. I don't quite understand the question. Because, I mean, it's there to make sure that the money is kosher, for want of a better word, isn't it? Well, there's no illegitimate, the queen's loaded funds? No, no. She purchased a property. Yeah. Off of. Off of a family that, you know, I don't want to mention. But the house was actually in a nine year old child's name. What was the queen's house? No, no. A property in London, I think was Mayfair. Right. Was purchased from a nine year old child, which was the son of a. I'm not gonna. You know, a dodgy. A dodgy family somewhere in the world. Right. And those regulations and those rules didn't seem to apply. Because if they had, they wouldn't have been able to purchase the property. Right. Yeah. When my partner was. Was trying to sell her house, they had. She had to disclose exactly where the money was that she got to buy her house. And it just. You know, it's quite frustrating. I don't know if somebody can tell me if the rules don't apply to the queen, which is buying the house. Yeah. Okay. I mean, I think, unfortunately, there's specifics that have prompted your question are not going to be known to anybody else listening unless you're very, very lucky. But possibly the broader question of. I mean, does the queen have to obey the law, really, is what you're asking. But specifically the money laundering stuff. I see what I can do, Michael, but I wouldn't put money on getting it. I hope you do. And obviously, if you do put money on it, we'll have to go through all the rigmarole of establishing exactly where it's come from and making sure. On LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's 1235 and mystery air is underway. Question still in need of answers. That one went well, didn't it? I love the tree answer. Indigenousness. At what point does a family become indigenous? How long do they have to be here? Do onions make any other animals cry? That's for Yuvie, who's off school, age nine with COVID So it would be nice to get him an answer. Why do the timber yard and the oil refinery, and presumably some other establishment near Helen instructs all drivers, all workers, everyone arriving in the car park to reverse into their parking spaces? If that proves to be evidence for the prosecution and that I should do more motoring questions, I shall obviously eat a small slice of humble pie. If there's any left within that p. I'm defecting the language. If a new word is added to the french dictionary, who decides whether it is masculine or feminine? That was from Ali. Have we got any others? Have I missed any out? There was one. I think we did that. We'll see. Anyway, Sam's in Amisham. Sam, question or answer? Sam Osham. Hi, David. Nice to talk to you. I've got an answer for your french language question. Mercy. And so there's an institution called the academie Francaise, which was set up in the 16 hundreds, I believe, which actually governs what words are added to the french language, unlike English, which is just a jumble of words picked up from here, there and everywhere. And there's nothing governing it. Yeah, well, I suppose that's a formal institution. Which does it in French. The dictionary. People kind of operate unofficially in that. In the same. If it gets introduced to the Oxford English Dictionary. They're following trends. Yes, they are. What is spoken in the street and picked up. So french language is actually much more formally organized. And it is. And they decide whether it's going to be masculine or feminine. They decide whether it's allowed or not. And whether it's masculine or feminine. But in the case of things like television. It will be based on the words it's made up of. So vision will already have a lo. A definite article attached to it. Yes. So, do you know what is etymologically fascinating about the word television? Go on. It comes from both Greek and Latin. It does. Did you know that already? Well, yes. Why didn't you say so when I asked them? I feel silly now. So many plant names, and they're used in horticulture. Are also a mixture of Greek and Latin. And people often refer to latin names, but they're not. They're a mixture of all kinds of plants. James Wong is a big listener to the program. The botanist. So he will know. Yes. And he desperately wants to be interviewed on your podcast. So I hope he doesn't make him sound needy like that. He's a big be on the list anyway. He's a fascinating bloke. And now that I'm becoming a big gardener, it's a natural progression. Qualifications, please, Sam? I've got a degree in French and German. Indeed. And what do we know what criteria they use? Or is it buggin's turn? Is it? I really wouldn't be able to answer that question, I'm afraid. I mean, if there were no identifying factors. Like etymology or root words. Selfie. Selfie is a great example, isn't it? Selfie. Would it be selfie? La selfie? Would it depend what it was a selfie of? But anyway, it doesn't matter. You've answered the question. And the answer is. Academie. L'academie francaise. Oui, oui, oui, monsieur. I'm just trying to think what it is in French. Unclap. Or is it. Oon, clap. Theo's in Durham. Honestly. You wait one Theo to come along, and there's two in an hour. Theo, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Theo. Why are legal pads yellow? Why aren't these made of white paper? That's a nice question. Actually, that'd probably be a nice answer as well. We shall find out. Are you training? Are you a lawyer? Are you a serial recidivist criminal? Spend a lot of time in court? No, no, no. I was in a lecture the other day and saw someone had one and thought, why? Surely it's just harder to photocopy. It's just a bit of a fast diet. It just seems a bit silly. Unless it is that you shouldn't be able to use stuff in court that hasn't been through some sort of process or can't be easily swapped. I don't know. Anyway, I'm trying to answer it. I'll find out for you. Why are legal pads, legal papers, always yellow? Aaron is in just up the way, really, in Newcastle. Aaron, what would you like to say? Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on to the reverse park question just again. Anyone just tuning in now, thinking they must have got the wrong show. We did actually accept a question about reverse parking earlier and I will be finding out how. I think there was a lot of cake involved in the editorial process at that point in proceedings and that's how it got through. Aaron, what's the answer? It's a health and safety problem. If you obviously reverse park into somewhere, you've got less chance of when you come out of knocking someone over. So you'll be driving out, you know, front first. So it's got nothing to do. Why is that? Field of vision? Yeah, it's got nothing to do with the local approaching the car. Exactly. Or whatever you. Whereas if you are. If you drove in front first, you'd have to look in mirrors, you would have blind spots, etcetera. Why? Why don't all car parks have this rule in place? Sorry? Why don't all car parks have this rule in place? I'm not too sure, really. It's obviously easier to reverse park in just a way, because when you come out, you've got your front wheels that are steering, whereas if you think of like a forklift truck when you're reversing, then the car, if you are, reverse park and would have the rear wheels, which would be your front wheels, so they can turn on like a six pin. So it's a lot easier to maneuver when you reverse. Well, there we go. Qualifications work in the oil and gas industry, and we've got the same rules there at work. Well, then I'm intrigued again. Now, why would the oil and gas industry be so on this when other industries aren't? They're very sort of health and safety oriented now. Well, you'd hope so, what with all the oil and gas sloshing around the place. But that. I mean. Okay, so there may be some pertinence to Helen's point that it was a timber yard in an oil refinery that she noticed it in, but it could have been anywhere up and down the country. Yeah, there's probably other industries that adopt the same sort of principles, but the main focus of it is the health and safety point of view. Because if you're reversing out of somewhere. No, I know. Don't say it again, please. I know, I know, I know, I know. I'm flipping. I already worked it out myself, to be honest with you, but you're the expert, so you get the round of applause. All right, thank you. Mind. You know, I've just realized the reason that question got through in the first place when I had no offense to Aaron or to Helen, I think it proved my point about where we are generally led with motoring related questions. That question only got through because Alex, who's producing the show today, got ambushed by a cake. So it's not just prime ministers that it can happen to, you see, it can happen to mild mannered radio producers as well. Got ambushed by a cake. And that's how the call got through. So, you know, maybe it's time we were all a little bit more kindly and generous towards the Downing street party starter. Anthony's in Moswell. Anthony, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. How do we tell how. I've forgotten how to word it now. How do we tell how? It's a very complicated question. How do we tell how quickly time passes on other planet? It's not that complicated. I mean, now you say it like that. Of course it isn't. Why would there be difference? And I'm going to sound stupid now because I've been giggling at you. Why would time pass differently on other planets? Because we had, on one of the recent space missions, I was reading somewhere on the Internet, it was a legit. It wasn't one of those, you know, it was a legit mission where basically they suggested that five days was equivalent to one of our years on whatever planet orbits around the sun, won't it? But there was no mention of a sun or anything like that. It was very much. And I just wondered, how would they tell? There must have been a sun somewhere involved. There's always a confirm nor deny that you're leading me onto very thin ice here. But I'm doing it with my full chest. I mean, I think. Yeah, all right. What was the example again? The five days bit. Say it again, it was basically five days on whatever planet was that we visited was equivalent to one of our years. Five days of every planet. But without visiting the planet, how would you know that? Yeah, and there was a whole explanation. Nothing mentioned or. But if there's a whole explanation, why are you asking me? Well, because it didn't go into the detail of how they figured out. Well, that's why they didn't mention orbits. If it. All right, snorbits. Snorbits. If it doesn't contain orbits. Taking me back. It doesn't contain orbits. I shall be surprised, but I shall put the question on the board. How do we tell how time works on other planets? I'll just write time on other planets for my notes. Thank you very much indeed, Anthony. We shall do our best to find out for you. What was the name of the nice gentleman that answered the motoring question? I think he might be in the lead for the thing because I was a bit mean to him. Was it? Well, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LB says it was a bit weird when things like that happen. I'm absolutely loving. Stay close on Netflix at the moment, I don't know if you've seen it. Harlan Coban, one of my favorite thriller writers, who's appeared on full disclosure, actually, if you want to. It was one of the ones we did on Zoom during lockdown, and Joe Joiner, the star of it, has just tweeted me. So do a little double take. You think? Is that. Anyway, I probably shouldn't get so distracted when I'm presenting a moderately successful radio program. 1249 is the time. Darren is in Plymouth. Darren, question or answer? James? It's a question. Carry on. Okay, so can dogs recognize themselves in the mirror? I have two dogs. One of them goes absolutely balmy when he sees himself in a mirror and the other one just completely ignores it. So is one clever in one stick or whatever? Are they the same breed? No, completely different. So one of them thinks it's another dog? Well, I don't know. That's. That's the most recognized. Otherwise they recognize himself. What's he like when he encounters other dogs? Uh, fine. Oh, so, yeah, it's really weird. It's like I said, any mirror. So really, we want to know what they see in a mirror, don't we? What do they see in a mirror? Do they have the cognitive ability to. There was an amazing thing. I'm getting very old, Darren. I mention it occasionally. I even found myself watching animal videos on the Internet. And there was one of a dog in front of a mirror, kind of raising its paw really slowly and then putting it down again and then raising it up. So it really did look as if he was going, oh, wow. Yeah, exactly. And that's the thing. One goes, my ad, starts barking, walks off, comes back, barks again. The other one looks and just walks past. So, like I said, either one's very clever or one's very thick, or, I don't know, dogs and mirrors. You're on. I like it. Well done, Darren. Nice one. I knew this had happened. Getting complaints about the blooming parking question. It's not about health and safety, says Alan, it's about evacuation of sight. But I can't get through on the phone lines. Well, I would file evacuation of sight under health and safety, personally, but, you know, this is why we don't do motoring questions. Ambushed by cake. Chris is in Bristol. Chris, question or answer? Here's an answer. Carry on. Yeah, it's for the question of whether other animals cry onions in the same way humans do. Oh, yeah. And the answer is yes, depending on the animal. Because crying onions is the body's defense mechanism, trying to wash out the sulfur compound, which is the irritant in the onions. So your tear ducts are trying to wash out the sulfur from the eyes. Depends on the way the animals tear duct is designed. So you've got dogs and cats that will not like the smell or the taste of onions, but you also have other animals, like cows or goats, where their tear ducts are designed differently. And particularly animals that live underground will have much differently designed tear ducts, and they will actually eat onions, roar out the ground with no irritable effects. Got it? Yeah. Qualifications? I was a police officer and we switched over from. Yeah, for five years, and we switched over from a CS spray, which would affect the respiratory system. We switched from that to parva, which is a pepper compound. So the CS spray would affect humans but not dogs. So you could actually spray it human and the dog nearby wouldn't be affected. When we switch to parva, it's a pepper spray that goes into the eyes, which could also be used on basically a dog. If it was attacking you, you could actually use the spray on the dog as well. Well, there you go. Lovely. Well, only five years, if you don't mind me asking. I'm just naturally curious, Chris. Well, I was a volunteer and. Yeah, the shift started getting a little bit longer and I was given the chance to go back to university and study the degree. So it was the right fit for me to go. Good man. Great stuff. Round of applause. Alex is in Rotherham. Alex, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on, mate. It's for the legal pads. Oh, yeah. Yeah. They're yellow because lawyers work with lots of documents, so when they're writing their notes, they need to identify where their notes are in the big pile of documents. Oh, yeah. No, hang on. You just say that bit again. Say it again. They're yellow because when the lawyers are ranking notes on documents, they work with big piles of documents. They need to identify where their notes are in the piles of documents. Ah, so that. So the. The documents are not written by the lawyers? No, no, the notes are slotted into the pages. That's right. So they're like. So they're like post it notes but not like full pages? Yeah, yeah, exactly that. Qualifications. Like it. Well, I'm not a lawyer, I'm an archaeologist, but I saw this on. It's a phrase I hear every day. I saw this on. What's it called? Better call Saul, the prequel separation bird. That's a perfect. Then I looked it up myself about three months ago. Oh, I love it, I love it, I love it, I love it. Round of applause for Alex. I am fascinated by archaeology, but I've only got four minutes of the program left, so I can't really go off on one like I did with the arboreal cultural stroke dendrologist, so I will do it another time. Alex. Aris is in Epsom. Aris, question or answer? Aris 1255 is the time. I don't know what's happened to Aris. Dogs and mirrors, time on other planets. Yellow pads, we've done. Language, we've done. Tim, beyond, we've done. Onions, we've done. And so we've only got indigenousness left. David and the Queen. That strange question about the queen and money laundering. Do dogs recognize themselves in. In mirrors and the passage of time on other planets? David is in Richmond. David, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on, Dave. Regarding the queen and money laundering, I didn't really understand the question, the detail. The essential question, I think, was, is the queen subject to the money laundering regulation 2017? Yes. And the answer is no. Yes. The first answer is the queen is subject to sovereign immunity. Right. Therefore can't actually commit a criminal offence on everything. Yes, exactly, yes. But the money laundering regulations only apply to regulated persons, so lawyers, bankers, those working in finance. So it wouldn't apply to her anyway. But the questioner felt that his partner was required to jump through various legal hoops when she was selling her house or buying a house. Yes, but however, that's the slight, but yes. The queen's not personally subject to to it. However, if the monarchy were to instruct the services of any regulated person, any lawyer, anyone involved in finance, they would have to satisfy themselves that the regulations have been complied with. So, for example, she wants to purchase a new palace. They'd have to check the source of the funding to make sure it's not the proceeds of crime. Qualifications. White collar crime lawyer, lecturer in AML and I had a fairly minor role in the drafting of the 2017 money laundering regulations. Ooh, yeah, go on. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. You did more than make the tea, David, when you say a relatively minor role. Yes. I mean with. I can't say exactly what, but gave a lot of consultations and hopefully contributed a bit towards it. Hopefully. Have you ever had a case ruined by a colleague eating cake at an inappropriate moment? I once had somebody in a meeting, for some extra reason, literally pull an entire plate of biscuits towards them and eat every single biscuit, really, which rather puts yours medium of the presenter here was a presenter here once who came into the studio with a bag of doughnuts and she, throkhe took six doughnuts and she gave one doughnut to the production team that'd be three people, and said, there you go, you share that. And then sat in the studio and ate five donuts. Bloody. Yeah. I assume you don't want guesses on that. No, no, no. Vieri's here. Quickly. Doctor dog. Doctor dog. Can dogs recognize themselves in mirrors, Vieri? Only a few awareness tests that are visual. So awareness tests are usually visual and no, they cannot. They recognize a form but they cannot recognize themselves. But there are some new tests being made on olfactory recognition, so they might be able to recognize their smell. There you go. That's the answer to that one. I like it. I know. And so why would. Briefly, why would one of the questioners dogs go, it was Darren, I think. Why would one of his dogs go nuts and the other one not ballistic? Because some dogs are reactive to other dogs. The form of other dogs and some sheep and some dogs are just not. Awareness is something that's very human. A couple of other animals have it qualifications. Quickly, I'm doctor dogs. Round of applause for Doctor dog, who works with dogs. I think that way. We're out of time. I'm going to give it. I'm actually going to give it today to Ali because the question about the french gender of words, I nearly gave it to Sam, who answered the question, but I just loved that question. And Ali wins the game. Wins the mystery outboard game. Full terms and conditions available at LBC dot co dot UK.