Why do pencils have a B in their name? - 19 Mar 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC five minutes after twelve is the time, and mystery hour is upon us. Welcome, and a little special welcome to all the people who've been complaining to LBC about the absence of mystery. Our podcasts. While I've been away for the last couple of weeks, you might as well wear a t shirt admitting that you don't listen to the other 14 hours of broadcasting. That we do. I suppose better than nothing. But anyway, we're back with a vengeance. Back once again like a renegade master. If you've got a question that needs an answer, you know what to do by now. If you don't know what to do, allow me to explain. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve satisfaction, enlightenment, knowledge, or, if you're on the other side of the fence, to show off about how clever you are, how easy. Ring Zero 345-606-0973 if you've got lurking in the back of your brain, a who, a why, a when, a where, a wither or a wherefore, the notion, being fairly straightforwardly, that if you want to get an answer, somebody else listening will probably have it. Only two rules. If it is repetitious or dull, we will politely invite you to free up the phone line for somebody who is neither repetitious nor dull. Repetitious you can't help dullness. You probably can. If it's a question that you don't think really hand on heart, will anyone else really be interested in the answer to this question, or is it just me? If it's just you, probably not. For us, zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you do know the answer, then give me a ring on zero three 4560-609-7563 we don't really do emails or text. I might do a twitter question if it's good enough. But seeing as I haven't been here, we haven't had a mystery out for the last three weeks. There won't be a backlog of questions submitted by Twitter for people who listen to the podcast rather than the live broadcast. I think that's pretty much it, isn't it? Should we just crack on? Less of me, more of you. It's always good, isn't it? Yeah. So I'll mention the phone line when I have I'll mention the phone number when I have free phone lines. 0345-6060 so nine, seven, three is the number that you need. Let's start with Elaine. The lovely Elaine in Forest Hill. Elaine, what's your question? Still lovely. Hello. To get over the fact that you've been away for two whole weeks. Sorry. Sorry. I went to the ideal home exhibition. And in the gardening session, they have a large. I have a large silver ball, or metal ball, anyway. About three foot in diameter. Right. And I've seen it before. But I was reminded of the mystery hour thing where the water comes up through the top of the bowl. The ball then runs down the side of the ball. But when it gets to halfway, if you like the equator of the ball, it doesn't just simply drop off, but it goes round the bottom of the bowl again. So it sticks to the ball. The water sticks to the ball, yes. But it doesn't stick. It flows around. Yeah. You know what I mean? But it goes round it. Right. Sorry. I'm just trying to help. No, no. Well, I thought I'd put the word equator in. It might help people as well, to visualize the things. I have seen it on a much bigger scale in Gran Canaria as well, where they've got a similar thing down an arcade of pillars. So it's a water feature which appears to defy the laws of gravity. Yes. Yes. One of the things I'm thinking it might be to do with was the speed at which the water goes down the thing. Down the ball. Round the ball. Because it reminds me of when we went with Apollo 13 to the moon. When you say we, you mean as a species, you weren't personally involved in human? Yes. Okay. On that occasion, they want to do it. They aborted the mission to land on the moon. And so what they had to do, or tried to, was what they call a slingshot, which was that the astronauts would go round the moon, not land, and then come back to Earth. And I wondered if that would have the same effect on the water coming up the top of the ball, then going halfway down. But because it was going faster, slightly, I think we should have. We should have left it in Gran Canaria and stayed clear of outer space once a similar principle. Yeah, I know, but I'm just confused. Well, it is misty hour. True, but not. Not what I was expecting you to say was some sort of gravity which was pulling it towards the ball. Well, I'm not gonna say anything because I'm really usually. Do you like your six pennies? No, I've changed now. I've changed. I'm a lot. A lot more shiny. Do you understand the problem? Yeah, yeah. Yes. You've got a ball, water comes out the top of it. It dribbles down the side. Theoretically it should dribble off when it reaches the halfway point, but it carries on dribbling. Yes. Down to the rest of the ball. And then more water comes out the top and keeps. So it's a constant thing going. You just want to know how it works. Oh, no. Well, I know. Well, yes, on how it works. Yes. Yeah. All right, I'll ask. How does that work, then. Thank you. Elaine. Craig's in Orpington. Great. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question, go on. Why is it that most houses have front doors that open inwards? Wouldn't it be a better security thing if I opened outwards? It depends who you're trying to be secure about, doesn't it? Well, burglars. Yeah. What's your front door like? Are you at home at the moment? I am. All right, well, describe your front door to me. From the inside. From the inside, it's like a massive sort of plank of wood. Yes. In a frame. Okay. That opened inwards. Yeah. Okay. I want you now, and I don't know if you can do this. It's quite a feat of imagination that I'm going to ask you, are you ready for this, Greg? I think I am ready, yeah. Now, imagine that it opened outwards. Right. Right. You still with me? Yeah. Okay, I'm standing outside. Yeah. I haven't got around to knocking yet. Right, you're rushing out the house because you're late for work. Go, go. Right. Yep. Flipping it, Craig. What was that for? I've only come round to borrow a pint of milk. You've just concussed me. But isn't that a small price to pay to have it as a better security risk? Well, my concussion is a small price to pay for the possibility that someone's going to kick your front door in. Yeah. No. Oh, round of applause for me. Okay, yeah. Well done, James. Carry on, Greg. Thank you very much. By the way, I've missed your podcast, too. I listen to them every week because I'm a postman, so I listen to them every Friday. Well, you're going to listen to this one even though you're on it. Yeah, probably. All right, well, you'll know how it ends. Mohammed is in Skipton. Question or answer? Mohammed. Question, James. Right, so why don't you get hungover when you're younger. Oh, I like that. That's actually. That's gonna be medical, isn't it, rather than sort of booze based. Yeah, we are pretty much 16 year old brother every Sunday morning. Who, bright as a daisy guy, play football, everything. Exactly. And then there's me, like, kind of. Hang on, how old are you? Comatose. I'm 20, mate. Listen, I'd hate to break it to you, but you are still. You are on the nursery slopes of hangovers, my friend. 20. You don't know you're born. When it comes to hangovers, I can grow a beard and everything, so don't. I'm not questioning your testosterone levels. I'm merely telling you that I was 20 once. And if you think that's a hangover, mate, you have got one big wake up call coming. Old brother. Doing. Getting caned every weekend. I know, right? Yeah, I should probably get to. I blame the parents. Mohammed, it's a lovely question. Why does it. Why do hangovers get worse with age? And they will get worse for you at 20? I mean, I was 26. I used to keep a clean shirt. When I met misses O'Brien, I would keep a clean shirt in my office drawer for the times when I'd gone all the way through. And admittedly I was a showbiz journalist and gossip columnist. I wasn't a. I don't know, I wasn't operating heavy machine or conducting brain surgery. But sometimes you just get an hours kip, 2 hours kip, if that. Or you'd actually be out all night coming to work, had a shower in the basement, put on a clean shirt and I'd get through the day. Now. Now I've had hangovers that have lasted weeks. Deborah's in Gatwick. Deborah, question or answer? It's a question, James, please. Yes, it's a time question. And I think I might need someone that knows something about history. I know, but if it's 54 BC and I'm standing, I'm going to say, brendan, because obviously there's Ireland, England, Wales. Might be different answers. What time would I think it was? Because obviously it's before Christ. I just wondered how they calculated time, the different calendars all over the world, off the. Off the top of my head, I don't know. So if you were standing in Gatwick. Yes. In 54, what we would now call 54 BC. Yeah. And someone wandered up to you contemporaneously and said, oi, Deborah, what year is it? What year is it? What would you have said? Yeah, that's a lovely question. I've wondered about it for a long time. What, specifically? 54 BC. Well, no, it can be any. Any point in time that you like to pick. It can be a little bit into ad, I would imagine, because the news might have taken a while to spread. A lot. A long time to spread before the Romans got something. I would like to know the answer to that question, please. So would I now. I love it. Thank you. You're on. How are your hangovers at this stage in your life, Deborah? I have four children, so they're virtually non existent due to the fact that I don't get to the out crazy stage. Sorry, not allowed. No, you're on. So if we bumped into Deborah in Gatwick in 54 BC, what year would it have been? I love that question. If you know the answer to it. Zero. 345-606-0973 why do hangovers get worse as you get older? The number remains the same. And Elaine's lovely question. Those water features with the big metal balls where the water adheres or flows down the side of the ball, even after the halfway mark, when you'd expect it just to dribble off, how does it stick, for want of a better word, to the metal? And any questions you've got on the way as well. It's 1215. This is LBC, 19 minutes after twelve. Are we really going to have a stewards inquiry on the door? Question. I've been away, forgotten who's in charge. Why do your hangovers get worse as you get older? If you bumped into Deborah and Gatwick in the year that we now call 54 BC and said, oi, Deborah, what year is it? What would she have said? What year would it have been? And those water features where water appeared to flow around a sphere, what's that all about? Philip's in Goffzo. Philip. Question or answer? It's an answer, and I hope you'll be slightly kinder to me than you were last time when we had an argument about wasps and predatory behavior. Go on, mate. It's really the attractive forces that are in the water molecules, and if you increase the flow of the water coming out of one of those kind of features, it would in fact just shear off at the vertical section. So there's a speed at which it will stick for once. A slightly. There's a certain flow rate rate that you have to keep it low and then it will keep. It will clean the water molecules themselves, will cling to themselves and only come off right at the bottom when they flow back into the in the same way that. In the same way that when you're doing the washing up and you pick a plate up and you hold. You hold it for a while, the bottom of it isn't suddenly dry. Yeah, yeah, exactly the same. The water will just actually cling to it because the attractive forces that were inhaled. It's nothing to do. I was wrong to even bring gravity into it. It's all about water tension. It's water tension, but gravity will overcome that. What you've got at a certain speed. Yeah. A certain. Certain flow rate, the gravity will pull the water off. It won't be able to hold itself to the ball anymore. Qualification? What are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? Nothing to do with that. But I am. I've got a degree in human biology and we learned about surfactants and water tension in the lungs of infants. There you go. So it kind of fits the same thing. How hard would it be if we were to continue this conversation? How hard would it be for us, one of us, to import my second favourite mystery, our word of all time, which is meniscus, extremely easily, because the meniscus on the water, which is the surface tension, basically holds the water to the ball. So once you overcome the gravitational pull on a meniscus tension, it would then shear away from the ball itself. So in a way, it's all about meniscus. Yeah. But not osmosis. Oh, it's not. What? It's not. It's not working. Not osmosis. Oh, it's not osmosis. That's why the hallelujah chorus didn't kick in. If it had, if you use the word correctly, it would have. I thought the machine had broken while I'd been away. Philip, let's just make sure the applause is still working. Thank you. Does that make up for me being rude about wasps last time? Extremely. Thank you, man. Carry on. Thank you, Philip. Steve's in Ricell. Steve, question or answer? Question. James. Yes. Welcome back, by the way. I've been back for days, but no one ever notices till mystery house starts. Anyway, carry on. This is a simple question, but a deep mystery. Tea towels. Why are they called tea towels? Where does the tea come into it? It's a good question. It is a good question, isn't it? I fear it will remain an answer as well. Do you? Well, I mean, it's to distinguish it from towels with which you dry yourself. Is it? Yeah, quite, yeah. So it's the towel with which you dry kitchen. So, like kitchen towel, really, but that's been sort of hijacked now by paper towels. But not originally. I mean, not when tea towels first. No, quite. No, I remember. Yeah, I like that. Why are tea towels called tea towels? Great. Leave it with me, Steve. Thank you very much. If you bumped into Deborah in Gatwick in 54 BC, and you said to, oi, Deborah, what year is it? What would her answer have been? Her correct answer have been, and why do hangovers get worse as you get older? We've gone definitive on Elaine's question. Of course, Steve's in Stockwell. All right, Steve, what have you got? Right. I didn't hear the answer because I was on my hands free kit about it. You said, there's Stuart's inquiry. Basically, with UPVC doors, if you open it inwards, the hinges are inside, so they're more safer if you open it outwards. The hinges on the outside that can be attacked or grind off, et cetera, et cetera. That's all I would say. That's on a UPVC door, but not on a wooden one. No, that's what I said to the girl. Wood is inside and out. But you didn't say, if it's a wood, just set a door. Didn't say no. You see, it's not your fault, this. But this is not a steward's inquiry. This is you. Correct? No, it's fine. No, it's not your fault, mate. I'm just. I'm just making the point in a passive aggressive way to my colleagues that you shouldn't have been put through because I was right in the first place and we were talking about a wood door. And all you've done is expand the correctness of my answer into the realms of UPVC doors. Okay, I didn't hear it because I was on my. I know, I know. It's not your job to know what's happened on the program. So I'll give you a round of applause and my good wishes. Jones the engineer's job. So when I said to Jones the engineer, are we really having a stewards inquiry on this? I don't really see how I could be wrong. And Jones the engineer said, no, I think you are wrong on this. Still do. Do you? Okay, a little bit. Keep them coming. Derek is in. Worthing. Question or answer? Derek. Hello, James. It's a question. But I did have an answer for the door. But he told me I couldn't give you an answer for the door. But I wanted to ask you a question. He was right. Now carry on with your question. Okay, I've got a springer spaniel. And he's a lovely springer spaniel. If he's asleep or if he's away from me and I happen to sneeze wherever I am and he hears me sneeze, he comes to me and he sits down and he looks at me. Now, I don't. Yeah, he does. And I don't know why. I don't know why he does that, because there's other noises going on in the house, other things happen. But whenever I sneeze, he looks up and he comes over and he sits down, he looks at me. Now, I know dogs are very perceptive, but I've asked another dog owner, his dog does the same thing, so I just wondered what the possible answer was. He's obviously worried about you, isn't he? Yeah, I guess so, yeah. Is it the noise? Could it be the noise? There's no training involved here at all? No, no, no. I mean, he is very well trained and very well behaved, but no, I've not. I've not trained him to do anything on sneezing. No. And he comes to check on you. Yeah. I just. You do hear, don't you, that dogs can perceive things about humans? Yeah. The reason I'm being a bit nervous here is how long has it been going on for? Stop laughing. Well, as long. As long as we have him, I suppose, because I just. I've got hate. I'd hate for you to be poorly and actually the dogs picked up on it before anybody else has. But you've been. That's. I mean it. I'm not. But. But that's not what's happening. Yeah. If anyone in the house does, it's my wife. Do you do anything when he cut you sneeze? The dog comes. Do you do anything else? Do you give him a biscuit or a cuddle or. No, he just sits over the. With a quizzical look on his. On his. All right, well, so why does your. Why, why does your spaniel come whenever you sneeze? I like that. Well, why does Derek Spaniel sneezing? Why does Derek Spaniel. Why is Derek Spaniel summoned by a sneeze? She sells seashells. Martin's in Bexley Heath. Question or answer, Martin. Question. Carry on. Colored contacts lenses. Is it like looking through sunglasses when you've got them in? And you know those, like, solid white ones that Marilyn Manson would wear what looks like a fixed pupil, would that restrict your vision? So if you walked into a dark room and your pupil wants to dilate because you've got a solid white? It's a good question, mate, and you're on the board, but is it really a mystery hour question you could have just. Where do you live? Bexley. How many opticians do you walk past on your way up Bexley Heath high Street? Oh, probably three or four. You just stick your head around the door. So. Excuse me, mate, you know those colored contact lenses, do they make the whole world go blue? I don't know. I've never thought of it before. I just thought of it the other day. Really? I haven't been up there since. Oh, fair enough. Especially the Marilyn Manson ones. Would that restrict your vision? Misses O'Brien got some for Halloween. Pardon? Misses O'Brien got some for Halloween. Yeah. Could she see okay? Yeah, absolutely. Normally, yeah, even through the solid white. She had red eyes, mate. She had red witches eyes. Oh, really? Yeah. Oh, right, okay. Is that an answer? That's definitive, isn't it? I think so, yeah. I think the colored ones, the clear colored ones would be like sunglasses. But I'm just wondering about the solid, solid colored ones. No, these were solid red. She had completely red eyes for Halloween. The girls thought it was fantastic, but she didn't see the world as red. It was not rose tables. No. Obviously, living with me, life is rose tinted all the time, but. Yes, thank you very much. But it wasn't. It wasn't especially rose tinted. Thing is, now we've had a stewards inquiry on the door I'm gonna get. Now, I'm gonna go in on this one, but if anyone does challenge my position, Martin, I shall review it. But I'm taking the applause. All right, mate. Thank you very much. It's 29 minutes after twelve. Why does Derek's. Why is Derek Spaniel summoned by a sneeze? Why are tea tales called tea tales? If you bumped into Deborah in Gatwick in 54 BC and you said, oi, Deborah, what year is it? What would her answer be? The correct answer, because it can't be BC, because Christmas hasn't been born yet, obviously. And why do hangovers get worse with age? All those questions still in need of answers. And, of course, room for a couple more questions. Your questions on zero, 345-606-0973 you're listening to mystery hour with me, James O'Brien, on LBC. Questions that are still needing answers. We've just been through and the questions that haven't been asked yet. Well, that's your department. I can only deal with the stuff that we've got. The stewards inquiry on the door has been roundly rejected. My round of applause remains, although Jones the engineer continues to shake his head in a wry and vaguely skeptical fashion. There's no other reason why. Also has something to do with servants for inside doors. So that the. If you were dressing, the door opens on the sort of. So you couldn't see into the room. When the servant came into the room with your bed pan or your, you know, your hot water bottles and you were in your bloomers, the servant wouldn't be able to see because the door would be in the way and you'd have that little moment of warning. But that doesn't work with front doors. It's 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 26 minutes to one. You are listening to mystery hour. Let's crack on. Actually, Nick's in St Albans. Nick, question or answer? Answer, James. Come on, sir. It's the answer to 58 BC. What would the actual date be? 54 BC. 54. 54 BC. I can't give you specifics of the actual date, but it all depends upon which regime is in charge, where you are at the time. For instance, if you were in 54 BC. Gatwick, mate, this isn't going well. If you were in Gatwick in 54 BC, you'd probably be under the roman calendar, because the Romans had conquered that part of Britain at the time. So you'd be working under the roman calendar if you were further north in England. So what would the roman calendar be then, in 54 BC? I don't like specifics, James, because it wasn't standardized at that time. Your answer to this question, then, is, as far as I can tell. Well, James, that would depend on what calendar they were following. And the question that. The question Deborah asked is effectively, what calendar were they following? The roman calendar, because the Romans conquered that part of Britain. But you probably find that the indigenous celtic population were following their own celtic calendar. What, so you had two different calendars going on in the same town? Absolutely. Good lord. How did anyone ever know what time to catch their plane? The roman calendar. And I think I'll wait for another cut. Nick, you're not going to get a round of applause for that, I'm afraid, because you do need to put a number on it, even if it is a number that you could also say some people living in Gatwick might have disagreed with. I think that the Romans dated it for the notional founding of Rome, I think was 750 bc. Yeah, I'll go with it. And that means carrying on from then 750 -54 700 and 5696 so it would be 690. It would be the year 696. There you go. A few miles north of that. James, stop it. We're in Gatwick. Deborah is in Gatwick. She wanted to know what year it was in Gatwick. She doesn't want to go a few miles north and go all sort of, I don't know, Scottish. Well, that's what the answer is, then, James. Let's share the applause then, shall we? Absolutely. Do you don't know something pathetic? Stephen's in edge row. Steven, do you want to know something pathetic? Go on, then. Sometimes when I get that round of applause, I actually put my arms out like I've just scored a goal and I'm on the radio. How tragic is that? Very. It is. Question or answer? It's a question. Okay, so the japanese snow monkeys, right? Yeah. In the winter periods where they get into the hot spring spas to warm up, do they? What happens when they get out the spa? How do they stay warm? Because they're getting out the snow to go into the spa to warm up. Yeah. They can't stay in the spa all winter, obviously. When you say spa, you mean hot springs, do you? A hot spring. Sorry, not like a sort of massage parlor, boutique hotel. No. Hot stones treatment. So what happens when they get out? How do they stay warm? And if it's a case because they've got fur, why do they need to get into the springs in the first place? I'm intrigued to know why you're asking where your interest lies. What is the. I mean, it's just something I saw in one of these nature programs once and it just intrigued me. Well, they get in for a bit of a warm. Yeah. And it's freezing cold outside with a lot of snow. How do they stay warm when they get out of the spring? Well, they're not going to be as warm as they were when they were in the spring, but they're going to be warmer than they were before they got in it. Isn't that the point? Unless I'm missing something. But surely once they get sat, they're going to be soaking wet and in the snow, it's going to be freezing cold, so they're cooled down even quicker, won't they? Am I not explaining it properly? Well, it could be me, mate. I'll be honest with you. This is one of those moments where I am torn between thinking this is one of the worst questions we've ever had, or one of the best. So just to make sure I've understood correctly. When japanese snow monkeys get out of the spa, it's spring. Spring. Out of the hot spring. When japanese snow monkeys get out of the hot spring that they got into to keep warm, how cold are they? Well, how do they keep warm after that? Because their fur will be soaking wet. Yeah. And obviously, how do they stop freezing? So when a japanese snow monkey gets back into the snow, how does it stop freezing? Why doesn't it freeze? Yeah. Blood. And if it's. If it's to do the fur, why did they have to get into the spring in the first place? Because they should have been warm from the. Well. All right. I'll tell you one thing. If we get an answer to this question, I'll give you the money myself. Good luck, though. I mean, I think I've understood it. Zen is in Lewisham. Zen. Question or answer? Question? Yes. I don't know if other people have this, but very often I get to have a static charge for my car. Now, I've taken the car to the garage many times and there's nothing they can do. And they say they even undergone say no, no. You just pretending that. But anyway. Well, they accuse you of lying about getting a static charge from your own car. Yeah. Cuz, you know, funny enough, they don't get it. And every time, every time I have friends with me, I let them go off the car first to see if they get the static charge. And I do. Wow. And they don't what? Every time. And after I touch it, I get it so easy. Once I thought it might be my clothes. Yeah. Produces static charge. But I keep changing the clothes and it is same thing every day. So he's getting me to a point, like he's bugging me every time I go out. I hate touching the car because I get it. What stars are. What star sign are you then? Oh, I think is. What is it? I don't really see that. I don't really know that. But I think I'm. What you call them, Sagittarius. I born in March, march, end of my season. What is it? Pisces or Aries? Aries. No. What sort of shoes do you wear? Trainers. Rubber soled shoes. Rubber? Yeah. It now something to do with leakage to ground or anything like that. Something doing what? Yeah, I thought you were thinking that I might have like a contact to the ground. And that's why I get it, but it's nothing to do with it. Where do you drive? I mean, what is your daily routine? Is it home and work? Yeah. No, I drive. I drive a car around and do maintenance sometimes. So you're in different places all the time? Yeah. And different cars as well. So it's not only my car. Well, then it's not the car, it's you. Yes, but can anyone explain how do you get rid of it? It's the shoes. I mean, static electricity, the charge is always caused by shoes or clothes. And then when you touch something metal, you get a connection, and that's what happens when you touch the car. So it's your shoes or clothes. Whether some people more susceptible to static electricity than others, I don't know. I haven't even googled it. But now, then I heard you talking about this stuff, I thought I might. No, we'll try. We'll try and get you an answer. And what do you want to know? How you can stop it. I mean, does it hurt or is it just mildly discomforting? Yeah, she's discomfort. And you know it's gonna happen. And so you now a little bit frightened of your car? You can say that, yeah, but it's not the shoes. It's not the shoes, though, because I keep changing the shoes. I mean, there's no polite way of asking you this. Do you wear a lot of nylon? You know, you say you do maintenance. Are you wearing overalls? Yeah. Are they made of sort of acrylic? Cheap, cheap, cheaper. They're not. They're not cotton? No, no, no, no, no. So you're wearing nylon overalls all day, every day? Um. I don't know. I haven't even chucked the clothes in there. Yeah. It's your nylon overalls, mate. Is it? Yeah, I reckon so. Is that question answered when you. Well, I don't know. Hang on, just let me check a couple other things. When you get your mates to do it. Yeah. Are they wearing their normal clothes or are they wearing nylon overalls as well? They're normal clothes and they don't get an electric shock. And then you. I don't get overalls all the time. No, but you don't get shocked all the time either. Yeah, do get. Every single time. Every single time. Shut up. Like, even shut the front door, which opens outwards. You know what? Funny enough, I start closing the door with my leg now I just push it, because I know if I touch it, you'll go, no, I think it's. I. Again, when you're not wearing your overalls, are you. Are you. Are you wearing a lot of nylon? No, I don't think so. What are your trousers usually made? Nylon normally comes on a socks. And it's. You don't. Do you wear nylon socks? No. I mean, Nyla normally is in the socks. Stockings. No, but everything could be. I bet your overalls are made of night of a man made fiber, I think. But I don't wear them all the time, just sometimes. Yeah. And I keep changing the clothes, like. What's the question again, then? What's the question again? Static. Static? Static. Yeah, that was it, stat. So why do you get a static shot from your car all the time, whatever you're wearing and your friends don't? Yeah, I don't know, mate. Okay, cheers. Well, yeah. Fingers crossed, eh? You all right? When you cross your fingers, you don't get. It's definitely not because you're aries. I don't know, I haven't even. I haven't even come across. Then. Hold that thought. Stay there, don't go away. Stuart's in woking up. Stuart, what have you got? Hello, mate. In fact, I just rang up for a question, but I've also, whilst listening, heard this chap hear this problem with his vehicle and not with his vehicle. Happens with other vehicles. With other vehicles? Him. Is any the problem? It happens. Let me just check. Stay there, Stuart. Zenit. It's not just one car, it's all cars, isn't it? Yeah, he does. It does, yeah, it does with all cars. All cars. Stuart, I thought, was his vehicle. So did I. So did I, mate. But the stories moved on. Stories moved on since you rang in. How does the thing come down to the vehicle being not grounded properly? You've got bad earth in the vehicle and hence why you're getting out. The vehicle, touching the vehicle, mechanical parts, the metal parts. You're now making ground to work and getting the electrical shock every time. But his mates don't get it. Yeah, his mates don't get it. And it happens with other cars as well? Well, it depends, you know, who touches the vehicle first. I mean, entering the vehicle, you're not going to get this, but it's a multiple vehicle issue. There's not a single vehicle issue. Yeah, well, what's to say that multiple vehicles have got pad ground? You think none of his mates get it? It's him, then? He's like followed around by static electricity. I even. I even put them, like. I. Every time I stop the car. Sometimes when I have people in, I stay in and I watch them when they go out and touch the metal part of it, see if they get it. And then I asked him, did you get like a static shock? And he said no. And as soon as I go out myself, I get it. Do you know, I used to get out as soon as you open your vehicle door to get out, you touch the door framework to shut the door and that's when you initially get the shock and that's the first point of contact that you make with the vehicle after it's been energized, it's been charged and now you're making ground to earth. But his mates have already got out and they touched it before me. And they touched it before him. Yeah. Oh, well, like I said, I did initially ring up for a question, but whilst listening to that, that was the only logical theory. That was. We've only got one thing. I don't know if you're up for this. Quite a few people have been in touch. They feel your pain, they share. They share your plight. Stuart, I'm going to bring you back after the travel for your question. It's only, it's only fair, mate, because you. Because you made such a mess of that answer, it's only fair to let you have a question, Stuart. All right, Zen, I think you need to drive naked. Is it? Yeah. Well, I'm going to try that tomorrow then, if that works. And. And it's very important that you moisturize. No, I mean it. You need an all over body lotion. Wear some pants or something because I don't want you getting arrested. And then just see if it happens when you've not got any clothes on. Where do you keep your car? Do you have a garage? No, I keep in my driveway, but, you know, is it quite secluded? Have you got conifers? Have you got tree coverage, hedges? Have you got a hedge? I don't think he's that. No, mate, I'm telling you now, you do it naked, you won't get any electric shocks. Yeah, I see, I see if I can do that, because you let us know. I get to meet other people as well, so I don't know. But make sure you're dressed. Make sure you put your clothes back on when you meet other people. Oh, so that means I have to have a. You have to have a solo, naked drive. You have to have a solo, naked drive and a dress home in the back of my car. So keep an outfit in the back of your car? Yeah. Yeah, that does. But overalls, you can slip in and out of the overalls quite easily. Yeah. Last question. Does your hair stick up on end when it happens? It doesn't, no. All right. And I got no smoke out of my head. We need, we need, we need to crack on. I hope you're all right. It's 1248. Is that the time? We better crack on. We need some answers to some questions. Let's get a question or two on the board first, though, Stuart in Wokingham, I promised you a question, but to be honest, you were so busy teasing Zen there, Stuart, and just sort of mocking him and not allowing him to speak, you may have run out of time to get an answer to your own question. What is it? What is it? Well, what it is, on a nice sunny, sky blue day, you'd see a cast or a shadow of quite a large size just passing past, like. And you, like, you look up and you think, there's not a sky. There's not a cloud in the sky. It's not a bird. What was causing such. Do you know what I mean? It's like no idea at all. But I've no idea what you're talking about, really? On a sunny day, you'd see like a huge shadow sometimes pass across the road, the field, or whatever. And, you know, I gaze up and think, what's caused that awful shadow coming across? Yeah. There's nothing in the sky. There's not a bird, not a cloud, not a plane, nothing. So you wonder yourself. It could be. Well, no, it's a huge sky. You look up, there's nothing in sight at all. And. And the sun's out. And the sun's out. It's a bright, sunny day. Sky blue day. Nothing in the skies that you can see that would have possibly caused that shadow to be cast across the ground. But there obviously is. I mean, I don't. How often does this happen to you? Just say to me. I mean. I mean, if there's a shadow there, then something's caused it. It's not a mystery. It'll be a plane. Or because you're driving along, there's a building. It doesn't have to be in the sky. Could just be a big tree, couldn't it? If the angles right. What you laughing at me for? It could be a big tree. If the angles right. No, you're moving. Yeah, I'm moving. So the tree doesn't have to move. If you're moving, the shadow of the tree moves. No, no, no. You could be sitting stationary traffic, for example, and you just see the car go across the road. That's a plane. You're laying in the field. That's the plane. No, no, honestly. Or it's a cloud. That's too high up for you to see or something? I don't know. It's a silly question. I can't believe. I can't believe that I kept you. I can't believe that I've sort of driven. I'm not going to miss out on other answers because I was being so polite to you. Bob's in Brentwood. Bob, question or answer? Answer briefly, please, to Zen's static problem. I had this years ago and I worked out why it was happening. When Zen gets out of his car, he puts 1ft outside and then he slides across the seat and that's what generates the static. Shut the front door. When he gets. When he gets out of the car, he touches, he might use the key or he might touch the outside of the car and he transfers the charge back to the car. So the way to avoid it is, as you get out of the car, is to actually touch the door, metal part of the door, and then he won't. Any charge that he generates by sliding across the seat will transfer straight into the car slowly. And he needs to touch the metal part of the door before his foot touches the ground. No, he can touch the ground, but as he slides across the seat, he needs to be touching the metal part of the door, not. Not slide and change the metal. Metal body. Got you. Right, we're going to keep in touch with Zen. Bob, I'm going to give you qualifications that used to happen to you. Yes. Round of applause. All right, can we get. Can we get back? I want to keep. I want to catch up with Zen next week, find out if that worked. All right. Peter is in Abingdon. Peter, question or answer? Answer. Come on, Peter. Um, you're 20. Let me just check. I've got this right. Your 20 year old that thought his hangover was worse than a 16 year old. Yeah. Well, the question is, why do hangovers get worse as you get older? Well, scientifically, I'm afraid they don't. Yeah. Unfortunately, every. Every single person listening to this radio program knows that they do. Rob's in Coventry. Rob, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Come on, Rob. Well, short and sweet. It's the tea towel. Go on. Why is a tea towel called a tea towel? Well, I think I picked it up off that victorian Tom thing that used to be on the telly. Yeah. And it's. The mistress of the household used to have a separate towel to clean a silver tea set with. No one else could touch it. She would clean it and it's just carried on from there and it's become a tea towel. Round of applause. Well played. Rob Robbins in Slough. Question or answer? Robin Stuart's inquiry. James, giving the round of applause for the date question. I'll just tell callers to get lost. Sheila Fogarty just watched. She'd never stooped to such amateurish lows. Go on, stewards, inquiry yourself. The Romans didn't invade to stay until after 54 BC, so you couldn't have had a roman date at that time. It's a very good point. That will teach me to steal Christopher Kerr's answer off Twitter and pass it off as my own. Christopher, you made a terrible mistake. I can't believe that I fell for it. What's the correct answer, Robin? The correct answer is, if you were in Gatwick, there would have been a local tribe. I'm not exactly sure which one it is. I think it was the Regni. Yes, probably. And if James was chieftain of the Regnii, then 54 BC would have been the date of him, how long he'd been chieftain. So it would be. Canada was just the rain. It was just the rain. The 17th year of the reign of Seamus, I'd call myself. Actually, I think. I don't think we used Ad until 600 AD. No. So it would just be depending on who the local warlord was. Yes. So, qualifications? Whichever part of the country around qualifications? Oxford. Education. Oh, well, that'll do quickly, Stan. Highgate. Question or answer? Very quickly, Stan. It's an answer on the snow monkey, James. When they get out of the hot water, they shake their self. All the water off their fur. That's how they keep. Well, saw it on a BBC program. Bada bing, bada boom, bada boosh. Round of applause for Stan. I love the idea of someone who only tunes in to catch Sheila Fogarty. And then we wonder for the rest of their life, what on earth? Stan was talking about monkeys getting out of the bath and giving themselves a shake. I included myself in that list. That's absolutely wonderful. Wonderful. Baffled forever. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from ten. But as you may already have worked out, Sheila Fogarty's next.