Why am I 6 foot under?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It's three minutes after twelve and mystery hour is upon us. The only hour of the week where I get a full bed behind my dulcet tones in the opening moments of the of the hour. If you have absolutely no idea what I'm talking about, that's pretty close to making two of us. The number you need to join in the fun and frolics that follow is zero 345-606-0973 I'm slightly distracted. I cannot lie to you. I'm slightly distracted by this headline. 6000 tourists trapped on cruise ship after chinese couple fall ill. More on that, possibly a little later in the afternoon, maybe in the hour, but we must begin with mistrial. And this is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The way it works is this. You ring in with a question, someone else rings in with the answer. Now, what happens in between those two positions is a source of enormous hilarity. Illumination, entertainment and education. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Did I just say numble? What a lovely word number is. It's got a touch of the Uriah heaps to it, hasn't it? Speaking of Uriah Heap, if you haven't been to see the David Copperfield film currently in theaters, cinemas do. Guys, it's just gorgeous. It really is. Yeah. You know, how would you. If you're a Dickens purist, there's a lot to not like about this film. They've cut an enormous amount from the book. Peggotty doesn't get married. Fellow Copperfield fans, they've managed to reduce it down to about 2 hours. I would imagine that if you were to film it in its entirety, properly, with every word almost reflected upon the screen, every word of dialogue, you don't even get. Unless I missed it, you don't even get Mister Micawber's definition of financial happiness, which for me is. I didn't notice any of this until afterwards. And then it was quite rightly pointed out to me by a teenager that none of it mattered because I went to see a film. I didn't go to read a book, I went to see a film. So if the film takes some liberties with the book, it doesn't matter because you're there to see the film, not read the book. You can read the book and then you can watch the film. You can watch the film and then you can read the book. You can read. Watch the film and not read the book. You can read the book and not watch the film. You can watch neither book nor film. But the idea that the film is somehow compromised by not slavishly following every syllable of the book is, I put it to you, ridiculous. And that's not even the scandal. The scandal, the problem. The issue that has been thrown up in Brexit Britain. We're supposed to be talking about the fact that the fellow who plays David Copperfield has brown skin and the woman who plays the woman that David Copperfield eventually falls in love with has brown skin as well. Oh, God forbid. And the mother of the woman with the brown skin who eventually falls in love with David Copperfield. The father. I beg your pardon? The mother's dead. The father is of southeast asian extraction. It's almost as if none of it matters because they're all really good actors working with a brilliant script, telling an amazing story. So go and see it. Mark's in Bristol to kick mystery hour off. Mark, question or answer? Hi, James. Carry on. It's a question. Carry on. I just want to know, if all trees are that important to the world, why are they not all protected? Every single tree. Every single tree. Well, you know, I mean, we can work this out, Mark, can't we? Why? It'd be too hard to implement. And also, you know, some trees are protected. You need permission from the council to chop down some trees. In fact, most. Most trees, actually. I would have thought you're a big tree. All depends on what builder cuts them down. Yeah, well, I mean, this is what I meant by saying we're probably going to end up answering this question ourselves. If you are in Greece, I think it's fair to say that you're not allowed to chop down an olive tree for reasons that I can't entirely remember. Okay, so you know that, so you can do it. But I think that the costs would outweigh the benefits. Is the short. Is the short answer right? Okay. It's like everything else, really. Do you know what the best example of this is? No. I'll tell you. How often do you come up to London? Twice a year. Twice. You. Could you go on the tube? Yes. Do you ever go on the Jubilee line? Yes. Have you got off at one of the stations where the whole platform is like a corridor, like a tunnel? So. So the only bit you can get off the train is where the doors match with the platform and there's no way you could fall under the train? Yes. How many stations do you think that is in place at? I don't know. I don't either. But I can tell you it's not all of them now. Why not all of them? Given that it would save a life demonstrably to have it in place at all stations in every line of the London Underground. And while we're at it, why not stick them all at Birmingham, Nieuw street and Bristol Temples Mead and London news? Why don't they do it? Because it would save lives if they did it. Answer. It would cost too much. Someone somewhere has done a calculation and decided it's not worth the money. So if we were to put protection orders on every tree in the country, we'd probably need 2 million tree officers in place by tea time. Yep, I understand. Possible. And then we'd have to punish everyone for chopping them down and the prisons would be full by breakfast tomorrow. So I'm going to give myself a round of applause. Although your chuckle actually is a more rewarding sound than the applause that's about to follow. But I'm going to add the caveat that I may have got this completely wrong, in which case someone will ring up and pull my pants down shortly. Let's hope so. Thank you very much. Let's hope so indeed. Mark, mind how you go. John's in Dagenham. John, question or answer? Ask question. James. How you doing, mate? I'm all good. What's on your mind? Um, it's a random one obviously, for Mister Al, but is there a point when, when you go to the cinema, if no one turns up, that they turn the film off? If a tree, if a tree falls down in a woods and there's nobody there and there's nobody there to see it, does it make a sound, John? Well, is there someone in the projection room that makes the decision? I don't know. Well, I mean there'd be different answers for different cinemas. A lot of them now are computer programmed. I think we might have had this question before, but I mean, that's not a criticism. That's okay. No, we're allowed to do repetition now. We've been here so long everything's coming back into fashion again. Should see my socks. But I think some of them are automated. Quite a lot of them are automated. There's no way that there's a muggings in every projection booth, in every screen, in every multiplex, is there? Because obviously everyone's looking at ways to save an engine nowadays. Yeah. Is there a cut off point where they think, right enough, we'll cut the film to save. To save on their energy. I. I don't know how much energy it would be using up. Really? Well, it's the film, it's the lighting, it's the staffing. I don't know. I'm not stupid. I know. I know where the electricity goes in a cinema. I'm just questioning how much money you'd save by having someone on. On, on. I'll get you an answer to this, because I've already answered the last one, but I'm 95% sure that in some olden cinemas, and there are still a few, I used to have a regular correspondent. I haven't thought of him for years. He was called John the projectionist. He used to email me. John the projectionist. So they do still exist, but increasingly they'll be in smaller, older cinemas. And the rest, the biggies, the multiplexes, the Westfields and the like, they'll be all computer programmed. But that's not a proper answer to your question. If no one turns up to see a film, do cinemas ever just switch it off? You're on 1211. Tony Kennington. Question or answer? Oh, question. James, at the start of the show, you tutors in the correct pronunciation of the letter h. Yes, I did. And spelt it five letters. A I t c h. Damn right. The other 27 letters got a spelling 25. Oh, sorry, 25. 27. EU member states that we have surrendered on that freedom of movement. So. Well, that misses out Switzerland and Liechtenstein and all the other countries that we're going to need all sorts of hoops to jump through before we can visit them come January 2021. But we're not talking about that yet, Tony. We're celebrating. Other than the single letter that. Well, let's go through them. Let's get w. How do you spell that, then? How do you spell w? Yeah, well, it starts with d. Oh, does it? Well, yes, because my friend Scott Balcony pointed out that if we followed the logic of objecting to the h that you could just kind of nodded towards, then we'd have to call a w or wobble. Uh. Oh, yeah. O. What about all. No, not o. Not o, Tony. O starts with o. W starts with d. H starts with a? Yes. A b. C. C. D E. Now, well, I've given you an answer. You said, are there any other letters? And I said, yes, w. I wanted a few more. I don't care. You should have said so. Are there any other letters? So the answer is yes. And then you say, give me an example to prove the affirmative nature of your statement and I say w and you say, blimey, you're good, James. Thank you ever so much. Have a marvellous afternoon, governor. You're brilliant, governor. Round of applause for me. And actually give Scott one as well, because I wouldn't have had that at my fingertips if I hadn't seen him being hilarious on Twitter earlier. That's Scott, of course, the t shirt king of Uxbridge, soon to be a non award winning podcaster. Oh, and speaking of non award winning podcasters, actually, am I an award winning podcast? We already won one award. Did we win that? We did, didn't we? Just didn't go to the ceremony. Should have gone to the ceremony. I was busy that night. Everybody else went. I was the. I won the award. Everybody else went to the ceremony and got mullered on expenses. Outrageous behaviour. I was at home looking after the kids. But I'm up for. But I'm up for another one. Anyway, needless to say, showering. Showering with awards at the moment. And you can vote for me. I know that you want to. In fact, you're not allowed to listen to this program anymore unless you vote for me to win best podcast at the global awards. Now I'm waiting. All you need to do is go to LBC dot co dot UK comma, or go to the global app or Google Global Awards. Get yourself in there and vote for full disclosure with James O'Brien as the best podcast. I'm not going to lie to you, I'm not sure it's the best when I look at the competition. I'm up for a book award next week as well, and there are three nominations in my category, so I'm thinking that I probably deserve to come third. You've actually met both of the authors of the other books in the category that I think I'm up for the non parliamentarian political book of the year award, which is from the House of Commons or. No, the whole house is a parliament. I think the Lords get to vote as well. So I'm up for that. And I don't deserve it because my publisher is going to kill me when I say this, because I think Caroline Criado Perez's book is better than mine. But, you know, don't let that put you off if you've got a vote. As for the podcast, there's loads of them, so I'm not going to list the ones that might be better than mine. I'm just going to say you're not allowed to listen to this program until you voted for my podcast. So I'm going to wait. I'll give you the commercial break to do it. All right? And if, when we come back, you haven't voted for my podcast, you won't be able to hear me because we got this Google thing now and we can work out what you've done. And also no reports of the protests in France. What? It's all under control. You can also vote. I'll tell you what the producer's written on my screen. She's written, you can nominate anything you like for the LBC award. So you could nominate Keith for services to programming, which is her falsely modest way of saying, you could nominate me for brilliant producing. To which my response would be, yeah. Yeah, you could. LBC mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three, four, five, six, zero six, zero, nine, seven, three. Eighteen minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour with me, James O'Brien. Ben's in Brighton. Ben, question or answer? Question for you, James. Well, not for me. Well, actually, I say that I can't help myself. You've been mopping it. You've been mopping them up yourself this morning. You're getting all the applause. They all get taken away from me later, but still I'm hanging on to them. You just knock them down. Exactly that. What have you got? Okay, why do we cross our legs? If you've got a room full of people sitting in chairs, a good number of them will have one leg thrown across the other one. And it just seems like based on the. I don't say the design of the body, but the layout of the body would suggest that you want to sit like, straight with your weight distributed evenly on both sides. And when you, when you cross your legs, you're sort of twisting your body and making it contorted in a weird way. Do you know? And I'm just wondering, why do we do it? It's a lovely question. Why is that? Why is that more comfortable? It should be less comfortable. Well, yeah, you may have just answered it because the question of why we do it, the answer is because it's more comfortable. Okay. Yeah, but so what? Why is that somehow more comfortable rather than. Rather than being evenly. Not everybody does it either. There's a little clip and me on the Twitter at the moment in a studio that's not my own and I look like Gollum. I'm undergoing so many contortions. At one point I forget that I'm not sitting in my usual chair. So I lean back to nonchalantly throw my arm over where my studio chair usually is, and there's nothing there, so I end up. I think I got away with it, Ben. I think I styled it out, but I use myself as a case study in someone who sort of almost ties himself into a human knot sometimes, because it feels more comfortable to me and I've got no idea why. Yeah. Like, you just think, looking. Looking at the way our body is, that we would just sit straight and that would be the most comfortable. You know who really sits straight all the time? Jacob wis Mogg. No. You saw him on the front bench in the House of Commons. He's practically supine. Absolutely no ballet dancers. Oh, yeah. Good posture. Ballet. Yeah. And now if that. Presumably, if we all sat like that, we'd all be in a slightly better place posture wise. But we don't. And we want to know why. We do. Ben, you're on. I shall do my damnedest to find out for you. Why do we cross our legs and don't ring in with the manspreading one? We'll try and do that next week. But every now and then, you do come across somebody on public transport of a male persuasion with their legs so far apart that you wonder whether they've actually got a sort of invisible broomstick wedged between their kneecaps. It's quite incredible. I sat next to a bloke yesterday, and because I'm a bit of an idiot, there's always a little bit of me that wonders whether he's. Is he. Is he emasculating me? Is he undermining my masculinity in some way by stretching out? So what do you do? Do you. Do you push back against that? What do women do? God knows. You've got sunbloat with his legs. I mean, so far apart, it's almost comical. Usually wearing jogging bottoms, for reasons that I have absolutely no understanding of. Usually wearing jogging bottoms and trainers. What? What's wrong with saying jogging bottoms? No, apparently not. Apparently, it's men in suits as well. But remember, I never catch the tube. Dura. Well, I do. I come in in the morning, I'm always standing up. I never get a seat. There's no room to man spread on my morning train. And the train I get home, there's no people in suits on it. So apparently men in suits do it as well. But they're always men with Mark. Should we do an hour on that tomorrow? Yeah, it'd be a good way of marking Brexit day. Liam's in Sheffield. Liam, question or answer? Answer, mate. All right. In your own time? I work in the cinema and I can confirm that we do indeed turn off the projections when the screens are empty. What sort of cinema do you work in? I work in an odeon in the middle of town. It's fairly busy most of the time, so we don't usually have to turn them off, but when on a sort of like a Monday, we do turn them off if there's no one in there, because the lenses are very expensive, they cost quite a lot of money, so to save them from breaking, we just turn them off. I like it. And what do I need to ask you? There's something I need to ask you, and I've completely slipped my mind. It's a masterclass in professionalism, this. Oh, yeah. Do you have human projectionists in the. In the. In the boxes? No. No. So it's all computerized now. Does it all foyer? We have got an old projector. Projector right at the top of cinema, which is huge. And does it turn off manually or does the computer calculate that they haven't sold any tickets in screen three? And therefore. Yeah, that's something we. We just. If there's no one in there, we just. We'll have a look see. There's no tickets sold and we'll just tell the manager and they'll turn it off. Have you ever done it by accident? Because you. Funnily enough, talking about posture and manspreading. I sit so low in a cinema seat that you could quite easily miss me. Imagine sitting there and they turn it off. Well, I have accidentally turned off the sound in a wrong stream once at the end of the night, while the film was still playing. That didn't go down too well. That went down a storm. Do you want the good news or the bad news? Give me the good news. You've got a round of applause. Oh, thank you. Bad news is, this is not a definitive answer, which I knew was going to happen, because that's a sort of cinema by cinema decision, from what I can gather, or even a chain by chain decision. So just because you do it doesn't mean there isn't a cinema around the corner that doesn't do it. Sure. In Cardiff, for example. I've lost you now. All right, Anthony is in Cardiff. Anthony, what can I do for you? Yeah, I worked in a cinema about 15 years ago. I had the same conversation with a manager of mine back then. Yes. And he actually said to me, because we are contracted to actually show the film, certain amount of times, it has to be shown, even if no one's there and there's the other answer, which completely contradicts the first one, but is also accurate and evidence based. So I have to give you a. Unless something's changed in the last 15 years. Back to Liam in Sheffield. Hang on, hang on. This is big, mate. This is big. Liam. Hello. What about the contractual obligation to screen the film a certain number of times? Well, there's not something that I wouldn't know too much about because I'm just a cinema host. I just sell the tickets and take people to their screens. That would probably be down to the manager's decision. Very good answer. Have you ever thought about a career in politics? Well, funnily enough, I have, when I was about ten years old. Got my vote, mate. Seriously. So it's possible that since. Because Anthony worked in a cinema 15 years ago and they would never turn it off, it's possible something has changed in that interim? Well, I'm guessing it's just because there's just no if. It's. We've offered the screening, so I don't see why. If no one's turned off, then I suppose one's going to know. Yeah. That's where we're back to the tree falls down in the forest. So I need to give Anthony a quick round of applause. Anthony, good work. Thank you. Liam's already had his, but still the question hangs over us all. If a tree falls down in a forest and there's no one there to hear it, does it make a sound? Do not ring in to answer that question. Or indeed the question of, if my peacock laid an egg in your garden, who would it belong to? Zero 345-606-0973 so did we go? Well, I put trees on the list. I think we went definitively. I certainly help myself to a round of applause. Why do we cross our legs? He says with his legs crossed. That's a nice question. Claire's in Sudbury. Claire, question or answer a question? Carry on. I like you. Oh, that's so sweet. Thank you. And I always wonder, when you're in the supermarket, you see all the goose fat, so I just need to finish your sentence there because I interrupted her. You were going to say, I like you. Really enjoy a goose fat cooked roast potato. I just love geese. Yeah, well, yeah, but that you were going somewhere else. There wasn't a full stop after I like you, was there? There was a comma after the I and the U, so it was. I like you. I like. I hear you on the radio. You love goose. There you go. You see? Yes, exactly. Well, what do you mean? Where does the rest of the goose go? Where does the rest of the goose go? When you're in the supermarket, they sell it in jars and I don't see any other product that contains goose meat. Does that make sense? Yeah, it does. You know, it's a terribly unprofessional thing to admit, but I was just trying to work out the joke that Keith just barked in my ear. You said, where does the goose go? Do you know what he said? South. Don't laugh. No, it's not funny. You don't have to be polite. It's only Keith. It's only my jokes you have to laugh at, even if they're not funny. So. Yeah, I'm just trying to think. So. Normally it would be pet food or something like that, but that seems like a terrible waste of a goose. It does, yes. All right, you're on. Where does all the goose go? Where does all the goose go that is cooked to make the goose fat that you can buy in the shops to cook. Everything's nice in goose. No, it's a tough one, but you clearly. Have you got any children? Do you mind me asking? Yes, but they're growing up. Any vegetarians? No. No, we are meat eaters. You see, that's the problem now, is that mine is getting so scorched about it that even the roast potatoes are sacrosanct, getting hit with the vegetarianism. And I'm not one of those people that would deliberately cook them in goose fat and pretend I'd cooked them in olive oil. I no longer use goose fat, but there we go. It's a nice question, Matt, where does all the goose go? Zero. 345-606-0973 Simon is in Orpington. Simon, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on, Simon. The crossing of the legs. Oh, yes. It's to cover delicate parts in kind of, say, socially difficult or challenging situations, in the same way that men tend to be more hands in pockets and women are arm crossers. Seriously, it's covering up those bits which you would literally want covered. So manspreading then becomes a subconscious way of saying, come and have a go if you think you're hard enough. Here's my delicate parts. Here's my delicate hands behind head and elbow waving. That's very aggressive as well. Yeah, that's quite aggressive. It's not always aggressive. I do it when I've just zinged someone and I'm sitting back smugly. That's when I do it. I'm not doing it in the same way. You know, look at me. It's the kind of world doing it now, whereas crossing your arms is the total opposite. It's coverage and hands in pockets. So what I would do in the course of a viral clip, when I humiliate and dismantle some misinformed Brexiter, I'd be all like this, all contorted and twisted, as we slowly dismantle his ludicrous position. And then as I administer the death blows and he starts squealing, I would sit back, legs akimbo, with my hands behind my head, and he'd be sitting there, legs crossed, arms folded in the chair. Well, he wouldn't, because normally they don't realize just how roundly they've been humiliated. He'd be sitting there waving his little flag and singing Jerusalem or something. But that's all by the bye, and we're all going to be friends come Saturday morning. In the meantime, qualifications, please. I did a sales course many years ago and we were talking about body language and it fascinated me then, and it still rings true today. And it's wonderful to watch sometimes how natural people do things without really, and don't know with them and don't know, and you just watch face and it's incredible. That's a beautiful body. Mirroring is magnificent. If you watch two people here in what's called rapport, yes, standing at a bar, they have the same leg crossed over the same arm. I did this at the same time. And really. So, I mean, you take people watching to the next level really well, I've used it in time. I'm now a driving instructor. I've used it in sales jobs in my life. In my life and in teaching. It's important that you understand how people communicate so it can be really useful and quite powerful in certain situations. Do you know, it's a funny thing you say that, because I've just remembered many, many moons ago, I'm quite good friends with him now, but I used to find myself being booked quite often to argue with Alistair Campbell about press regulation. And there's a show, a big show, I can't remember what it was and I never watched stuff back. I think my dad must have still been alive and he said, watch that back, son, and look what happened. And at one point, Alistair Campbell has been particularly tough and robust. There's two people sat between us, there's four of us on the panel, on the stage, on the tv stage, two people sat in between me and him. So we're like the bookends at either end and he adopts quite an aggressive pose. Sitting. And I, without realizing it, completely copied it. There you go. And that would be. That's like locking antlers. Yeah. Or something like that. Well, I never. It's wonderful to watch. Well, it was all right. It was. You know, I don't do them anymore because they get so repetitive and boring and you never know who you might end up sitting next to in the green room. But, yeah. Thanks for the compliment. Round of applause for Simon. Holly Harris is here with the headline mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Top answer on the leg crossing, wasn't it? Didn't you think, as a thing of beauty that. Well done, Simon. I think we're fairly clear on cinemas trees. What else is there? Just let me do something I should have done during the break. I do it live on the radio because I'm such a maverick. What else have we got, Keith, where's Goose gone? What? Goose, man. He's done it again. He said in my ear, I suppose, to decipher that, am I? Seriously, I hope you're getting a refund for your elocution lessons. Where did the goose go? So you can buy goose fat in various shops? Thank you. I hope you're writing this down. And what we need to know now is, where does the rest of the goose go? Given that there isn't a great demand for goose, except occasionally at Christmas, unless you're a bob cratchit. And then. Yeah, good question. Brenda is in Abbot Langley. Brenda, question or answer? Question? Carry on. Is there a reason why we nod our heads for yes and shake them for no? Is it universal or are there cultures where the opposite applies? Now, you're only allowed one question, unfortunately. Okay, so how are we going to. How are we going to narrow it down? Down, then? Is there a reason why we nod our heads for yes and shake them for no? I wouldn't have chosen that question. Out of the three I'd have chosen. Do they do it the other way around anywhere. Okay, well, shall I change? Well, let's have a think. Do they do it the other way around in other cultures? I'm going to answer this question by using a head based gesture. Are you ready? Yes. Oh, I think I picked that up. There you go. So did we all do it? I'm going to answer this question with a head based gesture. Are you ready? No. This time I don't think I'll be able to pick it up. Oh, this is awkward. I'll tell you what I'll do it really vigorously. How about I touch my nose to the microphone while I do it? And you'll be able to tell from the contact that my nose makes with the microphone muff what direction your head's turning. Correct. Brenda. I knew you'd understand. Are you ready? Yes. What was the question again? Does everybody nod their head for yes and shake them for no? Are you ready? Yeah. What do you think that was? A shake or a nod? I think it was a shake. Correct. There is. I can't remember where it is, but there's definitely somewhere in the world where they nod their head for no and shake their head for yes. Right. Thank you. You're welcome. Where is it again? Do we know where it is? Somewhere like that. Thank you very much, Brenda. Mark is in Woking. I hope I've got that right. I mean, no one asked me what my qualifications are. Question around to Mark. Yes. Hello there. My question is, who was the first person to make up the word Brexit? Are you joking? No. Do you know what I said to Ava during the last break? What? I said, see if a chap called Peter Wilding is available to talk to us tomorrow. And she said, why? And I said, I think he's the bloke that invented the word Brexit. Really? All right. Because, I mean, it's worldwide. Everyone uses it. But there must have been. No, there is. I've already answered it. It's a bloke called Peter Wilding, who was head of an organization, a british trade organization or something like that. I'll double check. But that's his name. All right, well, you've answered the question, but this is quite weird. You know when people say, you're not busy, are you, Mark, you've got a minute? I pulled over on the roadside. I won't keep you unduly. He was chairman of british influence. Still is, I think. A specialist in EU law. Goes by the name of Peter Wilding, and he coined the word Brexit. In fact, I think there might be an article about him in the Daily Express today or yesterday, because I saw it on his own Twitter account. He also wrote a best selling book called what next? So, I mean, that's all there. But the reason that I was interested in chatting for a little longer was because I wanted to know whether you thought the person who coined the word would have been pro or anti Brexit. I don't know. No. I don't know the person. Nor do I. I just wondered whether, in our collective consciousness, we'd associate the word with people that thought it was a good idea or people who were right. And on this occasion, it was someone who was right. Peter Wilding. But that's weird, you know when people tell you that they think they're being spied on by their technology, when they say something like, it's really odd. I didn't google it, but I mentioned to my husband last night that we needed some new roller blinds for the windows. And then I went on Facebook this morning and it was. It was full of roller blind adverts. I don't giggle, but I think there might be a little bit more to this than originally meets the eye. Although it's not going to be a conspiracy. On the scale of the massive news blackout that was all been ordered to observe regarding the protests in France, where firefighters yesterday were protesting quite passionately against, I think, pension reform. But I've done two things today. The first thing I did was say to the producer, step change is a really good debt management charity. And I said it off air. Right off air. Guess which Twitter account followed me most recently? Yeah, step change on air. And then, I swear to you, on my oath, I said to Ava in the last break, see if you can get hold of this chap. He invented the word Brexit. He'd be quite a good person to talk to tomorrow. And then out comes Mark, like a sort of human huawei, harvesting my data and using it to tempt me into his web of intrigue. Bradley's in Gillingham. Bradley, question or answer? Hi, James. I got a question. I want to know. Why do we talk in our sleep? Right, yeah. The other night, apparently I was peeling potatoes on a bus, right? That's nothing at all to do with my job. But my uncle's a builder. My aunt, he says that when he's asleep, he builds, like, a couple of bungalows in his sleep. Oh, yeah. That's not a figure of speech for your auntie and your uncle getting Jiggy, is it? No, no. Apparently he goes through the whole process. It doesn't say to him, what's your uncle's name, Alan? She doesn't say. Oh, yeah. Alan, do you fancy building some bungalows tonight? Come, step this way. Sorry. It was utterly inappropriate. I do apologize. Well, it's just. It's an extension of dreaming, that's all. So, I mean, go on. Why would I peel potatoes on a bus, then? I mean, I can't do dream analysis, Bradley. I can simply do big picture explanations as to why you talk in your sleep. Well, have a go at why you were peeling potatoes on a bus. Why? I think. How's your love life? Brilliant. Is it? Yeah. I've got a daughter called Ava, a son called Tyler, a 15 month old called Harley, and went on the way. Well, yeah. I mean, that's not necessarily proof of the pudding, but I can see that it's compelling evidence to the positive. So the reason why you are peeling potatoes on the bar is because you're worried about having enough money to buy food to feed the new arrival? No. Excuse me. Yes. Why is my uncle putting bungalows in his sleep, then? Well, that is because Alan is terrified of stairs. Oh, my God. No, stop it. All right. It's there. Why do we talk in our sleep? I'll see why. But I can't. I can't do building bungalows, mate. I'm only human. No, I'll do the talking. Do you talk in your sleep, James? Who wants to know? Not much, actually. I have done in the past. I think everybody has done in the past, but I'm not. I'm not. See, when you go to boarding school, you share a bedroom with 20 other lads. So snoring and sleep talking becomes something you become very consciously aware of very early. And ideally, given that, what would often happen to people who snored a lot was they'd be woken up after a while. I think the first couple of times you did it, you might have got a shaken shoulder and a kind of. Mate, mate, you're snoring. Stop it. But if you're doing it repeatedly throughout the evening, or indeed the term, then we all had to join the army at my school. It's a very strange place. So we all had under our beds or within easy reach. We had, like, army boots. And if you start. Wonder if you. Yeah, sorry, stop. Stop. You there. I just wanted you to do, like, a talk show in your sleep or something. I think I probably should start. We could do it as a podcast. Let's get Bradley an answer. Anyway, to conclude the anecdote that Bradley was gloriously uninterested in, you would be woken up by having an army boot. What are they called? Not called army boots. There's a proper word for them. No army, but no. Anyway, you'd get what? You'd get about six landing on your bed if you were snoring. And occasionally one of them could land on your head. Very luckily, snoring was not one of my vices back in the day. Let's get Bradley an answer. Why do we talk in our sleep? It's 1245 coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty self harm by prisoners. Burnout among prison officers, both soaring. The government sends strong messages on longer prison sentences, but can prisons cope? Sheila Fogarty on LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien 1248 is the time. Just a little update for you about something I suggested might be the case. Earlier in the program, the gentleman whose Twitter exchange with Alistair Stewart was reported to have been the source of his sacking or resignation from ITN has broken cover. And it is. If you are kind enough to follow me on Twitter precisely as we suggested, there is rather more to it than a single shakespeare quote referencing an ape. Funny that, isn't it? Just showing some snark to the producer who thought we should have done it as a phone in topic today. Here's that's a joke, by the way. No, nobody thought we should have done it as a phone in topic. Here's the issue. Thank you to those who have been in touch in the last few days about Alistair Stewart. I apologise for not getting back to media inquiries more quickly. In particular, I'm not planning to make on or off the record comments beyond the statement below and a few clarifying tweets. Insofar as Mister Stewart caused hurt and upset, intentionally or otherwise, in an exchange earlier this month, there is a wider context. There it is, the c word. There was not a single post, as has been widely reported, but several posts written by Mister Stewart, which have all now been deleted. I understand that Mister Stewart has acknowledged the words he used were misjudged and has expressed regret at what happened. I thank him for that. No one is perfect. We are all human and we all need to learn from our experiences and mistakes and try to be better people in the wake of them. An apology and commitment to be more careful about language was all that I would have asked. It is regrettable that he has decided to stand down, and I take no pleasure in that. He has evidently gone through an ITN and ITV process and I respect his choice. Civil and political discourse has become far too vicious in the last five years. I would ask that we try to treat each other with a little more respect, kindness and understanding. In that spirit, I consider this matter closed and I wish Mister Stewart the best in his future endeavours. Whether or not that is the end of the issue, we will have to wait and see. And the gentleman who is at the centre of this story has taken the step of removing all of his Twitter posts after becoming the target for a torrent of abuse. And then provide some examples, not only of that, but also of racist abuse directed at other people of colour in the public spotlight. He adds, my personal view is that a private apology would have been more than sufficient to draw a line under this. I am not in saying this second guessing. The decision arrived at. So there you go. I just thought you'd want to know the facts. 1250. Because I'm funny like that. 1251 is the time and mystery hour is upon us. Marty's in Belfast. Question or answer, Marty? Good afternoon, James. It's a question. Way back in the day, 1986, at Wimbledon, they changed the color of the tennis balls from white to yellow. Well, Steve Allen told me that. Well, not just me. He mentioned it on a show some stage last week. My question is, why did they change from white to yellow? I think the yellow ones came in, in the early seventies. I mean, I love Steve like a sort of eccentric uncle, but I don't know that he's got this one right, has he? I think they were always. I mean, I was born in the. In the year that I think they were introduced and, um, I. They've always been green, haven't they? No. No. God, no. No. 1986? No. I should have known. I should have known. Never questioned Steve Allen. He's always right. He's like my wife. Why did they change the color from white to yellow? Color television becoming more commonplace. No. I'm even older than you and I remember watching Wimbledon in color. Yeah, no, I know, but not everybody had. Not. Not everybody had a color test that. No, I bet you a hundred quid that's the one. Maybe not 100 quid. I bet you a pint that's the reason for color tv. Yeah. Qualifications. Genius. Yeah, but he could. Where's your evidence to substantiate such a charge? Ah, well, it's funny you should say that. Mister Philip of Occam has just come into the studio with his famous razor. Okay? And I'm using it. And that's how I got the answer. Dear, dear, dear James. It's just such an embarrassment. That was nearly as bad an answer as your answer to the reading dreams. Yeah, well, that was all true as well. I think I'm right. But I cannot prove it. So I shall leave it on the board until someone who has got a better qualification than my deployment of Occam's razor comes to the table with the correct solution. But I bet you it's color tv becoming so popular that it was harder to track the white ball on a color screen. Okay, all right. You're on with your bet for a pint. All right, well, we'll see that it's there. Thank you, Marty. Take it easy. 1254, Simon's in Leeds. Question or answer? Answer. Bring it nice to toddy again. Geese. Goose. Geese. Yeah. Not all geese are bred for food. You won't like the answer to this, but I know you've spoken about it before. Some geese are bread for foie gras. In fact, a lot of geese are bread for foie gras. But, you know, I've gone off foie gras. I know, I know. You've mentioned it before. Well, no, I got so much abuse from the bloke who used to be in ever decreasing circles for saying that I like foie gras. I got bombarded with Twitter. I mean, back in the days when Twitter abuse wasn't a sort of permanent state of affairs, this was an astonishing intervention. But hearing you say it in a classic Leeds accent, it adds a new dimension to the worst. We eat a lot of fragrant Yorkshire, you know, especially with Yorkshire pudding. But anyway, yeah, a lot of geese are bred for flag there. Now, the thing is, we geese that when they've gone past their use by day, if you like. Yeah, the goose. The geese are quite old. Yeah. So then the roasted and the fat's obviously saved, because the fat, in actual fact, is worth more than the goose meat. Oh, that, you're right. That is sad. So they chuck away the goose they take, because I think people who aren't familiar with cooking a goose need to understand it creates an astonishing amount of fat. Well, especially the ones used for flag there. Yeah. Because they're absolutely yield you these things when. So anyone. Oh, mate, this is putting a cat among the geese. Anyone who enjoys goose fat, Yorkshire puddings or goose fat roast potatoes, could be unwittingly supporting the foie gras industry. Well, not only that, they could also support in the feather industry, because they're also used. A lot of geese are used for feathers, for, you know, these. That's less worrying. There's not going to be any people listening to this who aren't vegetarians, but who are repulsed by foie gras, who were going to be upset about the idea of feathers. It's the foie gras that is giving them. Well, you know, you know exactly how fiegr. Well, let's not go down that hole. No, no, not today. Well, I know some of the. Some of the production processes. What are your qualifications? Well, I actually. You all like this is. I actually shoot geese. You don't know me at all. Why would I not like that? Well, because some people, you know, it's like we feel sports these days. Not everybody likes to put me in that category, are you? I think, foie gras. I can't be objecting to you shooting a goose. No. Well, I have two lovely geeks at Christmas that I actually shot myself, so. We had goose at Christmas as well. Yeah, yeah. But you didn't shoot yours. I did. How do you know you've got somebody else to shoot it for you? I didn't. I just crept up on it. Yeah, whatever. So how much goose fat? I mean, for every jar of goose fat there is, I mean, a 10th of a dead goose. And you. You think that the massive majority of those dead geese will have sort of just reached the end of their natural life? Yeah. Well, that's what happens, you know, and then they just chuck the meat away. Well, yeah, I mean, same. We chickens for eggs, isn't it? You know, they don't eat the chicken that lays the egg. They just. Yeah, but they don't do anything with the carcass. Well, it probably goes in the dog food, pet food, whatever. I'm going to give you a round of applause. What's the biggest thing you've ever shot? The biggest? Well, a goose. Oh. Oh, wow. They are quite big. No, I know. I know they are. That's why I asked if you'd ever shot anything. But unlikely, actually, in Britain to be allowed to shoot anything bigger than a goose. Yeah, well, there are many wild birds that are bigger than goose. Do you want to know something? Sheila Fogarty's coming to the studio and she's nodding furiously that you are. What are you allowed to shoot that's bigger than a goose? Stag? Of course you can. I didn't say bird, to be fair, Simon, I said thing. I said, what's the biggest thing you've ever shot? Yeah. Red deer. I've never shot a red deer, but red deer is the biggest thing that can shoot in UK. Beautiful. A round of applause. Did we give. We gave him a round of applause. Well, you can give me another. I will, yeah, I will mind. There you go. Simon, Billy's in Southampton. Quickly, if you would, Bill. Answer to the nodding and shaking of the head. Has it got a womble connection? Your answer, it has got a womble collection connection. It's obviously Bulgaria that nod for no and shake the head for yes, which is confusing when you ask about for a drink in a restaurant. I didn't. I didn't know it was Bulgaria. I thought it was further afield than that. I thought it was Bulgaria. Well, there you go. So, you know, bulgarian people moving here must have a couple of hairy experiences before they realize they're going to have to change their ways. Possibly. Do you know, I think that's why so many people voted for Brexit. All the Bulgaria, all the Bulgarians coming over, shaking their head for yes and nodding it for no. Round of applause for Billy. What a lovely show. Thank you. I was in one of those moods. Thank you for keeping me company and even, on occasion, indulging me. Should we do it all again tomorrow morning from ten? Oh, go on, then. Here's Sheila. Thank you, James. Has a payday loan left you in dire straits? People owed compensation learned today that they will get a tiny fraction of it. Are you one of those people? Self harm by prisoners has hit a record high, with more than seven incidents every hour of every day. Official figures are showing, you know that lately the new conservative government has been talking about making prisoners spend more time inside prisons. Well, prison experts say overcrowding, lack of time outside cells, the surge in the use of strong synthetic drugs such as spice, increasing mental ill health, mean that something has to be done before that can be the case. No surprise either that prison officers are suffering burnout. Can prisons deliver? Can prisons cope? On your radio, on global player and play LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.