Why did my water freeze?

It's three minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour begins. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available to you anywhere else on your radio. And indeed, it comes with two promises. Guarantees. You could call them pledges, cast iron guarantees. By 01:00 today, you will know more than you do now. It may not be knowledge that you're particularly grateful for, may not be knowledge that you're able to put to any use whatsoever in the future, but it will, however, be knowledge, and you will have more of it by 01:00 than you do now. The other pledge I routinely make at this point in proceedings every week, is that you will probably have a laugh. Not probably, it's a guarantee you will laugh out loud between now and 01:00. Whether it's something I've done intentionally or not, time will tell. If you are not familiar with this feature, you should know two things. The first is that it's by far the in terms of the switchboard and the phone, by far the most popular hour of the week on LBC. Which means that when you hear me say the number, you've really got to hit redial quick, otherwise you'll never get through. Some people manage to get through on a regular basis, but routinely there's probably a couple of thousand people every week who don't get through, so don't take it personally if you fail. If you do get through, then there are two things you need to know if you really want to get your question on air. The first is that it ideally won't be repetitious. I grant you that there's no way you can know whether or not the question's been asked before. You can have a look at the archive at LBC dot co dot UK comma, but we'll try to remember. And the second is dullness, dullness, dullness, dullness. Because if it is a question to which nobody else is going to be interested in the answer, then we probably won't put it on for reasons that I don't think need explaining, do they? The only rule of mystery hour is that you're not allowed. If you're going to answer a question that somebody else asks, nobody is allowed to look anything up. Last week I forgot to tell you this. It was an appalling moment in mystery hour's history. I completely forgot to tell you. The only rule there is we've got so many people discovering LBC, discovering this show and mystery hour in particular. For the first time I presumed. I forgot to tell you. There also one fellow rang in. I said, what are your qualifications for answering that question? So I just googled it. James, cool as you like. And there, in a nutshell, was why we don't allow googling or indeed employment of any other search engine or work of reference. Otherwise there'd be no mystery. This is, if you will, a celebration of good old fashioned values like education and enlightenment. The accrument of knowledge. Is accrument a word? Well, it is now, and that's what we like about it, in that we get to show off stuff we know. Okay? And I don't care how you know it. When I ask what your qualifications are, you're perfectly entitled to say, I saw it on the Discovery Channel last week. But you might say, as our most regular contributor does. Oh, I happen to be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. There are a myriad of ways in which you might have arrived at the knowledge that you can furnish us with on mystery out. I think that's it, isn't it? Number remains the same. If you're new to it, you'll work out pretty quickly how things unfold. And if you hear somebody ask a question to which you do know the answer, then please ring. It's so much more fun when you do. Marie is in Finchley to kick us off this week. Question or answer, Marie. It's a question. Carry on. So why is it the newborn babies, some of them will stay absolutely still, they won't move. And some of them are constantly kicking around. It's like they're excited, but they're not completely responsive to them outside world yet. So it's not like they're excited, but they're just continuously, like, kicking around, moving around. They just don't keep still. Are you. Are you in this zone at the moment? Yeah, I'm a mother of a four month old baby who. Have you got a kicker or have you got a kicker or. Well, I mean, look around, Marie. I don't know. I can't believe I'm doing this so early on in the week. I'm about to stop pretending I know the answer to this, but I think I mind. Don't you see it with adults as well? Some of us are fidgeting all the time. Some of us can't sit still, and some of us can. But isn't that due to nervousness? No, no, I got restless leg syndrome. Okay, but do you think my biggest syndrome, then? No, I can't. Oh, God. I don't think anything of the sort. I just think some people sit still and some people don't. Have a look at any group of people. Some of them will be fidgeting and some of them won't. You've got a fidgeter. It's good. It's a sign of a creative mind, really. Do you think there's something else you're looking for? Another explanation? What else could there be? I don't know. I'm not really convinced by that. What you got, baby brain? Have you asked the health visitor? No, I haven't, actually. I can't. I can't see. Whatever answer you'd be expecting, I put it on the board. Why do some newborn babies fidget a lot and others don't? Yeah, yeah, but how can you say that you don't like. My answer is the same with four months old 40 year olds. I just feel like I asked people and it's like. Well, it's just like. Just because the comparison to adults. Well, that's it. That should be the end of the conversation. It's such a powerful comparison. Believe you're still talking to me. Okay. If you can't find a natural explanation by the end of an hour, you can give yourself. Doesn't work like that, mate. No, no, no, no, it does not work like that. If you can't suggest an answer that might be even more impressive than mine, but we don't yet know is true, then we take mine. It's Occam's razor. It's O'Brien's razor. Once you've eliminated the impossible. No, the most. The most plausible available answer is almost always the correct one. All right, I'll leave it. Fine. I get. No, I'm not going to argue with you. Okay, fine. Thank you. No, you're welcome. Absolutely fine. It's not like I invented mystery air and keep it alive every week through the own sheer effort of will on my past. Fine. You'd be ungrateful. John's input. Talbot. John. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. I thought of this the other day and I haven't got clear how it came into my mind, but why do chickens lay eggs every day and no other birds do? Well, we've bred them that way. Well, how. How do they lay eggs every single day? And it doesn't have to be battery where the lights come on. They just do. Every single day. I know. They'll knock one out. One. One per chicken per day. Generally, if they're healthy and not. Not too old and or traumatized, but we've. We've bred them to do that, but they don't understand how it's, um. What it's like, um. I don't know how it would have. How can you please. Or something to do. You know what? I'm with you on this. No, I'm actually on your side. I think I've chucked in a glib, throwaway answer and it doesn't necessarily stand up to scrutiny. I'm pretty sure that it is going to be pretty close to what I've said, but I can't tell you how. So, frankly, with you and with the last caller, John, you're too polite to say so, but it's time I shut up a bit, isn't it? Well, no, it's not. And it could well be the right answer, which you've given me, which. But I can't back it up with anything, Johnny. I can't back it up, man. I'm just blowing smoke at you now. I've got nothing. I've got nothing. Somebody out there will be able to tell us. Yes, me too. Okay. Why do chickens lay an egg a day? And why do some newborn babies move around more than others? I'm with you. I'm with everyone thinking I'm talking too much. Ten minutes after twelve is the time Mark is in Macclesfield. Mark. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. The advertisers that come onto the radio stations and tvs, they often use stories these days. I just wanted to know whether those stories are always real life. Are they always true? I think if it's not, they'd have to say so. Are you thinking of any adverts in particular? Well, there's one. Banks tend to use them. Don't leave customers that are going through a particular situation. And I think there's one that's running at the moment on LBC. Steady on. We're not supposed to talk about the adverts. No, I mean, you are now. You brought it up. No, I know. I suddenly realized that as soon as I said it, I thought you were going to talk about the lottery ones, which I think are recordings of real voices and real stories. But the bank ones, I don't think under advertising standard authority rules they'd be allowed to invent something. It must be based on real life. Yes, but are they. The people actually narrate the adverts, though? That's on. That's less likely. That's very. That's less likely. They just seem a bit polished somehow. They will be so that's why I like the, the lottery ones that don't sound polished. They really do sound like the people have just rung up and they've recorded the call and they find. So that's the opposite of what you're describing. You're describing the ones who sound quite slick. Almost like professional actors. Exactly. They will be professional actors, but the stories will be true. Is that one for the board then? I think it probably is, mate, don't you? Yeah. Don't go away yet. I need to go. I need to ask you to do me a favor, okay. Next time you go past a Reggie Bianchi down by the station in Macclesfield. Yeah. Everyone in Macclesfield does pop in and say hello to mister Bianchi Junior from James O'Brien. All right, I certainly will, yeah. Good man. It's twelve minutes after twelve. Round of applause for me. Nicola is in Bromley. Nicola, question or answer? Question. James. Yes. Why do toenails grow so much slower than fingernails? Are you sure that they do? Yeah, I cut my fingernails once a week probably, and toenails at once a month if that. Talons on your feet, are you sure they grow so much slower than they don't if you wear your fingernails much, much, really different fingernails. And seriously, have you never looked sunlight? Because they don't get any sunlight, you see. Well, that was what I thought, but that just sounds ridiculous because in the summer I'm constantly wearing open toe sandals and flip flops and things like that and, and they still don't grow as quick as I can go now. Okay. Coming into contact with stuff that's not going to work either. I thought I knew. I'm having a nightmare this week. Between you and me, Nicola, I'm having an absolute shocker on mystery hour this week. I'm not even sure I deserve the last round of applause about the adverts, but I've blown it with the chickens, I've blown it with the newborn babies and I've blown it with the toenails as well. I'll leave it on the board. I'll try. I think you're right. Toenails do seem to get cut less often than fingernails. Why would that be? Why do they grow slower? It's the same stuff coming out of a very similar digit or part of the body. Right. Two things. I'm sorry for trying to answer it, okay. And I promise I will get you an answer by 01:00 today. I look forward to hearing it at three things and I'm very sorry for comparing your feet to talons. I'm sure yours probably aren't much prettier. Mine is shocking at the moment, mate. I look like a hobbit. It's 1214 because misses O'Brien's away. Jasmine's in Brighton. Jasmine, question or answer? It's a question. James. Yes, nice to speak to you again, jasmine. My life is already feeling better than it did 47 seconds ago just for hearing your dulcet tones on the radio program once again. Oh, darling. Well, the question is, because of the smoking ban, where people used to put the cigarettes into ashtrays and they would be put into the bins. Now everyone is smoking outside, especially in big cities like London. Very true, smoking outside. And of course the street cleaners go around, you know, sweeping up a lot of them. But if you look into the drains along the street, they're ending up in the. Especially if it rains, they're all washed in there. Will there not come a time when the sewers of London are absolutely chunk block with cigarette butts, which apparently take a very long time to decompose? Many years. They don't just fall apart in the sewers. You're absolutely right. So they clear the sewers is the answer. They routinely. I mean, and also, you know, the sewage flows somewhere and they are routinely clean. But in Sydney. Have you been to Sydney ever? Kind of like the australian equivalent at Brighton? No, in Sydney. I remember I was in Sydney possibly twelve years ago and I saw near the beach the most ugly thing imaginable, Jasmine. It was like a sort of outlet with a mesh over it. And the mesh was almost exclusively cigarette butts. It was like piles and piles and piles of them that were being caught on the way towards the beach by this sort of outlet pipe covered in a form of mesh. And presumably every now and then, although they clearly didn't do it very often, someone piles down there and just cleans it all out. I see. Well, maybe the fish are eating it. They wouldn't be able to. It'd be horrible. Are you looking into the sea? No, I don't. I think you're being silly now, actually, jasmine, if you don't mind me saying so. Yes, all right, darling. So the answer is no. The butts will not block up the sewers, but only because they clean the sewers, although that sounds quite regularly. Do you know what a fatberg is? We'll have someone from the sewers who looks after the sewers, especially of London, to ring up and tell us. Okay, so I won't. I won't take a round of applause, your advent. Do you know what a fat burg is, jasmine, by chance? A fat burger. A fat burger with Agag at the end. Not a d. A fat burg. Do you not know what a fat burg is? No. Never heard the word. All right, pull up a seat. You're going to enjoy this. Underneath where I am now, in Leicester Square in London town, they routinely, routinely develop fat burgs because so much oil and cooking residue is poured down the drains that it coalesces beneath the streets of the city. Jasmine. And grows exponentially until sometimes you have a burg of fat that will be 6ft wide and as high as the sewer pipe itself and people have to go down there in protective clothing and carve out the fatberg so that the sewage can continue to flow through the pipes. Well, I will say one thing, I've seen many fat burgs above the ground as well. And nice to speak to you honestly, it's 1271 minutes after twelve. Sadiq Khan breaking tradition, of course, with the previous mayor by coming on every single daytime program on LBC to take your calls. Not, dare I say, confining himself to the more comfortable corners of the schedule. With Andrew Castle in for Ian Dale today. He's already done it with Sheila Fogarty, he's done it with me, and he'll be doing it with Nick Ferrari next month. 22 minutes after twelve is the time. Back to mystery hour. Questions that need answers. Why do some newborn babies seem to move around a lot more than others? I know. I don't think that's a very good question either, but you try telling the lady who asked it that. Why do chickens lay an egg a day? It's not quite an egg a day. I'm going to read a couple of texts on this issue, or one text in particular on this issue, because I quite enjoyed it. It's from Simon. You know Simon. Simon. From Simon's free range eggs? Yes, that's Simon. He's got five and a half thousand birds on the farm and he tells us chickens don't lay an egg a day. Hybrid birds lay on average 290 to 320 eggs per year. Pure breed, slightly less. Okay, I take your point, but the question still stands. They seem to lay a heck of a lot more eggs than any other egg layer. I've done that one. Why do toenails grow more slowly than fingernails? The few of you complaining that we've answered this, we have answered this before, but we were wrong. It has nothing to do with socks and shoes and toenails rubbing against things. It simply doesn't. I mean, if you think about it, your fingers are in use a lot more than your toes are, so that wouldn't really make sense. And what happens to all the cigarette butts that get washed down the drains? I'm fairly confident I answered that question, but jasmine wants more. And what Jasmine wants is, very simply, satisfaction. What happens to them? Someone who works in the sewers, come and tell her Steve's in crowbra. Steve, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Yes. Right, so, toenails, the reason mainly is because of blood supply. We've got a better blood supply to our hand because it's nearer to your heart. Because it's nearer to the heart. The arteries that supply the blood are slightly larger than they are in the feet, so they don't take so much damage over time and the increased level of nutrients coming in and all the nasty stuff getting carried away, just basically, it's better for male health. Qualifications? Podiatrist. Oh, that will do, yeah. It's not. It's not, if my memory serves correctly, though, it's not completely. I mean, this is the best available explanation. It's not actually been scientifically proven. No, you're absolutely right. It's a bit odd because some really, really common things, you know, it's like, you know, why does someone end up with fungus on their big toenail when it's. When it starts as athletes put in between the smaller clothes? There are other reasons for it, actually. You alluded to it just before I came on. You were talking about the footwear. Yes. Males are a little bit like skin. So if you do a manual job, for example, you're using shovel all day long. You get calluses on your hands where you rub the skin really hard. Yes. The reason you get the callus is because the skin is supposed to get thicker to protect the soft tissues underneath. Oh, yes. So skin and nails are made from the same stuff, keratin, predominantly. And there is a theory that, yes, because you've got more friction, more damage going on in the fingernails, they will grow faster to do what they're supposed to do to replace it. Also, the toenail is thicker than the fingernail, so that might be part. Yeah, with some people, minor. I'm not Bilbo Baggins these days. Do I need to come and see a podiatrist? Absolutely. I'll give you the address afterwards. I've got a weird nail as well. While you don't mind, do you, while you're here. Don't think less of me. All right, Steve, I haven't said it yet, but I am still, at the age of 44, able to bite my own toenails. I know a podiatrist that does that as well. I'm just going to leave that image with people. I'm just going to leave that to sink in for a moment. Anyone currently enjoying their lunch, I usually do it after a bath just to complete the full beauty of that picture. And once, many, many, many years ago, I made a terrible mistake. I was trying to bite away at a toenail and I did a bit of tearing rather than biting and I've now got a weird toenail. I've had it for 20 years. It's almost like a v shape. Grows in a v. It grows like a sort of claw. There's nothing I can do about that, is there, now? If it's been there for 20 years, yeah. And I'll tell you why that's probably happened, because we're not supposed to have footwear on, you know, the foot's not designed for it. No. So what that does is it introduces constant mechanical trauma onto the nail. And if that trauma goes back down the nail and just behind where the nail disappears into your toe, under the skin in there, is the nail matrix. And if you damage the nail matrix. Are you yanking my chain now? No, no, no. This is straight up. You're playing me straight. You're going for the nail matrix. It's the nail matrix. Yeah, well, no, no, seriously, this is, this is not THat sort of matrix. No, obviously, but it's a thing. The nail matrix. I see it a lot. Have I correct? Are you telling me, Steve in Crow brother, that I have corrupted my nail matrix? You have. Oh, my God. Today just goes from bad to worse. Yeah, I knoW. Well, you know, and there's no way back once. And once the nail matrix is corrupted, that's it. You're stuck with a claw for life. Yeah, it used to be a lot worse than that. People used to do a lot more, you know. It's a particular thing called Ostler's toe or rams horn. That's what. It looks a bit like a ramshorn. Ah, well, you have damaged the matrix then. Oh, God. Is it sort of going a bit black? Discolored? No, no, no. Oh, hang on. No, I can't. I've got my posh shoes on. It'll turn me ages to get them off doing telly tonight. So I've got my grown up shoes. I'm not pumped. Yeah, but is it heavy ridges? Yeah, heavy ridges. And do the ridges go from left to right rather than from front to back? Yeah, they do now. Yeah. Yeah. You've got, you've got Osler's toe, buddy. I'm sorry. Oh, shucks. But it's not a thing, though. I mean, it's not. I mean, it doesn't affect me in any way. It just looks a bit ugly. Yeah, no, exactly. And there's nothing you can do about it. Even a crack podiatrist like you, even a brilliant one like me. No, I mean. I mean, you could have the nail removed and it doesn't matter if you do that. No, there's no need for that. Did the ostlers toe? Why Ostler? What's an ostler? Works with horses or something like that. Historically, yeah. Yeah. Well done. Um, herdsman ostlers. That's right. They used to get, um, they used to have their toes stood on a lot by horses, cows, and that's what called Ostler's toe because it damaged the Matrix and it's permanent damage. Yeah. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I'm not, I'm not. I'll give you a round of applause for the answer, the original answer, but I'm not. I'm not paying for that consultation. No, no, no. I'll do it for free. But if I do it for free, I don't get to use any local anaesthetics. I might confiscate your applause if you're not careful. What I love about. Well played. What I love about this is the best of Miss Jack podcast goes on British Airways flights. Now for the in flight entertainment, it's up to Caroline, the producer, which bits make the tape. I love the idea of someone flying several thousand feet in the sky listening to me talk to Stephen Kroeber about my manky toe and the fact that I can bite my antennas. I've got a feeling it might not make the final edit. But if it does, and you are listening to this on your holidays, just be thankful that you don't have a toe like mine. Because when I wear flip flops, I'm constantly aware of the fact that somebody at some point is going to go, what the hell happened to your toe? And I'll have to tell them, you will not have that miserable experience on your holiday. So there you go. Hey, not only that, but you're going on holiday and I'm stuck here at work. So there's another reason to be cheerful. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC Mystery Hour is underway. Questions that still need answers involve cigarette butts, chicken and newborn babies. I've also got room for a few more. If you've got one that needs an answer, you know what to do. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. The time now is just coming up to 12:30 Simon Conway is here with the headlines. Jeremy, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1233. And don't worry, it's only my matrix that's been corrupted. I haven't effected any damage upon the broader universe. It's only my nail matrix that has been corrupted. If you're just tuning in and you've got no idea what I'm talking about, well, look, I'm the one that's saying it and I'm not quite sure what I'm talking about either, so don't feel bad. This chap listens far too closely. This is brilliant. So first it was the metaphorical arm of pernicious racism and now it's the corrupted nail matrix. Stubbsy. Richard, I'd forgotten about the metaphorical arm of pernicious racism. Something for the regular listeners there. Let's crack on with mystery. Al, John's in Trelawney. That's near rill, isn't it, John? No, it's not far. Well, hang on, when you say it's not far, how near real is it? About 6 miles. That's blooming near real, mate. You're talking about the whole of the United Kingdom. You can't get much nearer than real, than 6 miles apart, obviously from 5 miles. 4 miles a long way up. Yeah, right. I was just trying to sort of demonstrate a little bit of local knowledge. I wish I'm bothered now. What I usually say next is, oh, real's never been the same since they shut the sun center. Yeah, yeah, I won't bother with that. There goes my banter for the week. What did you ring in for? Question of answer. Well, I've been waiting a little while. That's not a complaint. But I've got a chicken tied in a tea towel on top of the kitchen sink, so bear with me. Oh, you pervert. It's an answer to your chicken question, is it? Surprisingly enough. Go on. You were right halfway. It is down to breeding. Birds that are in captivity are bred to bang out eggs, generally for 18 months to two years on a regular basis, as long as they're fed well and they're fed well with layers, pellets. So they produce good eggs that's right. And that just means that over the years, whenever a chicken has been a particularly good layer, they've bred from it. And then as generations and generations and generations pass, you end up with a layer like the ones you have. Yes. And naturally, birds like hens will lay up to about ten eggs, one after another, every day, and then sit on them for three weeks. We have bred out of them, generally about not sitting on their eggs, although a lot of hens do get broody from time to time. And does removing the egg add to this? I'm not sure it does. A lot of people are suggesting that because we take the egg away, they lay another one. But in my experience, I had a couple of chickens for a shortish period of time, and sometimes if we forgot to clear them out, you'd go in and pick up five or six. Yeah. Well, often they will lay. If it's a nice dark area, the hens will lay in the same nest anyway in captivity, but they will lay every day, so that when they hatch the chicks out, they don't take days to hatch out. They'll only hopefully take, of course. Oh, yes, of course. They've been laid in a staggered way. Did you say that was only half of the answer? Well, the half. The answer is they've been bred and another half is that they fed well. Yes. And if you feed a hen well, they will lay eggs. That's what they. They're producing, that's what they've been bred to produce, but they've got to be fed well to produce an egg. What are your qualifications, John? I am a amateur chicken keeper of 50 hens. You've got 50? Yeah, around. Do you sell the eggs, you just sell them at the bottom of the garden or do you? Over. Yeah, you're not supposed to. If you have under 50 hens, you can sell them to anybody. If you have over 50, you're supposed to be checked. Well, you've got 49, haven't you? Yeah. I could tell that from here. Yeah. 49 here. Thank you very much, officer. Just the 49. What's that? 51? No. Yeah, exactly. 49 again. Fantastic. An egg a day keeps the butcher away. Well, that's it. I love it, I love it. My hen's nail on the. So maybe it's got a matrix problem. No, no, no, everyone wants one now. Why have you got a chicken wrapped in a tea towel on top of your fridge? Because it's got an infective nail in one of his feet and I'm just cleaning it. Shut the front door are you serious? Yes, of course I'm serious. You've just gone tri topical. That's quite unbelievable. Well, you know. Do you want me to get the podiatrist back on? Do you want me to get the podiatrist back on? I don't know if he does chickens. He was very good on humans. I know. Please don't. Round of applause for John. Thank you. No, thank you. So I don't normally get a laugh out. Well, I do, actually. But I'll tell you what, if you haven't laughed out loud yet this hour, then I'll give you the money myself. Nigel's in head, calling Kent. Nigel, question or answer? Question. James, carry on, mate. Right. I was in Goa a few years back with some friends and they're staying in a hotel, and on the veranda there was a fridge. We pulled out a bottle of bizarre. You know, the water you get in India? I don't. It's just normal water. Is it normal still, mineral water, straight out. Supposedly straight out of the mountains, but who knows? Yes. Anyway, so we pulled the glasses. The first glass I pulled turn twice. Yeah, that was 16 years ago and I still haven't been able to find out the answer. So you had a glass and you took a bottle. You took a bottle out of the fridge? Yep. You poured it into the glass and it turned solid in the glass? Yeah. Had the glass been in the fridge? No. And it was about 95 degrees outside. Had you been partaking of any of the local punches? You know, there were three other people. Well, so what? They could all about, you could have bought it by the bucket loading goer, from what I'm told. Had you not been partake? I wouldn't know. I wouldn't know. But that is the truth. And I spoke to so many different people over the last 1516 years and no one come up with an answer. Well, I'm going to. So we take your word for it. You poured water, it left the bottle as liquid and it hit the glass as solid. Yep. All right. Well, this is one for Professor Hal, isn't it? Who? Professor Hal. So I don't know. Professor Howe. So you're not even a mystery. Our regular, you just happened upon this. And last time I ran because I was trying to find the answer to this, this problem and I was waiting ages and ages and I had to go out. So I'm very sorry for being so popular, Nigel. What do you want, a written Apollo? All right, we'll try and get Professor a. Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And he is where, sorry? At the University of Brighton. Why? Are you going to check his credentials? It's a good university. Trust me, it's not. And he's answered more mystery questions than anybody else. And this is right, I hope he might not know the answer now. Put the pressure on, he's probably on his holidays. Nigel, thank you. I'm glad you got on this time. I mean, Gary knows. Gary's just tweeted to say he's tried redial 100,000 times. He'd feel his pain. And Nigel's moaning about being kept on hold. Appalling manners. 20 to one is the time Aurelia is in Islington. Aurelia, question or answer? Question. How old are you, Aurelia? I am ten years old. Do you know that you've just got me into terrible trouble? No. Do you know why? No. Because my ten year old asks me every time they're on the school holidays whether or not she can ring into mystery hour. And I say that she can't. And then she'll hear another ten year old ringing into mystery out and she'll phone me out later and she'll go, daddy, why was Aurelia allowed to phone in with a question when I'm not allowed to? But that's my problem, not yours. What is your question, Aurelia? Well, I'm terribly sorry about that. That's all right. What's your question? My question is, can you ask? Cough. And I think my answer is no, because I don't think we'll be able to climb up the long net. It would be too far for the cough to travel from the lung all the way up the line. I don't know. How would we find out the answer? That we'd have to go and sort of watch a giraffe for ages, probably. I don't know what. And how long have you been wondering about this? About a week. Okay. Not that long, then. Although when you're ten, I suppose a week's a bit longer than it is when you're 44. Can giraffes cough? And it's definitely a cough. Would you be satisfied with a sneeze? No, it has to be a cough. Can giraffes cough? Crucial question. Right. We will get you an answer, Aurelia. Well, I will do my level best to get you an answer. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Bless you. And thank you as well. 1241 is the time. Can giraffes cough? What happens to all the cigarette butts that get washed down the drain. And why do newborn babies. Why do some newborn babies move around a lot and others don't? Mark is in. We need some more questions, don't we? Mark's in Bromley. Mark, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Right, if you're driving along the road and you come to Humpback Bridge and, you know, motoring, questions normally don't get through on the grounds of being too dull. This is brilliant. All right. Well, really. All right, big man, bring me on. So you're driving up and as you go. Humboldt Bridge. Yeah. The driver doesn't lose his stomach, but all the passengers do. Even if they're watching, you still lose your stomach. Why? Concentration. Nonsense. What? No, no. You know, if you're watching and you're a passenger and you go, here we go. I'm gonna lose my stomach. You still do. Well, the driver never does. No. All right, quick show of hands. Well, you wait there a minute, Mark. I'm talking to a different mark now. Do you recognize this? Do you drive a lot? It's true. Is it? I still lose my stomach as well. Caroline, do you use your stomach? You go over Humber. What, really? Well, you put him through. You're just trying to cover your own back now. And what about. So, Sophie, do you ever do recognize this at all? No, mate, we don't. We're not buying the premise of your question mark. It's a hundred percent factor. No, isn't. Because I've driven over a bridge and my tummy's turned over, man. You calling me a liar on my own show? You don't. I do. If you're a passenger, you do. No, I've done it as a driver. Well, do you know what you're doing? No, mate, you're being too binary. We've got. We've got to moderate this a little bit. We've got to move it into the gray area, move away from the tyranny of the black and the white. So your question thus becomes, why are you more likely to feel your tummy flip over when you're a passenger than you are when you're a driver? I'll take that. Yeah, right. I think you're wrong, but you can't say that I'm wrong, because I am proof that I'm right, and so is Mark. And Sophie and my colleagues here have felt our tummy turn when we've gone over a bridge. I've never heard you be wrong in the last six years. I don't suppose you're going to start wrong yesterday, mate, I was wrong about video games. Traumatizing to. I wasn't really wrong about it. What? Have I been wrong? No, I have been. I was wrong about something really huge recent. Dogs. Dogs. I was wrong about dogs. I must have been away that day. All right. I might change my mind. Back again soon. Mark. We'll get you. We'll get you an answer. Is there. Is there a link between dry. Because when I. I've told you before, when I was a kid, I got terribly seasick on a ferry and I stuck all my pet money in the video games and I wasn't seasick for the duration of the journey because I was concentrating so hard on the video game. I bet it's like that. I bet it's linked to that. But we'll find out for sure. We need a proper answer. Nick's in Kensington. Nick. Question or answer? It's an answer. That's me and it's Mick with him. Oh, all right. Sorry. It is you. Well done. Well improvised. Kept the ball in the air. Mick is in Kensington. Question or answer, Mick? It's an answer. Yes. Yeah. Cigarette butts in the old drains. Yeah. In and out of London. Right. They'll go over the pavements, don't they? In the kerbs? That's right down the road. Gullies. What happens is inside the gully there's a pot. So it's basically a big bucket which just collects it. All the debris gets filtered into there. It just collects before it goes out to the outlet. So in theory, all the bus, you just stay inside that pot. They shouldn't be going throughout, out through to the sewer and then the pot gets emptied and in Westminster's finest, or ever council's finest. Come along, suck it out. Yeah. Every six months, collected, taken away. That's it. That makes perfect sense. It's a nice answer. So jasmine in Brighton has nothing to worry about. There is no danger of a butter geddon somehow driving long, so providing they're all cleaned out all right, properly and. Yeah, but, yeah, apart from that, you just got to stop scruffy people chucking loads of stuff everywhere. I know. I wish they flipping would, but it's hard with a cigarette end, I guess, if there's nothing nearby to stub it out on. What are your qualifications, Mick? I'm a training engineer. So do you go. Do you go under companies in London? Do you go underground? Or are you. Are you sort of shoveling? No, it's mostly overgrown. But we do get involved in going in and out sewers. As well. So, yeah, your. Your little statement about the Fatbergs. That's quite correct. Nice work at this time. Nice work when the weather's like this, I bet, isn't it? Oh, it's lovely. Yeah. Yeah. Well, at least you got. You got yourself a mystery hour. Round of applause. So it's not all bad. There we go. Give that to Mick. Make sure we change his name on the records as well. Come on. And call him Nick again. 1245 is the time. There goes the cigarette bar. So the giraffes cough. Why do some newborn babies move more than others? And is there a link when you go over a humpback bridge? We think, because Mark reckons it's true. No one else is particularly persuaded that if you're the driver, you might be less likely to feel your tummy turnover. Is there a reason for that? Oh, and then there was the ice water. What was the name of the nice man who asked about the iced water? Can anyone remember it being in Goa? All those. I remember what his name was. His name was Nigel, I think, wasn't it? Was it Nigel who asked about the. Yeah, it was Nigel who asked about the ice water. He was in Goa. Come here a minute. If you're just tuning in, old Nigel, right? He was in Goa 16 years ago. He got a bottle of water out of the fridge. He poured it into a glass. The water came out of the bottle as a liquid, but by when it hit the bottom of the glass, it was ice. 15 years he's been asking people to explain that to him. None of them can. After the travel news, we think we. We think we know a bloke who might just be able to deliver some satisfaction in Nigel's direction. Ten minutes to one. Your stomach is weird, James. Mine doesn't do that while driving, but the passengers do. The driver is subconsciously tied to the machine car as an extension of their body and subconsciously braces. Somehow the passengers, while they know it's coming, won't know the exact point of the hill. Apex. Hmm. Unfortunately, as you sent that one, Jim. Stan sent this one. I drive and my stomach goes every time, mate. P's. Great show. Cheers, Stan. Ron is in Hatfield. Ron, question or answer? An answer? Bring it on, Ron. Yeah, it's to the. The frozen water thing. Oh, yeah. I. I know because I've had it happen to me. And I think probably because I'm in a similar situation. I was. I'm. I was the defense contractor in the military and I was in Afghanistan and there, you know, there's no running water. So all the water gets delivered in. In bottles, and people just stuff them into freezes and fridges and stuff like that? Yeah. So when you want some water, you have to just grab it out of the fridge. And once I went, I was thirsty, and I went to grab some water out of the freezer, and they were. And it was liquid when it was in there. And I grabbed the bottle out, and it immediately turned to ice. And I did it twice more. And all three bottles turned immediately to ice kind of in my hand before I could even open it. And what happens is, it's called super freezing. So if you put something, if you start to freeze something as it gets closer and closer to the freezing point and kind of not quite goes over the kind of molecules, the structure of it is just ready to freeze. So as soon as you disturb it by squeezing it or picking up or jostling it, it immediately freezes. And the same thing actually happens for boiling, too. There's a bit. It would have to be under pressure for that to work. So you'd have to have that seal on the bottle. No, no. I think you would. No. Actually, on Mythbusters the other way around, it turns out, like, for boiling, if you, like, boiled distilled water, if you tried to, and you took it out just before it boiled and it was in a cup or a mug and you dropped a fork in the top, it would immediately evaporate. But I'm pretty sure for freezing, I. Well, I don't see how, unless it was under pressure, it would have just frozen in the freezer. No, no. You know, if you put. If you put a capped water bottle in the freezer, it freezes as well. But. Yeah, but not usually it does. But it's a curious combination because a lot of bottles won't have turned to ice when you took them out. It's a combination of the pressure and the temperature, I suspect. I can't see how it. Because otherwise, if you were completely right, it would work on all bottles. It would never. It would never not happen. Huh? It does. The thing is. No, it doesn't. It doesn't work on all bottles because the number of people listening to this program, we've taken a bottle out of the fridge, poured it into a glass, and seen it turn to ice is not going to be 100%, is it? It is. It is like if you. If you go on YouTube right now and look up. And look up the Mythbusters. Yeah. They were trying to figure out why it happened itself, and they froze the water to that temperature. And every time it's just. It's just kind of luck with the draw. Like most people don't really freeze water, is the thing. Listen, I can't give you a round of applause for this, Ron. I feel bad because I haven't heard any science. All I've just heard is the phrase super freezing. If I was going to dream up a name for something to describe what you've just described, I think I'd call it super freezing. No, it exists. You can look it up. Well, I know I can look it up, but I still don't want to look it up. The point of mystery is that I don't have to look it up because your explanation of what is going on is so definitive that I don't need to look it up. Okay. All right. Let me try to explain why. You're a good guy and I'm grateful to you, but I. Where's Professor Howe? Is professor. How not rung in? Does he rung in? Where's Professor Howe? No, it's not that complicated. You know, when water freezes, the structure of it changes and it just has. The point is right, right there. When you say it's not that complicated and then you talk about a structural change in h two o that is affected by it. That is complicated. I mean, it's just evaporation and freezing and stuff. I mean, that it happens all the time. I mean, as complicated as, like, I don't know, fishing in the sun or something like that. Okay. It's just, you know, putting ice in the water and in the freezer. Okay. I'm still not going to give you a round of applause and I still feel bad about it because. And it's my fault because your explanation, I'm sure, is brilliant, but it's just not doing enough for me. It's not. It's not carrying me over the water, so to speak. 1254 is the time. Don't forget, the holiday season is here. And every Sunday, Sunday night from eight on LBC, Clive Bull and a panel of experts answer your questions in the travel hour. There's more information at LBC Dot Co dot UK, where you can also win a european break to your pick of destinations, including Paris, Rome or Athens. It's all thanks to Gatwick Express, who are helping you arrive without the stress. Brian's in Sunbury. Brian, question or answer? Go on. Water. Melt the freezing point of water. You must have done this at school. It's just physics. If you hang a piece of wire weighted wire across a block of ice. It cuts down through the ice because it melts it under pressure. So one reason that that could have happened, there may be a triggering effect, like your other guy was talking about. But one reason that would happen is because the water was under pressure as soon as the pressure dropped. Are you a proper scientist? Well, I was for 14 years. I'm a chartered physicist and a chartered engineer. But I became a businessman after that. Don't worry about all that business. It's just the chartered physics, mate. That's it. Yeah, nice. And the other thing, it's the shock of the surprise going over a bridge, I think. You. Don't spoil it. You're only allowed to do one. No, no, no, no. Get back in your box. We haven't finished with the water yet. So the pressure. Explain it to me again. So the water is very cold in the bottle, but when you change the pressure, it freezes? It could do. Yes, if there's enough differential. Because the melting point of water is pressure dependent. Brian, I'm going to give you a round of applause, albeit that Professor Hal is waiting around the corner with possibly a challenge to your answer. Professor Hal is here. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Take it away, Hal. Hello, James. I just caught the tail end of this. What have you been doing? I was actually in a misconduct panel. But that's not as a defendant, as a prosecutor. But anyway, let's move on from that. How did it go? No, let's not. How did it go? I can't say, mate. Seriously? Antifreeze, if you put impurities into water, you lower the freezing point. That's why we put antifreeze into our car radiators and why we put salt onto the road and so on and so forth. And this is a really interesting thing. Often when you undo the top of a fizzy pop, it'll freeze straight away or beer or anything. And what happens is it stays a liquid because it's got carbon dioxide, which is an impurity and it stops the water molecules turning into ice. As soon as you take the top off, the pressure is released, a lot of the carbon dioxide comes out of solution and therefore the freezing point goes up and that's why it freezes. So I was completely right? Yes. All right, then. You were completely right? Yes, you were. It was nothing to the pressure. Pressure affects boiling point. It doesn't affect melting point. No. Because you release the pressure which allows the carbon dioxide to escape. Yes, I know. I wasn't. I was agreeing with you. I'm on your side, mate. I'm saying. I was agreeing with you. We're gonna have a misconduct panel in a minute if you carry on like this. Who told you I've been misconducting? I don't know. I just heard it somewhere. Round of applause for Hal. Although half of it's mine. Good work, professor. Charles is in Peckham. Charles. Question or answer? I'm in a strand now. Oh, sorry about. I can't talk to you then. I've done. No, I've done my strand quota for the week, mate. I need someone from Peckham before I can clock off. Go on, what have you got? You've heard the thing about this summer, going over things. You had a lot of information there. Absolutely right. The driver can prepare himself with his core muscles. He knows what's coming. Hello? Yeah, I'm listening to you. I'm just wondering who you're listening to. No, so I'm just tucking myself in a doorway so I can hear you better. Oh, bless you. Go on. Yeah, so you. You have time to prepare your core muscles. You prepared for it. All the other sensory things are going on, but that's a physical one. It's like if you died left and right, your passengers would, you know, if you didn't warn them, they wouldn't be leaning into it and leaning out of it. Which explains why some drivers don't feel it, but other drivers do, because they're not. Sort of. Especially if it's a new bridge. Quite often when you go over a humbug bridge, you don't realize it's a humback bridge. I bet your man Mark, who asked the question is thinking about the same bridge that he goes over a lot and therefore sort of charges his muscles, as it were. And the more you concentrate as well, I reckon more likely would be. Round of applause for Charles, please. You didn't get an answer to Aurelia's question about coughing giraffes. Aurelia, I am so sorry. I may break the habit of a lifetime and put that on the list next week. So charming was the way you asked the question. And so intrigued am I now to know the answer. I've got. I've got one on text, but I don't think we can do texts. I'll let Aurelia decide. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from 10:00 the next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. Later on, from three. Two men have been jailed for a year after rashes of bacon were tied to door handles at a Bristol mosque. The men admitted religiously aggravated public order offences. But is jailing them the answer? Were there better ways to deal with these individuals? After two reversing the menopause, scientists claim that they now can by rejuvenating women's ovaries. Is this a miracle cure or manipulation of the natural phases of a woman's life? Life. Are we right to try to fundamentally extend a woman's fertile years? And after the news at one, the release of government papers always throws out interesting stuff, the latest batch revealing Margaret Thatcher's concerns over immigration from what she called the coloured commonwealth. Do her words show her to be a racist or merely reflect the language of the time?