Why are there safety caps on kid's vitamins, but not on alcohol?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. And we're back in the room. Our weekly opportunity to temporarily forget about our troubles and travails and focus instead upon the search for knowledge, the quest for enlightenment, the celebration of education. It's mystery act, which means people ring up and ask questions and then someone else rings up and answers them. But I like to dress it up a little more than that and imbue it with a sense of ceremony and occasion that I think has proved very welcome during these difficult times. It's also been very, very welcome to see and hear so many younger listeners, so many children getting involved in mystery. It has effectively been hijacked, and I've loved every minute of it. I don't know about you. So the one silver lining of the continuing lockdown and the utter failure of the government to provide any sort of guidance, guidance and leadership on the question of when schools may be properly reopened. The silver lining, the only silver lining, perhaps, is with you on Thursdays at noon, live on LBC with me, James O'Brien. So what happens is someone rings in and asks a question, someone else rings in and answers it. But a couple of caveats. You're not allowed to look stuff up, obviously, because if you're allowed to look stuff up before providing an answer, then this would be a completely futile exercise. And oddly, given that it has been completely hijacked by children in recent weeks, it was conceived originally as well. That sounds a bit pompous. Actually, it was conceived originally because you're not allowed to talk about politics when there's an election on, and elections are always on Thursday. So it was a way of getting an hour over the line that didn't run any risk of breaching Ofcom regulations and straying into conversations that actually mentioned politics. But it stuck because it was so much fun. And I do mean this, it always makes me think, if you're new to this, this of the shock initially felt by people of my generation, goodness knows what it was like for older people when you found out that your own children were allowed to take calculators into exams from quite an early age. And then you suddenly realize that if you grew up, if you went to school in pre Internet days, everything's changed because you don't need to know anything anymore. You need to know where to find knowledge, and you need some knowledge in order to work things out. But what is the point, for example, in the current climate? Or what is the point in 2020, of being able to list Henry VIII's six wives. When you can literally find them within a nanosecond of taking a phone out of your pocket. And yet still, I think it's a human thing, this. I hope it's not a generational thing. I hope knowledge isn't going out of fashion. I still think that we as a species, despite the best efforts of Michael Gove and others, we do like experts. We do like knowledge. We love people who have an enthusiasm for their subject matter. Whether it's the late Fred Dibna climbing up steeples. Or whether it's the magnificent professor Brian Cox talking about space. We just love enthusiasm for knowledge. Expertise in fields of. Well, anything you like. But don't think this is all academic. Some of the questions will be really silly. Some of the answers could be even sillier. The point is this. Don't look anything up. Don't be boring. And don't forget to be nice. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then I need you to ring in and provide it. Don't worry if you're a grown up. Grown ups generally provide more answers than children. But most of the questions at the moment are rather gratifyingly coming from children. Shall we start in Leeds? I think we should. Nikita is in leads. Nikita, do you have a question or an answer for me? Yeah, I've got a question. Carry on. And why do people use the word be? To scare someone. And what makes the word boo? Scary? Boo. Yeah. Why do people. Why do we say boo? To scare people. And why does it. You're not really allowed to questions, but. Hang on. Can I just read your mind for a minute? You. Can you make it? Can you sort of make a humming noise for me? Okay. Is it your. Is it your birthday today? Yes. Oh, my good. Hang on. Do it again. Go back. Are you eight? Eight and a half. Eight and three quarters. Eight and seven. Eight and. Are you nine years old today, Nikita? Yes. Oh, my days. Well, then you can be the first person in the history of mystery hour. That is allowed to have two questions on the board at the same time. Why do we say boo? To scare people. And why. Why does it work so well? I like it a lot. What did you get for your birthday? My dad bought me a bike. What? Fantastic. Well, I can't add to that. I can't beat a bike. But I can try and get you an answer. You take care of yourself, Nikita. Thanks ever so much. For the question. And happy birthday. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Why do we say boo? It's a good. I mean, you might be able to work it out, but I'd like a sort of evolutionary psychologist to give us the real gen on this. It's Nikita's birthday, so she. I'm not going to palm her off with one of my half baked answers. Clara is in Cranley. Clara, do you have a question or an answer for me? Question. Carry on, Clara. If you put your elbows on the table, close your eyes and rest your eyes in the palm of your hands, why do you see colors and shapes? Or if you just. Yeah. You mean like if you put a little bit of pressure on your eyelids when your eyelids are closed. When your eyes are closed, a lot of pressure on them. Well, not too much. I don't want people poking their own eyes out, Clara, because it's not you that would get into trouble, is it? It's me. I'm the bloke on the radio. You could just pretend that, I don't know, you were someone else, so don't put too much pressure on your eyes. But, yeah, you see weird kind of images and lights almost, don't you? I'm doing it now. Not. Not that I like that. Well, should we try and find out? I think we'll put that on the board. It's a brilliant question. How old are you? Seven. Seven years old. Fantastic stuff. Thank you, Clara. We shall try to find out. When you close your eyes, when you put a little bit of pressure on your closed eyes, why do you get those weird images, lights and colors and shapes in your field of. Would it even be vision? I don't know. Ten minutes after twelve is the time Matilda is in Kent. Matilda, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Matilda. Why is there a child caps lock on child vitamin sweets and not alcoholic drinks? Well, I mean, it's quite a good. I mean, it's a brilliant question. I think I know the answer. Or do I know? Because I was going to say, can I give you an answer and you can tell me why it's stupid? Is that all right or are you busy? Yeah, I'm not busy at all. No, nor am I, actually. I think it's because the children's vitamins bottles are kept in, like, they might be in the bathroom cupboard. They're somewhere where children could realistically get hold of them. And then I'm about to say, but parents don't leave alcohol where children might get hold of it. And you'll say to me, hang on a minute, mate. There's a bottle of wine in the fridge at the moment. Are you. Are you stupid or something? James? But you'd be too polite to put it like that. But it's not a very good answer, is it? Yeah, I've got another. Everyone's a critic. Um. It's too expensive. Are you laughing at me, Matilda? No. Are you? Quite. So. What have you got? Have you got hay fever or something? Because I heard something that sounded very like a snigger in the background, then when I was providing my. Oh, okay. So it's just your. It's just your allergies. It's just your allergies playing up again, is it? Because I heard it again there. It sounds like a little snigger, or it must be a sneeze. I think it would be too expensive to put children's safety bottle caps on on bottles. But I don't know is the short answer. So I shall try and find out for you. It's a brilliant question. When did you come up with it? A few years ago, I think. I don't know. Years ago? You're only ten. What do you mean, a few years ago? You'd be sick. Right, well, I'll try and get you an answer, even if it takes me a few years. Thank you, Matilda. Why are there not. It's actually a brilliant question. Why haven't we got safety caps on alcohol bottles? Given that we have them on, yeah. I mean, vitamins being a brilliant example, most. More obviously, I suppose, all the stuff that you keep under the sink. Luella is in St Leonards on sea. Luella. Do you have a question or an answer for me? A question, please. Carry on, please. I wanted to ask why blowing a raspberry is called blowing a raspberry? The questions this week are absolutely brilliant. I mean, I've never thought of that before. Why is it called a raspberry? Would you do me a small favor? Yeah. Would you mind? Because some people listening to the program might not know what blowing a raspberry means. So would. Would you mind Luella blowing a small raspberry for my listeners? Okay. That was actually brilliant. Are you an. Are you a professional raspberry blower? No. Do you know where I normally hear that noise? I say to people, what do you think of my radio show? And that's the noise that I usually hear in return, which isn't really very nice, is it? No. We shall get you an answer. Why do we call blowing a raspberry blowing a raspberry? Zero. 345-606-0973. Why is boo scary? Why do we say it? Why does it work? And when you put a little bit of pressure on your closed eyes, why do you get all those shapes and lights and similar. 1213. We can squeeze in one more, I think. Let's go to Megan who's in Tunbridge. Megan, do you have a question or an answer for me? A question. Carry on. Megan, why'd you get freckles? I know this. Do you? Can I have a go answering it or would that be really boring for you? You can have a go. You know, you don't sound very confident, Megan. You don't sound as if. You don't sound as if you have great faith in my ability to get this right. So, you know, if you are in the sunshine and you sometimes go brown. Yeah. So the chemical in your skin, I think, is called melanin and it's that chemical that makes all of your skin go brown and a freckle is like a deposit of melanin that is there. Anyway, so usually you get more freckles in the sun. Do you get freckles a lot? Have you got a lot of freckles? Yes. My twelve year old's got loads and loads of freckles. I tried to give them all names once, but I ran out of names when I got up to 364 freckles. So in the sunshine, her freckles come out even more. So it's like. Do you understand what I'm saying? So it's like a suntan when you go brown is as if all of the skin is equally bringing the melanin to the surface. But a freckle is like a little concentration of the chemical called melanin, which is what makes our skin go brown in the sunshine and also what makes a freckle the color of a freckle. Cool. What's the name of the chemical again? Can you remember? No, I've already forgotten, Megan. It even sounds a bit like your name. Melanin. That went brilliant. Melanin. That's it. If you go back to school after the lockdown and they say, what have you learned during lockdown? You can say, the chemical that makes your freckles brown is called melanin. And that is ten weeks. That is ten weeks well spent. Round of applause for me and Megan, please. 1215 is the time. This is lBC with James O'Brien. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. A veritable cornucopia of quality questions this afternoon, thanks to my, my younger listeners, and it is perhaps more for the older listeners that I turn our attention now back to the passing of Dame Vera Lynn. It was announced by her family earlier today that she has passed away at the age of 103. My colleague from classic FM, Alexander Armstrong, is on the line. I'm delighted to say, because, Alexander, you collaborated with Dame Vera for an album she released to mark her hundredth birthday. Can you give us an idea of what she was like? I can't. Well, I can and I can't really. I mean, we collaborated, I suppose, rather like we're collaborating now down the line. I didn't actually. Sadly, I never got to. I didn't get to meet her, but I had correspondence with her which I. Which I will treasure forever. But she was. I mean, she was wonderful. She was vivacious. She was full of. Full of life. Then at 100, pretty impressive. Good news. I'm currently. The feature we're doing on the program at the moment is very popular with children, so it would be helpful, perhaps, for you to explain to children why Dame Verilyn was so important and what it was that she. That she did as a young woman that still resonates 80 odd years later. Well, I think you have to imagine, I mean, you know, what. What lockdown has been like for all and how we've all really yearned for something to lift our spirits, something to. We've had Captain Tom Moore, for example, who's been a huge example to us all, and we focus all our attention and affection on him, if you can imagine that sort of times ten, for times 100, even in wartime circumstances where everybody is feeling the pain and it goes on and on and there's no knowing when there's going to be an end to it. Vera Lynn was that great beacon of hope, and I think she was a. She became a symbol of so many good things and a sort of reminder, I think, of what. Of what normal life was like and what the sort of the gentleness of normal life and the. You know, there was something in her voice. She had just something in her voice. There was amazing quality, which was at once, it was sort of part hymn singing. I mean, you know, there was something of the old anglican thing in there, but also there was something. There was a little note of. There was something fun in there, a bit of a. From Vera Ling. You know, she had. There was a. There was just a bit of humor and a bit of spice in there as well. And I think that was. It just represented so many good things for people. It's interesting you mentioned the lockdown, of course, because even the queen referred to we'll meet again, didn't she? When she. When she addressed the nation. And until you just said that, then I hadn't properly clocked the. The element of the return, the promises, the return to normality, isn't it? And during the war, that would have been absolutely invaluable. It's such a powerful thing. It's weird. I remember once being in. Being in the Arctic, I was filming in the Arctic and we'd been there for, I don't know, weeks and weeks and weeks, and the only colors I'd seen were the white of snow and the dark of stone. Everything was in shades of gray. And I remember going, we were on the west coast of Greenland and seeing these people and they made these fantastic. Out of coral. They make these extraordinary colorful. They're like sort of necklaces they wear. And literally, it made me giddy just to see bright colors again. It was. The effect of. It was really extraordinary. And I think we have a similar sort of thing in these times where I think everybody just. You long for the comfort and reassurance of the old. The old sureties, you know, the things that you cling to. This. This too will pass. When you did the album, which I think made Dame Vera the only sent. What's the word? Sentinel. Yeah. The only hundred year old ever to get a number one album. How did you divvy up the songs? Because I know Alid did as times go by, and Alfie Bow did. We'll meet again. That's right. Cliffs of Dover. How did it all get divvied up? At the time? It was all done. My lovely old friend James Morgan was the. He and his wife Juliet were the. Were the producers of it, and. And they. I think they worked out what voices they thought would suit their arrangements better. It was lovely because they were writing harmonies to go over and sing around. So you're kind of filling in a little, I don't know, a little duet part, a little duel with Dame Vera. But she also, interestingly, the quality of her voice. I've talked about that before, but if you listen to it now, it still sounds sort of relevant. If you listen to some recordings from the forties or even the fifties, it sounds incredibly dated. It's not just the crackle on the record, it's. There's something about the vibrato, I think, that people have that was very much of its time. And actually, she had a style of singing and a very fresh vibrato that still sounds. Sounds normal. Now, which is why people still enjoy listening to her singing today, whether on the original recordings or on her. Or on her duets with you. Yeah. Alexander, thank you so much. Real pleasure. James, thanks. Always a pleasure. Take care. Alexander Armstrong, of course, known to you as an actor and a comedian and as my colleague on classic fm, but also no mean singer in his own right, as you're probably already aware. But if you weren't, check it out. 23 minutes after twelve is the time. Back to mystery hour, and I'll give you a reminder in a minute of the questions that are still in need of answers. Before that, we'll get a few more questions on the board. Zane is on the line from London. Zane, do you have a question or an answer for me? I've got a question. Good man. Carry on, Zane. Okay, so my question is, why are snakes. Why do snakes have forked tongues? Yeah, yeah. Have you got any theories? Um, not. No, not really. I know they do something with their tongues, don't they? But, like, they use them. Actually, mate, I'm just talking rubbish, saying I don't know. I was about to try and say something clever and then I got halfway through the sentence and I realized that there was nothing at the end of it. Does that ever happen to you? Yeah, a few times. Yeah, me too. It's a bit embarrassing when it happens live on the radio, though, so I've got no idea. That's why I should have said. I should have said, zane, I haven't got a clue, mate. I shall try and find out for you. Should we pretend that the last two minutes never happened? Okay, now. Nice one. Great question. Zane, I haven't got a clue, mate. I shall try and find out for you. Why do snakes have forked tongues? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. 24 minutes after twelve is the time Ava is in Epsom. Ava, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. When lightning strikes the sea, why did all of the animals die? When lightning strikes the sea, why doesn't everything in the sea die? Yeah, it's a good question. I think I know the answer, but I don't want to embarrass myself like I just did with Zane, so I. Have you ever seen lightning strike the sea? Yeah. And how do you know that nothing died? I don't know. But. But we do know that there are still quite a lot of stuff in the sea, and it must have been struck by lightning quite a lot of times. So it's highly unlikely that everything in the sea dies whenever it gets struck by lightning. Yeah, or something like that. Great question, Ava. Thank you very much indeed. 25 minutes after twelve, Sonica is in Sittingbourne. Sonic, a question or answer. Have I got your name wrong and that's why you're not replying or. No, we'll carry on. We'll try and get back to you, I promise. Yasmin's in Nesboro. Lovely part of the world. Yasmin. Hello, Yasmin. Question or answer? I've got a question, but one of my students actually wants to ask the question because I'm currently in class teaching, so I'll have to hand you over to Lauren. Fantastic. Go on, Lauren. Why does light not travel through walls, but radio waves do? Flipping heck. Lauren, how old are you? Eleven. I've worked. That's the sort of question I'd expect from a university student. You're not supposed to be asking things like that in year six. What's going on in Nazbar? Not much. Why do light waves not go through walls when radio waves do? Yep. What are you studying? What class are you in at the moment? What? I'm in class three. Which is the highest class? Well, I'm not surprised by that. And what subject are you studying at the moment? English. Not specifically. Radio waves and light. That's an absolutely brilliant question and I haven't got a clue. Thank you for that, Lauren. Thank you to your teacher. Did you know her name was Yasmin? Because you must call her miss, don't you? Yeah. We knew. You do now. She should have come on and said, it's Miss. What is it? Miss what? Miss Alvarez. Miss Alvarez. Thank you. Miss Alvarez. Yeah? I don't think we should have. I don't think we should have been so informal on our first meeting, Miss Alvarez. I prefer to keep things fit and proper on my radio program. But I'm very glad you were all listening today and I shall do my best to get you an answer. Thank you, Lauren. Thank you, Miss Alvarez. And thank you, everybody else in class. 327 minutes after twelve is the time. And Sonica is here. Now. Sonica is in sitting born. Sonic. A question or answer? Question. Carry on. Where does helium come from? How do you mean? Like, just where? Where? Because you know what I would say, don't you? I'd say, well, last time I had some helium, it came out of a. It came out of a canister that we bought in the party shop. But that's not the answer you're looking for, is it? No. I love these ventriloquist. These ventriloquist phone ins. I shall find out for you. Sonica, where does helium come from? I know there was a worry, wasn't there, that. Well, actually, no, this isn't suitable for a ten year old. On why there was a worry about helium shortages for dentists because they were being used in other contexts. So I shall try to find out for you. Where does helium come from? Why do light waves not go through walls when radio waves do? An amazing question from Nesbitt is actually relevant to the app. You know, the testing and tracing app that we were talking about quite recently, and when lightning strikes the sea, why don't all the fish die? If you can answer any of these, get in touch and you'll be on the radio by teeter by before 01:00. Other questions in need of answers. Why do we have safety caps on medicines and bleach and even children's vitamins, but not on alcohol? Why is blowing a raspberry called blowing a raspberry? And Luella did actually provide a first class example of a raspberry when she asked that question. When you close your eyes and put a bit of pressure on your eyelids, why do you see colors and shapes and lights in your field of vision? And why do we say boo when we want to scare people? Why does it work so well? Why does boo work when you want to make people jump? Maybe not scare them necessarily, but it is a scare, isn't it, to make them jump? 29 minutes after twelve is a time. If you can answer any of those questions, then do get in touch. And of course, there is always a possibility that you might go definitive, which is the word we use to describe a correct answer. And if you turn out to have qualifications that are almost too good to be true. In other words, if the reason why you know the answer to a question is because of something in your own life, that will make the rest of us go, wow. Then you get what's called a ray liotta, which is currently and for the last few years has been widely regarded as by far the highest honour that british radio can bestow upon a listener. It's 12:30 Dominic Ellis is here with the headlines mystery Hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1234. And this is indeed LBC. You are listening to mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to get answers to questions that may never have occurred to you before, but which are suddenly in desperate need of answers. And we've got a right old collection today, some really superb questions coming in from all corners of the country. Where does helium come from? Why do light waves not go through walls when radio waves do? When lightning strikes the sea, why don't all the fish die? Why do snakes have forked tongues? Why do we call a raspberry a raspberry in the context of blowing a raspberry? Why do we have safety caps on children's vitamin bottles, but not on alcohol? When you close your eyes and put a bit of pressure on your eyelids, why do you see colors and shapes? And when we say boo, why does it actually make people jump? What is it? Because there's other words. I'm pretty sure if you said rowing boat, it wouldn't make people jump, or even single syllable words. If you said wool, it would. Why does boo work so well? I wonder whether the answer will contain the word plosive. I hope so, because then I'll sound slightly clever. 1235 is a time. Lara is in Hampton Hills. Lara, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Um. If two people taste something, do they taste it in the same way? How could we ever know? Uh. I don't know. No. Nor do I. So it. I suppose. I mean, you're a bit young for. For wine, aren't you? But sometimes if you buy a bottle of wine, you read notes on it. Have you ever seen this? And it'll say, this has a hint of petrol, and some are medicine. And then you taste it and you think, nah, just tastes like wine. But if you read those notes and you also got a hint of petrol and summer meadows, then that would almost be an answer to your question, wouldn't it? Yes. I suppose if you describe a food using words. What's your favorite cheese, Lara? I'm not sure. Oh, come on. You've got to have a favorite cheese. Everybody has a favourite cheese. No. What's your favorite. What's your favorite biscuit, then? Chocolate chip cookie. Oh. Now, you describe a chocolate chip cookie to me, and I'll tell you whether or not I think it tastes the same as you do. Chocolatey and crispy and chippy? Yeah. Chocolatey and crispy and chip. Yeah. But then what does chocolate taste like? Oh, this is a brilliant question. We could be here all day. I shall find out for you. If two people taste the same thing, do they taste it in exactly the same way? I love that. Are you sure you haven't got a favourite cheese? Before you go, Lara, I worry that. I worry about the richness of your life if you haven't got a favorite cheese. I like all of them. Oh, perfect answer. So do I, actually. 1237. Although if you pushed me, Lara, I would go for a cave. Aged compte. Emma is in Manchester. Emma, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. And how old are you, Emma? I do this every week. It never gets old. How old are you? How old. Have you got your mommy's permission to phone me, Emma? I do. Fortunately, yes. I mean, I didn't quite fill her in completely, but I think she's okay with it. What's your answer? So why do you see colored shapes when you press on your eyes? It's because you have lots of really delicate nerves in your eyes. And obviously, when your eyes are open, they react to light. But when you press on your eyes, you sort of mechanically press on them, and that stimulate symptoms go off, even though they're not getting any light coming in. And so they start sending information to your brain to say you're seeing something, but there isn't really anything there. So you'll see weird stuff that your brain just kind of makes up and puts there. That makes perfect sense, actually. I love that answer. So, because the nerves just being treated in a way that they're not designed to be treated, and the response, the reaction is completely accidental or coincidental, but it actually happens, and we've all seen it. They just miss fire. And also, what's really, really crazy is that some people, when they lose their vision, if they go blind, they'll actually hallucinate and see whole things that aren't there. So they'll see people and places and all sorts of things similar to that. I love that. Because the communication with the brain is. Yeah. Well, what are your qualifications, Emma? I'm an optometrist. Fantastic. Are you back at work yet? Oh, we never closed. We were open the whole time providing emergency eye care. If anybody out there needs any help, go to your optician now. Yeah, no, fair enough. Because there is some confusion over emergency eye care, though, as opposed to, you know, I need some new frames for my bifocals. Oh, yeah. So it was. It was emergency during lockdown. But I can assure anybody listening that routine eye tests have now resumed in most practices. So they can go and get an eye test whenever they need help. Covering so much ground today. This is magnificent. Have a round of applause. Oh, carry on. No. Quick. No. Stop. Keith. Keith. She hasn't finished, honestly. Sorry, Emma. I just can't get the staff. Well, it was under the kind of same topic. The person who was asking about whether not things taste the same was whether things look the same, because it's all going through a different processing center. Everybody's brain is wired up differently. You can't claim that everybody sees green the same or blue the same in the same way, that you can't see that everybody tastes things the same, because it all just depends on how your neurons fire up. So, no, well, I'm gonna leave. I'm not giving you two rounds of applause because you are not a taste buds expert. You are an eye expert. So I shall give you a round of applause for your question about eyes, which was a cracker. Thank you, Emma. Bye. Keith, give her the round of applause now, mate. The last one was too early. There we go. Thank you. Thank you, Emma. And that is, who asked that question? It was a brilliant question that I really liked. I hope you're satisfied with the answer that you got, Clara. It was Clara in. Clara in Cranley. I don't know why I struggled to say that. I must put my teeth in. Um, where are we going next? Emma is now we've done. Emma, where are we going next? John's in Ripley. John, question or answer? Excellent answer, James. Carry on. John, raspberry. Carry on. It's Cockney rock, cockney rhyming slang. Raspberry tart rhymes with another term for breaking wind. Um. What does the raspberry sound like? No, I know, I'm just. I just can't think what tart rhymes with. Ross, can I say? Your researcher said I could say it on here. Well, go on, then. What is it, then? Well. Rod retard. Fart. You said fart. He said fart on the radio qualification. It's going to cause a few sniggers amongst your younger listeners, I'm sure. Well, you know, I think that in normal circumstances it would have been amusing, but in the current circumstances, given the average of people tuning in for mystery, getting the f word out there is an absolute moment, mate, for which I thank you from the very bottom of my rhymes with fart. What are your qualifications, John? I bought a book about 30 years ago with Cockney rhyming slang and its definitions and I've still got it. And this stuck in my mind, you know. Well, I'm not surprised it stuck in your mind. It's a beautiful answer, actually. Luella in St Leonards will now have to ask somebody what Cockney rhyming slang is, but she knows what the answer is. Round of applause for John. I love that. Thank you. Oh, thank you. 1241 is the time. I'm 48 years old, in case anyone was wondering. Peter is in Derby. Peter, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Peter. So it's an answer to the question that was asked by the procrastinating school student in Knaresborough, who said that they're asking the question because there's nothing better to do in. Fair enough. So the reason why this is the light waves don't go through walls, but radio waves do. They do. So light waves are in the middle of the electromagnetic spectrum, radio waves, and then gamma rays are at the opposite end of the spectrum. So gamma rays are low wavelength, high frequency, high energy. Radio waves are long wavelengths, as you'll know, being a radio dj, low frequency and low energy. But because of those properties that they've got, in terms of the higher wavelength and the higher energies and the higher frequencies, when they interact with the molecular structure of a wall, they've got the sufficient properties to go through that, whereas visible light doesn't. But if your wall was glass, because of the molecular structure of the glass, the wavelength and the frequency and the energy are visible light does pass through that. So if you think about gamma rays and alpha rays, if you put a piece of paper on a piece of table and place an alpha ray, alpha source through it, the paper stops it, because it doesn't have enough energy to penetrate through the paper. But if you put a gamma ray and put a paper source in front of it, the energy and the frequency of the gamma ray is strong enough to pass through it, which is why you'd be able to detect it on the other side of the paper. So it's all to do with that. If it was like a question out of five in an exam, if you just said energy, you'd get to two points or so. Now you probably get five nowadays because exams are getting easier, aren't they? There's no need to get so controversial, Peter. We've got enough on our plate at the moment without having a crack at the education system. So it is. It is. I mean, it all boils down to energy, albeit with the more sophisticated explanation that you've provided. It does. And that was a tongue in cheek was huge. I know. Working very hard. Exactly right. Quite right. So, yeah, it's all to do with deeper. Yeah, exactly. Posh part of the country. They have miss in. Miss Alvarez, Miss Alvarez's class. Um, what are your qualifications? I am a nuclear engineer, James. Hey, I bet. Ever get tired being able to say that to people? No, but it does get tired saying, when people ask us that, you basically do what Homer Simpson does. No, I hadn't even thought of that. Have a round of applause, Peter. Thank you, mate. Great work. Does even Homer describe himself as an engineer? I like that a lot. Louis in Radley. Louis, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Has a power, has helped improve climate change? Has the lockdown helped improve climate change? Yeah. Sorry, your line went down a bit. It's a tough one to answer that, Louie, because pollution has gone down a lot, because there have been fewer cars and a lot less planes. But I don't know, and I don't think anybody knows whether or not anything permanent would have happened via this temporary change. And we don't know for a couple of years whether or not it's going to change our behaviors. But I'll leave the question on the board because there's almost certainly someone cleverer than me listening. We had a nuclear engineer on a minute ago. I don't know if you heard that. So has COVID-19 helped improve climate change problems? It's a great question. Thanks. Good man. And you mean the lockdown, don't you? That's the point. The way that our behavior has changed. Well, I think that's a rhetorical question. As Louis fully understood from the beginning, 1245 is the time. So I'll run through all the questions in need of answers after this. Coming up at one on LBC, Sheila Fogarty, paediatricians, parents, teachers and Prince Charles all expressed deep concern over what coronavirus will do to children and young people. How are yours coping? Sheila Fogarty on LBC 6.9% mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time. You are indeed listening to mystery hour with me, James O'Brien, on LBC questions that still need answers. Why is boo such a powerful way of making people jump? Why do we have safety caps on children's vitamin bottles and other things, but not on alcohol? That's actually, the more I think about that, Matilda, the more I like that question. We should have got an answer for Zane. Why do snakes have forked tongues? And where does helium come from? I like that. And of course, the question about when lightning strikes the sea, why don't all the fish die? That is. That's all I've got on the board at the moment. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need if you can answer any of those questions. I don't know whether or not there's some sort of communication breakdown here, but I don't have any calls to go to at the moment. Just bear with me one moment 1249 is the time. Those are the questions that are in need of answers. If you can answer any of those, then get in touch with me sharpish while we head over to Malden. Charlotte, is there. Charlotte, question or answer? Hello? Hello, Charlotte, do you have a question or answer for me? Question. Who's that whispering in your ear? Don't worry. What's your question, Charlotte? Um. Why did judges wear wigs? Why did judges wear wigs? I like that. Quite. Have you been in court lately, Charlotte? Have you been. No. Are you sure? Charlotte, are you telling me the truth on this one? No. I know. I'm only joking. You're still young, so just a matter of time. And we want to know why judges wear wigs. I kind of know this, but it's to do with. It's quite hard to explain. It's to do with, like, a uniform. So that you know that the judge is not just a person. The judge is the embodiment of the law. But you want a better answer than that, don't you? You want something that makes a bit more sense. Yeah. Yeah. Don't be shy. Everyone's having a crack today. We shall try and find out for you. So, why do judges wear wigs? Can we find out for Charlotte, please, who has definitely never been in court herself? 1251 is the time. If you're all very good, next week, I'll tell you about the time I got removed from. From a courtroom for falling asleep in the public gallery. Francis is on the line. Francis, do you have a question or answer for me? We've got an answer. Well, how old are you? Well, that's hard to explain. Something about. In a week, I'll be seven. So you're. So you're currently six? Yes. God, I'm good, aren't I? How do you think I work that one out? Because I'm a genius. Comes before seven. Oh. Oh, yeah. That's the obvious answer. Yeah. All right. So I thought I'd be really clever. Then. I thought by working out that if you were seven next week, then you'd be six this week. But you're right. Now I come to think about it, it's actually really obvious what, you know. Don't worry, I can deal with the embarrassment. It's not like anyone else is listening, Francis. It's just you and me. So which question are you going to answer? It's the snake and the hawked. Hungry. Why do snakes have forked tongues? Because they flick their tongues out to send the world around them. They go up and down not left and right. So they need forks or tongues to sense left and right as well as top and bottom. Well, I never. So if there was a delicious snack round the corner, they wouldn't know whether it was around the left corner or the right corner, unless they had two separate bits of tongue to tell them. You're a genius. How do you know that? Well, I just read a lot of books in the past time. I read a lot about snakes. Fair enough. Do you have a favorite snake? Yes, I do. And actually, I've gone in a year of the water snake. That allows me to have both of my favorite. I've got two favorite snakes, actually are water snakes. One is a lamb snake, as well as a water snake or largest snake called the anaconda. The other venomous snake called the sea krake, that lives entire life on sea. But the females were going like, these underwater caves under an island to lay their eggs. Good grief. You. I mean, I actually. You can probably answer anything about snakes. I get the impression you're one of the country's leading snake experts. I'm not really a snake expert. I think you'll find you are a snake expert, Francis. You'll certainly probably know more about snakes than any six year old about to be seven year old in the country. Don't you think? Maybe. I don't know. I think you do. Would you like a round of applause? I don't know. I sometimes. Yes. Yes, yes. You. I think you may have misunderstood the question. Here it is. Absolute. And France is. Happy birthday for next week. Okay. I hope you get a snake. Are you. Are you hoping to get a big snake for your birthday? Well, they're currently getting. Gonna get carried around. No, that's true. No, you've got storage issues, transport issues. Maybe better off asking for a bike. Mind how you go, Francis, and look after yourself. That was one of the best answers we've ever had. Ben's in Brighton. Ben, question or answer? Hello, James. I have an answer for you. Carry on, Ben. The answer is on. Why do we say boo? To make people jump. Or why does the word boo make people jump? I think you were correct when you said plosive. I think you were close there. I think it's a phonetic type of answer. There's different types of consonants and so be. That starts off boo is called a plosive or a stop because it's created with a buildup of air that's suddenly released. It's actually a bilabial meaning. Both of the lips are involved. A bilabial plosive. P is another one, but that's unvoiced. So B is voiced and P is unvoiced. The maximum bang for your buck. You could you do a, you do a voiced. Do we know why? Why does it make us jump more than. A bit more than, you know, if you play the sound of an explosion. Yeah. You turned the volume up on it gradually. You know, that that would have. That wouldn't make you jump as much as it would with a sudden. You know, that the sudden release or even, even. Because this would probably have an evolutionary explanation. So even before explosions, it would be. Right, a crack of a twig in the woods or something? Yes, exactly. That if something fell out of a tree or something was. Or a rock. A rock hitting a rock, that kind of thing. So it probably comes down to that. It's the nearest articulable sound to something in the wild that is dangerous. I wonder if the word be would do the same thing, because that's a different. Because the vowel is different. So if you show a bee at somebody be, I wonder if the boo is also important. I think boo is scarier than bee, actually, but I don't know. You've answered the question. What are your qualifications? Oh, I studied some linguistics at university, so I'm drawing on that. I'm also wondering if people in other cultures also say boo. Like, is that like in other languages? Yeah. So am I now. But it's 1256. We haven't, we haven't got time to go down new avenues of inquiry. Ben, take your round of applause and be grateful for it. All right, thank you very much. Ben in Brighton, going definitive on boo, which for fans of alliteration was quite a moment. Jackson Bilderstone. Jack, question or answer? I've got an answer. Top man. What is it? To the question, where does helium come from? Yes. So helium is made in stars. When two hydrogen nuclei combine, that creates a helium nuclei, because it will have the right number of protons and neutrons. And then some, a long time ago in the past, exploded in a supernova, and that caused the helium within it to be spread probably throughout our galaxy. And then when the earth formed around the sun, it took on this helium that was from the supernova, and then that got that. Yeah. So when the earth formed, that became part of the Earth's crust, and then that's how we dig it up and get it today. So it's deposited in the earth, is it? Some is, there are you can get from the earth, but there's also a lot coming from our sun as it creates helium by using hydrogen. Oh, okay. What are your qualifications, mate? That's an absolutely brilliant answer. Thank you. I'm just very interested in science. Well, I knew that that was kind of obvious, wasn't it? And I mean, that is a really clever answer. So thanks ever so much. Jack, would you like a round of applause? Yes, thank you very much. You're very welcome. I've got to stop asking people if they want a round of applause because it makes it feel a bit inadequate. Jack, that was brilliant. James, is an edgeware. Question or answer, James? Answer. Carry on, mate. Well, as the lightning strikes the water, the energy slowly diffuses, so it becomes less and less powerful the more it spreads out. So that's why only the sea creatures, right, where the lightning struck, get injured. But otherwise the energy just diffuses as it spreads out. So it's like if you've got a really huge piece of toast but only a small amount of butter, by the time you've spread that little bit of butter all over the huge piece of toast, you're not actually going to be able to taste the butter anywhere. Yeah, there'll be barely anyone to spread out. Yeah, that's it. You're a genius. What was that? What are your qualifications? I'm twelve and I'm in year eight. And you read it in a book? I read it in a book. I knew you were a child. I didn't know you were in year eight. You've got yourself a round of applause. That's a brilliant answer. Thank you. No, thank you. Great name you've got there as well, James. Very quickly. I'm sure Sheila won't mind. Chris is in Moswell Hill. Question or answer, Chris? It's Charlie and Norwich. But anyway, how did you know? How do you know? I was talking to you. Anyway, we're out of time. Answer the question. Why did judges wear wigs? It's derived from anonymity. It was part of a larger uniform and the wig has just become a mainstay. So that they couldn't. So that you couldn't identify a judge outside of the courtroom and maybe wreak revenge for the heavy sentences that he'd handed down to your favorite uncle. Basically. Yeah, I should think so. Round of applause for Charlie. Thank you, mate. And apologies to Matilda, the only one we didn't answer. Why don't they have safety caps on wine bottles, Matilda? I shall try and find out for you and reveal it next week. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. As the time approaches 01:00 here's Sheila. I'll have tributes too, and memories of Dame Vera Lynn for you between now and it's deadline day for a level students wanting to go to university. Today's the day they must accept, decline or defer their offers. So what kind of student life can they have? Are you wrestling with your decision? From three? From two, the foreign secretary and the symbolism of taking the knee. He didn't quite get it. But first I want to return to the dilemma of a schooling. Whenever you think of Boris Johnson blaming labour for schools remaining closed, there are warnings of a lot generation coming thick and fast, from pediatricians, from parents and even Prince Charles. What will it take to get them up and running?