Why do some eggs have chickens in? - 11 Jun 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Allow me to issue my weekly guarantee, my copper bottomed, gold standard, silver plated guarantee. You will know more by 01:00 than you do now. Promise? Seriously? Honest? Absolutely honest to God, I can't promise you'll be remotely grateful for the information that you glean or the knowledge that you accrue. I can't promise in any way, shape or form that it will prove in any way useful to you in the future. It often does, but that's not part of the guarantee. The guarantee is this and this alone, a guarantee that has never once been broken. You will know more by 01:00 than you do now if you carry on listening to LBC. Why? Because this is a celebration of knowledge. A celebration of whose knowledge? Well, kind of like everybody's. It's a sort of nostalgic stroll back to a world without search engines and smartphones, where if you wanted to know something, you had to ask someone, or possibly look it up, but you're not allowed to look it up. That's one of the things I should make absolutely clear. No works of reference, whether printed or digital, a world where, a little bit like ringing your granddad or asking your mum, you just get knowledge from a fellow human being. I love it. The way it works is this. You ring a number zero 345-606-0973 with your question. Someone else will answer it. What sort of questions? Well, the only rules we've got, they can't be boring and they can't be repetitive. So repetitive. I guess you're not going to know, if you're new to mystery hour, that it's a question we've dealt with before. Dullness you probably could work out in advance. Before ringing, I only mentioned this because it gets so busy, so if it's a question about motoring, I'd save you tenpence. Seriously, what else is almost always dull? It's hard to say, but you know the best way I can think of describing it. If you can't really imagine anyone else being interested in the answer to your question except you, it's not for mystery hour. Already I sound unpleasant. It's nothing worse than a radio phone in house discouraging people from ringing in. So I'll stop. If you've got a who, a why, a where, a when, a whither a whence or a wherefore is your chance to get an answer. I will only say the number when I have phone lines free because so many people are not, put it them. I haven't done as many mystery as we have because so many people have to be politely invited to hang up and try again next week. It means that for the first ten or 20 minutes of the program in particular, the turnover of calls into the studio is huge. I get a lot of complaints that you can't get through, and I don't know either why. Some people seem to get through every week and some people can never get through. But judicious use of redial's got to be more use than dialing out the full number every time. And if you hear me say the number or you hear me say goodbye to someone, then that is freeing up a phone line, potentially for you. Otherwise, just suck it and see. Seriously, if you're new to this, have a listen. You'll soon work out that it veers routinely from the sublime to the ridiculous, from the absurd to the profoundly intellectual. And if you hear someone ask a question to which you know the answer, zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need as well. I'll ask you what your qualifications are, but that doesn't mean you've got to have a PhD in astrophysics. It might just be that you were watching telly last night and the answer popped up in the course of your view. Phil's in Sunbury with the first question of this week. Phil, what's it going to be? Why does milk not go off inside the cow, but if you take it when you've got it, if you don't put it in the fridge, leave it out, it'll go off. But inside a cow in the sun, like today, when the sun's shining, cows ain't got refrigerated others, have they? I don't believe that. I think that's a fairly uncontroversial observation, Phil. I'm yet to encounter a cow with a refrigerated other. But it might. I mean, sure, there's one somewhere. If you build it, they will come. Phil, you know what? Why do you. Why? Why do what? Why do you want to know if. Why milk doesn't go off in just last week? I don't know why. I just. When you do it. When you doing this last week, this was the question that popped into your head. You've been sitting there all week waiting to get it on the board. Yeah. And I just. And I'm just woke up, so I just thought. I went to work nights. I'm not a lazy saying, so you don't have to justify yourself to me. It's not the breakfast show, mate. Yeah, I know. 3 million people out there think that lazy. He's just got a bed. And how do you know it's true? How do you know? How do you know if you left the cow for long enough, the milk wouldn't go off in the others? Well, not being fun, not being a farmer. Well, that could be the art. Maybe the milk does go, because I know that it only. They'll keep lactating, they'll keep producing milk for as long as you keep milking them. If you stop milking them, event they will stop lactating because the others can't. I mean, a cow can't milk itself. So if you leave a cow on milk, if you have an impeccable authority, straight from the cow's mouth. If. Try the veal. If. No, not the veal. That's completely inappropriate in these circumstances. Pull the other one. Pull the other one. Yeah, all right, Phil, stop it now, mate. Seriously, I'll crack on with this. So there's two questions. Does it actually go off? And if not, why not? Yeah, you're on. I'll see what I can do. It's nine minutes after twelve. There you go. I told you you'd get an early indication of the relationship between the sublime and the ridiculous during this feature. Alex is in Lewisham. Alex, question or answer? It's a question, Jane. Carry on. I was in the shower the other day and I turned around, there was a spider just on top of the shower unit. And I was wondering, do they have a different sort of way that they see so that you get, like an upside down view or is it. Is it all normal to them whether they're on a wall or a ceiling or a floor? Do you understand what I mean? Not quite, but I'm close. Try again. So they've got. They've got one brain and they've got however many eyes, but they have an upside down. Is it like. Or do they have, like, a side view? Does everything look normal to them? Like we look at every. Like if we. So the spider's eyes work the same as ours? Yeah, kind of. Kind of. So because spiders spend a lot of their time upside down. Exactly. But then they're equally likely to be the right way up. How will the world appear to them from those two different perspectives? What. What makes you think it would be any different from how we see the world? I don't know, but you know, I mean it was. I was in the shower and I was thinking about you obviously. And you know, I just, I saved my question for mystery out. Did you scream? No, no. I love spiders. Do you? You love spider. And had you been, um. How can I put this politely? I'm just sort of thinking that you saw a spider and you found yourself. Oh man. I wonder if it sees the world upside down or the right way up or just the same way as human beings do. I just. What you been doing immediately before having a shower, Alex? I think I've just been, I've been making my omelette for my lunch. Okay. And you know, there was nothing I hadn't. No, I mean I appreciate what you're saying, James, I appreciate that, but that's not relevant in this case. Not particularly in this case, no. I think I was pretty headed the night before as well. You won't think my hairs are like my antennae to another world. I'll get you an answer, Alex. I was probably watching, I was probably watching tree detective the night before, which always sends my mind spiral. Fair enough, fair enough. It's eleven minutes after twelve. Why does milk inside a cow not go off? Indeed. Is that even true? And how do spiders see the world? The same as us? Or in some special spider way? Adam's in Knightsbridge. Question or answer, Adam. Here's a question for you James. Yes. The question is when do you take a picture of yourself when you take a selfie compared to when you look at yourself in the mirror? I think I look moderately less attractive when I look at the selfie than in the mirror. So you look better in a mirror? You look better in the mirror than you do in a photo? I think so, yeah. I think a lot of people will be familiar with this phenomenon. Is it, is it, is it not just to do with light? I'm not sure. I mean, I know it's a mirror image, obviously, but if you do a screenshot when you're taking this off, you get the mirror. Well, yeah, but when you say you're less handsome, even less handsome than usual, Adam, do you mean that your face actually looks different or do you just mean that you didn't realize you had that extra chin and you look a bit pale, do you see what I mean? Is it the physiology you're describing or the kind of decoration? I don't know. I think maybe. Yeah. Mixture of both. Perhaps because a tinted mirror you're always going to look better in a tinted mirror if you're pale like me. That's true. But equally in a mirror, your face is reversed. I like this. Yeah. Why does Adam look better in the mirror than he does in his selfies? You're going to have to send me a selfie now to at Mister James Ob, for the purposes of clarification, do I send a mirror image one or the actual one? You are. Do I send a mirror image one or the actual one? You might have to send both so that we can make a proper comparison. The selfie is how other people see you, isn't it? That's why this is quite an interesting question. See that? Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. Yeah. So you're better looking in your own head than you are in your own world. And I think a lot of it is when you see people take pictures of themselves in the mirror as a selfie. I think that's why they do it, because then they. Because then that's the mirror image that they lima. You might be right, actually. God. Yeah. Otherwise why on earth would anybody do it? Especially the phone. You just hit a button on it these days. Oh, I like this. I like this a lot. I don't know who'll be qualified to answer it, but if they exist, we'll find them. Thank you, Adam. Bazir is in. Egham Bazir. Question or answer? It's an answer. Okay. It's an answer to the milk skull. I mean, why does it not go off in the. Inside the cow's body? Well, I think it has got the same. It's the same with human blood and human sperm inside the human body, because both of them is controlled, in my opinion, because I've got no degrees, nothing. It's just. Yeah, I was kind of getting an impression. Both the milk in the blood is controlled, the temperature and all controlled by the body. And the body is so sensitive and so good enough to. I mean, to hold it for the period required. So there's the same with the sperm, why your sperm doesn't go off or why the sperm can. Stop saying sperm, will you? Seriously. It's almost like you just rang in to say it. Lots. I'm not going to give you a round of applause because you just made that up. Yeah. I mean, it's the same with blood as well. Blood and milk. If I say blood, it's much better. The temperature has been controlled by the body and that's why the current smell doesn't go off while it is inside the body. That's just rubbish. Do you think that? Yeah. Well, do you need anything better, though? What? Probably. Probably, yeah. But I don't want to show off. And you must recognize on some level that that is a really rubbish. I mean, isn't it a bit common sense because the body controls the milk and that's why it doesn't go up. I think. I mean, I can't think of anything better now. No, you make a valid point. And is it Bazir or bashir? Bazir. I have to make a confession to you. The more that I mock somebody for a rubbish answer, the more likely it is that ten minutes from now, someone else will ring in and make me feel like an idiot and make you sound like a genius. So I have to. I have to preface all of my mockery and giggling with that admission and prediction. But at the moment, Bozia, that is just pants, my friend. It's 12 15. 20 minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. I think we'll just crack straight on, shall we? Why does milk stay? Why does milk inside a cow not go off? How does spiders see? Imagine if you've just tuned into this and you're expecting some sort of highfalutin political analysis. You kind dip in and out of LBC. Relatively new arrival, not familiar with mystery out. What did I just. What did he just say, the bloke on the radio? Why does milk inside a cow not curdle? Yeah, that's what I just said. You got a problem with that? Yeah. I also want to know how spiders see the world when they're upside down and when they're the right way up. Do they see the world differently? Do they see the world like we do? Or do they have a unique spidery perspective? And why does Adam look ugly in his selfies, but gorgeous in the mirror? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those, or indeed, if you have a question of your own. Let's go to Richmond next. Is there Christine, question or answer? Hi, James. Hi, Christine. Excellent. Okay. I've been thinking about this for a while. Yeah, I'm a bit nervous to ring through, but I thought, you know what? I'm going to go for it after the milk question. Yeah, fair play. Set the bar low that, didn't it? Yeah. So we've all got different sized heads, so does that mean we have different sized brains? And if we do, does that give anyone an advantage over another person, but just tiny bit I guess. So the question is, really, does brain size determine intelligence? Yeah. And do we actually have different sized brains if we've got different sized heads, or do we all have the same sort of size? Well, they must be different sized brains if you've got different size. What sort of. What sort of size is your head? Small to medium. Yeah. That's not pretty good, is it? So I've got an enormous head, in both senses of the word. That could explain why you're so intelligent. Well, no, I just. Big headed, I think, is probably the phrase that most people would reach for first. So does the size of your. Does the size of your head reflect the size of your brain? And does the size of your brain determine your intelligence in any way? Yes. I like that question. What do you think? What do your instincts tell you as someone with a small to medium sized head? See, my instincts would tell me if there was an advantage, then we would already know about it. Maybe. What do you mean? Well, they might put kids with a smaller size head in a different class than kids with a bigger size head, measure their size, their head when they start a score, and then put them. So we could do away with exams and we could just grade kids by head size. Yeah. Yeah. Are you sure it's small to medium, your head, Kristen? Yeah, right. What? I think it's small to medium. Okay. Standing next to someone with a big sized head. Are you now standing next to someone with a big sized head? Well, I'm looking in the mirror. Right. That's still the same head. Yeah, I know, but it's quite a small mirror. I think it's sort of quite small to medium. How big is the mirror, though? It's a full size length mirror. All right, then is it a different image? If we go back to the other guy's question about selfies and mirror, would I have a bigger size head looking in the selfie than I would in the mirror? And what would a spider see? Oh, that's a whole different spider. Probably think I have a massive head. Spy spiders probably think you have a massive head because they're so small. All right, let's find out. What was the question again? Yeah. Oh, yeah. Heads and brains. Heads and brains. Heads and brains. All right, leave it with me. Christina. Brett's in here. Hertford. Brett, question or answer? I've got an answer for you. Come on, Brett. It's the answer for the cow and the milk question. I was sitting there laughing, hearing the previous call with his explanation how he was so confident of his answer. I just couldn't help myself to laugh. Oh, thank goodness for that. I thought I might have been coming across as condescending. Yeah, just analyze his answer quickly. I mean, he was talking about the body cooling itself off in a regulated temperature. Well, your body regulates is what, 98.6 degrees? Yeah, that's kind of. That's kind of warm for milk, isn't it? It is, yeah. But, you know, no one likes a smart house, Brett. Sorry, sorry. All right, the real answer. The real answer is because the inside of our bodies is a sterile environment. And the reason and the way that we get that is through our immune system that kills off bacteria and viruses and whatever else. Once you. Once you extract that milk from the cow, you then expose it to bacteria in the environment. However carefully you do it, or whatever sort of laboratory conditions you observe, you're going to get some bacteria into the bottle and that is what is going to make the milk go off. And that's the actual purpose for pasteurization as well, is to kill off whatever you can. Of course it is, yeah. And that's why you keep it at cooler temperatures, to inhibit the growth of that bacteria as well. I like it a lot. What are your qualifications, Brett? I don't have any, really. I just paid attention to science class when I was about ten years old. No, that's your qualification. It doesn't need to be sort of on a certificate or a piece of paper. You could have just seen it on the telly last night, but this, you just picked it up at school. That's fine. And it's a lovely answer and it makes perfect sense. And if Bazir. If Bazir feels that he was unfairly treated, we have to just remind him of two things. The body temperature, as you rightly point out, is hot. And he never mentioned the word bacteria. Ah, true. Round of applause for Brett. Is that the first one of today? Oh, well played, Brett. Congratulations, mate. Max is in London Bridge. Max, question or answer? Answer. Come on, then. To do with the selfie one. I'm a photographer, so I think that qualifies me. The reason why we always look strange in selfies is because the cameras on the camera phones have a wide angle lens and because of the proximity when you take a selfie, hence why there's invented selfie sticks. And being a bit further away, it looks a lot better. I don't like this answer, Max. Sorry. Well, I don't think it's right. I don't think it's what the quote. I think you're probably technically correct. In some sense, but I don't think that's what Adam was after, because Adam doesn't feel that his head has been in any way elongated or kind of fisheye lens. It's not just. It just doesn't look as handsome. It just doesn't look as handsome in a selfie. It's perspective and angle. Stay there, stay there, because I've got Wiley on the line in Rainer's lane, and between the two of you, well, one of you might get over the line. Wiley, what have you got? Hey, I've got a slightly different answer. I got it from actually. I'll give you the answer first and I'll tell you how I got it. Your face is never symmetrical. Apparently, the more symmetrical your face is, the more attractive you are. So when you look in the mirror, you're seeing the inverse of what everyone else sees, similar to how ambulances and firing have their word in back to front. So when you look in the mirror, you're seeing the opposite to what everyone else sees, whereas when you look at a picture, you're looking at what people actually see when they see you. So if you have one of these apps on your phone where you can flip a picture, it will actually look how you look in the mirror. So why would Adam and many others be convinced that they look better looking in a mirror when they're actually not looking like they look to the rest of the world? Well, it's not better looking, it's more people look at it and think, oh, I look a bit odd. And they kind of see it as looking less. More ugly, I guess. Well, because they're just used to seeing themselves in a mirror a lot more than they are to seeing themselves in a photograph. Yeah. So they just look. I think I look. I think I look quite hot in the mirror sometimes. I never look hot in photographs. It's what you're more used to seeing. Yeah. Is that so, Max? Does that tally with what you say or is that a completely different answer? No, no, no, I agree with that. I agree with that completely. I think it's a combination of the two answers. Yes, I do as well. I'm going to give you both a round of applause. Oh, hang on. Wiley, what are your qualifications? How do you know this? I've just got my wedding pictures back and the photographer explained it to us. Oh, congratulations, mate. When was the big day? 22nd or 3 March, I think it's 22nd. You might want to just clarify that before your first anniversary comes around. In the meantime, please accept this, which you have to share with Max. Yeah, that's really sound advice that, Wiley. Just clarify whether it was the 22nd or the 23rd before the first. Is it paper, the first anniversary? I'm not sure, but the date is crucially important. It's coming up to 1229. You're listening to Joe. Oh, I could just squeeze in. Stuart and Cricklewood before the news. Question or answer, Stuart. It's a question. Vital question. Yes, historical question. I've worried about this for many, many years. Get on with it. Marco Polo went to China and started trading between China and Italy many years ago. Now, did he take spaghetti to China or did he pick up noodles from China and take them to Italy? Mate, have a round of applause. Best question of the day so far. Ha ha. How long have you been puzzling over this? Oh, yeah, that's just brilliant. Could it be none of the above? Could it be neither? Could it just be a historical coincidence, a sort of culinary evolution? Two people discovered the same one? Well, it's flour and water, mate. I mean, it's. It's. I mean, we've got bread of different kinds popping up all over the world at different times. It could just have happened. Yeah, but could there be a link? I love it. What came first? Did the Romans import noodles or did the Chinese import spaghetti? Zero. 345-606-0973 well played, Stuart. 12:30 33 minutes after twelve. As that bulletin just reported, a 14 year old boy is still being sought by police after the stabbing of a teacher at that school in Bradford. Alice Bailey is live for LBC at Dixon's King's Academy school and she joins me on the line now. What do we know, Alice? Well, as you said, police are still looking for this 14 year old. The school here in Bradford is open. As usual, police are reassuring parents that there's no risk to either staff or to anybody else in the school at the moment. So it's pretty much business as usual. Inside, outside, anything but. Dozens of reporters literally speaking to every single parent that passes and the ones I've spoken to say they think this is a good school. Never had any concerns about safety here, though Ofsted does say it does require improvement in all areas. The moms I've spoken to who have daughters here say they think it is improving, that they're not concerned in the slightest. They were very, very shocked. They'd not actually heard the news. The unusual thing is many of the parents here are actually hearing the news from the journalists and the reporters. I think there's well over a dozen now outside, but yet, as it stands, the teacher remains stable in hospital and we still believe that this 14 year old boy, police are searching for him and he would of course have been in school uniform when he absconded. Many thanks indeed, Alice Bailey. More on that story throughout the day on LBC as it develops. On a altogether lighter note, John. Hell, very funny. This I mentioned a moment ago when the last caller had forgotten when he got married, 23rd or the 24 May. I suggested he wanted to clarify the date before his first anniversary comes around and said, is the first anniversary paper emailed JamesBC dot co dot UK to say. Just for a moment there, James, I thought you said that the first wedding anniversary was PayPal and I suddenly felt very, very old. Not yet, John, not yet. Tony's in Brixton. Back to mystery. Our question or answer? Tony? Question. Carry on. All right, you got the sea and the ocean, we all know that. Yeah. So when the tide comes in and then it goes out, where does it go? Where does the sea go? When the tide goes? When it goes out, where does it go? Okay, um. Does it go to the other, the other side of the ocean? Basically that. So one side comes in and the other one goes out, vice versa? Well, yeah. Are you sure? Well, yeah. Well, I'm not sure about loads of people no one seems to know. Well, you know. No, I'm not sure that's the right, that's the right answer, Tony. Is it? Yeah. All right then. Well, I've got answers there, though. What? I've got answer for your brain question. No, you can't do that, you can't. Come on, ask a rubbish question, answer it yourself and then have a crack at the brain size versus head size question. Well, that was just as simple as this one then, really. No, nothing. Was those then? To be honest with you, I'm not sure. I'm 100% not sure. How big is your head, Tony? The average, like everyone else's. Are you sure? Yeah, positive. All right. Okay, I'm going to take your word for it, but think of it like, um. What? Just think of it like the bath, you know, and then get the, get the water like wobbling and it goes up at one end and down at the other. Right? And then it goes up at the other end and down at the other end. The amount of water remains the same. It's, it's, um, distribution changes with the tides, that's all. So the tide will come in, in, I don't know, Spain and go out in England or whatever it is. So basically. So England, the tide goes out. And France. The tide has come in. Yeah, pretty much. Oh, I'm gonna check that one, but. All right, go for it. Give yourself a round of applause then. You're not getting a round of applause. I'm getting a round of applause. Thank you very much. I will. No problem. All right, have a good one, man. Thank you. Take care, mate. Sam's in Twickenham. Sam, question or answer? I've got an answer, hopefully. Carry on, Sam. It's about noodles coming from China to Italy or vice versa. Exactly. Well, the Chinese are masters of invention. And they came up with noodles first. And it is believed that it was through trade, possibly Marco Polo or that might be a little sort of apocryphal, but basically it was traded back to Europe. So it was. Yeah. Chinese first. Love it. Qualifications? Well, there's a few. I study history at university. How do you know this? Where did you pick this up, this gleam, this bit of knowledge? Well, I used to do German as well. And they call spaghetti nudel so it's sort of like noodles are that. And I just looked into it and it was kind of. I love this. I think this is a brilliant answer. And it makes perfect sense because the Chinese were way ahead of the field, weren't they, with gunpowder and all that malarkey. So it's perfectly plausible that they'd have been ahead of the pack on carbohydrates as well. Absolutely. And it's earned you this. You didn't say you used to be German. You said you used to do German, didn't you? I used to study German. Sorry, it's just Jones, the engineer, is getting old. I had to clarify that for him. He was just bleating in my ear. What does he mean, he used to be german? He didn't say he used to be German. He said he used to do Germany. Sam, banker, it's 1239. Ethan is in Watford. Ethan, question or answer? Question. How old are you, Ethan? Ten. Well, welcome aboard. What's the question? How do we know if it's. If a chick is in an egg or not an egg? So we could, say, eat the egg. So when you get an egg, how do you know whether or not it might have a chick in it? Yeah, okay. Who are you with at the moment, Ethan? My dad. Can you put your dad on for a minute? Okay, what's. Hang on. Ethan. What's his name? Mark. All right. Can I speak to Mark quickly? Okay. All right. Hello? Mark, mate. Hello. Hi. It's. I mean, it's all about sex, isn't it? And fertilization. And I don't feel, I don't feel comfortable talking to your ten year old son about chicken sex. So I thought, I thought about. Clarify with an appropriate adult what you wanted me to do with maybe not appropriate, but an adult. Yeah. Yeah. So how do you want me to play this straight? What? Tell him. Really? Yeah. All right. Okay. Now, fair play. Put him back on. Yeah, go on in. All right. Hello. Hi, Ethan. If you've got a daddy chicken and a mummy chicken, then the chances are that the egg will have been what's called fertilized and then it might have a chick in it, but most of the eggs, because I used to keep chickens in my back garden and we only had lady chickens. And if you only have. If you. If you keep all men chickens out of the picture, then all of the eggs will be eatable eggs. But if there's a man chicken around a cockerel, then the eggs might be fertilized. So what they do in farms, believe it or not, is they have really powerful lights which can, which shine through the shell and you can see inside whether or not there's a little chick forming. But it's all to do with kind of like male and female chicken. Is that a good answer? Yes. Good man. Thanks, Ethan. I'm gonna get this. Round of applause is not for me. All right. I'm gonna give it to you as a special treat. Thanks, Ethan. Thanks, Mark. Jerome Syncreton Jerome. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. I wanted to ask, why do police ride on horses? Why do you want to ask that? What are you confused about? Well, a couple months ago I was. I was in Lewisham and I was stuck on a road behind two police on horses? Yeah. And I just couldn't help but think, why. Why are you on a horse? Like, it's. Why are you on a horse? Yeah. I know this, but I'm surprised you. Have you ever been to Wembley on a match day or anything like that? No. Have you ever been so near riot riots or marches or anything like that? No. Because what you would need to do to replace the horse in the context of policing a crowd, you'd have to have something that left the policeman that high up because he can see the view. And the horse is also, obviously it's mobile, but it's also, it's like a mobile barrier, a horse. So if you, if you're trying to shepherd people in a certain direction, if you're trying to do it on foot, you're not going to get anywhere near as far as you're going to get on a horse, and if you're trying to get a view at the back of a crowd and you're at the front of it, you need to be ten foot in the air like you are when you're on a horse. Okay, I understand that, but this was like a side road. No, I know, mate. But they've got to get from a to b and they've got to give the horses a bit of exercise. All right, fair enough. So they go around on a horse because it's high up, it's very, very mobile, and it's really good for crowd control. You know what? I just thought, if there was a crime to happen right now, what would you do on your horse, like? Well, that's a. That's a fair point. They'd probably ring someone in a car. Yeah, fair enough. So you just had images of them going down Croydon high street like the Lone Ranger. Yeah, yeah. Well, obviously you've never seen that for a reason. Yeah, yeah. All right, all right. Give yourself round of applause. Thank you very much. Oh, it's one of those Thursdays where I could do this right through till Friday, but we've only got 15 minutes left. If you want to get involved, you know what to do. Piers is in Chelmsford. Piers. Question or answer? Question, please. We need some more answers. Let me go. Okay, go on. What's your question? I want to know why, if the sun is essentially a big ball of flames, why, if I lie next to the fire, I don't get a suntan. Ultraviolet light, that's all. It's ultraviolet light. It's not a big ball of flames, it's a new, clear explosion. So there's no. So there's no ultraviolet light in a normal flame. Correct. Oh, well, that was a bit shorter and sweeter than I hoped. It works for me because I get one of these. Yeah. Let's see. So it's not complete. It's not a completely wasted exercise, Piers. Take care, mate. It's coming up to 1245. I need to know whether there's any relationship between head size, brain size and intelligence. I love the noodles. Question, how does spiders, and they're the only ones left. Is it spiders and brains? Christina's brain and the spider? I think so. How do spiders see the world? I haven't answered that many. Lots of other answers as well. I can't help knowing stuff. It's the size of my head. 1245. I'm Amy Solomon in the LBC travel center. If you're heading clockwise on the m 20, it's 1249. What's the relationship between head size, brain size and intelligence? And how do spiders see? As in, do they see the world as we see it? Or the. I don't know, the sort of upside downness come into play. Daniel's in Enfield. Daniel, question or answer? Yeah, question, please, David. Why don't trains have seatbelts on? Do you know, it's a weird. It's a. It's a brilliant question, that, but it's quite a depressing answer. It's just a cost benefit analysis. Right? So they just. They just, you know, you would. If you were involved in a train crash, you would probably be safer if you had a safety belt on, but it cost. It would cost much to install them all. And B, train crashes are relatively rare, so the decision has just been taken not to make it law. Remember, it didn't even used to be law in cars that you had to wear them. She's been overcooked. Where's my seatbelt? There's not a seatbelt. So she asked why there wasn't one. Oh, bless her. But that is it. I mean, I guess the option isn't there either, but it's because there's no law that says it. I like that. I do like that question. It's the same reason why I was at Westminster on the Jubilee line last night. It's the same reason why we don't have those special doors at every single station that would prevent anyone from ever falling under a train, because it just costs more. And they decide that, you know, the three people that die a year in those sort of circumstances, that's a price worth paying for the money you save by not turning every single London underground station into a completely safe one. It's quite as. What I mean by depressing. Cheers, Daniel. Charlie's at Heathrow. Charlie, question or answer? An answer. Go on. Okay, so the tight, you know, the tide question. Oh, no, Stuart's inquiry. Yeah, yeah, that was. That was completely wrong. They know how the tides work at all. Oh, mate. So we laughed at Tony and effectively accused him of having a small brain. Oh, mate. All right, carry on. So the. The moon has a gravitational pull over body water. Yeah. It moves water closer to it. Yes. Okay. And it happens all across the world, because if you imagine, like, the earth is floating and the moon is above it. Yes. It pulls. It pulls. The. The water that's closest to it really could blow towards the moon just, just, just to tight, just incrementally. But in such a large body of water, then you'd see the reaper. So as the moon rotates around, the earth is the best way to think of it. The moon is, but also. Also on the bottom of the world, where there's also still water. It doesn't pull, because that's a fluid. It can. It can sink. It can sink more. So the earth is pulled a little bit, the water on the top is pulled a lot, and the water at the bottom isn't pulled at all. So that creates a high tide at the bottom because of gravity. Are you. Are you. Are you boycotting the letter t for a reason? No, that was just how it works. It's just how it works. So when the tide goes out on one side of an ocean, what's happening on the other side? It depends on where it is, but it's most likely going out as well. Oh, blimey. So we got it completely, completely wrong. Completely wrong. Jones. It goes up. Jones. I can't believe you gave me that answer in my ear. So, nothing like a bath? No, not like a bath. Unless the bath had a moon above it. Then it could be like a bath. Nice answer. Yes. You can try this at home by doing a moon above your bath. What are your qualifications, Charlie? I'm studying a diploma in engineering. Good. At physics. Yeah, he's done it. It's done me. There you go. I shall remove, surgically, the round of applause I received for this and pass it on to you about the normal round of applause that sounded double. Was that a double bubble? Why does he get a double bubble for that? I've never had a double bubble. Ian's in a question or answer. Oh, it's an answer, James. Carry on. Regarding brains. Yes, yes. Way back in the victorian times, they tried to answer it by measuring the skull and whatever, and they came up with a technique called phrenology. Right. Which measures the side of the head. That's it. Yeah, I remember this. And it bumps and whatever. So every time you see a psychologist, they have a plastic head sit beside them, all marked up and all marked out with certain qualities. Relationship doesn't work, so there's no relationship between size and intelligence. They're all brains around about eight energies, plus or minus two. Intelligence, as you know, is a mixture of nature and nurture. Yeah. So Einstein, I think. I'm told Einstein had quite a small brain, but it had lots and lots of folds and it was removed for study after his death, Karen in Pinner tells us. Yeah, but you're only going to get that after death. I mean, how are you going to use that as a day to day? Find out how? Fold. What are your qualifications, Ian? Oh, I was in brain research. Brain research. What do you do. Where do you do your brain research? Unit for research into brain metabolism. Department of Pharmacology, Edinburgh University. Get in. What's your. Do you have an. What's your. I mean, are you a professional academic now? No, I'm retired. I jumped to the pants and sold pharmaceuticals for 30 odd years. If you build it, they will come, Ian. Thank you for that, mate. That's a lovely answer, and I'm very grateful for it. Christina in Richmond now knows for certain that the size of her head has no impact whatsoever upon her intelligence. Caroline's in gold. Is green. Caroline, question or answer? Hello. It's a question, but I could put two cent in about the spider if you like. No. Fine. The question is yes. I'll try to keep it brief. How do you know that, let's say two people are seeing the exact same color? Because you could say, go and buy me a red top. And they do bring one. But, you see, you've just assigned a word to a shade. So how do you know that children you don't, you know, are seeing the same color? I mean, you might do with. With those tests to see who's colorblind. But what if you're not colorblind enough? Like, how do they test who's colorblind? There is no there's. When you say red, you might be seeing what I call green. There is no. There's no. I mean, it's a brilliant question. It's a philosophical conundrum, I think, because. Thank you. Because me and my boyfriend have always waited until a good time to call you. I really appreciate it. I think Wittgenstein did something on, on the attribution of descriptive nouns. I can't. Someone did. But there is no earthly way you can prove that you and I see the same color when we both say red. But you see, I was hoping you. You might shine a light, because there. Well, I have. It's just not the light you wanted. But aren't there those tests with opticians where there's. There's all these colored dots, and if you are colorblind, you don't see the red seven in the middle. I don't know. You do mean you tell. You know more about this than I do. Why are you ringing in? Oh, because I thought somebody would explain why you do the test and what they're looking for. That's too complicated. I mean, we've only got three minutes left. But if anyone understands the question and wants to answer it, I'll free up a phone line for them now. All right. Well, maybe. Maybe. But it is. I mean, I think philosophically there is no way of proving that two people both seeing and saying red are actually seeing exactly the same color. If you take philosophy to its ultimate conclusion with the Descartes angle, then all you know for certain is that your own mind exists. You don't even know that your boyfriend exists, or that anybody else exists, or the radio exists, or that your body exists. You could just be a brain in a vat, imagining everything, including colors. Mike, does that cheer you up on a Thursday afternoon? Mike's in Barbican. Mike, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. We've only got a minute left. Be quick. Two minutes, actually. You're all right. Take your time. Okay. Sorry, a bit nervous. First time call. It's to do with the spiders. The reason they don't. How they see the world. Yes. The gist of it is that most of them don't. They have very poor vision, but they kind of sense their way through vibrations on the web. But how do they sense anything when they're not on a web? Is that vibrations as well? Kind of. I mean, there are certain types of spiders who do have good vision. They're very rare. Like jumping spiders, for example. And they kind of see. Well, they have to look before they leap. Yeah, something like that. But they'll see things like light and movement. They'll see it. Or some actually do sort of see it, supposedly, just like we do. Okay. But so they don't have any special visionary gifts? Quite the opposite, in fact, that. In fact, it makes sense because they don't know whether they're going to be upside down or the right way up or sideways on a wall. So if they're using vibrations, they're using the same senses all the time, whatever their physical position might be. Yeah, kind of. And that. The ones that do have more eyes. So they. The ones that do see it. Brilliant. What are your qualifications, Mike? One of those strange people who like spiders. It doesn't make you strange? Lepidopterist. No. What's that? What's this? What's a spider enthusiast called? Sheila Fogarty? Arachna something. Arachnophile. Arachnophobe. Arachnophile. Is there not a word for people who study spiders? Not that I'm aware of a Spider man. I'm also. I did. I have to admit, I did see the Alice Roberts program on sleeping with spiders. And you live and learn. Yeah, Mike. Round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. We haven't got time for Danny's question, which is a shame, actually. Why is a hot dog called a hot dog? We may get onto it next week. That's it from me for another week. We'll do it again tomorrow. Well, mystery out for another week, me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow. From ten, you're listening to LBC, where Sheila Fogarty will steer you through the afternoon. Thanks.