What time zone is space on? - 18 Feb 16

Three minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to mystery out on LBC, your weekly opportunity to achieve satisfaction. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. But let me take a moment first to give you a quick explainer on exactly what unfolds for the next 56 minutes or so, you will have in the back of your mind almost certainly a question that is in desperate need of an answer. It might be something if you regular mystery act that's popped in in the course of the last week and you thought, oh, I'll save that for first day, one of James's listeners will know the answer for that. Or, if you're new to the feature, it might be something you've been puzzling with for years and you finally found somewhere where you may be able to get the answer that you crave. Well, I think you probably will. So it can be a who, a why, a when, a whither, a wherefore, why do we do this? What happens when you do that? What's the origin of this? What's the origin of that? Who, why, when, whither, wherefore, whence, you name it, you give me an interrogative pronoun. It fits neatly into the mystery hour template. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then you have to ring in and provide it. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need to do that as well. The number remains the same. It's a bit like the radio equivalent of those newspaper features. I say this every week, but I say every week because it's true, where a reader writes in and then waits a few days or a few weeks to get an answer to the question that they've asked. I've got phone lines free. That doesn't always happen. Often we spend the first few minutes of mystery hour doing a little bit of wheat and chaff separation, because people will be ringing in with questions that are either boring or that we've dealt with relatively recently. And Victoria and Caroline have to politely invite such callers to move quickly along. So when I say the number, it means that phone lines free. We'll deal with some of that. Now. I don't think there's anything else to say, really. Don't be boring. And the management's decision is final. If it's a question to which it's possible, only you will be interested in the answer, it probably won't suit our purposes. Don't forget the mystery. Our archive at LBC dot co dot UK comma, where you can not only while away hours of fun and enlightenment, you can also get an idea of whether or not you should ring in with the question you're thinking of ringing in with, because it may have been answered before. Anything else? I can't think of anything else. Can you think of anything else? Quite a few complaints in recent weeks, probably about me getting soft in my old age. So I'm going to be very strict with applause and we're not going definitive until we've gone definitive. And we will try to keep stewards inquiries to a minimum, because in recent weeks I stand accused of being overgenerous with my rounds of applause. Handing them out Willy nilly is a phrase that some of you have employed, and the notion of that. Let's see if I can find one, actually, so that you don't think I'm making this up. Please can we have a bit more proper going definitive this week, says Rob Bayliss, rather than stewards inquiries, which, to be honest, have been creeping in quite a bit, it seems, over the last couple of weeks. Ok, I'm in your hands. Let mystery out commence. Michael's in Camden. Michael, question or answer? Question, please, James, go on. My question is about piggy banks. I'd like to know why they're called a piggy bank. Where is it? Where's the origin of it from? Because I don't understand. Pigs don't have anything to do with money. Why is it not a doggy bank or a monkey bank? You can have a monkey bank if you want, or a doggy bank, but I take your point. Piggy bank is the prevalent isn't something to do with pig clay, isn't. It's the pottery they're made out of. That's piggy rather than. And then it evolved over years to become an actual pig. But I've just said, haven't I, that we're not doing speculations and ludicrous reachings, so I'm going to have to wait for someone else to bring in and go definitive. But if, Michael, if it does turn out to have something to do with the clay rather than the actual porcine creature, just between you and me. Yeah. You'll think a little more of me, right? I'll clap for you. Yeah, that's what I want to hear, Michael. Thank you, mate. Piggy bank. Why? Why piggy? Why piggy, piggy wiggy. That was saying Bill and Ted, isn't it? Piggy Wiggy? When Napoleon's eating that big bowl of. I know anyone anyone? Bueller. Bueller. Anyway, two classic film references there, but I'm working with youngsters. They're all looking at me as if I've gone mad. Sully is in Chiselhurst. Question or answer? Sully. It's a question. James. We actually run you a lovely show, by the way. I do apologize. Thank you. We run you about a year ago, but it was very end of your show. And my son Taylor asked you a question. He said to you, James, the very first leaf to fall off a tree in autumn, will that be the first leaf to grow back? And you said, what a fantastic question. And we put it on the table for next time. And we've been trying ever since to get through, and we. We still want to know to this day, the very first leaf in autumn that falls off. Is it the very first leaf to grow back? That is a brilliant question. Have you been waiting for half term so that you're both there to do it? Or has Chaelyn left home now and got married? No, we've just been. We've just been trying to contact. You understand that some people get through every week, usually people I'd run a mile to avoid. And then some people tell me they can't get through for love nor money. Right, I'll answer the question for you. You're such a popular man. You love that shot. Well, you should read my inbox. Seriously. Silly as ego management going on right there. Right, so obviously he doesn't mean the same leaf. He means that the bit of the tree, that the bud from which the leaf has grown, is that. Does that replicate itself year after year? I think the answer is almost certainly no, but we need an arbitrary ziggy. Piggy. It is on Bill and Ted. Thank you. To the myriad people who've got in touch with something not piggy wiggy. Ziggy piggy. Is it Ziggy piggy? Jerome's in crouch hand. Jerome, question or answer? Clapton, actually, but never mind. Why do I sneeze when I look into the sun? That's what I wanted to know the answer to. Isn't that a bit of a myth? Isn't there just as many people who think that looking into bright light takes away the urge to sneeze, as there are people who've been persuaded that looking into it increases the urge to sneeze? Well, I'm only going on my own experience, and it's definitely. I think it's psychological to me. I think it's psychological. It could be. But you still want to know, don't you? You don't want my bow. That's a wishy washy answer. It is a wishy washy answer, but it covers a lot of ground. It's like osmosis. I'd really like to know the specifics of it, though, because it's definitely a physiological reaction. I can never remember which way round it is. Jerome. So I needed a sneeze this morning in the bathroom. So I had a look at the bathroom light. I'll just leave you all with that image. Just stepped out of the shower. I just. And it didn't work. It didn't bring on my sneeze. And then I thought maybe I got it the wrong way around. You need very bright light. Yeah, that's right. I've got very bright lights in the bathroom, so I had the shaving mirror on. Jerome. Thank you. That's quite enough about my morning ablutions. Ian is in Weybridge. Ian, question or answer? Oh, question, James, actually, me and my mates were talking the other night and we were talking about bats, and we wondered why it is that when bats hang upside down, like, to rest, they don't get ahead. Or do they get. Get head rushes? If you were to hang upside down for even 10 seconds, I reckon you'd want to right yourself because, you know, all the blood rushes to your head. But why does it happen to bats? Well, obviously not, but you want to know why. Yeah. Yeah. So I suppose what is it about bats that means that that doesn't happen? Because they're mammals, aren't they? So the blood. Yeah, that's what I mean. So the blood pumping system, we shouldn't necessarily deliver different conclusions. I can't think of a more. It's not the cleverest mystery, Alice, we got, you know, Jerome sneak. No, it's not your fault, Ian. You've come in on the. On the back of a bad run. Piggy banks. I think we've done before and I think I got it right, but I'm just being a bit pedantic this week. The leaf, the Taylor's leaf question is good, actually. That's a great question. It is a great question. The sneezing question is a little bit. It's a little bit meh. One you've answered before. Don't say that. I've got a new producer and I'm trying not to embarrass her. All of these questions we've done before, but I don't know what to do. You know, we've been. Mystery. I was ten years old. Now I can't expect people to have, I think, the thing to do with that, that. I mean, I think just by working through it, you can figure out why you sneeze when you look at the sun or a bright light. Can you? Well, you can't. Well, hang on. You're not allowed to do that. I just find a cleverer way to ask your questions. Get in a word like physiological or something like that. Go on. No, I can't. Sorry. Oh, come on. Why? What is it about the anatomy that's good of a bat that enables them to sustain pressure, to sustain a lack of pressure in their head while in an inverted sleeping position. Inverted sleeping position? Yes. Very nice. You see, Ian, if you build it, they will come. Good work, all of that. What he said, if you go the answer. Call me now on zero. 345-606-0973 Michael's in Wimbledon. Michael, question or answer? It's an answer, James, to the leaf question. Good man. Go on. And the answer, the straight answer, is no. And why is that? When you observe, in the spring, you will see the buds at the tip of the branch and the first leaf to fall down is at the bottom of the branch in the autumn. And so it's not the same leaf that just fell down into the autumn, that closed the first one into the. Into the spring. Otherwise you'll see all the trees and all the. All the plants. How do you call it? Flowering or leafing or getting the bud. Budding? Yes. Yeah, the budding at the bottom of the branches, which is where the first leaves fall down, the old leaves from the previous year. I love it. Well, what are your qualifications, Michael? Well, first the qualifications is live observing nature gardening and botanics in school. Well, there you go. And it's on you. This tat has been waiting a year for that answer, Michael. You've made a young man very happy there. Although he might have been. He might have been hoping the answer was yes. At least you've gone definitive and he can observe it himself. He'll be able to see. He observes it himself. I love this. I love it. Thank you. 1213 is the time. Questions that still need answers involve bats sneezing and piggy banks. Lee is in Watford. Lee. Question or answer? Hi, James. Great show. What's the relevance of the term or the name Roger and out that the military used to end, obviously, messages when in the forensic Alphabet, R is for Romeo. Roger has no relevance. Where did he come from or why was it used? Roger. Roger. Roger. Roger. Well, they used to say, roger Wilco and things like that. Why Roger? Was Roger not part of the phonetic Alphabet in the. In the olden days and then it changed to Ronco? Not as far as I'm aware. Are you sure about this? I think it's worthy of a little bit more scrutiny. Actually, Lee, I think it may be a little bit more plausible than originally thought. No stood inquiry on that. Yeah. You're not having any of it, are you, Roger? Change it from Roger to Ronco. Why did he change? So Roger? Roger means agreed and understood, though. Yes, but why Roger? Why would you not say agreed and understood or agreed and out. Roger. And out. Roger and out. Radio. So it's radio experts will know the answer to this. It's a radio thing, isn't it, Roger? So you see, it's usually because the words can't be misunderstood. So you could say agreed. They might think you're calling them greedy. I'm not being silly. They could be, Roger. Must. They might be. But you don't want my burblings. It's not as much fun, Lee. You're gonna have to lie to me at the end of this statement. All right. It's not as much fun when I confine myself to not burbling and speculating, is it, Lee? No, it's not. Thank you. It's 1215 minutes after twelve is like being haunted. 18 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour is underway. But I know the question you're thinking, and no, I haven't got an answer to it either, I'm afraid. What I do need to know is the origin of the phrase piggy bank, the sneeze issue and light relationship between bats and inverted sleep. How can a bat lie upside down, sleep upside down without all the blood rushing to their head? And why do we say Roger on the radio? Yes, there might be an air of familiarity to some of these, but we're working through an exciting new period in mystery hours history. Dan's in Southfields. Question or answer? Dan. Hi, James. I've got a question. I've got a question for you. Yes? If you could drink petrol, which you can't, obviously, how many calories would there be in a litre of petrol? Why do you want to know this? I was watching a program the other day with a guy called Brian Cox, making a star on earth, you know, talking about energy. And he was talking and he was saying that one of the reasons we're so hooked on, on petrol, why it's so hard to replace, is because it's so energy dense. But he didn't say how energy dense it was. And obviously you can measure energy in joules or calories. And I thought, well, you know, to put it into. To put some sort of number onto it, there must be a way, you know, if a can of coke is. I don't know what it is, even, you know, two or 300 calories or whatever. Yeah. What would there be or what would there be in a. In a. In a can or a liter of petrol if it was. If it was measured in calories? Because it must be like massive, presumably. I like this. That's an interesting question, isn't it? How many calories are. How many calories are there in petrol? You've probably heard me say before, there's a very thin line between questions that are genius and questions that are stupid. And I often come down on the wrong side of that line. Daniel, I'm not going to lie to you. I know, but I think this is genius. I think this is genius, but I'm leaving the door open to the possibility that it's stupid. Fair enough. How many calories in petrol? Right. Roger and out. Thank you, Dan. Origin of that, Roger? Steve's in Felix, though. Steve, what do you think? Yeah. Good morning, James. Okay, the difference between them is that Romeo is part of the phonetic Alphabet. You use it to spell words. Roger, over, out. Whatever you want to use is shorthand for just Roger means. I understand. I understand your last transition. So it's not the phonetic Alphabet. It's like radio language that Roger means understood in. Yes, because when I was on ships back in the old days, we could only contact our families through ham operators. So if my. You know, if I wanted to. If I was talking to my wife, they had to flip a switch. So I would say over and they would flip the switch to her. Yes. When I was finished, I would say out, which meant transmission was completed. But if I was talking to another ham operator or to another ship and they gave a command, all I would say would be Roger. Yeah. Because that just means understood. But Romeo is part of the phonetic Alphabet, which you use. It's a brilliant answer. And, I mean, your qualifications are that you would. You operated radios on ships. I didn't operate them, but we had to use them. I meant you used them. So that's why when in films, if they say Roger over and out, it's nonsense. That is incorrect, because what you're saying is, I understood over to you and I'm ending my transmission. So why would you go over to them if you end your transmission, Steve. You're in the money, my friend. But Paul and Canterbury may be about to embellish further on your answer. There's no suggestion that your answer is wrong. But is it embellishable? Paul, what have you got in Canterbury? Hi there. Yeah, it actually does stand for something, which is reference. Orders given, everything received. So you buy that, Steve? I buy it. It just means. Understood, I understand your command. Yeah, but that's, that's your acronym, kind of unpicked. Are you sure about that, Paul? Paul, are you sure about that? Qualifications? Serving military. I'm hundred percent sure. You're still in the service, are you? I'm still in it. No, I'm retired. Yeah, I'm gonna. Can you share it? Chat. And also I like this. This is transatlantic. This is. This is how we won this. This is how we won the war. Guys. I am more than willing to share anything with the british military. Oh, get in. Same here. Well done, Paul. Well done, Steve. There you go. You see, I feel I should stand up and start singing. It's 23 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour on LBC question still in need of answers. That was lovely. And we might have done that before, but so what? That was a beautiful answer and we just. We were building bridges across continents, across the Atlantic. We wouldn't have won the second world war without that kind of cooperation. Petrol and calories. How many calories are there in petrol? Why don't bats. It's not why don't they fall off? It's why doesn't all the blood rush to their head when they're asleep? Relationship between sneezing and bright lights. And why is a piggy bank called a piggy bank? Simon's ill in Ilminster. Hello. Hi, Simon. Question or answer? I have got a question. Yes. So in a few films now I've seen it where there's one of the actors, one of the sort of participants of the film, one of the characters is having a heart attack and so there's someone else in the room. They suddenly like to stop this from happening or to help them, they get an electrical appliance, like a lamp or something. Strip out the lamp, get two of the bleeds, the live and the earth, I'm assuming. And then they shove that on their chest and they give them like a sort of a shock shove like that. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm assuming Azad defibrillator would do it, but would that work in real life? A bit worried about a bit worried about this one because, you know, we do have some, but you wouldn't know it to listen. But we do. We do try and observe some rules of responsibility on this program. I worry the answer no, exactly, but the answer might involve an explanation and then you can't be responsible for everybody at home who thinks, I'm going to try that now I'm going to try it on the cap. Absolutely. Do not try it on anybody. Why do you want to know? Why do you want to know, Simon? I don't know. It's always handy, isn't it? This is as good as. This isn't as close to Ray Mears as you get in Ilminster, is it? Two little ones? I mean, what sugar. Oh God. Stop. Stop talking. Elderly people. Is it higher voltage for the elderly or what is it? Yeah, it would be easier just to get a defibrillator if you're that worried about this sort of thing. They're a bit pricey. They are a bit pricey. So can you make your own? Well, yeah, in a panic. You don't want to do it in a panic. You need to know. You need to have the tools in place before the panic set. That's why I'm asking you. Fair enough. Grab that lamp. Grab that lamp. Clear. Okay, we'll have to. I'll have to. I might have to consult the producer during the news to find out how we're going to deal with that if indeed we get any answers but the questions on the board Simon, great stuff. Andrew's in reading. Andrew, what have you got? Answer. Carry on, mate. Sneezing. Yes. And bright lights. It's genetic in the same way that curling your tongue is a genetic ability. Bright lights and sneezing. Some people can and some people can't. Do we know why? Those who can. What is, what does the JZ. I mean, why does it work in those people who have the genetic. I'm not a geneticist. The information comes from a father who's a, who's a biologist and he explored into it because he suffered from sneezing or appearing to sneeze when he didn't feel like he wanted to sneeze just by driving into the sun. I actually have the same problem as does my sister and when we spoke to him about it. It's a genetic condition. Bright lights can trigger sneezing and if you want to sneeze and you get the feeling of wanting to have a sneeze, I've always been able to sneeze by looking at bright lights and it is. According to my father, who is a biologist, it's a genetic condition that some people can and some people can't. So there isn't. So the genes is the answer to the why. It's not necessarily the answer he was looking for, which would have been some kind of mechanical explanation of what was actually happening. But the answer is you've got a genetic predisposition to this condition. And I don't think I do. I don't think I do because it never seems to work for me, which is probably why I get confused. Yeah. Which is why I get confused about whether or not it's supposed to make you sneeze or make you lose the urge to sneeze, because obviously, if you've got the genetic predisposition, you'll know immediately what it does because it happens to you every time you go to see a bright light. Yeah. And in the same way that curling your tongue is genetic, some people can curl the tongue, some people can't, and that's genetically based as well. But that's. You have the genetic. You have the genes to be able to curl your tongue. So you can never learn. You can never learn to curl your tongue. You can't learn to curl your tongue. My mum can't curl her tongue. Everyone else in the family can, and therefore we've got the genes from my father to be able to. Can you do this? Can you go, yeah. Beautiful. Some people can't do that. Well, that must be genetic as well. A lot of the stuff like this is genetic. Maybe I got that last one wrong. You've already got a round of applause. There was something because I was doing it with my girls. I can't remember what it was. There's something one one can do and one can't do and I can do it and my wife can't do it. I thought it was going like. But it might be curling her tongue. Go down and ask her if she can curl her tongue. My mum can't. I've been married for 15 years. Those days are behind us. 28 minutes after twelve is the time. Round of applause for Andrew Richards in Uxbridge. Richard, question or answer? It's a question, James. Yes. So my question is, what is the difference between illegal as opposed to unlawful? I don't know that there is one. Is there? What makes you think there is a difference? Well, because sometimes on the news I'll see, like, that's an unlawful killing, and then say they're going on about the war, they talk about illegal wars and if they're both the same thing. Why don't they use the context of the word unlawful all the time, instead of illegal? Yeah, I mean, I understand why you're asking the question, but I also sense you're going to be a little bit disappointed if the answer is that they mean exactly the same thing. It's just style. It's a decision taken by whoever's written the bulletin. An illegal war, an unlawful war, an unlawful act. But that's just habit. It's an illegal war. An illegal war. I think. I mean, literally from the latin, they mean exactly the same thing. I think they do. I think they do. Okay, so can I leave it on the board? Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. But I don't know that you're gonna get a very satisfactory answer. That's all I'm worried about. Just looking out for the customers, Richard. It's one of the rules of mystery. Thank you, mate. We'll see how you get on. It's coming up to 12:30 there you go. So we still need answers to the bats question, the petrol question, the defibrillator question, and that last one there, the illegal unlawful question. And the piggy bank is still there as well. If you can answer any of those, you know what to do. If you've got a question that you want to ask, then we will be back imminently. The time now is 12:30 and Eleanor Noakes is here with the headlines, 33 minutes after twelve. So many callers have had such nice things to say recently. I wonder if you'd just allow me a moment to say how much I love you back, because I've been picked up on two mistakes I've made in the course of the program today, and I think they give an insight into why the listeners to this program must be among the most engaging in the history of phone in radio. The first was I said Voltaire instead of Pascal on the kind of old philosopher who made that wager. Why'd you go to church? Just in case. Why'd you pray? Just in case. I said it was Voltaire. You piled in. I've got 30 or 40 people telling me, no, it's Pascal, James. And the other thing you've corrected me on was me suggesting that Napoleon in Bill and Ted's excellent adventure, goes, piggy wiggy, piggy wiggy, piggy wiggy, when eating a huge bowl of ice cream. Whereas, as any fool know, ziggy piggy, ziggy, piggy, ziggy piggy. And that is why I love my job. Those two right there. Right there. Between those two things. Oh, yes. I think you may have picked up on the wrong 19th century continental philosopher there. Right through to. No, you've got your silly song wrong. Out of Bill and Ted. We try and sort of scale both of those peaks every day together on LBC. Most days we succeed. Always. When it's mystery hour, Dale is in Kidderminster. Whereabouts in Kidderminster, Dale? I am by the Wolverine Road. Have we had this conversation before? No. How old are you? I. 48 next month. You didn't used to live on Hercott Road, did you? No, I'm originally from Litchfield. Oh, are you? That would have been a bit of a shot. I had a mate called Dale on Hercott Road. Seriously, you must have been about four years older than me, back in the 1970s. But anyway, it wasn't you. What did you ring in for, Dale? I rang in to give you an answer about bats. Good man. Bring it on. Basically, they've got one way valves in their hearts. Sorry? In their arteries, which stop the blood rushing back to their heads. Ah, we shot. Of course they have. And we haven't? No. So what? Why doesn't it? Yeah. I'm going to ask you a stupid question now. Why doesn't the blood stay? When they go the right way up, the blood will come back through the valve. On a scale of one to ten, how stupid did I just sound, though? Two and a half. Pretty. Pretty blumisht. So it's a valve that stops the blood from going into the head and staying there? Yeah. Qualifications? I run a company called quitterish allsorts who do animal education presentations in schools and animal safety therapy in hospitals. And I'm a bit of a back geek. Well, I'm not surprised. Critter ish, all sorts. That's a lovely outfit. If we stayed here long enough, we'd find some mutual connections. You realize that, don't you? But I'm not sure. I'm not sure that there's 600 odd thousand, but. Yeah. Well, I'm not sure that the other people listening would be as interested in it as I. Well, I'm not even sure you'd be that interested in it. I'd just be trying to find out, you know, whether or not you've ever met my mum and that kind of thing. Yeah, you probably have. Right, we'll leave it there. Dale, you got a round of applause when kiddieminster is on. All right. You can beat me up for it if you want. I can't help it. Darren's in Orpington. Question or answer, Darren. It's an answer, James. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. So what have you got? Improvised defibrillator. Improvised? It doesn't. No, no. A couple of years back, my wife used to keep rabbits. Yes. And it was a summer's evening and the rabbits were milling around the patio and a fox come down. Yeah. And scared one of them quite badly under his hutch. So my wife's got it out. We chased the rabbit off. My wife's got the rabbit out. And through shock, it's died in her arm. Oh, no. Yeah, a bit sad. And she was quite upset. So thinking on my toes, I started breathing down its snout. Yeah. And pumping its chest. Rubbing, pumping its chest. Nothing. Thinking on my toes again. I've grabbed hold of the rabbit and we've got up to the top of the garden where our cars are popped open the bonnet. On one of our cars, I've got the ignition leaf from the coil, which is a very high voltage. Took it off the main coil, slid it slightly under its armpit. And this is no lie. Go on. Sliding slightly under its armpit. Got her to wang over the engine. Just crank it over. It wouldn't start. Because the car's not connected. Yeah. I was all the time blowing down its note and rubbing its chest. The thing's jumping around and moving out because it's a high voltage, about 50,000 volts, but no amps. It's the amps that kills it. The volts that, you know, had a shock. Yeah. And it's moving and jumping, but nothing. It never come back to life. And she was still upset. Yeah, but that doesn't mean it wouldn't have worked on a different rabbit or creature. Well, it was a shit. It was not been or we still. No, I know, mate, but you mean defibrillators don't always work? I don't want to go into too much detail because it'll be a traumatic memory for a lot of people, but they don't always work. So just because you mean improvise the thing, is it improvised? Yeah, but the rabbit was jumping up and down all over the place, so something was worth the electricity. The electric shock was reaching the heart. Yeah. You know, when you've been bit by a call lead, it lets you know. I. I don't know. I mean, I'm tempted to give you a round of applause for comedy value, but I don't think this is conclusive proof, because you've only done it on one rabbit, mate. You'd need to. I mean, even if you've done it on a hundred rabbits. I wouldn't be able to derive an ought from an ears. Just, you know, just because it didn't work a hundred times doesn't mean it wouldn't work the hundred and first time. You've only done it the first time. You need to electrocute more rabbits before I can give you any applause. There's a joke here about Duracell, isn't there? But I haven't got it yet and nor have you, so we'll let it lie. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Darren, because I think in the spirit of mystery hour and in the spirit of romance, actually, just in the week after Valentine's Day, that's a beautiful thing that you tried to do for your wife and her rabbit, but it is only. It's a charity round of applause. It's not a definitive round of applause. Thank you very much. Do not try that at home, ever, in any way, shape or form, ever. Paul's in harrow. Poor question or answer. It was the answer the defib, because I was laughing so much, actually, what the question was, when you see it in films, they'd sort of do a homemade one, whether it's because of the spark plugs, like. Like your man, or whether it's like they grab a lamp. Does it work? Um, well, the way. The way. The way a defib works is basically just very high voltage, very low current, as that chap was saying. Yeah, calf. An example of that would be your gas cooker, whereby it's about 25,000 volts for a spark to jump an inch. And if you notice, some gas cookers have a little battery at the very bottom. Yes. That just shows you how it works. Now, if you're playing with the mains, you've been a bit silly and I wouldn't advise anybody to do it. Secondly, as I said, and obviously it's been proven that it's obviously just the right brake voltage to start a heart. It's about 50,000 volts. So it could have worked on the rabbit? It could have worked. No, but only because it's very high voltage, very low current. If you put the mains to the rabbit, it would probably fry. So you. Right, yes. So you're not going to have a device to take the current from the mains to the patient safely. It's just. There's nothing you could use to do that. Because there's too much voltage. No. Yes, there's too much current. The voltage is fine. It's the current. I mean, so if I used a lamp. If I, if I used a lamp that the element from a lamp and tried to do, got two lamps like that, what would happen that way? It would be that get an electric shock and probably, possibly have heart attack because of the amount of voltage. Too much voltage. Too much. Too much current. Too much current. Too much current. But the, but the car battery might have done the job then. Yes, so you might be. But so you shouldn't do it. And when we've seen that, when we've seen them do it with lamps and stuff on the, on the films, that's all rubbish. That would kill you. Yes, but it rubbish to kill you. Car battery. There's a very good chance, yes, as I said, the car batteries. Enough now. No, seriously, I'm worried I'm gonna get complaints. What are your qualifications? I've done a sitting guild and electronic servicing in the early, late nineties, early eighties. Sorry, late eighties and. Yeah, that's it really. Have you ever. Many circuits? Have you ever. You've never made a defibrillator yourself? No. As I said, there's a lot, there's a lot of. There's a lot of games and stuff that will work on the same sort of adaption where it gives you a little electric shock just to heat to. Of course it is. To jump from a to b. Yes, you say, now I get it. I don't. Mate, I'm not going to lie to you. I kind of didn't understand what you were talking about with a gas cooker but I was worried about looking stupid so I did whatever the radio equivalent of nodding along is. Yeah. So the bottom line is, get it very. It's a very high voltage, very low current. And obviously it's been tested and tested and tested to make sure it does work on patients. And just to clarify, no rabbits were harmed in the making of this radio program. Round of applause for Paul, please. Great work, Paul. Great work mate. Look at that. Seriously. And I know we're laughing, but do not even think of going there ever. Bryn's in Croydon. Bryn, question or answer? Answer. Jones. Carry on, Bryn. So I'm still trying to get over that guy electrocuting his rabbit with his car. Just unbelievable, wasn't it? That's romance, that is. We can all aspire to that kind of devotion to our partners. Bryn, the question about the calories in petrol. Yes. So although I don't know exactly how many are in petrol, I can tell you how to work it out. So one calorie is the amount of energy required to heat 1 water by one degree celsius. I don't want to sound ungrateful, Bryn, but I knew that. So if you want to find out, burn some petrol, heat some water and it will tell you. Right. Do you want the good news or the bad news? You're gonna give me some bad news, aren't you? Yeah, I am. No, Professor Howe's on the other line. Oh, well, I've just been trumped. Well, I don't know yet. He's not infallible. He just hasn't put a foot wrong yet. There's a pretty good chance. Stay there, Bryn. Professor Howell is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. He joins me on the line. Now, it's the petrol question, isn't it? Halloween? It is. James, what have we got? I think on this occasion, Professor Cox should have confined his activities to staring at the wonders of the universe and kept his hands up our test tubes. This is chemistry, it's not. Keep his hands off our test tubes. All right, so your caller's talking about calorimeteries is the how. I want to talk about the why. And there's nothing particularly special about petrol. It's just got carbon carbon bonds and carbon hydrogen bonds which are broken, but it's the formation of the oxygen hydrogen bonds and the carbon oxygen bonds to the water and carbon dioxide, that's the exhaust that gives all the energy. So fats, proteins, wood, sugar, they've all got more or less the same amount. And you can look up the petrol caloric value, which I didn't do because they're not allowed. All of these have energy. And the only reason we haven't got enzymes which would break down petrol is because when we were evolving, there wasn't any. We didn't exist. So we never developed the enzymes to. So Bryn was right, then. You would work it out in all the usual ways. Well, I'd actually look it up rather than work it out, but. Yeah. Yeah, well, I would as well. But you're not allowed to. But we can't. I just. You know, because you're the academic. Brin's the layman here. I'm trying to give him a little bit of kudos. I mean, that formula would work, but in the strictest sense, neither of you have given us the answer that we're looking for. Because we need someone to tell us how many calories there are in petrol, not why or how we can work it out for ourselves. She's all right. Groaning and making strange noises Professor Howell. I say how many calories are there in pets? What do you say? I don't know. I say I can look it up. I don't need to know. You don't want you to look it up. This is mystery hour. You're not allowed to look. Bryn, I'm going to give you the round of applause, mate. Why don't you know it off by heart? Hal, you're supposed to be a professor. There's so many things that if someone phones in with the right answer, I'll give you the money myself. He's nicking. The catchphrase is now. No, he's not, James. He's just repeating the catchphrase that you nicked off Les Dennis. Good point. It's 1240, 512 49 is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Just ten minutes left for you to get involved. Before that, let me tell you that here at LBC, we are currently assembling a team of cyclists to take part in the prudential ride London to Surrey 100, and you could be a part of it. Take on the 100 miles cycle ride with a route that includes Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, Surrey Countryside and the male. It's all to raise funds for our charity globals make some noise, which helps disadvantaged young children and young people across the UK. There's a host of benefits to being part of the LBC team, including an exclusive cycling jersey and a chance to win a two night stay at the Four Seasons Hotel in Hampshire. Places are limited, though, so visit LBC dot co Dot UK today for full details and your chance of a place. We go next to doctor Christopher, who is in Barnett. I presume that by insisting on the presence of your title, you are here to answer a scientist question. Yes, it's actually about the calories in energy fusion for petrol. How many calories are there in petrol? There's 32.4 calories per liter on the millijoules of energy density, but in specific energy millijoules to kilowatts is 44.4 milligrams. I'm glad you made that distinction because a lot of people would not have been that thorough. Yeah. No, there's actually four or five different ways of working it out, but in the energy of nuclear power plant investigations, it works out at 32.4 scale. But on the MJ two kilowatt scale, it's 44.4. Yeah, to be honest, that's what I thought, because there's not many people who'd be able to give it. But I actually work with energy fusion on quite a regular basis, so I was able to work out and give you the specific answers for it. If you build it, they will come. This is it. What are your qualifications specifically? I've actually got a master's degree in energy fusion and biometric energy fusion. I wish how was still here. We could slap him. Professor Halbacho, your energy future monsters, have you ever put your learning to such epic good use as you have in the last two minutes, Christopher? No. This is a really magical moment for me on mystery. This is one of the best moments ever. Just say all that again, just because it kind of excites me. Basically, the whole energy fusion system works out on the kilowatts per mj scale is 44.4 for the specific energies, but the energy density to millijoules per liter is 32.4 calories. 32.4 calories. Now, I'm going to give you a round of applause. I'm going to thank you for a magical moment, but I am. Just to avoid any future humiliation, I am going to put it on the record. It's perfectly possible you've just been talking undiluted gibberish. I have no way of knowing. You just. You just have an air of plausibility that I find irresistible. Well, thank you for that, but, yeah, you can give me a round of applause if you'd like. You're not yanking my chain, are you? I'm not, no. Doctor Christopher, this is for you. A moment of absolute magic. Seriously? 1252. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. Professor Howe? Don't know. It's very flammable. V is in Harpenden. V. Question or answer? Question, please. Come on. Voice quite straightforward. After the miller. Killer jewels. Millage. I wasn't confused, I was just trying to make thick people listening feel better. V. I knew exactly what he was talking about with his thing of me, Jules. Of course you did. Yeah. So, in a really simple question, astronauts take off into space from various locations on Earth. So what time do they use? Astronauts use when they're in the IsS. Oh, I know this. And it's not GMT. No, it's. It's, um. It's. It's. It's same as when they're at sea or in the sky. What? What do they use at sea? Sea time. No, see? Time, mate. See? Time. Sea time. Mary. Maritime. Maritime. Maritime. There you go. Maritime. Time. Maritime. How many kilojoules do you want? How many kilojoules do you want with that? 32.4. What time do astronauts use in space? I'm pretty sure it's to do with c. But I can't remember what the. I can't remember what the official word is, so I'm not giving myself a round of applause. Lovely question, vy. Why do you want to know? You going? You going anytime soon to space? I was planning to, yeah, but waiting on better weather, I think. Very wise. Very wise. 1254. What time do they use in space? Difference between illegal and unlawful. To give you an indication of the kind of people that listen to this program, Victoria has fielded four calls from people all saying, well, unlawful means against the law and illegal is a poorly bird. Save it. Seriously. You're not going to get on any more than you're getting on with jokes about your wife's rabbit following on from the defibrillator question that a lot of people have piled in on how he's so childish. Tony's in church. To Tony. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Go on, Tony. If you've got a laser torch pen and you point it at the television, can you do any damage to the television? Why do you want to know? My young nephew has got one and I've took it off of him. Then. I didn't want him to do that. Right. I just wondered if that. He's not been pointing it at planes, has he? Absolutely not, no. Glad to hear it. I don't see how it could damage the television. No, no. Anyone might know. Well, it's quite late in the day. I'll do my best to find out for you. Thanks, James. Yeah, well, what are you going to do if the answer comes in? You're going to give it back to him? No, this thought, anyway, because it shouldn't have it. I mean, people. It's just too dangerous. Yeah, but check with his dad, check with his mum first. You don't want to be the evil uncle. Every time he comes around Uncle Tony's, he gets his toys smashed up. You don't want to be that guy, Tony. No, I'm the best uncle in the world. That's what I mean. I want to keep it that way, but destroy it humanely. 1255 is the time Michaela is in welling. Michaela, question or answer? Answer. Come on, then. So it's about the piggy bank. It's not as intellectual as the last two, but. Piggy. Piggy, yes, basically it's from the 15th century. It's the material they used to use to make piggy banks with or pitch. It's called PGY or PGY. So let's quit piggy piggy bank because that's to save their money. And then it was clay pig. Clay pig. Clay pig clay. And then it says nothing to do with pig whatsoever. So they would make it into a ball and it would be a money box you put money in. It was your piggy pig bank. Piggy bank. And then over the years, clever Potter's made it look like a pig. That's it exactly. Qualifications, Michaela? I am area manager for a makeup company, so nothing to do with Pottery, but I learned about it school and made a piggy bank at school. Had a round of applause for Michaela. That's a lovely answer. We like that a lot. The laser. Can you damage a tv? I shouldn't have said that. That you probably can't. I don't know anything about anything. Why am I even trying to answer a question about lasers and televisions? If you shine a laser at a television screen, do you damage the television screen? Petrol calories. We've done that. Difference between illegal and unlawful. What time do they follow in space? And that will be it, actually, so we could clear the board if we're quick. Massum is in Croydon. Massum. Question or answer? It's an answer, Jane. Come on. Massum. But the difference about being unlawful and illegal. Illegal things that are illegal are defined by acts of parliament and things are unlawful are defined by common law, which involves loss or damage. So an example of that would be, you know, you have the migrants that are coming to Europe, they might be. They might go to certain countries illegally, but it's lawful. And acts can. Acts of parliament can change over time. Common law can't. What are you quite. I like this, but I'm not. I'm not. I'm not entirely. What are your qualifications? I've seen a lot of documentaries about this. That's it. That's all that settled then. Seen a lot of documentaries. Crikey, mate, did you hear the man with all the phds in energy fusion? What's it, Jules, you can't come on here and say, I've seen a lot of documentaries after Doctor Chris has set the bar so high. Well, that's my qualification. James, take it off. Oh, all right. All right, champ. There's no need to get tasty. No, no, no. We only got three minutes on the board and I know you wanted to get through the other question. 1 minute on the board. Am I going to give him that illegal and unlawful? I am, yeah. Give him that quick and I can play it saving for the job. So. Good morning. It's an answer, mate. Right then. It's about the astronauts and the time. Yeah, it's GMT. Qualifications on the ISS. GMT on the ISS? Sounds like a song. What are your qualifications? How do you know this? I heard it on the radio. I heard it on the radio. John's in Horsham. I might need better qualifications than that. John, what have you got? Hello there. It's actually called. It's actually known as Zulu, which is. He's dead. Right. Exactly the same as GMT. 1 hour behind BST, which is british summertime. It's used by aviation, naval and it's used by space exploration. My experience is 15 years in the aviation industry. Do you mind sharing with Stu? Is that all right, boys? Let's have a shared clap. Let's have a shared clap, gentlemen. Listen to that enthusiasm. It's practically euphoric. The only thing we haven't done is the laser on the telly. We've got 10 seconds left. Has anyone rung in about the laser? Caroline, have we got the laser? I'm just worried about Tony's nephew. He's not getting. He's already getting his toy destroyed. Have we got anything? We got nothing on the laser. We've got nothing on the laser. Sit for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you.