What is the most photographed object in the world?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is about to commence. Before it does, a quick tweet from Mary James. She writes, your show is like a warm, comforting hug every morning. So reassuring in these difficult times. Thank you. And I would just take this opportunity to say that even if you have mistakenly considered me to be your enemy over the last four years, the hugs are still here for you. Okay. I mean it. I know it sounds a bit glib, but they really are. Anyway, let's crack on with mystery, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you know how it works, book your berth on my switchboard now in the usual way. Zero 345-606-0973 if you don't know how it works, well, I'll probably take about 46 seconds of your time to explain. But really, just experiencing it is the best lesson. As with so much in life, so what happens is. Right, pay attention. People ring in with a question and then someone else rings in with an answer, and that is mystery hour. It's a little bit more complicated than that. Don't ring in with questions that no one else is going to be interested in the answer to. I know that's a little bit hard to police. That's supposed to be our job, but, you know, it's getting very late in the year. We've put in quite a shift in 2020. We're all getting a bit tired. Especially Keith struggles to keep awake. He's a matchstick's in the eyes stage of the year. And that's without his usual djing, which has been kiboshed, of course, by all the coronavirus restrictions. So try not to be boring. Pot, kettle, James. And you don't have to laugh quite as enthusiastically as that at my faux self deprecation. And we try to avoid repetition, but that, of course, is very difficult to do. The repetition side of things is very difficult to do. If you hear me say the number, it means I've got phone lines free. I don't have any free at the moment. And if you hear somebody else ask a question, you need to ring in with the answer. If you don't, then you'll be banned from listening to the program for a year. What was the other thing I was going to say? There's something else that's important. You're not allowed to look stuff up. Thank you, Keith. That is the only rule, really, is that it makes a complete mockery of the entire project. If you look stuff up now, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, well, what's the point of having it if you're not allowed to use it? I said, you can use it, just not on mystery hour. So that's almost why we came up with the idea. Two reasons why mystery hour exists. Number one, elections are on Thursdays, and on Thursdays you're not allowed to talk about elections that are happening on Thursdays. So we have to talk about anything except elections. The only occasion I have been yellow carded by those magnificent people at Ofcom, the broadcasting regulators, is when I accidentally talked about an election on a Thursday. I mean, to be honest with you, we were already doing mystery out by that point, so even that flimsy defence fell apart like a cheap suit. But that is one of the reasons why it exists, because we came up with an idea for one Thursday during an election, and it worked so well. Here we are, 306 years later, still wheeling it out every week. And I took so long to tell you what reason number one was. I've forgotten what reason number two was. Oh, yeah, my kids, you see, I watch my children doing their homework often, with a sense of wonder and incomprehension. Means, medians and modes. Last night, I'm still. I mean, all those years ago, still a bit befuddled, but I think we got it right. So I watched them doing their homework and I realized they don't need to learn stuff. Like what I did when I was a lady. You know, how we had to memorize stuff, whatever it may have been. A mo, a mass amount, a martyrs, a Marty Samant. Closed like confessionals. They thread loud noons of cities, giving back none of the glances they absorb. They come to rest at any kerbal streets in time are visited. Bit of Larkin for you there, Keith. Or you had to memorize, I don't know, Battle of Hastings, 1066, Battle of Bosworth. Mental blockage ends in five. Always get a bit confused. 1645 or 1485. Just madness, but you see what I mean? We had to memorize stuff. Oh, that this too, too solid flesh would melt thoroughly and resolve itself into a due, or that the everlasting had never turned, or something like that. Well, my kids don't have to learn stuff because it is literally at their fingertips. If we were that kind of parent, they would have on their watch more information than most of us can hold in our heads. And when we were at school. You needed it in your heads. Which is why the Encyclopedia Britannica is now contained in a pinhead. So this is a little bit of a nostalgic celebration of just knowing stuff because when we came up with the idea, we were a little bit worried that it might be going out of fashion. But turns out knowledge has got a slightly stronger staying power than perhaps we allowed. Yes, you're right. I am in an exceptionally good mood. And, no, I have no idea why. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Alex is in Heathfield. Alex, question or answer? Hi, James. How you doing? Good to be on. Likewise, likewise, likewise. What have you got for me? What is the most photographed thing or object in the world? Oh, blimey, that's strong. That's a bit Guinness book of Records. Well, I've got a bit of beef with the Guinness Book of Records at the moment. They kept my new book off the top spot in the Times chart in the week of release. I know it sounds a little bit ungrateful to complain about being at number two, but the Guinness Book of Records puts one out every year. I only do it every two or three years. I did have another question, but I wasn't allowed to ask it because it was too hard. Quite right, too. What is the most photographed object in the world? And it would be a landmark, wouldn't it? I've got a few guesses, but it'd be interesting to know if there's an actual. You're going to Eiffel Tower, Taj Mahal, statue of liberty. Yeah, yeah. Buckingham palace. Oh, hang on, sorry. The 5 billion pound, 240 bedroom palace in the swanky borough of Westminster. Because I don't know if you were listening yesterday, Alex, we've decided to start describing all the queen's houses in the same way that the Daily Mail describes Meghan Markle's. Um. Go on, give me something else for the list. Um. My. What? My one before was, um. Who else is on the list for potential most photographed object in the world? Oh, right. No, we called them Eiffel Tower and Taj Mahal. Oh, we came up with. Yeah. Someone will know that. No, fair, fair enough. I like it a lot. Could be something completely random that we'd never have thought about. And it may have something. It may be somewhere in China. It may have more to do with the size of the population in a given area than the apparent popularity of said landmark in the minds of our rather blinkered western views. I don't know. Stuart's in Wellwick. Where's that? Hello? It's up near hull. Is it? Yes, it's famous for two of the gunpowder plotters came from this village. Is it? Well, who? Which ones? The Wright brothers. Was it really? Because a lot of them came from Warwickshire, near where I grew up. They did. And from York as well. But it was the. There was two of them from here, one from York and whatever else. Well, you live and learn. Question or answer? Stuart, here's a question for you. I've been trying to get asked for two years now, which is why when kettles are boiling, just before they boil, they go deathly silent. So they're boiling away, then they go very, very quiet and then they switch themselves off. Why do they go quiet? It's not just kettles, is it? Well, yeah, that's the one I noticed. It's probably true with saucepans and whatever else, but I noticed with kettles there's that silent moment and then a little lull. The lull before the storm, if you like. That's the one I want, the physics. That's physics, isn't it? Probably, yeah. Guess that. All right, you're on the list. I like it a lot. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Gentle mind. There you go. Eleven minutes after twelve. Number one and number two. We have two questions on the board. Most photographed landmark on the planet. You've got to know it. And it may well be that you know it because you've read it in the Guinness Book of Records, but you're not allowed to look it up in the Guinness Book of Records for reasons that I rather tediously explained just a few short moments ago. Mike's in Teddington. Mike, question or answer? Question. Carry on. In athletics, why are track events anti clockwise? It's because we're all right handed, isn't it? I have no idea. This is. I mean, to be honest, this is one of the. This is a hardy perennial. This might be one of the questions that's come up most, but I'm so old and doddery now, Mike. My short term memory is shot to pieces. I don't know about yours. I've been listening for a few years now and I've not heard it come up, but then I have to listen. Every Thursday I've heard, well, the theories that are bubbling away in the back of my brain like. Like a boiled kettle, are something to do with where our heart is on our body, something to do with right handedness and right, obviously, right leggedness and something to do with ancient Greece. So why would being right handed mean? We run. We like it's anti clockwise. I don't follow that argument. Because your outer leg is doing more work than your inner leg. Is that right? Almost certainly not. You've lost me. Me too. That was quite a moment, Mike. Thank you. Twelve after twelve is the time. Why do track events go? Me. Rob's in Sunbury. Rob, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. What animal grows the most relative to its birth weight? Hey, so birth weight. I thought you said birth rate. So from. No. Yeah. So the biggest. So if it's a to z, the smallest a in relation to the biggest z. This is all on a big Guinness book of records this week. I don't understand why. It's like they're trolling me with the. With the. With the books chart. Why do you ask? I saw a picture of a sunfish. Yes. And fully grown. They're about a ton and about 2 meters long. But their babies are about the size of your fingernail, possibly even smaller. Is that right? Yes. So it's probably the sunfish. So says the Internet. But we want someone to go definitive. Exactly. And it's quite. Can we phrase it more simplistically? What? No, we can't. Can we? What animal grows the most relative to its birth weight? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I like that a lot. Or the greatest differential between birth weight and final and fully grown size. Yeah, I was probably. I mean. And you need. It needs to be because I would gone for. I would have gone for a californian redwood. But you want something that can breathe. That's too smart. That's quite clever. That was quite a clever intervention. That was. It was just in case anyone didn't notice, but because what. Do you know what I was thinking, Rob? I was thinking in my mind, right, from little acorns you see grow mighty oaks. I was thinking of a way of explaining your question, but actually then I realized that actually an acorn is a living thing, or at least a mighty oak is. But that's not what you're looking for. You're looking for something that is sort of mammalian or animal. Yeah. All right, you're on. I'll try and find out. It can't be a whale because they start pretty big. Baby whales are quite big. Yes. Aha. Have a great day. It's 1215. This is LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 18 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to mystery album. Meet James O'Brien and the mysteries that currently need solving include these. What's the most photographed landmark on the planet? So you can't have the moon. Oh, that's an executive decision. Even if it was the moon, the moon doesn't count. It's got to be a landmark on the planet. Why do kettles go quiet just before they go boom with a boiling sensation? They don't go boom, it's a vigorous speech. Why do we run anti clockwise around an athletics track? And what was the last one just before the break? What's the biggest differential between birth weight and final size? That is, you know, pound for pound, if it was a multiple, so it ends up a creature ends up 30 times bigger than its birth weight. What's the biggest number? That's the best way of explaining it, I think. So. You can't have trees, so no moons, no trees. Aha. Tom's in Ongar. Tom, question or answer? Question? Please carry on. How do you steer in space? Oh, who's that in the background? Oh, that's my youngest. He's having a bit of a stroppy day at the moment. Is he feeling a bit poorly? Is it his teeth or is he just a bit under the weather? It's a bit of both. I think he's probably got a question, too, but I'm not sure we'll be able to answer that one just yet. Well, you underestimate me. I mean, if I've understood your question correctly, the answer rockets. Well, what I'm thinking is, if you. If you compare it to, say, like a canoe or a kayak, if you were to push yourself one way, you would row on one side or you would stick your oar in. But if there's nothing to push against, because his place is a vacuum, what would it push against? So how would you steer? You could push off a planet and go in one straight line, but how do you kind of turn left? But if I. If I active, I've got two rockets, one for left and one for right, and I activate the right rocket, would that not propel me? But wouldn't rockets push against. Wouldn't they still push against something? Well, I completely understand your question, but I'm thinking that because they do steer spaceships, I must be right. But I can't. I mean, I just think I must be. But then I spend most of my life feeling like that, so I'll ask. It's on the board, but I just want to be 100% sure I understand your question, because we know that you can steer, or maybe you can't. Maybe they just stay on a straight trajectory and everything's really carefully calculated. Yeah, that's what I wasn't sure about in the way. How would you dodge it if it's. If there's no atmosphere? But you create your own atmosphere in a rocket, don't you? Maybe. I bet the answer anyway. Look, if the answers rockets, I'm gonna have half a round of applause, but I'm not gonna claim it myself at this point in proceedings. All right, now, look at. Get back to the little one. Lovely noise. Jonathan's in Chester. Jonathan, question or answer? I have an answer, James, to the kettle boiling question. Carry on. So, the noise that you hear as the kettle boils is the sound of bubbles that are created on the element collapsing in the water, which is not at boiling point in the body of water in the kettle. Right. And when that bubble collapses, it gives up its heat, it heats up the water in the body of the kettle. When the kettle is reaching boiling point, those bubbles no longer collapse because the water's now at boiling point. So the bubbles rise to the surface and exit as steam instead. So then it clicks, then it clicks off and then it starts bubbling again, because in that instant, it starts cooling slightly. Or am I going, no, because when it clicks off, you're no longer providing any heat to the element. So it. So it starts to cool down, but at that point. But why does it bubble up again after the moment of calmness? I don't think it does. I think what you probably. No, it doesn't. No, it doesn't. No, it doesn't. It doesn't. I've gone. I've gone. I've gone bonkers. I've misremembered. Yeah. What you might see is some visible steam condensing from the spout as the kettle switches off. So that's really. So the reason it goes quiet is because the water is not at boiling point previously, and water not at boiling point will pop the bubbles of boiling point. Water or steam? Do you want to know why I got distracted? Go ahead. I don't know if you heard my spiel earlier about how ridiculous it is that all the people who've been proved categorically and completely wrong about Brexit are still invited back into steam studios in every other corner of the british media. Did you hear that? I did indeed. And then I glanced to my right and guess who's on. Guess who's on sky at the moment? Oh, I don't know. Mark Francois. Yeah, you'd be lucky. No, the biggest. Who's the biggest charlatan of them all? There's a lot to pick from. Yeah. But come on, who's the biggest charlotte? If it was going well, who would be running up and down the country now doing laps of honour instead of wanging on about cycle lanes? Well, Boris, I guess it's not a bad answer, actually. There we go. Give him a round of applause. That's the correct answer on mystery. I make the rules, Keith. Don't look at me like that. Well played, Jonathan. And another round of applause for the kettle answer as well. And for another farrago of nonsense, I am joined now by Nigel. Yeah, you'll be lucky. Once was enough for him. Steve's in Bristol. Steve, what would you like to say? Oh, hello again. Question or answer, Steve. Question or answer? It is. Sorry, it is an answer. Go on, then. It is an answer to the question about the most photographed item in the world. And if you're defining photographs as printed, that would be Nottingham Castle, of course. I'm not defining photographs as printed. Well, because. No, it has to be the most photographed. That's the number of people. Because only one person can photograph something. Well, that's simply not true. Well, lots of people can photograph things. You can only take a photograph once. Yeah, so what? The thing that the most, the highest number of people have taken a photograph of becomes the most photographed thing. Or you could, I suppose, have the same person taking millions and millions and millions of photographs. But that's not what the question sought to convey. And printing a photograph, I mean, I like your knowledge and I'm glad that we've got a cheeky giggling because I felt things were getting a bit fraught between us for a moment there. Steve, I love your answer and I love your knowledge and I will remember the Nottingham Castle thing, but it's not the most photographed item, even though it appeared on a cigarette packet for 50 years and therefore probably made its way into more pockets and homes than any other photograph in circulation. Absolutely correct. Yes. That was your point, I think. Yes. Where is not. I mean, don't say in Nottingham, actually, Notingham. It's. It's. Some would say it's in the north. Or if we're in Newcastle upon time, you'd think it's in the south. So it's not in Nottingham, not in Castle is. Yeah, it's on hill. All right, now I'm going. John, Castle Rock. Okay. It's just there's one castle that's nowhere near the town that bears the same name. I can never remember what it is. Is it Leeds Castle? Isn't it? Yeah. Leeds Castle. I'm going to give you a round of applause because I'm feeling a bit like Father Christmas today. But. But you've answered a question that nobody's asked. Can I be the first one? How you go? Jonathan's in new breed. Jonathan, question or answer? It's a potential answer. James. Let's have a look then. Let's have a look, Jonathan. So it's for the question in regards to weight at birth as opposed to largest size. Yes, I am fairly certain that it's actually a marlin. Really? Yes, because if you imagine the size of them when they, when they first hatch out, they're, you know, grams and can grow sort of 2000 pounds. So you're looking at sort of multiple of thousands rather than hundreds in comparison to other animals that finish very large but also start off very large like whales and elephants, etcetera. So. Okay. So I mean, I don't know that we can go definitive because the questioner cited a sunfish which is similarly also. Yes, very large. A couple of thousand pounds as well. There you go. I sense you're a fisherman, Jonathan. I'm very much a fisherman. I've spent most of my life traveling around the world taking clients to various different places. What's the question you get asked? The most favorite fish to catch or most difficult fish to catch? Not biggest fish you've caught quite often, but for being a fly fisherman, you see most people ask for the most difficult fish to catch. Normal conventional stuff. We use light fly fishing rods to make life even more difficult. Um, because you're in it for the challenge, not for your dinner. Exactly. Yeah. More and more now we put everything back and conservation is very much on the high agenda for us, you see. Of course it is. And so what is, what is your favorite and dead for us, you see, is recreational. I do understand that. I really do. And what is your favorite fish to catch? I'm a big, big fan of catching a fish known as a permit, which is probably one of the most challenging to catch on a fly. And people spend tens of thousands of pounds and years and years chasing them just to land one. Really a permit, permits. But you're going to need. Crikey, they can't be that hard to catch because every lorry driver in the country is going to need one soon to get into Kent. Two different types of permit. You've got the Atlantic permit and the Indo Pacific and they're both just as difficult as each other to catch. You're a genius or at least an expert. We like experts on this program. I'm going to give you a round of applause because I'm dishing them out like confetti this week. But we haven't gone. We haven't gone definitive, have we? Because we can't prove not definitive, but I'm fairly certain that he is definitely a fish species. If it's not a marlin. I think a fish is probably the answer. But, you know, a lot of people think fish is the answer to everything at the moment. Jonathan, don't get me started. And there's your second Brexit joke. They laughed when I said all that would be left was fish, and they're not laughing now. Lawrence is in Basingstoke. Lawrence, question or answer? Hi. I've got an answer for the rocket one. Great stuff. Go on. It wasn't really a rocket one. Rocket was my suggested answer. It was a spaceship one. Yeah. Okay. It kind of comes down to a common misconception of the way that rockets work. They don't really push against the air or anything like that. You've heard of, obviously, Isaac Newton, and I'm guessing most people have heard the phrase, every force has an equal and opposite reaction. I don't know if I've heard of every loser wins in the end by Nick Berry. What was the one you came out? Yeah. Every force has an equal and opposite reaction. It's not as catastrophic. Discovered by Isaac Newton. Sir Isaac Newton. Yes. Carry on. And essentially what's happening is it's not the rocket exhaust pushing against the air or something like that, because there is no air. It's actually the rocket exhaust pushing against the rocket, if that makes sense. So it creates its own. Yeah. If you were in space and you were in a spacesuit and you're standing outside the rocket and used your arms to push yourself away from the rocket, you would go flying off, away from the rocket. The rocket also flies off away from you a little bit, but you weigh a lot less than the rocket. Same thing with rocket fuel. It pushes away the rocket. You're good. Qualifications? Engineer. It's not exactly rocket science. I work in it now, but I did a degree in engineering, so I'm going to give you a round of applause. That's a really nice answer. Also, I did say that you'd have to share it, put it in a way. No, it's beautifully done. That's what we're all about here. I did say, I take half of the applause because I said rockets. But now that push has come to shove, you see what I did there? I'm going to let you keep it in its entirety for yourself, Lawrence. All right, so this is all for you. Awesome. Thank you. You're very welcome. Thank you very much. The time is 12:30. Tim Humphrey is here now with your headline mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1234. Mystery hour continues. Questions excuse mark that. Still need answers. What's the most photographed landmark? Why do we run in an anti clockwise direction around a running track? And what's the biggest differential between birth weight and final size? That is, you know, a baby moon calf. A moon calf is 30 times bigger than it was when it was a baby. When it's fully grown, do you see what I mean? So what's the biggest number in that sentence imaginable? Any others? I think that's it. We've answered the rest. Alan's in Liverpool. Alan, question or answer? There's a question. James, carry on. Alan, in journalism, this is something that you know a lot about. Yeah, all right. No one likes a smart arse or sarcasm. Carry on. What's the difference between. Because occasionally you'll see something on Twitter and then you'll follow it and it will be a piece in the Times or something. And it often has written by somebody and it says he is either editor, editor in chief or editor at large. And you want to know what the differences are? Yeah, if there is a difference, yeah. I mean, those three are very good examples. There's one caveat that I'd add, which is quite often in this profession, job titles or job title enhancements are used in replacement for the pay rise you'd really much rather have. So you go and see the boss and you say, any chance of an extra ten grand a year? And they say, how about we change your title to editor at large? Would that do? And you sort of go, well, not really, but, hey, actually, that would look quite cool on a business, all of that stuff. So the way it works is you talk about newspapers. Yeah. So the person in charge of that individual newspaper is the editor. If, for example, it's an empire or even simply a seven day operation, then you would have an editor in chief. So the person, usually, the way it worked in my day was the. You might have someone who was actually editing the Sunday paper, but they did have to clear it with the person who edited the daily paper. So the editor of the six day operation would be the editor in chief of the seven day operation, but the 7th day would have its own editor with the title editor. So an editor in chief is always an editor? Yes. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Right, okay. Editor at large really is just a fancy way of saying roving correspondent. So an editor at large is a very, I think Ian Dunt, one of the best journalists in the country at the moment, has just moved from being editor in chief of politics dot co dot UK to being editor at large, which means he no longer has to deal with rotors and personnel and commissioning and other people's copy and subbing, which is all part of the editing process. He just gets to write whatever, roughly whatever he wants to write. But it would still have to be cleared with the editor or the editor in chief. But your editor at large is just a fancy title for a normal correspondent. I could call Rachel Venables editor at large if she came to me for a pay rise. I may have an answer as well for the. This animal thing. Oh, well, go on, because that's quite. You're not really supposed to do this, but go on. You had the chap saying about the Marlin. Yes. Which obviously would have come initially from an egg and then a fry or whatever. Well, taking that because it's a fish, go for the biggest fish in the ocean, which is a whale shark. Yeah, but I bet a baby whale shark's big. Well, it'll be an egg at first. No, it won't, because would it be in a fish? Is it fish, not a mammal? A whale shark. No, it's a whale shark. Is a fish. Biggest fish. Oh, okay. Well, it's on the list. We're just going to have a long list of fish at the moment. I thought we were taking an hour off from Brexit. Have a round of applause, Alan. Yeah, but it'd be a british fish. Would it be a british fish? What the hell is a british fish? Does it become french when it passes the halfway point in the channel? Oh, these are the questions that our country's going to be obsessing about for the next 50 years. Please, God know Andrew's in Melton Mowbray. Andrew, question or answer? Which also has a Brexit angle, doesn't it? But we're not going to go there. Question or answer, Andrew. It's a question. Carry on. What is the difference between a philharmonic and a symphony orchestra? Again? I think we've done this one. I don't think you have. I've never heard it. No, don't worry, I'm just not criticism of anyone. I'm just. Oh, is it not right? It's just a reflection of my own crumbling memory, that's all. To be honest with you, I think there is no difference. But we need someone to go definitive and answer the question properly. I've searched around, I've asked people and people have played in orchestras and they can't give me a definitive answer. I think we've had one in the past, but now you've made me worry that we may have given out a round of applause undeservedly if it wasn't actually definitive. But I think they're just different ways of saying the same thing. If you break them down, the greek phone. Phone would be the sound, wouldn't it? Sim many. And then. I don't know. I didn't do Latin, I just had lib. Cogito ergo sum, my friend. Cogito ergo sum. Right, you're on the list, Andrew. Thank you. No, thank you. The difference between a symphony orchestra and a philharmonic orchestra. Sam is in Edinburgh. Sam, question or answer? Hi, James. I'd like to offer an alternative answer to the animal growth rate. Go on, then. Go on, then. Go on, then. So, impressive, though some of the answers around fish have been. I think fish are cheating slightly in this respect. Oh, well, no, the original questioner didn't, so I have to point that out. Well, if you'll still have my answer that you're here now, I can hardly send you home, can I? Carry on. Yeah. So, obviously, fish have got all that water to support all that growth that they want to do over their lifetime. So I'd like to offer the red kangaroo for animals that give live birth and not with water to support them to grow massive. Kangaroos have a minuscule gestation period, about a month or something, and they give birth to very underdeveloped young that are about the size of a grain of rice. And obviously red kangaroos get pretty big. You say obviously. How big? Oh, seven foot. I wouldn't be able to tell you exactly how big, but they certainly stand taller than a human would be heavier. Seven or eight foot, then, tops. Yeah, that's pretty big. Yeah. I imagine in terms of weight, they're probably tens or thousands of times heavier, if not hundreds. No, I like it. I mean, who knows? That's the problem with this question, as we've discovered fairly rapidly, is that I don't know that there is a definitive answer to it. There should be, shouldn't there? I suppose it's hard to weigh every animal. Not really, though. I bet there is a definitive answer. And if it turns out to be the red kangaroo, then you'll have a round of applause in the bank. But I can't give it out. Now, don't get me wrong, I don't think I deserve one. One of the fish answers is probably more accurate, but I just think. No. Mystery hour is nothing if not a celebration of random knowledge, is it? And now you get. I had no idea that a baby kangaroo. So that would be a joey still, would it? Or does it become a joey a little bit later? So if I saw it and it was the size of a grain of rice, if I looked at it through a microscope, would it be like a little tiny kangaroo hopping all over the slope? Yeah. So shut up. Are you serious? No, they're like. They're very underdeveloped. Of course, it wouldn't be hopping any more than a newborn baby could go for a walk. What am I talking about? God, I'm stupid. Sometimes. It's a bit like Lilliput, you know, when Gulliver gets the animals out of his pocket after he's been rescued from Lilyput. So these tiny little sheep's running around the ship's cabin. Would you get a little tiny kangaroo hopping off the microscopes? Like, can I just apologize for that aberration? Sam, would you mind? No, not at all. Not atop, man. So, yeah, marsupials, they're boring. They're, like I say, very underdeveloped. They're pink. They can. They can't see. They. All they can do is get into the pouch, which is why. So the pouch is almost like an external womb, isn't it, in this kind of context? Yeah. Yeah, kind of is. Yeah. You're on. I like it. Thank you. But you're not getting a round of applause as you acknowledge that. But I'd love that. Shared knowledge. 1242 is the time Adrian is in Bournemouth. Adrian, question or answer? I think you're going to be angry. Actually, I phoned up for a Stuart inquiry. That's all right. We like stewards inquiries, as long as they're solid. But in the meantime, I figured something else out, which I'll tell you in a second, but that's not allowed. You have to clear everything with the producer. Then she can vet you and not let you on. If you're cleverer than me, you know how it works. The problem is, I know that I'm right with. Because I. Because I'm a dive master. I'm a scuba dive master. And it's something we learn in that. Go on. The Stewart inquiry was about the guy that mentioned about steering in space. Yes. He's half right. He's half right. Go on. But he's right. With his. With Newton's law. But as soon as he said the word weight, he went off course, because there's nothing. There is. He should have said mass. Yes. Okay. That is a technical pedantry. Pedantic technicality. Well, you could squirt orange juice out the side of a spaceship and it would move. You could what? You could squirt orange juice out the side. Didn't work. The only reason they select what they do is because it costs so much per gram to get anything into space, so they select the thing that's the lightest. So he's sort of. Right. I'm going to move on from that. But the thing that's come to me. You haven't cleared this with the producer, though, and you have to clear everything with the producer, otherwise we'd have loads of people who understand Brexit better than I do on the program every day, making me look stupid. Do you not. Do not read twitter? I do, yeah. Carry on. Go on, then. You can do it just because it's you. Okay, the animal. I'm ready. Yeah. If I could tell you there is something in the world which is classed as a single animal once it's grown, but it's made up of billions of tiny polyps and can be miles wide. Yeah. What would you think? Coral. It would be a coral reef. Yeah. I just said coral. But that's not an animal. It is an animal. Not for the purposes. Not for that. Yeah, but not for the purposes of this conversation. But you can't make. You can't make the rules of the natural world up. James, just. Hello, I'm James O'Brien. That's why we vet callers. It is definitely 100% coral reef. You know that the bloke that asked the question is not going to accept coral as an answer, so you might be taking. So that's two world class examples of pedantic technicalities. Did you see my pedantic post I sent you the other day? I don't know about the DIY sofa. Yes. Yes, I did see that. That was a pedantic technicality as well. That was a lovely moment on the program and you had to come along and believing that you could enhance it in some way. Adrian, have a round of applause for your pedantic technicalities. It's quarter to one mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time most photographed landmark on the planet. I thought a couple of these would be quite easy to do, actually, because they're kind of like measurements aren't they? So just counting, really. So the most photographed landmark on the planet. What do you reckon then? So. But do you know we'd be in with a chance on that? Big Ben, do you think? I don't know. Not enough people go to India, do they, to see the Taj Mahal. The problem is everyone you know has ever been there has shown you a blinking picture of it. But it doesn't mean that many people have been there. Big Ben, bong. I do not know. Why do we run in an anti clockwise fashion around a running track? That's got to be worth it. Very easy. That's an open goal. I think we've done it before. And what's the difference between a symphony orchestra and a philharmonic orchestra? And birth weight, the biggest multiple from the weight at birth to the weight when fully grown. So the red kangaroo is several thousand times bigger when it's fully grown than it is at its birth weight. What is the biggest, the biggest gap? And coral is not an acceptable answer. Andy's in Liverpool. Andy, question or answer? It's the answer to the 400 meters track and why we run round. Yes. Anti clockwise. It's just a suggestion more than an actual answer because I'm sure none of us can really come to the bottom of it. But if you're going to do any type of study, you've got to look at reliability and validity. So if you're going to do a test, you've got to do it the same way every single time. So if you're running a race and you're measuring down to 0.2 of a second, then obviously you're going to. You want to standardize it. Now, when you're doing sprinting, you obviously run around the track and you run around the bend and the bends are the important things because predominantly, most of us are right handed and right footed. Most of the forces go onto the right leg and the arm, the right arm comes across the body. So for a lot of us, it's way more comfortable to run round on an anti clockwise rotation. And that's basically probably why they've standardized it to go anti clockwise. And then every track has to be the same, otherwise you wouldn't have. You wouldn't be able to have international records. Do you know what? I think you're right. I was a bit bruised when you suggested it might not be possible to go definitive because I'm pretty sure we've gone definitive in the past. But. But actually, I think that that is one accepted solution or answer. But there are others including some vein that takes blood to the heart. And if you're running in an anti clockwise fashion, it works a bit better than it does if you're running in a clockwise fashion. Yeah. It's a simple biomechanics of it, but it's not simple. But it's biomechanics, which would obviously make it a lot more easier for qualifications. Masters in strength and conditioning and I've just written a dissertation on curvilinear sprinting. Have you really? I haven't. What is curvilinear sprinting, then? Curvilinear sprinting is sprinting in a curve. So not straight line. So as in anything over 100 meters in conventional. Not necessarily. You can adapt it to field sports. So most football players, for instance. Well, I mean, this is really interesting because I sense you're not a regular listener to the program, Andy. I am, yeah. Oh, are you? Well, most of the time. No. Fair enough. It's not a test. It's not. I mean, it's not. It's not a test, but I think you've qualified for the biggest honor that we can put on the program, if you've honest. No, I mean, if you've just written a dissertation. Dissertation. I can't say the word. Did you watch Paul Karf or are you younger than me? When Steve Coogan used to do Paul Karf, his character, I didn't watch much Steve Coogan today. I'm about the same age as you. Oh, are you? Oh, you missed out on that. It was funny because he used to take the Mickey out of students all the time and he said, dissertation. There'd be a student. I can't swear. Flipping out. That was close. And flipping student. And he had a dog called dissertation. Can't hear the word dissertation coming from anyone without hearing Steve Coogan's Paul calf in the back of my mind. But if you've just done research. Project done. Yeah. Look it up. You won't. You used to play a sister as well, Pauline. Cough. Anyway, I'm going to give you one of these. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, well, they will. And a round of applause. There you go. Thank you. Take that in your dissertation and smoke it. Have a good day. Take care. 1253. Sean's in Maidenhead. Sean, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. Sean, this is the symphony thermic. Question. Yes. Basically, you've got to start with the word orchestra. There are two types of orchestra? Yes. There's chamber orchestras and symphony orchestras. Right. Chamber orchestras play chamber music, which is generally for smaller orchestras. So it's written for less. Symphonies are written for bigger orchestras. We've got more instruments. Then you've got symphony and Philharmonic. They are both essentially the same in that they both play symphonies. Yes. Philharmonics are generally names applied to actual orchestras in places. So New York Philharmonic. Yes. But it could equally be New York symphony, couldn't it? Yes. And the idea there is a bit like Glasgow Rangers. Glasgow Celtic. Oh, really? It was just another way of. So if you had two rival orchestras in the same town, you're not turning up to the wrong one. Oh, that's really funny. And then the other thing is that you can. You. If you are James O'Brien's orchestra, you can't be a philharmonic. You can only be a symphony. How come? Just the rules, mate. Oh, well, I love that about qualifications. My daughter plays violin at the Royal College and I was interested in the whole subject. So when I answered a question a while back on orchestras, I just went and looked it all up, basically. Fantastic. I love it. Round of applause for Sean. Thanks. No, thank you. 1255. I just did something a bit brexity. Did anybody notice when I was talking about the Taj Mahal, I worked on the principle that it would only be photographed by people from my own world? Someone pointed out, quite rightly, that India has a population of over a billion people, every one of whom could have made a trip to the Taj Mahal and taken a photograph. That is. That is how Brexit happened. You look at the world through the completely distorted lens of thinking that the only people that really matter are the people immediately in front of you. Huh. Dave is in Truro. Dave, question or answer? Well, it's a. It's a steward's inquiry and an answer, in a way. Oh, wow. Sorry about this. That's right. Well, it's about the largest animal in comparison to its birth weight. Yes. Or size. Yes. I think it is a whale shark. Yeah, I think you might be right. What do you base that on? Well, I'm also a dive master, like a previous caller. So I've got an interesting fish. Um, however, it's not. They're not eggs. Some sharks do give birth to live. Okay. So fry, like, Fry. Baby shark. Do do do do do do. Come on. What? That's actually a thing. So shark is actually about 30 cent. They give birth to about 30 centimeter long babies, but they grow baby shark. Baby shark. Yeah. Do do do. I'm gonna play this back to my twelve year old. She's gonna be so proud of me. For the first time ever, actually, I've managed to smuggle baby shark. Do do do do do do. She was teaching it to me on the piano last night. Qualifications? Dive master. Yes. It's not enough, but I gave everyone else a round of applause. You probably are right, but I bet it's in the Guinness Book of Records. I've just been too strict about telling everyone not to look it up. Anyway, I've got beef with the Guinness book record. Round of applause for Dave. Thank you. No, thank you. Graham's in Orpington. Graham. Question or answer? Do do do do do do do. It's an answer, James, for the question of most photograph landmark. But it is a bit of a leap of logic, I'm afraid, because the most visited country on the planet is France. They have more tourists than any other country. So not after Brexit, mate. They'll be coming here in their droves. You just wait and see for a red, white and blue tourist. The destination. Yeah, all right. I believe you. So, France. Most visited tourist destination in France is Paris. Most visited landmark in Paris is what you've done. There is a little bit of deduction, isn't it? It is. I feel bad because I tweeted you earlier saying it's going to be the pyramids. It's obviously the pyramids. And then I thought about it, I thought, no, it's France. No, probably the pyramids. Just not enough people would visit. And I'm not being Brexit II because I know there's lots of Egyptians that might take pictures of pyramids as well. But I think if gone. And one of the earliest photographs is of the pyramids as well. Is that correct? I didn't know. Yeah. Yeah. Mid 19th century, I think. I don't want to start a. I don't want to start a sort of culture war or indeed relitigate anything or indeed sound like. But why do so many people want to go to France? Well, a place of culture, you think about a diplomatic language. They've got nice food, good weather, relatively friendly, since we haven't had an issue with them for a couple of hundred years. Until recently. Yeah, give it time. They're nice. Yeah. No fair. A good answer. Have a round of applause. I'm going to tell you, Eiffel Tower seems to be a very strong contender. We finished everything. What haven't we got? We never got. Yeah, we kind of. I can squeeze in doubt. Daniel in bushy but, mate, it is gone. Quickly. Running tracks, ancient Greece. Go on. And quick on for you. I was running, so running. I was visiting the first place where the Olympics were in Athens. Yeah. I've been a tour guide. Yeah. The tour guides were telling us that when the Greeks first started running around tracks, they believed their natural eyesight moved from left to right, as when they sort of read script and so forth, and hence they ran around the track, left to right, I think. Yeah, I'd give you that. Have a round of applause. 1259 is the time. That's it from me for another day. Sheila Fogarty is here. We'll see you tomorrow at ten.