James O'Brien - Mystery Hour

LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. A few of you pointing out that we have already had mystery out today, given the question that we asked in the first hour about what Teresa May stands for. Continue that conversation on social media if you want, but we turn our attention next to the. To the much beloved feature of the programme that offers you an opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You almost certainly have nestled away in the corners of your consciousness a question to which you know there must be an answer, and an answer which you would love to know but which you have thus far in your life been unable to secure. This is your chance to secure it. Very simply put, you give me a ring, you pose your question, somebody else rings in and they answer it. The number you need to do that remains, as ever, zero 345-606-0973 and apart from a couple of little rules which I'll share with you now, that's pretty much it. Don't be boring is rule number one. So don't ring in with a question that sort of, you know, only you're going to be interested in the answer to. Usually, motoring is the best example of that category. And rule number two is don't be repetitious. But that's probably more my job than yours. In other words, don't ask a question that we've answered relatively recently. You can check the old archive at LBC dot co dot UK, but otherwise it's up to me and the team to keep an eye on questions that we have dealt with before. Still need a little bit of clarification. You probably know those newspaper and magazine features that try to do something similar notes and queries, Q's and A's. So you write in, say, why do we do that? What's the origin of this? Where does that come from? At what point does x become y? Or why does that do that? And this do the other? And that's kind of how it works, is that we get much quicker satisfaction because I've been away for a few weeks, it means that you've got a better chance of getting through in the next two or three minutes than you normally would have in the first ten minutes of the hour. After that, it generally depends upon how much repetition there is. So if you've got a question, a who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whence, a wither and even the occasional wherefore. Hear the numbers. Now. You will get through. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I don't, I'm afraid, take anything via text or tweet or email on this, because the phones get so busy. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you do know the answer, then please ring in and provide the answer. There are two prizes up for grabs. One is relatively easy to secure. That is a bona fide mystery hour. Round of applause. One of the most sought after plaudits available in the british media. And the other is the veritable holy grail of british radio, Rayliota, that would be awarded to you if your qualifications for asking the question are almost unbelievably strong. So if, for example, we had a question about space travel and your buzz Aldrin and you ring in, you get a Ray Liotta. It doesn't perhaps need to set the bar quite that high, but it gives you an idea, I think, of what I'm talking about. So there's one phone line for you if you don't get through. Judicious use of redial is the answer. It's a tough job, actually, for Caroline and Anoushka, because you don't know where the questions have been answered before, you don't know whether they've been asked before, and you don't know how boring you are when you ring in with a really boring question that you think is interesting. So do please be polite to both of them if you're lucky enough to get through to the programme. Otherwise, don't just wait. If you hear me say the number, it means there's phone lines. Free zero. 345-606-0973 if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then if you don't ring in and answer it, there's a very strong chance that your radio will actually melt. Sophia is in Devon. Sophia. Question or answer? It's a question, Jane. Carry on in your own time, Sofia. Right, cloud nine. Why do we say I'm on cloud nine? Because I've never been on cloud. I was coming back on the plane, I was looking at all the clouds and I thought, well, what's this about cloud nine? So you mean a position of epic happiness? Yes. Well, what it really means is it's as high as you can go, isn't it? You can't. You can't be any. Yeah, you can't be any happier than cloud nine. Well, why cloud nine. I saw more than nine clouds in the sky. No, but there's nine layers of clouds as you make your way up the. As you make your way up the. Is it called the stratosphere? Yeah, no, I've done this before. I'm just talking a little bit in the hope of the thought coalescing while I. While I kind of just filled. Filled. Fill the space with you. It's good. It's not come to me, but I think it is. There's like, you know when you look at the sky, when you're in a plane, you just come back from your holidays, there's clouds quite low and there's clouds quite high. Right. Yeah. So the. The atmosphere is measured in levels and cloud nine is the highest level. So when you're on cloud nine, that's as happy as you can be. Bb, I think you're going to want someone a little bit better qualified than me, aren't you? Yeah. Do you know what? I'm in such a great mood at the moment. I think I'll allow you to be so sort of implicitly rude to me without any comeback whatsoever. You so were. Because I'm right, but I'm just not right enough for you. Yeah, well, it's not a definitive answer. That's probably also fair comment, actually, as it goes. So, cloud nine, what is it and why? Where does the phrase come from last time you were on cloud nine? Sophia, bearing in mind this is a family program. Yes, I am. I'm living in Devon, so I definitely am. That'll do. That'll do. Nine minutes after twelve. Ironically enough, what is the meaning of the phrase to be on cloud 90? 345-606-0973 what's going on? Well, the question's rubbish or you're just not bothering to answer them. Caroline says the questions have been absolutely rubbish so far. So she's wiped the board. Well, not quite, but you've got a better chance of getting through than you did three minutes ago. And stop ringing in with rubbish questions. Honestly, it's tough enough for her having to work with me every day without you adding to her burdens with your uselessness. Richard is in Norwich. Richard. Question. Answer. It's your question, James. Good man. Carry on. The question is, I play guitar very badly. So does Iggy. I'm right handed. Why do I assign the most difficult job to my left hand, which is making the chord shapes? I just strum with the right hand. I thought I was about to bite your head off, then I thought you're describing your own curious guitar playing technique. But everybody right handed does the fretboard with the left hand and just strums with the right hand. Yeah. So why. Well, if you tried to do it the other way around, it's impossible. Well, that's your answer, isn't it? Yeah, but I'm right handed. But. No, I know, but that is yours. If you try to do it the other way around, it's almost impossible. Well, by definition I'm right handed. I do everything else that's complicated, like writing with my right hand. Why do I not assign the most complicated? Maybe it's not the most complicated, actually might feel like it is, but it's different sort of coordination. I have a very good friend who is an internationally renowned rock guitarist. He's actually left handed and he plays it the other way around. That's how his guitar specially made or at least specially strong, I think specially made. But I don't know whether he could get them specially made before he became an internationally round rock renowned rock guitar. So why, why, why does the really tricky bit go to the. To the less dexterous hand, is the question. Exactly that. Exactly that great stuff. Well, I can't answer. Don't. I'll try and find you one. How good are you or how bad are you? Oh, pretty poor. Really? Yeah. All right, well, I'll try. I'll try and get you an answer. Maybe you should try it the other way around. Stick with it, you might get better. 1211 is the time. Why, what, where, when? What is cloud nine and why did you like that question? Actually, I wonder if anybody even knows. What. Why do you. Why do you play? Why, if you play in the guitar, why is it your less good hand, the one that does the trickiest bits? Steve's in Bracknell. Steve, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Cricket. Cricket? Yeah. Why is it that fielding side only, the wicketkeeper wears gloves? What? Well, the wicketkeeper wears gloves. Yeah. Well, he's the one that the ball is going faster when it hits him than it is when it hits anybody else. No, no, no. When you watch a cricket and the guys hit the ball and it's going a fair old rank. Yeah. And the guys are trying to catch it. I know. Nine times out of ten they'll catch it with their bare hands. Yeah. I was just wondering, why can't they wear like they do in baseball, like a catchers mitt? Yeah, catchers mitt. Yeah. They make it easier to catch the ball because we're. Because we're English, Steve, and we set ourselves challenges instead of making life easy. It's a bit like asking why rugby players don't wear suits of armor. It's because we're proper sports people. We're heroics. We're following in the tradition of the Olympians who competed naked. It's our colonial cousins on the other side of the Atlantic who need to have special helmets and head guards and shoulder pads and gloves and things like that. It's just a mark of an Englishman. Yeah. Bad boy, isn't it? Well, I don't know. Also, you can't throw. I mean, fielding is different in cricket. You can't throw as well, you know. So the short answer is where the wicketkeeper stands. Having two big heavy gloves increases his efficiency on three fronts. It makes it easier to catch balls moving at speed in that catchment area, literally. Catchment area. Now we know what that word means. Secondly, as you know, you can do a stumping when you're wicket keeper and it's almost impossible to do. If you've had to catch the ball with your sort of flesh, you can just do that lovely fluid movement. You're allowed to knock the bales off the top of the stumps with the end of your gloves as long as the ball is in your gloves. And number three. What? No, I'm saying cool. Shall I agree? And number three, the wicketkeeper doesn't have to lob the ball for miles in the way that almost every other fielder on the part might do. Even if you're in the slips or you're at silly mid on, you end up chasing the ball. If you've got whopping great gloves on, you've got to take your glove off, drop it. You know, I think it's either an unanswerable question or I've just answered it. You decide. I'll take a undecided, but I still feel if you want, even if you're left over, you can still scoop the ball up off the ground. Yeah, right. Well, then it's just the answer is. It's the blooming rules, mate, innit? Well, it is, yeah. They should change the rules. Why? Cricket's brilliant. Why would they change the rules to make cricket more like baseball? Well, no, no, I mean to easy to catch the ball. Well, all right. I don't know if this is even a question now, after this fascinating exchange of thoughts. I don't know. I was just sitting here listening to you thinking. Yeah, I'll just ask the question. Cricket club. Why can't they all wear gloves in cricket? Go on, then. I'll put it on the board. But I suspect the answer is the same. The same answer is why you can't pick up the ball and run with it in a game of football. Yeah, probably. Yeah. Or ball in overarmed. Yeah, you can do that, can't you? 1215 is the time. 1217 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we are in the business of solving mysteries big and small. I like today's questions, some more than others. Cloud nine, I'm pretty sure we've done before, but I can't remember the answer, so I can hardly criticize you for not being able to. Where does it come from, the phrase cloud nine? When you play the guitar? Why is your less dexterous hand the one that does the hardest work? So, if you're right handed, your left hand does the fret work. And if you're left handed, generally your right hand will do the fret work. Whereas theoretically, you should use the hand that is most dexterous to do the trickiest bit. Strumming's a piece of cake. You know, a lot of you especially got plectrum or. I mean, you're not really doing anything. And why are wicketkeepers the only cricketers allowed to. And batsmen, of course, but why are wicketkeepers the only fielders in cricket allowed to wear gloves? 1218 is the time. Lee's in. Steven, is Lee. Question or answer? Question. James gone in. First time caller, long time listener. So go easy on me. I'm hardly gonna beat you up on mystery, am I, Lee? Go on. Hang on. No, can't you. Chickens. What have you got? I've been away a couple of times lately with the family on little holidays, and both times there's hills or mountains. I weren't really sure which. Yes, my question is, when does a hill become a mountain? I actually know this. Well, I know in America. Okay, a thousand feet. And what are your qualifications? Just remember it from somewhere. It's about 300 meters. Okay, you guessing that? No, no. A thousand feet is about 300 meters. No, not on that. On. That is the. No, I've got it. It's one of those little nuggets. I've got farther away in the back of my bonds. Right, okay. So, yeah, I didn't know if I had anything to do with having a peak or a shape or. Hills are generally easier to climb and they'll be less steep than mountains, but I think that's just coincidental. What? Okay, I just. Someone's just texted to say that that was true once and it isn't true anymore. So I'm not going to give myself a round of applause. What's the. And also it's american, apparently not british, but still, I mean, you know, just say something complimentary to me. Quickly struggling here. Well, come on, mate, just say, wow, you've done all right, mate. Usually you're right. Yeah, usually. Yeah. Cheers. I think I am kind of right, but I'm not right enough to get a round of applause on this, so you won't. When does a hill become a mountain? Sounds like a Radiohead song. I like it. I like it as well. I'll find out for you. So what's the definition of a mountain, really? I mean, we don't want to get blindsided by hillocks, do we? And sort of grassy mounds and knolls and things like that. So the hill becomes the mountain at point x. I will find out for you, Lee, I promise you. 20 minutes after twelve, Nick is in Chesham. Nick, question or answer? Oh, hi. How can you sound surprised when you're on hold to talk to me when I say hello and you go, oh, hi, it's the shock of fame, is that what it is? Just the spotlight comes upon you and even though you're standing on stage waiting for it, the thrill is still visceral. Carry on, Nick. Absolutely. As I am absolutely in my thrilled state. I have. I had one answer for you while I was on hold, I realized I had two. I also have a bit of gossip for you. Hang on a minute. Just do stick to the thing you told the producer to start with. Okay, I'll be quick. I've been a guitar teacher for 40 years. Good man. And the reality is it's actually quite difficult with both hands when you start. Yes, you could argue it's easier to keep a sense of rhythm with your dominant hand, but there's not really much in it, depending on the style of music you play. If you're doing Rodrigo's guitar concerto, your right hand's just as busy as your left. Tell me about it. So, yeah. So that's the answer. Well, it isn't really. Well, I don't know. I mean, so you could teach yourself to play the wrong way around and it would be just as. It's kind of the same thing as learning to write. I think the rhythm. I think the rhythm thing. I think the rhythm thing is part is a bigger part of the answer than you thought. Yeah. It's probably the most underestimated part of being a decent player because you never. It'd be like, that's the answer, mate. You've done it. Because it would be like truck aids. Play some music. And now click your fingers along to it in time with your hand. That's not dominant. And it's harder than it is. It's hard. So I played the drums for a very brief period of time as a kid. I was particularly rubbish at it, but I was better with my right hand than I was in my left hand. Now, there you go. That's what it is. So you're keeping the rhythm with the right hand and you teach yourself. Yeah, yeah. Because if the rhythm. If the rhythm is being kept by the right hand, the left hand's got to keep up with it. I like that a lot. I like. I think that's. Axel is my musical colleague. What are we thinking, Axel? We go, see, isn't. He's done it. He's only gone. And I mean, to be fair, 40 years of guitar teacher. If he couldn't do it, nobody could. What was the other answer you came up with? Was it to the same question? Well, can I do the gossip first? It's very quick. Well, you better be good. And it can't be libelous. Is the subject of the gossip living or dead? Living. Is it? Could it be considered in any way libelous? Not even slightly. Carry on. Okay. Scott from balcony shirts. Oh, yeah, I used to be one of my pupils. Well, you taught him guitar? Yeah. Well, we also played in a band together at one point. It's just unbelievable. Balcony shirts. Balcony shirts of Oxbridge. You are his guitar teacher? I was, yeah, when he was about 15. Was he any good? Yeah, he's great. Did he nearly make it? Could he have been a contender? Well, we both did a bit of touring and things. I mean, to be honest, given that the chapter who you refer is known more to me than anybody else listening to the program, I can't give you a Ray Liotta for being Scott. Scott Balcony's guitar Tuz. You obviously get on so well with him and he's just so funny. He is a legend. He is an absolute star. He really is. I gotta give you an extra round. I'm gonna give you an enhanced round of applause. You can't tell that it's enhanced when you hear it, but. But you, as a. As a guitar teacher of 40 years standing, you will detect certain tones and notes in it that reassure you. It's a better quality round of applause than I play out ordinarily. It won't be wasted on me. Carry on. Great work. Good gossip. Was it gossip? I think it was just a nugget. Trivia. Not really gossip, but, hey, when does a mountain become a mountain? Or rather, when does a hill become a mountain? Why? Wicketkeepers. The only people on the cricket pitch fielding allowed to wear gloves. And what is the origin of the figure of speech? Cloud nine. Sami's in Croydon. Sammy, question or answer? Hi, James. Got a question? Carry on, mate. Okay, so it's a little bit tricky to explain, but I'll try and crack on with it. So we know that exercise is good for you, yeah? Yes. And we know that breathing in pollution is bad for you. So what I want to know is how many pollute, how many particles need to be in the air or at what point does. What point is the crossover point that you're now doing yourself more harm than good by being outdoors, exercising? Does that make sense? Yeah. I mean, I don't know that exercise is relevant to it. It would be the point at which breathing is bad. Yeah. Because I. I cycle to work from the train station, but most of my route is through the park. I've always just been curious, like, am I obviously the parts where I'm going through the urban parts of the streets and stuff, am I doing. Am I doing myself? But you're going to be doing yourself some good in different ways, regardless of the cardiovascular element of it on you, because you're using your muscles and you're doing physical exercise in ways that will be beneficial. But you're worried, at what point does the air quality compromise my exercise? Yeah, at what point is it better off me not being outdoors at all? So I think that's a brilliant question, but unlike you, I think we've got as close as we can to nailing down what the question actually is. But it still feels strangely inadequate, doesn't it? I think the answer might be like microns or like particles meter cubed or something like that. Someone else asked me a question. I didn't really understand it. They were telling me about illegal drugs that make your heart beat faster. I'm wondering whether that was good for you in terms of exercise, given that the reason why you go running around the park and riding your bike is in large part to get your heart rate up. Yeah. But then that makes. I think that makes your resting heart rate go lower regularly. So I think it makes. Yeah, I think it's good for you. Yeah. Yeah. I like your question. I'm not a massively optimistic that we're going to get an answer. One for the professor. Maybe. But, James, I got one more. One more thing, please. What is it today? It's like it's not Christmas. What's going on? The last fella. It's my mom's birthday next week. She's a massive fan and she showed me. She introduced me to this show and LBC, and I've been listening for years, ever since. So if you could wish her a happy birthday, that'd be great. What day is the birthday? 6 September. What day of the week is that? Wednesday, I think. Will she be listening? Definitely on Wednesday. Or do you want me to do it now? I can show her on the podcast on Wednesday. Or now I can show her on Wednesday. Whatever you prefer. Well, I might forget. I usually ask Caroline to remind me, and then about two days later, I say, you were supposed to remind me to say happy birthday to Sammy's mum ago. Sorry. Whatever. All right. Well, yeah, you just. Just. What's your mom's name? What? Mona. Mona? Mona. Happy birth. Is it a big birthday? Is it a zero in it or not? No, no, zero is in it, but we'll stay away from the age, all right? No, I don't want to know. All right? I mean, whatever age she is, she looks a lot younger, I'll tell you that for nothing. Mona, happy birthday and congratulations on having such an attentive son of such exceptional taste with regard to radio listening. Happy birthday, Mona, from me, James O'Brien, on LBC. Oh, she'll love it. Cheers. Good man. 1227. Right. No more extraneous requests or extracurricular in subjections, all right? Dave's in Kensington. Dave, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Dave, to the cricket question. Yes. It's just like you were pretty much right. It's just historical development. A keeper gets the ball more often than anyone else in the field. Anybody fielding will fight for the keeper. Possibly, if the ball goes past the batsman, the keeper's going to catch it. If he edges it, the keeper might catch it. It makes him better. Yeah. What are the rules, though? Do you reckon if you turned up wearing wicket keeping gloves at mid on, you'd be chucked off the park? No, you'd just be told you can't have it. It's like in the old days, gentlemen used to use their caps hats and they made it against the laws, not the rules, to take the hat off to catch the ball. Yeah. So. So we're between as we've nailed it. I'm going to give you the round of applause, but between, it's a mixture of on pitch, efficiency and. And registered formal rules and regulations. Yeah. Which is just developed since it was played. Qualifications. I've been playing for about 45 years. What's your biggest innings? 135 sharp. Seriously? Yeah. When was that? A long time ago. What level? Sunday twos league. Pretty sure gets pretty competitive, the Sunday leagues, don't they? They can do. They're very needily. Right. Sound you this, mate. Great work. Great work. It's coming up to 12:30. Crikey. I've barely drawn breath. I should tell you, if you're interested in such things, that while we've been on air doing mystery air, the United nations have condemned Donald Trump's lies about so called fake news. That's a United nations human rights commissioner. And Michel Barnier, the European Commission's chief Brexit negotiator, has said there's been no decisive progress on the key issues and that negotiators are still quite far away from being in a position to begin talks on future trade arrangements. A description which the british chief negotiator, David Davis, the same David Davis who said all this would be really, really easy has more or less agreed with. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour on LBC. More questions, more answers and more sort of in between ease after the very latest news headlines with Simon Conway. The 1234 is the time. The cricket question, I thought was very nicely answered. When does a hill become a mountain? And when does exercise become bad for you because of pollution? Zero. 345-606-0973 and the origin of the phrase cloud nine. That means I've got room for more questions. It's only half time. There's a couple of phone lines for you, so grab one if you can. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the. Is the number you need. Any question at all. You've seen how it works. Now, if you need to, this who, why, what, where, when? With a wherefore, whence, but make it funny or interesting. So you know the old ones about the baby pigeons and white dog poo. That's clearly not going to work for our purposes. Something that everyone else is going to go. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I've always wondered that as well. Or maybe not everyone else is going to do that, but a significant proportion of the people listening will go, oh, yeah. I've always wondered that as well. And I'm just wondering whether we should have given Nick the guitar teacher a ray Liotta, because it's been brought to my attention that he was actually a rather modest man and is a very prominent, possibly one of the finest exponents of the steel pedal guitar currently alive. So anyway, I'll leave that hanging. Cloud nine. Exercise and pollution and hills and mountains. Alex is in Guildford. Alex, question or answer? That's an answer. James. Hello, Alex. How are you? I am. I'm all the better to be talking to you on princess hour. Today it's princess hour. Steve Allen has been rattling my cage again, no doubt in the small hours of the morning. And Alex is. I mean, as we're discussing the epic celebrity of Nick the guitar teacher, we probably shouldn't let yours go unnoticed or unmentioned. What? I'm an epic guitar player too. That's new to me, I must say. Thinking more of your epic celebrity? Oh, yeah. Cool. Carry on. Anyway, answer. Cirocumulus. Pardon? The answer to cloud nine. Oh, yes. There's nine types of clouds. Zero. Cumulus is the highest of all nine. Hence cloud nine. You're at the peak. The highest cloud. Indeed. Qualifications? Wayne in Basildon told me. Is that right? Yeah, he did. He's gone a bit niche. Well, you know, I'm edging for the Ray Liotta. Did he tell you on. On Twitter or did he tell you in person? Oh, we're definitely in person on mystery hour. I like it. I like this idea of little, little mystery. Our clubs are like book clubs, but sort of uglier. Well, it makes you feel a little bit more special, doesn't it? In joke, you can tell all your friends about. Brilliant. You'll get on that bingo sheet if you're not careful, mate, that someone's put together all the phrases that I use on a regular basis. I pause. Sod sits there every day ticking it off. I saved the recording. I've been trying to tell as many people as possible. You're in. You're in. Round of applause. David's on the m eleven. David, question or answer? Answer. James, Harry, answer. The Hillen Mountain. When does a hill become a mountain? It's to do with the underlying composition. A hill is earth, a mountain is rock. Nah. Oh, yes. Nah. Goes back to geography. O level. Can't be. Can't. Can't be. Can't be. Can't be. Can't be. Can't be afraid, sir. Well, okay, so you are telling me that a large rock on a rockery is a mountain? No. No. Why not? Because it's partially what you said about the height. Yes. Obviously earth can only be piled up to a certain height, but rock of course. Can go up. Yeah, but. But if I. If I've got 2000ft of rock and then I put 3ft of soil on the top of it, is it a hill or a mountain? It's a mountain because the underlying composition is rock. So when I go to the Malvern hills and start digging, I won't hit rock at any point until I reach sea level. Don't know. Well, you have to know in order to go definitive. But that was what I was taught at geography o level. Well, that doesn't mean it was right. It says Daz on the side of buses, but they don't sell it inside. Sorry, James, that's the answer. Oh, gosh. Is it easy? Is it? I can't believe it is. Because hills are caused by the same sort of things that mountains are caused by. It's like pressure tectonic plates pushing up. Hills are made of soil and mountains are made of rock. Yes. It was the underlying composition. I like that phrase. I like the phrase. The phrase is strong. Underlying composition sounds very, very plausible. But I am a master of plausible phrases which don't necessarily stay where you are. All right. Don't go away, David, seriously. Ross is in Dagenham. Ross, what have you got? Hello, sir. Hello, Ross. The answer is anything above 300 meters above sea level. It was on a film with you, granted, called the man that went up. I think he's right, David. All right, I'll give in. That was a bit easy. I think he's right. I remember that film. He was like a topographer or something, wasn't he? It was his job to kind of decide what were mountains and what were hills. Yes, mate. And I kept trying to trick him. They did keep. And it had nothing to do whether it was made of soils or rocks. Soil or rock, right. As long as it was 300 meters above sea level. I'm going to give you that, because it's. Not only is it tallying with what I said originally, but it also cites the beauty of qualifications. Poor old David thought he was drawing upon his geography o level. But in fact, having watched the movie last week, Ross in Dagenham comes away with the plaudits. I was at school with a lad, his dad was in the army. I've never told you this before, and he was a cartographer. It was his job to go into bits of the world where no one had ever been before, or at least where nobody from the west had ever been before, and actually make maps of it in case the army ever needed to go there. And he had a mountain named after him. He found a mountain that had never been. I mean, obviously the locals probably had a name for it, but he. He found the name for the mountain. I said, how cool is that? People have got a mountain named after. Alex is in Woolwich. Alex, question or answer? I think you thought I was Alex from Guildford. I did. And that. It all got a bit awkward. Yeah, it did, actually. Well, I was teasing him about his dead list celebrity. He didn't know what I was talking about. You're the genuine Zed list celebrity. I'm not on the Alphabet list anymore. Have you dropped off the bottom of the Zed list? I still have it as my handle. I know you do on Twitter. Might get back on it one day, who knows? Why don't they get you back on, like, the sideshow? Why don't you go on that, mate? I'm just not. I'm not pathetic enough. I don't think I watch you on big brother's. Little brother. Yeah, every now and again. I didn't do it this year. Why not? Well, I've got. I've got children now. My wife doesn't let me go out. Does she not? Alex was. Alex was one of the first stars of Big Brother. He was one of the big, big, sort of breakthrough characters of Big Brother. And I think even more impressively, you appeared on my short lived ITV chat show as well, Alex, which must have been a real career highlight for both of us. It was lovely. I loved the person I was sitting next to. She was really lovely. Anyway, I have a question which actually relates to my celebrity part. Oh, it's a bit about. In 2002, my agent said, alex, I think it's about time now, you did yourself a calendar. Wow. Big time. Twelve of the most sexiest shots. But unfortunately, I didn't count on Cliff Richards calendar being more sexy and I must have lost millions of sales. My mum did buy about 300 of them and they're sitting in the garage. I've just seen them because they just had a move, bless her. All I want to know is in what year will I be able to give them out as presents again? Because, you know, every year, you know, your birthday is always on a different day and what am I going to do with my. Have you missed it? What if it was two years ago? What if you missed it? What if you missed it? What if it was two years ago? It won't come around again for another hundred. Well, there's going to. There's going to be advanced breakthroughs in medical treatment, so I might still be alive in a jar or something. I love this. So you have got Alex Sibley 300 Alex Sibley calendars from your heyday, from your heyday as a big brother star, which was in 2002. In what year will those calendars work again in the context of days and months? Yeah. 2003 calendar. If anyone answers the question, I've been holding on so long, I've got about 3% on my phone, so I might miss it. So you'll have to message me. I'll dm you. I'll dm you with the answer if we get it. All right? I promise. Thank you very much. There you go. Special service for showbiz chums. Zed list mates. I'm going to give you a round of applause for a brilliant question as well. Love in the room 1243. Very nearly. That's brilliant. So you've got a 2003 calendar. You don't have to be a Zed list celebrity who ill advisedly had several hundred printed at the behest of his agent. You could just be a normal person with a 2003 calendar. At what point in the future does it actually become accurate again? Obviously, the year is never going to be accurate, but January 1 is on a Tuesday, the second is on a. See, I love that. Come on. How can you not love that question? You must be made a flint. In what year does a 2003 calendar work again? Zero. 345-606-0973 Daniel is in Hendon. Daniel, question or answer? Question, please. I always want, always wanted to know how they measure the height of waves. How do you mean? As in, you know, how they say, this wave is so high. How do they actually measure that height? Well, just take a picture of it, wouldn't they, and measure the picture. How do you measure a picture of a wave? With a ruler? So how do you say that there's a 20 foot wave or. Well, you've got a picture. You know how your camera works on scale? Yeah. So you take a picture of it and then you use the ruler and measure it, and then you times it by the scale that your camera works on. That's either a really bad answer or a really good one. And I'm 50 50 at the moment. Daniel, how are you feeling? Yeah, great. All good. Yeah. What about. I meant about my answer, not about life in general. Well, yeah, that as well. Great. All good. Do you think it was a good answer? I don't particularly. I don't think I understand it, no. Then it's a bad answer, isn't it? That's not. It's not. Did we say that? We say 34. I mean, how accurate is it? How do they. You mean it like when they're on the news and they're saying there's a flood and there's 30 foot waves coming in over there? Yeah. All right. I haven't had any rounds of applause yet today. I don't think this has happened for years. I can't really give myself one for this one. Leave it with me, mate. All right, thank you. No, thank you. How do we measure waves? Zero. 345-606-0973 not radio waves or sine waves, but waves in the sea waves. So we need that. We need the waves. We need the calendar. Exercise and pollution. Cloud nine. We've done cricket gloves. We've done hill in a mountain. We've done. So we've got calendars and waves. Isn't it zero? 345-606-0973 which means I've got room for a couple more questions as well after this mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call oh 304 5606-0973 it is 1247. We need a couple of answers. Exercise and pollution. And I love this one. At what point does a 2003 calendar work? Again, we need to know this because Alex Sibley, who was on big brother back in the day, had loads of them printed off. He's sort of all buff and probably without. He was a model. You remember the fellow, he's always cleaning stuff and he's got loads left in his mum's garage. He wants to know when he start giving them away again. As post modern ironic presents. Lawrence is in Radley. Lawrence, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. Okay. Right. If I run my finger down my shin bone. Hang on a minute. This isn't some sort of sex line. Well, it is, yeah. Oh, carry on. Numbers. Go on. Is this not one of those? No, sorry. It's very jagged. Yes. Now, was I born with that or. Sorry, I'm out of breath because I've been running for a train? It's getting worse. Is this the result of childhood sort of falling down and chipping away at my bone? Well, no. I mean, there's no earthly way that you, during your childhood, had sort of little bits of bone chipped away from your shin bone without any sort of medical intervention or epic pain. I don't know if I feel the nearby bone. They're all smooth and nice. Just the top of my shin bone on both legs, is very jagged. So it says, why is it so jagged? Why is it like, it's just. It's a bone. It's a jagged bone. It's like asking why the other bones aren't jagged. Why are they so unjagged? There's no way that getting kicked in the shins a lot as a kid has had a lasting physiognomical effect upon you and your bones. You fall a lot, Sam, when you. When you're a kid and you fall over a lot. You do. Yeah, but you also fall on your elbows, your head. Well, I never felt on my head, but I might. I'm beginning to wonder, mate, having a result in Argentina. I'll put it on the board. I'm surprised it got through, I'll be honest with you. I've got a full switchboard here and the girls have decided that this is the best question we've got going. I think it is. And can I just say just one little thing? I'd just like to say hello to Ken, who listens to your program every week. To Clem. I'm corny. All right. It's all gone a bit beacon radio today. All these little private messages and secret, secret handshakes. You're on. All right. Well, all right, Clem. Take it easy. Nice mate you got there in Lawrence, looking out for you. Same with Sammy's mum. Will is in Bromley. Will, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on. Why. Why do parrot. Why are parrots and budgerigars the only birds that you can teach to speak? Minor birds. You can teach a minor bird. Oh, maybe a minor bird, but not a duck or something. You can teach a duck to say, quiet. No, stop. Well, yeah, or a pigeon. I mean, there's some. There are some parakeets that fly around in Bromley Beckenham area. I mean, everywhere now. Parakeet, seriously, everywhere. And they make it such a racket, but I'll never hear them chat. Horrible noise. Horrible noise. Yeah, I. Okay, I like that. So it's also. I think you can get something weird to talk, like a jack door or something like that as well. I was reading about it, but that's the point. What, what. What of the birds that you can teach words to? Got that all the other birds haven't got? That's it. Talking birds. I like it. Shin bones, cad nine. We've done calendars. We've got to get an answer for the calendar. And how do you measure a wave? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Tom's in great Yarmouth. Tom, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Tom. Yeah. How do you measure a wave? Yes, we do it by two different methods. We either have a fix a buoy. So a floating object with a chain under it with some big elastic bands type of thing. Yeah, I got it. So as the elastic bands stretch, you roughly know how much they're stretched by some computers. Work it out. They're. So you take a before and after picture, as it were. Yeah, yeah, got it. And they're scattered all across the. Across the world. Yeah. And then we also have larda. That's a type of radar. Oh. So they are being fixed on, like, offshore drilling rigs and that sort of thing. Qualifications? I'm a master on a wind farm vessel. What's a wind farmer? You mean you service the turbines that are out at sea near Yarmouth? Yeah, that's correct. I like it. I like it. I've been to the one in Fakenham. No, not Fakenham. Swaffin. Yeah. The one you can go up the turbine. You can go up. Have you been there? Yeah. Well, the ones we're building offshore are now much bigger on them. I love them. I wonder, is this a Rayleigh outer moment? It's not quite, is it? Oh, man. That was. No, it was close, but it's. I mean, you're. It's not quite. No, it's a brilliant, brilliant answer and your qualifications are superb. And I'm gonna definitely give you this, no questions asked. I can't quite. Can't quite give you a radio to moment, because it's not. I mean, it's not quite, you know, like you didn't invent it or something like that. Sadly not. Is that fair enough? Do you live in Yarmouth? No, I live in Whitsborne, Kent. Oh, okay. All right, Tom, thank you very much indeed. Great answer. 1252 is the time we can cross off that one. How do you measure waves? The calendar and the budgies. What? The birds. Birds you can teach words to. What have they got that all the other birds haven't got? And is it possible that getting kicked in your shins when you're a child can have a lasting effect upon your bone shape when you grow up? That's going to be a yes, isn't it? I always make a fool of myself when I mock a question. Where are we going next? Let's go to Adam, who's in Peterborough. Adam, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The answer to the calendar question. The calendar question. Get on. Yes. The last time could have been 2014. He missed it. What a prune. Sorry, carry on. Next. Next time. Will be 2025. How do you work it out? Well, there's a handy website. Oh, you've looked it up. Which you're not allowed to do. I knew about it before that I knew about this. No, I'm not gonna. But I'm not gonna monster you for that because. No, I'm not gonna monster you because it's a fair bit. It's a fair play. And I forgot to give the rules at the outset. I didn't say this week that you're not allowed to look anything. Obviously it makes a complete mockery of the whole of mystery if anybody ever looks anything up. But it's on an eleven year cycle. Is it that a calendar comes back around again? What about leap years? That would be a complication. I don't know. You're the bloomin expert. This is what happens when people ring in with stuff they've just looked up on a website. Would leap years make a massive difference or not? Not necessarily, no, it wouldn't. That's why it's not a round number, actually. Probably. You sure this is kosher, Adam? Yes. Yes. Well, you would say that if you're desperate for a round of applause. Are you sure this is kosher? Yes. All right, so 2025 is the answer for Alex. Yes. I hope his phone has run out. Was he the one that did the dancing that was caught on the webcam? The sexy dancing? Yeah, in the. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Remember in his pants? I try not to. Oh, you just did. Round of applause for Adam. I just noticed he doesn't actually follow me on twitter, so I'm not going to dm him the answer. Hope his phone did run out. Cheeky Baker. Alex is in Glasgow. Alex, question or answer? Stewards and quiet. Oh, no, go on. It's the cloud nine question. Oh, really? Go on. What went wrong? He was quite. He was saying cumulus is cloud nine. Yeah, but cumulus is actually the lowest cloud in the sky. It's the big fluffy ones, the really big fluffy ones, but it's still the origin of the phrase cloud nine. He just got idea. It may be me that led him down the sort of path there. The garden path is cloud one and that's. That's the wispy, really feathery ones. But cloud nine, the big fluffy ones, is the lowest cloud in the sky. I love it. Qualifications? I was a seafarer for about 15 years and we used to have to report cloud types in our weather observations to my office every 6 hours, so we'd have book cloud types for observers. Beautifully done. Round of applause for Alex. It's three Alex's we've had on mystery hour today. It's quite bizarre. 1255 is the time we've done it. We finished. Can I go home? Oh, no. The talking birds. What birds that. What birds? What can learn words? What have they got? What other birds have not. Will's in Scarborough. Will. Question or answer? Answer. Go on, then. The next year that would match 2003 is 2020. Oh, hang on a minute. The other fellow said 2025. I don't know. I just looked at the calendar that's on my desk and it's got 2020 as the next day. That Wednesday is the first day of the year and that would match. So Wednesday is the 1 January. Yeah. And that was right in 2003. It was right in 2014. And that next year is 2020. 2000. 311 years to 2014. 2020 is 2020. A leap year? 2000 was a leap year and its multiples of four. So, yeah, there you go, then. That's why it's not 2020. Yeah, because it would only work until February 28. Your theory. And then on February, on March 1, it'd be skewed to be off kilter again, wouldn't it? No, the calendar on my desk. Yeah, but that's a leap year. In 2003 wasn't a leap year, so it can't possibly be the same calendar. But 2004 was a leap year. Eight was leap year. Twelve. Yeah, but if you cannot possibly argue that 20 twenty's calendar, which is a leap year, will be identical to 2000. Three's, which was not, because there's no February 29 on the 2003 calendar. Well, that's a good point. Thank you. The first day of the year was right, but now you're right, you see? So we're back to 2025. Okay, see. Thanks for playing, though. Cheers. Lovely, lovely ice cream parlor in Scarborough, mate. If you need to drown your sorrows, Richard's in Acton. Richard, what have you got? Right, it's. It's a. It's stewards inquiry. Let's take. Let's take this year 2017. Yeah. Right. I wish someone would. Yes. The 1 January was a Sunday. Yes. 1967. The 1 January was a Sunday. Yes. So was 1970. 819, 72. The 1 January was a Saturday. But because 1972 is a leap year. Yeah. The 1 March, which should have been a Tuesday, is a Wednesday. Of course. So for those sort of reasons, 2020 is not the correct answer. Because it's only correct for January and February. Exactly. That's what I just owned the bloke from Scarborough with. Carry on, 2025. Rinsed him 31. And I'm not looking this up on the end. I know. I can tell by your fluidity and fluency. Brilliant Renaissance man. You see? Yeah. Get in there. Careful. And so that's how it works. It's not definite eleven year cycles. No, because the leap year throws everything out. So the answer is definitely this year. 1967 and 2017 are exactly the same. So the answer is. Well, the answer is. It varies. The answer is for 2003. The calendar will be the same again in 20. 14. 20. 25. 20 31. Bingo. 2025. So we missed it in 2014, which I find personally hilarious. Yeah, so do I. Round of applause. Qualifications? Genius, obviously. Well done. Can I squeeze in Benin Worthing. Sheila Fogarty. Or would you? Ben in Worthington. Question or answer quickly. It's the answer to the jagged bits on the legs. It's actually synovial fluid build up. Older than you get in order to protect the front of your shin. On. This is on the shin. So it's got nothing to do with getting kicked there as a kid? No, no, no. Which I'm sure that would help, but nothing to do with that. Qualifications. I played rugby for twelve years and I'm absolutely riddled with him. Terrible phone line, but enough communication to win you this. Oh, happy days. That's it from me for another one. We'll be here tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC. We didn't do the talking birds. I'm not going to do this. Gaga focused. Oh, lord, that's terrible. I'll have you for that. Three this afternoon. What does the outrage over a white girl being fostered by Muslims tell us about ourselves? Could it be that color Trump's child welfare when it comes to things we'll get angry about? At 220 years ago today, the Princess of Wales died. I'll speak to people who knew her, worked with her or were consoled by her. But straight up after the news yesterday, if you were listening, you'll know I had a rare moment of speechlessness at the idea that kicking a pupil out of school halfway through their a levels because their grades aren't stellar was acceptable in some way. Turns out I was right. Because it turns out it's not only morally questionable, it's illegal. Should happen to those schools now on FM.