Ok let's stop on the duvet question - 7 Jan 16

On LBC, four minutes after twelve. Can you remember when the first mystery I was. It's lost in the mists of time now. It began by accident, this. It was. Someone rang in and asked the question and then lots of other people rang in with different answers. And then a week later I thought, well, let's do it again. And then suddenly it sort of snowballed and now we've been doing it for years, but no one can actually quite remember how it started. I wonder whether you can. The very, very first one. I only asked because I wonder whether or not it's time to mark an anniversary or something like that. What are you talking about, James? I shall tell you. If you're new to this program, we are talking about your week opportunity to get an answer to the sort of questions that have had you vexed, fuddled and possibly even mildly discombobulated for the longest time. What, why, where, when, who, whither, whence, possibly even wherefore. You fill in the rest of the sentence and I'll get you an answer. That's how it works. You're familiar, perhaps, with the newspaper columns and notes and queries where a reader will write in and say, why do we do that? What's the origin of this? When you see that, what's actually happening? When Tim Peake does x, why is. Yeah. Visible from Earth. La la la. And someone else listening to the program will know the answer and they too can dial zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call. If you hear somebody ask a question to which you know the answer, pile in. If you have a question you want to ask yourself, pile in. We had a question earlier in the week, didn't we? I said I was going to save it for mystery. I can't remember what it was. I bet you can, though. Five minutes after twelve. That's probably it. Is it? If you hear me say the number, it means I've got a phone line free. It gets busy. It's a busiest switchboard in town, this, but it's really, really busy on Thursdays from twelve. So if you hear me say the number, it means there's a phone line free. It also means, of course, that people listening newly, as it were, or for the first time, can get in touch as quickly as possible, rather than confining calls to people who've been here for years. The other rule is dullness. If your question's really boring, we won't let you on and the management's decision is final. Caroline and Victoria are very polite, but very, very flustered and hard working. They don't want to be wasting their time explaining to you why your question is pants. So if you sense a degree of reluctance from the women manning the phones producing the program today, then just. Just politely pack up and go home, will you? Ditto repetition. You can't help that. If you ask a question which we can remember answering relatively recently, you'll be politely invited to move along as well. Dullness. If you're wondering how you know whether your question is dull or not, you have to look yourself in the eye or in the mirror and ask yourself this. Is it likely that huge numbers of people are going to be just as interested in the answer to this question as I am? Is it likely that 44 million people, that's a potential audience of mystery out, 44 million people are going to be as interested in the answer to this question as I am? And if you answer yes, then ring it in. If you answer, well, possibly not. It's just, it's only really at the bottom of my garden that this problem seems to occur. Then it's. You see what I mean? You police see yourself. Alex is in Lewisham. Alex, question or answer? Good question, James. Carry on, Alex. I was in Guildford with my girlfriend, and we walked past some buildings and, you know, really old buildings. Buildings have really short doorways. And she asked me, do humans, are humans going to keep getting old, like, more and more tall as time goes on? Because obviously we've gotten taller. That's why doorways were smaller back in the 16th century or whatever. And I was wondering, suits of armor. You should see the suits of armor at the Tower of London. They're tiny little things. They look like they were bought from mothercare, some of them, yeah. So, I mean, do you know the answer? I mean, is this something we're gonna have to wait for, or do you yourself know it's to do with nutrition? Partly not. So it's nutrition and evolution. And I don't. I mean, evolution is not finite. Nutrition might be. My initial thought to her was that, you know, like, danish people, generally, Scandinavians are really, really tall, and we bred with them. But she was like, no, because the Vikings invaded back in whenever, and, you know, people were still short back in the 15th century, 16th century. So are we going to carry on getting taller? I don't whether or not there's an evolutionary advantage in it, I do not know. Someone might. So we're definitely getting taller over the years, over the generations. Will that process continue indefinitely? Is that's why you're asking exactly. I like it a lot. Is that typical of the sort of conversation you and your girlfriend have while you're wandering around Guildford all the time? Living the dream. What a time to be alive, Alex. Take minutes after twelve. Johnny is in Somerset, so there's two callers from Somerset today. We're going to have to start breaking it down by town. Can't just carry on doing the county. Johnny, question or answer? I got an answer for you, James, for a question that you posed earlier in the week. Actually. Go on, what was it? I think you're slightly guilty of asking a pants question yourself, actually. Back off, mate. It's my show, I make the rules. What's the difference between duvet and an eider down? Yes, but you remember why? No. Now, you see, coming here with your pants based accusations without knowing the full story, see? Clever, clever clogs. Now, before you answer the question, the reason was that staff at Windsor Castle were apparently being a bit sniffy about the introduction of duvets to the bedrooms, because they consider them, to coin a phrase, a bit common, Johnny. And they prefer eider downs. You see, they think that Eider Downs should be the only bedding of choice upon a royal bedstead. So I just didn't know what the difference was between an eider down and a duvet. Well, that answer kind of flies in the. That kind of flies in the face of my answer, really, with them being sniffy at things being called duvets. Go on. Bad to work. They called Duvale to do the gentrification of it. They're called eider downs originally because they were stuffed full of feathers from the Eider duck. Yes. Which is quite obvious, isn't it? Yes. Now, I think they changed their name. I think. See, I'm not qualified. It's just an opinion. I think that they were changed their name to duvets around the same time that cookery changed its name to nouveau cuisine. This is the worst answer ever. You come on to criticize the quality of my quest. All right, I'll be quiet. You carry on. Well, I've got the missing link, you see, which, which backed up this thing, links online for those, for those people like myself that didn't have such hipster affectations, we called them continental quilts. Now, do they being a french word, you know, I think that's about gentrification. So I think the people in Windsor Castle have got it all wrong. They're a quilt. They should be calling them, do they? An either down is a quilt filled with feathers. Yeah. I mean, a duvet is. A duvet's got, like, fiberglass in it or some man made stuff. Wow. You could still call it duvet. Yeah. Do you know what? I'm going to give you a round of applause because, in fact, an eider down is a type of duvet and so it's a bag of feathers. Right? Yeah. So what is the difference between an eider down and a duvet? Absolutely none, apart from the name. But then why Windsor? We can't. We can't be right and everyone at Windsor Castle wrong. Of course we can. I'm going to give you a round of applause. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I'm leaving the question now that you've reminded me what the question was. There was another one this week. Every single week, Johnny. At least two or three times, I think. Oh, I know, I'll save that for mystery hour. I've never remembered. I've never actually asked my own question on mystery hour in all the years we've been doing it. I've got a brain like a colander. Round of applause. There it is. It's real. First one of the year. Congratulations to you. Difference between a duvet and an eiderdown. And will we continue to grow as a species indefinitely? Humans are getting taller. It's the Black Prince and it's not. It's at the Tower of London. Have you seen it? The Black Prince's suit of armor at the Tower of London. I'd say it was a 34 short from my retail days. Tying in with the last hour a bit. Rami's in Manchester. Rami, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question, actually. Go on. Yeah, there's something we're discussing over the Christmas break, really? It's about prosecco and champagne and when you leave it opening, putting a spoon in there, for some reason, keeps the bubbles. Does it? Does it? Does it? Is that not an urban mythical. Well, see, I was having that argument as well, but it does seem to work. I mean, we had a few bottles of prosecco, at least, and one of them ended up staying overnight, but in the morning, you know, still fizzy. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, so does it? Because everyone's familiar with the idea. I don't know. I suppose Professor Hal might know the science, but it could be untrue. So we'll do it as a double headed question. Is it? Does it actually work? And if so, why? Yeah, yeah. Why is prosecco. Why has everyone gone nuts for Prosecco in the last twelve months? Ah, you know what? For me, it just tastes really nice. Yeah, but it's been around forever. I mean, Steve Allen is practically mainlining the stuff at the moment. I don't know. Nor do I. My mom told me that in Kidderminster they're going away from Prosecco. They think that now it's sort of being mass produced on such a grand scale, the flavour is sliding slightly. They might be going back to Carver twelve. You heard it here first. Alert the newsroom to that last nugget of information. Michael's in Vauxhall. Michael, question or answer? The answer to your eider down duvet conundrum. Yes. Is not what I've just been listening to. No, that was clear. It was absolute buncombe, that nonsense, coming from Somerset. Totally right. The reason an eye down is different to a duvet is because you do not use sheets with a duvet, but you do with an eidodon. Why? It's just the tradition, effectively. So they are exactly the same, then? Well, they are not used the same, which is the key. But this is. No, this is all going wrong again. So an eidodon is actually a duvet, but you just use it with sheets. So if I've got. So if I look, I've got a duvet at home. It's quite nice, actually. I got some egyptian cotton for Christmas and we don't use it with a sheet. So if I went home now and put a top sheet on the bed before misses O'Brien got home but left the duvet on top of it, would my duvet become an Ida down redescribe his name? Exactly. She's lost faith in your answer now, I can tell by that. Right. Chuckle you would have to explain what you've done. And you've probably been in big trouble, because I'm sure she preferred not to have sheets. Well, no one might be staying at Windsor Castle, for all you know. But literally, it's just the word. So if I put a sheet seat on my bed with a duvet on it, my duvet immediately becomes an eider down. Well, the duvet, when you picked it up from wherever the store was or online or whatever. The market. Yeah, whatever. Exactly. I'm not having it. There's got to be a more meaningful difference than whether or not there's a sheet underneath it. Anyway, good effort, but no. Round of applause. It's 1214. I could be wrong. Whenever I take the Mickey out, someone else's answer ten minutes later, I have to have a small sliver of humble pie and apologize. I don't think it's going to happen on that one. And can we get this nailed? Otherwise the whole of mischievous to be dedicated to bedding. Jane's in slough. Question or answer, Jane, answer to the duvet. Oh, no. Oh, no. Why have we allowed this to happen? Go on, Jane. We had blankets when I was a child with an eider down, which covered the bed. Yes. And you had that to cover the bed, to make the bed look nice. You then had an eider down. Is made of eider down. It's got goose feathers in it. Yes, but it was still covered. But that means it's a duvet, like a coverlet for the bed. A coverlet for the bed. It's still a duvet and then it's like a thick bedspread. Whereas now you have the duvet, so you don't have to have the Ida down. But if you choose to have the Ida down with a still filled with Ida, or whatever you want to fill it with, you can still have that on top of your duvet if you wish, but you don't have to use it as a duvet, a cover. Let to the bed. You're not feeling it? I'm not feeling it, Jane. Well, that's the changes that we went through when I was the difference between an eider down and a duvet. It has to be what it is, not what you do with it. What's the difference in terms of what it is, the eider down as a blanket duvet. You don't use it. You use it to make it look nice. You don't use it as a. To keep you warm. Why's it got feathers in it, then? I don't know either. I don't know. You're not expecting a round of applause for that, are you, madam? No. Just as well. It's 1215. This 20 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour is underway. A weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available on your average radio. Questions still in need of answers. Are we going to, as a species, continue to get taller? Dependent on nutrition, obviously, but is there an evolutionary imperative about that? And the old spoon in the prosecco overnight thing, does it work? And if so, why? And the difference between a duvet and Eiderdown, which, frankly, I wish we'd never started, but we will have to finish. Emma is in Nottingham. Emma, question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on. I wanted to know how they got the white for white paint what do you. What do you mean? Because it's a. It's. It's a color that's absorbed by every other color. So I don't understand where the base of the white chalk. Wouldn't it or something. Calcium carbonate base or something. Am I misunderstanding the question? Um. I just don't know how to get it into. It's like chalky stuff. Is it? But what chalky stuff? Can you imagine all the colors? The first. The first. The first introduction to white paint I can remember ties in with the conversation we had earlier this week about Pythagoras theorem. I'm going to test your commitment to this program, Emma, by seeing whether. Can you work out what the link is? He stamped on your foot. Oh, you were listening, but you've forgotten what he took. Well, give Emma, Emma a round of applause for that. That's a commitment. You get loyalty cards. Get loyalty cards. You get a free call. Do you remember what my maths teacher told me I might use Pythagoras theorem for later in life? Doing the white lines on rugby pictures. Give her another round of applause. This is listener of the year already, not even halfway through January. And that, I remember, that was like sort of liquid chalk. It was really chalky stuff mixed with sort of solvent. And then you just run it up and down. So I imagine there's lots of answers to the question, but you just get something that's white and solid, try and turn it into a liquid. Oh, well, maybe I've overlooked something. I think. Yeah, I might have misunderstood you, but I don't think I have. It's just because it just got absorbed by everything. So only in the spectrum of. No, only in the spectrum of light. It's. The white light is what you're referring to, not white things. Otherwise there'd be nothing white in the world. But I was thinking paint, because I was doing some crafts, and every time I make a new color, the white obviously gets absorbed by the carrier color. Yes, but that's because you're mixing it with other colors. So don't. And it stays white. But what's the carrier, then? Is the carrier. What do you mean, translucent? Yeah. It'd be like a solvent. It'd be a solvent of some sort. A translucent solvent. Yeah. That carries the color. I've got to be honest with you. I'm moving out of my field of expertise. I'm not entirely sure I was ever in it, but I'm going to go with a big, big fat yes on that. It's exactly that. You get something white and solid, and then you find a colourless solvent which can turn it into a paint. Boom. All right, well, should we share the applause on that? Because we worked out together. Okay, so now get 03:00 a.m.. I. The first to get three. First ever. Your first ever to get three. But you can remember what's gone on the show this week better than I can. So that's made my year. That's right. It's barely started, Emma. Fantastic. Bill's in Palmer's green. Come on, Bill. Okay, James. Sky digibots. We've all got one. Or most people have anyway. Other. Other television services are available. Actually, I don't have to say that today. I'm not at the BBC. Go on. Hundreds, but there. All cheaper than sky. Right. Fast forward or reverse to miss the ads and all that sort of stuff. It goes 3612. 36. Two sixes are twelve. But where does the 30 come in? What's the reasoning behind it? Units of three, isn't it? Well, no, because 312 36. Yeah, but ten three's a 34. Three's a twelve. Two three's a six. Two and a half times twelve is 30. What? No, units of three or units of three, mate, is 3612. 33. 612. 30. Yeah, but why 30? Why the jump? Ten threes. No, I don't get that. Ten trees, five sixes. Two and a half twelve. Why do you keep saying two and a half twelve? Well, two and a half twelve is 30. Yeah, but so is ten. Freeze. Well, should we start again? Yeah, all right. I bet Bill's in Palmer's green. Bill, question or answer? Uh, question. Go on, bill. Happy New year, by the way, mate. And you, sir. Thank you. Why are you such an odd. We'll be here all day answering that one. What's your real question? I just don't know why it jumps from twelve to 30, that's all. It's 3612 and 30. It just seems strange. Arbitrary. Yeah, arbitrary. Would you be happier with 24? I sense, and I could be wrong. You'd prefer 24? Yeah, of course, yeah. It's double. It'd be more symmetrical. Well, exactly. Right. I think 30 is probably about the fastest they could go, with you still being able to track visually what was happening or any faster than that, and it'd just be a pointless blur. And twelve? The difference between twelve and 30, just nowhere else in between. That difference was a significant enough increase on the twelve to make it worthwhile having an extra one in there. Yeah, I'm absolutely positive that you're right. Really? No. I was going to say, mate, if you were. I've got a car I'd like to sell you. I leave it. I'll leave it on the board. I don't know who's going to answer. I wonder if our friend Bob at Sky is listening. If he is, I don't know that he'll necessarily know the answer to that. Good one. Thank you, Bill. I don't know what the fast forward function is like on other boxes, other digiboxes, but if you know when you're fast forwarding visually rather than invisibly, as it were, you see it on the screen and he's right, it goes up in those increments there. Clive's in. Carlton. Clive, question or answer? Answer, James. Go on, then. Happy new year to you. Thank you to all your listeners worldwide. And here's my favorite program. Me, too. Every single day. Bless you. You're not gonna get applause just for that, mate. Even on a Saturday and Sunday. Good man. What? Yeah, it's an answer to this champagne. Why it's so fizzy when you put the spoon in it. Yeah, it's because it keeps it colder. I heard it on a food program. If you keep champagne in the fridge, it will stay fizzy anyway. Okay. But in days of old, when they didn't have fridges and stuff, you stuck a big metal spoon in it, it'd keep it colder so it would stay fresh, it would stay fizzy longer. So if you. Even if you put it in the fridge without a spoon, it will still stay fizzy. Do you want the good news or the bad news? This is my first time. I want a round of applause. Put your violin away and go. Do you want the good news or the bad news? Good news. Good news is, I think you might swerve it. Bad news is Professor Howe's on the other line with a challenge. But I've also got a challenge to the. No, no, no, no. Don't pick up your part, Clive. You're finished. Hang on. Stay there, though, mate, because professor. How Sozobosky, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and the patron saint of mystery, is here. I think I know what you were going to say, but Clive might have just given you pause. Hello, James. How are you? Very well. How happy New year. And to you I have confessor. I was jumping up and down like a six year old who wanted to go for a wee when we had the paint question. But anyway, we're not talking about paint, are we? No, not anymore. Okay, it's a mate. It's a myth. All right? The solubility of carbon dioxide is the solubility of carbon dioxide. And if you put a half open bottle of champagne or prosecco in the fridge and pour it the next day, it'll still be fizzy. Because, as your other caller has wisely said, if you lower temperature, solubility increases, so the colder it is, the more soluble it's going to be. So on a hot day, it'll get flatter quicker. On a cold day, it'll get flatter slower. So Clive was right about that. Yes, he was. But he also said that if you put a spoon in it when it's not in the fridge, it will have some beneficial effect. But why would putting a spoon in a bottle of champagne make it colder? I don't know, you're the professor of science. No, it was a rhetorical question because it won't make us whole. I know it was a rhetorical question, which is why it was so funny when I answered it. Yes, it was. It was very, very funny. The point is that it's. It's cause and effect thing. As you. As you would probably point out, it's a. People who eat ice cream, drown on the beach or something. People put a spoon in. It was fizzy. They said, okay, cause and effect, putting the spoon and made it fizzy. It didn't. It would have been fizzy anyway. And we've had this before and that's all I have to say. No, you've done it. Clive, mate. Yes, sir, you're right. Come on. I said about it being cold. What? I said it would stay cold. Yeah, but the spoon does nothing. No, if the spoon is cold, right, it will keep. It will keep it colder for a little longer. Okay, wait there. How can you hear him wriggling such a. Wriggle, wriggle, wriggle. How, in the spirit of 2016, are you going to share your round of applause with Wrigley Clive? Yes. You can have it. It's all yours. Wrigley Clive, this is for you. Thank you very, very much. Nice work. Well, it still needs us. I bet the paint one's going to come back to haunters as well. I've lost my notes about what other questions are still responses as well. Do we get. I'm such an amateur. You knew that already. Are we going to do. Are we going to get taller indefinitely as evolution continues? And I'll remind you of the other questions still in need of answers after this. It's 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. This is mystery hour, and questions still in need of an answer include these. We're going to kill off the duvet. Eider down question with Claire in Holloway, I hope. Fingers crossed, because I knew this would happen. It's that far in Somerset's fault. Honestly. Ruining. Ruining mystery. Asking a question that's struggling to answer. But no one's been. Everyone's been distracted by it. The difference between a duvet and an eiderdown that's on the way. Do not ring in about that. I'm putting all my money on Claire. It's not 36 12 30 on the skybox. It's 2612 30 the speed. You're quite right, actually. So my units of three. Answer was rubbish from the start. Why? Why those particular multiples when you're fast forwarding or rewinding on your skybox? And are we going to get taller as a species indefinitely? We need an evolutionary biologist, please. 034-56-0609 is the number you need. Claire's in Holloway. Claire, question or answer? It's an answer, I hope. So do I, after that introduction. Go on. Okay, so the difference between a duvet and an eiderdown is that duvets have a removable washable cover, whereas eiderdowns don't have a washable cover and they usually have to be dry cleaned. That's it, isn't it? I think so, yeah. So the eider down is a self contained piece of linen. Yep. With no removable parts. And therefore, if you're full of feathers. So if you stick it in the washing machine, it's ruin it. Yes. So that you don't sweat onto it. Well, you'll perspire. Perspire, Claire. Sorry? Perspire dry clean. You ride it down every week. Yeah. As you love it. And because the duvet's got a cover on it, you wash the COVID but you don't wash the duvet very often. Correct. Does that. Does that win? I think. Well, I'll level with you. It kind of has to because of what's been going on with the switchboard. But I think even if it didn't have to, it would have done. Jolly good. Let's see. Let's find out. There you go. I'm spinning the dial. Oh, yes. Oh, Claire. What a start to the year. Yeah. Thank you, James. Thank you. Happy days. 1237 is the time and Aaron is in Ealing with a question or an answer? Aaron. It's a question, James. Carry on, sir. I'm an avid viewer of. You've been framed. Yeah. And where this one's gonna go, they have a few where they have puppies on there and they might be about a week old. Yeah. And the puppy is eating from a plate on the floor or bowl on the floor. Yeah. And then their back legs tend to lift up sometimes and then they fall tail over head into the bowl of food. Yes. And I've never known why they would do that. Well, it's not just the same reason why toddlers fall over a lot. They're getting used to balance. But they have four legs. Yeah, but they're on two of them. They're leaning forward until the back legs go up. But when they start eating. Yeah. All four legs on the. Yeah, because they're eating the food near to them. Right. Imagine you're eating a sausage, a really long sausage. Aaron, can you do that for me? Don't close. You're not driving, are you? At the moment? No. No. Right, but the sausage. Have I. How much have you been listening this week? A couple of times. Only a couple. Not like Emma in Nottingham, who picked me up on everything I've said. Have I. Have I told the story about how I ate my Serrano ham over the Christmas period? I've got a horrible feeling I haven't done that story. It's an absolute killer. I don't want to spoil it, but imagine you're eating a sausage. But the sausage is not in your hand, Aaron. The sausage is in a clamp at one end. Okay, now start eating that sausage and tells me. Tell me what happens to your head. It moves towards the clamp. Thank you very much. So the puppy starts eating the food that's nearest to it. And then it carries on eating without realizing that it has to move its feet forward because it's a little baby puppy and it hasn't learned that lesson in life yet. So there you go. Balance toppled over. Lesson learned. Won't happen more than two or three times. Round of applause. Thank you very much. So we got this Serrano ham off Liddell, which was a lovely gift sent to the studio last December, last month. And we were saving it for Boxing Day. And you know what it's like. You've got a few jobs to do and I forgot I was supposed to get a stand for it. There's only about a tenner because otherwise it's almost impossible to cut. When I say we got a ham, I mean we got the whole leg of a pig, the whole shebang. And misses O'Brien, have you got the stand yet? I said, just stop asking me about the stand. I will get the stand. There is no way that our guests will arrive on Boxing Day and I will not have a stand for the Serrano ham. Boxing Day dawns and she's got that look on her face. You didn't get a stand for the Serrano ham, did you? I went, no. She goes, this is quite a big deal because that is supposed to be the centerpiece of our Boxing Day buffet. She didn't use the word buffet. But anyway, so I had a bit of a panic. What the hell am I going to do? My brother in law Liam said, you haven't got a black and decker work, mate, have you? I said, mate, you are a genius. Come here. You are a genius. So we went down to the cellar, we got out the black and decker work, mate, which has a sort of clamp, as you know. So our Serrano, how? I had to give it a bit of a wash because it would have made a right old mess of the Christmas table. A bit of a wash. Our Christmas was. The highlight of our Christmas was a little Serrano ham held in place on a black and decker work, mate, so I could carve it up like a matador. And that's where the sausage image a moment ago came from. So now you know Mohammed's in Belfast. Question or answer? Mohammed, is it? James, it's the day of the answer. Carry on, mate. Well, let's not jump the gun. Let's not. Let's not count our chickens. The skybox. The skybox, why? It goes up by those multiples. Those are all divisible by, like, you've got 60 seconds in a minute. So they're all divisible by that. So if you want to forward, let's say, five minutes, you would fast forward at times 30 for 10 seconds. I think you're probably right. His problem, though, was with the gap between twelve and 30. Why do we go all the way up to 30? Why do we go? Just because it's half a minute. So you can fast forward. That's. You can fast forward, like, let's say. As I say, like, why not 24? Why not. Why doesn't it go 26, 12, 24? Well, 24, 60 divided by 24 is. All right, 20, then 60 divided by 20, it's three times three. Well, you've just. You've just had one. That's twelve before and twelve is quite near to, like, twelve. Five times five times ten. So two times 36 times 1012 times five. So the only things that go up to the only things that. Shush. I'm trying to think. Hang on, shush. 30, then two, six. It's 535. 1210. 30. Ten, five. And then finally 230. Ten, five, two. It's quite a natural progression. Is that a fibonacci sequence, do you know? I have no idea. I just wanted to say the word. Mohammed. I'm going to give you a round of applause. It's linked to the number of seconds in a minute and the kind of natural gradation of these different speeds. Yeah, go on, then. Nice. How many is that? That's your first. That's my first. That's my first. But you are still, I think, the only caller whose call has made the newspapers just for being brilliant. I think you are, because normally it takes two to tango, but the one that got into the independent after you rang in was just all about you. Frankly. I was a bit. I won't lie to you, man. I was a bit peeved, I was a bit put out. It's my show. You were getting all the plausits that day. It's 1242. Peter is in Byfleet. Peter, question or answer? Got a question. It's about major Tim. I know you're a big fan of major Tim. He's doing good stuff, like, he likes space. He's in space now for. I think it's six months. Yeah. So it could be a general question about jurisdiction, but I'll stick to tax. Where does he pay taxes now? He's in space, so I guess he's still employed. But if, you know, if I was to work overseas, I could not pay my UK taxes. I'd pay it wherever I was. How does it work? If you're on succumbment to France for three months for a british company, you still pay? I don't know how that works, but wouldn't it just be the same? I think. I think you need to be more than six months out of the country. He's gone for six months, hasn't it? Yeah. So maybe. I like. I like that question. I like it a lot, actually. Because he either pays it to the host country or he pays it to space. Exactly. You mean you could ask it about crimes as well? If you commit a crime up there, that's like international waters. If you commit a crime up there, whose jurist? If you kill. If one astronaut kills it. Shush. Now, I've got an idea for a thriller. Keep it under your hat, Peter. Don't let anyone hear that conversation that we just had. Jay, it's almost certainly been done. Hasn't it? I know. Oh. Where does Tim Peak pay his taxes? To whom does Tim Peak pay his taxes while he's in space? Love it, love it, love it, love it. 1243. Thank you, Peter. Edward is in Finchley. Question or answer, Edward? I have a question. Carry on. My question is, when you have a map and where land meets, see, is the boundary drawn at high tide or low tide? Ooh, that's good. I'm thinking more of sort of big estuary, but areas where a huge expanse of sand emerges at low tide, because you would imagine that to impact upon a map, most maps are going to be, too. The scale isn't really going to reflect that, but some will, won't they? So is the sea at high tide or low tide when they draw the map? Yes. Yeah, love it. Great question. Why do you want to know? I thought it was quite an interesting question. Yeah, it is. It is quite an interesting question. I still want you to plan your weekend around whatever answer we get, because there's no guarantee it will be completely accurate. It's coming up to quarter to one. So on a map, is the sea high tide or low tide? I like that a lot. Where is Tim Peake, the astronaut, paying his taxes while he's in space? I did the puppy, we've done the skybox. And are we going to carry on getting taller indefinitely as a species? Zero three. Four. Five. Six. Zero six. Zero nine. Seven. Three. Twelve. Forty nine is the time cracking tale from. It must be herefordshire, mustn't it? There's asparagus sprouting already. Unbelievable. Because of the mild December. Because December was the wettest and warmest on record, or since records began in 1910. The asparagus is coming up already. I love the little things like that. Also quite like asparagus. Back to mystery. Peter is in Staplehurst. Question or answer, Peter? Answer, James. Carry on. Peter the spaceman. Where he gets. Where he pays his tax is where he is paid. So if he's paid in the UK, pays it direct from his saddest UK. He's clearly not paid by an alien spaceship somewhere or another planet. Therefore he wouldn't pay tax there. If somebody was on a cruise liner working for a UK holiday company, but working on a cruise liner, he wouldn't pay taxes in all the different countries that he's going around to, he pays it to the UK because that's where it gets, where his base is. His home base, as it were. Yeah. It's a very boring answer, isn't it? Sorry, mate. No. Are you getting a round of applause. What if he murdered someone? There you go. That'll sex it up a bit. What if he murdered someone? I would say probably the country he was arrested. I don't know. Would they kill someone in space who prosecutes? You know, no one can hear you scream. Sorry. God, that was awful. Round of applause for Peter. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Cross that one off. Rob's in. I'll come off it. Traorkee. Is it Rob? It is, yeah. Did I pronounce it right? Yeah, you did. Do you know why? I've got a welsh producer. She probably spelt it phonetically. Trajorki in south Wales. Question or answer, Robin? Answer, I believe. Carry on. Okay. The. The midpoint and. Sorry, the high. High tide. Low tide question. Yes. So the trouble we got is that the high tide isn't always the same high tide. It depends on what time of year it is. You're absolutely right. It's right. Yeah. My local pub can disappear underwater on it, but not. Not on a. Not on a tidal basis. Not every time. No. That's right. And also the low tide can go far further out at certain times of year. So what they do is they take the average midpoint of the tide over the year to work out who owns the land. Now, above the midpoint is owned by whoever owns the land council or some duchy of Cornwall below there, then comes under maritime law. I do a lot of metal detecting on beaches and if anything of importance is found above the midpoint, we got to report it to the owner. And below the midpoint is reported to the maritime law. So I'm sure that it's going to be. That's how they work it out for the maps as well as him. Absolutely. Beautiful answer. I don't know. I don't know for certain that it's right, but that is a answer of beauty. You're going to get a round of applause either way. What sort of stuff do you find when you're metal detecting? What are your favorite discoveries? To be honest, you are on the beach. I don't particularly like detecting the beach because it is normally just modern day lost. We are asked to go and find keys and purses and, yes, wedding rings, engagement rings. But you're not. You're not looking for. You're not treasure hunting when you're down there. My treasure hunters. Then on basically our farmland, where we find a lot of celtic. Celtic stuff or roman. What's your biggest result? What's your favorite find? I was detecting on a field boundary, a church in Garway, up in Hereford and some an old medieval Templar church, a knight's Templar church. And I found a 12th century silver ring with a Templar symbol on it. It was beautiful. First ring I'd ever found. And I see an airford museum now that is. Is it really? Yes. In air force museum. That's just one of. That's one of many. Many. Lovely. I'm so glad you read. Can we give Rob two rounds of applause, one for his answer and one for his brilliant metal detecting anecdote? One. There you go, Rob. Mind how you go. And we're not giving double rounds of applause to everybody whilst just because the new producer hails from that principality. Gary is in Chemsworth. Gary, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Firstly, don't get me too hard on me, James. Oh, mate. That means it's rubbish. That means that you're amazed you've got on and you already know your question's rubbish. No, it's great. If the queen. If the queen gets to 100, does she get a telegram? And if so, who sends it through? Nor can you be honest with me. Can you believe you got on with that? No. Why would anybody send her. I don't think they get a telegram anymore. They get something else, don't they? But why would anybody send her one? She's a hundred. She's gonna get about a million birthday cards. No, the question is about a telegram. Yeah. Who's gonna. If you're 100, you get a telegram off the queen. Correct? Yeah. So what's the queen? What, you can't. She can't send herself one, can she? Exactly. So nobody sends her a telegram. It's a stupid question. It's the worst question ever. That isn't. It is. All right. What's worse than that? Well, I've just got off night, so I've just woken up, so it's a great question. She's woozy. You're not having that. We've got Wrigley, Clive and woozy. Gary, nobody sends her a telegram if she reaches the age of 100, because she is the queen. She's the. The person that sends it. You don't know that. I do. Round of applause for me. Thank you very much. Have a good day. Gary. Mind. There you go. 1255. Lawrence is in Stanmore. Question or answer? Lawrence. It's an answer. Yes, I'm debunking the fact, or the supposed fact that people are getting bigger. They're not getting taller. Shut the front door. Yeah, they are. They're not getting taller. No, he wasn't? Yes, he was built like Jimmy cranky. Oh, what do you mean? Oh come on. Have you seen suits of armor? Suits of armor are tiny. Yeah, I've seen them. Yeah, well some people are bigger and some people are smaller. I mean people within, within, I mean there are. People are getting slightly taller because of increase, better nutrition. I understand that. You're putting me in a very difficult position. Listen, listen, just hang on a second. People go into a cottage, they see the rooms very small. It's because they're much easier to heat. In the old days they didn't have central heating and the houses were smaller and the rooms were much smaller. The average human height. The average human height has gone up in industrialized countries from the UK to the United States to Japan by an average of about 10 cm in the last 150 years. Ten? Yes, that's because of better nutrition. That's only about two inches. So are we going to carry on getting taller? No, no we won't. Young Dutchmen are 19 centimetres taller than their mid 19th century counterparts. So how do you know we've reached our maximum? Well, because, because with evolution you have to be. To evolve, you have to be under some sort of pressure. How do you know we've reached our maximum? Why can't better nutrition? Nutrition is getting better all the time. We're gonna get taller and taller and taller. Two words for you my friend Peter Kraut. All you do is you get fatter, that's all. You don't get taller. Speak for yourself, Lawrence. 19 cm in Holland. How much? 19 cm in 150 years. 19 cm in 150 years. There's an echo in it, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, not true. It's only nutrition, it's only this. Not, definitely not evolution. There's no advantage to be taller. Yeah there is. You can reach the nutritious food on the top shelves of the supermarket. Don't you get dismissive with me, sir. I'm telling you it's not true. There's no pressure for us to get taller. There's no advantage, absolutely no advantage for a human being to be any taller than. I think you're right. I think you're right, but I don't know why you're getting your confidence that we've peaked over the ten, over 10,000 years. If it was true that people were getting taller every generation, we would be over 1013ft high by now. It's a very incremental rise, isn't it? I think you might be right, but you cannot conclude with confidence that we have reached our maximum height, that we will fail to get any tall. Can you really? Well, the mean height. I mean. What do you mean by individuals? I'm exactly the same height as my father. Right. Well, that proves it. That proves it. No, that's it. That's it. No, that clinches it. That clinches it. You're the same size as your dad. There's no. There's no. You're right. I'm sorry. I'm sorry for finding any fault at all in anything else you've said. I'm telling you, this is not James Lawrence. People have not got any, Paula, other than as a result of better nutrition. But if he needs better nutrition, how do you know it's peaked? Well, because. What do you mean, it's peaked? Well, it's better. Nutrition has made us get taller and we still have. We've got better nutrition than we did 200 years ago so we could carry on getting taller. Nutrition on one generation doesn't affect the subsequent generations. Yeah, it does. How can it? How can it? How can. If I have. We're out of time, Lawrence. We're out of time. Yeah, well, I'm sorry. No, I'm sorry as well. You have a round of applause. That should make it easier. Thank you very. I think you did earn it, especially with my barracking and rudeness. That's it from another week. We'll be doing it all again tomorrow from ten on. LBC Mystery are back next Thursday. I'm James O'Brien, this is LBC. Here is Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James.