Can bees get lost?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time, and rarely has the soothing balm of mystery felt so welcome. If you know how it works, book your place now on zero 345-606-0973 if you don't know how it works, bear with and I will explain. It's not complicated, but it is ordinarily quite a lot of fun. You will have bubbling away in the back of your brain a question in need of an answer. It could be something, something about origin. You know, why do we do that? Where does that come from? When we say that, what does it mean? Who a why, a where a what a when, a wherefore. Even the occasional whither or whence, and you can ring in with it and someone else listening will know the answer and they ring in with that. That's pretty much it. But obviously I need to slightly expand upon that simplistic explanation so that you understand the reasons why you shouldn't ring in. Never be boring. Generally we don't like questions about roads, motoring related stuff. Repetition is best avoided, but I can't really hold you responsible for that because there's ten times more people listening than there was when we started, and that's pretty much it. Don't look stuff up. So if you hear someone ask a question, you think, well, I could google that. You're missing the whole point of mystery out. The whole point of mystery hour is knowledge. The stuff what? You know, the stuff that you. For reasons that could involve having seen it on telly last night or having done a PhD on it in the 1950s, I still think, even though by the time my children are my age, they're probably not going to need to know anything. Do you remember when we used to get aerated? Is that the right word? I was just say excited. When we used to get excited about taking calculators into maths exams, when I started here, that was a topic, oh, should kids be able to take calculators into maths exams? You sort of still see why it is a debate. But given the proliferation now of information, the very concept of knowledge in the old fashioned sense is being completely diluted. This is a little a lighthearted stand against that slow process where we still celebrate the fact that people know stuff. And that's why you're not allowed to look stuff up, either online or in encyclopedias. If you've read a book and remember the answer that it contained, that's allowed. But you're not allowed to go and check the book now and ring in with the answer. I didn't mean. Is there anything else? We've had some good ones recently. I wasn't here last week, so I'm fresh. Back to mystery hour. The number you need remains the same. I'll only give it out if I've got phone lines free. I used to say that this is the busiest hour of the week, but these days, to be honest, every hour is absolutely bonkers. It does mean though, that judicious use of redial is rewarded. And can we can stop using that phone line now to phone all the trolls who say that they're not allowed on. Then we ring them up to ask them. Come on. And it goes straight to voicemail. So we've got that phone line back now. Cowards. And that means that if I say the number, it means there is a phone line free six minutes after twelve. Should we crack on? Yeah. Have I missed anything? This is Axel's last ever mystery. He's moving on to pastures new. I'll probably forget tomorrow. You're here tomorrow, aren't you? Do you want your tribute tomorrow, Axel? Yeah, all right. Okay. I'll tell the story about the Olympics, you know, all that stuff. Yeah. You ready for that? Make sure your mum's listening. Let's start with Jack. Who's in woking? Jack, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Carry on. I just want to say, Axel, I love Beverly Hills cop. I bet he's never heard that before. Go on. I just wanted to know, really. Might be simple pandas. Why are they black and white? Ones in the woods are brown. Over in Canada and stuff. Polar bears are white. Just wondering why pandas are like that. Obviously they were graced with a bad crop, as it were. It's a good question, I think. I don't think they've got any predators. No. So they don't need camouflage. Yeah, but why do you? I mean, any animal was evolved to where it is. No, I know, I know. Just wanted to know, really. I like it. I like it a lot. You're on. Why is a panda black and white? Oh, you mean a classic panda? Yeah, that's it. Yeah, definitely. You're on. All right, let's see if we can get an answer. I like that. I love that question. That's a pure mystery out question. I hope it's got an interesting answer. Mark's in Sunbury on tens. Mark, what would you like to say? Hello, James, how are you? Very well. What a lovely voice you've got, Mark. Thank you. Dulcet tones. You've ever done any voiceover work? I do, actually, yes. You are joking. No, I'm not. Well, there you go. Question or answer? What's the question? Where does the phrase getting off scot free come from? Ah, no, I've not got it. I like it. Yeah. And we're only allowed one of these a week origins of phrases, in case people listening for the first time go, oh, I want to know where that other phrase, harem scare me. So we're only allowed one phrase origin a week. I got off scot free. Must have something to do with Scotland, wasn't it? Well, I don't know. Should we be saying that in this present climate, for people who don't know, it means that you got away with it, doesn't it? You don't have. There's no justice. A bit like David Davis getting off scot free. Weapons grade incompetence. Will we be familiar with any of your work? I used to be one of the continuity announcers on ITV a number of years. I've got to get into a bit of voice over work, but I've been here nearly 15 years and no one's ever approached me, so I suspect that I'm not cut out for it. I don't know. I think you've got something. You're very polite. Liar. Nine minutes after twelve is the time, the origin of the phrase scot free. And this is no ordinary phone. It. This is a James O'Brien on LBC phone. It'd be about ten grand. Nathan is in Wookiee hole in Somerset. Hello, Nathan. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, mate. It's pronounced Wookiee hole. Wookiee hole, isn't it? Wookiee hole, yeah. They've written wokey hole on the screen. You see what I have to put up. Wokey hole. Two o's. Two o's in Wookiee. Everyone knows that. Come on. Question or answer? I need to know if there's science behind boiling eggs. And when you've boiled an egg, sometimes you peel it and there's a sort of skin membrane inside that comes away and you have a perfectly peeled egg. Yes. And other times it sticks and you pick the shell away and it takes you about half an hour and you pick half your egg away and it's incredibly frustrating. Yes. And I need to know whether it's something to do with temperature. Nope. Or the length of time you cook it or something like that. It's about freshness. Hmm. Okay, well, I've got chickens and I get their eggs every day and I have two boiled eggs every day and I've tried loads of different methods. Heating them, then leaving them to cool in the water, putting them straight into cold water. So it's not about freshness, then? I don't think so. I thought. I thought that the. The air pocket. Well, obviously, I mean, it might be about freshness, but I'm not going to get away with telling you that it is. We'll have to hear from someone who's a little bit more qualified than you are. But, you know, when you. Do you ever poach them? Yes. Now, the fresher they are, the better they poach. Right. Yes. So I thought it might link to that. It might. Well, it might be, but it doesn't help with the. I've been. I've been needing to know this for about three months. You've come to the right place. You've come to the right place. How long have you had chickens? A year. Look after them, won't you, mate? You know. You know how long you've been listening to the program? A couple of years, yeah. So you don't know what happened to my chickens? No. Fox, cherry and ginger. Have you named your chicken? My four year old son has. That's dangerous, mate. I know it's too late to go back now, but I wish I'd never named ours because then there would have just been egg manufacturing units. But they had names and when we lost them. It hurts. Still hurts, actually. I still sit in the bit of the garden where the chickens used to go and sometimes on the quiet evening, I think I can hear them cluck. It's good. Good to know. I should get you an answer to that question. Hopefully. I might write a little poem in the next. Commercial break. Jen's in Bristol. Jen, question or answer? Question. Carry on. I know that baby boy's clothes used to be pink back in the day. It was a victorian thing, I think. All to do with Richard the Lion heart and, you know, a baby version of red. Oh, yeah. Why did it switch to girls now wearing pink and. I don't know, I've googled it because I had a little boy. Yeah. Why do boys wear blue? And I learned that boys used to wear pink. I don't know why it swapped. Yeah, I like it. Victorians probably had something to do with it, didn't they? Availability of dark. I'm just going to say things and you're just going to say, I don't know. So we'll just crack on, shall we? Exactly. Find out for me, James, I will do my best. When did boys stop wearing pink? Go. 345-60-6097 don't ring in to say, I'm currently wearing pink and I'm a boy. Doesn't suit me. Pink. My lucky shirt used to be pink, but it makes my complexion look a little bit gammony. Phil's in Teignmouth in Devon. Phil. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. I wanted to know why we click graphics. I know this. Do you? Yeah. Go on, then. I mean, it's not definite. Well, it is definitive because I'm in charge and I'm going to give myself round of applause because I'm feeling lonely. But the. My favorite explanation. There are one or two, but my favorite explanation is that you, when you clink glasses, a bit of your drink goes into my drink and a bit of my drink goes into your drink, which means we're not trying to poison each other. Oh, get lost. Do we actually fill our glasses up that much? We did then, mate. Yes. It was a flipping teeming tankard of mead. That is the thing. My twelve year old told me. It sounds like a reasonable answer. It's not. Not just a reasonable answer, it's the best available answer. Right, okay. Although, actually, I think it might be an urban myth. Right. So I'll leave it. I'll leave it on the board. Thanks, James. All right. Why do we clink glasses? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I still think I'm right on that. We will find out. Gavin's in Stansted. Gavin. Question or answer? All right, James? Hello, mate. Nice to have you back, man. Likewise. Cheers. You haven't been anywhere. Go on. Right, I've got a question, technical question. Go on. An airplane. Yeah. Why is the propeller called propeller? When it sucks and it doesn't blow, why would it. It propels the plane. It should be an impeller. Because it sucks air, doesn't. It? Pulls the. Yeah, but you're. You're. No, you're looking through the wrong end of the telescope, mate. All right, go on. It's. You're looking at what the propeller does to the air rather than what it does to the plane. Yeah. It still impels it backwards. It doesn't propel it backwards, it propels the plane forwards. Yeah. So it's a propeller, but it works by impelling. Yeah. Which is what it does to the air. Propeller propels it. Yeah. You've won that one. Boom. There we go. It's like a Brexit phone in it. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Teignmouth. Not Teignmouth. My apologies. I didn't know. Been there as well. Pronounced it wrong. Just clearing that up. If you're just tuning in, I haven't got the time or the energy to explain exactly what it is I'm correcting. I need answers to these questions. Why are pandas black and white? Think about it. It's a great question. What's the origin of the phrase scot free? Why, when you boil an egg, do some of them peel? Really sounded like arc, right? They don't have open all hours. Some of them peel really easily. Actually, no, I sounded like the old cinema adverts for Pearl and pa pa pa pa pa pa pa pa pa. Why do some eggs peel really easily and other eggs don't? When did boys stop wearing pink? As a kind of tradition, you know, as a thing? Why do people clink glasses together when they are having a drink? A small sherry, for example. And there is some dispute over propeller, which I'm prepared to tolerate just on this one occasion. And I'm sorry to everyone else who's lost chickens, apparently, that was a bit of. A. Bit of a traumatic exchange that we had. I feel your pain. Adriana is in Walton on Thames. Adriana, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's about the eggs. Oh, yes. Are you an expert? I'm so sorry. I'm so, so sorry. That just happened. No, dear, that's even worse. God. Right. The egg shell is porous. When the egg is fresh, the inside is against the shell, but through time, air gets in through the shell. Yes. And so pushes the egg a little bit more to the inside so it's easier. Easier to peel. Well, that's what I thought. But the caller. I did think that. But the caller keeps chicken. He keeps chickens and he claimed that he will get two fresh, fresh eggs on the same day and boil them both and they will peel differently. Well, I don't know. I don't know. But the reason you thought it, because the answer is from a previous question you had. I thought that as well, Patriana. Well, I'm going to give you the round of applause, even though by rights it should be mine. I'm feeling very generous today. Oh, hang on. What your qualifications are. You heard it on mystery out before I heard it on mystery out. Yeah, that'll do. Go on. Thank you. That is the reason. It is. It's about the thing of me, the sack inside the egg and the porousness of it and the amount of air that seeps out or in. But I don't know, I didn't like it. Great work, Adriana. Ash is in. Team. Question or answer? Ash. Question, please carry on. Do animals have moles on their skin? Why do you want to know that? Because I was giving my dog a bath yesterday and I found a mark which turned out to be a tick. First one I've ever come across. Oh, dear. Be careful. I thought, how do I know if it's a mole or something more sinister? Yes. So I wondered, do they have moles or blemishes or anything of that sort? I thought, it's quite a nice question, actually. I'd say it's turned into a bit of a serious phone in this. It's a bit kind of like vets hour or something. But I still like the question, I do. Moles. And ultimately we need to know whether moles have moles. I guess so, yeah. That would be the ultimate question, wouldn't it? So do. And. But what is a mole? I don't know. Is it like a weapons grade freckle? I guess so. It's just. It's a mark, isn't it? I don't know much. Collection of melanoma. What's it called? Melanoma. Melanin. Melanin. Melanin. A concentration of melanin. Yeah. All right, you're on. I'll do what I can. The dog's all right. Look out for those ticks, though, ash. Yes, I will be. Seriously, little beggars. Lawrence is in Derby. Lawrence, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on. I've recently had a baby boy and. Congratulations. Myself, my wife and my daughter are all susceptible to hay fever. Oh, yes, fever. And if not, at what point are you susceptible to hay fever? You can. I know this because one of mine got it. So you can get hay fever as a baby. It doesn't always kick in, does it? Some people get hay fever for the first time quite late in life. Well, I got it for the first time last year. There you go. So, yeah, that's what made me wonder. I mean, it is just true. I know it's true because we checked ourselves when one of us started sneezing. Has he got runny eyes? Does he look like he's got any bother? No, that's fine and done. No, it doesn't affect him at all. Fair enough. Are you a county fan, Lawrence? I'm actually a Malcolm fan. Oh, fair enough. I won't ask you then I'll let that pass round. Applause for me, please. Thank you very much. You know, I actually put my arms in the air then. That's pathetic, isn't it? Martin is in Bexley Heath. Martin, question or answer? Answer. Hello. Scott free. Yeah, well, back in the day when the Daily Express had a library, I used to work on the counter. I remember that library. Did we? I may have served you. I mean, we wouldn't have known, would we? Back then I was. I used to wear braces. I looked like such a clown. Yes, go on then. So this was for people who don't know, this was when. Because pre computer, you'd cut out every day, you'd go through every paper and put it all and file it all away. Go on, that's it. And say, someone come to the counter one day, they wanted to know the origin of that term, so I had to go and grab brewers phrase and fable, looked it up. Scot free means tax free. Do we know why? Oh, I can't remember that. I do remember the tax free bit. I think that the norse word for payment was Scott. So it comes from the norse Scott. Sk o t. Scot free. No Scott. No Scott on it. And it has evolved from there just to mean getting away with it. I always thought it meant something to do with Scott of the Antarctic, something like that. I thought it would be Scotland, a Scotland Yard or something like that. But no, not at all. That's very simple as that. Yeah. Nice work. When did you leave the express? I'm still there. Are you really still there? Yeah, on imaging department. Well, we must have. We must have crossed paths. And when did the library shut? About 19. No, the library carried on till about two or three years ago. Only in a very, very skeletal form. Did it really? Yeah. And is that. Have you noticed the new owners yet? Have they made their presence felt or is everything carrying on as normal? It's normal at the moment, yeah. You know, I haven't really noticed anything. No doubt there. I mean, we got new editor on the Star. New editor on the Express. Yeah. And, you know, it seems. I mean, the bit I do, it doesn't really. I don't really have any influence on the paper. I just do what I'm told, basically, on the imaging for the pictures and that. Very wise, you know, very wise. Is Christian Kanovich still on the picture there? No, no, he left a long time ago. Did he? Oh, well, it's nice catching up with you, Martin. Mind. There you go, 25 cheers round applause for me on the. No. Who for? What? No. For him. Round of applause for him. Him. Give it to Martin. Sorry, mate, getting all nostalgic. Then 25 minutes after twelve is the time Ronnie's in Elton. Ronnie. Question or answer? It's an answer. Well I'm clarifying your answer regarding the wine clinking together of wine glass. I withdrew that answer. Yeah. What one? I withdrew my answer about poison. Oh no, it's right. It's not. It's an urban myth. It's an urban myth, mate. No, well it come up in this conversation, yeah. With my, my instructor or trainer, as per state trainer, and he said it's the same and basically it finishes off. But there's two ways to look at. You can either clink them together because the pirates, because when they used to go and get their loot, they'd have a drink and to celebrate without people, without them sort of trying to kill each other to nick their loot. Yeah. They would have a drink and they'd clink their glasses together to show that they haven't tried to poison each other to nick the other person's loot. I mean, the problem is that this is what urban myths are. They're things that lots and lots of people believe that turn out not to be true. But if it comes from someone else, you can't say I'm a wine expert. No, it's not. It's on snopes. I remember it from. From last time. It's been checked out and been fact checked and it's just not true. No. Yes, I'd like to send in the. The other one was that. It's the noise that you make when you clink glasses. Scares away evil. No. Scares away evil spirits. That was the other claim. But nobody really knows why. It's, um. Why it's become a thing. I've been asked. I've been asked a round of applause for years. Oh, my. Don't, don't. Don't play. Don't come it with the sob stories. All right. They're not having it. I'm not. Would you like to recommend a cheeky tipple for the summer, Ronnie? Oh, for me, it's a highly oak Chardonnay. Really? Are they coming back again then? Yeah, massive. Well, you get a lot of people with what they call. We call them abcs. Anything but Chardonnay. That's right, yeah. The industry was awash with really bad, cheap Chardonnay. Nice highly oak, sort of southern regional French. No, I like it. I like it. If you ever. If you ever find. If you ever find yourself in Herne Hill. Pop into a wine shop called Wild and Lee's. All right, have a chat. Have a chat with mine host in there. He's one of my favorite people on the planet. Mike is in. Well played, Ronnie. Mike's in high. Where can question or answer Mike? It's a stewards inquiry. James, bring it up. Come on. I'm just going to flex my muscles. Clinking glasses. Yes. Now I saw this on some history channel Tony Robinson style program. It all goes back to medieval times when people used to feud with their neighbors. When they finally got over their feud, they obviously had a sit down for a meal and a drink and they would be drinking their mead or whatever out of their putic tankards and they would cling them together with such force that the mead would share over into your neighbor's glass to prove that you weren't there to poison. No. How have you got through? That's an urban myth. Your producer just let me. I know, obviously I know how you got through, but I'm teasing my producer on this one. It's an urban myth, Michael. I'm unsure. Well, it doesn't matter. That's what urban myths are. People believe it's like if you swallow chewing gum, it gets stuck to your heart and you'll be dead by tea time. Tony Robinson. Well, don't, don't bring him into it, all right? Because it's not. He's not here to defend himself. It's not true. It's a beautiful answer. That's the. That's the thing about urban, miss, is that you want them to be true. It's a beaut. But the last fellow was talking about pirates and now you're talking about vikings. Not vikings, medievals. Post Viking. No, it's not the medievals and it's not the vikings and it's not the. What's the other one? Was last fella to the pirates. It's not. You're not having it. None of you. I'm gonna cross it off. No, I'm not having it. I don't think anyone knows. Nobody knows. Don't need to know. It's not in the curriculum. Can't believe everything you see on the telly. 29 minutes after twelve is the time I apologize to my East Midlands listeners. When I asked the caller from Derby if he supported county, I was of course referring to Derby county, in which case I should have said the Rams because in that part of the world, county usually is taken to refer to Notts county as opposed to Derby county. Despite the fact that Derby county is of course, known as Derby County. I can't remember who their new manager is. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery areas upon us. Questions that still need answers. How come pandas are black and white? Think about it. It's a great question. I don't know. When did boys stop wearing pink? As a matter of tradition. And do moles have moles? That's not quite what the question was. Do. Do other mammals other than humans have moles? Moles as in mold? Paul's in Guilford. Paul, question or answer? James, carry on, mate. Right. It's the boys in blue. Oh, yes. Simple answer or quick answer is prior to the mid late 19th century, there were no blue dyes. That's what I thought it might be. Yeah. Yeah. Basically the german chemical industry had a bit big sort of period invention of different dyes and they became affordable and it could probably just fashion. Fashion. And. But do we know? I mean, but, yeah. So someone just decided that boys would probably a member of the royal family or something like that, and then everybody else copied. So pink was always about, you can make. What's pink usually? Beetroot or something, is it? Various things, yeah, but I mean, also the colors that took the world by storm, military uniforms, that sort of thing. I'm speculating here, but nothing wrong with a bit of speculation. Paul, for qualifications, where did you pick up this nugget? It was actually tv program back in the seventies. I've still got the book from the series, what was it called? Connections by a guy called James Burke. I'll do nicely. Round of applause for Paul, please. Kevin is in Hartford. Question or answer? Kevin? Yeah, hi. Question about bees. Bees typically fly in a straight line, do they? Yeah, they do, yeah. I mean, the bees in the hive will do a little dance and it will show the distance and direction to the food source, and then off they fly. And then they fly in a directly straight line back. I saw a documentary a while ago where they moved to the hives a couple of meters and the bees got confused. So what I'm wondering is if a bee flew into my car and I drove 10 miles and the bee flew out again, would it get lost? I like that. Do bees get lost? Yeah. Do bees get lost? It's a nice question. What do you think? I think they would probably fly the same vector and end up 10 miles away from where they needed to be. Oh, controversial. Come on, they've got to have some form of homing instinct, haven't they? I don't know. I know they. I know they fly in direct lines, which is why they sometimes fly into you, because they don't really look where they're going. They just know instinctively. And we're talking about. Hi. But we talk about honeybees. Yeah, yeah, yeah. From a hive. Yeah. I read an amazing book about bees. I mean, are you generally interested in bees or not? There's a. I can't remember what it was called. It was a novel. It was. It was a novel about a bee. Right, okay, don't laugh. Not to be relied on, is it? No, it was relied and it was properly, like, you know, entomologically accurate. Right. Have you got it there? No, I'm just trying to remember it. And it's not. Nothing's happening. I'll leave it on the board. Do bees get lost? Zero. 345-606-0973 why? Panda's black and white. Done that one. Done that one. And do other animals get moles? Have I missed any out? What? Bees, moles and pandas. Okay. Andy's in Wells in Somerset. That's the second call from Somerset today. We are spreading. Our influence is spreading. Question or answer, Andy? It's a stewards inquiry. Oh, Lord above. What? On which one? I know. On the eggs. Oh. Adriana was adamant and her answer. I hear that a lot. I hear that a lot. I do. Yeah. Because with the egg thing, if you watch a program. The food program. Yeah. With Jamie Oliver's mate on it, the pig farmer. I can't remember his name. Jimmy. Jimmy, yeah. Anyway, so they were doing that wonderful program about four or five months ago, and they went to an egg factory where they were making scotch eggs or whatever. Oh, yeah. So they're dealing with thousands of eggs a minute. I like a scotch egg. I do, too. I do. And they were. They were obviously. They're pushing through thousands of eggs an hour. Yeah. And one of the questions that came up was, how do you know when to peel the egg? You know, when do you actually peel the egg to put it into the scotch egg? Because you need a perfect peel for a scotch egg. You need a perfect peel. Exactly. And it was all down to timing. Go on. Like the secret of good comedy, which is timing. Stop it. Well, tell me more. I mean, what? So, in fact, our questioner is peeling his eggs at different times. Yeah. So there's a specific time. They. They don't plunge them into cold water or anything. They leave them for a specific amount of time to cool down, which is the optimum time to peel. An egg, whether it's five days old, one day old or two days old. And that was on telly. That is a strong answer. And, yeah. So when the questioner is peeling his eggs and getting an unpleasant peel, an unsatisfying peel, he's peeled them too soon or too late. Oh, Lord. So there's actually a sweet spot. I can't remember the time. It might have been 4.5 minutes. I don't know. Okay. But it's. It's out there. That'll do. You're on. Round of applause for Andy. Good work. 1239 is the time. Lee is in Thessaloniki. Alethea, actually, near Thessaloniki. Lee Tikani. I don't know. I don't know how to say question or answer in Greek, sadly. So we'll have to revert to English now. Anyway, carry on. Right. It's my wife, because she's been listening now. She's greek and she says you're not allowed to argue. Yeah. She says that the Greeks with the clink in the glasses. Sorry, I didn't mention. That. Comes from the ancient Greeks. You said that when they were drinking wine, it was about not leaving any of the senses feeling left out. So with the wine, you had to smell. You had the taste, how it felt and everything else, but you wanted to hear it as well. You couldn't leave hearing out. So that was the one sense that had to be excited when you were drinking the wine, I think. Left out. I think that's pretty strong. And this is the third attempt at it. So I'm going to take this as definitive and I'm not going to let anyone else challenge this. And my wife says, you're not allowed to. Anyway. I wouldn't dream, tell you. Well, I would not dream of arguing with you, Lee. Otherwise I'll put her on the line and then you'll be in trouble. Big, bad, scary stuff. Scary stuff. I was in. I was in Greece two days ago, mate. I was in the sea, literally. I knew you were on holiday. And my wife said, I bet, yeah. You enjoy yourself. Oh, smack. I was in Kalamata, down at the bottom of the peloponnese. Just a little village up the coast from there, mate. It was just idyllic. Idyllic. It's beautiful, isn't it? If Brexit gets stopped, do you think that the pound will bounce back so quickly that I'll be able to buy a little place for buttons? I think you probably will. I think you probably could now. And they're flying direct. I don't know about down there in the Peloponnese. But it's a bit grim up here in the north. No. So I hear, so I hear. Farristo, Polly. And my regards, philakia steam is. Yep. Thank you. Yeah. Tony's in sitting. Born. Question or answer, Tony? Answer. Carry on. Bees. No. Right. Fact, if you move your hive to more than 2ft, mate, you are sounding. I know, for a conversation that's mostly about bees, you're sounding quite aggressive. Well, I've got a bit of a sore throat and I might. Never mind about the bees. What about when we go out of Europe? Can my italian be still staying or do I have to get passports for them anyway, we have to get passports for. Go on. So you are a beekeeper? Yes, sir. Carry on, then. Okay. If you move your hive more than 3ft or more, the bees will try to go back to the pinpoint where they go entrance into their hive. Right. So if your beehive becomes very compact, you have to move it three or more miles so that the bees don't go back. So. Wow. If you fly. If your bees are moved more than 3 miles, they won't go back home. So that answers the other bit of his question, which was, if a bee flew into his car and he drove for 10 miles and then the bee flew out again, would the bee be able to get back to its hive? The answer is no. The bee will be lost. But the only good thing about haze, the bee has got a life of 600 miles. So the closer he is to the source of his food, the more trips it can make to bring food back to the hive. After 600 miles, he drops down dead. Or she drops down dead. Is that it? That's the expiry date on a bee? That's it. 600 miles approximately, give or take. Could it be that got lost? Go and join another hive? It could, it would, it could join another hive, but it would have to take some form of food or water as a present to enter the hive. It may. It may still have his or. Sorry, it may have. Still have her queen's scent. Smell on her. Yeah. And they might then kill the bee because they can smell a rival. They are pretty. That's a pretty vicious smell. Civilization in the women inside there. Oh, mate, we don't need any of that sort of talk because men have a history of being all peaceable and calm and kindly. No, once the men have done their business, they're kicked out the hive. And if they don't like the queen, they boil her alive. They're going to make another one. So, bit of a republican there. Yeah, that's exactly what they do, mate, I'm afraid. Qualifications? Beekeeper. How long have you been a beekeeper? Five years. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Tony. Have you read. I found that book. Have you ever read the bees by lane? Paul Lallene. Paul La Linepau, double L. If you're going on your holidays this summer, buy it. It's a brilliant book and you'll really enjoy it. I've got the autobiography of James Khan to read. I'm reading that. I only read one book a year. I only have one holiday a year. Fair enough. This one's better. I'll try next year. I know how it ends. The autobiography of James Carne. He gets on dragons then, does he? Yeah. I won't read it now. I'll read your book instead. It's tough. Gotta write it first. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I'm being harassed. You coming in? No, you're not. Chris Moores is up to something in the studio outside. He thinks he's the only one that's allowed to go off script like this and just start riffing like some kind of jazz radio present. Why are you filming me? Because you're Chris Moore. You can do what you want. That's how it works. How he rolls. Take it easy, mate. I'm doing mystery. Don't interrupt. 1248 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LVC. God knows where that footage is going to end up. Hope I wasn't picking my nose. Question still in need of an answer. The political editor of the Spectator magazine has just tweeted that the latest he's hearing is that the UK backstop proposal says that it is time limited, but doesn't specify a time limit. Every time that you think Brexit has been distilled down to a single soundbite of spectacular inane absurdity, someone comes along with an even better one. So it is going to have a time limit to keep David Davis happy. But they're not going to say what the time limit is. And David Davis, presumably, is too dopey to realize. Oh, man alive. Can I just take a quick moment to mark the passing of Peter Stringfellow, the nightclub impresario? I appreciate that some people will be unimpressed by his alleged. Well, not even alleged. I mean the business he was in. Objectified women on a grand scale. I've always gone rather well with a fella, and the story I thought I'd share with you very briefly was one morning at about 08:00 I was making my way to work at the Daily Express, where old Martin was probably still working in the library. And my phone rang. It was Stringy's pa. They said, peter wants to have a word. I thought, he's up early. Normally, he wouldn't get up anything like that early. He'd lie in bed. And he said, I must, must tell you this. I won't do the accent. It was from Sheffield, where my mum's from. So I like the accent. Mum knew him, actually, back in the day, when he was sort of booking acts and the jazz and pop act. So stringy rang me out to tell me that one of the girls at string fellows had, just the night before, got a tip on a credit card for 30,000 pounds. And I said, what do you do in those sort of circumstances? And he says, oh, we go through, like, five. Are you sure you want to do this, sir? Are you sure you want to do this, sir? Are you sure you want to do this, sir? And sir said, yes. And he signed off on 30 grand. I said, where is she? He said, she's already on the way to Heathrow with another dancer. They're going to Ibiza for six months. And about 11:00 I was just finishing off the story for the gossip column, and stringy rings me back and says, we've just had the customer on the line and he's begging for his money back. I said, what are you going to do? He said, he can't have his money back. She's already got it. It's gone. Why is he asking for the money back? Can he afford it? And he said, yes, he's absolutely good for the money. He just doesn't know how he's going to explain it to his wife. A 30 grand bill from Stringfellows. I said, can't you just claim that he bought loads of cristal champagne or something like that? And that is my Peter Stringfellow story. Nice bloke. Actually, 1251 is the time Joe is in Horsley. Back to mystery. Our question or answer, Joe. Hello. Question, James. Carry on, Joe. How come when you stand under the shower and then the water is cold, falling on your temple, if your mouth is closed within a short time, you begin to be breathless or gasping for air? As soon as you switch it to warm or a bit hot water, it goes straight away. You could close your mouth and you could breathe freely under the water. Okay, let me rephrase it. Go on, then. When you go into the shower to bath. Yeah. No, I know what a shower. I know what I show. So the cold water is cold, and it makes you breath. It makes you go. Makes you breathless, and then when it warms up, you can breathe easily without opening your mouth. What do you mean, without opening your mouth? Okay. Now, when you stand under the water with your mouth closed and it is cold, you will be gasping for air. You. You can't gasp if your mouth is closed. No. If your mouth is closed, your nose can breathe, so you can't gasp through your nose. James, what I'm saying is if you are under the shower with your mouth closed. Yeah. Straight away. If the water is cold, you become breathless. Well, open your. Open your mouth, then. Yeah. And then if it is warm, your mouth could be closed and you could breathe easily from your nose. Why is it so. Okay, I'm putting the, uh. I'm putting it on the board, Joe. All right, but there's six minutes left. Uh huh. If you're hoping for an answer, don't hold your breath. Thank you, James. Thank you, Joe. Simon's in Croydon. Question or answer, Simon? It's an answer. Come on, then. To the. Basically requested. Yeah, I've already dealt with that. Ah, well, would you like a more complicated explanation? Yeah, why not? Actually, I would, given that I was trying to get some complicated explanations about Brexit, but it turns out I was right about everything. So let's have a complicated explanation about babies getting hay fever. So hay fever is one of the atopic illnesses which also includes asthma and eczema. Oh, yeah. It's much like any allergy, in that it's usually ige mediated, which is a kind of. It's an antibody which our body produces. Yes. Okay. The specific allergen. So in the case of hay fever, we're talking about pollens and things like that? Yes. Babies have ige passed on to them from their mother, and that is all attached to their mast cells, which break down when they come into contact with allergens, release histamine and give you. And give you the allergic response. Beautiful answer. Qualifications? I'm a pediatric registrar. Oh, well played. Round of applause. And you were quite right. That was a rather more impressive answer than the one that I offered up previously. Joe, how many more do we need? Answers. Anyone on the moles? Do moles get moles? Joe's in Manchester. Joe, question or answer? I've actually moved to Colchester now, but from Manchester to Colchester. Indeed. You'll see why in a second. Carry on. It's an answer about the pandas. So they. It actually is to do with camouflage. Zoo? Zoo, yes. Colchester Zoo, indeed. They often live very, very high up in the mountains, so the white coloration is quite useful for camouflage. And also they do get predated on by things like tigers, but also the dark areas help them be camouflaged in the shades, but they also help with heat conservation and things like that. So the evolutionary explanation is, as it would be with. With other animals as well, it just prolonged or promoted survival, essentially, yes. Love it when. I mean, where. Do forgive me for being such a dope. It's China, isn't it? So I was just trying to. I've never sort of thought of pandas and tigers as being on the same page. Well, it's only some of their range, but kind of in the himalayan foothills and things like that. They're both. But obviously their young still gets predated by things like eagles and various sort of predators that wouldn't be able to take an adult. Qualifications? I am. I've just finished a degree in conservation. I'm halfway through a masters and I'm also an intern at Colchester Zoo. So you were studying at UmIST, were you, or Manchester University? It was at Manchester met. I was doing my masters. And now you've got. You're getting an internship at Colchester. What do you want to do after you've done your masters? I want to be a zookeeper, if possible. Very hard industry to get into. Is this a Rayleigh otter moment? You tell me. I'm about to. Do you have any pandas in Colchester Zoo? No. You actually cannot get pandas because the Chinese. Well, you can, but the Chinese expose, they put their sovereign right on them and it costs you a million pounds. You just wait till after Brexit, mate. We'll be doing loads of panda based deals with China. Haven't you been paying attention? We'll have pandas coming out of our ears. Give him a round of applause. It's not a rally otter. If he had a panda. If he was with a panda, mate, you've got to have a panda with you to get a panda base. Round of a Rayleigh or so. Helen is in Sheffield, appropriately enough. Question or answer, Helen? It's an answer, James. Carry on. It's regarding the question that the gentleman asked about. Do dogs get moles? It's very polite for mistria. The answer is yes, they can. Just like humans can get moles and warts, presumably. Most mammals can if they're. I mean, skin based. Yes, they can. This they can. As with humans, you have to watch out for any changes with moles. Most moles on dogs are benign and it's just a darker patch of pigment. They tend to be flatter and darker. They may get darker when they're out in the sun, as with humans, but nine times out of ten they are benign. That you just have to watch out for any changes with humans. And it is down to the melanin, which is like a little collection of cells. But I would say to any dog owner, if you do see, especially in this weather and you're batting your dog, do you see any changes? Moles, as with humans, take them to the vets just to get them checked out. 80% will be benign, but it's not like with humans. Just get them checked out, see if there's any changes. I think I know the answer to my next question. What are your qualifications? I've actually been involved with dog rescue for the past 30 years. Oh, I thought you were going to say veterinary nurse or something like that, but this is just as good. So you just. You just know a lot about dogs? Yes, I've rehomed well over 200 in 30 years and I have a breed that are quite renowned for having high pigment because they are white dogs. But you do tend to see more moles on darker skinned dogs, do you? Just harder to spot. But just the thing for people listening, if you do see a mole, as with humans, just get it checked out. If you just see any changes, just exactly the same as humans. Lovely work, Helen. Thank you very much indeed. And that we've done it. Gone full Mistria. That's fantastic. Full, full tank. I'm going to run out of time. I'm going to do a Sadiq car and I'm not going to have time to pay glowing tribute to the outgoing editor of the Daily Mail. Sheila Fogarty is here. Do you remember a taxi driver called Carlos? I do. I met him yesterday. Yeah, he's got both of us now. Oh, bless him. I think you and I should combine forces and set up a figure. No, a figurine panini style collection. So if ever, like a loyalty card at Cafe Nero, if you get a selfie with every single LBC presenter you get, you get what? You get. Dinner with Nick Ferrari. Have you mentioned to Nick. Not yet. Couldn't it be breakfast? He's probably tired in the evening. Be right. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from Tan only on LBC.