What was a # before twitter - 6 Aug 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC. Text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, six minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we turn our attention next to our weekly foray into the unknown mystery hour. The way it works is this. You have a fairly straightforward question in your mind that you know has an answer, but you've just been utterly unable to find the answer yourself. Somebody else listening to this will have the answer. Ring me, ask the question, sit back, wait to get the answer. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. The very straightforward mission is to solve mysteries. Let's kick it straight off. A couple of criteria under which you will be politely invited to jog along. One is that the question is dull and the other is that we've dealt with it relatively recently. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Should we just crack on? Actually, rather than inflict the introduction on you in the usual terms and conditions, just crack on. And then if you're new to it, you can work it out as we go along. Should we try to see how that works? Yeah. Okay. And then if lots of people start ringing in with questions that are unsuitable, I'll give you, I'll give you the chapter and verse on that subsequently. So let's start in red and Chrissy's there. Chrissy, what's your question? Oh, hi there. Every week you talk about the mystery hour Twitter question, hashtag. Oh, yeah, I forgot that this week. Hang on a minute. Well, no, wait there, wait there. Hashtag Twitter mystery hour. If you want to get a question submitted and you listen next week on the podcast, carry on. Chrissy. Hashtags were obviously around before Twitter, but I don't know what. What were they originally meant for? Oh, what a great question. Was it numbers being your background? But sure, they were invented long before Twitter and I just wondered what they were there for. They were. I've got a feeling they wouldn't, that they denoted numbers. Does that ring any bells with you? No, you put the hashtag in front of. But then why would you do that if you can see that it's a number, possibly. Hence why I'm ringing off. No, I'll leave it there. Let's get it. What was that? What was the hashtag? What was it called? Was it called a hashtag hash? So we should know more than this, surely. I started work, we were still using typewriters in the office, but I don't know what that was for. I think it's something to do in numbers, but that's clearly not enough to earn me a round of applause, even when I'm in charge of awarding them. And also, that reminds me, I'll dig something out of hashtag Twitter mystery ass, so that we can remember the people who are listening later, as opposed to right now. Nine minutes after twelve on Thursday afternoon, Steve's in Bedfordshire. Steve, question or answer? On the anniversary of Nagasaki and Hiroshima, a question came back to my head, which was, what would happen if we nuked a desert? Would there just be an enormous cloud of sand? Or would it turn it into a lake of glass because of the heat and sand being a constituent part of. They did test them in the desert. There were. There were tests conducted in deserts, but I don't know. Obviously, that's how someone will be able to answer the question. Could be a professor Howe question. It could be. It could be. But I don't. You know, I don't like to sort of tempt him out prematurely. I like to wait and see whether or not he plays his card. I've said I'm not going to do any explaining. And now, if you are listening to this for the first time, you're wondering a what the hell is going on? And be who the hell, Professor Halleys. He's the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and one of mystery House most cherished items of furniture. Ellie's in Hanwell. Ellie, question or answer? I have a question. James. Hello. Hello. Can I just express how excited I am to be on your program? Yeah, knock yourself out. I just want to know, what is the origin of kissing someone? Why is it that when I put my lips on someone else's cheek, it's a sign of affection? I mean, where did that come from? Well, that's a lovely question, isn't it? Oh, thank you. Because, I mean, there's a million other things you could do. It'd be slightly less exciting, perhaps, if the original sign of affection was a high five or a handshake. The mouth is. It wouldn't if that was where it originated. Well, often it's about vulnerability. It's about making yourself more vulnerable. To show trust. We go right back to. Right back to brass tacks. But whether or not that would fit here, because I think. Anyways, rub noses, don't they? That's what we're always taught as kids, I think. Yeah. Nosy, nosey. No, she noses. Because I don't know whether that's. Because there's a risk of their lips sticking together. It's so cold. Wow. Where does kissing come from? Yeah, all right. There any cultures that don't kiss? If you think about it, you know, when you kiss a kid, you've been kissing the wrong people. You've been kissing the wrong people, Elliot. It's a marvelous thing. Yeah. I mean, if you kiss a child, they'll often, you know, push you away. It's not. You're sucking someone's cheeks in. Really? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. It's spit and saliva and things that I suppose, evolutionarily we are partly programmed to avoid. Although I don't know if you should be sucking children's cheeks. No wonder they're getting traumatized by the X period. We will, Ellie. We will find out for you. It's usually old. It's like old aunties and granny great grannies and things like that. And it's a whole combination of sensations that children can find a little discombobulating. I love that. I love that. I haven't got a pen. Where does kissing come from? Remind you of the other questions in a minute. Twelve minutes after twelve. Jimmy's on the Isle of Dogs. Jimmy, question or answer? Hi, James. Lovely to finally get on the board. Likewise. Lovely. Dead people. Why is it dead people are referred to as late? Late? The late James O'Brien or the Henderson's will all be there. Late of Dander Dander Square. Is it? Does it just not mean late of late lately? Why late? You know, it's just the word late that I can't get my head around. The late. We're just. Maybe it's just a little more sensitive than dead. Let's say the dead sounds a little bit bold, doesn't it? Say the late cilablack sounds a lot more palatable. Why not the early syllabic? Because then you just think about our first few records. I'll find out for you. Why do we say late for someone who has passed instead of, I suppose, a more instructive or obvious term? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call Jones. I hope you're keeping a record of this because hashtag kissing late. There's another one as well. Yeah. No. What was the very. What was the second one? Hashtag kissing late. There's one more. Oh, well. Scott's in. Scott's in Sutton. I'll get back to you on that Scott. What question or answer? Hi, James. I'd like to know why we use the term copycat. Who are you talking to? Oh, sorry, James. I was just signing in at Pinewood. Signing in at Pinewood. There you go. Copycat. For someone who copies something. Copy. Copy. Yeah. Why do we say cat instead of just copier? Copier, yeah. Copycat. Copycat sitting on the door. Oh, is it the nursery, Ryan? Which one? Well, you just said one, didn't you? Copycat. Copycat sitting on the doormat. Well, but that would come after copycat. We would be calling people who copy copycats before anybody bothered to write a rhyme about it, wouldn't we? Well, yeah. Yeah, I would have thought. Why a cat? You don't think of a cat as being a particularly imitative. Imitative? Imitate. You don't think of a cat. Is doing a lot of copying. Do you know? You don't. Don't know. What would be. What animal does copy? What you do? A parrot. I mean, a parrot. Yeah. A chimpanzee, possibly. You're a copy parrot. I mean, doesn't come off the top. You're a copy chimp. Why copy cow? Yeah, I like that. I like all the questions today. I'll do my best during the travel news to see if I can remember all of them. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call if a nuclear bomb, or when a nuclear bomb goes off in a desert, what happens to the sand? Does it just blow up into the air in a massive cloud or does it actually get exposed to sufficient heat to turn it into glass? Because glass is made of sand, in part. Why do we use the term copycat? Why do we say late instead of dead? Any of those. And the origins of kissing. Zero 345-606-0973 it's 12, 15, 20 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The five questions currently in need of answers on mystery hour are what's the origin of the hashtag? You know, the thing we use on Twitter? It's already on the keyboards before Twitter existed. What did it used to be for? Why do we kiss? Where does kissing come from? I've had one answer to that via a tweet. I don't really take answers via tweet, but that's absolutely fascinating. What would happen if a nuclear bomb went off in the desert? Suspect that they have been tested in the desert. So that might be an answer based in fact rather than projection or speculation. And what's the origin of copy Cat. Why cat copy cat? Cat's not really an animal that springs to mind when you think of creatures copying each other. Or is it? I don't know. No, I don't think it is. All of those need answers. And then when we've got a couple, we'll have phone lines free for your questions. Sue is in Hendon. Sue, question or answer? I have a question, please, James. Carry on, sue. No, I don't know about you, but I think I'm really quite funny sometimes. I don't know you well enough, really, sue, but I'll take your word for it. My question is, are there any instances of humor in the Bible? And we're not talking about constipated people. You mean. You mean genuinely deliberate humor? Yeah, I mean, it's a bit. A lot of unintentional. It's a heck of a lot of unintentional humor, especially in the Old Testament. I mean old, you know, old Testament, New Testament. I've never come across anything remotely funny. And I was just wondering, because we are humorous people. I think people are genuinely funny. And that was my question anyway. Like, so Jesus walking on water and then saying to all the apostles, no, you guys can do it, too. That kind of thing. I honestly don't know much about the New Testament. No, don't worry. All right, well, Noah. Noah getting it. Noah getting everyone on board the ark and then saying April fool, that sort of thing. Yeah, yeah. I don't remember reading that bit. I don't think I can think. I mean, I know my way around the Bible pretty well. Problem is, I've never actually looked for humor. I'm always fond of saying you can find whatever you want in every religious text if you look hard enough. That's why you can have people arguing the same text is a polar opposite in its teachings. But humor, just genuinely. I just need to pin you down a little more. Are there any instances of humor? Let's face it, men wrote the Bible. You know, people wrote the Bible. It wasn't, you know, okay. They say the hand of God was there, but, you know, the fact. Genuine and deliberate humor in the Bible. Yeah, it's a flipping brilliant question. I love it. Thank you so much. Well, I don't know if we'd be able to answer it definitively, because. You can answer it definitively? Yes. I don't know if we can answer it definitively, no. Unless we go away and read the whole thing. But hope, I'm sure there must be some theologian who isn't on holiday, who might be listening from whom? We might get a yes. But to get a no, I don't know if anyone would have the confidence to state categorically, there's no humor at all. But we'll find out. Let's stop speculation. Sue, thank you very much indeed. 1223 is the time. Professor Hal is here. It will be the bomb question, won't it? It will be. He really asked specifically, didn't he? What can I say? Yeah, I know, but I don't want you to feel press ganged into answering questions when you haven't had a chance to hear more. Well, I thought about keeping my powder dry, but it's such a nice question. Do you like this one a lot? Genuinely, I do. Because it's about mushroom clouds. Yes, it is. So if a nuclear bomb went off in the desert, the interesting is, why does it form a mushroom cloud as well? Can I work that one in? Let's see. I want you to start off with what would happen in the sand. Both you get a big glass crater, because the temperature of a thermonuclear device, aka hydrogen bomb, which is a fusion bomb, is 100 million degrees. So it's well above the melting. Way above the melting point and probably above the boiling point of sand, actually. So you'd certainly get blast sand, but also. And would it be a sheet? It would be like a crater, like an ice rink, almost. In a crater shape. Yeah. A very dirty, dirty glass. Dirty because it have loads of unmelted sand in it. Yeah. It had pockets of non homogeneous sand. You're quite right. And the point is that that hundred million degrees will cause a column of very, very hot air, which then gets very much less dense than the air around it, which makes the stem of the mushroom. So it shoots. Rises up. Yep. And because air gets dense, the higher you go, at some point the density of the rising air equals a density error around it, so it starts going out to form the top of the mushroom, which is when all the sand would then be scattered as fallout, of course. Yes, of course. Particulates, which are scattered so that the solids are scattered by a nuclear event. That's a pretty definitive answer. Am I right in thinking? A few people have told me that there are recorded cases of asteroids creating glass shelves in the desert. That wouldn't surprise me at all, because the amount of energy they release, their kinetic energy, is converted into heat energy. So the Tunguska meteor impact had as much energy as a sort of a small sized sun. So it wouldn't surprise me in the slightest. I love it. Professor Howell, first one of the weekends, about your millionth, but you deserve Them all. Some of the sayings in the book of proverbs, Helen, who is painting radiators in Harlow, tells me, are really funny. But I need a little more than that. I need deliberate and genuine humor in the bible because I'm not sure there is any we can cross off. Our first answer, Professor Hal has gone definitive. Cynthia is in Regents park. Question or answer, Cynthia? It's an answer. Carry on. Answer to copycat. Yes, and I first saw it in a book. And the caption at the bottom of the book had the ancient egyptian women copied the shape and style of the cat's eyes in their makeup. Hence the saying copycat. Really? Yep. I actually saw it in a book. I actually copied the picture, put it on my wall. I have it on my wall at home. And I've got a picture here, and there's a mirror. There's the egyptian queen, and there's a cat just behind the picture, peeping just behind the mirror. And the queen is copying the shape of the cat's eyes. And that's the caption that was in the book. I mean, copy to come back over to stick around for 3000 years when she's got the. I know they copied cats, I'll give you that. But I don't know if that's the origin of the phrase copy cats in theory. I mean. Well, this is what I have. That means it would have. That means it would have crossed continents, made its way from Africa to Europe over a period of 3000 years, during which time makeup wasn't used in this part of the world for a significant portion of that period. Well, I don't know, but this is what I. What I have in the book and I. She's copying the actual shape of the cat's eyes. Yeah. And when you think about it, the egyptian makeup of the Egyptians, the. The eyes were like. Like cat's eyes, you know? Anyway, that's. Although. No, don't be like that. I don't. Anyway. Anyway, me, Cynthia, I'm still just thinking. All right. I just. I'm just going to consult the crack team. Whoa. Are you sick? Well, I never. Thank you very much. Well, don't thank me. Thank Jones, the engineer. Cynthia, that's a lot. Bye. Yeah, don't. Don't talk to him. Steve's in Greenwich. Steve, question or answer? Question? Unfortunately, no. We need questions. Otherwise there'll never be any answers. That's a bit of philosophy for you there, Steve. Go on. It's about roman numerals. Yes. No. When I was at school, four or. Sorry, five was v. Yeah. Six is v one. Yeah. And four is one v or four one s. Four ones? Yeah. Why do some clocks show four ones or one v? What? Basically it's the same numeral. Does you pick the same number? Yeah. Well, you don't want two v's on there because it looked confusing. So you put four ones for four instead of having ivv in your sort of top right hand corner of the clock. Not too sure? No. All right, then. It's a rubbish question. I was trying to be polite. You sure? Well, yeah. I mean, why do they not put two versus next to each other on a clock is what you're asking? It wouldn't be. Would it be one v, then? V? Yeah. That's two versus next to each other, or three versus in a row. One Vv. V I. You'd have three v's in a row. That's incredibly confusing. So they just do it to minimize the number of these also, I mean, some clocks do do it. They must have bigger clocks so the gap is smaller, so it is less confusing. Unless I'm misunderstanding you, Steve, it's fairly obvious, isn't it? Not really, no. Why do you think they have numbers on clock faces? Not all clocks have numbers. Yeah, but why do you think? Generally there are numbers on clock faces? To help you tell the time. So ideally, those marks that help you tell the time will be as unconfusing as possible, which means that having four one s followed by a vi followed by a v followed by a v one is less confusing than I. V I. He's even talking about it is confusing. Still, at least it's only this. I'll get a pedantic horologist on now. I know what you're thinking. Pedantic horologists. I've got all their albums. What would you like? Oh, no, he's not. Well, he is, but it doesn't matter because we're doing this minister one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, origin of kissing. I hope that question, the answer that came in via Twitter is right, but I hope someone rings in with the. With the answer, because I don't take answers off Twitter. Why do we say late instead of dead copy cat? What's that about? Cat's not a particularly copying creature. And is there any humor in the Bible that's in danger of being one of my favorite questions ever? Because the best questions are always the ones you can't answer. Not the ones you can. Is there any humour in the Bible? Deliberate humour? Not unintentional humour, obviously. I suppose the closer to agnosticism or atheism you are, the more absurd you'll find some of the claims. You could find the whole Bible absurd and comical, I suppose, if you wanted to. But this is about what the writer intended to be funny. It's important to make that clear. Stuart's in Bermondsey. Question or answer, Stewart. Hey, James. It's a question. Yes, this might be a really silly question, so I haven't rung for weeks in case it might have been. Don't worry. But I'd like to know what comes out the nozzle of a 3d printer. Yeah, because I read somewhere about one actually building a steel bridge. Not printing the blueprint, building it a bridge or a steel bridge? A steel bridge, which kind of suggests that steel comes out of the end of it, but it does rather. Yeah, but they make all sorts of things. So I'm kind of just wondering, is it always the same stuff that comes out of the nozzle of a 3d printer? Yes, exactly. Polymers. Why have I got the word poly? What's a polymer? Isn't it a form of plastic? Got that in my head for some reason. I never know why these things pop out during mystery. Although it may prove to be pertinent. It may not. Yeah. I mean, that might be a really straightforward question, or you might need your professor. But professor's already. Already been and gone. Yeah. I love this. No, I love it because, I mean, 3d printers, they're clearly on the march. Not quite taken over the world yet, but we hear a lot about them and know very little. You can make a gun. That seems. I think I always thought it was a form of plastic, but then a steel bridge, I don't know. Let's find out what comes out of the nozzle. Who's got a 3d printer? Give me a ring. Tell me what's coming out of your nozzle. Might want to rephrase that before I repeat the question. Andrew's in Ilford. Question or answer? Andrew. Here's an answer. Yes. The hashtag, the correct name for a hashtag is an octothorpe. An octothorpe, yeah. And apparently, or according to my old geography master, many moons are gone. Good old Jimmy. When he wasn't, how should I phrase it? Drunk. When he hadn't come back from the pub. Yes, carry on. He was well of useless information, except on this occasion, he told us, he showed us a hashtag and said it was a symbol, an old map makers symbol for a village, because it represented the village square surrounded by eight fields. And since Thorpe is the old. Is an old name for a village. Yes, it is. Octo is for eight. You do have the eight fields surrounding the village, the thorp. So Octo Thorpe, that would appear to indicate a village on a map. So it was a cartographer's part of the cartographer's lexicon. So it would sort of indicate that maybe Jimmy was not totally drunk that afternoon after all. Well, the problem is that obviously, you've undermined your own credentials by revealing the drunkenness of your source, because when I say, what are your qualifications? And you say, I was taught geography by one of the finest academics ever to draw breath in the southern hem, in the northern hemisphere, and then you get a round of applause, but I say, what are your qualifications? And you say, well, a drunk teacher told me once, I don't know if that's going to get you over the line, Andrew. Well, never mind. Put this way, I'm giving the answer that I've got. But it's the quality. It's the quality of your qualifications that determines whether or not you go definitive, Andrew. And you've just told us that your qualifications are a drunk old teacher. Doesn't mean you're wrong. It doesn't mean you're wrong. Yeah, I think the plausibility of your answer is probably going to make the difference, actually. It's probably going to cancel out the questionability of your qualifications. What about, have you not got anything in your head that it just denotes a number, like the sign for a number. Don't record anything like that. You know, it used to. You know, you sort of do it sort of. If it was a number on the list, I suppose, the hash. But on the other hand, you know, you might also be listing villages as well, so it might have come under that. And maps. Maps predate printing, don't they, as well? So they would have been hand drawn originally on a map. And that, again, makes sense, because it's easy to draw four straight lines. I'm going to give you a round of applause. Well, it. There you go. See that? Mystery hour is a. Is a collegiate exercise, Andrew, you see. Well, add yourself into the round, then. Oh, bless you. I will. All right. I'll just have a small snap. That's enough, thank you. I don't want to appear greedy, Andrew. Thank you very much. That's a lovely answer. And I shall remember, Octothorpe until at least oh, I don't know. Quarter to one. Brain like a sieve these days. Dick's in Hackney. Dick, question or answer? Answer. Come on, Dick. You were in the Bible? Yeah. There was a time when there was a prophet by the name of Elijah. You could find this in first kings, chapter 18. A prophet by the name of Elijah. Elijah. They had wanted to prove who is the true God because the Israelites were worshipping a lot of false gods. One of the principal ones was Baal. At one time they met in order to prove which one is true, which one is false. Yes. And the baal prophets, there were quite a lot of them, 450 of them. And so they decided to give this sacrifice and say, whichever God, answer by fire is the true God. Okay. And so the Baal prophets, they were giving the first chance and they were there praying and calling on them and what have you. And what I found humorous is that after they got no answer, Elijah started to mock them, as it were. Yes. He said he listen, cry aloud because he's a God. Either he's talking or he's just pursuing on a journey, or sometimes he's sleeping and you got to wake him. And he said that he cried and they cried. Even cut themselves with Lancet or not. It. I found that, find that very humorous. So that is a humor for me. In the Bible. They may have lost something in the telling, Dick. Yeah, it may have lost something in the telling. I may have lost something. Like what? Well, I don't really understand. No. What it, what it was, what it is, as I'm saying. Yeah. That there was so much problem in Israel at the time when it was King Ahab, his wife was Jezebel, and they decided to find out which God is in charge. So hang on. So when, when all the prophets had sort of started screaming and keening and, and Elijah took the mickey out of them. That's right. But how did he prove that his God was the real God? Because his God is the one that answered with fire. Fire came down at a time when Elijah prayed and asked the God to prove. So Elijah got the jackpot. He got the payoff. Yes. And then he said to all the others, oh, maybe your God's asleep. No, no. He told him that before. No, let me go back just slightly, what I'm saying. But when they came to this test. Yeah. They decided to offer a sacrifice. Yeah. To their God. And then they started praying for fire. The prophets of Baal. Yeah. That's why the prophets of Baal were given the first chance to call on their God. Yes. And they called from morning right down to midday. Nothing at all happened. Right? Right. Yes. After that, Elijah decided to rebuild the altar and pray to his God. And fire came down. But what I'm saying, once they were calling on the God and nothing was happening, Elijah said to them, listen, man, you're. Listen, man. What version of the Bible are you reading? Listen, man, I got some. I got some sermons for you dudes. Elijah said to them, listen, he's a God, so cry louder. And they were shouting. They were screaming. They were. Ah, okay. So the idea that a God would be omniscient but somehow still unable to hear his priest shouting, and you think that's deliberate humor by. By whoever wrote the book of kings because maybe he's gone in a journey or maybe he's sleeping, so got to wake him. Yeah. This amazing God of yours, maybe he's popped out for a pint of milk or something, possibly. Yeah, that's what he was. And I see that as kind of a humor in the. I think. I think you're right. I think you're right. Would you like a round of applause, man? Well, I deserve it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dick, that was brilliant. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call Peter's in Staplehurst. Question or answer, Peter? Answer yes to the watch face of one v. We've done that. See aesthetics in it. The only one I've got. Yeah, absolutely. All right, never mind. Go and have a crack. Well, that's it. Because on one side of the clock, it's very heavy on the other side with the 8910, 1112, whereas 12345, a very small number of pen strokes. If you buy a clock or you look at a magazine or something, it will usually show 10:10 or 08:20 because it just balances. It looks nice. And also it's a smile. Ten past 10:10 looks like all the clocks are smiling. So it minimizes confusion of having a proliferation of these on the right hand side. But it also just looks nicer if you look at the strokes from one to five. Like one is obviously one stroke, two is two. There are eleven on 1234 fives got eleven strokes. On the other side, 8910 eleven has got 17. And it just takes two off of, or adds two to the. To the light side and it just looks more balanced. And, yeah, I'm going to give you a round of applause. It's kind of a bit of a retread, but it's always nice to hear zero 345-606-0973 is the number. You can buy clocks with iv on the four. But that kind of proves that it is just about aesthetics and simplicity, ease of understanding. It's 1245. Ten minutes to one is the time. Mystery hour is almost over. Where does it go? Are you getting this lately or is it just me? The show seems to fly by before. We've barely started. You used to feel tight sometimes. I used to sort of look up and it'd be 10:10 now I look up and it's ten to one. We should stop being so jolly. I mean, entertaining and diverting and interesting should let me talk more. Then time will start dragging by really, really slowly again. Tom's in Enfield. Tom, question or answer? Hi, James. Bring it on, Tom. So I manufacture and design 3d printers. So what comes out of a nozzle of a 3d printer is molten plastic. That's what I thought, yeah. But also you can get molten polymer like mixtures of copper and glue. So you can print metal? You can print metal. You can print metal, yeah. Wow. And it's. And it's on a roll of filament, which is like a roll of plastic, like wire. So you feel you feed that in one end. So, yeah, so the. So the printer sucks in the filament and pushes it through a hot nozzle and melts it. And your model is creating like layers of melted plastic. Or you can have melted wood as well, so you can print in wood if you wanted to. Melted wood? Yeah. You can get the front door melted wood. So it's a wood and glue mixture. Oh, okay. Yeah. Like a liquid wood. You can use that to fill in your window frames, can't you? That kind of stuff. You mean like a resin? Yeah, yes. Resiny? Resinous, yeah. What are your qualifications, Tom? Well, I design and build 3d printers for a living, so, yeah, if you build it, they will come. How many are there of you? How many are there? What? People building and designing 3d printers at the moment, roughly? There's probably quite a few really kicking in. Not many in the UK. No, that's what I meant, yes. So, yes. Are you, are you a pioneer? We're not a pioneer. We are at the front of the front of the forefront of the technology, trying to help it move forward. Are you going to take over the world? I mean, 3d printers, not you personally. Soon, everyone will have a 3d printer soon. And who are your clients? Anybody, really. Anybody wants to make something? Architects, schools? Anybody really home user? Anybody. So you make the printer for people to make models with or to make. Yeah, yeah. Prototypes. Yeah. The mechanics. I love people like you because you make it sound also matter of fact. And Jonesy, engineer and I are like this. Oh, wow. It's like. Can you make a hoverboard? What? It's a plank. Yeah. It doesn't hover, mate. Yeah, that's a plank. That'll be 50 grand. There's a story in the paper today. Yeah, well played. Absolutely. What? Do you want to give your company a mention or not? Yeah, we're steady 3d printers in Park Royal. Steady 3d printers in Park Royal. There you go, you heard it here first, Tom. Thank you, mate. If you build it, they will come. 3d printer builder and designer. So it is a variety plastic base, but you could add metal to that. Which possibly explains where the question of steel bridge came from. Michael's at the Barbican. Michael, question or answer? Answer. James. Come on then, what have you got? Why do we kiss? Hang on a minute, mate, we've only just met. I know, but we like it, don't we? Can't complain. It's better than a handshake. Go on. Listen, James, I've always been led that it's part of an animal instinct. Enough where. And animals are. Pass food by their parents, they chew it up. That's lovely. Young animals are always around their parents mouth and licking and trying to get affection, food. And it's something that we've had in us for millions of years. You see, birds do it still, of course, don't you? They chew the food and then deliver it mouth to mouth to that, to their child. And you see, I mean, I've got somewhere, I believe that. I meant probably some cultures still do it now. I mean, we might bite off a bit of food and give it to our children and they're looking for food. So that's my answer. I can't do any better than that. Mothers passing food mouth to mouth with their babies. Why would we move from that to, like, snogging? I can't. I can't explain. I can't say that over the air, James. But there's no. I mean, there's no. It's affection, isn't it? Are we going to get all freudian? We're going to get all freudian on this? Well, we started to communicate verbally and we said, like, I don't want the food, just give us a snog. So I think that's where it's. Are you an anthropologist? By training. Listen, I. You're not going to believe. You're not going to believe this, but. No, but I think I. It's either. It's either David Attenborough or the other fellow, Desmond Morris. That's it. I think you've nailed it. I think you've done it. I think that's absolutely right. What? Beautiful. Those are your qualifications. Well played, Michael. Yeah. Oh, James. Yes. I'm a black cab driver. I know everything. Yeah. Except we have to deal with Uber. It's 1256. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Giles is in new mild and Giles. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Oh, it's a bit late. That's not your fault. Go on. What is it? Okay, if London Heathrow on an airport tag is known as LHW. Yes. Why is Los Angeles known as Lax? What does the X stand for? Probably to distinguish it from Lagos or whichever came first and Bagsy DLA. They had to find some way of making Los Angeles different. And the x was just the most obvious way to do it. No, possibly. Portland, Oregon is also PDX, though, and he's sort of up the road. Yeah, because. That's because PD got bagsied by. Come on, help me out, guys. PD got bagsied by, you know, the famous purpud. Oh, man. I don't know. But it's probably to distinguish it, isn't it, from. Does it have to be three letters? Yeah, it does. I mean, Charles de Gaulle is CDG. London Gatwick. W G. Whatever. YX on LA. Y. The X. Y X. Go on, then. I'll see if we can get an answer to that. We also need copycat and late, if we can, before close the play today. Speaking of closer play today, astonishing scenes. Astonishing. Mark's in Beckingham. Mark, question or answer? I've got an answer. Yeah, come on in. Well, I think it's to do with the late. Well, you would say late instead of day. Yes. To the dead. So you wouldn't say the latter. And the latter is to come second or remember. So you say late. So you say late instead of latter. Well, no, you know, you choose. You were saying choose word. Latterly. This person. Latterly, latter letter. Yeah. No, well, I don't understand. Wait there a second. Seriously, stay there. Mark. Do you understand? Am I being a bit slow? Yeah. No, apparently it's. You were shooting. What the. I think the guy was saying, uh. Why would you use the word light? Yeah, well, the other word of light would be latter, wouldn't it? Yeah, but why do you say latter? To describe someone who's dead. Why don't you just say dead? Well, you wouldn't. You would say let. You would say. You could say late, wouldn't you, instead of LA. But why would you say latter? Because if you look at the dictionary, it needs to remember someone. Second. Latter. Latterly. Latter. Late of this parish, lately dead. I think you're close to it. Just give him a round of applause. It's 1258. Go on, Mark. Well played. There you go. Oh, and quickly. David lax. What's it about? I'm not sure. Quite sure what the x is. It's something to do with Los Angeles International. I don't know why. Squeezing in at the end like that, pretending you've got all a brilliant answer. Anyone could. This is James O'Brien on LBC. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you'll hear belongs to shooter Fogarty. You're very strict there. Thanks very much, James.