What about bone transplants?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Well, hello, four minutes after twelve is the time. And, oh, Crikey, I got rather taken by surprise by my own program then. I was just trying to get to the bottom of this. Lord Geit resignation. I think I know exactly what's happened and I will share it with you, even though that involves a minor breach of mystery. Our rules. Speaking of mystery hour rules, there is, of course, a prize available for my favorite contribution of the day. And that prize is a brand spanking new box full of mystery hour board game fun, currently available, as I mentioned a moment ago, in branches of John Lewis as well as online at Mystery Hour dot co dot UK and at various other online retailers. But there are rules, because this is now a very grown up and proper radio program. Although I think we can all agree it wasn't when we invented Mystery hour, there are now terms and conditions on the website, which you are free to consult at LBC Dot co dot Uk. Other than that, the only rubric I am responsible for is a quick reminder of the phone number zero 345-606-0973 and then to let mystery hour commence. Should we just crack straight on? I mean, if you still need the rules explaining, then just listen for ten minutes and they should become clear. And then if you break any by accident when you ring in, I'll just tell you off and everyone will be happy. Right. So what, I mean, are there any rules? Not really. You know, if you're going to ring in with an answer, you're not allowed to look it up. That's pretty much all that we've got left. Isn't it sort of obvious, you'd think, but less so if you're just tuning in for the first time, you're not allowed to google it or look it up. If you looked it up last week because you were helping the kids with their homework, that's fine, that qualifies. That's. That's a qualification, but that's it. I think 1205 is the time. Shall we start with Charlotte, who is in Crystal Palace? Charlotte, question or answer? Oh, James, hi. I've got a question. It should be a walk in the park for you broadcaster. I'll say that I'm worried now. Go on. Okay. How new does news have to be? Tough to be considered breaking news. And how old does news have to be before it stops being considered as breaking news? Well, it's not. It's not, as you've probably gathered, it's not an exact science. I miss news flashes, James. I want an old fashioned news flush when there's real breaking news. I would actually agree with you, but I think those days are behind us now forever. I mean, really, people stick breaking, especially on Twitter. They stick it on anything now. And sometimes all it means is this is the first time we've reported it and it bears no resemblance whatsoever or makes no reference whatsoever to the fact that a rival may have reported it ten minutes ago or I think it's largely meaningless. Unfortunately, Charlotte, I think the end you, Jane, is to get behind the claws. And I don't know what you could do to sort of. What would you do? You'd punish people who claimed that they were breaking a story, as in publishing it for the. Or broadcasting it for the very first time before anybody had done so. And if you did that, you'd be punished. I love it. But, you know, 24 hours, rolling news everywhere. When I was growing up in the seventies, it was midday or one ish, 06:00 and then 10:00 we got with our lives in between. I know, I hear you. Although LBC was around in that era and we're not really doing rolling, our sister station does rolling. I think we can pretty much say what it means now is this is just happening now, or this is being published or reported for the first time, or we are irresponsibly claiming that this is being published for the first time because we don't want to admit that our rivals published it 20 minutes ago. That's your law. Have you saved it? For how long? For an hour, even that. I mean, you're gonna look a little bit ridiculous if you claim it's breaking an hour after other people reported it, but I think there are instances and examples of people actually doing that. So I truly think it's been rendered utterly meaningless by modernity. Thank you, Charlotte. I'm going to give myself a round of applause, if that's all right with you. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Qualifications know it all. 1207 is the time. Thank you, Charlotte. Lily is in Leamington spa. Lily, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. I was watching spring watch last night. Oh, yeah? And they were on the isle of Mull, and they were talking about the puffins, and they said that there are these black back girls that swallow the puffins whole. Baby puffins? No, no, no. Like adult puffins. How big are the goals? I don't know. I think they're pretty big. What they were saying is, like, you'd think that having humans on the land would put the puffins off, but they actually like it and they go and sit next to the people. No, they're ludicrously tame puffins. I don't know why. Probably because they haven't been conditioned to fear humans. But you see it in North Berwick. Sometimes the humans put the gulls off from eating them. Right. Whereas when the humans go, the puffins go back out to sea. Anyway, it's a bit more big question, but it's like, what happens when something gets swallowed whole by something else? Does it stay alive? Does it suffocate? Does it dissolve? Well, I think it would be alive. It would be all of the above. It would be alive to start with, I think. Probably. Well, I mean, it depends, doesn't it, on how big it is or. I mean, I don't know what would count as a definitive answer on this one. If you swallow it whole without killing it fast. And it is going to be alive for some of the journey through your body, isn't it? And then I imagine it is more likely to suffocate than be actually killed by the consequences of stomach acids. Or it might have a heart attack and die of fear on its way down a seagull's gullet, but I imagine it's suffocation. Would that count as an answer? If an expert, I mean. Yeah, I suppose. Like you say, it probably depends on the animal as well. I'm just struggling. Did you. Were you paying attention? My wife knits now when we're watching telly, and sometimes she misses crucial moments. Were you paying attention? I'm struggling to conceive of a goal big enough to swallow a puff in hole. I thought that might be the case. I actually went and re watched it before I called to make sure I watched. That's the level. That's the level of detail and attention that we expect on this. Yeah. I'm taking it seriously, don't worry. And it was a girl swallowed a puffing hole. It was. It was a black backed girl. And, yeah, they said that they will swallow them whole. Yeah. If it's not true, take it up with spring watch. I will. I will. But I'll specifically ask about that, then. So when a gull swallows a puffin, how does the puffin die? Yeah, you're on. It is quite morbid, actually. Why do you want to know? I don't know. I just thought it was quite interesting. Curiosity has been peaked. Yeah. Thank you, lily. That's all right. We shall do our best. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. Goals and puffins. When a gull swallows a puffin whole and un chewed. How does. I mean, I'm thinking of snakes, actually, that most obviously swallow their prey whole and presumably some of them have been crushed first, but I don't. Anyway, Mitch is in Chelmsford. Mitch, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Mitch. I recently returned from my honeymoon to Costa Rica. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Are you still together? Are you still together? Just about. Even though what I'm about to tell you is challenged it. But yeah, wonderful place, wonderful people. But they were heavy on the mosquitoes over there, James. And while my wife got bitten perhaps three times in the three weeks that we were there, I was getting bitten three times on the hour, every single hour. And I want to know what makes me so irresistible to these creatures, to mosquitoes. So your new wife was not bitten as enthusiastically as you were? It was constantly, mate. I was getting. No, no. But your wife wasn't. Yeah. Wasn't. Yeah. So what. What's the. What's the science between. What are they searching for these things? I mean, do I look like a curry to them and she looks like a piece of lettuce? It's a really good question, because every family, everyone listening to this, who's ever been on holiday somewhere mosquito ish, will know that some family members get bitten a lot more than others. I'm more like your wife, thankfully. It's one of the rare areas of biology where I appear to have some sort of evolutionary advantage over other people. But, um, I was even applying, like the, the industry standard, sort of, uh, repellent all over me ankles and me legs, and they just seemed to through that as well, and she wouldn't need to put any on. And again, I just wouldn't get bitten. No, I'm perhaps not as superpowered as she is. One of my daughters gets bitten a lot and the other one less so, and my wife gets bitten more than I do. And I don't know. And I look forward to this because I'm in Greece soon and no doubt the conversation will come up. And if I can keep my counsel until then, after getting a definitive answer, then get that little look on their faces where they go flipping out. Dad, that's just boring. Why are you even telling us this stuff? But it's not boring to us, Mitch. Which is why I shall endeavor to find out, mate. Thank you. Why do mosquitoes prefer some people to others? Zero 345-606-0973 Imran is in Ilford Imran, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Imran. I was just looking at my passport the other day, just to make sure they're all valid. And I've noticed where you have to. Where it's all filled in with the name, nationality, nationality, etcetera. It's got it in English and in French. And I'm just wondering why the requirement for French or any other language. Where does it have it in French? Whereabouts is it in French? I haven't looked. I need to dig it out, actually. I'm flying to Ireland tomorrow. Thanks for the reminder, actually. No worries. Where it says name, it says name Nom. And then it's got my name underneath it. Where it says nationality, it's got nationality. And then the french equivalent. No, you're right, yeah. Why. Why French? And if there was a reason for it back in the day, why is it still on the now? I've never so understood that. No, I mean, I'm thinking about the norman conquest. I'm wondering whether the origins of the royal family. I mean, origins of. But that can't be it, can it? Or just. No, I've got. I've got absolutely no idea. Why does our possibilities. I mean, crikey. I'll tell you what, when Nigel Farage finds out about this, it's going to be hell to pay. He won't be happier. So they've got what? They've got French on a british passport. That's absolutely outrageous. I'm sure there was a reason. There must be a reason. I'm with you now. I'm really clear. That is a really lovely example of a question that I can't quite believe has never come up before, because that's an absolutely brilliant question about something myself for the first time last week, and I thought, I won't research it, I'm gonna ring in mystery. I want to see what happens. That's what we're here for, Imran. Thank you. Thank you. I love that. Why is there French on good british passports, which are finally the correct colour, although there's some dispute over whether that is actually black or blue. Coming up to 12:15. I'll tell you what I'll do quickly. I think, if I may, I'll just talk you quickly through exactly what's gone on with Lord Guy or what expert opinion seems to suggest has happened here, because it is not immediately clear. It looks like chinese steel tariffs. There were actually. I need to double check before I explain it to you. 1215 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 60 minutes after twelve. No, I have got it. I do understand it, actually. Or what I think the most informed expert opinion is on this resignation by Lord Geith with reference to the World Trade Organization. So, last year, the Independent Trade Remedies Authority recommended that the UK remove a number of safeguard tariffs on chinese steel, presumably to align with World Trade Organisation requirements. This led to the steel industry kicking off because it's been on its knees for a while and some emergency legislation was introduced which allowed the Department of Trade to overrule the Trade Remedies Authority, which had found no legal justification for retaining the tariffs. Okay, they were extended for a year and that expires at the end of this month. So Lord Geith would have been asked essentially to advise on the legality or otherwise of doing so. It seems likely that the UK will continue to apply the tariffs on chinese steel again against the recommendations of the Trade Remedies Authority, but it will not have any legal justification to do so and so sort of deliberately, if you like. Doing something with without any legal justification would appear to constitute a breach of the ministerial code. It all goes back to Donald Trump's trade war with a side order of Brexit, of course, because it would appear now that World Trade Organization rules are bad. And you'll remember that in the run up to leaving the European Union, an awful lot of people who understand precisely nothing about exactly everything, were adamant that living under World Trade Organisation rules without any trade deal with our biggest trading partner would be absolutely hunky dory. Absolutely fine. So there it is. And I'm grateful to Sam Lowe, who's a senior visiting research fellow at King's, for that analysis, which I have done my best to convey to you. Back to mystery hour. 18 minutes after twelve is the time Mark is in Telford. Mark. Question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. So all the landmasses, well, the vast majority of the landmasses of the world, all appear to be wider at the top and the north and then taper off and get narrower to the south. So North America, South America, Greenland, Africa, Asia, tapers into India. The only one I can think of doesn't is Europe and Australia. I was wondering if anybody knew why. Yeah. Are you sure about this? South America is an absolute humdinger. I mean, you've got that Brazil big at the top, Argentina the sort of bottom spine of it. I don't know, if you turned Greenland upside down, it would look that different from. Okay, yeah, but Greenland isn't that large, is it? No. Australia is. Is not part of what you describe. Africa does. North America does. Africa's kind of connected to Europe. It does, really. I mean, you've got Mexico coming out the bottom of America, which makes it look like it's tapering. But going east from Mexico, you've got a relatively flat bottom. Where. And, you know, all of those little islands between Canada and Greenland, you could describe them as a tapering, I don't know, India. Thinner at the bottom. Maybe it's the way the human eye works and we're drawn to the. Or maybe it's the scale of the maps, I'm not sure. But when you look at the world map. Yeah. You look at Algeria and Libya. If you turned Africa upside down, it would look as if Algeria. Well, no, it's got a broader bottom. I mean, it's a fascinating question. I'm rubbish at geography, I'm having to look at a map to do any of this. I wouldn't have known what was up and what was down otherwise. But I'll put the question on the board with the caveat that it might not actually be a true premise for the question. Okay, thank you, but no, why'd you want to know? Oh, I just know that at one time there was one large landmass, Pangaea, which we call Pangaea, and then it broke up and so the answer might involve tectonic plates or something like that. It's, it's. Yeah, it looks more sensible. Your question on the map, that is sort of ovoid, you know, the one that's like the unfolded globe as opposed to the flat map. So maybe. Anyway, I'll put it on board. I hope we get you a nice answer. That's a lovely question. Thank you. No, thank you. And it's allowed me to sort of just remind myself how absolutely appalling my geography is. That's quite breathtaking. At risk of going full Alan Partridge, I was about to say something like, God, who would have thought Africa was there? 21 minutes after twelve is the time Leo is in Hackney. Leo, question or answer? Question. James, carry on. From my eight year old. She asked me how come that we are able to have a conversation with ourselves in our head. Crikey. I mean, that's either very easy to answer or incredibly complicated and I'm not entirely sure which. Well, you know, it was bedtime. Last question of the night, I attempted an answer and started bubbling like our prime minister saying nothing. And then I tried. I tried with the, you know, our. Our hair is connected to the universe, but at the end I just said, I can't. I can't explain it to you. But what is. I mean, what. What's the source of her confusion? I mean, because really, it's only like. It's like talking without opening your mouth. I can't. I don't see it as being particularly mysterious. It's just. It's. I guess. I guess because she's been doing a lot of theater lately. Yes. And she was probably rehearsing her playing on her head. I really don't know what was going on at that time. No, I know. I'm just trying to pin down what the answer would look like. Because it's not. I mean, it is she asking, how can I put it to her? Yeah. Without. Without. How can Leo explain to his eight year old why they have conversations in their head? Yes. Okay. I mean, fingers crossed, mate, on this one, because. I don't know. We'll try someone. Well, you never know. It might be an area of academia that means someone can actually provide a really easy answer. I love that. Great questions this week. Thank you, Leo. So we're looking for the conversations in your own head. Why can we have conversations in your own head? And it needs to be explained in a way that Leo can then adopt for his eight year old. Was it Mark who asked about the countries being? Why do continents appear to taper off as they head downwards? Why does the passport, the british passport, contain french, of all things? Why do mosquitoes find some humans considerably more appetizing than others? When a gull swallows a puffin, how does the puffin die? And I think I went all in on the breaking news one. So that's at least one person who won't be winning the mystery out ball game, because it was me that answered that question. Alex is in Fulham. Alex, question or answer? Hello, James. Long time listener, first time caller. Love the show and the books. So my question is, why is it that you can remember the music in some songs but not the lyrics? Or vice versa? So, like, the lyrics but not the actual music? So it's about musical memory? In a way, I guess. I mean, is this gonna be an objective answer? Because I'm always struck by how different everybody is in these sort of fields. In the same way that some people can sing in tune and some people can't. Some people have perfect recall. Yeah. It's just. It seems a bit weird to me because I can't record music ever. I can never recall music. Even the song that I think I know inside out, if I tried to do it unaccompanied, you won't recognize the tune at all. Yeah. And you seem to, like, know it better when you have the song kind of playing in the background, you can just remember it, but it's like, you know, surely it's all just sound, right? Yeah. But then someone's. So if I tried now to hum to you, let's say, stone roses. If I tried to. Do I want to be adored by the stone roses? That's not even close. But happy birthday to you that's really easy. So the answer might be contained in those two examples, in that some tunes, for technical musical reasons, lend themselves to ease of recall. And the same with lyrics. I mean, it's like poems. It's like you try to learn a poem, tumty tumpty tum. Poems are much easier to remember than complicated blank verse, aren't they? I suppose so. It's just like the actual instrumental can be so, like, easy to, like. I don't know, it just sticks in your ear. Yeah. I think that, like, happy birthday being probably the best example of the most easy to remember tune than any of us ever encounter. All right, so how are we going to phrase the question? We might have to leave lyrics out of it. So why are some tunes easier to remember than others? Yeah, I suppose I like that. I mean, we get a side order of lyrics, we get a side order of lyrics, but we'll focus first on the main course of the music. Thank you, Alex. Why are some tunes easier to remember than others? It's a really good question, that. And my apologies to Ian Brown and John Squire, and indeed Manny and Rennie, if they're listening, for my appalling rendition there, of one of the finest songs of all time. Did I tell you that? I'm 99% sure Ian Brown was at the next table for me in a vegetarian indian restaurant in Hammersmith the other day. I was eating my dozer and I was just thinking to myself that the bloke at the table behind me was either absolutely steeped in their early nineties Manchester culture or pretending to be. And I had no way of knowing. I was trying to read my book while eating the curry. And the accent, the references. I mean, it was almost like a cliche of mancunian cool from that era, that Manchester era. And it didn't cross my mind that it might actually be one of the great figures from that era, albeit as with an awful lot of my heroes from that age. Combination of coronavirus coverage and a couple of other things was rather knocked the gloss off. But then he got up to leave and I'm pretty sure it was actually him. Anyway, I digress, slightly. 1227 is the time. Wendy is in Glasgow. Wendy, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's in relation to the two languages, English and French, on passports. I previously worked in the airport and we were trained by immigration officers for part of our profiling course. And the reason they use two languages is because they were the two sort of widely spoken languages in the world. So if you are. If you are. Go on. If you are, see, from an english speaking country, then your second languages are French. If you're a french speaking country, your second language will be English. If you're another country, like Spain, Italy, Brazil, the government, they'll decide which language will be the second language, either English or French. But why do I need a second language on it, given that I speak my first language fluently? I think the idea is. So if you're going through the leaks of. If you're going through, like, immigration, etc, it's. The chances are hopefully you someday will be able to pick up. I mean, I know. I know this. I'm feeling a little bit flimsy here because I'm going to contradict you on this one. I think it dates back to French being the language of international diplomacy. It's also, I think, from what this hotel does, it also goes back to, I think, as well, from when country. When the UK and France had really large colonies. I will be part of it. But, I mean, that would explain why France is the international language of diplomacy. I think that is the answer, yeah. So, because passport is a french word, I think they sort of invented international diplomacy in this sense. And that's why the sort of ling. Well, it's called a lingua franca, isn't it? The sort of. The language that is a sort of default for everybody would have been French for a very long time. So I think that's the answer. I'm going to give you the round of applause. Okay. But I think. I think it's more to do with diplomatic history and tradition than it is to do with the popularity of respect. It has definitely more to do with that because of the history behind it. Let's do it. Round of applause for Wendy. Thank you. No, thank you, Wendy. Nicely done. And don't tell Nige, is all I can think of saying in response to that reminder from Imran that the passport has flipping French on it, of all things. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Still lots of questions in need of answers, but still, of course, time for you to get your question on the board, after Amelia Cox brings you the very latest headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 32 minutes after twelve is the time I'm always keen to take constructive criticism. Tom just tweeted, Lord Geitbomb has just dropped and you and Alex are humming happy birthday on the radio. Where is Theo Usherwood? I'm pretty sure we've covered it, mate. I don't know whether you're listening on delay or something like that, or whether you've only just got up, but I'm pretty sure we've done chapter and verse, including the explanation of the role of steel tariffs playing in proceedings which haven't actually been reported or properly explained in the context of either letter. But if there are further developments and more news, I'm sure Theo will come cartwheeling into the studio imminently. 1232 is the time. And I was rather enjoying that little musical interlude when Alex and I started humming happy birthday, albeit from rather different, rather different perspectives. Nina's in St Albans. Nina, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on, Nina. So it's the answer to why mosquitoes find some people tastier than other people. Oh, yes. And I have something called thalassemia trait. I don't know if you've heard of thalassemia. I have not, no. So it was sort of. It's a blood disorder in people that often come from hot countries. My dad's italian, but it's african countries, etcetera as well. And it means that we have less hemoglobin, so we always look anemic when we have a blood test, even though we're not. We have less hemoglobin, less red blood cells. And mosquitoes particularly hate us because we are not as bloody. So that's one reason. But the other reason also is they prefer warmer body temperatures because they're cold blooded creatures, and also they prefer smellier people, but not smelly as determined by us, but smelly according to their standards. Well, well, well. So there's lots of little variables. So you're golden, then, when you're in hot countries, you hardly ever get bitten. I'm golden. I never get bitten, though. And I research this as a teenager because there are downsides to this, obviously. I feel more tired than usual. I have to keep fit, keep the oxygen flowing around my body. And when I was a teenager, very resentful of why I had this thalassemia trait, I did my research and found out there are actually numerous benefits, including found a silver lining, so to speak. Albeit. That's a pretty. Pretty good answer, isn't it? That's pretty. Going to cover it and the other bits as well. Sort of warmth, body temperature, because you have slight differences in that, which are. Mosquito is going to pick on. And pheromones would be the smell, would it? Giving off the smell. Round of applause for Nina. Well, lovely answer. Great work. You've made my day, made my week, made my life. James. Thank you. What can I say, Nina? I'm here to serve. 1234 is the time. Mandy is in Epsom. Mandy, question or answer? Hello? Question. Hello, Mandy? Yes. Right. I just wanted to know why Australians do not have any kind of regional dialects. Considering how far they are from each other. They all kind of speak the same. Do you mean accents or dialects? Meant accents. Did I say Daleks? I think you're wrong. No, I think you are. I think there are different accents in Australia. Indeed there might be. Right. Yeah. Oh, the phone line. The phone lines driving me potty. I don't know what's happened to it. Let's. I'll give you one more chance, but if it goes clicky like that again, I'm going to have to come back to you in a minute. Go on. So I lived there for ten years. Right. And particularly you do meet people that sleep. Oh, that's gone. I thought that was going to happen. It's almost like I'm psychic. We'll try and get an answer for that. Or we'll try and get her back up. But the regional accents, I guess because there's three accents, isn't there, in Australia, that they talk about. But I don't think they're regional. They're more to do with class. Why are they not? Probably because it's quite a new country. So. But then everyone would have. I don't know. Tim's in market harbour. Tim, question or answer? Answer, hopefully. Love the show. Love you and Sheila. Thank you. Listen to you every day. Thank you. You should stick around. He's brilliant. So I am. I think why we talk to ourselves in our heads relates to a book that I read called the Chimp paradox. Don't know if you've ever read that. No, I haven't. Gone. Well, basically, we separate ourselves from animals thousands of years ago in terms of. They only have a basic brain that has fight or flight or shelter or procreate. Sure. Whereas we developed a human brain, which would give us the opportunity to apply logic to the situation. So therefore, say white van man cuts you up on the motorway, your first feeling is flash him, chase after him, you know, have a fight with him. And that's. That's your chimp, that's your basic memory saying, so that's your basic brain saying, fight or flight. Yes, but the human brain takes about 7 seconds longer to kick in and then it says, just let him go, just let him go. There's no point having a crash, no point ruining your day waiting for the AA on the side of the road. Just let him go. He's bound to cause himself a problem later down the line. So it's the basic difference between animals and humans. It's a consequence of evolution. Is this the answer that Leo's daughter is going to be? Was it daughter or son? I can't remember. Is this the answer that Leo's child is going to be looking for? Is that going to work for an eight year old? I think he needs to read the chim paradox. That'd be ridiculous. He wants to do it at bedtime tonight. He hasn't got time to read a book to her. Maybe he could start reading the book to her at nighttime. That would definitely get her off to sleep. Well, I was going to say, I don't know where the last time you were on bedtime duties with an eight year old was, but it's all about the gruffalo these days, mate. Want to be reading the chimp paradox? I say these days. It was when mine were that age, ten years ago. Okay. So having a more sophisticated process for analyzing the world around us, we'd be describing things and thinking. It's thinking. This is why I was uncomfortable with the question, because it's just thinking that she's describing, isn't it? Words in our head is thinking conversation, but you'd have to talk to her about why it's happening. But I was a pretty. I am still a pretty loud guy. And one of my jobs, my boss, got me to read it and it really did change my life because it shows you how other people interact with you and why they're doing what they're doing. And often they're reacting to their chimp, their basic mind, which is, you know, you. You do say something, anything, quite innocently. Yeah. And they will think that you've meant something else and they react badly, but it helps you say, well, they probably didn't mean that they. No, it is like a kind of. It's like a kind of edit button or a pause button and. Which allows you to more effectively process the information around you rather than having a sort of knee jerk response. I'm gonna give you the round of applause on that. Thank you, Tim. Maybe room for an embellishment, but I don't know. 1239 is the time. Mandy is in Epsom. Mandy, question or answer? Oh, hello. Question. You back again? I'm back again. So basically, I'm just saying quickly, in case you get cut off again. But of course it goes wrong. So you challenged me on that in terms of. Politely, though, don't make it sound like I was being like a bear with a sore head. I was only. No, no, I understand. Yes, but you were right to do so because. Yes, indeed, there are some different accents, but they're not regional, so you'll get your educated accent. But that could be somebody in Perth or somebody in Sydney. They'd speak exactly the same. You'd get a bush, kind of what they call bush accent. Crocodile Dundee McDonald. Exactly. And then you've got your general sort of population, but. And then, of course, you've got indigenous. That's another story. Because obviously, the way they speak English might be different again, but your general population. So you do have a kind of random three accents, but they're more to do with socioeconomics than geography, I would say so, yeah. And I don't understand how. That's a brilliant question. I'll try and find out. Thank you very much. I really like. I really like. Is there not the Melbourne people not sound different from Sydney people? Oh, absolutely. No way. No. If you're in a little suburb. Because I did live closely to where there's, like, a big italian population, they might bring a little twang to it. The italian community. Yeah. But that's. That's different again, isn't it? I mean, you know, it is a shrine, isn't it? The. The rural one. The bush. Bush. Australian, they call it strain, I think. Strain, yeah. There you go. Yeah. Got it. That's a brilliant question. That's fine. I mean, there should be true blue or East Beach. I saw, uh, Barry Humphreys on stage last weekend, the one before last. And when he's in his different characters and then his normal accent, he'd be like, whatever you call it, the posh version of Australia when he's in his normal character. I don't know what Dame Edna is, though. The Melbourne housewife. Was she a Melbourne housewife or a Sydney housewife? I can't remember. 1241 is the time. Polly's in Northampton. Polly, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Hello, Polly, hi. Can I just really quickly say I'm quite nervous about this. I've won this question by a lot of people and no one knows the answer, so I thought. I'm going to call in. Okay. Don't be nervous. Don't be nervous. Well, that one about the australian accent is quite hard to follow. We can. I'm an organ donor. We can obviously donate organs, etc after death. My mum's just had a hip replacement and they fitted it with some sort of metal. Yeah, why can we not, so long as they're healthy, donate bones after death as well? Because there's no need. Oh, that's what I know. But maybe before there was metal or something. Maybe before. No, I mean, your mum's new hip is better than having someone else's old one. Yeah. Why do you sound so disappointed? That's. I think that's because I know that. Well, because I wanted it to go on the board. Well, it can't really, because, I mean, it's. It's all. I don't want to sound rude, but it's bloody obvious, isn't it? I thought it was a really good question. Okay, what about? Just because I've answered it doesn't mean it's not a good question. Okay, thanks. Why aren't bones donated after that? Because nobody wants your old bones, Polly. Well, no, it's the short answer. Well, who would? In what circumstances do you mean? You're thinking about a hip replacement operation? Why don't they use someone else's old hip? Because that's already going to be old. It might still be functioning. The person whose hip it was might not have needed a hip replacement, but they're going to be closer to needing a hip replacement than a brand spanking new titanium hip, aren't they? Right. Right. Okay. Well, what about then? If it's just a normal, a terrible break that can't be fixed with putting in metal, so, like a really bad fracture that they have surgeries and all that sort of stuff, that's not fixing it. Stick an arm bone in there. This is not. This isn't like a jigsaw puzzle. This is. The arm bone that you're replacing will be. Will be very, very, very closely calibrated with the rest of the bones. The idea that someone, some random person who's recently passed away having exactly the right size bone for your arm as opposed to machine tooling it or. But no, Polly, it's not. It's not, however much you wriggle. I'm not getting angry. I dare you. Suggest. No, you hate it. I don't. I don't hate it. I just. The longer it goes on, the more frustrated I am going to become, I can. I can tell you. So I think I'll just take the round of applause now. Thank you. If I'm wrong, I'm wrong. Someone will tell me that I'm wrong, but I don't. I can't. I don't think there's going to be a better answer than. Nobody wants anybody else's old bones. On this occasion. It may be, I don't know, Frankenstein, possibly. Doctor Frankenstein, maybe. Thank you, Polly. Linda, is this is made up now, after I made such a mess of Kakugberi yesterday, I'm gonna have to have a crack at this one. Culty braggin yeah. There we go. Question or answer, Linda? It's an answer from a triple Aussie. Oh, fantastic. I'm going to start lapsing into an australian accent now, and I'm not intending to, but it's almost contagious, isn't it? Go on. What have we. That's all right. Give it a go. Yeah. It's fairly boring, really. I think we just haven't been around long enough. So that's why we've got, like you say, we've got regional dialect. You can hear words the way people say certain words or the words that they use that could let you know, give you an idea of where they come from. Like in Adelaide, they tend to be more. So that they say dance and France and things like that. Okay, but Melbourne tend to say. They'll say Melbourne. We don't say Melbourne or that it's Melbourne. Whereas, you know, up in Sydney and other areas, they might say a bit more Melbourne, but there's no. So. So it is. It is just the population being relatively young in the historical sense, because accents, there's all sorts of theories as to how they develop, but it. Things like, if you're in an industrial area, then the oxygen, you know, the fact that there's a lot of smog around. This is one of the theories behind the black country accent, because everybody's nose is blocked all the time with all the smog and stuff going on and. Yeah, it's the same with the australian accent, because there's a. There's a theory. Well, I don't know if it's my theory, if I read it, but there's a theory that, you know, they were all talking very, you know, very british when they arrived in Australia, but of course, it's so sunny there that everyone started squinting. So if you try speaking with a british accent and squint, you suddenly found Australians. Oh, that's a fantastic theory. I love it. Blimey. So that's the easiest way. If you want to put on an australian accent, just squeak. And then what do they say about, if you do an irish accent while you're holding your nose? It'll sound like an American as well, or something. But there is. There is a sort of tight. A facial. There's a facial tightness to the australian accent, isn't there, Linda? Yeah, this is true. Yeah. But now that you're in Scotland, where it's not so hot, do you find that your accent is diluting slightly as your face relaxes? Do you know, weirdly, I've been here for 15 years and people still obviously just ask me where I came from. It's no different. It's just changed. And they laugh if I try to put on a scottish accent. So we've got white collar, blue collar and country going on, really? Pretty much, yeah. And Queensland. Queensland's a bit of a thing. Like, you know, you can sometimes guess Queensland, but that's about it, because they do tend to be a little bit more broad up there. But I'm probably gonna get. I'm probably gonna get roasted by. You've been very diplomatic. You've been very diplomatic. I love it. What can I tell you that David's from Looney Ponds in Melbourne? From where? Looney Pond. That's. Of course she is. And that is. Is that quite a genteel area? That's. Oh, no, I wouldn't say that. I think. I think she was a bit of a. She liked a bit of a hyacinth bouquet. I was about to say she's something of a social climber. Poor old Norm. Thank you, Linda. That was lovely stuff. Round of applause. No worries. There we go. Just to conclude, just in case anyone was doubting your australian credentials, we're going out on a. No worries. 1247 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1250, and I'm still in need of answers. I'm gonna get rinsed, aren't I? On the bone question. So, Polly, I probably gonna owe you an apology. Apology? That's not very funny, is it? All right, I'm keeping my other rounds of applause, though. James is in Bracknell. Come on, then. Be gentle. James? Yeah. How you doing? Short term listener. I'm australian NFL hip and knee replacement, so I might be able to help you with the Kepler thing. Fantastic. You couldn't make it up, could you? An Australian is coming on after. Love it anyway. Go on, what have you got? So we do use. We do use what's called an allograft. So it comes from a dead person. We use bone, we use ligaments, we use all different types of stuff. And basically what it's going to do is it's going to create a scaffold with the bone. So if you haven't got enough bone after an accident or anything like that, we're going to create a scaffold and then it's going to. The immune cells are going to come in and they're going to repair that defect. Like a grass, basically. Exactly. That's what it's called. It's called a graft. You can do what's called an autograft. That will come from you. So from somewhere around your pelvis, areas that you don't really need. But then if you've got a massive defect, let's say you've smashed your face on the steering wheel or something like that, then you can use different types of bone to sort of fill in that void. Then the immune cells will come in, they irradiate it so that there's no sort of damaging cells in there. And then, yeah, it'll create a scaffold to then refill the bone. That's missing two questions. Number one, how did you end up flogging hip replacements in the UK? In Bracknell, I did it in Australia. I escaped lockdown because we had one of the worst lockdowns in the world in Melbourne, made my way over here and was lucky enough to get a job with a good british company. Fantastic. And secondly, do you speak with broad, general or cultivated australian, do you think? What do you mean? Well, the three main varieties are broad, general and cultivated. I don't know if I know what that means, to be honest. Broad would be like an oka. Okay, so you're not an okay. You don't. You don't sound like an oka, do you? Well, so there is subtle accents. We can tell South Australians especially, they sound a lot more English, but it is very subtle. So perhaps the untrained earth, you wouldn't notice it, but it all sounds the same. It all sounds similar. Yeah. I think you're general. I'd say you were closer to sort of Hugh Jackman, Ian Thorpe, rather than cultivated, which would be Geoffrey Rush. I'll take that. I'll take that. I'm going to give it anyway. You've got a round of applause I can't believe you've come on after the last caller, after the question about australian access to answer. To make me look like a fool. Of course, they do use. But they don't use whole bones. It's. Anyway, sorry, Polly, please accept my apologies. I'm sticking with that gag, even though it's appalling. Thank you, James. Paul's in ashted. Paul. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. So the music question about why is the music more memorable than the words? Because the music is repeated throughout the song. Repetition is one of the pillars of memory, being able to remember something. Of course. Why all the ads in the ad breaks are all the same all the time. And why. Why are some tunes easier to remember than others? Is it the same reason if they use a small number of notes that are repeated, that makes them more memorable? So everyone can remember. He's just a poor boy from a poor family. He's just a poor boy from a poor family, because that's just general repetition, because we've heard it so much. I mean, that's quite a simple tune. And then if you were trying to, like, do complicated sonata or something like that, it would be both more complicated and less repetition. Yes. Qualifications? I like this answer. I do courses on memory technique and train people in how to remember things for revision and presentations and anything you want to remember. How cool. At risk of giving away trade secrets, what's the sort of. Is it the most important thing repetition is? That would be the beginning. The most important thing is visualization. Yes. It's. My namesake, Dominic O'Brien, was a world beater on this, wasn't it? Yes. Yeah. And it's all about visualizing, pouring information into a movie so you can remember it. When I do a hook and tease, Paul, I don't know if you're familiar with the terminology. When I do a hook and tease and I say to people, here's a mystery or here's a game, find out later. And then I always forget, is there anything I can do specifically to improve that part of my broadcasting arsenal? The thing that you're wanting to remember later? Turn it into a tiny little movie in your mind and visualize it on your monitor that's in front of you in the top left hand corner, or wherever it is you go to before you into the show, whenever you look at that point on the screen, you'll run that little movie and go, I've got to tell them about fish cakes or whatever it was, what little gem you had so a bit like there's a new therapy called brain spotting, which. Which focuses slightly on putting things in your brain in relation to a screen or having it. I like that idea, because. So what I'll do is I'll try that tomorrow, but unfortunately, I might not remember. Shall I do it now to remind myself to try it tomorrow, or would that not work? Keep doing it every day. So I'm putting a little film in the top left hand corner of the screen, which is called the hook and tease film. And it's a little dancing animation of some hooks. I don't know what a tease would look like. So it's just lots of hooks and so why not make it a hook and hang on it every day? The topic that it is, you're going to reveal. Baby steps, Paul. Baby steps. I've got. So I've got it there. So tomorrow I'll come into work, I'll power up the old computer, and hopefully at some point, I'll remember that. I'm going to do the experiment on hooks and teases using Paul's advice. Absolutely. Look top left of your screen and you'll see it. And actually looking. Looking up and to the left actually helps you remember stuff anyway. So whenever you're trying to think of something to remember, look up into the left and increase your chances of remembering. This is amazing stuff, Keith, you're not allowed to remind me. All right, I'm going to do this properly in laboratory conditions. Round of applause for Paul, please. Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Answer to your continence? Question. Yes. So I'm not completely convinced a definitive answer is available for this. No, me neither. So, plate tectonics. You mentioned plate tectonics. Now, when the supercontinent existed, the bottom of South America, the bottom of Africa and the bottom of India were all joined together. So if you think about, like, the. The segments of an orange, that's kind of how the bottom of that part of the continent existed and it butted up against what is the landmass of Antarctica. Now, when they all broke away, they all kind of moved in their different directions, and I think that's the reason why those three continents have got that shape. The top of South America actually butted into the, I think, the crook of the Gulf of Mexico, which is why you've now got that finger of Mexico that comes down again. And anything else is probably coincident. Now, mountain chains, obviously, I'm gonna. I'm gonna run out of time. I'm gonna run out of time. I want to give you a round of applause. Qualifications? Cartography. Degree. How many have you got? Now you do your almost every week. This is a mark of your brilliance, but also of the quality of the questions. I like to start taking records for this. This will be six today. Professor Hal on soon to find out how many he's got, if he's kept counting. I think you've got a way to go, though, before you catch up with Professor Hal. You've got another one. Here it is. And I'd be a contender for a ball game if I haven't given you one already. But I'm going to give it to Mitch because he's just back from his honeymoon. Mitch with the mosquito question. It could have been almost anyone this week. Absolutely first class mystery album. But Mitch is the only one who is recently returned from honeymoon. And as we all know, they'll be looking for something new to do in the evening. Soon as the. That's the reality set as the marriage develops. So it's going to be a mystery out board game. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow from tennis. That was the rudest joke I've ever told on the radio without being rude. Sheila Fogarty. Was it rude? That was all right. That was okay. Thanks.