Coat and dog tails

Three minutes after twelve is the time, and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is upon us increasingly feels, doesn't it, as if every hour is mystery at the moment. Some of the confusions and questions that we've addressed together, but this is slightly different in that you have a pretty much stone cold guarantee of achieving some form of satisfaction between now and 01:00. I make you two promises. Ordinarily. The first is that you will know more by 01:00 than you do now. The second is that if you are that you will probably have a laugh. Well, I say it's a guarantee. Yeah, go on. I'll give you a guarantee as well. You'll have at least one laugh out loud moment between now and 01:00 as well. I can't promise that the knowledge you accrue will be in any way useful to you, or that you'll be in any way grateful for it, or even that you'll remember any of it by 01:10. But you will have. More. Briefly. First of all, though, we need to get some questions on the board, which means you ring me with a question, a who or why, a what, a where, a when or wherefore or whence, and even the occasional whither. The point is this. Why do we do that? What's that about? Where does that come from? When you do that, why does that transpire? Dare to dare. You know, you've seen it in newspapers, magazines. If you're new to this, you've seen it somewhere else. It's just more fun when we do it. And more immediate. There are only two rules for you to observe, one of which you can control, the other of which you can't. Really. First is, don't be dull. Never be dull, never be boring. Seriously, don't ring me to ask about indicators on cars and mysterious exit on roundabouts. Anything car related is almost always too boring for mystery hour. As a general rule of thumb, although there are exceptions to this rule, as a general rule of thumb, if you think you're the only person that's going to be interested in the answer, don't ask the question. All right? It gets so, so busy and I get so many complaints from people who can't get through, and it's partly because Caroline and Rosie are working their fingers to the bone on the switchboards, trying to deal with the people who've already rung in. But anyway, that's enough about that. I don't want to sound ungrateful. And the other thing is repetition. Which you can slightly guard against by going to LBC dot co dot UK comma and consulting our capacious and often very funny archive of mystery hour. It's been running for years now. I dread to think how many, actually. So that's one way of finding out whether the question you've got in mind has been asked before, but otherwise we'll just rely upon my increasingly shot to pieces memory. And if I can remember answering it, then we won't take it as a question. Unfortunately, quite often I have swiss cheese holes in my recall and someone else will ring in to answer a question. And when I ask them what their qualifications are, they say, I heard it on mystery hour last year, so there is always that danger. And that, of course, means I should explain what qualifications are. If you ring in to answer a question that somebody else has asked, I will ask you what your qualifications are and you will tell me. And it doesn't have to be, you know, I mean, some of our most regular contributors are university professors, but it's equally valid to say, oh, I know that because I saw it on David Attenborough last week, or I saw it on MythBusters, or I saw it on the telly last night. Do you see what I mean? The qualification just means, how do you know that thing? You know, it has nothing to do with academic qualifications or whether or not you've passed your cycling proficiency or got bag of gymnastics award. Three six after twelve. Should we crack on? I think we should. I shall remind you of the phone number whenever I have a phone line free. I current. No, I don't. Let's start in Westminster. Bill, is there. Bill, question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please. Carry on, Bill. So why is it that a son born to mum and dad and named after the father will be referred to as junior, but a girl named after her mother won't be referred to as junior? Really? I mean, you can refer to her as junior if you want. That's a weird question, Bill. How on earth did you put Bill through? Who was it? Who put Bill through? Was it Rosie or Caroline? Who put him through? Oi. Who put Bill through? Don't blame them. You know what just gave me a lesson in chivalry, Bill. You're absolutely right. So if I had named my daughter after my wife, I could call her misses O'Brien Junior if I wanted to. Yeah, you can call it what you want, but why is it that they're not? Because. Can you name any girls that are referred to as junior or senior? I can't name any girls who are named after their mum, mate, I'm sure there must be. Well, go on, then. Um. Can I make it 2017, mate, of course you can. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Come on. Fair question. Well, it's to do with the estate, isn't it? That's what I think. I think it's new, like inheritance and legacy, but I don't. I don't know that. And I. I haven't even tried looking up because I don't know where it even begin. But, um, you know, I can't think of anyone famous or anyone in my life that's called, you know, Casey Junior or. No. But I can't think of anyone who's named the same as their mum, though, either. It's about passing on the family name, isn't it? So you generally in an anglo saxon family. And I say that because in Spain and places like that, the mother's name gets passed on, doesn't it? But I just don't think it's a thing. I don't know that this. I don't know that there's an answer to it, because it's a question that doesn't. It makes sense, but it's. It's not. I don't think it's a deliberate. I don't think it's happened for a reason other than the. It just doesn't. Yeah, the head of the family passes on. Americans do it a lot, but they go for the name, don't they? There was a kid at school who was called William something III. I always envied him because we've been James and sheamuses for as long as any O'Brien's can remember, but we've never counted. I could quite conceivably be James O'Brien XII, which just gives me a slightly air of gravitas that's otherwise lacking from my nomenclature. I will put the question on the list for you, Bill. Thank you, James. But don't be offended if nothing happens. I'm certain it will. Your listeners are all geniuses. That's very true. And thank you for reminding me not to. Not to blame, actually. Who else am I going to blame? Hassan is in slough. Hassan. Question or answer? Question, please carry on. Right. I'm working in Hounslow at the moment, very near Heathrow airport. Oh. Watching the plane land, trying to land through storm. Doris. And all of them are tipping up and down or swaying side to side. Careful, there'll be people getting ready to go on their holidays. Sorry, no. And that sort of begs the question, I would have thought these planes would have been diverted, but the question is, how strong do winds have to be in order for the planes to be diverted? I like that. That's a really. Because I'm slightly surprised to learn, because you heard Joanne's travel bulletin half an hour ago and she was saying that there's lots of problems because of storm Doris on the roads and what have you. But not you telling us. Do we know for a fact that they haven't done anything at Heathrow? Or are you just doing this on the evidence of your own eyes, Hassan? Evidence of my own eyes. And planes are flying above and I put my door open so you can actually hear them landing as well. So one will come through very, very soon. Yeah. So as I drive, I can feel the winds bumping on my car. Planes, obviously, without any resistance, they're going to feel that even more so. I would have thought that would have been quite concerning. And they would have been diverted. On a scale of one to ten, what's the wobbliest plane you've seen today? I'd say, well, ten is like literally getting blown out of the sky and one is obviously no wobble at all. I'd say seven. Seven, eight. Really? Yeah. Very wobbly. Very, very wobbly, yeah. So tipping. So wings tipping up and down and then swaying side to side. Right, you're on. How much wind must the wind blow before planes aren't allowed to fly? How windy must it be? I like that. And is it going to be on the Beaufort scale or is it going to be a different variable, saying great stuff? Is that your mystery, our debut, Hassan? No, the last question I asked was about two years ago about what do vegetarians feed their pets? And I answered two questions as well, which I received a round of applause because I know you normally ring me on the politics stuff. I hope all my callers are keeping capacious records of their contributions to the programme, lest I ever inquire after their providence. A very good example to us all set there by Hassan. 1211 is the time Sadiq is in Hackney. Question or answer? Sadiq questions is. I can't believe I got free, you know. Well, you have a promise. It's really me. What have you got for me, basically, to ask, like, can you tell someone's race or ethnicity by. By their voice on the phone? What, me personally? Well, like, generally everyone. That's that, mate. This is really. You've put me in an impossible situation because you come on air really excited to have got through, and then you ask one of the worst questions in history. No, no, no. Let me tell you the reason why. This guy called Ragam Boardman was a black guy. Yes. Only to watch him on tv. And it was a white guy and I was just thrown off by it. So I thought, okay, it's like, can you tell people's race by their voice? By the way we had, you know, weirdly, we had the same cock. He did that human song, didn't he? Yeah, he's a cracking artist. My girls and I had the same conversation in the car at the weekend when we were listening to it, because my eldest said, oh, I saw him on television and he's white. And she thought, like you had just from the voice that he was black. But that's got nothing to do with. I mean, just think about it, mate, really. I thought that because maybe there's a tone. No, there's a sort of street patois, isn't there? Which. Which I suppose has its origins in the West Indies, or because the word patois does and that kind of way of talking. I remember when we did a topic on this and quite a few mums rang up to tell me that their kids taught like that at school, but when they come home, they're not allowed to, so they've actually got two voices. So it's all like, aye, is this, and I is that, and I is sort of Ali D. And then when they come home, it's, hello, mommy, can I have three fish fingers for my tea, please? And that kind of. But the idea of an ethnicity being indicated, you can tell a regional accent, whether it's international or national. But you know right from your name, I presume that you are asian. You're wrong. There you go. You see, from your voice, I presume that you are black. You're right. So now say after me. Ready? Say, air hair lair. There. There. Now put it all together. Air hair lair. There. Now you sound like an Etonian. You sound like Boris Johnson. So the answer to your question is no. Round of applause for me. My day goes to the Ethan is in Shenley. Ethan, question or answer? Question. James, can you tell somebody's star sign by their voice? I don't know. Go on. No, you can't. You're a Capricorn. Right, what's your question? Listen, listen. My question is, as a dog owner, for the last three years, I've noticed that three parts of my dog tail, dog pail, gives off a lot of emotions. It tells me what she's feeling and everything. It's very, very, very. It's like a gay dog sort of thing, you know, and. But the thing is, working dogs have a pale car. You're not supposed to do that anymore, are you? Does it still happen? It still happens. And I wonder why. And what the. Why? Why is it done? So that there must be a reason for it, obviously. Is there a balance? Are they losing the ability to communicate with the dogs? What's the benefit? So really, that's my complex question of the day. But, yeah, well, I mean, I can only focus on one bit of it. So why do they do it? Well, I thought, well, why? Yeah, why they do when they're losing so much ability to read the dog emotions. Isn't it just because the tail can get caught enough gate or it can get caught in? I mean, if they're really working hard, it could just. I don't know, I can't take a round of applause for that. But it is, it's, yeah, docking, they call it. I thought it had been made illegal, I thought. Or is that just. I recently visited a farm and I saw some working dogs who had their own heated house, basically. They had a heated house, heated outside home, you know, sort of shed come summer house or whatever, that's their home and they're working dogs. And regardless of their breed, a lot of them were docked and so it was multi breed wide. It wasn't because of a specific breed and it just raised the question of why. Yeah, I like it. Okay, you're on. We'll get you. We'll get you an answer to that. Zero. 345-606-0973 bill, mate, you had such an open goal when I died back. I'm just double checking on this because sometimes monarchs are christened with one name and then they rule with another. But when I said, can you think of a woman who was named after her mother, you could have said the queen. Back to, what was that, Bill? The very first question of all. So why don't women ever have junior after their name, even when. Why isn't the queen known as Liz Junior? How much wind, how windy does it have to be before the plane get grounded at Heathrow? Because Hassan can see them and they're blowing all over the shop. And I took a round of applause for Siddiq's rather brilliant question, and why do they dock dogs tails? What's the sort of historical rationale for it? Justification for it? 1216 is the time. This is LBC Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 21 minutes after twelve is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the questions currently in need of answers include the why do females named after their mothers never have the suffix junior applied to their names. So Mary Shelley, I'm told, was named after her mother, Mary Shelley, the author of Frankenstein, but she was not known as Mary Junior, as far as I know. Similarly, Elizabeth Windsor was named after her mother, whose maiden name was Bowes Lyon. So Elizabeth Bowes Lyon, Elizabeth the Queen, never known as Elizabeth Junior. I don't think. Why? It might not have an answer, but it's a better question than I gave Bill credit for when he asked it, so I'm leaving it on the board. How Windy does it have to be? Someone must know this. I might ask Joanne during the travel news, if I have to. How Windy does it have to be before the plane aren't allowed to fly? What's the actual bar? The criteria, the threshold. There you go. I got there in the end. And why do working dogs have their tails docked? Plus I'm going to let Ethan have a supplementary on that because I am like him. I'm a relatively recent dog owner and I can't quite imagine how my little cavapoo would tell me what she was thinking if she couldn't wag her tail. So what impact do we know if it has any impact on the dogs? Eve is in Hammersmith. Question or answer? Eve. Hi, Dave. Hello, Eve. Basically, I've got a question. I just wanted to know why in the UK is 18 the legal age to be an adult? Is it like a biological thing or is it a socially constructed thing? Because in other countries, I know it's different. So I was a bit, like, constant. Yeah. Just basically socially constructed. Politicians decided. Is there, like. Is there a historical justification for it begging 18? I don't think there is. I suppose it's linked to the way our school system works as well. The fact that the, you know, the number of years that you spend at school by law can extend, takes you up to 18, but in other countries, America, you can't buy booze until you're 21, even though you left school at a similar age. It's just politically decided, is it not anything to do with, like, biological, like biology, like the brain? Well, how old are you? I'm 23. And how different are you now from when you were 22? Not that much. And what fundamental biological change did you undergo on the night before your 18th birthday? I don't know, but I just feel like maybe at a certain age, people become more mature. I'm 45 and I'm still waiting. I don't know. I think I'll leave it on the board. Why is 18 in the age of adulthood in the UK? But of course, you can get married at 16 with your parents permission, so even that's quite a movable feast. I'm pretty sure it's just because politicians have decided that that is a reasonable age at which to allow certain freedoms that you don't enjoy until you reach that age. But if there's a more complicated. There might be a religious or a historical backdrop to it that you'd like to hear, so I'll leave it on the board. I'm not going to take the round of applause myself, because that would be greedy. I really love your show. Me and my mum, we're obsessed with your show. Well, I might bump into you on King street sometime soon. Be sure to say hello. Will do. No, thank you. What's your mum's name? My mom's called June. Thank you, June. You seem to be doing an excellent job there, June. Keep it up. 24 minutes after twelve is the time. Andy is in Ashford. Andy, question or answer? I've got an answer. Bring it on. It's for the landing of the planes. How windy can it be? Yes. Right. When each plane is built for the very first time by, you know, Airbus or Boeing, they have to go and undergo a number of tests and one of them is a maximum crosswind test, they call it. So they'll be rated up until like, a maximum wind and then that's it. That has been decided. And they can't go above that. That's. And what is it? What is the maximum wind? It all depends on the size of the aircraft. For example, a small little plan you take. I think that the problem is that the questioner probably knew that. Well, because you're not going to have the same rule for a one seated glider. You can't. No, of course, as you are for a. So we probably knew that there's a different criteria for each plane. We want to know what the kind of. Just for you, for your average jumbo jet, if you will, how windy does it have to be before they're not allowed to take off? 43 miles an hour. Oh, come on. How do you do that? Because if I look. I looked on the Boeing website and you can look at the specifications. The maximum crosswind for a jumbo jet is 38 knots, which go. How long have you been listening to mystery out? A couple of years. Then you must have heard me say that you're not allowed to look stuff up before you answer questions. Well, I knew that. I'm a flight sonic enthusiast, so I knew. I knew the principal. You're not allowed to look stuff up. You should have just lied, Andy. You should have done a Donald Trump and just lied. You should have just said. You should have just said, oh, I've only. It's the first time I've ever listened, James and I would not have gone to Caroline, check his call record, see if he's ever rung me before. I'm going to bust this guy. You should have just lied. I can't give you a round of applause if you've looked it up, which means that someone else can ring in and say, 43 miles an hour, James. And get a round of applause. Oh, Andy. But I have to give an honest answer. You know, I can't just turn around this 2017, mate. You don't have to give honest answers. Come on. Look at the LBC lineup. Lying is rewarded on a scale that has never been seen before in this country. Well, I can tell you nearby, say, 53 miles an hour. How about that? No, you're just making it worse. You look that up as well. No, I didn't let that one up, actually. And that's the. That's the wind speed, is it literally the wind speed? Whatever direction it's blowing in, if it hits that speed, they can't let the planes up. Yes, but also that doesn't count for gusting, obviously, if the speed is rough. Noises, stuff as well. I can't give him. Hang on, wait there a minute, Andy, just talk amongst yourselves. Should we give him a little snatch? All right then, Andy, mate, just. Just take this and be grateful for it. Okay, Steve Allen, what the hell happened there? Well, there you go, there's a first. Are you pleased with that? Is that right? Stop pressing buttons. Come on, you. Got you. Did you not hear your little snatch? I had a little bit, yeah. Well, that's all you're getting. There we go. It's better. Nothing, because everyone else that rings in now. Purely copying me, that, mate. Exactly that. You hang on to that thought. Quite how we ended up with that jingle. Mention it tomorrow as well. He'll say, apparently I made an appearance during James O'Brien's magical hour. I don't know how that happened. That's what we'll be listening to. Is it magical hour or musical hour this week? Do I get my little snap again? So, Andy, why are you still here? Why are you still. I'm doing comedy now. Thanks so much, James. By now you go next time. I don't know, lie. Ian is in air. That sounds rather jolly. Question or answer, Ian? Question. Go on. Why is it that James shirts have tails? So that you can tuck them in. You mean you still tuck yours into your pants? Yeah, well, into my trousers, no. But the only thought I had was keeping your bumble on. Frustrating. Okay, I'm pretty sure it's not that sure. My. Well, this has all gone a bit surreal. I'm going to give myself a round of applause. Another Ian. This one's in red. Question or answer, Ian? That was odd. The answer. Just imagine if you turned the radio on, like, literally a minute ago, you're not quite sure what mystery air is. You've heard about this bloke banging on about Donald Trump and Brexit all the time, so you've decided to turn the radio. You just heard that fellow up in air say. I thought it might be because it keeps you bum warm when you're on a horse. And now you're here to tell me why we chop tails off dogs. Yeah, well, why we do and why we don't. Yeah, so, right, okay, dog. Dog tail docking is illegal in the UK. As is, I will add, as is ear cropping, as you see some on some dogs, like Dobermans and stuff like that in America. Yes. So it is illegal, okay. Except for a few breeds, which are your working dog. Right. I have a working cocker whose tail is so dry. He's a working cocker, a three quarter crop. Okay? Right. Now, the reason for that is when they're running through brush and they're working heavily, obviously they don't want to get a broken tail, it can cause big complications. So if only. If you're a vet, you are allowed to dock. That's the only exception to docking tails. Only vets are allowed to do it. And it is. It is to avoid injury. It is that simple. And I think. I think also, I think my friend Ricky told me, because he's got what? He's one of the only people in the country that still use his terriers to root out rats. Do they? Sometimes they dock them as well so that the rats can't bite the tail of the dog. Yeah, I mean, I don't know about that one. When I ask you what your qualifications are, Ian, which I'm about to do, do not respond by telling me that you've got a fully functional cocker. All right? What are your qualifications, Ian? Vet told me when I got my new dog. There you go. Round of applause for you. No, it's the news. It's 12:30 Simon Conway is here now with the headlines. Storm mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 1234 is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Yeah, I agree. Actually, this has been a little bit vintage, so we'll get the podcast up and out ASAP after the show today. Remember, you get a free podcast of Mystery Air and you can access it in all the usual places, LBC, dot co dot UK or over iTunes. Yeah, that was good. Mark is in Walthamstone. Mark, question or answer? Jez is in Camberley. Jez, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Good man. Go on. Which one? It's an answer. Well, you've already had it sort of answered. And that is the question about aircraft landing in high wind. Yes. So the previous chat was sort of correct, but it's not to do with the ultimate wind speed, it's to do with something called cross wind or crosswind component. I don't ring. I just want to say to the other fella, don't ring me back and tell me that you did tell me this, because I believe you. I think I did hear you mention that, but I'm going to stick with, with Jez on this one. Carry on, Jez. So, for example, Stansted, this morning, I've just finished my shift and we've been landing aircraft 737s, which is our primary aircraft there, and we've been landing them in 46 to 48 knot gusts. Wow. Even though the 738 737 800 rating is 38 knots, because the wind at the moment is about 250 degrees. You've already won. I've got nothing. So are you an air traffic controller? I am, yes. With our Runway at 220 degrees, the crosswind component on a 40 knot gust is about twelve knots. You're showing off now. So the answer is, and there's another bit to that as well, is the operators. So the airlines, Ryanair, easy, British Airways, will have their own standard operating system. Oh, really? So while the. While the 737 can take a 38 knot, 90 degree crosswind, Ryanair, for example, because they look at it and say, actually, we'd like our passengers to be a bit more comfortable if it's. Their operating procedures are 33 knots, so they're looking at the headwind Runway direction and doing some maths onto what the crosswind component was. We were doing it this morning, looking at our forecast and working out whether Ryanair and easyJet would have a problem landing. I'm just going to consult my colleagues. Is that a rayleota? It's not quite, is it? There'll be. There'd be quite a few. No, I don't know. Come on, mate, you're gonna get a round of applause and just. I think. I mean, we've had a few calls from traffic controllers over the years. It's not that. Yeah. If you built planes, we'd have given. If you designed planes. All right, so take this jazz with my compliments. Thank you very much, James. Beautifully played, beautifully played. Let's go next to Jake, who's in file. Jake, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. Sir, do penguins have knees? Because I've never seen one bend do penguin. Well, no, they don't. Don't they know that? Yeah. How do you know that? Um. I'll just do. No, no, no. I'm gonna need better. How would they. They've got one joint, so you could. It's up to you whether you call it an ankle or a knee. Is it actually a knee? No, it's an ankle. It's an ankle. Do you know why? I kind of went off on one there. Jake, can I level with you, mate? Have you got time for this? Because I was about to pooh pooh your question, because there's that classic one about, why don't penguins feet freeze? And I get a little bit frustrated with questions coming round too often and stuff like that. But then I thought, be polite. Jake has paid you the compliment of calling in. He clearly has a valid question. So what I did there, if conversation was a ball, you threw it to me. I was going to drop it, but I did a bit of keepy uppy instead and now I'm kind of throwing it back. I think that's a valid question, actually. Why do you want to know? I don't know. I was laying in bed, kept me awake all night and I just thought, do penguins have knees? Penguins have knees. I've never seen one do yoga. No, stop it with the jokes. That also put me off your question slightly. I'm not going to lie to you, Jake. Sorry. I shall find. I shall find out for you. Do penguins have knees? Go. Let's do it. Margaret County Kerry. Oh, hello. Hello. Carry on, Margaret. We used to have it at 21 years of age. Coming of age. I've never met you before. We certainly did not. You haven't met me before now. Well, I'm quite aware, Wayne, we used to have, what, at 21 years of age, Margaret? Pardon? What did we used to have at 21 years of age? Voting. Pardon? Coming of age? 21. Oh, so adulthood. This is going back to Eve's question about adulthood. That's it. Yes. Right. Yes. Well, it used to be 21. Yes. After the war finished, people were complaining that we could send our lads to war at 18 years of age. They could be killed, but they couldn't vote until they were 21, so that's why they changed it. And that is. I mean, actually, you've answered more questions than even asked, because the notion of majority adulthood is the franchising. It's the age at which you're allowed to vote rather than the age at which you're allowed to marry. So you become a member, a member of the democracy in the fullest sense, and it is 18. It is arbitrary, it is just decided by politicians. But it was, you're quite right, a response to a campaign pointing out that it's all very well to be able to lay down your life for your country, so you're not allowed to vote for the politicians that send you to war in the first place. What are your questions? What are your qualifications, Margaret? Well, I'm 85 years of age. That's my only qualifications. I remember it. Can't say fairer than that. How long have you lived in Kerry? About 16 years. Did you retired there, did you? I'm retired, yeah. Works out nicely, is it Kerry? Not lovely part of the world. Oh, I love it. I love it. I bet you do. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Margaret. God bless you. Waleed is in Nottingham. Walid, question or answer? Answer, James to the junior one. Carry on. I don't want to risk the swathes of feminist listeners to your program, but I think it's got to do with the fact. Well, it has got some to do with lineage and passing on the family name. And lineage is historically, has always been male dominated and we kind of danced around that with Bill when he asked the question. But I've realized another element of it, which is in anglo saxon tradition, you pass on the surname, don't you? So even if, like, the queen was named after her mum, she can't be Elizabeth Windsor junior because her mum's born Elizabeth Bowes Lyon. So it's about passing on the lineage, but also against a backdrop of the surname being determined by the father, not by the mother. Indeed, yeah. I think going back to victorian times, isn't that why we have a number of variants on conventional names, like Richards, you have Dick and all those names, because within that house they can't call each other, you know, Richard the first or Richard II. They'll obviously give each other pseudonyms. But I don't know why not. I don't know what this country's coming to. I should expect to be addressed as James the fourth henceforth. Yeah, you might be right. I mean, part of it will be nicknames, but, you know, growing up, says oddly, the next call is a Jamie. There's never any Jamies in my family. But growing up, my dad was Jim and I was James. And then when I got to school, I became a Jim and my dad, oddly became. When he changed newspapers, he went back to being a James. And you're right, it did distinguish between us in the house. Including with mail, actually, including with letters and stuff like that. Qualifications. Walid. I am an Arab. An Arab is. Lineage is very important in my culture. Covering a lot of ground there. My friend Jamie is in south Woodford. Jamie, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Jamie. I have a question about beer. What do you want to know? I want to know why when I order a pint of real ale out of the cask in the pub, it comes out as quite smooth. But the exact same product from a bottle from the supermarket is quite fizzy, yet it's the same ingredients. Is it? Yep. Something happens in the bottle that doesn't happen in the cask. You make it seem like if you have a doom bar or an ESB, you know, the fuller's bale. I don't know, I'm not familiar with both of them. The fuller's brewery is. I can smell it, actually, from my house on brewing day. It's an amazing sort of biscuity, hoppy aroma. It's quite beautiful, but I don't know that I recognize. I mean, you get fizz when you get it out of the tap. And is it slightly fizzier when it comes out of the bottle? Definitely. In fact, you might have a good excuse to go and try this today. Pint of ale out of a cask is fairly smooth. There's a slight effervescence, but out of a bottle, it's noticeably fizzy. So what you're asking is, why don't they just put the stuff out of the cask into a bottle? And if they do do that, how come it's fizzier by the time I drink it than it is when it comes out of the cask? Yeah, it's the same product carbonated. Something happens in the bottle, it doesn't happen in the cast you have. I mean, it's probably just your tone of voice, but it sounds as though you're taking this very seriously. No, I have a smile on my face. I want the answer. Skip all other colors. I want the guy who can answer this one. We'll find out. Why don't penguins have knees? I think we've done bill justice on the junior question. And why does bottled beer have more fizz in it than cask beer, even though the cask bottle beer presumably is bottled from the cask? If you follow Chris Evans and I on Twitter, you know that he's desperate for someone to ask a question, apparently can't ring in and ask it himself. So have a look at his Twitter feed and see if you can squeeze in that question before. Before. Before. 01:00. Because we need to get an answer for it as well. Zero. 345-606-0973 Paul's in Nottingham as well. A lot of calls we're getting from Nottingham today. Question or answer, Paul? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Paul, I'd like to know, is the sun the dinosaurs saw the same size as it is now? Bearing in mind it's like, been burning for millions of years, is he getting bigger or smaller? I quite like that question. Hmm? I quite like that question. It's a sort of massive ball of burning gas. But you presume that there's some sort of variation in the dinosaurs to make it interesting. I don't bring. Don't you see that? I don't think you needed to. You could have just. All right. Okay. Because the dinosaurs might confuse people. Right, well, is the size. The sun always been the same size? Yeah. All right. Yeah. Zero. 345-606-0973 it's 1245. Ross Powell is in the LBC travel center. Thank you. 1249 is the time. Why is beer in the bottle fizzier than the beer in the barrel? Do penguins have knees? Is that it? I think that's it. Is it? We got anything else on the board? Paul is in Hampton court. Paul, question or answer? Arthur James, first time caller. You're very welcome, mate. The reason why beer is fizzier in the can and the bottle is at the brewery, they add more CO2, primarily for the reason that pet bottles, which are plastic bottles, actually lose gas through them over time. And glass bottles, well, what they do, they don't differentiate. They just brew a batch and it's either one of them. Are you sure about this? Because the questioner was, I'll ask you what your qualifications are in a minute and then you'll probably make me feel foolish for pointing out this previously, but the questioner was pretty adamant that they don't add extra CO2. And despite the smile on his face, he did sound very serious and as though he knew his stuff. Well, I spent 15 years in a brewery, in the laboratory, testing the stuff, so I think I'm fairly well qualified. Yeah. So when I said, I'm going to feel foolish when I ask you what your qualifications are. Very. Right. Sorry. That's all right, mate. I saw it coming. It doesn't. It doesn't smart any less. But I did see it coming. I think that. So you spent 15 years testing beer in a laboratory, including. For. What was your job title? Well, various job titles, but the quality assurance analyst. I was also a manager there as well. Just beer. He's all in a brewery. In the brewery, yeah. Yeah. And it was. It was the biggest brewery in Europe, but they've now knocked it down. That's another story. Yeah. I think you're going to take some beating, but stay where you are because you're close to a Rayleigh otter. Except for the fact that Charles is in Stockport is about to have a crack at you, Charles. What's wrong with his answer? Cask condition beer. There's only a small amount of secondary fermentation that takes place. It doesn't really pressurize the cask, so when you pull it off, there's a bit of sparkle, but that's about it. It's not what you call fizzy bottled beers. Even cask, even bottle condition beers, there's a lot more pressure. Carbon dioxide pressure. Nothing to do with the fact it was plastic, because they were like that before they used plastic bottles. So you get more of a fizzy nature to the beer. However, some beers, like brew dogs in bottles, don't have that level of pressurization, so they actually taste more like a cast condition beer. What are your qualifications? I've been a member of the campaign for real ale for about 40 years, Paul. Yeah. What do you reckon? Well, cars, condition biz. He's right. Until I was talking about what they. What they don't call cast condition, which. What I suppose your other caller would call euro fees. Got you. Okay, so you're both right, and I'm not going to make you share, but. But, you know, I don't know. How long have you been listening, Charles, to the program? Oh, how long have you been on air? What? Since 10:00 this morning. I meant. I mean, how many years? Oh, 1520 years. We've only been national for about two. No, that's right. A few years. Few years. All right, so I'm also in glossops, so I think I should really have it. Are you familiar with my fondness for your part of the world? Certainly I'm. Yeah. Because you know what I'm going to do now? I'm lost in the. In the. In the market. That's right. Glossop market. But I'm now going to demonstrate my amazing ability, not only to demonstrate my fondness for Stockport and its environs, but also for beer, by saying to you that Robinson's is the beer of choice in Stockport. You're probably right. It's not my favorite. Very. All right, don't flipping spoil it. Round of applause for Paul and a round of applause for Charles there. You're very welcome. Couple of miles in either direction would have been Boddington's, but we're going all in on the Robinson's. Barry's in Norwood. Barry. Question or answer? Hello. It's an answer. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Afternoon. Oh, yeah, penguins. Penguins have these and they have femurs. All right. And, yeah, they're regular anatomy. It's really interesting. I broke my ankle last month, right. And I've been looking up into it and. And. Yeah. Did you know horses stand on their toe? No, I didn't. Hang on a minute. I'm still. I'm still with the penguins. How do you know that penguins have knees, then? How do you know that? Because they stand up and stand. They remember they sit on their egg. They what? They sit. Yeah, they sit on their egg and they. But they waddle. It doesn't look like they've got a knees. It looks like they've just got two little feet poking out the bottom of their bum. No, they're just. They just short. They just short as me. Can you prove it to me in any way? They've got stand up. Right? And they've got to transfer from mother to father to stand on their knees. Right? So it's standing their egg. Yeah. So they've got a tiptoe and when they tiptoe. I actually watched it on David Attenborough. They tiptoed. I don't believe you. I think you made that last bit up. No. David Attenborough. No, you didn't. You saw some penguins on David Attenborough, but it didn't confirm the existence of knees one way or the other. Yeah. What medication did they give you when you broke your ankle? Trust me, all right? It's anatomy. It's anatomy. It's anatomy. Basic anatomy. Oh. Someone sent me a picture of a penguin skeleton and you are right, but I don't know that. I'm gonna give you the round of applause, but I don't know if you qualify. It was a birthday. I deserve it. All right, then. Go on, then. Thank you. Nicely played. 1255. Wayne's embassy, then. Hello, mate. Question or answer? It's a question. Well, it's a bit late. The UK prison walls have to be a minimum height. You are pathetic. You are pathetic, aren't you? That's Chris Evans's question. And you just can't help yourself with radio presenters, can you? You like. You like a group. What are you talking about? You're like a groupie. It's not enough being my mate, now you're trying to suck up to Chris Evans. Hang on a minute. Right, you asked for someone to call in. I didn't mean you. I didn't mean you. It's a proper stage call, then. It's a good question, isn't it? Actually, yeah. Ask it again. Do UK prison. Prison walls have to be a certain height or minimum height? And if so, how is it calculated? I like it. And that would be the external wall, because obviously the subtext of this question involves jail breaks and prison. So keep a couple of phone lines free just in case we can get an answer for. For Wayne stroke. Chris's question. Okay. Zero. 345-606-0973 tafs in. Barry Taft. Question or answer? It's an answer. Bring it on. Shirt tails. Shirt tails. Yeah, I thought. Yeah, go on. What. What about them? A distasteful reason. 1213 hundreds when shirts made that length, so they could pull it between their legs, wrap it around where it needed to be wrapped around and then used, much as a baby would use a nappy. Absolute rubbish. It's. No, it is true. And why couldn't they just go to the lavatory or the Garda robe, as it was called in those days. It's. This is true. But why couldn't they just go and have a wee? Why do they have to have a nappy on? Oh, no, no, no. Because we were talking about these people would sit at a table and eat food and throw it to the dogs and share the tables. These. These are truly. I mean, the Chinese invented open air parliament because of the way the Europeans stunk when they. But that's. That's not that. Yeah. I don't think I'm go if I'm wrong, taf, I apologize to you, but I'm not giving you a round of applause for saying that men have shirt tails. As a 700 year old throwback to the days when they wrapped them around their bum so they could go to the lavatory without taking their trousers off. Well, okay. But I know this to be true. Well, I'm gonna move on to Paul, who's in Sheffield. Question or answer? Paul. Hello, James. Thanks for having me call. It's a question, mate. I know I've got to be quick, but great show, so get that out of the way. Yes, there's a national standard for prisons. Medium secure, low secure rehabilitation units, governing size of walls and fencing and what you can have going over the top, you know, and sometimes you haven't curved. Yes. So people can't climb over, etc, etc. But it's all governed. I once looked into this. Oh, wow. Oh, really? You just looked into it? Hang on a minute. No, not now. Oh, yeah, all right. You just happen to think to yourself, oh, I wonder what the rules and regulations are regarding prison walls. Is your nickname fingers? No, James. Listen. I work as a nurse in an intensive care unit and I go where? And by sizes, fences, etcetera. And I know it. I know it runs straight through as well. Love it. And that would be governed by. People. Really wondered quite why Chris Evans wants to know so much. Has he got a prisoner? Has he got a friend in prison? Does anyone aware? I should imagine more than one round of applause for Paul. And it'll be the home office. Thank you, mate. It'll be the home office. No doubt. That covers it's. What a lovely show today. And, you know, my parents are both from Yorkshire. My late dad was from Leeds and my mum was from Sheffield. I love the way that we're now reaching corners of the country that we didn't reach before. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, Jim.