Qualification? I'm French!

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Good grief, is it that time of week already? Six minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC a little later than usual. So once again, the pedants among you will point out, how can it be mystery hour? It's already 1207. I'm going to hand over to Sheila at 1259. That's mystery 52 minutes. Then you've got the commercial breaks to knock off. That's probably mystery 50 minutes. Just doesn't have the ring to it. Anyway, we've printed all the board games, games now, so we've got to call it mystery hour and we will continue to do so. Gratifyingly for me, but annoyingly for you, the switchboard is already full. But I hadn't even mentioned it was mystery hour in the run up to the last 12:00 junction to the news. But some of these callers, no offence, will be rubbish, which means that they will be dispatched with a polite flea in their ear in the next moments, freeing up a phone line for you to ring in. So judicious use of redial is generally the way forward if you want to get on air and if you hear somebody else ring in with a question to which you know the answer, then you have to ring in and answer it, otherwise you get disqualified. The competition to win a mystery out board game is currently not on, not open, because it's a proper grown up competition with terms and conditions and everything. And I haven't checked whether or not it has been re, what's the word? Refreshed? Renewed, even renewed for the, for the new year. So I don't think we'll be giving one away this week, but hopefully that feature will be reinstalled next week. Anyway. Thousands, so many people got one for Christmas, including my earlier correspondent, who got three. Maybe we get in touch with him, ask him if he can give one of the three Apple case that he got to this week's most popular contributor. But if you're not familiar with this feature, then you just have a little mystery bubbling away in the back of your brain. Who, why, what, where, when, what happened, what resulted, even the occasional wherefore, whither, whence someone else listening rings in with the answer. Sounds quite boring and straightforward. It's none of those things. It's fascinating and often hilarious. No, it's hilarious and often fascinating. It's often hilarious and it's often fascinating, but it all depends on you. The only real rule left is this one, you're not allowed to look anything up. So if someone asks a question you think, I'll just google it or I'll phone. Can you phone people? Yeah, you can phone people. Yeah, you can, you can phone your. Yeah, you can phone. Why have I made it all so complicated? It's supposed to be my easiest hour of the week. There's. But you can't look anything up, you can't google it, you can't reference it. But if you've looked it up in the past. So if you were watching telly last night and somebody said something and you thought, I'll just check that, I'd say, quite interesting. I'd say, where's that then? Sackville Gardens in Manchester. Who's that named after? And you looked it up yesterday then that's fine, but you can't look it up as a direct response to today's question. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. I think that's it really. Should we just crack on, see how we get on? Yeah. Gavin's in south end. Gavin, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Carry on, Gavin. Okay, so this is a question really, by the family and my children, who loved playing your game over Christmas. I mean it was a focal point. So. Glad to hear it. Really glad to hear it actually. But no, no, actually really good. And it was great to interact with them at a more adult level. So I got a lot of that. I got about that with my nephews as well. It kind of involves. But anyway, enough of that. It's brilliant. Let's just take that as red. Absolutely. So yes, the question is, would someone with a nut allergy be able to eat the meat of a squirrel? I like this. I mean, my amateurish answer as someone who has actually eaten a squirrel on live television, my amateur answer to this would be yes, because you thought, you know, nothing would get into the squirrel. That was. It would all be washed out. It would all come out in the wash, wouldn't it? It all come out in the butchering process. Exactly. And where's the parameters there? Where does it start? Where does it stop? Where's your allergy stop? Where does the meat start? I don't know. But why just a squirrel? Just because we associate squirrels with nuts. I mean, pigs eat nuts as well, so there's all sorts of. No, I mean it's all sorts of, you know, all sorts of animals could, could hoover up a nut, couldn't they? And then end up on your dinner table without. I've never heard of any nut allergy being triggered by something that wasn't actually a nut, but was a formerly living thing what consumed a nut? Yes. Do they just eat nuts or. Pretty much whole nuts? They eat so many nuts, they've got really nutty meat is what we're thinking, isn't it? I would love to have the question answered. My kids would love to have it. Well, we will do our best for your kids. I'm just trying to think who'd be best qualified to answer that question. It's a rare area of expertise, isn't it? Niche. Niche is the word, Gavin. Niche is the word if you have a nargy. And what's the guidance on eating squirrels is, I guess, one way into it. Zero 345-606-0973 it was the rather brilliant guardian journalist and environmental campaigner George Monbiotic who prepared a squirrel for me to eat in my television presenting days. Quite an odd experience. Tastes a lot like chicken. No one will be surprised to hear Christophe is in Wembley Park. Christoph, question or answer? Question. James, carry on. Why was Queen Victoria known as the Empress of India? In fact, I think that was a title that she had. Why wasn't she just called Empress Victoria? Considering that, you know, Britain had an empire at the time. And I think, by the way, the four kings that came after her, Edward, George. Edward, George. I think they were called emperor of India until India became independent. So why weren't they called Emperor Edward? Because the, because the relationship between the monarch and the United Kingdom is not imperial. So the England's not part of the empire. How does that differ from the relationship between the japanese emperor and, you know, because he's a, he's a monarch. Right. The japanese empire. Hang on a minute. Yeah, but that's, that's their choice. I think that we didn't talk about the empire until we got it. So you can't retrospectively rebrand the monarch as an emperor. I suppose. I bet that's it. I don't know. Not sounding at my most persuasive. Yeah. I mean, when it comes down to it, I'm not sure I know the difference between a king and an emperor. There is. There isn't one. I don't think it's. No, it's like Kaiser. I mean. Well, I don't know. Start evolving the question once you live on the radio. Why? I mean, I don't. I had to, because you, you tried to answer it. I didn't try to answer it. I successfully answered it, I think, but just not with any qualifications or proof at the minute. So why was she called the Empress of India and not just called the Empress of everywhere? Well, everywhere that she ought. She. I think because she would know. Because we had kings and queens, we didn't have emperors, and so just as we got more land. She can't be the queen of India. Well, actually, no. Why wasn't she the Queen of India then? Yeah. Thank you, James. You've asked my question. Impressive. India. Why was queen or the Empress of India? I think you can understand the question without necessarily having it perfectly articulated by me. So, Queen Victoria, Empress of India, why wasn't she just Empress Victoria or Queen of India? 1214 is the time. John's in Bournemouth. John, question or answer? Oh, hello. There's a question. I've just come from a doctor's appointment. I'm sorry to hear that. Is everything. Yeah, yeah. During which I happen to say to the nurse, I haven't had a cold for 15 years. Touch Wood. Oh, well done. Touch wood. Yes. And apart from there wasn't any wood to touch, why do we say touch wood? It's not going to stop me getting a cold, is it? Why do we say touch wood? To avoid bad luck. There's millions of answers to this, you know. It's come up before on mystery hour, and I don't think there is a definitive one. The wood of the cross is one of the theories. You touch the wood of the cross. So it was a kind of christian thing, but before that, as with lots of things, there's a pagan one as well that. What is it? Is it spirits lived in the wood? So you know that there'd be a spirit in the wood, that you were asking for help or asking for support with your. With your luck. Yeah. But I'll leave it on the board in case anyone wants to have a crack at a definitive answer. But you may be dis. Touch wood, John, someone will know the answer to this, but you may be disappointed, because I think it is so old and so entrenched in our traditions and our culture that nobody's 100% sure where it started. Well, that's why I asked the question. I know it is. That's why I'm touching wood, that I can get you an answer. I'm glad that the doctor's visit went okay as well. It's a nice, nice counterpoint to some of the previous. Some of the calls in the previous hour. John, thank you very much. 12:15 is the time. Origins of touch wood. Why was Queen Victoria the Empress of India, but the Queen of England. And can you eat squirrels if you've got a knot allergy? That's a lovely question, isn't it? It's 1215. It is 1218. And you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC where mystery hour continues. Quick shout for the Camden New Journal, excellent local newspaper up in north London but featuring this week a little column from a journalist called Harry Taylor examining the chances of Mister Harris getting a result against Redding on Saturday. Don't ask me how he's ended up doing that but he cheered me up a moment ago to see it. Come on you Reds. 19 after twelve is the time. Back to mystery. Our mark's in north Allerton. Mark. Question or answer? Hi James question please carry on. This might sound a bit of a silly question but are spiders scared of conkers? They're not scared of conkers. They're not. But there is. Are they repelled? Yes, they are. There is a gas released by horse chestnuts. Which is there. Yeah, which. Which spiders have a problem with. The problem is the problem that I've got now Mark is having played the mystery out board game a lot over Christmas and remembering this one from previous. From the board game. I don't know, it probably is. But what I found when I was playing the board game was that I remember really clearly things that have come up on the program but that doesn't mean they're right. So I always voted for the stuff I remembered and it often turned out to be wrong and I think I might have just done it again. I think I remember someone ringing in and saying, oh yes, conkers released noxious substances which repel spiders and that is why you are advised if you have a problem with spiders to put conkers around your doorways or what have you and then 20 minutes later someone else rang in and said, james, that's a load of old rubbish. And I forgot the bit about someone else ringing in to say, james, that's a load of old rubbish. And have burnt in my memory the idea that conkers somehow released, because they are quite smelly aren't they, conkers? And you remember when you were a kid and you licked one, you licked the inside of one and it was really nasty. And do not eat conkers kids. Seriously. Crikey, I played conkers. I can't say I've ever licked them. Did you not? No, not ever. Because you can eat chestnut. You've eaten a chestnut. You've eaten a chestnut. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you'd think as a kid you'd think I wonder what horse chestnuts are like. And they'd say, oh, that's why we don't eat horse chestnuts. They're absolutely gross. But they have quite a distinctive aroma, especially when you smash. You weren't good enough at Conker's, mate. That's your problem. So you never smashed anybody else's open and then licked it as a. As a sort of form of victory dance? Ha ha. So that. I'll leave it on the board, but I don't. Do conkers. Keep spiders away is the question. We're going to. Yeah, yeah, that's right. You're on. I was told it a few, a couple of months ago and I thought, is that real? Have you tried it? I mean, have you tested it yourself? To be honest, I did. And you know, those big, you know, you get those big, horrible house spiders and we'd had a couple early autumn. Now I put conkers around the house and I haven't seen any since. And I just thought, correlation, yeah. Correlation is not causation, is it? So, is it? Can we get some sort of scientific justification for this, this belief that conquers, can somehow repair. Lovely question. Thank you, Mark. Conkers and spiders. Cheers, mate. Touch wood. Empress of India. Squirrels and nuts. That's quite conquers and spiders. Squirrels and nuts is a theme emerging here. Jeff's in Leeds. Jeff, question or answer? Hey, James. Answer, please. Carry on, Jeff. So your squirrel and nut allergy problem. So when a squirrel digests nuts, the nuts are going to be broken down. The protein is what you're allergic to in the nuts. The protein would be broken down into the component of amino acids, so thus no longer causing that allergy. So the amino acids would then be used by the squirrels to develop muscles, etcetera. So you're not eating the protein that's in the acorn, which is the nut. Yeah, there is qualifications. Well, I'm a ten years graduate. Biology. Postgraduate, so I guess marine biology originally. So it doesn't really involve squirrels, but some transferable knowledge. Are you related to. Are you allergic to nuts? I'm allergic to egg. You're allergic to egg? Well, yeah, the protein in the yolk, but. So, same question then. If a creature has eaten an egg, you're not going to have any problem eating that creature. Yeah. So basically, when you're eating that, when you digest any food, you break the proteins down into the amino acids. You're not allergic to the amino acids, you're allergic to the protein. So you're not actually digesting the protein. No, I understood. I was just applying the theory to eggs as well as to nuts, just to drive it home for people who aren't as scientifically minded as me. And you, Jeff. Yeah, or you. Anyway, round of applause. Cheers. Thank you very much. Nice work, Jeff. There you go. So if you there. And also that's Gavin's kids sorted as well. You eat all the squirrels you want, even if you are allergic to nuts. Make sure you give them a good wash first. Natasha is in Kensington. Natasha, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Natasha. It's why we touch wood. It's back when humans were tree dwelling. They used to touch the bark of trees to invoke the fairies and spirits that they believed lived there for protection. It's not definitive, though. Well, I read it in Otto English's book, fake history. Oh, that's strong. And he offers that up as a definitive answer, does he? I'm a big fan of. Yeah, but other people think it's like touching the cross or something like that. I mean, that cross of Jesus. Is Natasha Devon on the line? This is outrageous. Haven't you got enough work to do preparing for your own excellent radio programs on LBC without infiltrating mine? Incognito? Incognito. Unbelievable behavior. All right, well, I've got to give you a round of applause, though, but you're not getting a Ray Liotta. That'd be ridiculous. Qualifications? I read it in fake history by Otto English, which is an excellent book. Did your dad enjoy the board game? He did, very much, thank you. Yes. Remind everybody when you're on LBC, Saturday, seven till nine. Outrageous. Absolutely outrageous. Self promotion. It'll never catch on. Round of applause for Natasha, my friend and colleague Natasha Devon there, providing an answer that I will accept, albeit that I don't think you go definitive fully on the touch wood answer, because I'm sure in the past we've established that there are various answers, including the converse, or the inverse of what Natasha said. I think there's another one that says, you touch wood or you knock on wood, which is another one, so that the malevolent spirits in the wood can't hear what you're saying. So you say, oh, I hope we're all right. Oh, don't let the bad spirits hear it. I'll stop hitting the desk because someone told me yesterday it sets their dog off. Where are we going next? Is it Ben in Bradford? Ben in Bradford. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. So, how do palates pronounce certain letters, for example, P without lips. So when we pronounce words, we use our lips to form the sound. We do. But palate doesn't have lips, but nor does a ventriloquist. Well, I mean, he does have lips, but he manages to do. I mean, it's bread and butter, isn't it? Is the classic example. Yeah. So they can do it. A ventriloquist can do plosives, so it must be in the same way. Why would it have to be in the same way? That a paradox. I'm just pointing out it's not impossible for humans. Yeah, well, it's not. Don't make that disappointing noise. Is that ventriloquists can do all the words in the world. Good. Ventriloquist can do all the words. Ventriloquist has cheeks as well. So does apparent apparel. Soft cheeks. What's cheeks got to do with anything? Again, it's how you use your mouth to form the words. Yeah. Parrots and plosives, I've written down. That's what we're looking for, isn't it? I think so, yeah. Parrots. How do parrots do plosives? How do they do any noise? I mean, really, I don't. I imagine the answer will reveal that it's got nothing to do with P's and B's and parrots just use a completely different biological mechanism to mimic human speech from the ones that we use to actually do human speech, won't it? Don't you think? I don't know. What I'm saying is, it's not easier for a parrot to say really, really, really good than it is for a parrot to say, pretty Polly picked a perfect pickled pepper. No, I've never had a parrot to ask. Pretty polly. Pretty Polly. We shall find out. All right, Ben. I like it. Thank you. James is in King's Cross. James, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, James. So it's the Queen Victoria question. Basically, what happened was, is there was a period in time, during roughly the 1870s, where she was seen as being too far detached from certain parts of the empire, namely India. And Benjamin Disraeli pushed it through the House of Commons in order to make her the Empress of India. And that's basically what it was. Political decision. I know where. Yeah, go on. I've read this, haven't I? Of course you have. I read it because you suggested. I know, go on. Satnam, Sangera, Empireland, but also fucking everybody else's books on this program. I've got two of my own that are available in all good bookshops at the moment. I've got them both, mate. I've got them both. I also happen to work for the, what used to be the indoor office, but it's now the Asia and Africa collection at the British Library. So I'm familiar with that. I'm familiar with Satnam and I'm also familiar with Otto. English is new, but I've just bought. And Natasha Devens has ruined part of it for me, so great. Ruined part of it for you. She's tickled your fancy. She's giving you a reason to Reno. That's lovely stuff. Qualifications galore. Round of applause, James. Thank you, mate. Top stuff, mate. Thank you. So it was. It was. It was. It was marketing in a way, wasn't it? Much. Literally. It's another free word slogan. In other words, you know, it's always been done. Empress of India. Very strong three word slogan. Yeah. Because the natives might be getting a little bit restless. If you call yourself empress of India, they'll feel a little bit more cherished and cared for. Doff cap, tug forelock vote. Empress of India. Peter is in Windsor. Peter, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Okay, so, in nature, how is it possible? Or how has it become possible for animals and insects to camouflage themselves? For example, insects, which suddenly turn from their normal color into, you know, to hide themselves in on trees or animals, which. Or insects or reptiles, which can change the color to disguise themselves. How is that possible? Or how has it been possible? So you mean the chameleon like ability to camouflage yourself, rather than how did animals evolve that look like plants and therefore can hide in a plant? You mean the ones. Yeah, a bit of both, really, because the obvious answer is adaptation and evolution. So it was a genetic glitch that occurred at some long distant point in the species past, and it equipped them with something beneficial, which meant they could breed more. And the glitch got passed down to generations until all that survived were descendants of the glitched origins, origin of the species. So that's part of the answer, but I don't know if that answers your question. Well, at some point, there must have been a tipping point where they weren't invisible or camouflaged to being camouflaged. Yeah. And they kept getting eaten. And then an un camouflaged one gave birth to a camouflaged one. The camouflaged one didn't get eaten on anything like the scale that the un camouflaged ones did. So they started making merry and had lots of little baby camouflaged ones. And it really is that. I mean, it's kind of very simplistic precy of the origin of the species, but that's how it, what's the word I'm looking for? Is it adaptation? I think it's adaptation. It's 30 years since I was at college. Crikey. My question really is at one point, did the newborn insect. Yeah. Become camouflaged? No, they were born. They were born with the ability to camouflage themselves. And it would have been like a freak, a freakish genetic glitch, but it turned out to be really useful. Do you see what I mean? In the same way that, you know, people born with things that make them much more vulnerable these days we might call them disabilities. I mean, you couldn't escape from a predator. You could have been born with something that was the opposite. It was an extra ability, in this case, the ability to camouflage yourself, and that just gets passed down through reproduction. And you're going to reproduce more if you've got this adaptation than you are if you haven't. So eventually it becomes prevalent in the population. Right. Okay. You'd sound unconvinced. I'm totally unconvinced by that. Sorry. Well, what do you mean, you're unconvinced by evolution? What are you, some sort of evangelical Christian? Well, okay, I'm not really confused by that answer, but, well, that's what I mean about thinking that you're not because you want, how come they can change color? You want a scientific answer to that question rather than where does the ability to change color come from? It's not necessarily change color. No, I know, but I'm using that as a figure. Like a twig, for example. Oh, well, that's just evolution. Okay. Of course it is. I mean, think about it. If you're an insect and you don't look like a twig, and there's a bird flying past feeling hungry, who's it gonna eat? The one that looks like a twig or the one that doesn't look like a twig? Yeah, I guess so. And your brother looks like an insect and you look like a twig. Your brother's gonna be dead by tea time, and you're gonna be out making baby twig insects. Okay, that's it. I'm taking it. Well, I don't know if this one will make the second edition of the ball game. We'll have to wait and see. But I'm taking a round of applause, my first of the year. So greedy that I've even made myself late for the news with Amelia Cox. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1235 is the time you're listening to mystery. Like the man said on LBC, I am keen to crack on, but I'll remind you of what is currently on the board. We still need an answer to the question about conkers and spiders, parrots and plosives. I sense that the insect camouflage question didn't send the questioner away fully satisfied, so if you think you can add to that, feel free. But I'm keeping my round of applause and a couple of one query on the squirrels and nuts question. Someone saying, my friend has a really serious nut allergy, which can be triggered by sitting near someone who has eaten nuts. And that is, even if they ate the nuts like, hours previously, that's not a refutation of the once the protein in the nut has been broken down into amino acids, so if it's still in their mouth and on their breath, it could still trigger an allergy. But if it has been eaten and then you eat the person that ate it. This has all gone a little bit weird, hasn't it, for 25 to one on a Thursday afternoon, if you were to eat the person that had eaten the nut and it had been, you know, slaughtered hygienically. Look, you work it out. I can't do everything for you. Two phone lines free if you're quick. If you've got a question, or if you can answer. How do parrots speak? Or how do they mimic human speech? And the conkers and spiders one. But we've actually got time for more questions as well. Kate is in Wyvillsfield Green in Sussex. Kate, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Okay, so why do we have the urge to squeeze cute things like kittens or the chubby bits of baby's legs? Squeeze. Would you go around squeezing kittens? Well, you don't do it, but you've got the urge. You want to give them a lot. Oh, wanna squeeze them. The chubby parts of a baby's leg. You know, that nice squeezy bit is. Yeah. Well, sort of. Have you ever had that feeling where you want to give him a squeeze? I'm at the other end of the telescope. I'm one of those cute things that everybody else wants to squeeze cake. I'm sure you are. Is it. Is it things that we would normally cuddle, but they're too small to cuddle, so we kind of subconsciously translate for me personally and a few other people that I know. It's more of a squeeze. Sometimes even like a bit of a bite, really. What? You bite kittens. Oh, I know I do. I do sort of know what you mean. But I'd be. I'm gonna be amazed if you get an answer because you're looking for an. I don't know what it would be. Psychological, evolutionary. Why do we get an urge to squeeze cute things? No, I like it a lot. What's the last thing you squeeze? What's the last thing you squeezed? Kate, remember, this is a family pro. It's a family program. I've got a little mini schnauzer. Sometimes I get rid of these back legs and give them a squeeze because they're quite chubby. That's quite sweet. I don't know if I do feel this in way that you do because I've got a cute. I've got a cute little dog as well. And I'll give her a lovely cuddle and I'll ruffle her. But I don't. I don't ever have an actual urge to squeeze any specific limbs. Next time she's running away from you or in front of you, watch her little back legs and you might feel the urge then to give him a squeeze. I will let you know. I'll report back. Thank you, Kate. Why do we get an urge to squeeze cute things? 1238 is the time. All human life is here. Russell's in Bridgend. Russell, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question in regard to your previous person. I squeeze my cat. Do you? Which is. Yes, I do. What do we mean by squeeze, then? I'm not. I mean, maybe I do squeeze. I've got something usually ends with me bleeding, but because the cat will give you a scratch back. Oh, you're so cute. You mean. But you mean. You mean. Well, yeah. My daughter. One of my daughters does that with the cat, actually. Yeah. You can't have this. They're there. They're looking cute. You give them a squeeze. Yeah. And then they bite you. Yeah. Well, there you go. That's. That's. That's. That's. That's nature. Red in tooth and claw. What did you ring in with? I listen to your show every Wednesday at 12:00 and listen to Prime Minister's questions. What will you do if we drop it? How will you feel if we drop it? I'd be livid. Would you really actually live it? Yeah, I would be. Yeah. It just feels as though the prime minister knows the questions are coming up and I just wanted to know whether the prime minister knows the questions is going to be asked. Cool. No, he does. I find it incredibly unfair. No, he doesn't know the questions in advance. But they spend and they do quite a lot of modelling. What's the word? Modelling, or hot housing or whatever. Preparing. Even if I was being a bit less pretentious, they do quite a lot of preparing, trying to work out what the questions will be. And I think. I think Michael Gove normally plays the role, or certainly back in the day, under David Cameron, Michael Gove would play the role of Ed Miliband and they'd rehearse it. Rehearse is the word I was flipping looking for. They'd rehearse it like that. You can usually, because you hear me and Theo pontificating about what questions are likely to come up. And just because Theo almost always gets it completely wrong doesn't mean that the government and the prime minister would get it completely wrong when they try and guess what questions are going to come up. So they've got an edgy who seems to nail it every time. Boris Johnson. Have you been watching the same PM queues? What do you mean? He seems to nail it every time by saying, I think what the public really want to know is nothing to do with that answer in advance. But you've just established yourself it doesn't matter what the question is if he's going to spin that spiel. Yeah, and that's the annoying thing. Why can't he be enforced to answer the question? That's not what you asked. That's not what you asked, Russell. No. I'm afraid I'm laying down the law on this one. I'm taking another round of applause. The simple answer to your question is no, he doesn't know the questions beforehand. And the slightly more developed answer is, they usually make an educated guess that is right more often than it's wrong, because it is usually quite obvious. It's why the early days of Jeremy Corbyn were surprisingly effective, because he would ask those questions that had come from. Do you remember from Russell in bridgend wants to know why. Dot, dot, dot, dot, dot. And that did kind of take them by surprise for a while. That did put Cameron on the back foot, but they soon readjusted and responded. I'll take a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. And I'll also answer your second question. The speaker can't. I mean, it can intervene a bit, but it's not like school, it's the prime minister. The speaker can't say, I insist that you answer the question. Leader of the opposition should do more of it. Elie's in Jerusalem. Ellie, question or answer? Question. Carry on. I want to know why. I know politics from three different countries in the world and why, in all countries in the world is the conservatives called the right? Yes. And labor or the Democrats called the left? Yes. But you want to know why? And what? Why is one of them right and one of them left? It's that way around. It's post revolutionary France, isn't it? Isn't it, where they sat in the first. In the first french parliament after they'd got rid of the royal family. So we all follow the French? I think so. I think so, yeah. Don't know how I feel about that answer. What do you mean, you don't know how you feel about that answer? So it's not. I mean, it's not about what you think about the French. It was. It was, yeah, it was. It was. It was the. Well, it was that. Definitely that. I'm trying to remember which way around it was. I think it was. The aristocrats that were left over would be to the right of the speaker's chair and the new sort of tribunes, or whatever they were called, the deputies, be the third estate. They'd be to the left of the. So the first estate is the monarchy. The second estate is the aristocracy. The third estate is the people, the tribunes of the people. The fourth estate is the media, traditionally. So the speaker, or whatever it was called in the french parliament, would have the nobility, the aristocrats on his right, and the robespierre lot on his left. And that's where it comes from. Wow. Interesting. It is, isn't it? Round of applause for me. It's a very good question. I'm 99% sure I got the answer right. But there might be the scintilla of chance for whatchamacallit there. The stewards inquiry. Dylan is in Westbury. Dylan, question or answer? I've got a question. Please carry on. So I was wondering, why is it that the English Channel is called the English Channel and not the French? Well, the French don't call it the English Channel. Do they not? No, they call it la Manche, I think. Ah. Does that answer your question? Yeah. Because on all maps it says the English Channel. How many of the maps have you looked at are French? Well, actually, I don't know. I've never really looked at French. I don't know what La Manche actually means. I think it's part of Normandy, but it is the French call the. What we call the English Channel the French call la Manche. Okay. And that. Does that answer your question? Yeah, I think so. I do, too. Tell me what your. What my qualification. Ask me what my qualifications are. What are your qualifications? Genius. Ah, mercy. I consider myself a genius, but I do French at school and I have no idea what le mange means. Not monge. That's eat monche. M a n c h e. La Manch. La Manche, mon ami. La Manche. What's French for swim, Dylan? I have absolutely no idea. I thought you were studying French at school. I did it. I just started it when I chose my GCse. How old are you? I'm 16, but I lived in Malta and I did Italian for the whole time I was there. What's Italian for swim, then? Stop bullying teenagers, O'Brien. This is ridiculous behaviour. So anyway, the answer to your question is all the maps you've looked at are english maps. And if you looked at a french map, it would say la Manche. Round of applause for me. Thank you, Dylan. Take care. Good luck with those GCSE's. 1245 is the time or a levels. Now, if you sit. No. 16, just 16, you'll be doing your GCSE's in the summer. Jefferson Bagshot will come to him after this break. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1249. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Stephen's in Montpellier. Stephen, question or answer? Oh, dear. I just spoke French. Becall. La Manche is after the shape of the English Channel. La Manch means a sleeve. Yes. Not like where you put your arm. No, it's not a correction, it's a clarification. Yes. Clarification. Sorry. Yeah, so, I mean, it is called La Manche by the French. Yes. But it translates as the sleeve because of the shape of the body of water. That's right. Exactly. Qualifications. I am french. A round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Those beautifully handled qualifications. I'm french. Oh. What else would it be? Jeff's in Bagshot. Jeff, question or answer? Happy New Year. It's an answer. Or an answer, I should say. Yes. And the spider. Spiders and conkers. Yes. Spiders are not repelled by whatever chemical conkers may give off. It's a myth. I thought so. And you know what I got this from? Oh, don't know. I got it from a quiz game that I got for Christmas called James O'Brien. I said to your researcher, surely all his answers are plastered all over the office wall, aren't they? So Adrian Schellz, as we know him very fondly, who kind of. He's public enemy number one in some corners of the country, because he's the bloke that made all those viral clips go viral. He kind of was responsible for that huge upsurge in the popularity of the program. But he also, as a fellow mystery Araficianado, he wrote the cards, he wrote all the questions and the answers. And he got in touch over new year to say, obviously he's unbeatable. He's just struggling to find people to play it with who don't know. But he wrote all the cars in the creche, so he's completely unbeatable. But I've got the opposite problem. I remember the convincing wrong answers and think that they're the right answers. So does it say, it says on the book, does it say on the card there's a noxious gas released by the conkers? Yeah, I mean, I'm walking the dog, so I don't have a copy of it. No, that's fine. I'm not going to mark you. We did it two or three nights ago and I was convinced that they were repelled by it. But. But actually the answer is no. It's all a load of conkers. Round of applause for Jeff. You think, if anything, if there was one game, the one that's got my own flipping face on the box, I'd be quite well qualified. But no, by the way, of course, I should have mentioned, if you're wondering what we're talking about or what all the fuss is about, or what joys were visited upon us by this game over Christmas, you can order yours at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK to get it directly. And in various other online retail. Well, the most obvious online retailer, I suppose, being Amazon, but it is going to be in shops this year as well. That was some rather good news we got before the Christmas period. Some household name retailers will be stocking it in the coming year, so there's no reason not to join in. Ed's in Edgware. Ed. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Well, more of an elaboration, really, on the PMQ's question, which you so generously gave yourself a round of applause for. Generous. It was justice. It was natural justice. Come on, then. So this is a steward's inquiry on one of my answers. Well, the PM f one will be gone for weeks if we start that. The PM knows about half of the questions. No, this was only. He meant the leader of the opposition's questions, not the MP's questions that come after. Oh, well, okay. I thought he sort of gave a sense that the PM seemed to know what the questions were in advance, not necessarily just the leader of the opposition. I'm 52% sure that it was a question about the infernal ratio, because he said, then he goes off and answers it regardless. Because the question involved he was then trying to ask, why doesn't the speaker force him to actually answer the question that he was asked? So I'm 52%. I'm actually 90% sure it was a question about the leader of the opposition's questions rather than the ones. The other ones are staged. But anyway, what are your qualifications? Because you. Well, I used to work for an MP and the whip's office would be, in advance telling us what questions to ask, to submit the question. Ask him about this one, will you? Knowing the trade is an open goal, really, isn't it? Yeah. And it's why MP's will ask a version of the question they're asked. And at the end, shoe wants something about their own constituency. Does the prime minister agree with me that the national anthem should be played at the end of all broadcasting by James O'Brien on LBC? And does he also agree with me that the good people of Basingstoke. Exactly. Yeah, that kind of thing. I'll give you a round of applause for being a good egg, but I'm not. You're not having mine. 1254 is the time. Why do you squeeze cute things? And the parrots. How do parrots mimic human speech? Do we know? It might be one of the great mysteries of the universe, but there's still time for you to answer it. How do parrots mimic human speech? And why do we squeeze cute things? That's all I've got left, I think. The insect camouflage question. I think I answered it. But if you think I didn't, and I suspect the questioner thought I didn't, then feel free to tell me what I got wrong. James is in Dunoon in Scotland. James, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. And so the urge to bite, squeeze or pinch cute things is known as cute aggression. Shut up. Aggression. Shut the front door. Are you serious? Call what cute aggression? Cute aggression or what? Cute. What was the second? Playful aggression? Playful aggression. So it's like kittens. And would you believe my dog and our new cat are best mates and they're always wrestling with each other, but they never have their claws or their teeth out. So that would be cute aggression as well? Yeah. In humans, it's so we can perpetuate the species and that we have to give care to young. And so we have this mechanism in our brain that says, oh, we have to take care of this. But if it's so cute that we're debilitated and can't function in life, that's detrimental. So we have this aggression to break that urge of cuteness. So a primeval to squeeze a cute thing to overcome the paralysis of cuteness, as it were. Exactly, yeah. What are your qualifications? I took child and adolescent development in uni. Really? And that's an actual thing in a textbook. Cute. Cute aggression, yeah. So you know how to manage a classroom without getting overwhelmed. I think that's a lovely answer. And I did not expect Kate. I think it was Kate that asked the question, wasn't it, to get a proper answer, never mind an academic sounding one. James, have a round of applause on me. Thank you. No, thank you. Cute aggression. That's what overcomes Sheila Fogarty every time she walks into the studio at five minutes. I always give you a little squeeze. Don't that in the news bulletin. Don't tell anyone. What about your New Year's resolution? Professor Hal is here. Professor Hal, why are you here? What have we done to rattle your cage? Well, you invited us to feel free to tell you what you got wrong. That's a permanent feature of this program. Hal. No. Can I just. Underpin what you got right, because you were kind of saying, without saying, that evolution is not driven by purpose. Evolution is a series of chances causing mutations. So the chance that an insect looks a bit more camouflaged means it's likelier to reproduce and not get eaten. But the other point that we could underpin it with is that nature gives with one hand and takes with the other. Some mutations which cause harm, such as the sickle cell trait, also cause benefit because sickle cell anemia also allows the sufferer to have immunity towards malaria. Is that right? Yeah, it is. Which is why it sort of gives with one hand and takes with the other. Mutation was the word I was looking for instead of adaptation, wasn't it? Yes. And it's the same with the giraffes with the longer necks, the ones the longer necks could reach. The hired leaves were better fed and therefore pass that mutation onto their offspring until eventually, millions of years later or millennia later, every member of that species has the mutation in it is no longer immutable mutation. It's normal. Yes, it. So evolution doesn't design. It's not a sort of. And that would apply to changing color as well. The species that, like a chameleon, there would have been an ancestor that couldn't change color. And then there was a mutation that involved this bizarre ability to blend into the background, and that obviously was of immense. I mean, almost invaluable in the context of avoiding predation. Yeah. The pepper moths went black and then they went white. I love that story in Manchester. Yes, because of the industrial revolution. Yeah, for the pollution and stuff like that. So they'd get eaten when they were white because they'd stand out against the black background and then they went black and they'd blend into the black background because of all the pollution on the black background. And then they went white again when things cleaned up a bit. Is that right? Exactly. You're very good qualifications. I'm a lucky guy because I'm the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. You're also a tv star. I'm not a star. Zed list, you're a star, man. I'm Zed list, you're a star, man. Would you honestly, hand on heart and apologies if I've asked you this question already? Do you think that the television executives would have come knocking if it wasn't for mystery out, if it wasn't for your celebrity status? No. One of the first questions they would have asked. There you go, you see? So you could start off ringing into mystery out, albeit as a professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And the next thing you know, you'll be starring in how? As Professor Howe. Professor Howe. Professor Howe. Doctor Howe. Doctor Howe. Professor Howe is Doctor Howe. That's exactly right. Happy New Year, mate. I'll see you soon, I hope, Angie. Thanks, James. And that's it for another day. Here is the nation's most famous sufferer of cute aggression, Sheila Fokerty. And sometimes just aggression. Aggression. I've sent you an article on cute aggression that I was reading in the last two minutes. It's very serious. I'll give you a squeeze in a minute, James.