A lot of confusion over water vapour

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. It's five minutes after twelve. I tell you what, I do love you sometimes. 2 hours of very, very heavy going analysis and discussion and even a little debate on the continuing bombardment of Gaza by the israeli army at the behest of an israeli government that contains some people possessed of views and opinions and histories much more pungent than perhaps many members of the british media realize. And without even mentioning it. The minute we head towards the twelve noon news, a little late so that we could give Alexander a chance to put his case, the phone lines light up with people getting ready for mystery hour. I genuinely love that. It fills my heart with joy that the. I don't know that the levity that this hour provides is there even without me needing to remind you. And of course, quite possibly more needed than usual. The way it works is this. Someone rings in with a question, it could be you, and then someone else rings in, excuse me, with an answer. And that may sound a little simplistic or uninspiring. Something weird happens, something very, very weird happened, and magic is created. It's like radio alchemy. That's how I like to think of mystery hour. Not only that, but if you have a contribution, if you make a contribution that I consider to be the finest of the day, then you can win a mystery hour board game. Just in time. It should be with you. Just in time for Christmas. What's the date today? December 14. Well, just, I mean, either just in time for Christmas or just after. I don't know what the details are, but hey ho, it's the thought that counts. And of course, if you want to get one in tight, want to get one yourself, then head over to Mysteryhour dot Co. A lovely thing to have under your Christmas tree this year. Full terms and conditions are at LBC dot co dot UK and the board game itself. The game itself is at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK dot. I think we'll just crack straight on, shall we? Seven minutes after twelve is the time Mike is in Manchester. Mike, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on. So I drive on the motorways quite a lot, and quite often I drive under motorway bridges which have graffiti or slogans written on. And I always wonder how do the graffiti artists get that graffiti onto the motorway bridge? I've often wondered that as well, actually. So because I thought their mate holds them by the ankles and I'm not making light of it, but that's what I've, I mean, I've genuinely thought about it a lot. I'm a bit weird with bridges. I really like them. And I quite like graffiti as well. So it's a bit of a. It works for me. The planets align and I think that your mate must be holding you by your ankles while you dangle over the bridge. Yeah. And that was one of my thoughts. Right, so do they hold them upside down? Is there some kind of elaborate harness system? It seems unlikely, doesn't it? Because you're going to have to leg it fairly quickly if the feds turn up. You never see anybody doing that. So do you have long poles? But then if you're writing something upside down, it's actually quite hard. I can't do that on a piece of paper. Do you have to practice. Do you have to practice writing upside down in order to do it? So, yeah. Is there sometimes a little ledge that you can tiptoe out on and do that? There's a lot of questions going, so really we need some. Someone who's done it and they need to tell us, because there might not be one catch all technique, Mike. There might not be one, you know, established modus operandi for doing this. It may be that the. Yeah, I can't logically work out. I've never seen anybody doing it, so I drive on motoys a lot. So, yeah, I was just curious. I like it a lot. It is 1209. It is graffiti on bridges. And it is two subjects very close to my heart. Well done for bringing them, for knitting them closely together. From Manchester to Stockport, actually, which is just up the road, there's a viaduct that joined the two. I can't remember off the top of my head, Peter, whether there is any graffiti on the viaduct. But we may find out later. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. So when I drink, I was in the office drinking a cup of tea, and my little finger was sticking out like the posh people in caricature cartoons do. And it's been bugging me because people taking the mick and I never realized they did it. And then once. I keep hatching myself doing it now, and I'm trying to figure out why, I've got a couple of things. I've got a couple of suggestions what it might be gone, but I'm wondering if there's another. So one could be evolutionary fight or flight, in the sense that if you clasp onto something strongly, then it's harder to let go of it and run away. So it could be that I'm just using as minimal effort to hold onto it as possible. The other one could be it's a balance. So the more that a tip, the higher the angle that I tip my hand or tip my pint, the more that my thing. Do it when you're drinking a pint as well? Yeah, I do. My mates laugh about it when I'm in the pub as well. And I think it's that same amount of pressure that I use or balance or evolution let go in case there's an emergency. But then why would you. So you're claiming you're more evolved than all your mates? Well, clearly survival of the fittest. Yeah. Okay. When did they get in the bathtub? And it's like your own Pete. It's like, well, I get out of the pub as fast as possible. So why do some people stick their little finger out when they're drinking? Exactly. I think Eric Bristow did it when he played darts and he. The crafty cockney. I don't think anyone else did it when they played darts. It was. I remember that being. I remember someone knitting the two together. The fact that some people do it when they drink a cup of tea. And Eric Bristow did it when he was throwing arrows. But I don't know that that will be relevant to the answer. But it might work on the balance point. But then other darts players don't do it. And I mean, Bristow was probably the best of generation, but I don't know if he's the goat, the greatest of all time. And if it was down to the little finger being poked out, then you'd think other people would have adopted the practice as well. That went off in an unexpected direction. Peter, thank you. Why do some people stick their little fingers out when they are drinking brackets or throwing darts? And how do you get graffiti on bridges, especially big bridges? Very dangerous. Steve's in Crawley. Steve, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I like my science, but there's one thing that really bugs me, and I'm determined not to google it. I've been trying to get on with this one for ages. Go on. Why does water spontaneously turn into water vapor? I mean, there are three fundamental states of matter. Solid, gas and liquid. If you want to get more exotic, you can go to plasma. But why does water, all on its own, turn into water vapor, which is still a liquid, but it floats away, goes up into the sky and turns into clouds. What do you mean, all on its own? Well, you don't have to do anything to it, even when it's cold, it does it slower, certainly, but when you apply warmth, it doesn't turn into a gas like it does if you. Water vapor is a gas. No, it's not. It is. Water vapor is still a liquid. No, steam is a gas. No, water vapor is a gas. Steam and vapor are both the gaseous phases of water. I don't. So you're getting. No, I promise you I'm right on this. I don't know why I'm right. I know that I am. And whenever I say that, I've never been. I've never been embarrassed or proved wrong in a million years. But there are two ways of creating it. So evaporation, which is what you're referring to, and then boiling of water, which more obviously creates. Creates steam because clouds are made up of water vapor. Yes. Which are very, very small water particles. It's not a gas. It is the gaseous phase of water. It's a gas. No, it isn't steam. No, no. Vapor is also. Well, that's fine. Who will you believe? Because. No, I can't. I can't pull rank on this. I can't. I haven't got the qualifications. Forms of something. There can't be two gaseous forms of something. It's the gate. It's the gaseous phase. No, steam is the gaseous. No, they both are. When you look at your kettle, steam is water vapor. Steam is water vapor. No, it isn't. It is. When you look at your kettle, and I remember this from my physics at school, and I'm 112 years old, when you look at your kettle, if you look really close to the spout where it comes out, there is a clear bit. Yeah. And that's the vapor. No, that is steam. It turns into vapor when it turns white. All right, I'll put it. So the question is, is water vapor gas? Kind of, but not really, because I know it's not a gas. I know it is. Even though. Even though. Even though you're arguing with me, I know it is. What are your. What are your qualifications? What are my qualifications? Scientific idiot. What did you get in your GCSE's or your o levels? I've got an a for me. A level in physics. All right, you're winning. I got an e in my o level. I'm 67 years old, so they've only just got me a dinosaur. I got a d. I got a d, actually, not an e. I got an e in statistics. My parents paid a fortune for that. They should have got a refund. I'm putting it on the board, but I think you're going to be embarrassed as long as the person who answers it has got some form of qualification. We haven't heard from the professor of publishing host in the country. Well, you're very kind. That's very kind of you. I shall. I shall ask Sheila Fogarty when she gets. She's one b, you're one a. She's one b, you're very kind. So what is water vapor? Or. I mean, how does it work? The answer is it's a gas. But Steve doesn't accept that and he certainly won't accept it from me. The second bit of which is absolutely reasonable. Nor would I, frankly. Not on a physics question. But can you help both of us? It's 1215, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 17 minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is well underway. How do you. How do you. I mean, listen, I don't want to be seen to be encouraging this in any way, but how do you get. How do you do graffiti on bridges, on sort of motorway gantries? Why do some people stick their little finger out when they're drinking a cup of tea? Or in Peter, in Stockport's case, even a pint of ale be Robinson's up there, would it? In Stockport, one of the local brewskis. And what is water vapour? Is it a gas? I think if we get an answer to that question, then Steve's question is closed. But you're gonna need quite high quality qualifications. He was quite a stickler, was old Steve, with his a in a level physics, but I think. I think it's a gas. 1218 is the time Dan's in reading. Dan. Question or answer? It's an answer, James, but I'm not too sure whether I've got a gas or vapor coming out of my ears after that last one. Go on. So I have an answer for you about the motorway bridges. Yes. There's multiple ways you can do it. I thought there were. All of it involves abiding by the dark arts of the 03:00 in the morning rule. Yes. You can either use a whopping great ladder. No, I mean. You mean to come up from the ground to the. But there's cars going past and stuff. There's multiple ways of doing it. You can either do it from that way. You're not obviously going to park your car on the side of the motorway. You're going to park near and walk in, but that is the thing, is it? So you just. You just guarantee on the. You're obviously a graffiti artist and I suspect that you may have given us a false name in order to protect your identity. And I'm very comfortable with that. And I'm in no way endorsing criminal behavior, but I do really like graffiti. But it is a thing. You're just banking on the road, being so quiet that you can get your ladder. You can get up and down your ladder quick enough to do a tag or whatever you call them. Well, it's either that. There's a couple of ways. There's that. There's often people with climbing harnesses on, like, abseiling equipment. Yeah. Not to give too much away, but very often we may or may not look like we're just doing maintenance on the road. So not to confirm or deny, for example, wearing a high vis vest would oddly be quite a good idea in this context. And a hard hat. Yeah, perhaps. And this is how they get. Yes, allegedly. This is how they get onto the side of big, very big buildings and bridges. And some of them you can just. There's a ledge and you can just take your life into your hands and walk across the ledge. Nailed it. So I love the idea of Mike driving up and down the M 60 and seeing it and coming up with almost all. Just theorizing, coming up with almost all of the things you've described. And thankfully, very rarely or hopefully never, does your mate grab you by the ankles and dangle you over. No, it's not like that. He might be spotting your rope, though. He might be spotting your rope, so you take it very seriously. I mean, the safety is obviously key, otherwise we'd probably hear more terrible stories, wouldn't we? Yeah, there's. There's a few. It does happen. I know it happens. And particularly on railway track. I don't know why, but I always think of breakdance two electric boogaloo at this point, which is central plot. It's a central plot point of the film, isn't it? Yes. You've no idea what I'm talking about, have you? No, no. Too young for that. Qualifications. Well, allegedly. Thank you for your time. Where can my listeners enjoy your work, Dan? Not on any motorway bridges. Round of applause, please. Thank you. Take care. Check that film out. Seriously, you could probably get it on VHS. Breakdance two electric boogaloo Joe's in Cambridge. Joe. Question or answer? It's an answer. Please carry on. So, the water vapor. Oh, yes. And, yeah, you are correcting that it is a gas. So that's first thing out of the way. Basically. Water has a property called, it's gonna be a big word here, specific latent heat of vaporization. Specific latent heat of vaporization. Yeah. And that is basically the amount of energy it takes to turn the water or any other liquid from a liquid to a gas. Yeah. So the water isn't turning into a gas spontaneously. There is some energy coming in from maybe sunlight or a flame from underneath the pan or whatever. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so some of the water will turn into a gas at that point. Usually it would happen at 100 degrees, but not necessarily because some. Some things already have a bit of energy and just giving it that little boost will. We'll let it vaporize at a lower temperature. Yep. I think Steve would like a bit of guidance on the difference between vapor and steam. Perhaps if there is one. Vapor can be for any liquid, whereas steam is specifically water. But water vapor and steam are the same thing. Yeah. Water vapor is just saying it's the vapor of water, but it has another name of steam. My friend Scott says. When I was talking to Steve, my friend Scott messaged me that. He said, this is more tense, the Gaza Israel topic, but you've gone definitive, I think, on this and I'm not going to gloat, but I was right and Steve was wrong, which is reasonable. What are your qualifications? I have a physics degree. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Joe. Thank you. No, thank you. Apparently I got beat street mixed up with breakdance two electric boogaloo when the graffiti artist. I'm not sure I did, Luis, but it's been a while since I watched it, so I'm not sure I can. I'm not sure I can get on my high horse on that one, but I will. On the vapor question. 22 minutes after twelve is a time. Nicola is in Berlin. Nicola, question or answer? I have a question, James. Yes. Probably a thousand times in my life I might have had a chocolate bar and feeling guilty afterwards I would have a chewing gum and I never gave it more than 10 seconds thought. But thinking about your mystery hour, I thought I just popped the question. Why is my chewing gum dissolving? Your chewing gum dissolves only if I have chocolate. So there must be some chemical process. I could have googled it, but I thought it might be interesting for him. Everything but this is a. This is a celebration of accumulated knowledge. Exactly. So I kept this question for a week for you. Have you tested it since you came up with the idea of ringing in? I did. I did. And you eat a bar of chocolate? No, I'm intrigued now because I enjoy chocolate. I sort of chew gum sometimes as well. So if you chew and the whole thing dissolves, so you end up with no gum in your mouth, or it just. Well, it gets, like, really gooey. I hope that's the right english word, right after chocolate. So you feel guilty and you think, oh, I should pop in something. Why does chewing gum alleviate the guilt of eating chocolate? Maybe it's just the taste, like, oh, I've rushed my teeth right now. Oh, I see. Oh, okay. No, I do vaguely understand that. And when you say dissolve, you don't mean that it disappears. You mean that it. No, it doesn't dissipate, but it gets really thick. So the chemical. All right, fine. I'm not quite as confused as I was originally. So the chemical constituency of your chewing gum is affected quite badly by the. By the chocolate still. Okay, probably sugar, then. It's probably sugar. It's probably sugar, isn't it? I don't know. So I just thought maybe anybody else has experienced that as well. I never asked the question to anybody else. Fantastic. I mean, I'll tell you what would be amazing, Nicola, if it was only you that this happened to you, if there was something weird about your mouth. You've got some unique scientific. We shall find out for you. Why? Well, presumably everybody. But for now, why does Nicola's chewing gum dissipate and go all weird and gooey if she pops it in her mouth after enjoying a delicious chocolate bar 25 minutes after twelve's the time it was categorically beat street, not breakdance two electric boogaloo, the mad stuff. I already told you how much I love you because you were queuing up to start talking about mystery hour when I'd forgotten I was so heavy embedded in the Israel Gaza conversation, I'd forgotten that mystery hour was up next. The number of people getting involved with the conversation about it was Ramon Falls on the tracks after fighting with spit in Beat Street. Jamie's gone definitive. How many people, how many listeners must you have to a radio program to have a significant number? Not only au fait with breakdance and graffiti based films of the mid 1980s, early to mid 1980s, but also minded to get in touch and correct me on the occasion of me name checking the wrong film. So if you're still listening, Dan, or whatever your name is, if you're still listening, then it's not breakdance two electric boogaloo that you need to get your hands on. It is in fact, beat street. Thank you, Nicola. Thank you, Jamie. Thank you, everybody. To correct me on, I know who did the title track, but you're right, and it is Beat Street. Mark's in high Wycombe. Mark, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Thank you for. Thank you for taking the call. I've got a puzzle for you. Go on, then. Why is it that if you go to a supermarket and buy a bottle of scotch or a bottle of brandy. Yeah. It doesn't have a flammable warming triangle or diamond on the back of the bottle? It is, after all, a flammable liquid. But it's one of the few things that I can find that's flammable, but it's not marked up as such. You take a look underneath your kitchen sink, for example, you find some of your stuff that you use to clean the drains and everything else, it will show a series of hazard warning diamonds. It will be flammable, explosive, corrosive. Yeah. Why is it. But you need to. Well, you. Because you. I'm just thinking about, is it. Is it abv or. I'm thinking, what would it be? Because you're. Because. I mean, denatured alcohol or methylated spirits is going to have the flammable thing on it, isn't it? So maybe that. Maybe they. Maybe they've got a gray area. Because, you see, I used to work as a truck driver and if we were shifting the company I worked for, we would shift perfume. Oh, yeah. Which, again, is flammable. And the trailers that we pulled would have to be marked appropriately with flammable liquid. Yeah, of course, when you're transporting it. But we also pulled whiskey from a big factory in Glasgow, which we took down to Andorra. That is a 45 foot trailer loaded up with scotch. And it didn't require any hazardous warning markings on that trailer at all. That's puzzling. Well, it is until. Until it isn't. And it might be as simple as how flammable it actually is. So you only need a warning on something that goes above a certain threshold? Yeah, there's something called limited quantity, but the thing is, perfume comes in far smaller bottles and whiskey, but it might have a far. But it might be more flammable. It might be more flammable. It could be the flashpoint of it. Nonetheless, if someone can answer this for me, someone's going to try. Don't worry, you're on the board. I'm just thinking out loud. So, I mean, it's a very seasonal question, isn't it? Because we will be dousing our Christmas puddings in. In brandy in just. Just eleven days from now and setting fire to it and enjoying, you know, a very obvious flame. There you go. You have a liter of flammable liquid, but there's nothing on the bottle to indicate that it's flammable. So why is alcohol. Why does alcohol not carry flammability warnings? Thank you. That kind of sums up the question. I wonder if anyone can answer that for me, James. Well, let's find out. Thanks very much. Mind how you go. Thank you. I like that question, actually. I like it quite a lot. Why does alcohol, given that you can set fire to it and use it as an accelerant, of course. Why does it not have any warnings on the bottle? It might put you off your tipple. But that, I mean, I don't know. We shall find out if you know the answer to that question. Or the chewing gum and chocolate question. Or the tea and little finger question. The number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 31 is the time. I think we'll just crack on, shall we? Ian is in Bishop Stortford. Ian, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why are tins like you have baked beans, soup and that type of thing, cylinders rather than squares? For storage purposes. Surely if there was a square, you'd get more in a box if they was than if they were cylinders. Yeah. They're. They're cheaper to make round. Is that as simple as that? Yeah. Oh, okay. Don't ask me what my qualifications are. I think that must be it, mustn't it? Oh, I don't know. I've been racking because there's some tins of spam you can, but they come with key on them, so that's a different proposition. The square tins on corned beef. We've had that question before, but it was the other way round, oddly, is that they were asking, why do some things come in square tins? And the answer is for serving with corned beef and spam, so you can take it out and slice it and it looks nicer than would if it was round. So I presume that the extra cost that where I'm dragging up this knowledge from, is that it costs a little bit extra to ginger soup. Have tall cords, tall rings on them. They do now, mate, but not back in the day back, you know, and it's not, I mean, like, sardines, square tin, spam, square tin, corned beef, fribentos, corned beef, square tin. And it had a key on it. It was different. So the technology has advanced, but they've not the reason why. So the square tins are for slicing purposes? Yeah. I don't know why the sardines. Probably because the sardines want to sit flat in a shallow tin. So it'd look weird if they were. Well, yeah. You can't put sardines in a round tin because half either side of the circle would just be sauce, wouldn't it? There wouldn't be any sardines there because there's pilchards around him. You'd have to do you really? Yeah, yeah. You can get large to the pilchards there around. And what are they upside down? Are they vertical? They're just stalled in. Yeah. Long ways. Like anchovies in a little jar. Yeah, yeah, just like that. Yeah. Yeah, that worked. That doesn't. That doesn't. I don't think that threatens my thesis, Ian, to be fair. So it's just the case of that. It's cheaper to make that type of tin. I think it's stronger as well. I think the physics of it, the circular can, is stronger for transport purposes. And I'm not going to give myself a round of applause on this, on reflection. So why are all the tins in cylinders when you would. If you were stacking it? You'd actually get more in the back of a lorry if they were all square, wouldn't you? Or in your kitchen cupboard. Or in your kitchen cupboard. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. I like that, actually. That's, uh. That's it, yeah. That's a thought provoking question. Why are all the tins round, which is not the same as wire some tins square? I don't think. Although we will find out. Ian, mind how you go. I just get your name down on my list and we'll head to Cheltenham. Andy is in Cheltenham. Andy, what? Question or answer Stewart's inquiry, please, James. Go on. Water vapor and steam. I think your original caller was correct. There is a difference between. That's not what he asked. No, I can answer the question that he asked. No, I know what you're going to say. Go on. Steam is water vapor with water droplets in it. No water droplets. Go on. So, like when you use like a plant sprayer or you go to the barbers and they spray water on your hair, that's an aerosol, that's liquid in air and steam is liquid in air. No, sorry. Water vapor is liquid in air. The steam, the first color was right. If you look above your kettle, there will be a very small gap, which is clear. That's the gaseous state of water above that, where you've got something that looks like a cloud, that's an aerosol, that's water in a gas. That's a liquid suspended in a gas. What, gas? Yeah, mostly nitrogen, just the air. But it's water vapor. It's water suspended in water vapor. When it's coming out of your kettle like that, it's. What? No, because. No, it's air. It's like when you spray out of an aerosol. That is an aerosol. So it's small drops of liquid. They are liquid where all the atoms are. I think this is a complication rather than a clarification, because the question basically was, is water vapor a gas? Right. Well, the answer to that is no. Exactly. No. The answer to that is yes. No, the answer to that is no. Water vapor is a liquid suspended in air. So a cloud. No, that's what steam is. No. Steam is where each molecule is free to move on its own. A gas you may remember from your d in physics. I almost certainly won't. You've got molecules, and when you bind them very tightly together and they bind to each other, you have a solid, and each molecule can't move very far. In a liquid, the molecules are free to move around each other, but they still stay bound to each other so that they fill the shape, they take the shape of the container that they are in. A gas is where each molecule of whatever you're looking at, in this case, water, where each molecule is free to move without binding to anything else of its same, a liquid. But there's no difference between the phrase gaseous phase and gas. Water vapor is the gaseous phase. No, it is not. It is small drops of liquid. So when you use your plant sprayer. Yeah. And you pull the trigger and something comes out. What comes out? A gas. Yeah. No, it's not. No, no. I'm just saying yet, as an encouragement to you to keep talking. It wasn't. I wasn't agreeing. When you pray, you know, squeeze your plant sprayer and out comes something. A fine myth. Okay, so I'm going to read something to you, and then you're going to tell me where you think it came from. Okay. Water vapor is also the most important greenhouse gas in the atmosphere. Okay. It's still not. That's. That's. Where's that from? NASA. Okay. It's not a gas. It is not a gas. That's just common use of, like you say, there is steam above your kettle. What you're actually seeing isn't steam, it's actually water. Heat radiated from the earth's surface is absorbed by water vapor molecules in the lower atmosphere. The water vapor molecules, in turn, radiate heat in all directions. Where did you get this? Did you google this, by any chance, James? No, I'm just doing this from memory. Yeah, yeah. I thought we weren't allowed to google things. I'm allowed to do what I want. I invented all the rules. But that's NASA. Okay, I'd love to hear your public science guy on this, because that's. It's not a gas. It's liquid in a gas, which is an aerosol. So when you spray out of a deodorant, you can. Water vapor is water in gaseous instead of liquid form. It can be formed either through a process of evaporation or sublimation. Unlike clouds, fog, or mist, which are simply suspended particles of water in the air, water vapor itself cannot be seen because it is in gaseous form. So water vapor. But that's not what we were talking about. That's exactly what we. This is worse than the caller in Tel Aviv. I press rewind. We're totally talking about water vapor. Right? In that case, I'm wrong. Water vapor is equal to gas, but that's not what your original caller was asking about. It kind of is, but I think. I think the reason the wriggle room here is that the difference between steam and water vapor. But water does turn into gas. Yes, absolutely. And that. And that, I think. I think answers his question. I think you're more right than I am, but you're also wrong. I think I am wrong because I misunderstood. Water vapor and steam. Yes, but your original question, how can water out of a lake get into the air? Yes. And that is to do with molecules being taken off. Well, it's also to do with evaporation. It's also to do with evaporation. I mean, you can go. Or sublimation. You could go from ice into water. But no, I think what we can all agree on, you, me, Joe, who answered the question originally, and Steve, who asked it, I think we can all agree that I am not the perfect person to referee these sort of questions. I will agree with that, James, but I think you were actually right. Water vapour is the gas. But there is a difference between water vapour, which is what's above the kettle, and steam. Wait, give him a round of applause. Thank you very much. If anyone else rings in on that, ban them. All right? And block their number. Okay? Thank you. Ellie's in hull. Ellie, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on. So this is. I feel very nerdy because this is my one niche area that I know about that I'd like to throw on the alcoholic drinks. So why they don't need to be labeled. Yes. So labeled as flammable for people just joining. Flammable. So, yeah, we've got, I think Yakola said, you know, bottles of bleach and stuff under the sink usually has this kind of red and white diamond on it. Used to be an orange and black box for those who remember back in the day. Yes. And this is because the red and white is called. It's a hazard pictogram under the regulation called CLP, which is the classification labeling packaging regulation in the EU. We've put it in for the UK as well. It's exactly the same. But that regulation doesn't cover alcoholic drinks, it doesn't cover food, so they are not subject to classification labeling under that particular piece of regulation. They have their own. It's the same reason why actually, you know, when shampoos sting, when they get in your eyes, it's because there are hazards associated with that. But cosmetics also don't need to be labeled with hazard pictograms as they would under CLP, because it's kind of self evident. Is it? Yeah. So for something like, if you think about the use, so you're going to be drinking booze or you're going to be putting cosmetics on your face or washing your hair, so there's much more stringent requirements in those specific piece of pieces of legislation, whereas think of CLP as something a bit more general. So general products might fall under that. So there has to be a bit more upfront information to the consumer rather than, you know, if you've already done a real deep dive into something like cosmetics, food, something you're eating, it's already covered, there are no hazards have already been mitigated. You don't need to necessarily communicate a general hazard to the consumer. Qualifications. I'm a regulatory person, I've been doing that for about ten years. My specialty is CLP and contract. Actually, it's undergoing change at the minute, so there's a version whatever coming, and I've been involved in that from an EU perspective, so it's literally my baby. Incredible. How many people are in your line of work, approximately. Well, in my particular job at work? I'm one. I work for a big fTSE 100 company and I'm their CLP expert. There's probably one per big chemical company. So not that many people in the country, then qualified to answer. Well, a few people might know, but I'm the expert in my bit, which is literally what you do for a list. So when this question came out, you couldn't believe your ears. I literally screamed, said to my husband. I was like, I know an answer. So I ran into my office to answer it. Not very well. No, you've done a great. I'm giving you one of these. I'm Ray Lioda and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Oh, this is. No, thank you. There you go. That's Christmas sorted, isn't it? Absolutely. Take care, Ellie. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. Good Lord, it's 1247 already. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We still need answers to the wire tins round that. Lovely answer to the alcohol question. Chewing gum and chocolate. Why does your chewing gum go weird if you've just eaten chocolate? And why do you stick your little finger out when you have drunk tea, when you are drinking tea? Nixon, Lincoln, Nick. Question or answer? Question? Please, James, carry on. Does there become a point where we could add too much weight to a country, like the UK, for example, or a continent, or on the bigger scale, the globe? What, you mean that the ground beneath our feet could break as a consequence of the weight of the. Yeah. So when we build a skyscraper, for example, we know the foundations underneath it, but do we know what's going going on, say, 100 meters below the foundations, is there a tipping point in terms of weight? Because, I mean, if you've got an unidentified cavern or a sinkhole that can open up at any time, and I presume weight is going to be part of it, but I'm working on the presumption. You're referring to solid ground that stays solid. Yeah. So, I mean, if you look at the UK as a whole, for example, we keep developing and developing and importing, say, vehicles en masse, come a point where ultimately the UK, the country itself, says, no, we've had enough, and sink, no, it's not possible. No, it's not possible. And I'm going to explain to you why. Yes. Right. I want you to imagine that you're in the bath. Yeah. Okay. And that your kneecap is poking above the water. Right. Okay. Now, there is nothing that can happen that would push your kneecap below the water. Um. Right. If a skyscraper was built on it would what? On your knee? Yeah. No, it wouldn't. Oh, I see what you mean. You think your foot would slide away. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Let me do this differently. I want you to imagine that you're in a very small bar, right. A sink. A sink, perhaps. This isn't going to work either, because your leg would break. I don't think the knee explanation is going to help you here. That's more about why icebergs don't float away. I thought I might be able to translate it into why you're. So. There's no, there's no. I mean, what. Okay, what about Mount Everest? Right? Why has the. Why has the bottom of Mount Everest not broken? Because we haven't developed on top of Mount Everest. No, but Mount Everest is on top of the ground. Yeah. And because I think Mount Everest was always a part of the ground. No, it wasn't. It would have been pushed up into the air at some point in history by the movement of tectonic plates. I just. I don't know if I can answer your question, so I'll let someone else try, but it's. It's not a question. Right. It's based on a. On a. I mean, so if we got the whole population of the world to come to the Isle of Wight, would the Isle of Wight sink? Yeah. Yeah. No, no. Yeah. But I can't tell you why. Surely everything else is limited. Surely there's a breaking point. No, it's not really. I mean, the. I'm gonna have to let someone else have a go, I just think. Cause for me, it's self evident. But that's not good enough for you, is it? Quite right. Quite reasonably, it shouldn't be good enough for you. I think. I suppose there'd be at least some sort of example of it at some point in the past. Or, I mean, if it was possible, then Nigel Farage would almost certainly have warned against the danger of the United Kingdom sinking into the sea if we didn't cut down immigration, for example. And if even he isn't prepared to twist the truth that far, then we can be fairly confident that the. That the facts wouldn't even begin to support it. But we shall. I shall leave it on the board, Nick. Thank you. You're building on earth the earth wouldn't sink is perhaps one way of answering the question. Glenn's embassled and Glenn, question or answer? Answer, mate. The little finger when you're drinking your tea. Oh, yeah. So. Right. There are several different theories, and I think the most plausible and the ones that most historians agree on is that it goes back to a medieval custom and it's known as a spice finger. So basically, you're at a medieval banquet. You're eating with your hands. Most of the time. You want to keep your little finger up from. Away from your mouth and also away from the food that you're eating. So you don't get covered in sauce or gravy. Yeah. Now, in the center of your table, you're going to have a series of communal pots with things like salt, pepper, nutmeg, and various other spices. So if you want to add a bit of spice to your food, you dip your little finger into one of these pots, nice and clean as much as you can on the back of your little finger, and then sprinkle it across your food. But it happens involuntarily, Glenn. That's because we've seen it happen as far as I know. I'm arguing that it's something learned behavior. Yeah, basically because I don't do it. I've never done it. No, I don't do it. I don't think I do it either. And I know a couple of members of my family do, but usually the older generation, and I've never actually done it, so it would be. So I saw. Yeah, well, that would be a reason to do it, like, historically, wouldn't it? Yeah, and it's not. It's not a lot about a lot of the etiquettes that we take for granted, like putting your elbows on the table, for example. They also goes back to medieval feasting, because most of the time you're sitting on a trestle, you lean on the table, you're going to flip the trestle over. Yeah, I knew that. Yeah, you knew that one. Yeah. Probably because you told me in the past. I don't know. I don't think that one was me. But I only learned that one recently. I mean, but like, I've been looking at a medieval banquet and food a lot recently. My latest historical rabbit hole falling. Oh, yeah. So I've come across that one fairly recently. But like I said, there are other theories, but none of them really prove it. And I'll say it is a theory, James. There is. That's good enough for me. No, that's good enough for me. Qualifications? I'm an absolute history nerd, James. We know that. And do you enjoy darts? Do you remember Eric Bristow doing that with his little finger? Or did I imagine it no, my dad tell me that's not. My dad froze darts because my dad was a teen darts player. He used to keep his little finger up as well. There you go. Maybe sort of throwback to the right. Round of applause. Another round of applause for Glenn, the historian, please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Have a great Christmas. Are you going to deploy any of the lessons you've learned about medieval banquets on Christmas dinner? Always. Every year, mate. They're driving mad. Also, I keep talking to them in old English. They hate it. Glad you're my friend. Glad you're another pint of mead, please, for Glenn. Chris is in St Helens. Chris, question or answer? Thanks. Please, James, carry on. The can question how? They're manufactured by the circular. So basically it comes down to manufacturing cost. It's a lot cheaper and you get a lot more bang for your buck when they're circular, even though you would be able to store more in the same space if they were square. Yeah, but you're using a lot more material if you're making them square. So it comes down to manufacturing cost of the cans themselves. I have got an amazing answer, which I'm going to add to yours from. This is lovely. From princes. You know, princes who make. Some of your former colleagues have been in touch via Twitter. No, no, I've wrote the software systems for them. Oh, I see. So this is literally from Princes Limited, proudly helping families to eat well without costing the earth. Home to Princes Napolina, cross and Blackwell, crisp and dryer. Many more famous brands. And they write, cans are cylindrical, so they can move around the factory more easily. Round edges can roll square, would stack well on trucks, just as the round do, but would be harder to move around a factory. Sardines and other outliers are more complicated. Long time listeners here at Prince's, and then, quite cheekily, they say, they provide me with a picture of a transport system that shows the cans rolling down from canning to labeling and suggest that's worth a rayliota and probably a board game as well, which is. Oh, it can't be that. So. So, no. So they didn't phone in, so they can't win anything. You still. You're still qualifying. So I'm going to add that to yours qualifications. I write the software for the tin can machines, both the presses and the conveyors, fill in cappers and all the above. Just you getting quite a few, aren't you, with your. Well, I'm hoping you can resign my book from Manchester. So I don't know. I'm more than happy to, but I can only one. I mean, two signatures. They're not worth more than I think. The ones that are going to be worth a lot of money, Chris, are the ones that are unsigned. No, I mean, it needs an update and, you know, go for the number that you've received. Yeah, of course. I remember now. Sorry, I'm getting late. It's 1256. I'm half asleep. Another way. You can have another round of applause in the meantime. And what is that? What's the grand total now? Two Rayleigh otters. One round of applause. Two Rayleigh otters. Look at that. Thank you. John's in St. Neots. Question or answer? It's an answer, Jones. Carry on. It's an answer to the chewing gum question. It's. It's not what's going on in your cooler's mouth, by the way. It's actually the fat in the chocolate. Yeah. The fat acting as a solvent, so it dissolving some of the solids in the chewing gum, making it all gloopy and horrible. I have experience of this myself. Not with chocolate. It's definitely not your coolest. No almond butter. Oh, I'll get you. What's wrong with chips. You had almond butter and then you had some chewing gum. Yeah, I do it well. I used to do it quite often until I couldn't handle the gloopiness anymore. Why would you follow? Why would you have an almond butter sort of shot on a chewing gum chaser? Well, if you're having crunchy almond bar, you want to get the crunchy bits out. Oh, yes. Okay, fair enough. That makes perfect sense. Otherwise you could get, you know, an impacted wisdom tooth or something like that. That was my fault. Yes. I had that problem with the snickers once. I enjoyed the lovely snickers and a tiny bit of peanut must have got stuck under my impacted wisdom tooth. It got infected. I was in all sorts of trouble, John. And has it been resolved now? Yeah, well, it has now, but I now brush that particular corner of my mouth with particular care and attention. And sometimes if I've eaten a snickers bar or some nuts, I'll go and brush my teeth, you know, even if it's not bedtime or morning time, just to be on the safe side. Well, we're not. So do you know what I've done to resolve the problem? What? I'll go for smooth arm and bar now. I was going to say that would be an option. That would. Because I. Qualifications. I've got a degree in chemistry. That'll do. I know I'm but a round of applause for John, please. That is it, actually, for today. Thank you for listening. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player. I haven't picked a winner for the board game. It's quite tricky. It's got to be Ellie. I know she got a Ray Liotta. And on previous occasions I've suggested that winning a Ray Liotta disqualifies you from also winning the board game. But I invented this game and I can do what I want. I can even google stuff if I feel like it. It's just you what can't. You can listen back on catch up on global player. Congratulations to Ellie, where you can pause and rewind live radio and you can find out whether words like water vapor or displacement appeared in the course of a conversation with a caller. You'll also find all of our LBC shows to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcasts. Pause and rewind live radio on global player, where you're always in control. Download it for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Sawbrick. But now it's time for Sheila Fogan. Thank you very much, James.