Why do they sell popcorn in the cinema?

With James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is a time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Is it? What do we do, Miss Joe? We did it last week, didn't we? It just feels like we haven't done it for a while. There's one member of the team today who's never done it before and I have to tell you, between friends, poor fellows having kittens, you'll be fine, Jacob. Trust me, it's very easy. Okay, so it's by far the busiest hour that the switchboards at LBC ever, ever see. But you'll be fine. Pushing those buttons, ringing those bells. Just make sure you've got the hallelujah chorus ready. And possibly a Ray Liotta. So, as a private conversation between me and a young colleague stepping up to the plate in spectacular fashion this afternoon. Now, for everybody else, the way this works is it's the radio equivalent of those newspaper and magazine features you've seen, where somebody writes in and says, why do we do this? Where does that come from? What's this? Why? Woo who? The five w's in that play I saw about newspapers. Nice reminder. Who, what, why, where, when and anything goes. You can even have a wither or a whence, if you're so minded. Occasionally we even encounter a wherefore. Point is, you've got a question and it needs an answer. So you ring in and you ask it and you'll see if you're new to this, how wide the goalposts are, how far apart the goal posts are. It can be a very complicated scientific question, or it could be an incredibly simple question about why do we do that? Or I've just seen this thing, what is it for? Two rules. Number one, you're not allowed to look stuff up. So if you hear somebody ask a question, you think, I'm sure I know the answer, that I'll just go and check the encyclopedia, or I'll just go and google it. Don't do that. Because we're trying, somewhat vainly, to swim against the tide of instant gratification. Nothing wrong with Google. I mean, love it, but I love knowledge as well. You know, I love sort of learning what things mean. I was with. This isn't a name drop, it's just an interesting insight into the mindset that I'm describing. I was with Russell Brand earlier in the week and we reminded each other of a time when he was here, being interviewed here. And I used the word he hadn't heard before and he said, what does that mean? So I told him what it meant. And then later that evening I heard him use the same word in another interview on radio four. So I said to him, that's when I knew that your kind of flowery language was the real deal, is that you really share. We both have this real passion for language. I don't want to look stuff up, I want you to tell me what stuff means, because you know. And then it's just kind of nice to celebrate enlightenment and education. It's why one of the most frequent contributors to mister is a professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. It speaks to what he does for a living. But equally, you might have just seen it on Dave last night. That's often the reason why you know the answer to a question. You might have seen it on channel five. It's less likely, but you never know. The point is, I don't care where the knowledge has come from, as long as it's already in your head when you hear the question being asked on the radio. And then the other rule don't be boring. Repetition is kind of a rule, but not really. Just try not to be dull when you're ringing in. Obviously you might not know whether you are being dull or not. So roughly speaking, imagine how many people are likely to be interested in the answer to the question that you want to ask. If the answer is probably just me. James, it's unlikely you're going to get on the board. Caroline and Rosie, their fingers raw during this hour. Things are busy at the best of times, but between twelve and one on Thursday, you wouldn't believe it. Should we crack on? I'll say the number when I've got some phone lines free. Obviously the switchboard ebbs and flows quite a lot because a lot of people ring in and get politely told to move along because we've done that before, or because it's a question about the arterial route around Shrewsbury. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need and we'll start in sale with Phil. Phil. Question or answer? Hi James. I always wanted to have a bit of smarty pants remark for that question if I was first on, but it's a question. There is no smart. You're right, I don't know why do it, but I do. It's a mystery. Carry on every week. Last week I was looking online at one of my favorite authors, Lee Child. I was just looking at some background on it and I came across a list of the top ten best selling authors, one of which is still William Shakespeare. Nice one. Now, I was wondering, I think he was still selling to tuna. Millions of pounds a year. Who benefits from the royalties for William Shakespeare works? Because I don't believe he had any children. But did he have any relatives, brothers, sisters? He had loads of children. He had a son called Hamlet. Mate, that's one of my favorite little bits of trivia. I hope I've remembered that correctly. Well, there you go. Does Hamlet have any descendants who are currently quoting institute of 10 million pounds a year? You don't. There's a limit. It's not dissimilar to the question last week about Cliff Richard, about happy birthday. There's a limit on royalty. So, you know, you're a man who likes books, so you probably noticed. Remember a few years ago, although you're younger than me, I sense I'm quite a lot older, but never mind. Are you really? You got a very young man's voice. Do you remember? Then? You will remember a few years ago, they started knocking out the classics. For about 99 pence a pop, you would go into Kindle as well. Yeah. And that's the answer to your question. So I think it is. In most countries, it's the end of the author's life, plus a number of years, and in Britain, it's. I'm going to fall on this one. It's either 50 years or 70 years. So there's no little scheme here, if that's what you're thinking, where you could just smuggle in and suddenly pick up all the royalties to Shakespeare's. Shakespeare's play. And I think if you have published a version of the play and it's performed, you might be entitled to something. I'm not 100% sure about that, but certainly in terms of buying a book written by someone who's been dead for more than 70 years, no estate and no author gets a royalty. It's going straight to the publisher. Yeah. And that's why they can afford to knock out those classics for next to nothing. And I remember when, before Kindles came along, I can't remember what it was called, but it was a whole line of sort of 19th century classics that came out, Jane Austen and the Brontes and all that sort of thing, and Dickens, and you could get them for buttons. It was brilliant. They were cheap editions, but it was still the same words inside. In that case, you can give yourself a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. How old are you? Before the round of applause comes I'll be 50 next year. Are you serious? You sound about 24. That's great. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. And there it is. Jacob's first round of Jacob. I was fine. What you're worrying about. You played a blinder. Matthew's in Stockport. Matthew. Question or answer? Question, James. Carry on for years because my mum used to say it in very sort of posh company. You said it this morning, actually. Oh, yeah. Before you did a little bit of a swear, you said, excuse my French, or pardon my French. Where does that even come from? I think. I don't know if I'm gonna get a round of applause for this, but I think we. After the norman invasion, didn't we do our swearing in French? I mean, all rude words were french. You're doing this thing now. You're trying to talk yourself into thinking. You know, I try to think of examples. You're right. You're absolutely right. People are listening to this program far too closely. All my foibles. It's like being at home. All my foibles and failings are being held up for public ridicule. No, I'm not going to get it. You're absolutely right. I am. I'm scrabbling around in the dark, hoping to get an answer. But why do we say pardon my French and then swear? Or after we've sworn, pardon my friend? Yeah, you're on. I like it. Does your mum is. I mean, it's touch of the highest in bouquets. Was it when your mum was doing it? Yeah, something like that, yeah. Could you do me a big favor as well, whilst I'm on? Would you wish Naf, my manager a good day? Because he's an avid mystery hour fan. Of course I can. Naz with an s, is it? No, Nav with Aff. Naff. Are you sure you're not. Yeah. Okay, you're on. Nafta. What is it his birthday or just wish him a good day? Just wish him a good day. One of my oldest friends is called Matthew and he comes from Stockport. And oddly enough, I call him math Ma. Aff. But you can't just ring in and ask me to say hello to people. It's got to be a special occasion. All right. All right. Well, coach, it's 905,000 people listening. If they all rang in and asked me to say hello to a mate where we'd never do anything else. Matthew. Yeah, but you've made his day now. You've made his day look dead short. Thank you very much. All right, well, we're not setting a precedent. All right? This is just for NAfta and it's a gift from Maff and me. It's not for anyone else. Don't ask, because the management doesn't want to cause offence by refusing. Twelve minutes after twelve, we've got one on the board. Pardon my French. Zero. 345-606-0973 David is in Hornshire. David, question or answer? I've got a question. James, carry on, mate. Are surgeons allowed to chat during surgeries? Like, just chit chat? Yeah. Not like. Not like just ask to pass the scaffold. But I like to talk about their love life and their. Yeah. Finances and all that. Yeah. Talk about the football, talk about a conversation. Yeah, they are. Because on one hand, you think that they can better. Have to be focused. Yeah. Well, I mean, are you on hands free at the moment? I am, yeah. And what are you doing? I'm just stuck in traffic. All right, well, you could have been driving. Yeah. While talking. That's true. Yeah. And with a surgeon, the bits that are really tricky. He's not going to be sort of. He's not going to be going in and sort of slicing you up in a really intimate fashion if he's also talking about the football, but if he's kind of. If they're just mopping up or they're just. Someone else is cutting you open and they're waiting for. Yeah, they talk a lot. I know this because I got a friend who's a surgeon and they do have definitely have conversations, because she said to me once, we were talking about your show in theatre today, so I know that they were talking about this show, which means it could not possibly have been a serious conversation. I wonder if I have someone on hand, though, can sort of go, right, guys, calm it down. Well, you wouldn't need it because the main. The consultant will be in charge. So, I mean, everybody is a very, very deferential hierarchy in a surgical theater. The main man or woman is like a God in that kind of context, so that they would very, very much set the tone of how everybody else behaved. You wouldn't dream, as a junior anaesthetist, of kind of trying to banter with the nurse if the surgeon didn't want you to. There'd be no flirting. There might be a bit of flirting. I know. I mean, these hospitals are like, you know, knocking shops sometimes, to be honest with you, but I don't think there's a. It's all set. The tone is entirely set by the surgeon. So if the surgeon. Some surgeons will love a bit of chitchat, some play classical music, some put on Monty Python audio. Everything is set to the surgeon's preferences and that can include conversation. Fair enough. You got a first answer here. There we go. Thank you very much. Round of applause, Jacob, come on. Oh, it was going so well. It was going so well. Just. I'll just do it myself. David. No. All right. Shall I do it then, David? Thank you, mate. And I'll join in with David. There we go. All right. Just in time for this. We're going to go to the break now. Are you ready? Boom. This is LBC. When you're 73, 90 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Pardon my French. If I was wrong about the questions I've answered, which were about royalties and copyright and surgeons in surgery, then feel free to launch a stewards inquiry. But you better have your wits about you if you are minded to do that. I've got some phone lines for you. Three, actually, so be quick. If you phoned in with questions that haven't made the grade, deal with it. My apologies, but I need the phone lines for people who do make the grade. And by that it just has to be a question that is interesting and hasn't been dealt with before. Zero. 345-606-0973 or rather that we can't remember dealing with it before. I mean, we've done it for so long now, there's no earthly way we could keep that rule in place unless we had some sort of robot brain. But generally speaking, that's the deal. Bring in, ask your question. If we haven't done it before and we like it, we think it's interesting. We'll put it on the board. If you hear somebody ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same. It's 20 minutes after twelve. Mark is in Hatfield. Mark, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Mark. James, we would like to know what astronomers see when they look through a radio telescope. We have an optical one at home and what a brilliant question because it's one of those things that you hear all the time and you never really. What you're asking is, what is a radio telescope? Well, I kind of understand what it is. Well, tell me, will you? Because I don't. Well, we drove past the one at Jodrell Bank a few years ago and it's obviously a big dish and they pick up electrowaves or radio waves, but when they're captured. What does it say? What do they. What do the astronomers see? Exactly? Exactly. Who's we? Are you just being royal or. It's the family? We have these conversations around the dinner table. I love it. I think that's brilliant. I don't want to feel pressure's on now, otherwise it's going to be. It's going to be a very quiet dinner. I was expecting you to come up with the answer. No. I've just got told off by Wayne Embassildon in his inimitable fashion. He said, I'll read it to you. Actually. He said, you're. Yeah, here you go. It's turning into challenge, James. Wind your neck in, Duchess. So I will. I will endeavor to wind my neck and I don't know the answer that. So even if. Even if I did, I mean, I couldn't. Mark. Thank you. What do you see? What do astronomers see when you are looking at a radio telescope as opposed to an optical telescope? I think David knew more about that issue than I do, but he doesn't know the answer to that bit. Andy is in Cardiff. Andy, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question. Go on. It's about wagon wheels. My grandparents used to have a wagon wheel outside their old country home. You often see them outside pubs? I don't know where they came from. Do you still see them outside? I mean, maybe the odd harvester, but not a proper pub. Well, usually in the country and, you know, stuck on a wall or outside the front door or something, but, yeah, they keep cropping up. It's just like. It's just like furniture. It's just like. I mean, they're a bit naff. No offense to your grandparents, but that's all it was. There was no. There's no purpose to it. So, you know, people kit out pubs, they quite often have a bit of old sort of country junk in there, and a wagon wheel would fit perfectly into the equation. They probably kept spare wagon. They probably. Hang on a minute, I've only just started. They probably kept spare wagon wheels there back in the day, didn't they? Because, you know, a pub was often a trading post or a stopping off point on a long journey. If you needed to change your wagon wheel, there'd quite often be a sort of blacksmiths or a stabling facility attached to a pub. We know that from our dickens, Andy. So there's probably a historical reason for wagon wheels being in the proximity of pubs. But if you're asking why they're there now, I mean, there is no other answer than decoration. Okay, well, don't say it like that. Okay? Just said it like that again. It's. I'm not convinced. I'm not convinced. Did your grandparents have a coffee table made out of a wagon wheel? No, it was outside the front door and it was definitely a home and never a pub. But you're asking about pubs. I know you're asking about houses and pubs. So why did white. All right, so you think there is an answer different from back in the day? Some. Some premises had spare wagon wheels outside them in case a wagon wheel, a wagon driver needed a new wheel. But since wagons stop being a popular mode of transport, the only reason to have a wagon wheel in your front garden, whether you're a pub or a. Or a home, is for decoration. You think there's going to be a better answer than that? I'd like to put it out there. Right, fine, mate. I'll put it on the blinking board then. All right. Happy? Thank you very much. Absolutely fine. That's fine. Yeah. Okay. Let's find a better answer for why people have got a wagon wheel in their garden, other than the fact that they think it looks nice. Zero. 345-606-0973 what do you see? If you're using a radio telescope, what do you actually see? And the origins of the phrase pardon my French, please. All on the usual number. Paul is in Newark. Paul, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on, mate. I went to the cinema last week with my daughter. What did you say? We watched despicable me three. Any good? Very good, actually. Pretty good. Kids have seen it, but they went without me and I can't really go on my own. I'll wait till it comes out on sky. Carry on. I probably enjoyed it more than she did. That's often the way with the really good kids films these days, isn't it? Jokes are deliberately put there for us. Same with Pixar. Exactly. So the question I've got, James, is, what's the relationship between cinemas and popcorn? Because we went at, what, quarter, 10:00 in the morning and everybody was there having a box of popcorn, but you never see it anywhere else. So what's the relationship between cinemas and popcorn? I mean, I'm not going to answer this because Wayne's told me to wind my neck. Actually didn't. What did he say? Let someone else have a go. Duchess was his exact term of phrase. Don't laugh, you'll only encourage him. But the beginnings of the answer would be that in this country, you're right. To say that you don't see it anywhere else, but in other countries, you wouldn't necessarily be right. Okay. But that is just me sort of trying to have my cake and eat it by proving that I do know, but then expect. Yeah. Having my popcorn and eating it by not only proving that I do know, but also trying to get some credit for not showing off about knowing, which I haven't show off. Fill your boots. Yeah. There you go. Popcorn and cinema. Why? Zero 345-606-0973 Amy is in upminster. Amy, question or answer? Question. Please carry on. So a paying display is when you go and put, like, a pound or 50 p pencil into the machine and it just falls out, but then you take it out, you scratch it on the side of the machine and put it back in and it registers it. Yeah. It doesn't. It doesn't. It does. No, it doesn't. It doesn't work every time, does it? Pretty much. No, no, it doesn't work every time, does it? It's a yes. No question. Does it work every time? Maybe not every time, but it does work. No, no, no, it doesn't work because if you hadn't scratched it and you'd carry on putting it in time after time after time again, eventually it would have worked. Do you think? I know. If you look at pain, display machines are constantly scratched. Yeah. Because a lot of people believe it. It's an urban myth. It's not true. I mean, I was told that you lick it as well. Oh, okay, well, that's a bit gross. So what I used to do. I don't know that. How dare you argue with me? You know, lots of people think it's true, but it isn't. We've done this before, and a bloke who rang in literally makes pay and display machines or empties them. It's categorically not true, but we believe that it is. So it's a psychological experiment because you will never have the control. Do you see what I mean? You could never have the same coin, unlicked, being put in the slot again or unscratched, being put in the slot again and again and again. People swear blind that it's true because it's worked. You've done it. It's got dropped through the bottom. You've scratched it, you've put it in, it's worked. So you're sure that that's the reason, but there's no causality effect. There's no, no, no link between the two. Correlation does not causation make, Amy, you know that. So I've just been vandalizing pair and display machines all the time. Well, I didn't know that you'd actually been. So you've been scratching them on the side of the machine? Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Is the short. Yes, the short run? No, good point. That's why I kind of always went down the licking route rather than the scratching route, because it causes less damage to the kind of environment around me. But yes, you have been unnecessarily vandalizing. Mild vandalism. I don't think we're going to call the authorities. But you'll probably carry on doing it, won't you? Even though I've told you that it's bogus. No, I'm not, I'm not. I'm going to. I'm going to see if you're right. And then next time you do, just keep putting it in. Put it in three or four times and eventually it will work and you'll never know. And unfortunately, Wayne's advice notwithstanding, I'm going to take a round of applause to this. Oh, wow. Oh, Jacob. He wasn't messing about with that one, was he? Seen the tweet that's just come in saying, I hope Jacob enjoyed his time working at LBC. Amy, thank you very much indeed. 1227 is the time Lindsay is in Weybridge. Lindsay, question or answer? Hello. It's an answer. Carry on, Lindsay. So it's about the radio telescope. Excellent. As opposed to an ordinary telescope, which allows us to see visible light. Yes. A radio telescope basically allows the explorer to see invisible light in the form of radio waves. And therefore we can interpret the shape of the universe through magnetic fields and kind of get a blueprint of the big bang. Look at things like pulsars and quasars, rather than just seeing what we can see with light. You're over the line, but I need a bit more. So when I look at the screen, is it a screen that I would have. So it would be a screen. And basically the radio waves being emitted from deep space use a mechanism within the telescope, which, unfortunately, I don't know exactly how it works. Don't worry, mate, you're playing a blinder. Transforms that into light, which the explorer can then see with their eyes, which they wouldn't be able to see if they weren't using the telescope. So the screen would just be a kind of graph, would it? Well, it would be. It would almost be something like, say, a thermal imaging camera. Almost. Oh, okay. It would all. I mean, it wouldn't be exactly that. Be something along those lines where you get to see where there are forces in the universe, kind of the shape of the universe, where there's black holes and things hypothetically from the electromagnetic fields and the radio waves rather than visible light, because obviously there's not that much visible light in the universe. No. So, I mean, that's a great answer. What are your qualifications, Lindsay? How do you know this? Well, this is probably why I'm not going to get a roll after. But a couple of weeks ago it was explained in great depth by Brian Cox on a documentary called how the universe works. Some people don't believe me when I say you don't have to have a PhD in quantum physics to get a round of applause. You might just have seen it on telly last night and now you've proved it. But you're right, you don't get a Rayleighotor for that. I could have lied, but I'd have seen through it. Good work, Lindsay. Coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Questions that still need answers. Pop corners. Wagon wheels. It sounds like everyone's gonna be hungry. Do you have to be my age? You still do wagon, Jacob? Do you get wagon wheels at your age? You're familiar. Yeah, you're familiar with wagon wheels. So, popcorn. Wagon wheels. And pardon my French, it's 12:30 Thomas Watts is here with the headlines. Police are now searching five properties over the 325 minutes to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. A bit cross with Alex is the last time I listened to atmister, James Ob's mystery era, it was custard slices. Now it's wagon wheels. It's a terrible show for my nutrition. That means you only listen about twice a year. Alex, I'd tell you off, but I just noticed you worked for a news agency in Birmingham that my late father used to be in daily contact with. So I'll let you off back to questions that still need answers. Origin of the phrase. Pardon my French. We've done a surgeon, we've done the radio telescopes. Why do people have wagon wheels in their garden? I've just received a possible answer from Michael, the black cab poet, which will leave me having a small slither of humble pie if he turns out to be correct. And the relationship between cinemas popcorns. Is that it? Anything else? Anyone else for anything else? That will do nicely. Nothing close to a Ray Liotta yet today, but that would be nice. Ray Liotta would be, for example, on the radio telescope question, if someone rang in, who is the head astronomer at Jodrell bank? You see someone whose qualifications to answer a question are so supreme that we all take a moment to marvel at them and play a brief clip of Ray Liotta speaking exclusively for this program in a kind of reimagining of his famous catchphrase from our field of dreams. Are you still with me at the back? Good. Oliver's in Macclesfield. Oliver, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. It's a bit of a. Kind of a recondite one, this one. Oh, great word. Yeah. You know hairdressers and barbers. Yes. Why are they never open on Mondays? Easy. Everybody else is open on Mondays and from, like, Monday to Saturday. But they seem to be Tuesday to Saturday. Yeah, I mean, they're open on. They're shut on Mondays because they're open on Saturdays. And you will now come back and say, yeah, but lots of other places are open on Saturdays, but they'll have rotors. Whereas in. My mate Tony Arthur Razor on North on Churchfield Road in Acton told me this. And I mean, he's an actual barber. He's actually a brilliant hairdresser. Barber makes him sound a little bit brutal, but no, no, no. He puts oil on your beard and all sorts of malarkey. He's a brilliant, brilliant. He's the fellow that turns me from grizzly Adams into somebody who looks like a boy band member when I'm doing tv programs. He's absolutely incredible. If you want to ever passing through Acton, mate, I know you're in Macclesford, it's a long way to travel for a haircut, but you've got to go and see Tony Arthur Razor is the name of his acting. In Cheshire? No, Acton, in flipping west London. Oh, I'm hardly like to see the passing flight. I just said that. I just said, I know. I appreciate a bit of a hop, skip and a jump for a haircut if you're coming all the way from Macclesfield. But, you know, special occasions next month, actually, so could do that. They will pop in and see, ask for Tony and Arthur Rosa in act and he'll sort you right out. And he. Sometimes. I probably shouldn't say this because it's a little bit billy big bananas. Very occasionally, if I need an emergency haircut because I've got some late work on, the goggle box comes in, he'll do me on a Monday, he'll meet me there. On a Monday, lift up the shutters, give me a quick Bosch and then send me on my way. And the reason why he doesn't open. Why, because you don't have enough staff is the short answer to run like a shop rotor, where you'd have probably. You see what I mean? Yeah. Because they're all skilled, aren't they? Bingo. It's like a cashier where you can just get someone in. So you've done it, you've answered your own question. Yeah. Okay. There must be other examples of that, though, because, I mean, GP surgeries open on the fishmongers. Fishmongers don't usually open on Mondays, but that has more to do with the fact that their fishermen aren't out on a Sunday. Is mongering fish actually like that difficult? No, but you've got. You can. You've got to have fish to sell it. And if they're not fishing on the Sunday, you can't get it into the shop on the Monday. So they don't open on the Monday. The fishermen are out on the Monday, so you can get it into the shop for the Tuesday. It's a slightly old fashioned, or indeed recondite, piece of. Piece of knowledge, but it doesn't apply anymore because of refrigeration and freezing. But historically, fishmongers, my local fishmonger, still shuts on Mondays. Okay. And I suppose. What about things like. The thing is, a lot of the old shops have disappeared, haven't they? Not a reggie bianchi, though, Oliver, that's still there. It is, yeah. Yes. We talked about this last time. And you need a discount. I could go in there and mention your name, but the thing is, even with a discount, last time I went in there, they said, the bins around the back, please don't use this entrance again. Don't be cheeky. I mean, you need to find the right Bianchi, the lad I went to school with, Nick. You need to find him and he'll see you. Right. Okay. All right. Do you deal on some anti macassars? Can we make. Recondite the word of Dave, mister? I think we can. I think we can. I think we just have. But I've also got a round of applause to pocket, of course. Okay. Well done. Thank you, Oliver. Thank you. Covered a lot of space there. I'll mate with a barber shop, mate with a hair salad on, beg your pardon, in acton and a mate with a furniture shop in Macclesfield. Ian's in Ashford. Ian. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Likewise, the answer to pardon my French. Carry on. I believe it goes back to the. Just after the Norman invasion, obviously, us british English were a little bit unhappy about that. Yes. So when many Normans would wander around the country looking, buying goods or going into a pub or anything, and they would immediately start speaking in French, and then, of course, they wouldn't be understood or were considered the enemy. So then they would. Obviously, they would then say, pardon me, pardon my French, and try and speak in pidgin English. I don't. I kind of. I don't think you're right. I think you're going to give me a hard. Well, I know only because this is kind of what I thought, and I put it back on the board because I didn't think I'd gone definitive, because, I mean, obviously you're. You wouldn't have had even a. I think it'd be the late 18th, early 19th century before you even had a wide appreciation among the kind of hoi polloi of the linguistic distinction. So it's almost as if you're apologizing for being clever. Pardon. Rather than apologizing for swearing. I think it's not the swearing, it's the actual use of French. Yeah, but it wouldn't be going back to norman times because the average pleb wouldn't have used any Norman at all until probably 14th, 15th century. Right. I bow to your knowledge. I'm pretty confident about that. I knew this is a bad idea. No, it's a great idea. I mean, crikey. You know, it's perfectly possible I'm completely wrong and you're completely right, but I don't. I don't. I don't think it would be back to the kind of 11th century. I just. I can't. Can't quite see it because it wouldn't be English. They wouldn't be speaking what we recognize as English then, either, let alone Norman. No, I'm going to give you a round of applause because you are clearly suffering. Come on. So that's out of charity, but don't. No, exactly. I could tell you did, and you got one. And I don't want you to feel it's in any way diminished by the fact that it was an act of charity. Ian. Have a great day. It's 1241 Simon's in Newcastle. Simon, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. My question is, why do women in Peru and Bolivia traditionally wear bowler hats as part of their traditional dress? Are you sure? Yeah. If you do a quick Google image of peruvian. Can't use Google during mystery. I might. Can't use Google during mystery. That's one of the great offenses. I'll take your word for it. Sure about that one. And so you've got their ponchos on and then they've got their bowler hats as well. Hang on. I am going to have a look. Peru bowler hat. I mean, you just, you might have imagined. Oh, hang on. No, you're right. There's loads. Well, I never. They're quite big bowler hats. They're a bit kind of. They're a bit like Oliver twisty. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. And I didn't know if it was a cowboy hat or if it's a traditional. A traditional peruvian bowler hat. Well, I suppose the answer. Well, that might be. The answer might be. Why not? Well, yeah, I've not got a bowler hat. Mine. But you're not a peruvian woman. No, it's a tradition. Why don't, you know? It's just grown up as a tradition. I'm out. I'd like to know a little more. If anybody can shed any light on this fascinating ethnographic development on the program, I'd love to hear it, but it might just, I mean, why the cowboys wear cowboy hats, Simon? I don't know. I'm only allowed one question. No, I know, but I'm just saying why do, why do, why do we know people in boats wear boaters? Maybe the cowboy hat has to do with the sunshine, you know, but that might be the bowler hat as well. But they're cool. Keeping the sun out of your eyes too much. No, you're right. And baseball cap would be the same reason. It's why it's got the peaked front. So. All right. Why the peruvian lady wear bowler hats? There we go. Thank you. You're on. No, thank you. A lovely question. And great pictures. I had no idea. I thought he was dreaming. 1243. Martin's in St. Albans. Martin, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on. Martin, you're wrong about the coin thing. No, I'm not. I'm afraid you are. I'm afraid. Okay. I've asked your superior knowledge of vending machines, which I've been designing and making for 30 years, but you could. What's your greatest hit? Okay, so in the coin mechanism, they're all kind of sensors that quickly photograph, analyse the methyl, do all sorts of things in a second. So if you've got a dirty coin and you scratch it allows the sensor to work. It doesn't always work. But say that it can't work is wrong. It can work. Can you prove it. I'm gonna have to apologize to Amy now. Yeah, I'm sorry, you will have to. So licking it would be the same because licking it would be a form of cleaning it. Well, what happens is it photographs the speed that the coin flashes past. So let's say if it was really, really dirty, it might flash through a bit quicker because it's heavier. And let's say you rub the dirt off. I'm really cross about this because I argued furiously the opposite way around and someone persuaded me that I was wrong and now I've got the zeal of a convert and now you're converting me back again. You could give me a ray if you want to. You're not getting a ray, mate, unless you. I mean. I mean, come off it. What kind of vending machines? You didn't invent vending machines. You just. You just. You just tinker with them. Is that. That's been your career. Literally. Design them. What's the highlight of your career? What is. I mean, have you made vending machine history? No, I don't think so. Well, then you can't have a Rayleigh. You can't have a rally. What's your. I mean, what's your proudest moment in the vending machine business? Talking to you. James, shut up. Seriously. I mean, do other vending machine engineers know your name? Would they go, oh, Martin, yeah. Whoa, we will not see his, like, again? I don't think so. But I've spent years working with coin mechanism manufacturers and if you want to know anything about coin mechanism, sadly, I'm the man. You're the man? And that would apply to everything from. I mean, are there any secrets you can tell me that to prove your credentials? Is there like a secret code I could use to get free food out of vending machines and stuff like that? Yes, there is. Sure. I'm not going to tell you. No one's listening. Seriously. No, honestly, if you go there and you know the numbers where you press. Wait there. Jacob. Press that button so no one else can hear. And I'm just gonna have a private conversation with mine. Go on. Mine. Tell me what the numbers are. Yeah, of course. So you go to one of those machines where you press an h 42 to get a Mars bar or something with a certain toad. You can just do it for free. But what is this? I'll give you a Ray Liotta. I'll give you a Ray Liotta if you tell me. No one's listening. But we've got to come back in a minute. Oh, come on. I'll be banned from the industry forever. It's like the magic. Have a random. Good work. My apologies to Amy. Apparently it does work. Mine sounded like the real deal to me. It's 1246 coming up at one on lB. 73. It is. Ten minutes to one. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery act continues. Why popcorn at the cinemas? Why do bolivian ladies wear bowler hats? What does a wagon wheel outside her house mean? Michael, the black cab poet, he's given such a good answer to that. If I don't get an answer by 01:00 I might break the habit of a lifetime and actually share it because it's coming via Twitter. Michael, you could ring in origin is the phrase part. My french is still on the board as well, I'm afraid, because I don't think it was that answer that kind of bubbles under the surface when that question pops up. The swearing in, Norman after the invasion. It doesn't make sense historically to me, but I could be wrong. In which case you'll have to share the round of applause with was it Ian? Anyway, the fellow who just offered up that answer. 1251 is the time. I'm full of cold at the moment. I apologise if it's coming across on the radio, but I've got to do another two hour show after this somewhere else, so I'm a little bit worried about how my throat's going to hold up. Simon is in slough. Simon, what would you like to say? Hi, James. Yes. Sorry to hear about your cold. That's very kind of you. Question or answer? A question, sir. Carol, I've got a question. It's, um. When was the furlit? When were the first cremations recorded by mankind? What was the earliest cremation? The Vikings did it. Yeah, I know the Vikings did it. I was wondering if anything earlier. Yeah. Presumably it went with ceremonial burial. Yeah, with early religion. I think they hit the Indian. Send you out the Ganges on fire, don't they? Yeah. Well, I don't know. I mean, I like that question, actually. Why do you want to know? Well, my wife asked it the other day. He was just wandering about it. And. First recorded cremations. Yeah. Yeah. It's a cheerful topic of conversation. It is, isn't it? I like that. Now, I like the questions that you've never thought of before. First recorded cremation that the Vikings, I think, used to throw the widow on the funeral pyre as well, so that you could accompany your warrior husband to Valhalla Rick is in Leicester. Rick, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's that popcorn one. Just remind me exactly what the question was. It was whether. What's the deal with. There's 905,000 people listening to this. I can't be giving bespoke reviews of what's already gone on the program to individual callers. Sorry. That's all right. You're here now. Why do we eat it in the cinema? Why is it so pop? What's the relationship between popcorns and cinemas? Well, I think it originated in. Well, it was discovered in America when they were looking. When they were discovering America, and it was found as being used as confetti because it was so in abundance, because of, obviously, corn being everywhere in America. This isn't going well, Rick, is it not? No, mate, you know, it's not. Obviously, there's loads of it. So they started using it in the nineties, in the cinemas. Realized the nineties? No, not the early 20th century. Sorry. In the cinema. You can't just say, obviously they started using it in the cinema. The question is, why did they start using it in the cinema? Well, it was so cheap to make that they used to hack up the price and then they realized it made everybody so thirsty, so then they. I know, I get. I get that. That's not the reason. Why did popcorn become a popular snack in cinemas and nowhere else was the question. Because if it. Because you should serve it in pubs. If it hacks up the price and makes everybody thirsty. I think it was kind of a bit of a staple food in America. But why cinemas? Why not? I knew that was going to end badly. Joe's in Birmingham. Joe, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Joe. With reference to the French. Excusing French. Yes, I believe it comes from. This was an interview I listened to from Andrew Marr a number of years ago. Oh, yes. And he was. He was putting forward the concept that the French have always been our natural enemies. Yes. Excusing World War one and two, we have always fought the French from the 16 hundreds. And coming from the military, I've also heard this french derogation all the time, so we. Syphilis was known as the french disease. French leave. French leave is a thing, isn't it? If you turned out and parade badly, it was french dress. Right? If you needed a condom, you used a french letter. If the lads were being warned about going to a house of ill repute, it was often referred to as a french house. So it just becomes a synonym for dodgy. Really? Really? Yeah. And french practices as well. Yes. If it was shoddy work, your sort of company commander would say, there's french practices here, lads. It just generally a derogatory term. So if you did genuinely speak French, you would apologize. That's. No, seriously, that must be what it is. So if you. If you and I are having a chat and I said, oh, you know, nomdon Shan. Oh, pardon my French. And that might follow on from the norman invasion, because, you know, a few hundred years, a couple of hundred years later, the posh people. Charles, I was still speaking French in court, so. Oh, yes, royalties bespoke French well into the regency period, didn't they? That's right. So if you're out and about and you drop into a bit of French because you've forgotten what company you're in and you're actually hanging out with some horny handed sons of the soil, rather than some regency fops, you might add, at that point. Oh, pardon my French. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It sort of all ties up in the end with a bow, I suppose. I think you played a blinder there, Joe. Anyway, enjoy your show, mate. Hang on a minute, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you very much. Lovely answer. I think he's right as well. Hard to imagine that the, you know, before the kind of front end of the 20th century, our relationship with France was one of almost eternal warfare. But we're probably heading back in that direction anyway, so watch this space. Drew's in haze. Drew, question or answer? Hello, mate. It's an answer. Carry on. Drew, what have you got? It's for the peruvian hats. Yes, they're designed. Well, they're not designed like that, but they act like a chef's hat. So they cool their heads, but the brim protects them from the sun. And because if you look at them, they're the bowler hats, but they're a little bit taller than a normal bowler hat. They are. But how did they end up in Peru? I have no idea about that. But the one I heard from was my friend's Nan, who is actually from Peru, who wears one. But she's given you those. She's given you the why not the wherefore, hasn't she? I mean, because that's the same reason that all hats, or most hats, are worn to regulate temperature or to shade the eyes. Indeed. But maybe they just realized that they worked a little bit better than we need to know. How did the bowler hat get to Bolivia, drew? From the european travellers. Yeah, I think you're probably right. But you just said that off the top of your head and you made it too obvious by giggling at the end. It would have. It would have been from the european travellers. Railway workers. Yeah. Who built the railways into. Who built the railways into South America. Would have been a mixture of people, wouldn't it? I think that could be the bottom. Should we share a round of applause or do you think you deserve all of it? I reckon you could use share it. I would like. I would like the whole lot. I mean, if I had more time, I could probably get the nan on the phone and probably. Probably get a rally off of you. But I've got. If she could explain it. Apparently Maggie and Woodford is rung in with the railway thing as well, so we'll split it three ways. I can't get your nan involved. It. I can't get your nan involved at this stage. Come on. What place for Maggie as well? Phil's in Shrewsbury. Phil. Question or answer? An answer and a joke for you to tell the girls when you get home. Go on, then. Which one do you want first? Give me the answer. Answer. Cremations. Well, it was neolithic, mate, because I've seen Tony Robinson. They've got him at Stonehenge. They found burnt remains at Stonehenge. Neolithic. And the joke, what's a magician's favorite dog? Gone. A Labrador. Dabra daughter. That's awful. I know. They're already reaching that stage where they look at me as if Cedar Fogarty likes it. It's all about choosing your audience, Phil. Sheila Fogarty likes it. This is my favorite joke for children. You want that one? Go on. What's this? Don't know. James. What is that pair of pants? Oh, God. I don't like that. Go on. I don't like Tommy Cooper type humor. Fair enough. But Labracas abrador is just silly. I like that. There's no accounting for taste. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten the next watch. You know. She's already here. I'm here. There you go. You've lost your big intro. No, never mind. Thanks very much. James. From three today, 150 quid, three nights, all in, including alcohol, at a country house hotel. Oh, and it's your friend's wedding, as you're paying for it, by the way. Fair deal. I know you spoke about this as well, but I can't resist it. Fair deal. Or is it the least classy approach to a wedding? Imaginable. Two questions today about the law and medical interventions. A judge's rule. There is no need for the court's involvement in decisions to withdraw food and drink from patients in deep.