What happens if you refuse to give your name when you're arrested?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. We have a little bit of business to attend to before mystery hour gets underway, but that shouldn't prevent you from booking your berth on the board. Booking your berth on the board. There you go. There's another slogan. Stick it on a t shirt, have it on sale by Christmas. If you have a question which is in desperate need of an answer, a question that will be interesting and enlightening to everybody else listening, not just a question relevant to you, like, where did I leave my keys? Then ring zero. 345-606-0973 how long has that been? The phone number Axel now 304 5606-0973 is the number that you need. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same and you run a very real risk of achieving a mystery hour. Round of applause. One of the highest accolades that british radio can afford. The very, very highest accolade that british radio can afford is, of course, a Ray Liotta, which you will receive if your qualifications for answering a question correctly are so unbelievably apposite that the rest of us can only sit there agog and admire your excellence. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need before that. Theo Uswood, our political editor, is here because Sajid Javid has made one of his early interventions as our new home secretary, with specific reference to the debacle that saw his predecessor defenestrated the Windrush scandal. There is going to be a new scheme, the Windrush scheme, to enable those caught up in the scandal to apply for british citizenship. Of course, they are already british citizens free of charge, and that will come into force next Wednesday, May 30. Now, he is laying a statutory instrument today. Usually that's secondary legislation, by the way, rather than having to go through the normal process, but he's speeding that up to break what is the 21 day rule, which would use, usually allow, which is usually in place to make sure there's proper oversight of any new piece of legislation coming into place. So that's now going to come in from next Wednesday, and it's going to include anyone from the Windrush generation, their children born in the UK, or those who arrived in the UK as miners and others who have been in the United Kingdom for a long period of time, will be able to obtain the documents to confirm their status and in appropriate cases, be able to obtain british citizenship free of charge. It will also affect those from the Commonwealth, who arrived in the United Kingdom before 1973. And he also, in this statement, written ministerial statement. There's a consternation on labor benches that he didn't bother to come to the House of Commons to give it in person. He's also said that the compensation scheme has already received 100 responses so far. How do people apply? I will get the details and I'll tweet them to you, James. Splendid. And I shall retweet it accordingly because people listening will, of course, who have been affected will be interested to know how they. They just ring the hotline, presumably in the first instance, and then the work the bureaucracy is undertaken rather quicker than it currently is. Theo ushered. Many thanks indeed, Sajid Javid. Because they listen, you know. Well done. Seven minutes after twelve, mystery Arrow is under the way. I had something else to tell you as well. I've forgotten what it was. But you're all witching for mystery air now, aren't you? You don't. What was it? I had something on the tip of my tongue. It was really interesting, honestly. Charlie's in Nottingham. Charlie, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got a question for you. Carry on, Charlie. I'd like to know what the furthest man made object is away from us currently and how far away it is. Be that thing, wouldn't it? That thing? Yeah, yeah, you know, the one on the thing thing. But what was the spaceship that got to Mars? Did it stay. Didn't it just carry on going into the. Well, I don't know. I didn't know if we sent something before then and it went further. No, nothing's ever got to Mars before, has it? So was it Voyager and then it just carries on in orbit, doesn't it? It's just not in orbit. It carries on on a trajectory to the ends of time and space, man. You're not going to take my answer, are you? But I bet. I bet you a wagon wheel I'm right. I'll take you up on that. I might have got the name of the spacecraft wrong, it might have been Voyager two, but unless it burnt up on. Oh, I don't know. Why am I even talking? Charlie's question is pretty straightforward. My answer is not helping. What is the furthest man made object from Earth? So, as you go out into space, what did we make that is furthest away? Charlie? Lovely question. Why'd you want to know? Just curiosity. Yeah. Looking up at the stars and I've often wondered whether we said something a while ago that's just going and going and going and going and going. It'd be quite nice. I don't know. Fantastic. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. Abi is in Mayfair. Abby, question or answer? Hi, Abby. I'm sorry. Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. So my question is, basically, I don't know if you've, like, ever been on a train, maybe reading a book or reading a newspaper, and you just suddenly felt the urge to just look up and you just automatically turn to the one person out of, like, maybe 50 people in a carriage. Yes. Can you actually physically feel it when. No. You can't, because it wouldn't be physically, would it? It'd be kind of psychically. There's a book. Do you know, mate, you've just reminded me of a million years ago when I first came here and the studio was in very different places. Our third different iteration of studio. And I interviewed a bloke. God, my memory is dead. Why can't I remember stuff that my wife told me this morning that I've got to do before I get home? But I can remember someone I interviewed in my first ever shift on LBC about 13 or 14 years ago. Abby, why is that, mate? I don't know. I don't know. It's mystery out. Come on. Let's say someone else can answer a question. For somebody to do with hard and soft memory. Rupert Sheldrake. There's a bloke called Rupert Sheldrake who has written a book called the sense of being stared at. Yeah. You don't sound very impressed. I mean, I'm sure there's some sort. There's a whole book about it and you didn't know about the book. I told you about the book and you went, yeah, I have no recollection of that book. I have no idea. Well, I've just told you about it. So I think he thinks that there is some science behind it, but most other scientists think that there isn't. That's your answer, really? I'm sure there must be some sort of, like, electromagnetic. No, don't be soft, mate. No, because all the other times you've looked up, right, and there hasn't been anyone looking at you, you don't register, so you only register the times when you've looked up and someone has been looking at you. It happens quite often, doesn't it? Yeah, it happens to me quite often. But we both know that's because we're extremely good looking men. That is a really good answer. That's a really good Republican. I think we'll take that round of applause right now. Very close to giving myself a ray Liotta. Ten minutes after twelve is a sub. I'll leave the question on the board and park that flippancy. Richard's in Sheffield. Richard, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. All right, so if a person committed a crime and got arrested by the police. Yeah. And refused to give their identity, what would. What would eventually happen to them? Would they go to court? Would they serve a prison sentence? Could they come back into the community without anyone ever knowing their identity? What are you planning, Richard? If that's your. If that's your real name. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. No, no, just kind of, you know, you see these kind of tv programs and whatnot and you just think, you know, why don't the people just not give their identity? I think you could still be prosecuted as a sort of John Doe. I don't think you need to have. I don't know, actually. It's a really lovely question, actually. So you get. You get nicked, you're guilty. As the day is long, they ask you who you are, you've got no id on you. I guess eventually you'd get reported missing or something, Richard, wouldn't you? Well, I don't know. I mean, come on, mate, use your noodle. Yeah, but I mean, that's kind of a different question, isn't it? Well, I don't know if it is, because the answer might be. No one knows because it's never actually happened. Anyone who's ever refused to give their eye. That's all right. That's the second part of the question as well. Is there any examples of this happening? You're only allowed. What? You're only allowed one question. You'll have to ring in next week for the second one. If we get an answer to the first one. But I like the first one. What happens if you get arrested? You've got no id on you and you refuse to tell the old bill who you are. I don't know what Richard's up to, but keep an eye on him. Alright. For the rest of today, at least twelve minutes after twelve is the time. Have Al is in Norbury. Have Al. Question or answer? Good afternoon. I've got a question, please. Yes, of course. When the bride is walked down the aisle by her father, she's always walking on the left hand side. Yes. What is the significance of that? And when did it all start like, that way? Don't know, actually. I mean, the husband's on the right, but that's not an answer, is it? That's just a description. So, he always the same way around? I don't know. Why do you want to know? Philip and Holly, pop culture references just coming thick and fast this afternoon. Why do you want to know? Well, from the royal wedding we were watching with my wife and all of a sudden it came to my mind and I said, oh, how come she is working on the left hand side and always working on the left hand side? Yeah, I like it. It'd be something to do with religion, I imagine, won't it? Or the patriarchy. Why do. Why? I mean, to be honest, I watched the royal wedding as well and I was surprisingly moved by it. That's why I had to start this week eating humble pie live on the radio. But the. Some of the old fashioned stuff, like why she couldn't be given away by her mum, whether it was because her mum didn't fancy it or it was tradition, it's really quite medieval, the notion of a father giving away his daughter to the groom. Yes. I hadn't really registered that before. It's the first time I've ever felt guilty about having a very slight irritation that misses O'Brien is not known professionally as Misses O'Brien. A lot of her friends took their husband's name and I always felt a bit jealous. But now I'm really kind of pleased that because the idea that she takes my name, I never thought of it like this before. That's so outrageous. And yet I'm not in any way criticizing people who have decided to do it. I have a lovely question. Why is the bride on the. On the left? Jane's in healing. Jane, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Jane. Well, I was having eyes tested the other day and I. So did I. Did he? Did you do? Well, I got discharged. I've been having problems with my eyes for quite. With one eye for quite a long time. There's some hilarious photoshopping on Twitter done by the box of trolls with. With the eye infection that I once had. And I think it's all cleared up now. It's all good. Yeah. Okay. Were you all right? You don't care about my eye at all, do you? Just making polite conversation. So, yeah, back to that. Yeah. Forget James and his eye and his trolls. I think they are different when you go to, you know, the letters, the way they set up, like, you have a big one and then it gets smaller and smaller. I have presumed that they're identical to every optician, but I don't think they are, no. So what's your question? Are they. So it's like, are they all randomly, completely different, or does it depend. You must mix them up a bit, otherwise you could learn it off by heart. It'd be like Donald pleasence in the great escape. This is going to be completely ignored by Jane as well. Is there any logic to the way. I shall find out for you. I shall find out for you. How do they do the eye charts? Do they change them around a bit? Weekly, daily, in between appointments? Or if I memorise them all, could I be like Donald pleasence in the great. That's a really good cultural reference. Donald pleasence in the great escape, pretending to be blind, not to be blind, as he lost his sight. Because if they knew that he was losing his sight, he wouldn't be allowed to be part of the great escape. And he even put a pin on the floor. God, I haven't watched that film for ages. He put a pin on the floor, didn't he? And knew exactly where it was. And when they came to challenge him that he was losing his sight, he was like, don't be so ridiculous. I can see that pin over there by the side of the cell. And he went over and picked up the pin because he'd paced exactly where it was and picked it up. I think they busted him anyway, but took him on the journey. Dorn, please to live near me. And she said, I don't know quite what's happened to Mistria this week. I seem to have turned it into a sort of curious mixture of memoir, an anecdote. Normal service will be resumed after this. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC, just reflecting on how quickly the world changes. The admission, effectively or not the admission, but the confirmation that that malaysian passenger plane was shot down by the russian army, that's just normal now, largely because the person that would ordinarily lead the condemnation of that kind of thing is the president of the United States of America. And in the United States of America, they have just made it compulsory for all american football players to stand up for the national anthem, I think at risk of punishment. The land of the free. I told you it would happen. Even I can't quite believe it's all happening this quickly. The land of the free. Yeah. Unless you're an american football player, in which case you have to stand up. Maybe they'll get cattle prods. How will they do it? How will they insure it. At least one owner has said he'll happily pay the fines on behalf of his players who want to exercise the most basic and fundamental of freedoms. But there you have it. It's never just one person, is it? This is the mistake we made when we looked at Nazism and things like that. You just presume there's one person who exercises such epic mind control or charisma over a population that he persuades otherwise decent people to do disgusting things. There are long, long, long queues of people who are desperate to be able to do disgusting things. And sadly, two of them are now in charge of the two most powerful countries on the planet. One shooting down passenger planes with apparent impunity, and the other presiding over a form of culture war that is now seen standing up for a national anthem rendered compulsory for professional sports. People be schoolchildren. Next, if it isn't already 21 after twelve is the time. Back to mystery hour. Apologies for that digression. Alison is in Ripley. Alison, question or answer? James, I think I've got an answer for you. Oh, my days. Everyone sit down or I'm going to embarrass myself. One or the other. Let's find out. It's regarding the father walking the bride up the aisle. Yes, and I think this is historical. Due to keeping his sword arm free as he walks his daughter up the aisle, he has to have his sword arm free should anybody object or leap out. And likewise, when the groom walks the bride back down the aisle, he likewise walks on the particular side, so he has his sword arm free. Qualifications? 20 years as a superintendent registrar. Marrying people. How many people have you married who were wearing swords? Military people? Ceremonial swords. And this would be in case some local hooligan wanted to nick your daughter or your wife and you'd have to fight to defend her on it? Absolutely. Not in Surrey, obviously, but, yes, sometimes I think that sounds brilliant. I really like it. I think it's about to. Do you want to hear the worst joke that's been sent to this program in all the years that we've been doing it? Go on. This is from Dean Bell, who deserves a name check for such an appallingly dean in Chiselhurst, mate. This is absolutely awful. He says the reason why the bride is on the left at the royal wedding is because, as it says in the song, you have to pass the duchess upon the left hand side. Don't laugh, don't laugh. You'll encourage him. It's actually very good. Isn't it fabulous? The Duchess on the left well done, Dean. Dean wins. Round of applause for alison, please. Thank you, Jay. Lovely work. I love sword questions as well. It's something to do with traffic on bridges as well. Ian is in Dartford. Ian, question or answer? All right, James, got a question for you. Yeah, right. Why is it when you lose something, you can't stop yourself? But why are you laughing? Because I know what you're going to say. I know what you're going to say, Mike. You already told you. No, I did it with my shoes this morning. It drives my wife up the wall. Go on. No, mate, I'm the world's worst mate. No, I am the world's worst. I'll fight you for this. No, no, no, it's definitely me. We haven't actually got the question. No one else knows what we're talking about. Okay, so why is it, right, you keep returning to the same place time and time again, no matter what you do, you just can't stop yourself. So, you know, you can't find your shoes, you've had a look under the stairs, you go for a quick tool around the sitting room in case you left them under the sofa. And then, for reasons that you are currently baffled by, you go and have another look under the stairs. Yeah, it's a quality question. And then another look. Is it really a quality question here, not so long ago? I don't want to hear about that, do I? No, no. It's like you had a Stewie inquiry. Yeah, you're going to let me on and he didn't. Well, I'm very sorry about that, but you're here now, so let's not spoil it. So what do you want? Some sort of psychological explanation? Sorry? Some sort of psychological explanation or something like that. A behavioral psychologist or something like that. Well, I don't know. We all do it, though. No, we do. Why do we do it? I don't know. Habit? I shall find out. I'll find out if someone knows. I'm just pointing out there's a possibility nobody will. What are we looking for? Why do we always go back to the same place when we've lost something, even though we've already looked there? What is the furthest away man made object from Earth? Is there any science behind the sense of being stared at? Bride? We've done opticians, charts. Are they always the same? And if not, how do they change them? And I've written down identity. Why have I written down identity? If you. If you get arrested and you don't tell the police who you are and they can't find out what happens. All of those are good. Danny is in Manchester. Danny, question or answer? Here's an answer. Voyager. Carry on, Danny. The furthest man made object. Yes. Voyager one. Is that what it was? Yes. He left the solar system and moved into interstellar space in 2012. Interstellar space. They're staying on a Manchester theme. Ian Brown sang about something similar to Interstellar. I've forgotten what it was. Anyway, I'm digressing too much this hour. What? Say again. Saturn V, was it? Oh, is that the inspiral carpet? We're in the right park. What are your qualifications, Danny? I actually used to work at Jodrell bank in when it left. What did you do there? It was just a boring job. I was electrician. There's nothing boring about being an electrician. So you were working at Jodrell bank when Voyager one left the solar system and went into interstellar space? Yes. When you say electrician, were you fixing plugs or were you involved with telescopes? Oh, no, it was just fixing plugs and light bulbs. Oh, mate, you talk. This is the Manchester way, isn't it? You never meet many mancunian show offs. I found over the years. You're always quite self effacing. Seriously, if you lived in Chiswick, mate, you would have been Jodrell. You'd have said, I invented the telescope. It was my daily job to polish it. I can't give you a Ray Liotta, but I can very much give you a round of applause. You can't get a Rayleotter for fixing plugs. What's Jodrell bank, though? Oh, no, you've done it now, Danny. Next time, mate, big yourself up a bit, all right? Right, will we. We'll see how we get on. Sid is in Brighton. Sid, question or answer? Question, please, James. From my daughter Samantha. Hello, Samantha. How old is she? 37. James? 2020. She's 20. Oh, is she really? Yes. So you can blame her. Go on, then. It's a quite straightforward one. Why do you never see any baby pigeons around? Yes. Now, if you had told Beth that your daughter was 20, she would not have put you through. She's put you through because she presumed that this was a child. Did you? I did, yes. Beth is passing the buck. Passing the buck to Ava. It's not pretty. Not pretty to see this. Why do you not see baby pigeons around? It's not allowed on, mister. Because it's like asking why there isn't any white dog poo on the street. It's like one of the most obvious questions of all time. All right, what's the answer, then? They're all in the nest and they don't fly out of the nest until they look like grown up pigeons. Okay, I'll buy that then. Thank you very much. Is she there now? No, no, she's not here. She's at work now. Why didn't she bring in herself? Because she's at work. Yeah, she can ring from work. She can do, but she's busy. She's given Sid the job. Sid, I'm going to take the round of applause. Thank you. Thank you, Sid. 28 after twelve. Probably made a fool of myself on that. Peter is in first. Twice in one week, Peter, people will start talking. Yeah. It was last Friday, wasn't it? Oh, was it? Oh, you're all right, then. I think twice in two weeks I've had an answer. Last week I had to hang up. What is it? Right, the answer in this case, and I have no doubt that people's opinions will differ, but I served in three forces, inspected a lot more. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. Yeah. The. If somebody came, and it happens remarkably frequently, somebody comes in front of the custody sergeant and they refer to give their name, they go on. All the documentation as name and address refused. And the system just keeps rolling on. Most of them will be drunk, perhaps drugged, something like that. Sometimes organised criminals, particularly in cases of terrorism. But the fact of the matter is the system keeps going on. DNA swipes taken, the solicitor is called and so on. And it would be not at all unusual to come onto duty as a custody sergeant and see on the whiteboard name and address rest refused. Cell five. So you just carry on. And you've probably not personally ever come across a case where after they sobered up and after reality dawned, they deliberately and consciously refused to give up their identification and nobody came forward to report them missing. Look at the context, James. People are arrested, they've got stuff in their pockets, they may be in a car which has got a number plate on the front and the back. Yeah, but I know, I know not to have an idea. I know it is. You're being all practical, which kind of goes with the uniform, but I'm being theoretical. I know I'm theoretical and finished. Philosophical, you see, I am not practical. I am theoretical and philosophical. And theoretically, what would happen, do you know, if I got arrested and you couldn't work out who I was and no one came forward? I'd just get processed without a name, wouldn't I? I'd still end up in prison, I'd just be known as, you know, mister no name. That bloke who won't give his name is that hyphenated. Round of applause for Peter. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from. We have several questions still in need of answers. Someone's just sent me some pictures of baby pigeons that they took from their balcony. But I got to tell you, Richard, if you're planning a career as a photographer, change your plans now. Seriously, barely make out what it is. The question about Voyager has been challenged, but I'm not taking radio waves as a man made object. Okay, they're a man made phenomenon, but they're not a man made object. No, we're staying with the answer that Danny gave Voyager one. Although Sister Ray. My. My punk rocker mates, Sister Ray, have been in touch to remind me that it was indeed stelify. Was the song by Ian Brown that I was thinking of? Other questions that still need answers. Is there any psychological explanation for the sense of being stared at? Do opticians charts change the identity? Identity question has been done. And when you lose stuff, why do you always go back and look in the same place? We need a few more questions, actually. Let's go to Pete in Woking. Pete, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on, mate. It's one for my daughter, actually. How old is she? Dinosaurs. She's four years old. That's how it works, Sid. You see, she's not supposed to be 20, honestly, what's the question? Well, she calls them long necks, from, what was it called? The cartoon dinosaurs? Yes. Land before time. And there's three different types. Brachiosaurus, brontosaurus and Diplodocus. Now, I'm wondering, are they the same dinosaurs or are they different, or is it, you know, are they named differently from region or something like that? They're just three different species of dinosaur. Are you sure? Yeah, absolutely positive. And they all look the same. You're talking about an animated television program. No, they're real dinosaurs. Well, they're definitely not real dinosaurs. Not the ones in the car, but the ones that are now, they don't. They don't look the same. They don't look the same at all. I think one's got, like, a bump on his head. Well, there you go. What's the difference between an Alsatian and a Labrador? So they're just dogs, right? But they're different types of dogs. They look very much identical. I mean, so does, you know, a horse looks like a cow. Well, not really. Yeah, it does. Just coloring, that's different. And you don't know what colors dinosaurs were. I still think it should stay up on the board. Well, I mean, I'm tempted to argue with you because I haven't really had any arguments yet today, and if I don't get an argument, it's a bit like missing breakfast. Yeah. You mean hocus pocus? I'm a diplodocus. Brontosaurus. Brachiosaurus. If they were all the same thing, Pete, why would they have given them three different names? Yeah, well, that's what I mean. It could be a regional thing. Like. It could be like, Americans call them diplodocus. Oh, I see. When I was younger. Yeah, no, they're not. That's definitely not. That's definitely. No, I mean, it's a name that was. You're going back to usually, the late 19th century to give dinosaurs their name. And it's internationally recognized scientific nomenclature. See, this is what Jacob Rees Mogg does. You've got no idea what I just said, have you? No. See, but you. I sounded clever, didn't I? Yes. And I was talking gibberish, mate. Yeah, and it means something. Internationally recognised scientific nomenclature. I've got no idea whether that's true or not. But you chuck in a word like nomenclature, ideally, a little bit of Latin and doff cat fall up, I just nod my head no. So your brachiosaurus. Your brachiosaurus has got a thicker neck, your diplodocus has got a thinner neck, and your brontosaurus is a different kettle of fish altogether. Right? Are you making this up? No, I'm not. Why would I make it up? I might be breaking the mother of all mystery arrows and looking it up, but I wouldn't. No, you'd never be able to prove that. You'd never be able to prove that. I deny it all. In fact, I wouldn't even give the police my name. Yeah. Well, I brought this up with the missus yesterday and she said to me, she goes, well, just look it up. Yeah. And I was like, no, this is not. No, don't look it up. Okay, so I can't take the round of applause on this, even though I'm 99.9% sure I'm right. Three different species of dinosaurs, if you would, are distinct and different, whatever the word is, even if species the right word. But someone who's got better qualifications than me will ring in and confirm that I'm right, and I will now have to give them because you're such a hard man to please. I will have to give them the round of applause. Well, it's not me. It's my daughter, you see. Fair enough. What's her name? Evelyn. Well, tell Evelyn. Well, hopefully we've only got time. I should stop waffling, actually, and try and get Evelyn an answer. Pete, mind how you go. All right, man. Cheers. Abbas is in. Haro. Question or answer? Abbas. It's an answer. Which one? The optician's one. Oh, good. I like this one. So there are different types of charts from different manufacturers. Depending on how old the chart is, it can be randomized and it also can be fixed. So some practices will have a fixed chart. They tend to be very old fashioned charts. And the newer charts, which are computer screens, have got remotes where you can actually randomize the letters. How often do you do that? Pretty often during each eye exam. I'm an optometrist. So do this day in, day out with the old fixed ones. Do you swap them round or does the same one stay up for ages? It depends on. Some of them are fixed and you can't change them. Some of them have rotating drums. Effectively, the old ones are a light box with a chart and you can. They have little rotating drums, but you can see them slowly rotating, so they're not very effective. Most optometrists with a fixed chart would just leave. Leave it fixed. Yeah. Okay. So because I was in the hospital, and I should say thank you to everyone at the Western Eye hospital, incredible service from the NHS. But I was there the other day and I'd forgotten my glasses and I was doing the eye test. And you get weird when you might not know this because you're always on the other side of the green Bay's door, but you get weird because it's a test. I'm quite competitive. I thought, well, I might cheat. So I covered one eye and I've got one eye that's a bit better than the other eye. I covered one eye and did the fourth line down, and then I put my bad eye on and I couldn't read the fourth line down, but I thought I might be able to remember it. So that's why you should change it more. Yeah, that's why the new charts often do just change automatically. So you get it like that. So the answer is yes and no. Yes, I know. Depending on the chart and how old it is. Abbas, this is for you. Thank you. No, thank you. Kevin is in Camberley. Kevin, question or answer? First question. James, carry on. Kevin, why do all the moons not rotate, whereas the planets do? Because they're moons. You just defined a moon. Really? Yes. If it rotated, it would become a planet. Well, hang on. The moon is a planet. Exactly. Well, you just said the moons don't do it, and the planets dot it. Quote, s not a planet, it's a star. How are we gonna get out of this, kev? I don't know, either. I don't even understand the question, and I'm trying to answer it. That's the definition of arrogance. Yeah, well, that's the problem. I know, I know, but look, self awareness is the first step to self improvement, Kevin, so give me a break. Fair enough. So, to get it clear, moons don't. Moons don't rotate. Planets do. Why? Okay, if you. If the premises of your question are wrong, I'm gonna bar you for 24 hours, okay? Because, I mean, planets do, but moon's a planet. Go on, then. Let's find out. Anyone who understood that question, ring in now and answer it. Zero. 345-606-0973 I've got very messy notes today. I must apologize. I know you can't see them, but it means I'm probably going to miss some. Have I written down Charlie? Anyone know why I've written down Charlie? Was there a questioner called Charlie? Hmm? Voyager, interstellar. We've done that. The opticians. We've done the optician. Sense of being stared at. Thinking space lost stuff, in the sense of being stared at are very similar in a way. One questioner wants to know why we go back to the places we've already looked when we're looking for something we've lost. Another questioner wants to know whether or not there's any psychological or scientific explanation for the belief or the sense that someone is staring at you. The dinosaurs. I'm hearing that I may have made a fool of myself by distinguishing all three of those examples. It may be that there were only two different dinosaurs, but we need to find out for Evelyn. So, Brachiosaurus, Brontosaurus, Diplodocus, or Diplodocus, if you are a latin scholar, give me a ring. Now tell me what the differences are or are not between those three, and why don't moons rotate? There you go. As they make their orbits around other planets, 1243 is the time. Alex is in Birmingham. Whereabouts in Birmingham, Alex? I'm in Kings north in. James. Good man. Question or answer? I've got a question. Please bring it on. I was at a cavalry on Sunday, and after I'd loaded up my plate with my meat and my veg. I went over to the county with the gravy, got the ladle, you know, ready to spoon on plenty of gravy. And I've noticed that on a couple of the, sort of saucepans of gravy, a skin had formed on the top. And it happens with, you know, custard soups, things like that. And I would like to know, why does a skin form on the top of certain liquid food items? Is it gelatin? I don't know. Is it? I think it might be. But then would there be custard? Would there be gelatin in custard? You make an egg custard. Does it get a skin on the top, or is it just when you make it out of powder? Have you ever made your own custard? Why would gelatin be in gravy? Because it comes out of meat, bones. There's gelatin in gelatin. There's gelatin in bones. That's because they can't eat sweets, so you might. I've got a vegetarian at home. And the reason I knew that she wasn't just going through a phase and she didn't, you know, she really meant. It was when she started turning down haribos, because they had gelatin in them. And that's like a thickener, isn't it? You put gelatin in stuff to thicken it up, and then if it cools down and it starts solidifying. I've made gravy from scratch, though. That doesn't have gelatin in, and. Well, hang on, it probably does. If you've made it from meat, it will have gelatin in it. You said it comes from the bones, though. No? Yeah, but if you've made gravy from scratch, then you've used your juices from your roast to make it. No, no, I mean, I've made it from, you know, from sausages. You know, juices from sausages. And it's still got a skin on the top. Yeah, it still kind of develops skin. Could be fat. You shouldn't really. Trust me when I say things like it comes from bones. Yeah. Because I could have just made that up without realizing it. I like this question a lot. I just trying to work out whether the answer will be the same for the gravy and the custard. Do you see? It could be completely different. That's exactly right. That's the variety of mystery. Have I ever told you, Alex, about the jugs of custard that they used to serve up at my boarding school? No. Go on. Well, they were shaped like an old fashioned jug, so they'd have quite a narrow neck and quite a fat bottom, if you pardon the expression. And this custard was so vile amount of money my parents sent to send me to that school. The custard was so vile and thick that you could hold the jug upside down and pass it. It was a game at my school and we didn't play it every day. But to the best of my memory, no one ever lost. You could pass the jug to the lad sitting next to you and he'd pass it to the past. The custard, it was probably called. And with an upside down custard jug with custard so thick that it never fell out. That's remarkable. Custard. James. When I was in school in Sheffield in winter, they would give us cups of gravy if it was leftover to take out into the playground on especially cold days. Oh, I like that. We'd have that as a little winter treat, as a warming snack. I'll tell you what, I got to see your gravy. I'm going to raise you. We once got served eggs for breakfast because I was at a boarding school and they were absolutely ranked, so no one ate them. They all got straight back into the thing. Then we had a school trip later that day. Guess what was in our sandwiches? Oh, God. I know. And my parents were paying for that. Alex. Paying money, hard earned cash. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Questions still need answering. Two psychological ones. Why do we always look in places we've already looked when we've lost stuff? And why do we get a sense that people are looking at us and then when we look up, it turns out they are? Is that even true, that observation? What causes skin to form on custard and gravy? And why don't moons rotate? Moons, of course, are not planets, although there was no need to call me a moron while pointing that out. Incorrigible FCA. Jeff is in. Ealing. Jeff, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Jeff. The moon does rotate. Controversial. I can't tell you whether or not all moons rotate. But our moon does. Yes. The reason why it doesn't appear to is that it rotates on its axis at roughly the same duration that it takes to go around the planet. It looks to people on the Earth that it doesn't move when it does. Now, I visited Johnson Space center in Houston maybe ten years ago. And. Any problems? No. They passed the test. The. The yeah, we. They were talking about. Because obviously the Apollo, one of the Apollo rockets is there. So they happen to say that, that they were talking about the moon. And you wouldn't know what the dark side of the moon looked like if it didn't, if it wasn't visible from Earth at some point, because you obviously, you can map the earth. You saw, you can map the moon, can't you? Yeah, of course, yeah, you're right. Tidal locking. Tidal locking, they called it like synchronous rotation or something, or synchronized rotation. So it's about 27 days to orbit the Earth in about the same period of time to rotate on its axis. What is tidal locking? Someone clever said that the answer would have to involve the words tidal locking. I have absolutely no idea, because the guy I asked was the guy with the NASA credentials, not me. You know, you're just playing the NASA card and not taking any prisoners, aren't you? Qualifications? I asked someone at NASA, mate, what are you gonna do? Basically, it, what are you gonna do? Argue with me? You've forgot who you're talking to. Jeff, give him a round of applause. Well played. I will accept, with seven minutes of the program left, if you can insert a tidal locking into Jeff's answer, I might accept it. Nicholas is in Newbury. Question or answer? Nicholas answered. It's the one with the sensing of being looked at. Oh, yes. Okay. There's an experiment called the double slit experiment and the double what? What? The double slit experiment. And it's. It concludes that all matter reacts differently when it's been observed to when it's not been observed. Nah. Yes. And so it depends if someone's really sensitive so the, you know, you know, maybe they can feel it, I don't know, but it's. So that's the theory is that is observation would cause some small disruption in the matter that you might detect subconsciously and look up and then someone's staring at you. It's a leap because I know of the double sled experiment, so I've had no confirmation of this. So maybe I'm barking up the wrong tree. But yes, all matter reacts differently when being observed to when it's not observed, and so therefore, if someone's really sensitive, maybe they can pick it up. So that's that, that's the theory. It's unproven, but it's out there. That's my theory. That's really strong, actually. What are your qualifications? I like science. Have you read the sense of being stared at by Rupert? I should have checked, actually, in one of the breaks I may have. I like listening to Rupert Sheldrake, but, no, I haven't. No. Okay. Well, I'm pretty sure he. Is that the kind of thing he'd do? Yes, yes. He done something with the Nolan system, so it's very similar. He did something with the Nolan sisters. Yeah. Digressing. Yeah. But, yeah, he does the Nolan sisters. Yes. He done like a. He had got all together, but one of them in a separate hotel in a different room. And they were calling that the younger sister, I think. And she had to be. She would tell before she picked up the phone, she'd say, who calls her before? Oh, so I see. Yeah. Okay. Looking for some sort of psychic business. Yeah. He does signs off the beaten track, so to speak, doesn't he? Or not. Science, as some would argue. More like sort of parapsychology or something like that. It's enough to earn you a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. 1254 is the time. Professor Hal is here. The professor of the understanding of science, public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. I was looking at your twitter the other day. Or today. Have you just taken some law exams as well? Yes, I have. What are you now then? No, I haven't done my finals. That's first year. Did contract law and public law. Why? Just to keep my eye on. So I remember what it's like to be a student. I do a degree every five or seven years. And that helps you with your pastoral care of the students that you look after? Well, it just. I'm getting older and older, and they're staying the same age, so it just helps me remind. So how many degrees have you got now? This is number five, your fifth degree? Yes. There's only three in the band. Question or answer, Hal? I'd like to have a look at the gravy skin. Carry on. I've just realized that if he was. A couple of people have pointed out that if he was in Kings Norton, he would have been at the toby carvery, but that's probably a bit niche. Carry on, Professor hall. There's two effects going on. Do you want to hear them both? Please. Okay, so there's a class of mixtures called colloids, which are when you have two different phases mixed together, but they don't dissolve. So smoke, clouds, mist are liquid gas colloids. They're little bits of liquid suspended in the gas that we call air. And there's a subset called emulsions. So emulsion paint, custard, milk, gravy they've got little droplets of fat suspended in water that never actually settle out. And if you heat them up, some of the water near the top evaporates, making the top fattier, which contributes to the skin, which is then backed up by the fact that when you heat up proteins, they denature, they change their properties and they become insoluble. It's a bit like when you put. There's a very grave danger that I'm going to fall asleep. Hal, can you just inject a little bit more excitement into your voice? This is very exciting. I want to hear your peak lecturing voice when you've got young students who you're trying to turn on to a light of science. Yeah. Come on. I lost you at colloids, mate. If. If you heat the milk up, if you heat the milk up, the protein denatures and it becomes a solid and it rises to the top. Yes. Oh, my goodness. Oh, I get it. And gravy. There's protein in the meat, there's blood and there's proteins. They become insoluble. They rise to the top and they make the gravy have a little coating on the top of it. Oh, my goodness. Round of applause. I see. There you go. Five degrees. Just a little bit of enthusiasm, mate. Gareth's in Birmingham. Gareth, question or answer? It's an answer to the dinosaur question. Carry on. Okay. Well, they are species of sauropods, which is a subset of herbivores, and they are dinosaurs. They are different. All three of them? Yeah. Are you sure? I mean, you would say that a brontosaur and a brachiosaurus, basically the same, because they're tall rather than low and the diplodocus is long. Yeah. What do you say? Diplodocus or diplodocus or diplodocus? I say diplodocus when I'm trying to be contrary, but I say diplodocus when I'm singing hocus pocus, I'm a diplodocus. But in recent years, in recent years, that song has been removed from my repertoire by the fact that my children now listen to Taylor Swift and Abba. Thanks for asking. What I'd say is that asking if a brachiosaur is the same as a diplodopus is like saying. They're asking is, you know, rodents are a subset of mammals. Yes. And is a rat the same as a hamster? Yes. But a brachiosaur and a brontosaur, you could. That would be like asking, is a black rat the same as a white rat. Yeah. Or like, different species of dog or something. Qualifications? I'm a. I'm a true dinosaur obsessed geek. Just hobby, though. Not. Not professionally, no. I'm a musician, professionally. A magician with a paleontology sideline. Yeah. Well, I'm just obsessed with dinosaurs. And. I mean, it's incredibly ironic, then, that I shared my dinosaur related song with you as a dinosaur loving musician. Have you. Kids are too old. There was a. There was an early learning tape that was green that they did. There's a Facebook group about this which has loads of scientific information crammed into songs. Don't worry, there are other children in the world. You can bring it to their attention. I think you can find it on YouTube. So any kids who, if any parents have got kids or observations, just the dinosaurs. Look at the green. Early learning dinosaur tape. There you go, Gareth. Round of applause. And we're already late. So, Richard, I'm afraid your challenge to the question about being stared at will not be heard today. And a few others as well, that we're not going to have time for. Good work there, everybody. Well done. Give yourselves a pat on the back and knock the skin off your gravy. Sheila Fogarty is here. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from town and only on LBC.