DNA is it exactly 50/50?

Three minutes after twelve. It's time, says David and Antwerp, to ignore the world's villains for a moment and celebrate instead the joys of humanity. With mystery hour on LBC with me, and of course, because we took that last conversation so close to the wire and left so many people hanging on, I've got a full switch, a clear switchboard. Now for your questions to come on, which very, very rarely happens on mystery hour. Please pay attention briefly. Don't ask boring questions. We'll answer anything at all. Seriously, anything. But if it's really, really boring, you probably won't get the chance to ask it. And the best test of how boring it may or may not be is how many people are going to be interested in the answer. Once you've asked the question, will everybody else go, wow, yeah, I'd love to know that, or will they go, why did he ask that? That's so dull. Repetition's my responsibility. Okay? I supposed to be able to remember questions that we've dealt with in the past. And I'm by far the longest serving member of the team. Now on mystery hour, Jones, the engineer, has gone off to pastures new. He was the last sort of stopgap, the lowest, it called not stopgap behind the batter in backstop in baseball. But leave that with me. All I ask of you is that you ring in with a good question. A who, why, a what, a where, a when, a wherefore, a whither, even the occasional whence. Why do we do that, James? Where does that come from? What's that about where? Woo woo woo woo. And then someone else will ring in with the answer number remains the same throughout. Whenever you hear me say it, it means I have a phone line free. Which is. I mean, pretty rare at the best of times on our program at the moment. I'm sure the tide is due to go back out again sometime soon, but right now, crazy times on the switchboard. But this hour, it's. It's doubly true. It's even more true than the rest of the time. Five minutes after twelve. Oh three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three is the number that you need. Okay. If you hear somebody ask a question to which you know the answer, ring in and tell us you would. I think we should just crack on on this one, actually, because this knows we could do a changing gear. Johnny's in Ipswich. Johnny, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on. And where does the superstition that the groom can't see the bride before the wedding come from? Is it. Is it the bride or just the dress? Oh, yeah, the Bible. It's the bride on the morning. You can't see the bride on the day. But you should never see the dress, should you? Yeah. Which I was wondering where that whole superstition comes from. Yeah, me too. Are you. Are you getting hitched sometime soon? Yeah, 1 second. Afford it? Let's try and find out. I can see the dress. I suppose you want to take in by surprise. Why not see the bride on the morning? I suppose the obvious answer might be in case you. You know, because you sort of had a rough night and you change your mind. Charlie is in Surbiton. Charlie, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Charlie, mind your phone. I can't. I can only just hear your voice. Sorry, mate. My question is, why does white noise help us sleep? Does it help you sleep? I mean like a whale noise won't help me sleep. So you. Because Wayne Rooney has a hoover on, you know a hoover? A hoover or a vacuum or a Dyson, any other brand of cleaner. That's probably why he didn't turn that good then. Says he can't sleep without it. So white noise is like. You mean that? Yeah. Or like a whale noise. That's slightly different, isn't it? A whale? No, not in torture like rain as well. Soothing. So soothing, non rhythmic, non musical noise. Why does it help us sleep? What do. What do you use? The whale noises, I mean. Well, noise will just annoy me, to be honest, but I just usually sleeps like a tv or something. You have something on in the background that helps you kind of drop off? I used to, oddly, but then, as with many things, marriage changed it. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Why does white noise help you sleep? And why can't the groom see? Why can't the dog see the rabbit before the marriage? Ron's in Wormley in Hertfordshire. Ron, question or answer? It's a question, please, young man. Carry on. Ron. That's quite alright. Where does the term kettle of fish come from? And what does it mean? Well, as in a different kettle of fish? Yes, just a. It's what? But I don't know, actually, mate, I can't believe it's only seven minutes past twelve. I was going to try and try and. Ah, you were, you were after an applause? Well, not yet, no. I was after a sort of early, you know, like the. You know when boxers in the first couple of rounds are just sort of testing out their reach and making sure the gloves fit. I was just sort of limbering up. That's what I was doing, Ronald. I was limbering up. So to see. I was limbering. I was limbering. I thought maybe you bought fish in a kettle and you couldn't see what was in it and you had to take the fishmonger's word for it. But you're not going to accept that as an answer, are you? Of course not. Ridiculous. I don't know the answer. So I'm just limbering, mate. Just give me a break, will you? Let me limber, please? Limber? Limber away. What is a kettle of fish? And if we can sort of. Why that figure of speech about it's a different kettle of fish. Why does white noise help you sleep? And why can't grooms see the bride on the day? Or indeed the dress ever? Zero. 345-606-0973 are you serious about this one? Yeah. Okay. Austin's in. Where? Austin. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Austin, everyone that I know doesn't know what am and PM stands for. Can you help me out? As in the clock? As in the time. That's it. Yeah, I can help you out. I mean, seriously, everybody you know doesn't know what this stands for, right? You've got to appreciate I work in a building trade, sir. Well, my first job was on a building site. I, um. Only for two weeks before anybody thinks I'm rewriting history. It's Latin for ante, meridium, and post meridium with meridium being midday. So ante means before and post means after. I think you deserve a round of applause. I'm not sure I do, but I'm certainly taking one. Thank you, Austin. If you don't know what am and PM is, you must be missing out on your breaks, Austin. Definitely not there. No, I wasn't Latin for break. I don't know. 1209 is the time. Thank you, Austin. Riccardo's in Swansea. Ricardo, question or answer? Question, please, carry on. Why do eyelids twitch? Pardon? Why do eyelids twitch? Why do eyelids twitch? Yep. In what? I may need more from you, Ricardo. Sometimes eyelids twitch. They do, but can't be more clear than that. No. Is it not just sort of muscle spasms that are more visible because the eyes are so. I'm not sure, James, this is why I'm calling. No, fair enough. Why do you want to know? Is it. I mean, do you have a particular problem with eye twitches? Eyelid twitches? No, I was just having a discussion with it with them, with a friend the other day. You mean when we're awake. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So sometimes it's psychological, isn't it? People get a twitch as almost an anxiety disorder. Do you mean that or do you mean the general twitch that everybody probably recognizes they've done at some point? Yeah, just the general. The general twitch. Why do eyelids twitch? That's. That's a lovely question. I don't know. There's something about the way you asked it, Ricardo, that was really charming. Okay, why did. Just say it again. Just do the question one more time. Why do eyelids twitch? That's it. That's the book title. Ricardo. I'll do our best. We'll do our best. Elliot is in Battersea. Elliot, question or answer? I've got a question. I'm still laughing at Ricardo. He's great, wasn't he? Why do I lead to twitch? Carry on. Yeah, right. I was wondering why, when you say cheers when you're having a drink, why'd you click your glasses together? I know this and I don't know if we've ever answered it before. Can I have a crack at this one? God. Here's the deal. Right? So I've got a pint pot in my hand at the moment as it happens. Have you? Unfortunately not. When we are. It's alright. Mine's got green tea in it. But when we. Actually, I could do the refill while we're on the subject. But anyway, if we now clink glasses. Originally the plan would be that a little bit of drink out of my glass went into your glass and a little bit of drink out of your glass went into my glass. Right. Right. And that would prove that we weren't trying to poison each other. You know, I thought I was. Oh, thank goodness for that. I was about to say you don't sound very impressed. I'll tell. If it's all the same with you, Elliot, I'll take the real deal. If that one gets a stewards inquiry, I'm going to be furious because that. I'm pretty sure I've read that relatively recently. Zero. 345-606-0973 Elliott, great work. Joe is in Morden. Joe, question or answer? I think I've got an answer. Nope. Let's do that again. More confidence. Joe, question or answer? I've definitely got an answer. Bring it on, Joe. It's the one about why the white noise and hoover noises would make us sleep. Oh, yes. When. When we're a baby in the womb. Apparently the sound of the blood rushing through the mother's system makes them. Makes that. A similar noise. Yeah. Love it. Qualifications. I'm a mum of five boys and I always wondered why they all slept. When I put the hoover on. I thought it terrifying. So I researched it and asked a midwife and that was it. Because Rayner only sleeps with the hoover on, I'm sure. I haven't imagined that it was him or Beckham. It's a while since I covered that beat. But one of them sleeps with a hoover on and one of them rearranges everything in the fridge so it's all facing in the right order. And that is. That is it. That makes perfect sense. And the same would be true of some of the other sort of background noises. Even just having the telly on quietly, it just means that it's not silent, it's constant noise. Like it would be in the womb. That's it. Yeah, because I was told it apparently in the womb, it's absolutely deafening. Love it. Round of applause for Joe. Yay. There we go. That's the kind of level of enthusiasm I expect from. From a satisfactory answer on mystery Phillips in Hatfield. Philip, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on, Philip. When. When I'm doing online banking and I'm paying you some money, say I've got your account number and I know the amount. And then I switched to a pincentry machine, mate, when you did that thing. Hang on, did you hear the bit I said about is everyone else going to be interested in the answer to your question? Bugging me for so long, James. Yeah, but that's not the point, mate. Is the majority of people listening now going to be interested in the answer to this question? Yeah, they all want to know, James. All right. It's all about how you ask the question. It's the way you tell them, Philip, so make it sing. Come on. I'll have a happy weekend now. So when you get to a point where I'm putting your account number in the pin central machine and the amount, how does the bank know that's correct? Because it's not attached to the banking system. My computer is, but not that little pin sentry machine. I won't sleep, James, if you don't do it. I don't even understand the question, Philip. Right, I'm on my computer and paying you 20 quid. You give me your account number. No. Sound like one of those fraudsters. You're probably. Wait, what are you talking about? Never giving you my account. All right, all right. Make it 30. Oh, go on, then. I've got to. In the pin sensitive machine, which isn't attached to. That's like the little calculator type device you put your card in. Yeah, yeah, exactly. And that's remote. That's not attached to anything. But I have to authorize it by putting the amount in and your account number. How does the bank know that's correct. So how is the pin machine communicating with the bank? You said it better than I ever could. Oh, there you go. That's why they pay me the big bucks, Philip. Every penny. Are you sure it works like that? So, as soon as you've put it in on the mini machine, then the money transfers from your account to mine. What it does, it then gives me an authorization code. Yes. And I put that authorization code back on the computer through to the bank. Ah, well, that's your answer, you prune. No, it's not. It's not. It is. So you need an authorization code for a specific transaction. So the transaction that you get an author, the authorization code will contain two pieces of information. It will contain a way of verifying the account number that you've just entered, and it will contain a verification of the fact that the card you used in the machine was kosher. Therefore, the number that you type into your bank account, which actually makes the transaction happen, contains the two pieces of information. Yeah, but, James, it doesn't know that to the bank. It doesn't know they wrote the software that generates the code. What we need here, James, is a good old banker. You know what I mean? I think I do. Some would say we've already got one. I mean me, not you. It's 1216. This is LBC on LBC. It's 20 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What's a kettle of fish? Why can't the groom see the bride on the day of the wedding? And why can't the groom see? It's not often I allow a double headed question to creep through, but it was the first one of the day. I was still reeling from the abject failure of anybody to dissuade me from the position that recent police events in America, and to a lesser extent, but still pertinent to this country, have allowed me, at the age of 44, to finally realize that pogroms and lynch mobs and holocausts and the like don't just happen in other places. At other times. They can happen anywhere. Anyway, it's a slightly cheerless observation, but that's why I think the fella got through with two questions in one. Why can't the groom see the bride on the day of the wedding, or indeed the dress on any point prior to the wedding. Kettle of fish. Why do eyelets twitch? Ricardo. And that slightly complicated question about online banking that I didn't really understand but you probably did and will therefore be able to answer. Barry's in Barnhouse. Barry, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Bring it on, Barry. Kettle of fish. A kettle is a kettle net. It's a type of net that was stretched on the shore and then when the tide came in, the fish came in with it. When the tide went out, it left the fish behind. And it was an old type of fishing method used along the Kent Sussex coast, I think, particularly down by dimchurch around that area, the Romney marsh area. Qualifications. I saw it many years ago on a program about that area. You put me in quite an uncomfortable position here, because I think you're wrong. When my mum cooks a whole salmon, which. Yeah. Fish kettle. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, that's where I saw it. And they said, you can't just gloss over the fact that you've just brought actual fish kettle to the thing, that we've got one in our kitchen. Yeah. It's like a sort of window box, but made of metal. I know the thing. Yeah, that's actually called a kettle. If you knew about that, why did you ring in and start talking to me about some nets that you vaguely remember from a television program years ago? Have you got a kettle in your kitchen? A fish kettle? Not a fish kettle. No. Not as middle class as me, Barry. Clearly. Or middle. Or middle class. All middle classes have. So you see why I can't give you a round of applause, because you've kind of blown your own answer out of the water, so to speak. But as I say, there is a. When I saw the program, the gentleman on there said, this is where the expression a kettle of pretty kettle of fish comes from, because this is a kettling net. I think he was wrong. I'm happy to blame him rather than you. Okay, then. I'm not giving you a round of applause so fast. I'm sorry, mate. That's fair enough. I would give you a round of applause. Maybe the fish kettle came later. Maybe it did, but it'd be a bit odd. And someone said, what we going to call this big pan for cooking a fish in? Well, call it a kettle. No, we can't call it a kettle. There's a bloke near Dymchurch who calls his nets a kettle. No, not having it, Barry, by way of compromise or indeed. By way of consolation, the more I giggle at someone's wrong answer, the more likely it historically turns out to be in the next 20 minutes that you were right and I've made a fool of myself. But, you know, I'm there now. We've crossed the line. Mike's in Chelsea. Mike, question or answer? Hello, James. Yes. So, um. Yeah, I was going to say, look, I always listen to your podcast and I never actually get a chance to bring in, so that's great to have you here. What, you haven't lost your job or anything? I shouldn't do that, just in case, you know. No, no, I'm just not traveling the moment. Good. Well, it's nice to have you here live. Yeah, good to be live. So, um. Yeah, so, the answer about the. The online banking question. Oh, boy. It was all going so well. I tell you what, you just sort out. I'm going to go and get a cup of tea. All right. All right. So I'm going to try and simplify as much as I can. So, basically, it works on an algorithm. And what it is is that the bank's got two pieces of information. So it's got the account number or even 2345 pieces of information to keep it simple. It's got the account number and, for example, the amount that you want to send or your card details, keep like that. Now, on your end of it, you've got the account number and your card. So when you mix that. So if we were to say that both bits of information are number one, number two, the bank knows that one and two equals three, you know, and your card knows that one and two equals three. So when you put your card and you create the algorithm with your account number and your card, then it's going to give a specific answer. The bank knows that that's the answer it's expecting. So if you give it that mash, effectively, of information which is expecting, and it knows you've got the card, it knows that you put the same account number in as us online and it lets you go through it. Ray Liotta, I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. I have absolutely no idea what you're talking about, whether you're right or whether you're wrong, but you get a round of applause just to make sure no one else rings in to answer that question. But you're definitely right. I know you're right. You sound so clever. I mean, clearly you're right. But I just. You lost me at the algorithm. Yeah, well, sounds completely deceiving. No. Is it? No, you're brilliant. I just. I just have. Blind spot. That was lovely. Great stuff. Good work. Well played. Mike. Mike. Well, is there anything I can do to make it a better experience for the podcast listener rather than the live? Because obviously I sometimes feel that they're a bit behind the car. You know, the bit behind the. Behind the times. Is there anything I could do to improve the podcast experience anyway? What a question. Bringing mystery hour and off, getting put on the spot. No. Well, have a think. Let me know next time. Next time you're traveling. 26 after twelve. I used to say I'd take a question via Twitter in advance that I could do in the podcast, do live, and then it would make the pod. But I kept forgetting. Steve is in team Steve. Question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, mate. DNA. Is it exactly 50 50 for the parents of a child? We're looking at my daughter the other day, and sometimes she looks like me, sometimes she looks like my wife. DNA. I thought you said V and a. I thought you were talking about the Victoria and Albert museum. I was there, I think. What's she on about now? Is he looking at his daughter? DNA. 50 50. Not VNA. Yeah, thank you. 50 50. So you half and half? Exactly. Or is it 80? 2060? 40? I don't know, actually, but, I mean, it's 50 50, but not in the way that perhaps you're thinking. Otherwise. Otherwise all your children would look like identical twins. No, shut up, James. I'll let a proper person answer this one. All right, I'm pretty sure it's 50 50, but that's not good enough for you. You want to know why, right? Yep, yep, that's right. Good work. Carry on, Steve. 27 minutes after twelve is DNA. 50 50 from Mum and Dad. Online banking. Thank the Lord we've done. Why do eyelids twitch? What's a kettle of fish? Remembered. I should have remembered at the time. My mum's got a salmon kettle. So a kettle of fish is a thing that you cook a fish in, like a whole fish. If you're wondering why you need a special pan, you try cooking a whole fish in a normal sized saucepan. Get yourself a whopping great salmon. So that's what a fish kettle is. But then we have to move on to a different kettle of fish. That's a whole different kettle of fish. Why has that become a figure of speech? So we're into brewers Dictionary of Fraser and fable territory. I wonder whether Wayne in basildon is listening 27 minutes after twelve. Where are we going next? Declan is in Catford. I've done that crisp question about a billion times. It's on the mystery, our archive. Declan's in Catford. Question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Declan. I was in the mid. On a cruise over the summer. Oh, get you. Was it nice? Misses O'Brien's never going to have it. I would love to go on a cruise but she's just not interested. Yeah, no, I'll sell it to her. The thing was. Right, yeah. I was looking at where we left. We left the port and you know the wake that you get from the ship? I do. So you're looking at the bag and I'm watching it and I'm looking and I'm thinking we left port like 2 hours ago and I can still see the wake as far as the eye could see. Really? It was almost like the ship had carved the road out of the water. Oh, wait. I swear to God. I swear to God. And I'm thinking, why is the waves not breaking up? It was like a dead skate line. And even ships that had passed, I could see where they'd been and nobody that I asked could answer the question. No, that's a brilliant question. I take your word for it. It kind of rings a bell. And the bigger the ship, the bigger the wake. So the longer it would stay in place, perhaps. Is it something to do with the sediment at the bottom of the ocean? But then the med is like 700 meters deep, so that can't be having an impact on it. And then I'm thinking the churning of the, you know, the engine or something. But like I say, the waves and the current didn't have an impact on it. Oh, by the way. Go on. I think that bloke with the kettling of the fish was right. I know, I know. I don't. I'll tell you why. What did the police call it when they. For all the protest? Kettling. Yeah. Why? Because he's got a spout. It's got a spout. You get all the people in it. You get what I think. No, it's called Kettling because you get everybody in a big space and then you only let them out through a small space like. No, like a spout. No, no, it's a spout. I'll take your word for it. I'm not going to do your question now. I'm not. Forget it. Find someone else. I think it's fine for Professor Howard. Is he? Find the BBC, mate. Are you not doing it? I'm not having it. I will. Of course I will. Leave it there, Declan. Take it easy. 12:30 Simon Conway has their headlines. MP's have begun debating whether Sir Philip Green should lose him on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve is the time. Why do eyelids twitch? Is the DNA passed on to a child? 50% Dad, 50% mum. What is the origin of the phrase? A different kettle of fish? I'm not having it. There's nothing to do in nets. Not yet, anyway. And why can't the groom see the bride on the day of the wedding? Or the dress at any point prior there too. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those, or indeed if you have a question of your own. Linda is in Harrow. Linda, question or answer? Oh, it's a question. James. Carry on. Linda. I am right handed. I have bought a nice new pair of shoes, expensive shoes, but the lace kept coming undone and I mentioned this to my husband and he said, do it with your left hand, don't lace them from the right the way you normally would lace them from the left and it will stay in. And I thought he was joking, but it actually works. So you took the lace out of the shoe and started again? No, no lace in the shoe. But it's awkward doing it with your left hand and you're turning it in the opposite direction. But the lace stays tight all day. Tell me again what you did differently from what you were doing before. I would use my right hand and put my right hand lace over the left. But when you use your left hand, you use your left hand lace. I've got a triple knot on my pump, so I can't. I'm not. Do you mind if I use my teeth to undo the knot? No, just tell me. I'm not being fill in the mouth. I just want to work out what it is you do. Hang on a second, I've got that flipping. Don't you hate that? It's because I've started. They're quite old trainers, so I've started pulling them on and off in the mornings without undoing the laces. Just bear with me. Well, no, that's why I tie them up triple, actually. They're quite long as well. I wear new balance trainers. What are you going for this season, Linda? I've got nice walking shoes but they've got quite short laces. That's a good idea. So when you do them up, so you're doing it like a. Like the opposite of what you usually did. Yes. Just hang on a minute. Talk among yourselves. That's not gonna happen, is it's just gonna be a bit. No, because you have to walk about with them for a few hours. I'm not expecting it to come undone. I'm just seeing how I do it normally. So what I normally do is. Did you get that sound effect, Linda, that was. Cost a fortune, that CD. That's the sound of a shoe just gently jiggling on the studio desk. So I normally go like that. Ah, okay. So into. So the left one is. At the moment. My left hand is in front. My left. The hand. Start again. The lace in my left hand is in front of the lace in my right hand, as I am preparing to tie. Right. That's right. And you now. Whoa. And you now do it the other way around. No, that's the new way. I would put the left over the right. And I'd be doing it with my left hand. Yeah, if I was left handed. And it makes you. It makes you. I mean, I thought it was a joke, but it does work. No, you're on. Okay, I get. I think. I think I get what you're doing. My husband said he used to do it with football boots. I've heard that before as well. Something to do with the weft of the. Of the lake. Okay, you're on. Why. Why then? Why does it. And I mean, never can. Comes. Comes undone at all? No, it's fascinating. All day. Right, you're on. I'll get you an answer to that if it kills me. Linda, lovely. Thank you. No, thank you. Mind how you go. 1237 is the time. David. Lewisham. Can you just. What? Have you got a question or an answer? It's an answer, James. You carry on. I've got to put my shoe back on. All right. Okay, mate. It's the answer to the net, the kettle of fish. The guy about the nets was on a similar sort of answer, but he was wrong. The kettle. The kettle, James, was a trap. And it's shaped with a small hole in it, like a. Like a point, like a bottleneck. And the fish used to swim in it, but they couldn't get out again. It's a bit like a lobster trap, but on its side. And that's why they shaped the kettle. When they did the kettle for the salmon, they named it after the kettle trap, which was what they used to catch the fish in the salmon in scottish rivers. And it was a kettle trap. And they named the kettle that they cooked it in because it looked very, very similar to the trap. So that's where you get a kettle of fish qualifications. A fisherman for many, many, many years. I don't know. And it's named after the kettle trap. And because the kettle that they put it in looked very, very. Actually, the spout is only part of a handle and it's allowed to allow the stain come out on the kettle that you cook fish in. But because it looks very, very similar to the trap, they called it a kettle. A fish kettle. I'm not convinced. But they named the fish kettle after the trap, James. So why? Why? What about the origin of the phrase a different kettle of fish? Because they used to use bigger and smaller ones for the salmon and for the trout and the sea trout. Why would you say that? If you and I were talking about something and you started talking about something else and I said, oh, but that's a whole different kettle of fish. Why is that a thing? Why is that a thing? Because you use a different kettle for a different type of fish. So to catch a, you know, use a sprat to catch a mackerel, that's the same sort of, you know, sort of saying, barry was right, but. But no, he wasn't right. Kind of right. He just shouldn't have said net if he'd said trap instead of net if he'd have said trap, they should have said the kettle trap. Which it is. Which the kettle is named after. They named it after trap because it looked very similar to when they put the salmon in it and cook it. So they named the kettle the kettle that they cook the salmon in after the kettle trap qualifications fishmonger. Well, no, no, not fish. Bunger. Fish trapper and fisherman. Yeah, fisherman. Paul the fishmonger has been in touch to say Barry. Barry is right. Which means, actually, he was kind of nearly right. But you're completely wrong. Every single time, Dave. Every single time. I've actually posed questions before, James, but I've never actually answered one. But I don't. If you remember, I posed one about slugs. I'm a window cleaner. And it goes up the top of the. That's right. And they die. Yes, I did. Did we answer that? Yeah, you did. Apparently there was a disease in this. Someone come up with a disease, one of your top people come up with diseases. Why do you think. You don't have to answer this one. You're already on a roll, though. What? Why is it every time I'm convinced someone's asked a really. Or someone's provided a really stupid answer, or asked a really stupid question every single time it comes back and bites me on the r. On the arris. Well, that was going to be my next question. So that someone maybe might be at time for that. Give him a round of applause. Have a great day when you're cleaning windows. Rich is in Bromley. Rich. Question or answer? Serious inquiry. Rubbish not having it. Yeah, about the clinking of glasses. Shut the front door, mate. That's completely kosher. No, it's to do with wine and the five senses. I've heard this before. I mean, touch, smell. You swirl it round. Smell it. You look for impurities. No. Taste it. And obviously, the last one is sound. No. Well, we got told that on a wine tasting in France. Yeah, it's a new tradition. But the original tradition of clinking did not involve swilling and smelling and sniffing, did it? Well, wine's been around for a long time. So is beer. So longer. Prove it. I just did. But you weren't paying attention. It's kink. So, a bit of my drink goes into a bit of your drink at the end of a business deal, and it shows that we're not poisoning each other. Well, I think my one makes more. Yours is true of enophilia. Okay. Yours is true of the wine lovers law and legend, definitely. I'm not disputing that. But the original clinking of glasses, that goes back. That goes back to poison. Right, okay, then I'm not also. I'm also a little bit embarrassed by the last debacle, so I'm not having another one. Even if you're right, Richard. Not. No. Wow. Good try, though. Good try, though, rich. Oh, well, thanks anyway. You take care. 1241, Mahmoud is in Regents park. Question or answer, Mahmoud. Answer, please, James, carry on. Yeah, I've got an answer for the groom not being able to see the bride's wedding dress. Yeah, it's because I actually know this one, because I got married about a year ago, and I asked that question because I was in the same kind of scenario. Yeah. So it's because it was feared that if the guru met the bride before the wedding and he thought she wasn't attractive, he'd call off the wedding, which would cause shame onto the bride and her family. So we'd never even met her before. Sorry. He'd never met her before. Yeah, but it's because she's going to look extra special on the actual wedding day, because she's going to be in her wedding dress. And it's a tradition that the bride and groom were only allowed to meet at the wedding ceremony. But. Are you suggesting that change his mind? But they'd never met before. What do you mean, they never met before? He'd know what she looked like, wouldn't he, if he'd asked her to marry him. Or we going back to days where these things were arranged by parents and stuff like that. It's a tradition where. Yeah, kind of. I mean, the original purpose was also to keep the groom from finding out what the bride looked like until the last possible minute within regards to the veil. So the veil that she wears on her wedding day as well, you know, when he goes to liquor. Yeah, I can buy this, actually. And so it would perfectly possible that you'd never marry. Think about Henry VIII and Anne of Cleves and stuff like that. I don't know that it's true for normal people, though. You'd get mean, surely. Well, I mean, this. That's the. I asked myself that question when. When I. When I went to get married and this is, you know, this is what I was told. This is the reason why. So that you didn't change your mind on the day. So you don't change your mind. Exactly. Yeah. I'm going to give you a round of applause because, frankly, I'm feeling a little bit pathetic and I just want to buy your friendship after embarrassing myself with the last two. All right. Thank you so much. You're welcome. But it might. It might be open to a little bit of embellishment, that. Answer Neil's embassy. Neil, question or answer? I've got an answer to the shoelace question. Oh, good man. Why does it work better if you tie it up left handed? It's because you're. The knot you're tying is based on a reef knot rather than a granny knot. So if you do the first knot where you just. You overlap the two strings. Yeah. When you then tie the bow right handed, you're basing that on a granny knot, if you swap either of them round. So with the first knot where you overlap, or you tie the bow left handed, you're doing it on a secure reef knot so it doesn't come undone. Qualifications. I've been tying my own shoes for about 30 years. Yeah, all right, so have I, mate. But I don't know the difference between a reef knot and a granny knot. Qualifications? There's a fella on YouTube called Professor Shoelace and I'm a fan of his. Yeah. And he's a professor. I'm not, but he is. And he's done this. Has he? He's done this. He's got a whole channel dedicated to shoelaces and different ways to tie shoes. Are you yanking my chain? Because somebody in the background seems to be laughing and I don't know if they're laughing at me or with me. It's his wife. And it's true. Guys. All happening around yours, then, of an evening. What are you gonna do tonight, darling? Should put something nice on the DVD. Have a little bit of dinner now. Sorry, I've got. I've got some professor shoeless videos I need to watch. Round of applause for both of you. Thank you, Professor Shoelace. Ah. 1245 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Tom Watts is here now with the travel news. Thanks, James. Good afternoon. The a 40 closed coming into London 1249. All right, come here a minute. If this was 1982 and you were listening to this on your hi fi equipment or on your ghetto blaster, this is the bit where you would lean forward and press record and play on the machine to make sure you catch what happens next on tape. Alright, Rich. Rich is in Bromley. Rich. Hello, Mike. You know when you rang in a minute ago and told me I was wrong about the old clinking of the glasses and the poison? Yeah. When you absolutely just tore me down. Yeah, I remember, yeah. I'm really sorry. You were right and I was wrong. Brilliant. I'm not sure my smugness is coming over the radio enough. I'm usually smug enough for two, Rich. I'm usually smug enough for two. But it means that I not only do, I'm going to throw in a Liotta by way of an apology. Is that all right with you? Even better. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. I don't normally check my emails, but I just got bombarded with evidence that you were right and I was wrong. So, except with my apologies and don't expect this to happen again in a hurry. And this round of applause for you, rich. Thank you very much. Enjoy the rest of your day. Lizzie is in Northampton. Question or answer, Lizzie? It's an answer. Carry on. I don't think it's a Rayleigh otter answer, but it's an answer. It's about the eyelids. Oh, yes. Why do they twitch? Because you're tired. Oh, they twitch when you're tired. Do we need a why on top of that? Possibly. But my friend and I used to suffer from this and we called it flicky eye syndrome. And it happens when you're tired. I think I'm gonna need more. Why does it happen when you're tired? Do you see what I mean? Yeah, you could probably do, but that's. But it is tiredness. By the way, my husband is going to be seething because this is the second time I've got onto mystery out, and it's his favorite program. You might not get around. What's your husband's name? Alex. Does he listen on the podcast or does he listen. Well, Alex, this is a big hello to you, but you don't need to see too much because I don't think Lizzie's getting a round of applause for this one. I just. It does twitch when you're tired. But that's not the. That's not the why of it in the sense of the first question maybe you've answered, but the why of it is. Why does it switch when you're tired of that? I don't know, muscles. It's tiredness. Can I give Lizzie half a round of applause? That'll do. Okay. There's more. No. Well played. Rob's in trioche. Rob, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, sir. Yeah. What I don't know is why do we salute magpies? No, I mean you do. You salute a magpie for luck, one for sorrow, two for joy. It's an old song. An old little rhyme from the old, and an old rhyme from the olden days kind. I'm knocking him out of the park today. On I. Did you not know that? One for sorrow, two for luck, three for. Yeah, I've heard of that. Three for a girl, four for a boy. But what. But the whole salute in here, saluting it. For when you see the one and you say good afternoon or good morning, Mister Mabway, I just don't. Because they're supposed to be bad luck. If you see what magpie on its own, it's supposed to be bad luck. Superstition. And the way to undo the bad luck if you see one on its own is to salute. It's to salute. Did you know that already? No, I did not. That's because misses O'Brien's a bit of a. One for magpies and she. And if you see one, it's bad luck, right? If you see two, that's fine. One for sorrow, two for joy. So the way that you undo the sorrow on the one for sorrow, one magpie on its own to get rid of the sorrow, to diffuse the sorrow, you salute it and say a little thing it's a superstition. All right, okay, that's great. I'll take that, then. Finally restoring a bit of credibility on one of the most embarrassing mystery hours ever. Rob. Thank you, mate. Thank you. Barry's in Norwood. Barry, question or answer? I have an answer. I hope it's to the one about the wake behind the boat, because I've been so busy embarrassing myself, I forgot to repeat that one. Yeah, no, don't worry, I'm going to take you full circle. It's why pogroms and so on happen, right? It takes us out to Brexit and Donald Trump. It's the excitement of the molecules and there's a feedback loop. So when one molecule excites another molecule, that molecule excites the molecules around it, those then in turn excite the molecules around them and it feeds back on each other, which is why the wave carries on for so long. Really? Why? Really? Yeah, that's my. Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what you're about to say. That's my half baked theory, James. Then you thought, no, I won't get a round of applause for that. No way. No, get out of it. I nearly went for that as well. Molecular disruption. Professor housing Brighton. Professor Howell, question or answer? I'm going to have a look at the 50% mother, 50% father, if I may. Just to clarify, before, that last answer about molecules and wakes behind boats was bogus, right? I didn't know what he was talking about. Thank the Lord for that. Professor Howell, for those new to Mister Arrows, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Is DNA a 50 50 split between mum and dad? Actually, yes. It's 23 pairs of chromosomes and one of each pair comes from dad and one of each pair comes from mum. And what happens in spermatogenesis, when sperm are produced is you get a shuffling. So a sperm is not a half copy of dad. Each sperm is different. It's got some of the particular attributes that might be in dad, which is why you get different children with different features. So things like eye color, hair color can be either dominant or recessive, and in each different combination, different attributes of each parent come out. So your DNA could deliver your child different colored eyes from you? Yes, because you may have a gene, you may have a gene for green eyes or a recessive gene for blue eyes. And interestingly, blue eyes and blonde hair are both recessive genes, so they're kind of recessive and, like, hemophilia is recessive as well. Got it, got it, got it, got it. Well played. Is the mum's DNA always the same, then? Isn't egg? The royal eggs are the same? No. Well, the other thing is. Yes, it's sperm that determine the gender of a child. Is it x or Y sperm? But all eggs are x, so I didn't know that. Yeah. No, it's not. All eggs are x and you'd have x or Y sperm. Okay, you're gonna get another round of applause. That other thing while you're here, Caroline and I'll sort that out this afternoon. All right? Thank you so much. You're very welcome. Round of applause for professor hall. 1256 is the time, uh, Josh is in Gatwick. Josh, question or answer? Slightly. I'm gonna pick you up on the magpie one. Magpies, yeah. Are famous for life with a partner. Oh, yeah. If you saw one on its own, partner had passed away or died. One for sorrow. Usually they. Usually they come in twos. Sometimes you see three or four, which is when they greet because they stay in family group. Oh, sweet. So you can see three or four. And I saw that on the David Attenborough program about 20 years ago. But the question, Josh, actually, was, why do we salute a lone magpie? Right? Yeah, I know you salute a lone magpie because people used to think the lone magpie, being on its own, had lost a partner, and it was. It was a sign of respect, and people thought it wasn't. So being bad luck. Yeah, that's. That's it. That's what I said. She already had that covered. I need all the friends I can get this, Miss Jarrett. It's one of the worst ever from my end of the pitch. So a round of applause for Josh there. Well played, Josh. Slightly. Shop soiled that round of applause, but you know, legal tender Steve's in Belgravia. Question or answer, Steve? Answer. Carry on. The wake behind the ship. I say it's caused by plankton being damaged by the revolution of the propeller, which smashes the plankton to pieces, which releases the gases that the plankton's made up of. And what you're seeing is the tiny little bubbles of damaged plankton combined with their broken up little bodies. Do you know how big plankton is? Very, very tiny. Yeah. It will contain gases because it's a living organic organism. Yeah. But it's not going to get split into pieces by a big, whopping great propeller. Yes, it is. No chance. I've got no confidence there. Really big and heavy, and it got no confidence left. I'd have been laughing, laughing at you at 12:10 but I've made such a. It's like putting in a liquidizer. That's what you're doing to the plane. I'm not. I can't give you a round of applause for this, but I'm not going to humiliate you and mock you either. Oh, all right, then. Well, you don't really think. What are your qualifications, Stephen? I'm a London cab driver. Yeah. Listen, mate, I bet you you get Professor Hal on that and I bet you he'll find that it's right. You're damaging them little critters and you're not having it. Not what causes wake behind boats, disrupted plankton. Yes, because you're smashing this. I think you've got a fan. I think you got a fat 1259. James, can you say hello to Joe the textile designer up Richmond Hill? Mystery hour is the highlight of the week. Certainly not. That's it for me for another day. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The next voice you'll hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. From three to share or not to share? Changing rooms at swimming pools. I'm talking about. There are plans to merge facilities at a west London pool, including the showers. Personally, I use three different swimming pools, so I have a view on this. Do you? Let's find out at three from two. The Independent Press Standards association has ruled that Kelvin McKenzie was allowed to write a piece in the sun which suggested that Channel Four journalist Fatima Manji was unfit to report on the nice attacks because she wears a hijab and that she sympathized with terrorism. Plain discrimination and incitement in my book. What about yours? After the news at one, shouldn't the state be apologizing to not pardoning gay men who were prosecuted under homosexuality laws which have.