Do extras talk on set? - 11 Dec 14

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Time is four minutes after twelve. Mystery hour is upon us. Let joy be unconfined. How does this work? Well, it really couldn't be simpler. And given the conversation we were having in the last hour, it's sort of agreeably opposite, isn't it? The idea behind this feature is as simple as all the best ideas usually are. You currently have a question bubbling away somewhere in your consciousness, in the back of your mind, or possibly on the tip of your tongue, and you know that question must have an answer. It might be something quite high, brown, intellectual, scientific, might be something relatively silly, something that you've observed recently and not understood. Whatever that question is, if you believe it has an answer, this is probably the best chance you'll get this year of getting that answer. So whatever the who, the where, the why, the when, the whither, the wherefore, the what, whatever the question may be, ring me with it now on zero 345-606-0973 gets incredibly busy, this, but as I try always on the program, I give you the phone number when you need it. When I've got phone lines free, I will mention the phone number to you. And Thursday between twelve and one is busier, usually, than any other hour of the station's output during the week, but it still obviously frees up the occasional phone line. And when you hear me say the number, it means we've got one. If you've got a question, get it on the board as quickly as possible. If you're new to this, let me remind you, or tell you for the first time, in fact, that if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, or think you know the answer, the number remains the same. Incredibly busy, very, very hard work for everybody except me this hour on the program. That's probably why I enjoy it so much. So if you are politely invited to move along because your question is either considered dull or repetitious, if we've dealt with it relatively recently, please do so politely and promptly. Otherwise, fill your boots. I mean, it really is a celebration of knowledge. Oh, one other rule. You're not allowed to look stuff up, and that's, again, relevant to the conversation we had in the last hour. So if you hear someone ask a question, you have to know the answer to it. Some of the questions you'll hear possibly could be answered by resorting to Google or Wikipedia or another search engine. But this is a celebration of knowledge. This is a sort of pre library format. This is about stuff we know, rather than the increasing fear I have that we're bringing our children up in a world where they don't feel they need to know anything because they can find it all out so quickly. You know, that's not an exaggeration. You could now, depending on what your signal's like, pull your phone out of your pocket and get an answer to some of the greatest mysteries of our time. You could get an answer. Yeah, you just pull a phone out of your pocket, get online and find out anything you want to find out. But knowledge, proper knowledge, is a tool. It's not just a collection of facts. And if you've got the proper knowledge, then you can use the knowledge to do stuff, to build stuff, to respond to stuff, which is why I love this hour on LBC. So, questions, please, to start with. And as soon as we've got a few of those, we'll move on to the answers. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I will only repeat that number if phone lines free themselves up. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, well, you should by now know what to do. Let's kick off. We'll start with Farisha in Kenley Faresha. What's your question? Hello? Hello? Yes. Sorry. Just picking him up from out of the cot. That's right. Who? Mother of Jacob. Ten months old. Okay. What I want to know, Jane. Yes? Is why is it that babies do not copy you when you yawn? Why don't they copy you when you yawn? No, it's not. It doesn't seem to be contagious with babies. Well, it depends why adults do, doesn't it? Why do you think adults do copy you when they yawn? Something I want. There's no need to be rude. Empathy. Yeah, it's. It's a sign of security. So if I'm yawning, it means that everything I can see is safe and you're looking the other way, you're looking at me and everything you can see is safe, so we can both have a little yawn, which in cavemen days would. Excuse me, I don't remember agreeing to compete with Jacob. Jacob, you agree with James. Why is it that you don't yawn when mummy yawns when you keep me up at night? He doesn't seem to have the answer. I know why. Because Jacob is completely reliant upon you for his security at the moment, right? So you yawn. It doesn't mean he's safe. He's not going to yawn himself, but he knows I'm safe because I provide him with comfort. You're only safe in terms of what you can see. He doesn't know what you can't see. If he's an adult and he's looking at you, he can see behind you and he knows that you're both safe, so you're going to have a cheeky yawn. But at the moment, he's completely dependent upon you for his security, so he won't yawn when you do, because he's not got any independence or autonomy. Right. But surely his attachment is built, is being built based on something that's not conscious to him at the moment. No, you're over complicating it. Adults yawn. Yawns are contagious because it speaks of a tribal security that a baby can't be part of because a baby doesn't protect itself. I says, you might not be happy with that, Arthur, so I'm not going to give myself a round of applause. You've no idea how much that hurts. Julie is in Fulham. Julie, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. I've often wondered when you see a film, or indeed a television production, the year when all the credits have gone up, it's always in roman numerals. And I've often wondered why it's not 1943 or whenever the film's made, or the program, it always seems to come up in roman numerals. And I've often wondered why. Yes, you get MMl, C, one v and you think, well, we're not all mathematicians. Well, we're not all. I couldn't work it out anyway. I can work out basic numerals with roman, but I knew this once. Didn't we know? Didn't we know this once? I haven't heard it on your. On your show recently. I mean, how much attention do you pay? To be honest, Julie? What to the. I always. I've got a habit of looking for the year. I don't know why. No, I mean to the program. To my program. And we might have done it minutes ago. You were probably, I don't know, making yourself a sandwich or having a cup of tea. Well, I know for a fact you were up there. How do you know that? Clever clock started a five pile twelve, didn't it? Oh, yeah. Well done. Finished? Yeah. All right. You weren't there. I think you had your first person on just now with a baby. Yeah. All right. I was only just sort of making conversation. It's not the spanish inquisition. No, don't start me on that. No. Talk. Omida. Talkohuma. Yeah, I know. Spanish inquisitor. Yeah. Why are tv credits in roman numerals? Not only tv credits, it's films. Films? Yeah. Why do they do the year in roman numerals? I don't know roman numerals, but. So why don't babies yawn when adults do? I don't know. Babies don't yawn because they've not developed. They're not an adult, are they? No. And why? What? Who? When? The numerous numerals. Roman numerals. Yeah. All right, you're on. I'm just trying to keep you talking in the hope that the answer will pop into my head. But I'll level with you, Julie. It's nothing popping at the moment. No, I've not popped into mine for a long, many years. Yeah. All right, that's enough about your love life. I am a pop free zone at the moment, Julie, so I shall throw it open, shall I? To the floor. Thank you. Take care. Twelve is the time. Andy is in Mill Hill. Question or answer, Andy. Morning. Question, please, James. Bit like taste buds, right. You can differentiate between different tastes. Salty, sweet and nothing. Skin cells with your. With the nerve cells. Sorry? Nerve cell endings. Can they differentiate between hot and cold? Or is it your brain translating that information? Well, I mean, does that make sense? No, because if you jump into a hot shower, for example. Right. Yeah. Instantly. It's not instant. It's not instant. It has to. The information has to reach your brain via your nervous system. Exactly. So it's the same with skin cells and taste buds. Yeah, but I'll just give them taste buds as a kind of. No, but there's nothing. There's nothing that could be described as a sensation that doesn't occur in your brain. Right, okay, but is there a different set of nerve cells for heat and a different one for cold? You can't change the question now. Well, that's kind of the crux of the question. No, there isn't. I mean. What do you mean? One of us is being stupid, but I'm not entirely confident it's you. Well, I make the change. It doesn't, actually, but you. So you think we might have two types of skin cells, one of which picks up on heat and one of which picks up on cold. Well, I don't I don't know. The other way. I think your brain translates it, but I don't know. That's why I'm asking. All right. I don't understand the question, so I will leave it up there and hopefully someone who does understand it, because, I mean, to me it's obvious. All senses taste test, touch, smell, they all involve information being passed from. From the relevant organs, whether it's skin or nose or ears, to the brain, where the information is processed and understood. But I don't know, maybe I've misunderstood. Let's see if I get a round of applause for that answer. No, seriously, nothing. Right. All right. We'll leave it up there then. Paul's in Torquay. Hello, Paul. Right. If you have a blow in your dog's face, we'll get the ache with you. Okay? Yeah, but if you take the dog out for a ride, why do they always want to stick right out the window? Silence. Never heard that before. No, I have. That's the problem, mate. No offense. I know I've dealt with this before. I just can't remember what the flipping answer is. Well, it's not the same, is it? If I blow in your face, it's not the same as you being out in a lovely breeze. So it doesn't want me to go and stick me out the window of the car either. No, but if you're on the top of a hill and there's a lovely wind blowing over you, it doesn't irritate you in the way that you'd be irritated if I came up to you now and bleed in your face for a fixed period of time. Period of time. It's the same thing, really. It's. They're not you. Can I see what you're doing? But you're comparing apples with pears. You're not. You're not comparing light with light. The reason dogs don't like having their face blown in is the same reason you don't. And the reason they like sticking their head out the window is the same reason we like being out in a bracing breeze. I like it when a wife blows in my face. That's enough. 1215. This is LBC Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 20 minutes after twelve and mystery hour is upon us. If you accept that yawning can be contagious between adults, why are babies immune to it? Zero. 345-606-0973 do you remember Julie and I kept her on the line for a little longer than usual because I was expecting the answer to pop into my head. It flipping has popped into my head, but it's too late now. I remember now why roman numerals are used at the end of films and television programs. You can probably work it out for yourself as well. Question about skin cells detecting cold and heat that I didn't really understand. If you can answer that, I'll give you the money myself. And there's a couple other on the board as well, which I'll remind you of imminently. But let's get some more questions before you first. Kevin is in Wallingham. Question or answer? Kevin. Hi, James. Just a question for you. Just a quick one. Have you ever weighed yourself before you've gone to bed and then weighed yourself in the morning and realized you lost weight overnight somehow? Not yet, no. But I'll take your word for it if you have. Yeah. I mean, sometimes it can be, you know, as much as sort of like, you know, pounds. Sort of like one, two, three pounds, and I don't get nothing. I've been thinking about it. I guess it can leave us heat. I suppose you. You know, you can transfer as heat energy, but I don't see how you can lose that much. I mean, nothing's entering or leaving your body. How often do you do it? I haven't done it for a while, but I've done it on a couple of occasions in the past and. And you've been baffled by the weight loss that you've undertaken overnight? Yeah, I just thought about it. You know, I thought about the other night. I thought, yeah, I've done it before. I spoke to other people as well. I like this question, and I think I know the answer, but if I get it wrong, I'll leave it on the board. I think what you need to do, if you can, is think of food as fuel and yourself as an engine. Right. Yeah. So when you're asleep, the engine is idling. It's not actually off. So you're still burning fuel, you're still burning the food that you've taken on during the day, and it's being transferred into various forms of energy, some of which, quite rightly, you will say, will be heat energy. So some of it will involve sweating as well. That will see a little bit of weight loss. You're probably going to lose more weight overnight when you're hot than you are when you're cold. And, of course, as you digest food, as you burn down your fuel, you will also be, how can I put this delicately? Emitting exhaust gases as well. Yeah. Yeah. So the reason why, the only reason why you would lose weight overnight is because you are burning fuel while you sleep. That is food, and turning it into a lot, you know, I mean, I don't know how much you eat or indeed how much exhaust you emit during the course of the average evening, but that is the only answer going, I think, Kevin. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's pretty much, you know what sound persuaded. You sound like you rang in with the answer already prepared. What were you expecting me to say? It's magic, James. It's magic, Kevin. It's little sleep fairies that come into your bedroom in the middle of the night and take little bites out of your bum so that you lose a little bit of weight when you weigh yourself in the morning. I just thought it was, you know, quite a lot. Also, you move when you're asleep. So it's not just heat energy. Just think of all the other different types of energy you've got. Heat energy, you've got kinetic energy, so you still move when you're asleep. Some people, for example, my wife, move a hell of a lot while they're asleep. So that involves energy. You're burning up energy, then think of food as energy, weight. Anything you do makes you lose weight. So emitting heat makes you lose weight. Moving, exercising in any way makes you lose weight. Emitting gas would make you literally lose weight, because it moves from outside you to. It moves from inside you to outside you. What other forms of. I don't think you emit much light energy while you're asleep. What else is there? Kinetic? Any potential? I don't know. If you transfer it into. Potential goes into your muscles. No, mate, I've nailed it. That is the answer. Yeah, yeah, you can have that one. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Over the line finally, Kevin. Thank you. Our first professor is here. Professor Smith, professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Thank you. Carry on. It's to the heat sensor. Question for the skin. Hang on. Explain the question first, if you would, because I didn't understand. Do we have separate sensors in our skin for hot and cold, or is it that the brain manages to work it out from a single sensor? Yes. And the answer is, we do have separate sensors. Oh, joke held. Nope. Oh, Andy, I'm sorry, mate. I said one of us was being stupid and I did suggest. I wasn't certain it was me, but it was. Go on. So. And we have separate sensors for touch and for pain as well, so we've got lots of separate, different sensors that do in the skin, that do lots of different jobs. So there are different types of skin cells, so to speak? Yes, yes. Oh, lots of different types of skin cells, but more importantly, lots of different types of sensors in the skin which send messages to the brain. I have pointed this out to you in the past when you've answered a question. Your academic field of expertise is robotics. Indeed. Not humanix. Well, I did a lot of biology, but one of the things in robotics is we're trying to do is to make robots as much like humans as possible. So we need to understand human senses, touch, taste, sight, smell and so on. I think you've earned yourself a round of applause. I have. I don't know if you've picked up on this. I bought myself a robot hoover recently. You mean a robot vacuum cleaner? I do mean a robot vacuum cleaner, of course, it's a proprietary trademark, but I think everybody knows what I mean. Clever clothes. Yes. What level of technology is involved in a robot vacuum cleaner? Some are very simple and some are very complex, but I guess being so rich, you've got one of the most complex ones it can go. I mean, it can't do much, but it can do a whole room. It's got a sensor, so it kind of measures the room, doesn't it? Maps out the room in its own little brain and then hoovers it all up. Well, the simple ones just bump into things and say, well, I'm going to move somewhere else. But some are covered in ultrasonic sensors, so they don't need to bump into things. And some make complex maps of the whole room. I think mine is quite a posh one. Anyway, we digress. Would you like your round of applause? I live for that round of applause. Many thanks indeed. 26 minutes after twelve, Chris is in Tottenham. Question or answer, Chris? Question, James. Come on, then. Extras in any sort of series like EastEnders, carnation, street, background artists, they prefer. They prefer to be called background artists, Chris. Background artists. All right. When you see them chatting away. Yes. And you see them, you know, are they actually talking or are they just sort of moving their mouths? Because I never can understand when I sort of like, see these background extras in, say, for example, EastEnders, and they're in the, you know, visiting somebody in a. In a prison, you see them all chatting away, but I'm just not sure if they're actually talking. So do you think they might be miming, so to speak? Yeah, just sort of opening their mouths. I'll tell you why, because I was an extra once. Background artist. Background. Background Artist, Chris. Yeah, background artist. I think you're part of that. And I can't remember if we were allowed to talk. I'm sure we just sort of, like, was running up and down, but I can't, you know, not actually saying anything or moving our mouth, but I can't remember. But I'm just seeing so often, you know, chatting away, but I'm just not sure if they're talking. Were you mic'd up? No. No. Right. And I must admit, you don't see the background, what you call them, artists. Yes. Background artists don't see that. They don't see. You don't see them mic, but you do see their mouths kind of moving. And I think the actors, the sound man will be holding an enormous microphone over the heads of the people talking, and he won't be holding anything over the heads of the people not talking. Okay, so the ones who are not talking, anybody will say, for example, lip read. Yeah. Will be able to understand exactly what they're saying if they are talking. I have to point out to you at this point, Chris, that they'd be able to do that even if the person was miming. Okay. Yeah. But then that's what I mean. If they're mimin and I say, for example, saying, you know, do you, do, you know, don't say anything inappropriate. No, no, no. I'm just gonna say they could be saying stuff like, I, you know, I. I've not been paid for this, um, for this. For this part as yet, or. Yes, you know, I can't be bothered to, like, you know, be in a comedy sketch. You've just actually come up with a brilliant idea for a comedy sketch that must have happened, someone like the two ronnies, where the actual conversation that's been had by the background artists has nothing to do with what's going on in the foreground, but is considerably funnier than the main action. You're right. You could just imagine two background artists we can make some money for. No, pretend like, can we duck? Can we dump that? Can we forget that this bit ever happened? That's. We can write that up now. We could be the new two ronnies. Well, let's get on it. Seriously. It'd be hilarious. And then the focus just shifts slightly away from Doc Cotton and mister Papadopoulos. As long as it's 60 40, I get 60 because it was my idea and it was your idea for even know it was an idea. Till you spoke to me, you didn't even know it was an idea. Till you spoke to me, you thought it was a question. Oh, yeah. But still, come on. I mean, you haven't even answered it yet. I have. No is the answer. What, no, they're not talking, or no, they are talking? No, they're not miming. They have. They do talk. Normally. I have been on film sets and. And indeed, I've been on the set of EastEnders, and the people in the cafe who aren't the main characters, they do. They do chatter between themselves and the mic doesn't pick it up. I guess if they were really, really close to the action, they might be instructed by the director to mind, but generally speaking, they're not close enough to have their noise picked up, so. And also, they often want background noise. If there's extras there. You want background noise, Chris. Yeah, but I mean, I'm talking about, you know. I can understand that. I mean, I've got to go. I've got a. Seriously, mate, I've got to go and write some comedy sketches for my manager. Okay. Can you contact me? Thank you. Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1234 is the time I've often thought, especially recently, that you need an emoticon, an icon on Twitter to denote sarcasm, because you can put something on Twitter and it's sarcastic, but people don't realize it's sarcastic. They take it literally because written word has no way of intoning. You can't change tone. I'm going to have to start doing it here as well. If I'm talking to Chris, right, a few minutes ago, and his question is about extras in films or background artists, but focus on the first word there, extras. And I suggest to him that that would be a really good idea for a sitcom or a comedy sketch show. Yeah. Wouldn't it be hilarious to focus on the extras rather than on the main artistes? That obviously, I thought, obviously, was a reference to the fact that Ricky Gervais has made an extremely successful comedy program doing precisely that. But no, apparently, judging by pop Pendleton, Dan, Terry Tibbs and a few other people on Twitter, I needed to put a huge sign above that saying, this is a joke. I am teasing Chris. Anyway, consider the sign now posted back to mystery Hour. Why do babies. Why are babies not susceptible to the contagiousness of yawning in the way that adults are now? Roman numerals question. Can I answer it or do we want. Has anyone rung in with an answer to the roman numerals question? All right, then. I won't make that thunder. And I suppose if you've been a background artist. Tell us whether or not you just sort of. Now, here's something that will never work on radio. If you're a background artist, do you talk properly or do you just do this, like, move your lips in a way that looks like you're talking when you're not? James is in Canterbury. James, question or answer? Question, please. James. Yes. I would like to know if scratching coins on mending machines actually helps if they don't work the first time. I've never tried it, but I've always seen it licking them as well or applying a little bit. I mean, I know it's pretty unhygienic. What? Yeah. Well, you don't have to lick it. You could lick your thumb and then rub your coin. Fair enough. That works. I don't know whether it's a coincidence, but that's worked for me. So we need a vending machine technician to tell us whether or not manipulating the coin in any way will render one that didn't work last time more likely to work next time. But surely it's just because it's a bit off shape, so adding saliva to it, that's not going to add a shape. Might make it heavier. I don't know, mate, to be honest. I mean, you could probably have worked this out for yourself. You could have conducted an experiment. You could have found a vending machine and a selection of coins and then put some in and all the ones that didn't get accepted, you could have scratched or licked or both and put them back in again. You've seen people do it and you thought, oh, I know, I'm not going to try that for myself. I'm going to ring James on mystery hour and ask him if it works. Well, you're a genius, aren't you? I'm not a genius, far from it. I'm very glad I've given you that impression. We'll find out. I don't know if. Will we find out? I don't know. Let's. Let's wait and see. Mix in Romford. Mick. Question or answer? It's a question, please. Oh, yeah. I've never seen one snake attack another. No. And I've often wondered why. You know, most animals of the same speeds you'll turn on each other, but I've never seen it with snakes. Is that the question? Why don't snakes attack each other? Exactly. I'm not sure that the. I'm not sure the premises upon which the question is built a sound. Mick, what is that? Well, sheep sarko sheep. Sheep. Sheep. Sorry I'm not with you, mate. All right, cows. Now, have you. Have you ever seen a cow fight? Let's say. Yeah, I think probably. All right, back to the sheep then. Have you ever seen a sheep scrap? Possibly, but I think. I don't think you have. Let's say it's wild animals then. All right. You know, you see, you'll see fish, alligators, crocodiles. They'll go for each other. Well, will they? Yeah. If you ever, if you ever go to Florida and go to Gatorland, there's, there's crocodiles there with 3ft where they're talking. We're talking about wild. I thought we were talking about wild ones. Tell you what, we'll want one for a pet. All right. Well, what about. I mean, most animals don't fight each other, do they really? Yeah, they do. They'll turn on each other, won't they? You know. Yeah. I mean, if you. I'm back to my cows. I can't shake my cows. Cows are wild ish now. They're not, are they? Are if you pull their others. No, let's. Let's stick to wild animals, animals in the wild, all right. Kangaroos, are they box koala bears. I've never seen a koala fight of you. No, apparently koalas fight. You could be on some of your. Mick and I was taking the Mickey mit. Mick, um, koalas fight. Lions, obviously fight. Kangaroos fight. Well, maybe snakes do fight. I've never seen it. How many snakes have you. How much of your life have you spent watching snakes? Well, you hold it all the usual wildlife programs and things like that. And, you know, you'll see a snake pit when you. You will. You see, you see a snake pit and they'll just wriggle around inside and you never see one turn on the other. Well, I haven't anyway. Nor have I now, come to mention it. What does. Well, I mean, usually the creatures fight over mates and food, don't they? It's about getting breeding and eating. So theoretically. Do you know what? I owe you an apology. I was sniggering at your question in Woodley, Mick. I hope you didn't notice. But I shouldn't have been. It's a good question. Why don't snakes fight more? Yeah. I hope you get an answer before 01:00 so do I, Mick. It's 20 to one. Come on, help Mick out. Alex is in Forest Hill. Alex, question or answer? It's an answer. Come on then, to your extras caller. They don't speak at all? No, they definitely don't. It can also the signal that they primarily want from the main actors. And so they do move their lips. They just mime. It's amazing. If you're on set, you're watching it. It's absolutely amazing how good they are. It looks like they could be talking but they make it up on the spot. Go do it now. Do it now. Go on. Just do it now for 4 seconds. I can move my mouth. Just show us. Do it. Do what? Do it, do. Just do the miming without making any noise. Just move your lips. All right. Crikey, yeah, you're right. That is pretty impressive, mate. Seriously. No, I take my hat off to you. Qualifications? I work in the same in the film industry. What have you worked on? Where have you seen extras deliberately looking like they're talking when no sound emerges from their mouths? Most. Most recently it was a christian bale film called Exodus. Okay, Captain America, mister selfishes. I've never worked on extenders mine, but it's all the same. They never want extra speakers. I like this. And what is it you do? Special effects. I'll get in, yes. Explosions and blood hits. And can you do any now? Can you do any on the radio? No, I'm in my car. Lead us to the edge of the lake. Now. Let's have a swim. Seriously, it would have been great if you could have rung in and done some sort of apocalyptic sound effects. That's a pretty powerful. So it might not be true everywhere. But on all the sets you've been on, background artists who need to look like they're talking. Can't talk. Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing to watch them do it as well because it just makes no sense. So I owe Chris an apology. Yep, and I owe you. Hang on. As a professional, what do you think of my round of applause there? Because that's people. I don't work in sound effects. I do special effects like explosions and stuff, like real life fires and smoke and stuff, so. All right, but still, I mean, it's a pretty good round of applause. What would you. I mean, I can't do. I'm on the radio, mate. I can't do explosions and blood effects, can I? I can only work in sound. If you clap your hands really quickly, that'll be a lot better. Do you think so? Yeah, hang on. Well, better than that. Well, just do the original one. There you go. This is the original one. And this is now me acting on your professional advice. Yeah, now you're talking nonsense. Unbelievable. Anyway, did you get. Hang on. What about. They try it again? So what's the answer? Well, no, they don't talk. Oh. How did that work out for you? I don't know what that was. 1243. Nor do I. Jones, the engineer. That's what happens when we let him off his leash. Jane's in Weybridge. Jane, question or answer? Hi. I was wondering. It's a question. I was wondering, you know, these artistes that we see on the sand, that's the word of the day, isn't it? Artistes genteel program, this is. So which artists are we talking about now? The ones that spray themselves and stand still. The living statues. Artists. The living statues. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Some of them are elevated. How do they do that? I mean, there's a brilliant piece in the mail today about them. Have you seen it? Yes. Yes. That's what provoked my question. It does. It does answer your question, but not explicitly. And I thought. I thought the reason they didn't do it explicitly was so that they didn't give away the trick. So I'm a little bit. I'm having a bit of a tooth fairy moment here, if you understand what I mean by that, Jane. I did. I did wonder whether that would be. But how much of a mystery is. I mean, if I say to you that in that article, I learned two very interesting things. The first was that the ones I see every day in Trafalgar Square are dodgy, as opposed to the ones that use regulated pitches, and, if you like, are sort of professionally regulated. The second thing was one of the leading artists in this field used to be a welder. Oh, right. Okay. I'll say that again in my special voice. He used to be a welder. Is that helping? Right. Yes, I think so. Imagine a very, very heavy metal plate at floor level, covered perhaps with a blanket or a sort of yoda style landscape. But basically, underneath all of that decoration is a very, very heavy metal plate from which extends a pole with a platform for you to sit on. But the actual heavy metal plate is invisible, effectively. Yeah, yeah, I can. But what about the ones that have. Sorry. That's all right. Now you carry on. What about the ones that have got us like a walking stick? Think about it. What's it resting on? Okay. The same thing? Yes. Okay. All righty. Right. Lovely. Hang on. No, don't. Don't go away, because I have no idea what's going to happen now. Oh, why? Oh, we're back to the old. We're back to the old. Round of applause, Jane. Oh, not a diy one, then? No, not a diy one. And not. Not an unidentifiable, explosive, sort of like sound. Jane, thank you. A lovely question. And I mean people, I don't. Haven't spoilt it for anyone. It still looks amazing when you see it, doesn't it? It's 1245. Here's a mystery as mystery hour continues on LBC, people who yesterday we heard a sort of justifying torture, not the most sort of intellectually enlightened of positions, but still a fairly popular one. When the head of the CIA comes out later today and denies the findings of the Senate committee report. How can you believe him if he hasn't been tortured? The guy that's going to come out later and say, no, no, no, with all these tortures that we did yielded fascinating and deeply important information, no matter that an independent inquiry has found completely the opposite. How can you trust what the head of the CIA tells you if you're on the side of the torturers on this sort of issue because you think it is helpful and does yield information you wouldn't otherwise get? How can you be confident the head of the CIA is telling the truth unless he's actually been tortured himself? I'll leave that hanging while we solve a few simpler mysteries. The number. Let's go to Steve in southend first. Steve, question or answer? Does giving it a scratch or even a lick increase the likelihood of it working in the machine? The vending machine? It does, yeah. The way a coin mech works is that there's two sensors. So you drop the coin, it goes past the first sensor and then it goes past the second sense. And the computer, on board computer works out the time difference between the two sensors. Oh, yeah. So if the coin is dirty or greasy, then it slows the coin down. It goes down the chute. Right. You wash the coin or wet the coin and it speeds the coin up again. Good Lord. What about scratching it now? Scratching shouldn't make any difference. People do do it. Maybe. Maybe the questioner saw someone rubbing it or buffing it rather than your actual scratching. I like that a lot. So, lo and behold, giving it a clean would improve its likelihood of. I was offending this for 13 years. Say that last bit again. I was a vending engineer for 13 years. What about in the olden days when they were mechanical rather than digital? The sensor now is presumably a light sensor. Is it photoelectric cell? It is, it is, yeah. What was it before? Years ago, they used little levers. Yes. So same. Same principle. Same principle. Yeah. But what are you doing now? What are you doing these days, now that you're no longer a vending engineer? No, I'm looking for work. Oh, you may. I'm sorry to hear that, because I've got. I've got a problem here. Now, why is that? Well, I don't know how often this happened when you were a vending engineer, but my system's just gone down completely. Oh, okay. It's, uh, it's 1253, and my phone lines have stopped working. Oh, dear. So no pressure, Steve, but it's just you and me now till Julia gets here. Okay. So any funny things, any funny stories happen to you while you were a vending machine engineer? Yeah, yeah, quite a few. Give us, give us, give, give us one of the best. Well, you'd be in it. You'd be in a machine. It's usually. We normally work in the banks, in the big banks, and you'd be in the machine, and the others machine open. You'd be laying in the machine, you know, actually laying in the bottom machine. And the machine's on because you're testing it with a meter. Yeah. Somebody would come over and press the buttons on the machine, and you'd get this hit a cup drop, and you'd have to get out of the machine really quickly before this hot water went down the back of your neck. These are bankers. And you look at them and you go, what are you doing? A pair of legs hanging out the bottom of the machine, or whatever. They don't. Bankers were particularly bad at still trying to get a hot drink out of the machine when there was a human being's legs poking out of the bottom of it. Yeah, yeah. They don't know it's the legs poking out the bottom or the fact that the door is open and the machine is turned sideways. I I mean, I'm no expert, but I had to turn the machine off. Yeah, but, yeah, you normally do, but if you're testing it with a meter, testing voltage. Oh, it has to be on. So you're making sure you're not going to electrocute anybody yet you can't cut off the electricity. No, no, because you're doing a test on it. Happy days. Normally, you're laying in the bottom of the machine, testing. Did you ever get a hot drink land on you? Close, but no, I was quite fast. I love this. Are we all right now? Can we let Steve go? Steve, mate, you got Steve. I'm going to give you two rounds of applause. One for getting the answer. Right. And the other for getting me out of a hole there, really, because there is a sense from some of my listeners and contributors that my uninterrupted monologues aren't always as enjoyable as I like to think that they are. So thank you for rescuing them. Linda is in crouch end. Linda, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Linda. Okay. I lived in Australia for five years and apparently the red belly black snake will kill the brown snake. Yeah, but I. No, apparently the. Why don't snakes attack each other? Your answer is some do. Yeah, they do. So the red bellied black snake, which the brown snake is actually more dangerous than the red bellied black snake. So the red bellied black snake will attack a brown snake. Is that an answer to the original question though? Yeah, it is, isn't it? Well, I think he was. He was thinking more about snakes of the same species, like in a snake pit. So it's a good point. You're going to get half a round of applause. Some snakes. God, just half. I'm not really upset now. Okay. It's like being at home, this. I've just given you something and you're complaining about it. Well, yeah, the half round is good. Well, I think it's just gone down to a quarter, actually. No, no, no, don't go down to it. There you go. That's it. And you missed it because you're too busy moaning. You're very welcome. That's not fully definite, is that fully. Sometimes snakes do attack each other. I don't think that's what Mick was looking for. Mick wants to know why cobras don't kill cobras. 03456, we got Martins in Ottersden. Martin, question or answer? It's an answer about the snakes. Yes. Cobras eat other cobra. The king cobra is cannibalistic. It eats other cobras and other snakes. And the king snakes, their cannibalistics, they other snakes as well. I know this, I've seen it on the telly. What red books? Well, and they do fight for mates as well. They do. You know when you watch, like the indian snake, charmian snake rears up. Yep. They all snakes can do that. And they do that when they're fighting. It's like they do. You're right. So mix, just been watching and they twist around each other and they'll fight for a mate. Absolutely right. I can see it now. I've seen it on the teddy loads of times. Yeah. So just Mick's just been watching the wrong programs. Yeah. This whole question, this whole chapter of mystery hour. Not, if we're honest, the most glorious chapter in mystery hours history. But this whole chapter is built upon the fact that Mick has been watching the wrong sort of wildlife programs. Yeah, but King cobras are famous for eating each other. There's a shot of a. In Indiana Jones, in the first Indiana Jones film. There's a. There's a shot, isn't there, of a snake eating another snake. I can't remember. I've seen it, but I can't remember offhand. But they'll only probably fight. They've got a reason for a mate or for food. Same with all of us, really. Round of applause for Martin, please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's squeeze in Asher, who's in Stratham? Question or answer? Asher. It's an answer. Carry on quickly. We're very short of time. Uh, yeah, it's answer to the roman numerals. Why did they use them at the end of film and tv credits? Yeah, it's basically because when programs were first coming around, there were less of them. And if you put the dates in roman numerals, it made repeats more easy to do because there were less recognized. Get out of town. If you put their dates in normal years, people would realize that it was a program from five years ago, whereas if you did it in roman numerals, it would take less people that recognize that. So it was a deliberate tactic designed to camouflage the fact that everything was a repeat. Yep. Qualifications? I work in special effects in tv, and I asked the producer once, okay, let's see what sort of round of applause you get. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow. From ten. I'm James O'Brien. Here is Julia Hartley Brown.