What is the whip?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh. Three minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Quick nod to Fiona, who's in Argyle, who got in touch to lavish praise upon last night's interview of Barack Obama by David Olusoga. It really was, Fiona, an absolute treat. If you missed it, then I can't recommend it highly enough, especially if the madness of the last few years has occasionally made you wonder whether you might be the one that's going mad, as opposed to the world around you or parts of the world around you or, I don't know, 52% of the world around you. So something nice to get stuck into there. I think we'll just crack straight on. We missed you out. It is a weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you have a question that needs an answer and that you're confident must have an answer, so don't ring me up to ask me how long a piece of string is, then the number you need is, as always, zero 345-606-0973 it's hard to get through, but not impossible. Be patient. It used to be the busiest hour of the week, but the last 18 months or so, I gotta be honest with you, every hour is as busy as mystery hour used to be. There'll be exceptions. I say it out loud, not to boast, but to actually jinx myself, because I earn my money when nobody rings the show. But it's so long since we were in those in danger of that. You can usually tell if no one's ringing a radio show because they'll start talking about parking tickets, immigration or foreign aid. It's an absolute humdinger of an open goal. But if you ever catch me talking about those things, you'll know what's happened. Five after twelve is the time I mention it, because if you hear someone else say goodbye, if you try to get through and you fail. Patience, patience. Patience is a virtue. And I think, should we just crack straight on? I think we should, don't you? Yeah. Linda is in Orpington. Linda, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Linda, this is silly because everybody seems to know, but what is the whip that that's in parliament or that's in government that somebody has to have? Why is it called a whip? What is it? Yes, why is it a whip and what is it? Oh, I like that. I could just try. I mean, usually, Linda, we'd wait until Theo Oshawood had been smuggled into the studio and then we'd ambush him with a question like this and giggle greatly when it turns out he hasn't got a clue because he's supposed to be our political editor. If we don't get a call on it by the end of the program, I will summon him and get him to answer it. But you know what he'll do now, don't you? What? He'll look it up. He'll break the rules. He'll break the rules. But as soon as he. I mean, he'd be picking your pocket if you gave him half a chance. I shall try and find out. Cause I've covered politics for a while now and I've never. I don't think we've ever stopped to ask why is it called the whips office? You wouldn't actually whip MP's through the lobby, would you, back in the day? Although I wouldn't mind bringing that back if it was in a three line whip is even more a three line whip. Why a whip? What's it got to do with whips? What a perfect question. I don't know why you were apologizing for it at the outset. We shall find out for you. Six minutes after twelve is the time. If they did. I mean, there's a few MP's I'd happily horsewhip, to coin a phrase, but I'm not sure that that is going to prove to be the origin of the phrase. Nicky's in Dunstable. Nicky, question or answer? I have a question. Please carry on. Why on polo shirts or sweatshirts and so on. If their designer is the logo always on the left, why is it never on the right? Are you sure this is true? Yes. I've been thinking about. If you look at, can I say names like Lacoste or Pringle or polo? No, you mustn't say names like Lacoste or Pringle or polo. Nikki, we'll both be taken off air before you could say, I don't know, inappropriate advertising or something like that. Okay, I won't be inappropriate. So why they are always on the left? They're never on the right. Why is that? Is it to do with being over the heart or. I don't know. I don't recognize what you're describing and. But now I'm stopping to think about it. You're right. It is always on the left. The only logos I have are, I have some Ralph Lauren clothes, Polo, but they're all from TK. Maxx, you see? Well, there'll be second edition if they're from TK Max. I don't know what that means. Who cares? I've got. You know what the TK Max rule is, Nikki? What's that? It's not a bargain. If you wouldn't have bought it at full price. Oh, okay. So this is what you need to bear in mind. Otherwise you're going to walk in there, you're going to see something that was 800 quid retail and it's been reduced to 80 quid, and you're going to buy it and you're going to take it home, and two years later, you're going to open your wardrobe, you're going to think, why the hell did I ever buy that? It's absolutely ridiculous. It's the sort of thing Keith would wear. You could do what my son does. Yes. And slog it online and get more money for it. I've heard about this. I've had a friend of mine, always doing it, always buying it. Wheeler dealers fill in his boots. All right, so we'll find. Why is the logo. I'm actually wearing a thTc t shirt at the moment. All right, and where is it? Where's the logo? Well, it doesn't have a logo. It's like what they've done. And I will actually now have to make some photographs of this, because it's. You probably don't know, but I had a catchphrase last year, which was contempt for the con men, compassion for the cond. And my friends at the hemp trading company in Brentford have knocked up a t shirt which has got a logo on it, which is on the right. But it's not it. But it's not a logo. Logo. It's a slogan with a bit of a logo. No, that doesn't care exactly to be a logo. Just put my clothes back on now. Yeah, put that back on. Thank you. That's all right. Hundreds up, all sorts of images. I do apologize. I do apologize. Right, I shall find out for you. Why is the logo always on the left? I like that question. What does it go back to? I'm trying to think badges. It probably goes back to lapels. Does it? I don't know. Zero. 345-606-0973 so what have we got? We've got the question about whips and the question about logos. Those are two of my favorite questions in months. Tom. Zimbabwe. Tom, question or answer? I have a question. James. Carry on. Tom, can you get two or more viruses at the same time. Oh, get Mister topical. That's supposed to be viral. I'm sorry. No, I like it. I don't want the plural of viruses via. Let's not even go there. Off the top. I'm trying to think. If you had COVID, could you pick up. Can you have normal flu? Could you have coronavirus and influenza and traditional winter flu? Or would the corona sort of keep it out? I don't know. I mean, you thought. You'd have thought we would. Between us, usually when I start burbling like this and trying to pass it off as banter, it's because I'm waiting for an answer to present itself in my brain and it usually does. So I say, yes, of course it does. When I had coronavirus, I also had. But nothing's coming so far, which means it's a very good question. Hopefully some virologists have got some free. They may not need to be a virologist. We just need someone who's had two viruses at the same time. That constitutes a definitive answer to your question, doesn't it? Very true. We would need them to prove it. Tom, great work. Zero. 345-606-0973 why are the whips called the whips in the House of Commons? It's a great question. Why are logos on clothes always on the left hand side of the wearer's chest? Stage left, as you might say, if you were of a thespian disposition. And is it possible to have more than one virus at the same time? You can answer any of these or indeed, if you have a question of your own and the number is zero. 345-606-0973 Lee's in Carlisle. Lee. Question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on, mate. Why, when we see somebody hurt themselves, do we take a sharp and take a breath? We always tend to do it, don't we? But the producer laughs. She does. Producer finds other people's pain and misfortune the most hilarious things. I'm not saying it applies to everybody. Talking about my family's. We lost a cat last week. I've never seen her laugh so much in my life. She was borderline hysterical. It's not. Why are you laughing? She was borderline hysterical. Poor little Mickey. That sort of thing. Yeah. Everybody seems to do it, don't they? Yeah. I mean, it's not always when people hurt themselves. There's been a bit of a catastrophe, like a bump in a car or. Yeah, there must be a reason. Does it kind of wincey or. You're bracing yourself for pain? Possibly. I mean, subconsciously, because you are. You are kind of clenching, aren't you? As well as. Well I am, anyway. Oh, yeah. Okay. I like that. There may not be. I mean, we may not know, but when you see something traumatic, pain or trauma. Why did we do that? Wincing inhalation. That. Ooh. That's probably not the most lovely noise that I've ever made on the radio, if you're listening with headphones on. So I shall try not to do it again. So, we got viruses, logos, whips and. What word were we using? I can't keep doing the noise. So we'll just do wincing inhalations. I've got all their albums. Mitchell's in Camberley. Mitchell, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Mitch. So, can I call you Mitch? Sorry, that was a bit. Yeah. Thanks, mate. Carry on. Yeah. So, in 1965, the queen gifted the US an acre of land next to the Magna Carta in Surrey. Is that right? Down in runnymede? Yep. For the JFK memorial. Now, my question is, if there was a crime committed on that acre of land, which is technically. Technically counted as us soil, who would have the jurisdiction to investigate? So, I mean, it would pros. Your question is built upon the possibility that it would be the same as on an embassy grounds, where you do get diplomatic immunity, I think, of some sort. That's. That's. That's where the question comes from. The possibility that you get diplomatic immunity because it's on american soil rather than british soil. Is it or not? Well, all right, mate. I'm going to ask you the question everybody wants me to ask you. What are you planning and why? No comment. I don't know. Whereabouts is it? Because I was at runnymede a few times over the spring and summer. We took the kayak down there, went swimming in the river. It is absolutely beautiful. And I saw the Magna Carta memorial, but I missed the JFK one. Yeah, well, it's not very big. It's like you have to climb up 50 steps and it's just a big slab with a few. And there's an acre of soil there which has been gifted to the american people. Yep. In 1965 by the queen. Well, I love that. And you just want to know, who, under whose jurisdiction is that acre of land? Is it under british or american jurisdiction? That's it. Okay. I'll see what I can do. But just, you know, think carefully, Mitch. You know, if you can't do the time, then don't. Don't do the crime, wherever the jurisdiction may prove to be. It's coming out to a 12:15. I love that. I hope the premises upon which that question are built are correct and we can squeeze in one more, I think, before for the break. It's Sean in Leytonston. Sean, question or answer? It's an answer, James, I think. Carry on, Sean. Well, it's to the lovely lady who called in about the whip question. Great question, wasn't it? Yeah, it was great. And in fact, when Gavin Williamson got into trouble, remember he had the whip on his desk, this came up amongst our friends. I've just remembered where. Where we discussed it earlier. And apparently it's a hunting term. The whippers in were the chaps who would keep the dogs in order so before they. So they wouldn't go straying and lose the track the whippers in would. Oh, so it's a figure of speech, then, that does come from hunting? Apparently so, yeah. I like controlling the dogs, which is, you know. And the width's job is to get the mp's through the correct lobby. Absolutely, yeah. So that's it. I love that. So it comes from hunting jargon, hunting lingo, qualifications. I know, you kind of half told me. But you looked it up, did you or no? Well, it was. I think a friend of mine looked it up because we were discussing it when Kevin Williamson put the whip on his desk with that subliminal message to people that, you know, he knew. It was a whip and a little black book, wasn't it? Which in the subliminal message was, you better back. You. You better shut up and go away, otherwise I'm going to reveal what was in my little black book from my days as chief whip. Well, quite. And I'm sure we'd all like to actually know what was in the book. To be honest, I kind of would. Although these days, I tell you what, I wonder whether it would prevent you from getting employed like those spent convictions we were talking about in the last hour. Quite a few people pointing out that a government minister can confess to having used class A drugs in his youth and his employability goes unchecked or unchallenged. But if you got done twice for scrumping apples, you can't be a teacher. I digress. Slightly. Round of applause for Sean. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I like that a lot. Makes perfect sense as well. It refers to actual whips, but actual whips were never used. 1216. This is LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 20 minutes after twelve is the time and mystery air is underway. That's a lovely answer to the whips question. We need to know why. Logo. Keith's had a crack at the logo question. It's a very plausible answer, actually. It doesn't quite butter all my past nips, but it may well prove to be the correct one. Unfortunately, Keith is prevented from contributing to mystery hour or indeed any other part of the program except as a sort of theatrical device that I often employ. Worth so much more than that. Why are logos always on the left hand side of shards? Can you get more than one virus simultaneously? Why do we do that? Sort of wincing inhalation, that sharp intake of breath. There you go. The sharp. When we see something traumatic or painful happening to others. And there is an acre of ground in Runnymede that was gifted to the american nation to commemorate JFK by the queen, apparently. Whose laws apply? Whose jurisdiction applies? Zero 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those. Fran's in Cambridge. Fran, before I say goodbye to you, at the end of this conversation, will you say to me, litfest. I didn't hear it. Say it again. Lit fest at the end of Cambridge literary festival. I need to give it a mention at the end of this conversation. Okay. Now, question or answer? Fran? It's going to be an answer. Carry on. And it's why pockets on the left hand side? It's not pockets, it's logos. Sorry, logos. Yeah. Well, that came on from pockets. Usually pockets were on the left hand side. Fair enough. Which was to do with. Military soldiers were mainly right handed and they would keep all the cartridges in their left hand pocket so they could get to that easily. But then there weren't as many logos then. That's what we have now, the traditional design. Well, you would generally put an insignia on the pocket, actually. Certainly on jackets, you would. On blazers it would always go on the pocket and that would always be on the left hand side for the. So it evolves from there that logos are always on the left hand side of shirts. Yeah, because people are mainly right handed. I like that a lot. What are your quite. Keith's answer. Do you want to hear what Keith's answer was? I didn't hear his. Yeah. No, no. I haven't told anyone yet. It's top secret. Do you want to hear it or not? Yes, please. Are you sure? Sure. All right. He thinks it's so that if you're. Again. Because we shake hands with our right hands. He says if it was on the right hand side. He saw this on TikTok, Fran, so he's done his research. Yeah. If you shake hands, then it would cover up your logo and people wouldn't be able to see your logo if you were shaking hands, which is nowhere near as good as. Yeah, come off it. You don't have to be. It's not clever at all. You're just being polite. But it could also be that your heart is on your left hand side. I prefer the bullets, frankly. It seems a lot more feasible to me. And a lot of, you know, insignias, originally logos, as we call them now, would have been military in origin, wouldn't they? Badges of identity. Identity badges. What are your qualifications? Well, I'm a seamstress and a few years ago I was sewing pockets onto the left hand side and was questioning, why are we doing it on the left hand side? And we did a bit of research and we thought that was the best answer from what we could find. That sounds like the best answer we'll find today as well, which earns you a round of applause. Don't go yet. Remember. Oh, yeah. Litfest. Thank you, Fran. Yes, I am at the Cambridge literary firm Festival at 04:30 this afternoon in the highly unlikely event that 3 hours a day of me leaves you wanting more. Also, it stays online, so you don't need to miss Eddie. You can listen to it at the weekend. It stays online until about the 29th of the month. But I'm interviewed by David Runciman of Cambridge University about my new book and various other political issues. So if you do fancy tuning into that, then you can access it via Twitter or just Google. Cambridge literary. Oh, I would have come and seen you if you were in Cambridge. Do you know, I didn't know you were still there. There I was boasting about and Keith left your left, your diet. Well, I would have given you a free ticket, Fran, but it's all online this year, sadly. But inevitably, 23 minutes after twelve is the time. Great answers all around. Leanne's in Crawley. Leanne, question or answer? It's a question, please. Yes. Which is the first country in the world to turn to the next day? Well, it's New Zealand, isn't it? I don't know. Because on New Year's Eve. Yes, that's right, on New Year's Eve. Who celebrates New Year's Eve first? Who celebrates New Year's day first? Yeah, it's not New Zealand, it's some small South Pacific island, I think, but I shall. Someone else will prefer. How old are your girls? About eight and ten. That's a perfect age for that kind of question, isn't it? And are they under the impression that you're going to work this out for yourself, or do they know that you've sought. No, I did say it was a question for James O'Brien. I'll have news next year, possibly, about something in the annals. The arena of mystery hour. That is going to be a very exciting addition to the average nursery. Shall we say 24 or sitting room or games room? 24. I've kind of given it away now. 24 minutes after twelve is a time. What country celebrates New Year's Day first? What country becomes tomorrow before every other country in the world? Zero. 345-606-0973 Pete Sincreuden. Pete, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Where did the idea of throwing spaghetti against the wall originated? Italy. Okay, but I thought they. Why wouldn't you taste it? It's too hot to taste. Sorry, it's really too hot to taste. Was too hot to pick up. Yeah, but which is why you use a spoon to throw it at the wall. Okay, I'm not sure if I agree, but. So you hook a strand of spaghetti, you lob it at the wall, and if it sticks, it's ready to eat. It's al dente. If you had to do it with your fingers, they would burn. And if you put it in your mouth, it would be too hot. Oh, I disagree. Well, you can't really disagree. I wouldn't say it's al dente. Al dente means it's just been cooked, from my understanding. Oh, you can disagree about that bit. So what does it prove when it sticks to the wall, as I understand it, it proves it's overcooked because there's too much starch in it. But, I mean. Yeah, any. I'm not. I mean, I don't want to. I'm always very wary of criticizing questions because, a, it makes me sound like an even more unpleasant individual than usual, and b, it arguably discourages people from ringing in with good ones. But, I mean, I don't know that this is a very good question. Throw spaghetti at the wall? No, no, I kind of knew that. So why do you care? I just. And now I'm. Now I'm coming across like a bully. Pete, look what you've done to me. Now look what you've made me do. Pete. Okay. Yeah. I don't feel bullied. I just. Good. Yeah, that's unappreciated. No. Undervalued no, I'm glad I got through. All right, cool. Well, I'll leave the question on the board then, because you've given us all a lesson in good manners. But it's not a very good question. 26 minutes after twelve is the time. Do we do that? Is it a thing? Actually, is probably the question I'd like most answered. Is it a thing? Because I don't do it. You toss it between your hands until it's cool enough to pop in your cob and then you see whether or not it's cooked these days. You don't even do that. You just keep an eye on the clock and ten minutes is job done for almost every shop bought dried pasta. Although we had fresh last night. 27 after twelve. Roger. Is in rugby. Roger. Question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. So the space station's 250 miles above earth and SpaceX travels at 17 and a half thousand miles an hour. Why does it take 27 hours to get there? 17 and a half thousand miles an hour. It's a low orbit. Yeah. I mean, if the parameters of your question are correct, it's a brilliant question. But it just seems unlikely, doesn't it? So it's traveling at 17 and a half thousand miles per hour and it. How many miles away is it? It's about 250, I think. So. 250 miles. And yet it takes 27 hours to do it. Yeah. Well, okay. I mean. And you've checked this, you're 100% sure? Yeah, I am looking at it now. 70. I. But that. Oh, carry. 26354. 416. That doesn't make any sense, Roger. Well, no, exactly. That's why I'm there. I thought I'd try and get the. I just. I mean, it makes so little sense that I'm questioning the. I'm questioning the question again. But I did that in the last call and it didn't end well. So you'd have thought I'd have learned my lesson. Yeah. No, I'm fairly certain. I mean, even if it was going 1000 miles an hour, even if it was going 100 miles an hour, it was still only take 2 hours and 50 minutes, wouldn't it? Or two and a half hours. All right, you're on. But if you've got your facts wrong, Roger, I'm coming to rugby and I'm taking out with you in person when this lockdown is over. Well, I know if it takes 27 hours. Yeah. And it's 250 miles away, then you're kind of looking at 10 miles an hour. So either way, whether numbers are wrong, then it certainly goes faster. Than 10 miles an hour. Yeah, but. All right. No, I like it. It's on. You're on again. Presuming you've got your numbers right, that's a fascinating question. Why does it take 27 hours to get to the space station on Elon Musk's spaceship? Zero. 345-606-0973 given that we currently believe it's only 250 miles away, and that said spaceship is travelling in excess of 17,000 miles an hour, it's coming up to 12:30 already. So we need the question, not. We've done the logos, the viruses. Can you get more than one at the same time? The sharp intake of breath. Why do we do that when we see other people in pain? What's the first country in the world to celebrate New Year's Day? That is, who gets there first? And the question you just heard about the space station and why? When, who, what, wherefore? Throwing spaghetti at the wall. 12:30 is the time for Christmas. Safely, quickly and conveniently. Shop online at Robertdias dot co dot UK or click and collect to one of our high street stores. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 25 to one is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Jacob Rees Moggs. Do you remember him being on his feet in the House of Commons today, trying to defend the PPE? Or certainly been speaking in defense of these PPE contracts, claiming that if you call a plumber out in the middle of the night, it's going to cost more than if you call a plumber out three months later. I can't wait to hear him asked about this one pest fixed. You remember that pest control supplies company based in Littlehampton in Sussex? They were added to the high priority lane in error without a referral, according to the National Audit Office, which resulted in them, a company with net assets of 18,000 pounds being awarded a contract to supply PPE worth 350 million pounds to the NHS, which J Dog has compared to calling a plumber. But remember, they don't think you're stupid. It's remainers that do. Unbelievable. 350 million quid. And that's just one example from this astonishing cavalcade of cronyism and potential corruption that has emerged in this national audit office report. But what are you being encouraged to get angry about by the usual suspects today? Yeah, apparently the BBC is going to drop a pejorative word for gay from the fairy tale of New York song that we all love so much by Kirstie McColl. The late Kirstie McColl and Shane McGowan, and everyone involved in the song has said that if they were recording it today, of course they wouldn't use that word. But people who don't think you should get angry about hundreds of millions of pounds of public money being given to completely unqualified companies want you instead to get angry about the BBC on some of its platforms deciding not to play a song with a word in it that has, in the years since the song was recorded, assumed, quite rightly, a much more profound significance. Hey, hope 1236 is the time Alistair is in Egham. Question or answer, Alistair? I have an answer for you, James. Carry on. The answer is to the question about Runnymede and the acre of american soil. Yes, go. Okay. So. Go. So, I work at Royal Holloway University, which is sisterside Runnymede. I take my students to the JFK every year because I want to talk to them about extraterritoriality and the way that there are these exceptional spaces. And I'm sorry to disappoint your question, Oscar, but even though that acre of ground is owned by the american government, it is not an extraterritorial space. British law still applies there. I'm sorry to tell him, well, I don't know, that he was pinning his hopes upon it having a different jurisdiction. I'm not quite sure what he was up to. Someone sent me a remarkable picture that it's in black and white, so it must be old, um, of. Of some. There was some sort of explosion there. Did you know this? It was in 19, 1968, an anti Vietnam war demonstration. Somebody tried to blow it up. Well, I never. You live and learn. It's amazing. How do you know so much about it? What are your qualifications? Well, I'm a professor of geopolitics. Right at Royal Holloway. Wow. So I teach my students about, you know, everything from Guantanamo Bay and the Vienna Convention, which is the rule or the convention. That means that embassies do have that extra judicial kind of category. And I like to challenge my students by getting them to think about the JFK site as well, for exactly the reason that your questioner was asking about it. But we ultimately have to determine that it's not. It's not exceptional in that sense. What a beautiful answer. I know. An act of parliament had to be passed, though, so that the american government could own it under those conditions. So the JFK memorial Act in 1964 passed through parliament to gift the land to America, but without giving away british sovereign rights over that space. I mean, I'm tempted to give you a ray Liotta. Go for it. Well, no, I can't. I don't want to. Just do it on your say so. Keith's pulling one of his faces, but I'm not sure he's been paying attention. I mean. I mean, there's lots of professors of geopolitics in the world. There are. But how many of them routinely travel to runnymede to examine precisely the memorial that we're currently discussing? Well, my students get good value for money. I'm one of those pesky experts that Michael goes had enough of. Do you think you might be the only professor of geopolitics that routinely travels to runnymede to show his students? I think it's almost certainly true. I think. But then it's only about a mile and a half from where I'm sitting right now. Yeah, but don't bring that kind of thing into it. Oh, sorry. Detail. Have you been swimming there yet, ever? Oh, no, I've never been in the river. May I recommend it? Because I am not that kind of person. This may come as a surprise to you, but I don't have much in common with bear Grylls and people like that ordinarily. But the girls started going kayaking and then swimming during lockdown when we were allowed to travel. And they came back so up full of beans and excited about it that I went along, broke the habit of a lifetime and jumped in the flipping river. Well, it's certainly beautiful there in the summer on a day like this. Day, Alistair, obviously. But it was glorious to do it when it was, actually. So. Anyway, enough of that and a big round of applause for Professor Alistair. Plus Ray Liotta. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC if you build it. Thanks, dude. You're very welcome. It's better than getting tenure, that you know. Yeah, I could deal with the pay rise. 1240 is the time. I'm a radio presenter, not a miracle worker. John's in Chiswick, God's own country. John, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, John. It's the question on why does SpaceX not take ten minutes or whatever to reach the International Space Station? Because it doesn't go in a straight line. It goes in a spiral orbit around the earth a few times, moving out all the time, and eventually catches up with. Because the space station itself is traveling at pace at whatever it is. Yes. And therefore you have to catch it. Yes. Could you not plan it better. Exactly the right speed. You have to obviously catch it and slow down. So, yeah, when you dock, you're going the same speed. Yes. So, I mean, it's not even complicated when you think about it, is it? It's like if Wile E. Coyote is chasing the roadrunner and is only running marginally faster than the roadrunner, it's going to take Wiley Coyote a hell of a long time to catch the roadrunner. Even if the original distance between them and the speed at which wile E. Coyote was traveling seem, at first glance, to be the original. Thing is, as it were, straight up. But when they're meeting the space station, they're going round the earth on the same orbit, so they're not. So they've changed direction, as it were. Perfectly done. Qualifications? I've got a physics degree, orbital mechanics. Is this field of the discernment, isn't it? Orbital mechanics? Well, yeah, well, orbital physics, theory, astrophysics, I guess. Asteroids. Not exactly rocket science, is it, John? No, it certainly isn't. You're out of applause for John, please. A lovely answer. What a lovely mystery hour. Just to crown it off, glancing at my notifications on my phone, I think one of my children has just used my deliveroo account to order a food delivery to her school during her lunch hour. So we will be having words later today, I could tell you that. Either that or it's been hijacked. Joe's in Croydon. Joe, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Joe. So it's for the first day in the calendar or last day in the calendar, actually. Who celebrates it first? Who celebrates New year's Day first? Fiji celebrates it first and last. How last bit. Meaning the international date line actually crosses some of the fijian islands. Are you serious? Yeah. So this was based on a book that I read when I was a teenager called Maya by Justine Garda. Okay, who's a norwegian author? Yes. Probably known for Sophie's world, the guide to philosophy. I've only read that one. I haven't read the other one. Yeah, go on. Yeah, so that was my first. And then I had to. I kind of got addicted and had to read a few more. And this is about a british author who stays on the island. I think it's Samoa. Okay. Are you sure it was Fiji in the book, not Samoa? It was definitely Fiji. I think the island was like. So apologies. Pronunciation, I'm remembering, but I think it's like Tavuni or something like that. Tuvalu. Because I'm 90%. I don't. Oh, this is tough. I mean, you've cited a book. I mean, that was definitely. That was definitely, like, one of the main themes that ran through the book. I mean, the other theme was that he drank a lot of gin to keep the mosquitoes away. But it's the tonic. It's the tonic, not the gin. It's the queen. It's the quinine in the tonic that keeps the mosquitoes away. But, yeah, I mean, he was definitely staying on a bit for Gene island and there was definitely. It's a work of fiction, though. Yeah, but I know, like, Sophie, Sophie's world, it's fiction built on fact. I'm nine. I'm just sure it's Samoa. It's. What's a samoan? I. It's an island that's part of Samoa. I mean, I've. I've regarded this as fact ever since I. Ever since. Well, I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I'm. But I'm not closing the door. All right. Is that fact. Round of applause for Joe qualifications. He's read a book, which is always a good thing for a family life, anyway, but it's possible that. I don't know, I just. I just think Fiji's too big. It's a smaller. Anyway, we shall find out. What about that sharp intake of breath when you're witness to somebody else's pain or trauma? What's that about? Where does that come from? Why do we do it? Zero, 345-606-0973 we've done that. Probably done that and we've done that. Why? Can you not get more than one virus at the same time? No. Can you get more than one virus at the same time? Zero 345-606-0973 and that business about throwing spaghetti at the wall. Is there any kind of truth to that as a tradition? Because the fellow that asked to whom I was unnecessarily. Kurt, he doesn't do it. I don't know anyone who actually does it. Is it actually a thing? It might have come from a film or a cartoon, but if it is a thing, how does it work? Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Ran through all the questions, still awaiting answers just a moment ago, so I don't think we need to do so again. We might run out, actually, if I missed any out, Keith, have I forgotten any there? Got the viruses? The sharp intake of breath and the spaghetti is all I've got left. Have you got anything else? No. Tim's in Oxford. Tim, question or answer? I have an answer, James. Carry on. Tim, about the virus question. Can you contract two viruses at the same time? And the answer is yes. How do you know? Verging on ray literature here. I just like to warn you, I'll be the judge of that. Champion. I know because I have asthma, which means I qualify for the flu jab. Yes, and I was invited for the flu jab and I was told by my doctor at the time to have it, because if you contract influenza and coronavirus at the same time, your likelihood of death is far higher. Oh, Lordy. Really? Yep. So you didn't get it? I didn't get it, no, I. But he told you to have a flu jab in case you got coronavirus. Yeah. Because if you have flu and coronavirus at the same time, you're. Yeah, the viral load, I suppose, increases. It doesn't have to be the same virus. Yeah, I don't know. Nor do I, actually. You're more. You're not. You're not as silly as I am. I just say stuff that. It pops into my head. But I need someone like you here to go. I don't know. And then I have to go. Actually, neither do I. Don't know why I said that. Just the phrase viral load popped into my head and I spurted. Spouted. Spurted spouted. I'm gonna give you a round of applause. No, thank you very much. It's not Rayleighota territory. Because, I mean, you didn't even have two viruses at the same time. Tim, I didn't even have one. Well, there you go, mate. You just talked yourself out of half a Rayleigh hotel, which was never really on the table. Ed, I never even had one. Oh, dear. Oh, lovely part of the world, Ned. Ned's in Cleebury Mortimer, which is a rather charming corner of Shropshire, which is, for my money, probably England's most underrated county. Ned, question or answer? It's a steward's inquiry. Oh, hang on a minute. After that introduction, you're going to come and rain on my parade? Yep, carry on. Well, I'm going to rain on Keith's parade as well. Yeah, it's actually a combination of answers from people who've already rung in, but I think it goes back to the knights of old and having to show you colors. And if you remember that most knights were right handed in the left they carried their shield and on the shield was their logo. And as they went into battle, you wanted to see who you were fighting. So there was a correlation of that onto the tabard as well, which was the loose fitting tunic they wore over their chainmail, and consequently, that got transferred onto that and by inference, back to their clothing. I like it. I don't know that you've. As you. I think you said from the start, we're not removing anybody else's answer. It's an embellishment. It verifies it a bit more. No, an evolution going back. I mean, it's hard to think it would go back even further than that, but that. Yeah, that's a lovely answer. If you look at stairs in castles, for example, they're right. They twist around to the right. And as you know, that's probably because most people were right handed. They had the sword in the right hand and the seat shield in the left. So it was difficult to attack your nearest castle, probably Ludlow. Is it? Is it nearest Ludlow? But where? I heard about this over in Warwick. Is that right? That's a beautiful castle. I was in Warwick recording peacocks. Were you really? Yes. Because you're a sound engineer or because you have quite an odd hobby? Both. I'm odd under sound engineer. They make horrible noises. Peacock. Yeah. Not in the wet, they don't. You have to sit around waiting for hours for the little darlings to say something. In the wet? Well, it was raining at the time. Oh, you mean they don't make any noises at all in the wet? Well, like sheltering, were they? No, I know I misunderstood you. I thought you were saying that during. When it's raining, they make rather nice noises and the rest of the time they're making infernal. No, I think it's the inverse. Yes, of course. No, I've got beautiful answers all around, really. And good. Goodrich. Not far from you either. Wow. More heading down towards the welsh borders, but still a beautiful part of the world, not being down there. Oh, I recommend it heartily. The Hay literary festival is a good excuse. Oh, yeah, hay is good. Hay's gorgeous. But again, we're doing that. I mentioned that as well as the Cambridge one. Well, Cambridge is at 04:30 today. My appearance at the Hay Literary festival. Since you asked, Ned, because, I mean, I wouldn't. Yeah, I wouldn't inflict this on anybody unprompted. I think that's on the 29 November when I shall be interviewed by Stephanie Merritt, who, of course, writes historical fiction. Under the. Under the pen name SJ Merritt. SJ Paris. Right. So I'm glad we cleared all that up. The name of the new book, Ned. Oh, yes. Since you asked how not to be wrong. The art of changing your mind. Round of applause for Ned, please. I'm getting it on Kindle. Get it? Good man. There you go. A bargain price on Kindle. It is. 1254. I can't sign Kindle copies, which is a shame. But, you know, we all have our crosses to bear, and this is a lockdown period. Robert's in Portsmouth. Robert, question or answer? Good morning, James. Good afternoon. It's the morning somewhere. You know, that's the new year's Day question covered. Go on. I've got an answer for you, James. Yeah? Let's hear it. It's the sharp intake of breath. And the reason is because we have something called a mirrored neurone. So we and a handful of other animals have this. So when something happens, you know, somebody gets hurt, we feel that visceral feeling of an intake of breath, or, you know, a pain in our stomach. We wince and it's because of the mirrored neuron. What's the evolutionary reason for the mirrored neuron? I don't know. I'm a. I'm a thatcher. That's enough about your politics. What do you do for a living? Like you've never heard that joke before, I suspect. And then we're both speculating. I love the phrase mirrored neuron. It's probably because there is a likelihood that if I see you getting smacked and I'm going to get smacked next, and if I'm wincing, if I'm doing that, then I'm actually bracing for the smack, which means it would hurt less. Exactly. Yeah. It's a beautiful. Something along those lines, for sure. Yeah. Or in the same way as, you know. Have you heard of the phrase sympathetic resonance, where if you play a c chord on a piano, it will vibrate on the other piano? Yes, I have. That's the kind of. Yes. It's more like yawning. So when you yawn, I yawn because it means that there's nothing behind me that's dangerous because you're yawning. And if there's anything dangerous behind me, you wouldn't be yawning, you'd be going, mate, there's something dangerous behind you. Qualifications? Uh, I've got a bachelor of science in geology. Now, where did you pick up this. Where did you pick up this bit about mirrored neurons? Ah, that makes more sense. Yeah. I watched a documentary on spirituality, really. And one of the neuroscientists up there was describing this mirrored neuron and, oh, I love it a while back now, but I remember it. How's trade? I've got quite a few thatchers. Listen to this program, you know, over the years. It's quite a funny little. I guess it's like being a builder, isn't it? You just have a radio on because you're working outdoors and we keep you company. Yeah, you keep us company. Yeah, it's. You've kept us company for quite a few years. It's been wonderful, James. Thank you. Have a round of applause on me. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mind how you go up that ladder. 1256 is the time. Andy's in bow. Andy, question or answer? Stewards inquiry, please, sir. Well, we are now. Go on. Which topic first? The new Year's. You don't have to do a Stuart's inquiry because I said at the time that the question wasn't necessarily definitive. What have you got? That's all right. Carry on. Right, so according to my studies, which are not comprehensive by any means, the first place that celebrates New Year is the pacific island of Tonga. Yeah. I think Tonga, Samoa, Kiribati and Christmas island are all in the same time zone and so they're all in the same time zone. But the funny thing is American Samoa is the last inhabited island to celebrate new year, so there's actually a 25 hours gap between Tonga and American Samoa. So it. But they're only either side of the date line. But they're only about 5600 miles apart. So if you were that way inclined. Yeah, you could take a flight from. Yeah, you could do both. Celebrate the same new year twice. I love it. Are you something. You didn't give yourself enough credit there. You know a lot more about it than you originally let on. Well, you know what, one of my favorite things to do as part of my new year countdown here in London is I like, as I'm tucking into my lunch and say at midday on New Year's Eve, I'll put the news on and watch the fireworks in Sydney and then I'll follow it throughout the afternoon as it makes its way across Asia and across Europe and then eventually it's on its way to London. It's like, yeah, you nearly there. So that's part of my countdown. So, yeah, just curiosity. And those are your qualifications? Curiosity being pretty much. Round of applause for Andy. I love that. This year will be interesting, given the different states of affairs. Presumably in New Zealand, they won't have to have any restrictions at all on celebrations. David's in. Worthing. Last word, I think. Question or answer, David? It's stewards inquiry. Flipping eck. It's like Goodwood round here today. Go on. Yeah, it's on the SpaceX up to the space shuttle. I was watching the launch live and the docking and the reason why is they wanted the astronauts to have a good sleep. They got out of their space suits into their comfortable clothes and that's the reason why it took so long. If they could have got there quicker. That's not. It's not a Stuart's inquiry, it's a welcome additional bit of information. Okay, fine. For which I shall give you a round of applause, David, thank you very much. No, you're very welcome, because I think the orbital mechanics remain a crucial part of the conundrum. But the necessity of a relaxing and refreshing sleep obviously played a part in the overall total of time that it took for said ship to reach said station. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow from ten. I'm going to get to the end of this without breathing. Up next is Sheila Fogarty. You'll find most things boiled down to sleep, James, when all is in the grand assessment of life. Thank you very much indeed, James. See you tomorrow. Coming up later on the show, I'm going to be speaking to two of my social media heroines. Dawn o Porter, writer, presenter and co founder of Helpprefu, and Josie Norton, founder of Help Refugees Charity, as well. Co founder of. They'll be talking about the work they have done, the work they are doing and the work they hope to do, with new plans to raise funds. That's after 330. We'll reflect on that striking announcement in the House of Commons from Boris Johnson earlier about defense spending. A very substantial change of tack announced. Restaurants and pubs calling for help is 72% cent fear they will close permanently. We'll talk about that after three. First, though, Christmas. Come on, grow up close.