Why do people have surnames named after colours?

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's three minutes after twelve and it is traditionally the hour of the week that we spend together with the biggest of smiles on our faces. It's going to take me a while to crank up a big smile today, though I'm sure you find yourself in a similar situation. The best way to ensure that it happens is to ring in with a brilliant question, the number you need. And yes, it is just normal service zero 345-606-0973 if you have a question that needs an answer, then this could be the place where you find satisfaction. And look, we're still going to have very strict rules on how good the questions need to be, but you have got a better chance, I have to tell you, you have got a better chance of getting through now than you would have done at any other point in the last five years. I think at twelve noon on a Thursday, because everybody is still reeling from the content of the last hour. This is fun, but it's also illustrative. We will talk to Theo. I'll take a quick line from Theo on the sky thing. We can dive in. Just let me get mystery hour up and running first. So the question is simple. Do you have a mystery? Is there something lurking in the back of your mind that admits a who or a why or a where or a when? A wither, or even the occasional wherefore, not to mention whences? Why do we do that, James? Where does that come from? What's the origin of this? You know, when you see that, why does that happen next? And what happens when that does that to this and this does that to that? Anything goes. If you're still a little confused about just how wide the parameters are, stay tuned. Listen to the first two or three questions and you'll get a fair idea that we veer seamlessly from the sublime to the ridiculous almost, almost by the minute. There are two rules that will see your question excluded. The first is if it's boring, and I'm afraid Caroline and Rosie are the sole arbiters of that today. So if you ask a boring question, please don't be offended if they politely try to move you along. Second is repetition, which is kind of my lookout as by far the oldest member of the team. I'm not sure some of my colleagues today were born when we started doing mystery hour, but that means that if you ask a question that I can remember dealing with in the past, you'll be politely invited to jog on as well. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer. If you don't ring in and tell me the answer, your radio will melt. Seriously. It's a built in microchip based technology that we've been exploring and experimenting with for the last few years. I think that pretty much covers it. I'll only say the number when I've got phone lines free. I need answers. I'll ask you what your qualifications are when you ring in with an answer. And that doesn't mean I've got a bag of gymnastics award for and I passed my cycling proficiency test at Staple police station in 1984 because I'm way ahead of you on both of those. It means how do you know the thing you just told me? And that can be anything from I saw it on telly last night right through to I have a PhD in applied physics and the question you asked falls very neatly into my PhD thesis. That's happened as well. Seriously and kid you not, it's not like a normal phone in this. When are you going to realize that it's nothing like any other radio phone in? Seriously. I've got texters quoting Beckett. It's six minutes after twelve. Phone lines are open. Keep trying because we'll be turning over. We'll be sorting wheat from chaff and I'll have a quick word with Theo Usherwood, LBC's political editor, about events in the House of Commons while we've been on air. I'll be very, very quick because I don't want to get in the way of mystery. Alex. But Karen Bradley, the culture secretary has just said that she is referring Rupert Murdoch's bid from 21st Century Fox to take full control of sky to the competition and markets authority. This was the worst scenario for Rupert Murdoch. There had been a hope that she would in effect Karen Bradley would in effect the government would allow this one to go through even if there were some stipulations. 21st Century Fox already owns a 39% stake in Skye. Mister Murdoch wanted to take that stake to 100%. But Karen Bradley has just told MP's in the House of Commons that because of issues when it comes to how much of the media is owned by Mister Murdoch in this country, therefore Ofcom has recommended that this decision is referred to the Competition and Markets Authority. Was this the third way? Could she have announced today that it wasn't going to happen? That he wasn't going to be allowed to do. Does she have that authority? So this is the worst case scenario for Mister Murdoch. So there were, there were three scenarios. Wave it through, allow it to go through. Yes. Wave it through with some stipulation. Yes. Or refer it to the competition Markets Authority. I'm told Mister Murdoch is already spitting nails on an industrial scale after the general election result. The first time in 40 years that he's failed to persuade the british public to do what he wanted in a plebiscite in a national ballot. He's unlikely to be very happy about this. No, he will not be very happy about this. But Karen Bradley said that she was making her decision on the basis of the Ofcom review. The Ofcom is of course the broadcast regularly, God bless them all, which. And they'd found that because you know, obviously news UK which is owned by owners of times, the Sunday Times at the sun and the sun on Sunday and there are also some radio interests as well. Therefore it's not possible according to Ofcom just to simply wave this one through. And Karen Bradley has decided to follow that advice. One of the most egregious lies that Nigel Farage has ever told involves me and Ofcom. And unlike most of his other lies he can't pretend he hasn't because he wrote it in his own book. I'll tell you the story after the show. It's eight minutes after twelve. Ti washwood. Many thanks indeed. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC where my goodness me. The light relief of mystery hour, although temporary, is even more welcome than usual. Today Nigel is in Pembrokeshire. Nigel, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on mate. Why do you have names like John Brown, John Black, John White but not red yellow blue starting at the top. I'm going to give you one for that. Don't often get a round of applause for the question. That is just priceless. Why don't you know anyone called like Bob yellow? The greatest achievement of my life, James. Johnny Red, Peter Purple. Some colors have lent themselves to surnames and other colors haven't. I mean you miss Betty blue of course is a flying the ointment of your theory. I'd love that. I don't know if we'll get you an answer but you've already got a round of applause for the question so that's, that's a silver lining of sorts, isn't it? That's fine. Love it, love it, love it, love it. Thank you. Nigel. Why do you want to know is your. Is your surname vermilion? No, afraid not, no. It's just we listen to your show every day and while we're cleaning out our staples off, the sheep have been cracking it all night and you help us out a lot every day. Lovely thing to say. One of my favorite questions ever. How come some colours have lent themselves to surnames in Great Britain and other colors have not? I suppose it might just be scale, but if you know a bloke called Johnny Red, it doesn't actually undermine Nigel's question, because there aren't many reds around. There's loads of browns. There's a great thing about misses brown out of Paddington bear. Michael Bond, of course, passed away yesterday at the age of 91. Paddington bear. They approached him a few years ago, one of the refugee charities, to ask, because, of course, Paddington Bear was an illegal immigrant and they approached him to ask about Paddington's views on immigration or asylum or whatever it may be. And Michael Bond actually replied and said, paddington can't answer this because he doesn't do politics. But misses Brown, the housekeeper, of course, will answer it. And the answer was. Beautiful. If you don't follow me on Twitter, then I'll dig it out for you before close the play today, if you remind me, because it was a really lovely paragraph and, my God, it's so timely and heartbreaking. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time Kim is in Stanmore. Question or answer, Kim. I have a question. James. Carry on. Why don't babies get hay fever? Are you sure that they don't? Yeah. Well, I've never seen a baby with a hay fever. How would you know if a baby had hay fever? Well, they'd be sneezing in spring. But, I mean, how many. How many babies do you. Do you routinely monitor? We have a 13 month old and I've got really bad hay fever and so is my wife. Yes. She doesn't have. The baby doesn't have a fever. And from everybody I've asked, and nobody has babies have a fever, so that's the question. I mean, it's a double barreled question, then, because the first bit of it is, is it true that babies don't get hay fever and then, if it is true, why don't they? Yes, I'll allow. Yeah, I like questions. And when did you first display the symptoms of hay fever? I can't remember, but I remember having it in prep school, but not as a toddler. I like this. It's an immune system thing, isn't it? And the immune systems constantly. Well, I think it's to do with irritation of the. Well, something to do with histamines. I'm going to make you a doctor. Thank you. Seriously. Ok. Something to do with histamines. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why don't babies get hay fever? If indeed that is scientifically true. I think you should listen to the doctor though, when he tells you it's something to do with histamines. And why do some surnames lend themselves to colors? Or rather, why do some colours lend themselves to surnames but other colours don't? Justin's in merrily bone. Just in question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Um, when we have a nap, why do we say, uh, have 40 winks? 40 winks for a sleep? Yeah, 40 winks, probably. Did it come from a poem or a children's story or something like that? Well, that's why I'm asking you. Yeah, I know. I'm just thinking out loud in the hope that the penny will drop while I'm sort of just bloviating and blustering and then I'll be able to claim the round of applause all for myself. But I got nothing, Justin. It ain't happening. Second thing is, can I just apologize to my friend who's listening to LBC, that I was going to see him on Sunday, that I actually went out to see the lovely city of Brighton with my sister. Yeah. There we go. Done. Did you want him say his name? His name's Jonathan. Okay. I hope Jonathan forgives you. Although if he does, I don't think I want to dedicate any more of my program to passing on the message to you. You could have just sent him a text, Justin. No, I told him I'd be saying it, you see. Oh, I see. You're keeping a promise. Yeah, it's all gone a bit beacon radio. It's all gone a bit beacon radio. But I'm happy if you are. Mind how you go. 1213 is the time. Let's not make a habit of that, people, all right? Seriously. Ben's in fleet. Ben. Question or answer? Question, James. My toothpaste is stripey, my bubble bath is purple and my shower gel is green, but why are the bubbles always white? It's light, isn't it? Something to do with light. Oh, I can't remember. I thought you'd giving us a rubbish poem, then it started off sounding like roses are red, violets are blue, Camembert's stinky and so are you. But it wasn't. It was. It's just. This might shower down. The bubbles are always white. It's. I know the answer to this, but I can't remember it. So that's no use to either of us. Not really. I'll leave it on. I'll leave it on the board. Okay. Bubbles and colour. 40 winks. Babies in hay fever. Names and colours. A nice little collection of questions to kick us off. I've got room to squeeze in one more before the travel news and Jill in beckoned them is either going to provide it or answer one of the questions we've already got. What's it going to be, Jill? It's a question. Carry on. When it's very hot and you fan yourself, the air feels cooler. But it's actually still hot. So why does air feel cooler when it's moving? Wind chill factor. Yeah. What is. What makes wind chill factor? What is it then? You know, still the same temperature. This is turning into an anti. What's the opposite of an advertisement, Jill? I don't know. Come on, help me out. I can't do everything myself for the whole 3 hours. What's the opposite of an advert? It's like an anti advert, a deterrent. This is turning into a mystery deterrent. Half of these questions I know the answers to, but I can't remember. I'm a little bit battered after the last hour of the program. And that's no excuse. It's something to do with the air moving away from your sky. I'm just making it up as I go along. Jill, I'm so sorry. That's all right. I shall endeavor to get you an answer from someone who actually knows what they're talking about. Or at least can do a more convenient job of pretending to know what they're talking about than I'm managing at the moment. Let's get. Thank you, Jill. It's 12 15. 90 minutes after twelve is the time. Why do some colors translate into names? My friend Morris. I didn't know you listened to the programs. Just sent me a tweet with a potential answer. Maurice, you're not allowed to tweet answers. You can only ring in. And there's no special treatment for old mates. Do babies get hay fever? If not, why not? What's the origin of the first 40 winks for describing a kip? And why are bubbles all the same color when the liquid from which the bubbles are made are all different colors? And finally, Jill's question about why. I've remembered. But it's too late now, isn't it? Esprit de meaux. Esprit de scalier. Remembering after the moment has passed. Why does fanning yourself cool you down? I know that now. Nobody cares. Ross is in Paddington. Ross. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Why do babies or do babies get hay fever? Yes, they do. I had it as a baby. And how do you know? How do you know you had it as a baby? My mum told me. But there's more to my son, who was born in August 2015, has hay fever because in summer August 2016, his eyes were red and watering and he was sneezing. And now he's starting to talk a little bit more. He actually says, hay fever bad. Is he your first? He's our first, yeah. Have you had any others since? No, no, no. I only asked because when my eldest had. I was so panicked with the first one. I don't know if other parents do this, but with the first one I was running to a and e. I was running to the local doctors that we weren't even actually. Crikey, it was in North Kensington, actually. And then with the second one, it was like, I should be fine. With the first one. You really noticed the red eyes, the running, everything. Everything is up there. I've had a few because I was told I had the hay fever when I was a baby. I kind of had an inkling of that. But now he actually pretends to ring the doctor as well and he says, doctor, hay fever pad. Medicine, please. It's not a lot you can do, is there, medicine wise at that age? There is a pyrator for children. Of course there is. Yes. A small little spoon of that every day, which seems to help a bit. Takes the edge off. I mean, we were camping in a new forest over the weekend and it got really bad for him. So me and him was both spluttering all over the place, unfortunately. No, that's no fun. What, were you on that? Were you on the campsite, like right in the middle? The one where the ponies come and trace? Yeah, yeah, by Lindhurst. Yeah, by Lindhurst. Near that. When you can swim in that river bit near the. Your boy's too young for that. So you got that big hotel with the cricket pitch in front of it and then you've got that lovely little bit of river. Oh, I bet that was nice this weekend. Yep. We sat and had a nice cider and some fish finger sandwich. Life is good, Ross. Life is good. And lots of other people have been in touch to say my poor boy gets it. It's, it's, it's not common, but it definitely happens. But they don't get the round of applause. Ross, you do great stuff. I haven't been to that campsite in Lindo's for years, but it is absolutely beautiful. If you get the chance. Sally is in Sutton. Sally, question or answer? It's a question, Jane. Carry on. Hello. I was doing my nails a few months ago. Yeah. And I noticed that on the pad of my thumb my skin was peeling. And then when I got to the other hand, I noticed that the skin was peeling in the exact same place on my other thumb. Yeah. And I'm wondering, it's not really a mystery, our question. That's more of a dermatology question. I have one theory. Okay. Do you have any video games consoles? I do, but I don't play them at the moment. That's my son who plays them. Have you ever played them? Yeah, quite a lot. Yeah. Because I'm just looking at my thumbs and I have. On my left thumb I have what you describe, but on my right thumb I don't. And that's because when I'm playing FIFA, I change the settings so that I still use the D pad to control the players on the pitch rather than using the little joystick. You are using your thumbs equally when playing video games and that is why they are both peeling in the same place. I wasn't at the time, though. Yeah, it doesn't matter. It goes back. You can go back months, skin peeling. You've got dead skin that is being shed by your thumbs. It died when you were playing video games, being shed some weeks subsequently. I haven't played for about six weeks. It's not years, it's weeks, months. What else could it be? What else do you do with your thumbs? It's a family program. Sally, have you got any hobbies like something that involves thumbs? Like knitting or something like that? No. All right, I'll put it on the board, but it's a little bit niche. Why are Sally's thumbs peeling? I don't know that it's necessarily going to sweep the nation with a plethora of answers forthcoming, but if it's not, I mean, I think it's video games, but you're clearly skeptical about my genius, so I'll leave it on the board. What am I going to write on my list? Sally's thumbs, 24 minutes off of twelve. Dave's in Chichester. Dave, question or answer? It's a no answer, James. Come on then, Dave. And it's about the. The colors. It goes back to time when people didn't really have surnames. Yeah. And so they would get named after their jobs or where they lived or their hair color. Oh, yeah. And we do have to name red. It's Reed. It's scottish. Oh, it would be scottish as well, wouldn't it, with all that? All their redheads. Yep, exactly. Green. Green grocer. Green grocer or green. Well, yeah, there'd be a closer. That would be. I mean, the people who live by a village. Green would be called green. And same as the surname Bush. It'd be people who live near. Steady on, mate. It's a family program. I beg your pardon? Qualifications. And the excellent book mother tongue by Bill Bryce. Oh, well played. Yes. That's what my friend Morris, who tweeted answers came up with as well. Brown for brown hair, black for black. Smith. Smith for blacksmith as well, green for greengrocer or living the green. And. But then there wouldn't be anything that fitted yellow or anything like that, would there? I don't. Purple. No. No jobs. That's a lovely answer, Dave. It's got you a round of applause. Great work and suitably upbeat. And a boolean response. Another Dave. This one's in Croydon. Dave, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Okay, Greensleeve. The tune we all hear when we're on waiting, etcetera. Yeah. Who gave the royalties for that? No one. Maybe the two part answer. Does somebody own the rights to it now or does it filter back to the original Riders family? That. Round of applause ready, because I'm going in. It was written. I don't need it yet. I haven't even answered the question honestly. Anushka hasn't worked with us very often. She's a little trigger happy. On the old. On the old. Applause Dave? It was written, I think, by Henry VIII, which means it almost certainly wasn't written by Henry VIII. It was written by one of his top courtiers, possibly Sir Thomas more or someone like that, and passed off as the work of Henry VIII because it was about Anne Boleyn. Okay. Scale of one to ten, how impressed are you so far? What? So who owns the right, the modern rights to it? There are any modern rights to it because it is. It's out of copyright. There's a limit. There's a limit on. It's slightly different for music. Cliff Richard is trying to get it changed because he's one of the few artists that's lived long enough to actually still be alive when some of his early work moves out of. I don't know if it's quite right, the phrase copyright, but we all know what you mean by it. And I remember a couple of years ago he was talking about legal action, trying to fix that. I don't know what came of it. And happy birthday has been an example as well, of somebody. There were rights involved in that, but given that we're going back several hundred years to get to it. Had words, you know, it's got words. It's about Anne Boleyn wearing her green sleeves and how it gave Henry VIII the horn. That's a slightly kind of distilled version of how the lyrics to the song go. But that's your answer, mate. Okay, fair enough. That's good answer. Well done. Round of applause now, please. Well played, Dave. Brian's on the Kings Road. Brian, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So my son asked me a question which was, in a football game, if you score a hat trick, you keep the ball. But what happens if two players score a hat trick? He's an optimistic lad, isn't he? Probably the one who finishes the hat trick first, I'd have thought. But I imagine. I mean, I'll find out. But we need. I'm only going to take an answer from someone who has been on a football team in which two individual players have scored hat tricks, because I don't think there is a tradition involved. It will probably just, you know, it'd be like if the other fellow scored a hat trick a couple of weeks ago. Then the one who's never scored one before gets to keep the ball. But I like. I like the way your little boy's mind thinks. That is a glass half full. Well, Joshua has a glass half full approach to the universe, doesn't he? What if two of us score hat tricks, dad? Then who gets to keep the ball? You're on. I'll try and get you an answer. Who keeps the ball when more than one player scores a hatchet? They could be on different teams as well, couldn't they? Oh, no. Because then the winning team. What if it's three? All two hat tricks? Three. Oh, my God. This is a minefield. Brian, what have you opened? Richard's in Doncaster. Richard, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Richard. Actually, I'll let you answer it. It's the one about why does fast air move faster? If you've got it, I'll see if you're right. It's because the. As the. The waft hits your skin, the sweat. Technical term. Yeah, very much so. Or the breeze hits your skin. The evaporation from your skin of sweat, invisible sweat, makes it cooler because it then. Well, obviously the heat's evaporated, so your skin is cooler because of the wind. Go on, you do it. Then. Teach. Obviously, each molecule of air that hits your skin has less energy because it's a low temperature than your skin. Yeah. So energy is transferred from your skin to the air. If the air is moving faster, in a given amount of time, the energy is moving quickly. Your skin. Brilliant. And so it. It goes faster. Yeah. I love it. Qualifications teacher. Seriously? Well, I was a quit because it was too much. Too much like hard work. It's not the attitude. What do you do now? Do you mind me asking? Yeah, I work in aviation. Okay. Wow. It's not exactly rocket shop. No, it kind of might be. Round of applause for Richard. No, great answer. Very nice answer. That's it. So it's not sweat, it's at your actual molecules that are transferring quicker, which cools down the skin. It's coming up to 12:30. Still need some answers. Got quite a few on the board, though, largely thanks to me. So it's time you lot did some work. Richard and me can't do it all ourselves. What about the bubbles in the. Bubbles in the bath by Ivor windy. But no, stop it. Bubbles in the bath. Why are they all the same color when all of the unguents and the potions that we use to create bubbles are all different colours? You can have a crack at that. It's probably on the mystery hour archive if you're really desperate for a round of applause. 12:30 Simon Conway has the headlines. The Jar Jar mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC kicking off on Twitter after my admission that I still use the d pad to play FIFA. I had no idea it was controversial, but there you go. It kind of goes with the territory. 1233 is the time. Mystery hour is underway. Sally's thumbs. Why do her thumbs peel in the same place at the same rate? A couple of you have tweeted the answer. I've worked it out. It has nothing to do with playing FIFA, does it? You're right. We've done the air. Why are bubbles in the bath all the same color when all of the unguents and even toothpaste, you know, the bubbles are always clear or whitish looking and yet all of the potions that make the bubbles are not the origins of faulty winks as a synonym for a snooze. I tell you what, my handwriting is such a mess. It's perfectly possible there are some other questions that I've forgotten. If there are, I will. I'll come to it. 1233 is the time. Jason is in new cross gate. Question or answer? Jason. Hello, James. Question. Please carry on. I apologize for what may seem like a morbid question. My mother passed away on Sunday. Oh, mate. I'm so sorry for you. Thank you so much. No, to be honest, it was expected. She'd been ill for a long time, but my brother and I were by her side, so there was a lot of closure and relief as it was. But the reason I am calling is when she. Like, the last half hour before she died, her eyes were open. She sort of just. She was breathing. That breathing was gradually slowing and she was sort of staring into sort of the distance or past us. But what was really interesting, and I've googled this and I cannot find an answer on the web. And I didn't know if any. Any doctors have any thoughts on this. But just before she closed her eyes and actually passed away, she went really wide eyed. So instead of just staring to the distance, the way someone is, if they'd seen a ghost or really been surprised, super wide eyed, just before closing her eyes, grimacing and dying. And I'm just curious, is there any medical explanation as to why that happens or things. I can't find anything, that's all, really. I'll do my level best for you, I promise. I've actually got a doctor on the line waiting to answer another question, but it might be a little bit on, might be a little bit unfair to hit him up with this while he's waiting to talk about Sally's thumbs. I apologize for contributing to this. Don't be silly. No, it's lovely. I mean, I'm glad that it was a passing that was as peaceable and as pleasant as passings can be. I never know when I lost my dad completely unexpectedly. I never know what's better, whether having time to make that sort of preparation so that you're ready for it, or knowing that they didn't know it was going to happen. But we'll have that conversation another time, Jason. Okay. All right. Thanks ever so much. No, thank you. Mind how you go, mate. And I will try and get you an answer for the eyes at the point of passing and the eyes suddenly open so wide that it makes people watching wonder what the person passing away might have seen, maybe in their mind's eye. 1235 is the time. Guy is in Fulham. Guy. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. It's to Sally's thumbs. I think she almost certainly. She's got a condition called pompholics eczema, which is a type of eczema that creates bubbles. Pomflix is Greek for bubble and you get little bubbles on the hands which then form blisters and they peel and they're almost exactly symmetrical on both hands at the same time. Oh, Lord. It's not a big deal. It's not. It's not a serious condition. It's not a big deal at all. It comes and goes, supposedly related to stress and your hands sweat a bit more and that may trigger the reaction, but it's very, very common first class diagnosis. Is there anything she can do about it apart from sort of meditate a bit and calm down? I'm afraid. It's lots of. Usually lots of moisturizing cream when your hands start peeling, but that is about it. Fair enough. And mine is definitely not that because I've only got it on my left thumb where I use the D pad very controversially when playing FIFA 19 1975 qualifications. I already know. GP. Yeah. Can you answer Jason's question? Well, I think that may be to do with that in the process, shortly before dying, if there's a change in heart rhythm and so on, you may get a big surge of adrenaline into the bloodstream and that can cause changes in eyes and possibly someone. But to be honest, it's so variable, different scenarios when someone does die, that it's quite difficult to pin it down. Food for thought for him. You sound like a lovely man, Guy, if you don't mind me saying so. Oh, well, thank you very much and I'd like to give you a round of applause. Great stuff. Bedside manor, that's the thing, isn't it? See, I trust Guy 1237 is the time Robert is in Knightsbridge. Question or answer, Robert. It's a question, James. Carry on, mate. Right. I enjoy reading my books, but I've noticed recently that every now and then you get three or two stars at the bottom of a page. Yeah. It's not. It's not the end of a chapter or end of a paragraph. Anything that. I'm just curious as to what stars symbolize. Yeah, it's something to do, a type setting, but I can't. I don't. I don't know what. So I sure. I definitely put that on the board. I like that. So they appear fairly random, don't they? Yeah. Yeah. It's quite an old thing to have been, sort of mulling over. Now you come to mention it, I've noticed this in the past. I've never thought to myself, yeah, I'll give mystery a ring on that one. Well, I normally answer your question. See, I thought one time, I've got to come up with a question myself. Fair enough. What are you reading at the moment? The forgotten soldier by Guy Serge. Any good? Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. One of the best I've read. There's a recommendation. 1238 is the time. I received a couple of books yesterday, including a companion volume to Anne Frank's diary, because the publisher had been listening when we quoted Anne Frank on the anniversary of her birthday. And the thing she said, despite everything that's happening, I refuse to believe that people aren't fundamentally good or words to that effect. And amazingly, my eleven year old is reading Anne Frank's diary again, kind of addicted to it at the moment, so I was able to give it to her. So if you're listening, sir, I may have lost your name. I'm very grateful to you for the. For the submission. I've got the book, so I'll mention the thriller as well when I finished it because that's just won a CWA gold award, so that looks like a cracker, but the name currently, presently eludes me. Oh, and also, while I'm at it, whoever sent me that big box of chocolates last month to say thank you for some of the shows that we'd done, the Montezuma stuff, that was incredible. I couldn't find any name anywhere on any of the packaging. It got delivered by Ocado to the studio. So thank you so much as well, everybody else who hasn't sent me anything. Oh, come on, get your skates on. It's 1239. David is in Beckenham. David, question or answer? Uh, stewards. James. Go on, then. It's the name. God. Right. My friend's name genuinely is Jack Pink. And, yeah, I was at school with a lad called pink. What? Why? Is that a stewards inquiry? No, his name is Miles, actually. But what's the, um. Well, where would pink come from? That's not a steward's inquiry. I mean, they came up with a reason why there aren't any purples. There are any purples around that. Just because you found a pink doesn't mean that greens aren't named after greengrocers or village greens and blacksmiths. You haven't actually challenged the answer we got. You've added another one. You want to know where the name Pink comes from. All right, well, let's challenge the lady that put me through then accepting my question. There's no lady. That's my producer, Pink. So what do you want to know? Where does the name Pink come from? Yeah, the band. John Pink and the Pinkertons. John Pink and the Pinkertons. John Pink. Pink. Where would pink come from? Pink. Because no one's got pink hair, have they? Well, no, I mean, naturally. Pink. Have a think. I'm just thinking. Pink, pink, pink. Think. Do you ever see? I don't. I try and find out for you, mate. I mean, who is it? There is a shirt. Thomas Pink. Thomas Pink. I think that's a made up name to sort of just sound all classy. I could be wrong. Maybe there is a Thomas Pink. Dunny McGregor, about 100 pound a pop. I used to buy them before the kids came along, but I'm a few doors down. We all used to do things before the kids come along, didn't we? A few doors down from Thomas Pink. Now, I tell you that for nothing. David, you remind me. I've got a wine one for tonight at the o. Two. I can't turn up in what I'm wearing now. Won't let me in. Right. I shall do my best to find out for you the origin of David's mate, John Pink. Where does the pink come from? Clive's in Orpington. Clive, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Tee. When you tee off in golf, I know you put the ball on the tee, but you have a kicking tee. Where does the word tee come from? Why do they call a tea a tee? Why do they call it a tee? Well, why do they call a ball a ball? Well, it could be a pig. It could be a tea a peg. Yeah, but they don't. They call it a tea. No, but why do they call a club a club, not a bat. Yeah, quite. It's just. I mean, I don't know. Is it t shaped? Isn't it? Well, I. That was my thought. If you hold it up and look across it, it looks like a t. Yeah. That's the only thing I can think. That's Occam's razor in action, Clive. It's a thing of beauty. You just answered your own question. Wow. How did you do that? That's never happened before. Oh, come on. Again? Absolutely. That's incredible. 1242 is the time. Mark's in Macclesfield. Mark, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. Mark. It's about the football with the hat trick. Oh, yes. Two hat tricks. Who gets the ball there's? Kind of two answers really. I think in professional football it would be the player that scored the hat trick the quickest. I've had a. I'm afraid something quite remarkable has happened I've just had a tweet off Gary Lineker. What was his answer? He says two hat tricks in the same game, you get a ball each, it's simple. Well it's Gary Lineker I was going to say the most mate, it's Gary Lineker. There was one instance of my football team scoring three hat tricks in a game. No Wayneken, answer you that question. If it's a Sunday league team you've probably only got one ball but at the level that's it. I run an under nines football team and quite honestly our budgets aren't big enough to give out footballs for every hatchery you could but then there wouldn't be a game next week. Well there wouldn't be, no, quite right I got to give you Gary Lineker's round of applause because you're a good sport and I shouldn't have done that. That's a little bit. I shouldn't do that just because blue ticks and celebrities don't get special treatment it should get you with Chris Evans. Round of applause for Mark, guys. Thank you. Thanks Mark. Thanks Gary. It's 1243 John's in Fitzrovia John, question or answer? John, in your carry on mate, may need a doctor for this the constituents of stomach acid, I think the main one from my GCSE's if I recall correctly, is hydrophoic acid in your own time John yeah what I don't understand is one how does any food survive going through digestion but how does the goodness get through? And the reason I'm asking this is I've got to the grand old age of 64 and I'm trying to eat healthier, spending an awful lot more on health foods oh yes. Now if my organic apple has gone down through a small vat of hydrochloric acid, how are my benefits? I think we both probably are a bit ignorant of gastrointestinal chemistry but I think I understand the question so if I'm paying extra vitamin pills. Yeah that was kind, that was kind, that was kind of an attempt to move on John, I've got to be honest with you okay, so I've got the question on the board, I understand it but I suspect the answer is going to involve both of us getting a lesson in gastroenter intestinal chemistry that makes something of a mockery of the question in the first place, but I'm up for it if you are, mate. Okay. Thank you, James. Let's do it. 1245 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 1249 is the time and some questions still in need of answers. Oddly, 40 winks is still there. Why is that a synonym for snoozing? Why do bubbles in the bath appear to be the same color when the colors of the potions and unguents from which the bubbles come can be so different? What are the asterisks at the bottom of the pages on a novel? Not marking sort of page breaks or paragraph breaks, they just randomly appear at the bottom of pages. We might do the origin of the surname pink. We've done the hat trick. And how do tummies work? So if there's acid in your stomach, how does the good stuff get into your system? It's a slightly complicated question, but John needs to know because he's 64 and he's changing his diet a bit. 1250 is the time. Let me just share something with you that I promised I would, but usually I forget. This is when the summer campaigners about children being held at the Yarlswood detention Centre for asylum seekers contacted Michael Bond to ask whether Paddington Bear would lend his weight to the campaign. And this is the reply that they got. Whenever I hear about children from foreign countries being put into detention centres, I think, how lucky I am to be living at number 32, Windsor Gardens with such nice people as Mister and Misses Brown. Misses Bird, who looks after the browns, says if she had her way, she would set the children free and lock up a few politicians in their place to see how they liked it. And that is from Paddington Bear. Michael Bond, who passed away yesterday, told them that Paddington couldn't comment on the children being locked up himself, as he wasn't political. But misses Bird could, and that was the paragraph he submitted. Oh, what a lovely man. You know, if you watch the film, there's a scene in it where I think Paddington's on a train and it's pulling out of a station and there's an old boy who looks very at one with the world and he raises a glass to the train as it passes. And that's Michael Bond. Bill's in Crystal palace. Question or answer? Question, James. Carry on. Boom. Why is it a millionaire makes a woman's hat and a hatter makes a man's hat? I can't. I hate hearing my own voice in the background on the echo. Actually, oddly, for someone who loves the sound of his voice as much as I do. I don't know if that's strictly true. I mean, a hatter made. I think it's just the french word and the english word. Bill. Round of applause for me. I could be wrong about that, but, I mean, the mad hatter didn't confine himself solely to Matt. Man's hat. Men's hats. I think it's a. I think it's french and English, two different words for the same thing. But if I'm wrong, I'm wrong. Wouldn't be the first time. Roberts in Chigwell. Question or answer, Robert? Answer. Carry on. It's to do with the bubbles. Yes. Yes. Obviously to do with the molecules. They're broken up and separated by the air and that's. Breaks down the density of it. I'm tempted to give you a round of applause for the worst answer we've ever had. That has got to be the best answer. Yeah, that's kind of made it worse. Rob's in Blackburn. Rob, question or answer? Come on, then. 40 wings. Yes. Apparently, way there. Rob. Hold that. Hold that for. I've got told that thought. I'll be right back. I've got some phone lines free guys, and I need some more answers. The asterisks at the bottom of the page, the kind of little marks on the bottom of the page when we do. I think Rob's having a crack at 40 winks. We still need to know about why, at the moment of par passing, some people's eyes just appear to open super wide. I think guy, the doctor might have given us the answer involving adrenaline, but if you've got another answer, we'll take that. What else? The way that nutrition's nutrition, nutrients even, are absorbed in the stomach despite the presence of acid. I'd love to hear about that. Is there anything else I've missed out? Green sleeves, done the bubbles, babies and hay fever. Names and colors. Pink. The origin of the name pink. Why is David's mate John Pink called pink when all the other color related surnames appear to relate to something? It's hard to work out what pink relates to. If you can answer any of those, get in touch now and I might even have time for another question, if you're quick. Zero. 345-606-0973 Rob, where were we? Hi. Yeah, yeah. Apparently a doctor wrote a book sometime in the early 19th century about the well being of life and he referred to 40 winks as being sat up in the chairs. The best kind of quick rest. If you need to do some work later on in the evening. Why 40 winks, though? Where did it come from? Apparently he meant, like, minutes. It's like a quick shorthand way of saying 40 minutes is the best kind of. But do we know that that's where it first appeared? Well, that's what my dad says, and he's like an amateur historian, so. Good enough for me, Rob. Good enough for me. I like it. So it's like a power nap. It was the early, early phrase, 19th century description of a power nap. Yeah. Apparently people went to work in the fields, but then they had to get up again and, like, bring cows in and things, you know, and they had to, you know, have a quick nap. And he said that, like, you know, 40 minutes. Can you remember what the book was called? Not offhand. That's not. I don't know if you've got. I don't know if you've given me enough for a round of applause. You can't name the book or the author. Well, it was some doctor. I mean, I'm only going off on me. I know, I know. But your dad's not on the line. I can't give you the round of applause to pass on to your dad because he'd be able to answer the question properly and you can't. But what you've effectively done, Rob, to be clear, in answer to the question, what's the origin of the phrase 40 winks? You've just told me some bloke whose name I don't know invented it in a book I can't remember the name of. Don't make me feel like the villain. Now, I want you to say, on reflection. On reflection, James, I approve of your decision not to give me around of applause. It's fair enough, Matt. Good man. Thank you, Rob. Thank you, Rob. 1255 is the time. None is in Enfield. None. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's in answer to the question about the asterixes across the bottom of the page. It is, in fact, to denote a scene break. Normally, what you'd have if you had, like, continuous text on a page is you'd have a line break, which would just be a blank space, and then you start a new scene. But when that would. When you're laying the text out and that break falls at the end of a page, you put the asterixes there in order to make it clear that that's the end of that scene. And when you turn over the page, you'll be starting a new scene. Qualifications I worked for in publishing for ten years and I have typeset books. That'll do. I think I would have. I'm arrogant enough to have to have argued with you on that. That's why I checked your qualifications first, because I thought they were more random. But as you spoke, actually, it began to make sense. Well, they look like random, because they do. You don't know that the scene is ending precisely, but if you turn the page over, what you'll find is that the next line will not be indented. It will be full out, as in, it will be right out to the margin. And that's an indication of a new scene. Boom. Round of applause for Noel. Can I ask, inquire after your name or are you bored of explaining? No, it's fine. It's clearly, obviously short for Leone. I mean, of course it is. Sorry. Silly old me. Give me another round of applause. I talked over your last one. Pristine. Thank you very much, Noel. Phil is in Twyford. Phil, question or answer? Quick answer on the golf t one. It's nothing to do with the shape of it. All right, clever clogs. It comes from scottish gaelic words which means house, believe it or not. It's called a tay. T a I G h. That's because when golfers first played, the ball was set up within a club's length of the hole that you just played. And that was known as the house, which is t in scottish qualifications. Play golf for 50 years and I'm scottish. That's fantastic. Have you ever played at North Berwick? Yes, I have. It was very, very windy. That's a golf course, though, isn't it? Yeah. And they all claim. Is that where it got invented? Because a few places in the world claim it was invented, but North Berwick seems to have the biggest claim to fame. Sort of. Yeah. I'm not sure location, but it's close to there, for sure. Yeah. Beautiful part of the world. And it's earned Phil a round of applause. Thank you very much. We've done the campsite in Ringwood and we've done the north berry. Two of my favorite holiday destinations. Must be getting close to the summer. James is in Milton Keynes. Question or answer, James. I've got to be honest, mate, I've never been on holiday to Milton Keynes, but don't take it personally. Go on, then. Breaks down the food in the stomach and all the vitamins or whatever you want to call it, the nutrients are actually absorbed in the smallest intestine, which is the villi, I believe it's called. And that is the long and short of it. It seems reasonable to me. And the confusion that I think John had was he just presumed that the acid somehow destroyed everything. But it doesn't. It's quite mild. It just breaks things down. So the constituent parts then get either absorbed or rejected. Yeah. Because the stomach acid is quite weak compared to the normal hydrochloric acid that you would use out in the real world. Yeah. Otherwise. Otherwise we'd eat ourselves out from the inside, if that makes physical sense. Qualifications, James? It's something I've always known. We can't shut up. It's something I've always known. Try that in an a level. Oh, go on, then, have a round of applause. We're going to squeeze in one more. Sheila's here. Ben's in Litchfield. Question or answer, Ben? It's an answer. Carry on. In reference to the eyes opening at point of death from a hospital doctor, and I agree with my GP colleague, who called earlier. Part of it is sort of release of hormones, release of neurotransmitters like adrenaline, that he mentioned. Any person that dies in different way will experience it slightly differently, but that's a relatively common thing to happen. So, unfortunately, I deal with a lot of that in my work and that's something that I've seen as well. That is a beautiful answer and I'm going through a period of great sentimentality towards public sector workers at the moment, Ben. So please accept this round of applause with the very, very, very greatest gratitude. Many thanks. Many thanks to you and your colleagues and everything you do. It's just gone 1259. I'm incredibly late. It's me respecting Ben's colleagues completely disrespecting my own. It's all right. It's only Sheila Fogarty, though. I'll just have a rest while you jabber on. I'll do it again tomorrow from ten. Sheila's next.