Why do I need a point on my knife?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It's three minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC just by way of trivia. And thank you to whoever brought this to my attention. One of the most sort of prestigious former members of the European Commission for Human Rights, indeed, its president from 1972 to 1981 was a chap called Sir James Edmund Sanford. Have you ever heard of him? Boris Johnson's granddad? It's a funny old world, isn't it? That's a little nugget of information I wasn't previously aware of. So thank you for bringing that to my attention, Tony. Instead, now we turn our attention to other mysteries, namely the ones that are currently plaguing your existence. The little whats whys, wheres, wherefores, even the occasional wither that are bubbling away in the back of your brain. You got a question that you know has an answer, but youre damned if you can find out what that answer is. Then ring zero 345-606-0973 and ditto. If you hear a question to which you know the answer remains the same. But my favorite contribution of the week will win a magnificent prize. I want to say that in the way that Lord Persis has a brooch of purest green, they will win a magnificent prize. What is the prize? The prize is a mystery out ballgame. Boom, boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom. Forgot to do Dory's watch today. We've forgotten to do. We'll do it in a minute. Don't let me go home without doing Dory's watch mystery hour ball game, which is great fun, superb, superb bit of kit. You can find out more@mysteryhour.com and you can find out the full terms and conditions regarding your opportunity to win one within the next 54 minutes at LBC dot co dot UK. So let's just start. I think Ed's in Nottingham. Ed, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So the SPF, obviously the factor rating of protection of sunken. Yes. Is there a meaning beyond the number? Meaning is it 50 something, etcetera kind of thing? Yeah. So it's chicken and egg in a way, isn't it? So is it based on something or is it literally a scale that exists? It's literally just like that's the top rating you can get. Because I know I've not seen higher than like 50 plus, but yeah, because obviously you can get four. What is the actual meaning behind the numbers? I used to know a girl. Guys shouldn't really start stories like that on the radio, should you, in this day and age? I used to know a girl who used olive oil. Wow. When she was sunbathing, well, she was so brown, it was ridiculous. And obviously, if I was lying next to her on a beach, it was. Looked like a piano. Absolutely ridiculous. Thank you, Ed. We shall find out. What does the SPF mean on a bottle? Does it have a sort of broader scientific reference? Heather is in crop ready, is it? Yes. In Oxfordshire. Question or answer, Heather? Question, please carry on. Why don't we have solar panels on our electric cars? Is this a sensible question, Heather? Yes. Well, there's two thoughts that occur to me on this. The first is a little unkind, so I'd ask your forgiveness in advance. Okay. Have you granted your forgiveness in advance? Yes. Okay. How likely is it that you are the first person to have thought of this, and that all the electric car designers listening to this program are now kicking themselves for not having thought previously of the wizard wheeze of sticking a solar panel on the roof of every car in the country? Just genuinely, how likely is that? It's not very likely. But why have they decided not to do it? Well, that then becomes a question to which the answer is probably quite straightforward. As in, it simply wouldn't be efficient. You're not going to get enough energy from a solar panel on a roof to justify both the engineering and the expense. Well, if a car's sitting out in the sun all day long, surely that's charging the battery up? Well, yeah, but how big would the solar panel be? Big enough to fit on the roof. Well, that's not very big, is it? Well, they're quite good these days. All right, I'm going to get you an answer to your question, because I can tell that you're not. You've got no truck whatsoever with my polite dismissals. Speaking of polite dismissals, must catch up with what's happening at Lord's. You're on. All right. Why don't we put solar panels on cars? Someone's going to make me look stupid in the next ten minutes and it will probably involve someone saying, actually, hacktually, this is a technology that is currently being explored and is likely to be brought to market within the next few years, so it could be brilliant. You could be right. I'm going to stick by my first observation, though. The chances of you having suddenly ignited a light bulb above the heads of car designers and environmentalists around the world are pretty slim. Thank you, Heather. David is in Leamington spa. David, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Why do long kitchen knives have sharp points? Is it necessary for safety reasons? What do you mean? Well, what would you rather have? Well, whenever I use a long kitchen knife, I rarely use a sharp point. How do you open. How do you open those? Like a packet of chicken. How do you pierce the plastic? Well, I can use that with a smaller paring knife. I don't need a nine or ten inch knife. Yeah, but how do you, can you sharpen as soon as you start sharpening it, eventually you're going to have a point, aren't you? Yeah, but you don't have to have a sharp point which is capable of committing. So you. So this is a safety quit. You could have a safe, you could have a safer kitchen knives. So you could, you could have a, like a bread knife, but with us, but with a non serrated edge. And if you wanted something which is sharper, you have a shorter knife. I think, I think, I think is less capable of life in someone's life. Yeah. Okay. No, I'm glad that I realized where you were coming at from this before I got to too cocky, because it is potentially quite an important question. But I think that you are mis remembering the physics of cutting. You like a bit of cooking. I'm sure I do. And think about the angle with which you use a pointed knife when you're chopping or when you're cutting. You couldn't do that with a stubbed end, a blunt end. It wouldn't cut through, would it, in the same way. Well, next time you chop onions, have a think about that. I know I am, but you'd have to do it horizontally. When I chop onions, I roll the knife. Absolutely. Do you use the point, though? No, but I can't roll it unless it's got a point. Like a seesaw. Yeah, but you don't need to have a sharp point to roll it. But it's. But as soon as. No, it needs to have a point and it's going to be sharp. If the rest of the knife is. As soon as I sharpen the knife, the point will be sharp and I can't, you know, when you're chopping it like a. Don't like a tv chef and you need to roll the knife. It rolls up and down. Rolls up and down. Well, it doesn't need an acute angle point which is capable of penetrating something quite easily. Yeah. It may well be that unlike Heather, there might be someone listening to this going, Crikey. I'd never thought of it like that. Never occurred. Actually, James, I know the answer to Heather's question. Don't go there yet. Don't spoil it. Who's going to look silly? Just tell me this. Who's going to look silly, her or me? Well, I can't really say that. I like you. I love your diplomacy. It's gonna be me. Thank you, David. So, why. Yeah, you see what he means? You've got, say, a nine inch knife. It doesn't need to have a sharp point, and if it didn't have a sharp point, it would not lend itself to use as a weapon. It would simply be a kitchen utensil, a kitchen implement. Thank you. Why do they have to have that? Sharp. .03,456,060,973. Freddie is in Lincoln. Freddie, question or answer? Answer, James. About the electric. About solar panels on electric cars. Oh, yes. Interesting. So, actually, they have put solar panels on a few electric cars, so they have done it before. But the problem is you'll only get about 7 miles of range out of them a day, so they usually use them to power, like the climate control and the infotainment system. Okay. But there's two problems with them. One, most people keep their cars in a garage, so you're not really going to get any benefit from having solar panels on the roof. And two, if you do crash your car or have an accident, they can be incredibly expensive to replace. So, on a lot of cars, especially on a budget, and they don't really make a lot of sense. Yeah. So at the moment, it's more of a gimmick on a car. If you go into the car dealership, can you think of one that's got one? Can you think of one that's got one? There's definitely a new car that's just come out with them. Hyundai. It's Hyundai, yeah, I think it's the new. Yeah, I think August 2019, there was a. I forget how to pronounce it. I've always said Hyundai, but I think there was an advert recently that said you should pronounce it differently. But they released one in August 2019 with solar panels on the roof to help charge the battery. But as you say, that said, up to 60% of the power for the car's battery could be supplied if the solar roof was used for 6 hours a day. Mmm. I'm not so sure about that one. Well, it says it on the press release. Yeah, well, who knows? Anyway, so there you go. So I look stupid, not heather. Well, yeah, but not yet, but the technology might improve. It might improve. What are your qualifications? Nothing. I just really like cars. Perfectly good. Perfectly good. Qualification. Round of applause for Freddie. Please politely, politely request people to stop sending me pictures of knives. It's making my twitter account look very questionable. People would be expecting me. I don't know what they'll be expecting me to do to come out with some sort of gang affiliation shortly. So stop sending me pictures of knives, please. I see that the question that was asked by David is perhaps even more interesting than I allowed. Toby's in Salzburg. Toby, question or answer? Answer. James, carry on to the sunscreen question. Oh, yes. The factor printed on every sunscreen is a reference to time. And when it says factor 20, it means you can stay in the sun 20 times longer before being burnt. 20 times longer than when you've got nothing on. No cream on. Exactly. And obviously you can already spot the floor because there are various different skin types. Well, of course. So it's. It's not a very meaningful reference, but, uh. Yeah, so the way they made it up is they, uh. And they actually test this on. On pigs. I knew you were going to bring pigs into it. I just knew that that was. I don't know how I knew that, but I did carry on because. Hang on, because I. This is. Are you. Are you explaining your qualifications now? No, it's not really a qualification. No, but qualifications where there was a massive hog. Yeah, a massive hog. Hog, yeah. Pig. Yes. Male pig is a hog. Right. I know, I know, I know, I know. And it had this horrible burns on its skin and they explained. They saved this. This. This hog from. Yeah. From a place where they tested sunscreen. Oh, because the skin of a pig is very similar to that of a human being. That's correct. In terms of. As a fan of pork scratchings, I find that knowledge very disturbing. I agree. Always have scratchings. Let's not think about it too much, Toby. Yeah. So, anyway, qualifications? Animal sanctuary in Austria, where this has been explained and. But again, there's a big flaw that Boris Becker has a different skin type to Marcus Rashford. Yes, this is very true. And. But it's, you know, it's the best available measure or way of doing it. And it's a scale of reference. Yeah, there you go. It's a scale of reference. And it's to do with. Ty didn't know that. So he's 20 times longer with that one on than with that. So, massive round of applause for Ed. So we've kicked off all sorts. No, we haven't done the knives. So just the knives question still on the board. It's 1216 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. I think there is one mystery that we should probably deal with a little earlier than planned. Just double checking the timings on this. Just bear with me a minute, because I do. I've been doing it for a while now. You'd think I'd be able to remember, wouldn't you? There we go. Um, have we got any new production yet, Keith? What? No, nothing at all. So I'm just gonna have to shout Dory's over the top of woke watch then, and pretend that that's three days now, mate. Seriously, what do they do in all those booths with all the people with the deep voices going, Chris Moyles. Well, it's a. Okay. And now it's time for this week's. No, no, dude, wait. I'll cue you, fidget. I'll give you a visual. All right, ready? Because I'm going to say it. Yeah. And now it's time. What do I do? How do I do? I say Dory's watch and then do the thing or do. This is the first time I say Dory's watch when I say it over the top. Is that how we do it? Okay. All right. It's. It's 19 minutes after twelve on Thursday, June 29. And now it's time for Dory's. It is now 20 days since Nadine Dorries promised to resign as an MP with immediate effect. I repeat, immediate effect. It is 20 days since Nadine Dorries pledged to resign as an MP with, and I quote, immediate effect. Nadine Dorries has not resigned as an MP. And that is the end of today's Dorries. Is that all right? David's in Gurrock in Scotland. David, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So how do super injunctions work? We hear the term a lot in the media, I'll tell you now, you hear it a hell of a lot more than they actually exist. Well, possibly. Possibly not. Possibly. Most definitely. I can tell you that for nothing. But carry on. So, okay, in theory, and a theoretical super injunction stops the media talking about a certain subject. Yes. And therefore the person wants to keep it secret. Surely if the court that grants the injunction has to contact every media organization in Britain to say, do not talk about this, it defeats the purpose of keeping it secret. Well, not really. I mean, you sound a bit like Paul Dacre, which I apologize for saying that because his content. I know, I know. I feel awful even as the words came out of my mouth. But I think his argument was in a speech he gave a few years ago that precisely that. That the changing technology made some of this stuff impossible to. To properly police or properly impose. It's information that the media is ordered not to report. And of course, you can't report the fact that the injunction exists either, which makes it particularly tricky. How would the literally thousands of media organizations in the UK know that happens? That's not so difficult to do. I mean, just. I don't know what the answer to your question is specifically whether it's everybody who is. There's be a register somewhere, everything that's covered by IPSO or ofcom or. I mean, it is. They do exist. It is doable. There's just nowhere near as many of them as people are sometimes persuaded to believe. So you just any. So what you want is the definition of the organization that would receive news of the super injunction. Yeah, and I know the golden rule. I'm not allowed to ask two questions, but what would be the punishment? You know, you know, if you'd be in contempt of court? I think so. I mean, you could conceivably be jailed, but. So who gets. Who gets the super injunctions, really, is the question that we want to answer. Yeah, yeah. Like I say, just again, you're absolutely right. I'm probably listening too much to certain elements of the media, but we hear the phrase a lot. And I suddenly thought, well, hold on, how do you like. If you're a. If you're a radio manager in Inverness. Yeah. And you want to talk about something, and you talk about it, then you held in contempt of court, and if it is legal, then the old ignorance of the law is no defense. So you could potentially be charged with something, even though. You know what I mean, like the veil of secrecy should be. Defeats itself, you know. Yeah, no, I understand your question perfectly. I like it. 23 after twelve. Thank you, David. That's a good question. Tricky, because I'm a journalist and I don't know the answer. Where's the list of people who are informed about super injunctions? Anyone who is likely to report something. But the world has changed, hasn't it? Because that now includes everything. You could have a million followers on Twitter. You're a bigger media platform than most newspapers. That's why they hate Twitter so much. But you don't get sent news of super injunctions. Joe's in Warrington. Joe. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. It's about escalators. Excellent. I like it already. I don't know whether you ever noticed, but if you're standing on an escalator and you put your hand on the handrail, sometimes when you go up the escalator, your hand sort of moves forward as if it's out of sync with the step. Yes. Just wondered why that happens. I know this. Just bear with me a minute, will you? Gu rock. Not gurruk. Sorry, just clarify. Just clarifying that now, is it? If you've got a big wheel in. A little wheel, Joe, and a strap around them, that's not going to be it, is it? Because that's going to go the same. Would you got two straps on the same? Yeah. Okay, so I want you to imagine a big wheel and a little wheel. Yeah. Yeah. And now I want you to imagine a belt tied around both of them. Right? Yeah. Now I want you to imagine another belt tied around, like with about an inch in between on your diagram in your head. Yeah. An inch between the first belt and the second belt. Right. Right. And now start the wheels turning in your head. Are they turning now? Vaguely. So the. The belt at the bottom that's directly attached to the wheels is going to move at a different speed to the other belt because the other belt's much bigger. So why is it sometimes they seem to be in the same and sometimes they're not, though? Because sometimes the wheels are the same size. There are two types of. I'm making this up, but I think the physics. I think the physics is working. There are two types of escalator design, or the difference in the size of the wheels is pretty negligible, although one needs to be smaller. Therefore you don't really notice it moving ahead of you or the length of the escalator. You only really notice it on very big, long escalators because that is when. That's the answer, mate. There it is. That's when probably you'd notice it at Holborn, but you wouldn't notice it at South Ken. No, I noticed it at King's Cross. Yeah, that's a pretty big one. That's a pretty big one. Not the one from. All right, the top. All right. So the last bit doesn't work. The rest of it works, though. It's this. Two different sized wheels. So the belt is making a different journey. Do you see it? Can you see my answer? Can you feel my answer? I thought of. Yeah, not. Not sure whether you're right. Well, I mean, it's gonna. If it's true. It works if, you know, that's the escalator is a sort of belt, isn't it? And then the top of the belt is longer than the bottom of the belt, so therefore it will travel at. Anyway, that's it. I'm not. Did you want to. Do you want the biggest surprise of the day, Joe? What's that? I'm not giving myself a round of applause for this. Yeah, I know, mate. Some days, depending on my mood, I'll be doing a lap of honor by now. But no, if I turn out to be even close to the truth, I will be delighted. But I. Like I said, why does the. Why does the handrail go run away from. From your feet when you're on an escalator? Particularly that one at King's Cross. Thank you, Joe. From Joe to Jack. Jack's in Pabstow. Question or answer, Jack? It's a question, James. It's not an answer to the knife question, which is probably up my alley. Do you know? Do you know it? Do you know the answer? I do. I do. But I'm not. Yeah, I'll let some meals answer it. So my question is mirages, right? We've had a lot of hot weather recently. Yeah. And I. Obviously, now I'm driving as an adult. Well, congratulations. Yeah. For fifth time I passed the test and I don't see. I don't see mirages anymore. But when I was younger, when I was a child, I saw them all the time in the car. Now, is there a reason? A mirage? You mean like a full on hallucination? Yeah, on the road, like. Like, you know, say 100 meters down the road, you see like wet, wet, big wet patches, which was just not there. You just mean that the light, as it were, going weird. You don't mean you'd see. Because I think of mirages of people crawling through the desert and thinking that they've stumbled into an all inclusive resort and they have. That. I mean, that to me is a mirage. It's from. From Hanna Barbera cartoons or. You don't mean that you're not driving down the motorway and you imagine a McDonald's. No, no, no. You see big puddles of water, which I guess in the desert, when you're looking for water, you might imagine that they're oases or whatever, but just down the cornish road. I see. I used to see them going to school all the time and now I don't. Right. Is it because I'm driving or is it because I'm taller? I don't know what you're talking about? Well, it's like a. It's a visual hallucination of hot. I guess, hot air. I don't know. It's a. It's a. It's an optical illusion rather than a mirage. It's not a hallucination, it's. You're seeing. It's something to do with the heat. It only happens in hot weather. Right? Yes. Yeah. So it's the light. The heat coming from the road is doing something to the molecules through which you're looking at things and therefore it has become a distorting lens. Yeah, but does that happen more? Why doesn't it happen when you're an adult? Yeah, and I'm like. I'm driving and concentrating on the road all the time. I don't see. This is a mad question. You should have just answered the knife one. I know. I thought. The thing is, it came just before I came on. We're in now. We're. Yeah, I'm. It's a bit like that Shakespeare quote, so. Yeah. Which one? I've given it to you. You know, if you step, you've gone so far, you can't go back. That's the scottish player, I think. Yeah. All right. So why do you see those mirage things when you're little but not when you're big? Yes, you're on. How's business? Is it all right? It's about to get busy for you now. Going bonkers now, is it? We need it. We definitely need it. It's been very quiet. All right. Well, good luck. Thanks, mate. There you go. Do get to Jack's restaurants if you ever find yourself down in Padstow. Absolutely splendid establishments. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. So, the mirage stuff, the super injunctiony stuff, the escalator stuff and the knife stuff, all human life is here. Amelia Cox has the headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. No, you. You just defined a mirage while telling the bloke who'd used the word mirage that he didn't know what he's talking about. I said, that was. You just did that. That was not me. It was me. Terry's in Bournemouth. Terry, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Terry. Why do I always end up giving electrical answers? That's a question, mate. Hang on a minute. That's a question. What have you got? It just happens every now and again. Subjects come up that I've been. I used to work on the escalator at King's Cross, when I was an apprentice electrician on spooky, I know the reason the belt travels further is because the bit that we don't see underneath the. The ground surface, there's a whole gearbox mechanism, which also includes cleaning and maintenance access. So you're absolutely right that the belt does go further. Right. But it's purely because the way it is. Think of a gearbox. There's a gear as a massive gearbox underneath, where the motors are the drives, and so the belt has to go further round. Also, it's because if you take the measurement from where your feet are on the platform. Yeah. Up to the belt. Yeah. That is effectively a radius. So it is. You're right. It is traveling further. I just thought you might like me to confirm it as an x. I did. No. But then we don't understand why it happens on some and not on others. It would be. Again, it would be to do with the gearbox ratios inside. I don't know what that means. You probably find that it does, but it's not noticeable. Or it's a slip slip. The clutch is slipping, so they are synchronized, but the handrail can slip, whereas the steps can't. That might be possible. So I don't want to use a technical term. I don't want to bamboozle you with science, Terry, but could it be that the slipping clutch mechanism on the interrupted collar interface is playing a part here? You mean the one that's attached to the doobry? Yeah, I know the doobry. Doo doo doo. The one where you go to the stars and ask for a long stand. No, I don't. I think this is real. I think Jack is a gen. I think he's in your. Your old. Your old line of work. He says it's the slipping clutch mechanism. I know it's not. I'm not, like, asking for a jar of elbow grease or a new bubble for my spirit level or something like that. It's the slipping. If the clutch was slipping, then you wouldn't get the traction to pull the whole carriage along. So you would. On the. You would on the. On the handrail. You just wouldn't on the bottom bit. Well, they're linked. I don't know. So I'm kind of right. But then we don't fully know why it doesn't happen on all of them. All I'd have to do is just take a guess and say that it does, but it's not noticeable. Yeah, I think you're right. On a particularly long escalator, like the one coming up from the tube up to kings. It's a massive long escalator. Yeah. That's not the. Yeah, it's the. Could be tension. Could have a bit to do with the tension. Well, the 10th. No, not really, because the. No, no, then that would imply that this. That it's stretching and it's not stretching, it has to travel together. But the actual handrail is on a. Is on a different drive. Right. It's mechanically linked, but it's at a different ratio. Okay. Oh, God. That might make sense, then. That might. That would give you different experiences with different escalators, wouldn't it? It would, yeah. There's a theory from someone who presents something called secrets of the London Underground that it's done deliberately to keep passengers on their toes, to keep passengers alert. That seems unlikely. You know, I saw an episode of that. That's a fantastic program. Yeah. There's some old war rooms somewhere and I can't remember where they are. I can. I've been there. I've been there. Have you? I have, I have. I mean, like the old shelters, there's still some tunnels down there where they've still got the chalk on the wall from. From the. From the second world war when they were used as bomb shelters. Do you know what? Just. God, I can't remember where I was. My mom is 96 years old and she went through that. London. Still remember it. Wow. Oh, and who would have thought that so many years later? Us. I'll tell you what, if you were conceived down there, Terry, I'll give you a Ray Liotta. No, I'm not that old. Probably Cornwall, I would imagine. It's just a round of applause. In that case. 38 is the time. I forgot about that. I think I took a microphone down there. I did it for the. For the. For the. For the show. Neil is in Harlesden. Neil. Question or answer? Answer. Neil Rankin. Neil Rankin in the house. So that was Jack. That was Jack Stein a moment ago. I don't know why I didn't answer. Two royalty. Two chef royalty on the program today. So it's going to be the knife. Best mates as well. It's going to be the knife question, is it? Yeah, it is. It is. I mean, I've got. I've got quite a lot of knives. So there's either. There's two different types of knives, generally. There's one like a japanese chopping knife or a hatchet, which is chopping down. Yes. You've got a sharp edge running along one side or there's a slicing knife, which needs to go to a fine point in order to slice through something. That's what I was trying to explain. That's what I was trying to explain and fail which one it is. If you've got one sharp edge, you're always going to have a point, whether that point is 90 degrees or it's smaller than that, because you can't have one side with a sharp edge and not meet at a point. No, but in terms of, forgive me, stabbing, which was David's motivation for asking the question, you can see what he means. You could stab someone with a knife that you chop down with, rather than slicing with. But it would be harder. It would be. Well, I mean, if you're going to meet someone in a dark alley, if they're going to have a hatchet or a stabby knife, I'd be pretty. Just a word to anyone who's just tuning in. This isn't like a kind of. This isn't an advice show or anything like that. I want to make that absolutely clear. It was a question about knife design, which Neil, as a leading chef, is obviously very well qualified to answer. And that's what I meant about the physics of cutting. So when you're slicing, it has to be a rolling process which brings naturally to a point, or if it's a downward process, but it means you've got to have a sharp right the way to the end. So even a japanese, even a hatchet, which is blunt at one end, one side is completely blunt and flat and heavy sometimes. So it weighs down. Of course it'll still have a point, because otherwise it just doesn't have a sharp edge. Yeah, but it was a. But if you. If you've thrust it horizontally into a piece of wood, it wouldn't necessarily stick. No, but you could. Yeah, yeah. You'd be pretty stupid to try that. But if you did it like a chopping action, it would stick. Yeah. Yeah. You just got to change your angle. There it is. Like a cleaver almost. Yeah, exactly. Qualifications? Chef, knife enthusiast, collector, nerd. I don't know. We might take knife enthusiasts out for the podcast. I don't know if that's fine. Round of applause for Neil. Thank you, mate. Thanks, mate. Daniela is in. Radlet, Daniella, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. I'm a very big fan, so it's an honour to be on your show. It's not an honour, but it's a delight to have you here. Thank you. Your books are great. Your podcast's great, and your show's great. So thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. I have a question about why do we eat popcorn at the cinema? I was at the cinema the other day, and it's just. It makes terrible noises. It goes everywhere, and why is it that we crave it when we go into the cinema and just. It's. You know, it's a thing. Why? It is a thing. It always has been a thing. I mean, historically, it was. It was cheap and easy, I think, to do, and then it just caught on. So it's become a traditional. Why not corn? Or is corn. I don't know. Rice or rice. Cooking rice is much harder than cooking popcorn crisps. Potatoes are quite. Well, that's gonna be even noisier than popcorn and also not as cheap as popcorn. I don't know if it's noisier than popcorn crisps. Yeah. Yeah, it is. It's not as messy. No. Well, I'm gonna leave it on the board, but I don't think it's a. Like a. Oh, wow. Yeah, of course. Kind of answer. I think it's just a sort of. Oh, yeah, that makes sense. Way of getting sugar into people, you know, probably during downturn when they needed to sell something cheap because people couldn't afford chocolate or sweets, and then it just caught on the profit margin. Daniela on popcorn is absolutely off the charts. It is. What is it? Do you know the profit margin it costs about. Cost about two p to make a giant tub of popcorn. Oh, I see. And you pay, what, 595 for it these days? If you're lucky, probably more. What did you see, by the way? What was the film? It was. I can't remember. Well, it's not very memorable. I hope the director's not listening. Not that he'd know or she would know. I want to see Indiana Jones, but I've got. I've got this flipping book to write, so I'm gonna have to wait. Anyway, I will put that on the board. Why? Why popcorn at the cinema? You're right. It's not by far the most obvious snack, is it? There's so many things you could. I mean, fruit jellies really would be the best. Fruit jelly's in a. You just lick it. You do you. Yeah. Something that is not. Someone behind me when I went to see. Oh, I've forgotten as well now. It's contagious, this. I hope the director's not listening. Someone was sitting behind me. What's that? It's a big one. What's the big one? Lately? Oh, fast and furious. I went through the new fast and furious fella sitting behind me and he was on a date. The noises he was making, Daniela, were absolutely off the charts. And it was almost as if he kind of. He got. He got a handful of popcorn and instead of putting it into his mouth piece by piece, he was sort of. Sort of inhaling several pieces at a time while sitting next to him. I didn't shush him, though. I don't. I'm not a shusher. I also. It's not just a shush. If people are talking, I might shush them. But if you're essentially picking up on someone's eating manners, I think you're straying into much more tricky territory than if you're just asking them to stop. Yes. Okay. But anyway, there it is. You're on the. You're on. Why? Popcorn in cinemas. It's a lovely question. What. What about those mirages that young Jack saw but old Jack doesn't. Who gets told about super injunctions? How do you know whether you're going to make the list? That's all I've got left now. Is there anything else? I don't think there is. Let's squeeze in. James, who's in Stafford? James. Question or answer is a question. Carry on. Right. I'm a little bit nervous. First time caller, so bear with me. Of course, if you give a dog everything it needs, so it has food every day, it has fresh water, big garden. Yep. Why would it ever run away? Because it goes against all sort of instincts of survival. But they don't really run away, do they? Yeah. I've had dogs run away, some of them. How many dogs? I think it's fairly common that a dog runs away. Everyone knows not to leave a front door open with. Oh, I see what you mean. Right, sorry. Obviously they still have instincts now from thousands of years ago, like burying bones in case they ever run out of food. So why would they. Why would they run away from, like, food, water, everything they know is going to be there to. I don't know that they're thinking that far ahead in terms of security and they're fascinated by smells, so they're running away to get some lovely. I think you need to think of smells like. Like drugs or drinks. I mean, they love it. You know, when a dog really gets its nose into something, they quivering with joy, aren't they? Yeah. Why are you making that noise? Yeah. Wow. Whoa. I can smell something amazing. I could. Whoosh. And then it starts sniffing here and sniffing there and the dog's done a wee and that smells incredible. Wow. That's what's going on in the dog. It's not going. Got my food, got my snap, got my water sticking around. Taking it easy. That's what, what dogs do, it overrides their instinct. I mean, I don't think is their instinct. Their instinct is what. Wow, wow, wow. Smell. That's the instinct. The instinct is not. Hey, got my food, got my water. Taking it easy. You do. You're misrepresenting dogs, James. No, no, no, no, no, no. Because they, they will have, even if they can't find smells. Yeah. Just few. Through pure excitement, they are completely deserting their base. They don't know if they're not consciously, they don't. They think they'll be able to find their way back. They don't, they get lost. They don't just sort of brush off. They got their. Led by their nose. That's where the phrase comes from, I think it is now. So they're led by their nose out of the front door and then they get so caught up and excited by all the smells that they drift too far to be able to find their way back home easily. Yeah, but then if they were that good at smelling that they'd run out. Run out their front door, then obviously they'd be able to find a way back. No, because too many smells. Too many smells all over the place also. They get quite far. I'll put it on the board. I mean, it's a weird question because you're thinking that they're making a human calculation, you've fallen into a trap of anthropomorphism. So they're not. They're not, because what you're thinking is, I'd never run away if someone was feeding me, tickling my tummy every night in front of the telly. But never, never want for anything. I'd never leave the house. That's what you're thinking, James, because you're fundamentally quite lazy. But the dog, but the dog is not. The dog is a very different evolutionary consequence. He's driven by curiosity and by smell and by excitement. He's not thinking, God, I've got it good here. I've never gone out again. I've got it, I've got it good. Change the channel. Change the channel. Let's watch the equalizer. That's what you're doing. But the dog is not. I shall put it on the board. We'll see if you get an answer. All right, all right, thank you. 1248 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1251 is the time. Why do dogs run away when they've got all mod cons at home? Why does popcorn go hand in hand with cinemas? Why do children see mirages? Why did little Jack see mirages when he was driving around Cornwall, but big Jack doesn't? And who gets super injunctions? Who gets to see them? Who gets told about them? 1251 is the time. Ryan is in Wolverhampton. Ryan, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about escalators. I think Terry was a little bit wrong. Escalators, yeah, go on. Yeah, yeah. So, basically, both the escalator handrails have a wheel underneath which drives the handrail. And that, in theory, the handrail should run exactly the same speed as the steps to stop people from slipping forward, pulling themselves over or pulling themselves over or something like that. Yeah, exactly. So sometimes you might notice when you're holding onto a handrail, it'll slip backwards. Yeah. That's because there's not enough pressure applied to it. Tension. Yes, tension, exactly. I said that. Yeah. So if it's going too fast, there's probably too much tension on it, but it's more common for him to slip back, which means there's not enough pressure applied. So there's like. Basically, there's a bank of. Bank of rollers that run, push the handrail against this wheel, and if it's not tight enough against the wheel, then there'll not be enough pressure on it. So it'll slip backwards, basically. So, yeah. Okay, so it's the tightness and. Hang on. So is it on the same wheel as the bottom bit, the bit that your feet are on the steps. So there's a. The steps run off a sprocket connected to the motor. Yeah. And then there's a chain between the sprocket of the steps and the handrail drive. Exactly what I said. This is exactly. Did you hear my original answer, like, before? I did, yeah. I was flipping, right, wasn't I, with that thing I did. I drew a picture in everyone's mind of two sprockets. I called them wheels instead of sprocket. Oh, hang on, so it's got nothing to do with the size of the sprockets, has it? No, no, I got that bit. I got that. That bit I got wrong. But the rest of it was slightly wrong. But the rest of it, you wasn't too bad. Yeah. Qualifications? Ryan? Yes. Collateral engineer. Are you at work now? I am, yeah. Where stoic untrained. Oh, really? Yeah. In the cinema. In a cinema or it's local because I saw that. I knew you were in a cinema because the producer put it on the screen. I thought you might be at Merry Hill. I didn't realize that you travelled so far and wide. I thought you'd be local. I thought you might be down at Mary Hill. But anyway, it's got you a round of applause. Great work. Thank you. Can you slide in and see a movie before you go home or would. Would the boss find out? I'm going to upper this afternoon, so probably not. It's all go. Thank you, Ryan. Richard is in Tunbridge. Well, is Richard. Question or answer? Answer. About popcorn. James, carry on. You have to think, Cohn predates cinema. Yes, of course. Goes back to the traveling circuses and carnivals in America. Way before cinema existed. Yeah. And as he pointed out. Yeah, it's very profitable. Yes. In terms of what you can charge for it. But also it's very transportable when it's tiny. Yeah, when it's tiny. And also it doesn't go off. There's all sorts of reasons why it'd be a good thing to. So it kind of wakes its way into the notion of entertainment. And then I think it was during the Great Depression. During the great depression, it got picked up by cinemas for the other reasons, because it was so cheap and portable and perish. Imperishable compared to potato chips. Like, I think it was a cola. Yeah. Potatoes will go off. They're heavy to transport. You need oil to make it. All you need for popcorn is a heat. Sauce. That's right. That's it. Do you want to know something crazy? You're right. And you go, what are your qualifications? I used to date a girl who worked in a circus and she told me, I said, what are your qualifications? I have, I'm afraid, for this particular question. That's fine, it'll get you a round of applause. But I'm going to tell you something. I don't know whether you're aware of this or not, but they don't do them on site anymore. So the portability. Have you seen it? Because I'm in Leicester Square and every now and then, right, first thing in the morning, there'll be a lorry parked outside and they'll throw open the doors and there are these. It's almost. It's impossible to convey how enormous they are. These like tubes. They're like beanbags. They're bigger than beanbags. They're just giant. Huge. Yes. Like giant bean bags full of popcorn and they carry them into the cinema. It's a very odd. I mean, it must be the economic way of doing it, wasn't it? Because otherwise. And then they still put them in the machines to make it look like it's just being exactly that. Well, to heat them up as well a bit. So they're going to be a little bit warm them up. Yeah, to warm them up as well. But it is one of the strangest things, because all the laws of economics and physics, you would have thought, surely, you transport the kernels and heat them up on the site, but then they throw open the back of the lorry and there are these absolute mountainous tubes, plastic tubes full of popcorn. It's crazy. Anyway, late stage capitalism, James. It is late stage capitalism. It's got you a round of applause. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Richard. Dave is in Stamford, Lahope. Dave, question or answer? It's an answer for you, James. Carry on, mate. It's the mirage question. There's a twofold answer to this. So, firstly, mirages occur when you've got the heat on the road surface, which is then heating the air around it, which causes light to bend, so therefore it creates, like a mirror effect. So that will create the marge itself. Got it. In terms of a child seeing it, but not necessarily as an adult, I would think it's got something to do with the brain's capacity and sort of the natural survival instinct to look for danger and threats. So a child in a car is not looking around it for threats and stuff like that, whereas a driver or passenger likely is. So therefore they're distracted, especially a driver. Driver's levels of concentration are going to be way higher, aren't they? Yeah. It's all to do with cognitive distortions. I think you're right. Qualifications. I like that answer. Mental health support worker and former teacher. Well, that's more cv than qualifications. How does that. How is that? Where did you get the information that you've just shared? So, with the mental health work that I've been doing, I use cognitive distortions as a way into talking about things like anxiety and stress and all that sort of stuff. So, yeah, and I often. I draw the kind of distinction between the cognitive distortion and mirage as a way to get people to kind of come on board with it. Oh, brilliant. Perfect answer. Round of applause for Dave. Thank you, mate. Thank you very much. Lovely stuff. Important work you're doing. I wish there were more of you. 1257 is the time. Last one. Alan's in Faversham question or answer, Alan? Answer. Carry on. It's the dog question. Yes, the wording of the question was slightly wrong, because the dogs don't run away. They're not running away from something, they're running for something. Oh, you're good. There it is. They're running to somewhere. Yeah. And also, he kind of answered his own question, because he said, oh, you give them everything, but you don't leave the door open. Yeah. So the one thing you haven't given them is the freedom to wander off whenever they want to. That's exactly. But would they wander back if you did give them that freedom? Not necessarily. Well, their intention would be to wander back, provided you didn't get lost. No, they would get qualifications. I run the doggy daycare service. Beautifully done. How's business? It's very good, actually. Very glad to hear. Especially since people do hybrid working. They're all getting dogs, of course. Have a round of applause. Lovely. Thank you. No, thank you. It was a good one, that. Did we miss anything off mirages? Just the super injunctions, but then we're not allowed to talk about them. Boom. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on Globe. You can. Oh, we need a winner. It's quite tricky this week, dogs. I'm gonna give it to Joe. No. What was the fellow fixing the escalators? The. The second one. The one. The one that's on his way to Aberwist with Ryan in Wolverhampton. I'm going to give it to Ryan in Wolverhampton because his accent makes me homesick. Is that bad? Is that bad? I think that's reasonable, Ryan. Congratulations, mate. You're getting a brand new mister board game making its way to Wolverhampton at the first opportunity. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you can also rewind live radio. All LBC shows are there, as well as the world's biggest podcast. Lovely. Full disclosure this week with Wendell Pearson, a really, really lovely one, coming out on Friday with Rob Rinder. So rewind live radio on global player download for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com dot. I'll see you later if you're coming to the o two this evening for the state of London debate. Otherwise, Tom Sawbrick will be with you at four and Sheila Fogarty is with you now.