Why do Elephants have big ears?- 16 Oct 15

James O'Brien Call Zero 345-606-0973 Tweet at LBC Text 84850 Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC Four minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us once again. You are, of course, listening to LBC. I'll take a moment to explain how it works, if that's alright with you. What we do every Thursday from twelve, news permitting, is venture into the unknown. We address some of the issues that you won't find addressed anywhere else. We refresh some of the parts that you won't find, well, that other radio programs simply can't reach. And we do it really in the most beautifully interactive of ways. You have a problem, a question in your head, a question that you know must have an answer. An answer that you possibly could find if you were poised to navigate your way around Google or search engines. But you don't want to do that because you want a human touch. That's what it is. Knowledge with a human touch. It sounds a bit pretentious, but I'm sticking by it because I really do mean it. And if I really do mean it, then it can't be pretentious, can it? Pretentious means that I'm pretending to be something that's not sincere and true. This is absolutely a passion of mine. Talking about education, of course, a lot on the program recently, and this is a sort of reminder, isn't it, of knowledge, the value of proper knowledge. Rather than having everything at your fingertips on the end of a smartphone, you actually have something filed away because of a childhood enthusiasm, or because of a book that you read, or because of the subject you studied at university, or even just because of the program you watched on telly last week. Someone else asks a question to which you know the answer. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have such a question. And of course, the number remains the same if you have an answer to a question that you hear. So we're looking for the withers and the whences and the wherefores. We're looking for, really anything you like that demand satisfaction. If you want to get a flavor of the sort of questions that we deal with, there's a lovely archive over at LBC Dot co dot UK, or perhaps also. Or instead, you can download some of the podcasts, which are free. You can get them from the website LBC dot co dot UK comma, or you can get them from iTunes. There's a fair old bunch of them there now, isn't there? I just had a lovely tweet saying, I love mystery hour so much I've started going back over old episodes and listening to them during the week. Thank you for that, Johnny, but I'm interested really, in this week's mystery hour and the question you have that needs an answer. Shall we start with Alan in Tunbridge Wells? Are we ready to go? I think we are. Alan, question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please. Talking of the withers, why is it? It's a question posed by my twelve year old last night who's at school today. She wants to know why, when you sit in the bath for too long or half hour or whatever, do your fingers and toes go wrinkly but not other parts of your body? Ah. Oh. I thought you were leading me towards the osmosis moment there. But you. But you're not, are you? No, because it's. Why. Why only my fingers and my toes and why not the rest of my body? Yes, go wrinkly in the bath. Other extremities. Yes, but that's not what your daughter asked you about, is it? She was only interested in fingers and toes. It's the thickness of the. It's the thickness of this. It can't be the thickness of the skin, otherwise your bum would be. Your bum would be like a prune, wouldn't it? Exactly. I can only think. But it's because of blood, the blood being of the extremities. But I don't know that. Fingertips and toes. I've got a lot more sensitive, perhaps. No, I don't know why I'm trying to answer it. I haven't got a clue. We'll get you an answer. Why doesn't all of you go wrinkly? Why just the excess. I'm a bit troubled by the way you're saying the word extremities. I don't want you to take that personally, but there's a bit. There's a bit too much relish in your voice. I mean, if, for instance, you disappeared under the water, would your ears turn wrinkly? Because that's what I mean by extremities. Because if you follow what I mean. Yeah. I think you should stop digging now. Yes, yes. Why do our fingers and toes go wrinkly in the bath? Well, no other parts of our bodies generally do. I was going to reach for thickness of skin until I remembered, of course, that my buttocks probably have thicker skin than any other part of my body and my buttocks generally don't go wrinkly when I'm in the bath. If my buttocks did go wrinkly when I was in the bath, they really would look like a giant white pink prune. And there's an image that you'll never be able to unsee. John's in slough. Question or answer, John. Question, please, James. Yes. When someone has a blood transfusion, you're effectively putting what the body considers to be alien DNA into it. The DNA is going to be different to that of the body you're putting blood into? Yeah, of course. So what happens to the DNA coding that you're putting into that person's bloodstream? Does it become absorbed by the rest of it or does it just maintain its original DNA? Does that make sense? I think it does. It's as if. So if you took a pint of blood off me because you were poorly, you'd have, theoretically, a pint of my DNA inside you. Yeah, exactly. Or if someone had a massive blood transfusion, whereby they had a serious injury on operation, they needed almost all their blood replaced, that's not going to be the same as the DNA in the rest of their body. Weirdly, I don't know whether we've done this before, but I've got filed away somewhere inside my brain. The idea that red blood cells don't contain any DNA, you know more than I do, then I could be wrong. Mate, you're more than welcome to call B's on me, but white blood cells do and it's not. It's never going to be a big enough proportion to cause any problems, if you see what I mean. No, I don't think it would cause a problem, but it's just DNA is unique to everyone that no two people apart from identical twins have the same DNA. So if you then took a sample of someone's blood off, they had a transfusion, whose DNA would it be? Yeah, that's the point about quantity, I think. Well, I'll leave it up there, see if we've got a haematologist listening or something like that. Definitely the absence of DNA. I don't think red blood cells have got nucleuses in the normal sense either, but that's part of the answer. And I think the other part of the answer is a bit homeopathic, if you follow me in that there's so. I mean, however much blood you receive in a transfusion, it's. It's never going to be enough to alter the overall. That's not sounding very persuasive, John, is it? Mate, don't be shy. Tell me the truth. I have no idea. But, yeah. No, mate. Yeah. Let's find out. So, when you. When you have blood transfusion, what happens to the DNA in the donor blood? Zero. 345-606-0973 when you're in the bath, why is it only your fingers and toes that go, my fingers are still a bit wrinkly. Why is it only your fingers and toes that go wrinkly? Why doesn't the rest of you. And don't. Don't know. Just. Gentlemen, don't go there. All right? David's in Chiswick. David, question or answer? Good morning. It's a question. Please carry on. I've noticed I've got loads and loads of spiders webs developing in my garden. There's one in particular. It's about 7ft off the ground. It spans something like 5ft. And I can't figure out how the spider has built that initial span from which to hang the web. It's just incredible. And I want to know how they do it. They swing. Well, they can't swing, or this particular location. It's impossible. It must be possible. Well, what's above it? That's great. The sky? Nothing. There must be something above it. No, there's nothing above it. There's a wooden frame on one side and it goes from there to a wooden frame on the other side, and in order to crop, to swing, I can't see how it could possibly swing across. It's about 5ft. Yeah, but they can. Look how big the web is. They can spin this stuff at a rate of knots. So what you do, you go to the top of the wooden frame on one side and you put your anchor there, and then you wait for the wind to start blowing and it blows you over to the other side. Then you start spinning your web. I'm not convinced. Nor am I, mate. Nor am I. But I thought there was a degree of fluency in that answer that might have actually bamboozled you just for a moment. I'm pretty sure I've been puzzling about this for ages. What else could it be? Once you've eliminated the impossible, whatever you're left with, however improbable, must be the truth. Well, in theory, you're right. In practice. I don't believe it. All right, then. No, someone has really got to know. Whereabouts in Chiswick are you? Just off the high road. Just off the high road. See, we're nearer the river. We've got some enormous specimens. This, this. There are some fantastic ones around. I look at them all the time. And they astonish me with the width of the initial line. I mean, they are absolutely fascinating. But I do honestly think that the question has already been answered by my brilliance. Well, your brilliance, to which I bowed down. You're very kind and very generous. It hasn't impressed me on this. And very honest as well. Just in time. 1213 is the time. So what have we got? Spiders webs, baths, Lee's and Gerard's cross. Lee, question or answer? There's a question, James. Yes. It's about animals. It's all going a bit natural history at the moment. Last week's mystery. I had a lot of natural history related questions as well. This week. We've already got spiders webs and whatever your animal question is. My animal question for you, James, is why do african elephants have bigger ears than asian elephants? Do you know, there should have been a gag there, shouldn't there? I mean, for crying out loud, I've been doing this job so long, I've got Jones, the engineer on ten on standby. The two of us, we didn't come up with a single punchline. There must be. Why do african elephants have bigger ears than asian elephants? There's nothing there. I've got nothing. I've got. No. I'm going home. I'm sorry if I can't get that. That's an open goal. I'll find out for you. Why do african. African elephants have bigger ears than asian elephants? It'll be something to do with evolution, but I can't think of what the evolutionary answer might be. Why do you want to know, Lee? What's the. Oh, just interested. I'm sure I could find it on the Internet, but. No, don't. Don't do that. That's not what we're here for. We can all do that. We're trying to celebrate human knowledge. Zero. 345-606-0973 is a number to call. So why do your fingertips and toe tips wrinkle when you are in the bath but no other part of your body? Why? How do spiders spin enormous webs between two horizontal positions with nothing apparently above them? And why do african elephants have. Which way round is it, Jones? Why do african elephants have bigger ears than asian elephants? Take any of those. Actually, if you can answer any of them, get in touch with me now in all the usual ways. Zero. 345-606-0973 I've remembered the answer to the wrinkly fingertips, but I can't. Can I do it now or is it too late? And what are the rules I can't remember. Hang on. I make up the rules. I'll decide during the travel news. I'm Joanne Webb in the LBC travel center on the north circular road. It is very slow in both directions to the knees interchange. That's because of the ongoing road works which started this week. Eastbound queues back to the Harrow road underpass and westbound back to Staples Corner in Winchmore Hill. Green lanes is closed. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. Why do we get wrinkly? Has anyone rung in with that? Because otherwise I'm going to nick the round of applause. Why do we get wrinkly? Fingers and toes in the bath. What happens to DNA in the donor blood and the blood transfusion. How has David got such an enormous spider's web in his garden when he can't see any way of the spider? There's no way the spider could have come from above. I've answered that question, but he very rudely refused to accept my answer. How foolish he will feel when I am proved correct. And why do african elephants have bigger ears than asian elephants? We'll crack on with those in a moment and take more questions as well. Let's go to Sam in Camberwell first. Sam, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Yeah, I'm a rugby fan. I would like to know, why is the score over the line in rugby known as a try? Where does the name try come from? I know this, actually, and it's very topical, of course, with the Rugby World cup being underway at the moment. Are you familiar with the legend of Web Ellis? No. He is the chap who was playing at a football, playing a game of association football with the round ball at a public school in Warwickshire called rugby school. Have you heard of rugby school? Yep. That's obviously where the game was invented, because one day, while playing a game of normal football, Web Ellis picked up the. I can't remember his christian name. What was his christian name? Was it Darren? William? Was it William Webber? Anyway, Webb Ellis picked up the ball and ran down the pitch and plonked the ball over the goal line and he turned to the teacher at rugby school, whose name eludes me, but it was around about the time of Thomas Arnold, and said something like, have I scored, sir? And the teacher said, no, but you can have a try. So because he'd carried the ball over the line, he was allowed to have a try at shooting a goal, which now, of course, we'd call the conversion. So by carrying the ball over the line, in the very origins, the very earliest origins of rugby, it earned you the right to have a try at kicking a goal. Wow. That's fantastic. I've known that for years, mate, since prep school. And do you know what this is? This is the sound of success. Thank you. No, thank you. As a general rule, the more confident I am about an answer, the more likely I am to get turned over subsequently. So we'll see whether or not my smugness and arrogance on the. On that one will actually end up coming back to bite me on the unwrinkled backside. Professor Hal is here. Hello, James. Hello, Professor hall. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. What question would you like to answer? Well, there's so many. What are. After a barren period of science, questions on mystery are three come at once. It's gone biology bonkers. It has. So I just. I'm just spoiled for choice. But I think, on balance, I'm going to go for the blood cells. Cool. Yes. What happens to the donor DNA in a blood transfusion? Okay, well, if I can do as I always do, which is say that your answer was correct. Thank you. Red blood cells do indeed not have a nucleus, and that's to give them more space for carriage of oxygen. And that means they can't reproduce themselves. That's why they're made in the bone marrow. So they last about 120 days and they're interesting biconcave disks to give them more surface area. Now, the thing about rejection, which I think is what the original caller was alluding to, that tends to be caused by proteins on the outside of an organ or a cell, not the DNA on the inside. So it's a bit of a red herring. Okay. So you would. You'd be able to find a little bit of donor DNA in there for a 120 day period, after which everything would have sort of gone through the system and changed. Yes, but not from the red blood cells, from the white blood cells. Yes, of course. Because there is no DNA in the red blood cells. Yeah. And interesting, red blood cells, when they break down, they. In a bruise, they're broken down. You know, bruises. When red blood cells leak out into tissue, it goes from red to green, brown and so forth. So decaying tissue tends to go to green, which is bilirubin and biliverdin, which. Yeah. So there we are. Superb play. Do you know why african elephants have big ears? No, I'd rather tell you about wrinkled fingers, but I'm not going to nick that from someone else. No, you can't. There's already complaints that you've nicked it from someone else, actually. So you must have told Michael that you were capable of answering that question as well. I've got a joke. I've got a joke here. I've got a joke. You're being a rubbish straight man. Shall we try again? Okay, go on. Do you know why african elephants have big ears? So they can. Oh no. So they can flap them and lose the temperature quicker. What? This is. I said you're the straight man. Oh, sorry. No, it was a straight answer. Straight men don't give straight answers. Straight men say, I don't know, James, why do african elephants have bit? Should we try third time lucky? Professor Howe, Mister O'Brien, why do african elephants have big ears? I don't know, James. Why do african elephants have bigger. Isn't indian elephants. No, no, no. The indian elephants bits just spoilt the whole joke. Sorry. Right, for the final time. I say, I say, I say. Why do african elephants have big ears? I don't know, James, why do african elephants have big ears? Because Noddy wouldn't pay the ransomware. Do you know, I thought Jones would have had a sound effect. Ready for that one. Like a badoom tish or a round of applause. Or even a hallelujah. Give Professor Hal his round of applause. Thank you very much. That's about his million. 24 minutes after twelve is the time we can cross off the DNA question. But we still want to know about wrinkly fingers. Spiders webs, elephants ears. Oh, and I've done the rugby one as well. Although we'll see. Richard's in Battersea. Richard. Question or answer? Hello? Hello? Hello? Can you hear me? No. Who is it? It's Richard. Where are you? I'm in London. In London? Yeah, south west London. And how can I be of assistance? I know why we have wrinkly fingers. Pardon? I know why we have wrinkly fingers underwater. You're speaking to the AA. No, pardon? Why do we have wrinkly fingers underwater? Richard, it's an evolutionary thing so we can have more grip underwater. I think you're right. And also someone told me babies can grip their parents hair in water. Well, all manner of areas where you'd want to have grip. So you've got your wet fingers. It increases your power of grip. What are your qualifications? None. Well, no. How do you know? I thought Professor Allen. I know. I don't mean what are your qualifications in general? Like bag of gymnastics award, four or ten cses. I mean, how do you know this little bit of. This nugget of information. I just heard it a long time ago. It's just something I've always known. Are you. Mate, come here a minute. Are you quite new to mystery hour? Pretty. Pretty much, yeah. Fair enough. And then that's why I'm not going to tell you off, because, really, there are a few little conventions that we like to observe in order to get the full round of applause. Applause you have to provide. You have to provide evidence that your answer is correct. Now, I believe your answer is correct, but you can't provide evidence that it's correct by saying, oh, it's just something I heard a few years ago. I needed to grip something in the sea once on holiday. He's very good, actually. Go on, give him a round of applause. Hello. Dylan's in Islington. Dylan, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. I wondered if it was theoretically possible to generate electricity using electric eels, as in generated, but to use it. To use it, yeah. So I guess, you know, could a family theoretically, you know, power their home with a pond of electric heels in the back garden? Could you just run a teasmade off a single one? Yeah. Where does it come from? How do they generate electricity? Do you know? No idea. That's probably part of the answer. We'll be involved in part of the beginning. I like that question. Are you. Are you particularly peeved about your electricity bills at the moment? Dylan, what's inspired this inquiry? Well, I was watching a tv show the other day about sort of the world's weirdest mysteries and eels featured and just got my brain. Can you in any way harness the electricity produced by an electric eel? If you know the answer to that, give me a call now on zero 345-606-0973 why do african elephants have bigger ears than asian elephants? Zero. 345-606-0973 how can spider webs get so enormous? Zero. 345-606-0973 and we've done bath time. Wrinkles. It's a very important r in the pronunciation lexicon. Wrinkles. Nuran is in Manor park. Question or answer? Nuran. Question, please, James. Yes. In English, where we call our grandmothers maternal grandmothers nan, or shorter nan. In Bengali, we call our maternal grandmothers nanny. Yeah. And our grandfathers Nana. So I just wanted to know where these similarities came from, why they're so similar to two different languages. Well, we probably got it off you or you got it off us. I don't know. Tell me, what else can there be? It's not just the maternal grandmother, that's nanny. All grandma's a nanny? Well, actually, yeah, in English, but in Bengali, our maternal grandmothers. We say nanny. Nanny. Our paternal grandmothers would say daddy. Daddy. Daddy. Yeah, it was Nana a minute ago. No, that's. That's. The maternal grandfather. Is Nana the paternal grandfather? And who's. Where does Nanu come into this? The nanny is the maternal grandmother. Nanny. Nana. Nanu. Nanu. Nanu. Nan. Was that more community? Yes. Give me a round of applause. What? What? Hang on, I've lost the question again. So the question is we say nan in English. Nanny. And in Bengali we say nanny. We say nanny as well. You say nanny as well? Yeah, we say nanny. Think about nanny. Nanny goat. Nanny. Nanny. Nanny. Nanny. Right, okay. But then how would that go all the way over to Bangladesh? Well, I don't know. How come we got curry here? It's a fairly well trodden root, isn't it? I think we need a definitive on that. You want to know what came first, the bengali nanny or the english nanny. That's correct. Or the brazilian nanny. Is he brazilian, nanny? I don't know. Which other language they say nanny. I don't know. Portuguese. The footballer is Portuguese. So you. Let's just leave. Let's leave the portuguese footballer out of this. Things are complicated enough already. So we went. So is that. Is there any link between the bengali nanny and the english nanny? Nani or Nan? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know, mate. Let's see. Let's see what people say. It's 12:30 Eleanor Noakes is here with the headlines. The policing minister says a sharp increase in sexual efficacy. 1234. Thanks, Tony. Dear James, I'm a big fan, but I think we need to have a chat about some of your jokes on mystery out today when you have a free moment, mate. That's why. I see. That's the kind of listeners I've got. Put a loving arm around my shoulder and turn. James. Maybe, maybe, maybe lay off the gags. Let's get back to mystery hour. We still need answers to these because it's got a very natural history flavor today, hasn't it? Spiders webs, elephants ears and electric eels. If you can answer any of those, I'll give you the money myself. And if you've got a question, the number remains the same. Chris is in Hull. Chris, question or answer? Oh, good afternoon, James. You're very welcome. A little bit nervous. Don't be nervous. My dad, one of my dad's first jobs was on the whole Daily Mail. Chris, we're practically family. All right? Okay. It's not motoring and it's not national natural history. Okay with that? When you hear a competition on the tv, yeah. They say you can win 50,000 pounds in cash. Can you insist that they pay you in cash as opposed to a check? Yes. What if. Chris, mate, I'm going to turn off now so no one else can hear. All right, what have you won? I haven't won anything. I'm just wondering if I. If I did enter competition and I said to him, I want 50,000 pounds in cash, because that's what you said. Was my briefcase full of 50 pound notes? Yeah. You could do that. Yeah. But I imagine the practicalities of walking into the bank. How is this happening? They would say, well, where does that come from? Is this a question or a routine? It's a question. I just want. I'm just curious. Well, you've seen it on the telly, you've seen, you've seen big chunks of cash on the telly, on video game shows. Yeah, but I imagine that they wouldn't give you the cash. Why wouldn't they give you the cash? Why don't they just say you can win 50,000 pounds? After all, 50,000 pounds is 50,000 pounds. It's not a holiday or a car. No, you can say that again. What? Do you see where I'm coming from with that one? Honestly, you probably don't. Absolutely no clue whatsoever. So why do they say cash, then? Because it is cash as opposed to, you know, credit. Yeah, but cash is ready. Money is actual bank notes, which means that if you really wanted to be pedantic about it, I'm sure that they would give you the 50,000 pounds in cash if you stay. And I sense, because you probably would labour the point slightly and you would say, I don't want your check, I don't want your bank transfer, I want a 50,000 pound briefcase and I'll return the briefcase when I've got it all home and stashed it under the bed. I'm 99. Who's going to be able to answer that question? I don't know. There might be someone in the industry, in the television industry. And you'll trust them to know the answer with reference to every single competition offering a cash prize in the history of the world? Well, no, I just wonder why they do it. Someone must have a reason why they say cash rather than just 50,000 pounds so that you know you're not. If you're entering a competition to win 50,000 pounds on the back of a cornflakes packet. They put cash there so that you know you're not going to win 50,000 pounds worth of cornflakes. Yeah, but why are you laughing? Because 50,000 pounds is, to me, is 50,000 pounds. Yeah, but I'm going to pay you in cornflakes. That's why it says cash. Why are you laughing? Because it's a 50,000. I think it's a prospect of winning 50,000 pounds worth of cornflakes. Well, you know, we all have to dream, but that. That's got to be the only answer, hasn't it? That's why it says cash, because the competitions are usually provided or sponsored by somebody else, as in a, you know, a manufacturer or a product. So you enter a competition on the back of a tube of Pringles to win 50,000 pounds. If it doesn't say cash, they could then give you 50. That's why it'd be legal as well. If it doesn't actually say cash on it, then you win, you've got your winning ticket, you ring them up and they say, yeah, we'll be delivering several tons of Pringles to your house in hull next weekend. Congratulations on your 50,000 pound prize. If you can find a buyer for each individual tube, you'll have 50,000 pounds cash. Are you still. Are you still with. Oh, thank God for that. I'm just thinking of the thought of making a choice between Pringles or corn flakes. Well, I'd go for Pringles every time. They're very moorish. Okay, James. Thank you, Christopher, where's my round of applause? Thank you. Jimmy's on the Isle of Dogs. Jimmy, do you want Pringles or cornflakes? I'll have Pringles, James. Yeah, very wise man. Now, what's your question? Yeah, listen, addiction to this show, mate. Let him on with a question. Bless you. Why? I'd like to know, James, why is a ship's figurehead called an Aunt Sally? I didn't know it was. Yeah, the woman on the front of it, the kind of. Well, the figurehead, like you said, is. It's called an Aunt Sally. On the front of the ship, it's called an Aunt Sally. And I just wondered why there's an aunt Sally, nothing else. I. Because I'm sure it's a. There's a phrase, isn't there? I just thinking of Eunice Stubbs in worsel gummidge. She was Aunt Sally, wasn't she? That's right. She was the figurehead of the ship. She used to come to life. I don't. You're absolutely right, Flip. That's why it's there fold away in this weird brain of mine, isn't it? That's why words will come as just popped into my head. She did come to life. I think it might be any old model of a woman's head, but. But it is certainly applied to. Why aren't Sally. That's what you want to know. Why not, Uncle Bob? Why not? Well, why not, indeed? Uncle. But. Well, we can't have Uncle Bob. Yeah, because he's already got his own saying. That's Bob's your uncle. That's right. Yeah. He can't be greedy, Uncle Bob. He's got to share out the love. Aunt Sally gets a bit. We'll find out for you. Why. Why is a model of a woman's head often seen on a ship's figurehead called an aunt Sally? Zero. 345-606-0973 is there any way of harnessing the electricity generated by electric eels? Zero. 345-606-0973 why do african elephants have bigger ears than indian elephants? And how do spiders spin enormous webs without apparently having anything above them? Tracy's in Notting Hill. Tracy, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Oh, good. Now, correctly. They're not really indian. They're called asian elephants. I said asian. I thought you said indian. I said both. I was trying to keep all the people happy all the time. All right, well, why not? Exactly. Someone has to. Well, the thing is that mostly the asian elephants are in the shade under trees, and there's more trees there. The african elephants have lots of savannah and lots of open areas where they've got to be. Now, what they do, an elephant keeps themselves cool by wafting their ears. Wafting like a fan. But because there's a great sort of cobweb of veins run through the ears, and they do that to cool their veins, and therefore it keeps the body circulates the blood and keeps them cool. So, heat dissipation, isn't it? Yeah. What are your qualifications, Tracy? I spent a lot of time in Africa and in India, and I worked at London Zoo as a volunteer for 25 years until I left last year. No, that's more than you've already qualified. Have you seen the story about London Zoo today in the newspapers? Oh, no, I haven't. Oh, it's nice, but there's been a love triangle at London Zoo. That was the one when. When they went one belted the other at a party, was that. Yeah, there was a meerkat expert and. And, oh, what was the other garden? Well, I think the verdict must. The verdict must have dropped yesterday. Wait there a sec. Tracy, can you just entertain the troops? I'm just going to go through my newspaper cuttings because this is the sort of thing I usually pull out in the morning. I'll be surprised if I didn't put. So can you just tell them a nice anecdote about your african journeys? Oh, yes. Well, I used to work. I used to work as a tour manager and take people on safaris, so I got all over the place. And, of course, if an elephant has tremendous smelling power, you know, it doesn't see all that well, but it can judge distance and sound. So if you're being charged by an elephant, you could just turn your engine off and stay as still as you can. There you go. Important advice for us all. I found it. I had to google it instead of. Right. Here you go. A London zoo meerkat handler wept in court today as she was spared jail for glassing her monkey expert love rival in a fight over a llama keeper. Yeah, it was in the paper. It was in one of the papers. I think it was evening Standard at one time. Then there was another big. I don't think you're focusing on the most interesting elements of this story. I don't care what newspapers it's been in. There's a story in the newspaper about a meerkat handler glassing a monkey expert love rival in a fight over a llama keeper. Yeah, but they were at a party. They were. And obviously it's not funny in terms of the violence, but in terms of the love triangle at London Zoo, where you worked as a volunteer for 25 years, it certainly stopped me in my tracks, that headline. Round of applause for Tracy. There's another line involved in a tragedy today, or it's an uncomfortable story with a funny line at the end of it about a dolphin trainer, but I think we've had enough for one day. Robert's in Southend. Robert, question or answer? I've got an answer, James, to the Spider web. Yes. The gentleman would have been referring to all spiders in this particular case, it would have been garden spiders. And what they do is they. They will let a little bit of thread out of their abdomen and they'll place some glue on the end of that thread. Yeah. And they'll let the breeze take that gossamer thread. Yeah. And it will then attach to something that's, you know, their desired direction. They sit down, downwind, and then once they've got that single thread across, they can call across that and then they can start building their web. And that's how they do it. And if you go out in the mornings when they first start building, you will actually see them flapping around in the wind, looking to actually attach them. And that's exactly how it's done. And that's the correct answer, which is kind of the answer I gave. No, you said that they swing down. I certainly never used the word swang well, or swing. They swing. Ah. So it's just the thread. They stay put and the thread goes flying. They don't go anywhere. You're quite right. I did get it wrong. And you did get it right. What are your qualifications? I like spiders. I study spiders. That's one of the coolest answers. I study spider. And do you know what, Robert? I sensed that just in the. In the subtext of what you said, I sensed. I study spiders, pal. Have you got a problem with that? And the answer is no, I don't. You got around. In fact, I talked over your round of applause. Give him another round of applause. What's your favorite, favourite spider? I like garden spiders, actually. I think they're. They're highly intelligent and they're really robust. They manage to withstand all sorts of. You know, they are at the bottom of the food chain, but they are just absolute survivors and they're just perfect. Perfect. You really do like spiders, don't you, Robert? Indeed. I don't blame you. I do now. It's 1245. I'm Joanne Webb in the LBC. It's 1249. You are listening to mystery on LBC, particularly good one this week. Very little to do with me. Everything to do with you. But we need some answers to these questions. Why is a figure of a carving of a woman's head often seen on figureheads on ships called an aunt Sally? What came first? Nanny in Bengali or Nan nanny in England in English. Zero. 345-606-0973 can you harness the electricity generated by an electric eel? I think that's all we've got left. So we've got room for a couple more. Martin's in epping. Martin, question or answer? It's a question, James. Yes. My wife is spanish and I was talking to her about english condiments for beef. We've got horseradish. I don't know why that made me laugh. Sorry. Been married a while, have you, Martin? Yes. Go on with your condiment conversation. Different flavors. Yes. That keeps us fresh gone. So you've got apple ones. Apple for pork? Yeah. Orange for duck? Yeah. Mint for lamb. You're a saucy fella, aren't you, Martin? We have exciting times. Cranberry for turkey, horseradish for beef. But what about chicken bread? Bread sauce? Yeah. Just for chicken. Well, you. Some people have it with turkey as well, but I think it only really works with white poultry. Is there no other sauce? I mean, that's a bit. All the others are kind of lively and cracking, mate. I can't give you the answer. I can't. Can't. Blame me if you don't like it. You can't shoot the messenger. Bread sauce goes with chicken very nicely, but you can't buy that in a jar in Tesco's or wherever. No. You'd have to make all the others. So, you know. Well, I don't know. Is it still a condiment if you've had to cook it yourself? In which case the answer is no. I like a bit of french mustard on my chicken, but it's. No means chicken exclusive. We're seeing other sauces. What do you mean? Your question. You can't now start finding fault with the question itself just because you don't like the answer. But, you know. I want a jar of something to go with chicken. Yeah, well, get peri. Peri sauce, then. Or jerk. Jerk sauce. No, that's the way you cook it, isn't it? More than a. Yeah. Yeah. Hmm. The more you think about it, the more, you know, I thought that you might have the. You might be the source of the answer. It was worth it anyway. Professor Martin Smith, professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Question or answer, Martin? I think I can manage an answer, James. Bring it on. It was to the electric eel question. Yeah. You could harness the electricity. You could shut the front door. Sorry. No, carry on. Okay. It would be difficult because eels produce hundreds of pulses a second, very short pulses, and they're very high voltage. Hundreds of volts. And harnessing that would be pretty tricky and not really cost effective either. No. You can convert it to the sort of 240 volts ac, but the loss of power in conversion would be pretty grim and you wouldn't get. They don't produce much power, but. So you could probably. I wonder if anybody ever has you just sort of hook it up to a light bulb or something like that. You could, but I suspect you might need to sort of frighten the eel for an hour to get half a minute of bulb. Light bulb. Are you. Are you still. Are you still at the University of Middlesex? I am. Well, if you. I mean, you should do this with all the new students. What a great way to get them involved in robotics. You could hook up a robot to an electric eel. Well, of course, if they do badly in their exams, then they get electric shots. Of course. I approve of that. I approve of that. Another round of applause. Oh, no, I've just had a plumbing. Well, I was about to pretend I'd had a brainwave, but what I really mean is I've just read a bunch of texts coming in about sauce that goes with chicken. Can you think of one? You're a professor. I like bread sauce. I'm addicted to bread sauce for chicken. Yeah, but he wasn't having that. You could tell he wanted something you could buy in a jar. Goes. And there is something. Is it unique to chicken that I thought, we'll see. Sean's in bishop store for sure. Question or answer? Well, it's a bit both actually. Why does well got to. Why do kidderminster Harriers Charles the most for pies? But that's by the by. Anyway. By the by at all. That's the most important question that's ever been asked on Mister. Kidding. Mister Harris are in the news. Kid and Mister Harris are indeed in the news today. It's a. It's a welcome distraction from our, our position at the bottom of the Vanorama National League and the appalling last minute equaliser that we conceded on Tuesday night. But actually you're right. Kidderminster pies are in the news today because they charge four pounds 50 pence for a pie, which makes it the most expensive pie in the whole of the football league. And the answer is really quite simple, Sean. Would you like to hear it? My question is, why is a piece of turf called a sod? How did that happen? I thought we were talking about pies. Well, that was just to get you in. And yes, my girlfriend is still banned from calling me between twelve and one. I love you very well. Okay, I'm going in on the pie. All right. Just sanity. Come here quick. Let me grip you. I'm going to lick my fingers, make them more grippy and I'm going to grab that sanity. The reason why I could have means that Harriers pie is so expensive is because they weigh about a pound. They are. You've got. It's a shepherd's pie, the kid of Mister Harriers pie. And you have a heck of a lot of it. It's really that simple. And I can even give you a little bit of extra information. Brian Murdoch is the name of the fellow that makes them Murdoch's. Murdoch does the catering at Agborough, which is the name of the ground. And if you ever find yourself there, don't just have a pie for four pounds 50 pence, have yourself a cup of the famous Agborough soup. This is going to be the sweetest round of applause I have ever tasted. Do you think Sean's all right? Sean, are you still there, mate? I'm still here. But what is piece of turf called a sod? Are you sure he's all right? Is he on a bang on the head or something? Sean, how many fingers am I holding up? How many fingers am I holding? Can you not just the one? I don't know. What? Claire, Islington, quick. Hello. I think you could have cranberry sauce with turkey or cranberry sauce with chicken. No, no, it's really just for the turkey. Well, I don't know. I've served it for people with chicken as well and they liked it. What sort of a blasphemer are you? It's not specific. I mean, you. Beef. I mean, theoretically, you could serve it with anything. You could serve anything with anything. But there's no sort of historical relationship, is there, between chicken and cranberry? Cranberries for Christmas, cranberries for the turkey. Historical relationship. What about this, Claire, try this on for size. Red currant. Yeah, red currant. Be nice as well. That goes with chicken. Yeah. Red currant would go with chicken. Cranberry would go with chicken. I've served it to people with chicken and they've loved it. Am I going to give her a round of applause? Yeah, go on. Completely. No, it's horribly undeserved. Horribly undeserved. But, hey, what can you do? It's 1257. Have we done everywhere? We haven't done the aunt Sally or the nanny. Can we quickly do the aunt Sally or the nanny? Why is a carved woman's head. Apparently there might be a pub game involved. We may have gotten bit misled with the figurehead, but I need someone to call in and answer that. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. And what came first? The english nanny or the bengali nanny? Or maybe they just sort of evolved independently of each other. From the way babies talk, you know. Grandma, nanny, daddy, mummy. Simon's in Orpington. Question or answer, Simon. Question. James. I know it's a bit late. Well, crikey, it is. This will be a miracle. Go on. My son's a honey fan and he wants to know where all the honeybees go in the winter because there aren't any flowers. So how do they make it and where do they go and what happens? They hibernate. Do they? Yeah. Because my parents had a bees nest in their lawn and they've gone. They hibernate. Bees hibernate. Okay, I'm good. I was going to google it, get that, but I didn't. And stuffing with chicken. Pardon? Stuffing with chicken. Yeah. It's not a sauce. It's not a condiment, is it? He was looking. He was looking for a condiment. It's getting very confusing. Home straight's been a little surreal. Andrews and Ilford. Question or answer, Andrew? It's an answer. Yes. Why is a piece of turf called a odd? What? Wasn't that one of the questions? The secondary question of the bloke? I thought we were all pretending that had never happened. Oh, never mind. No, I want to know the answer now. You've piqued my interest more than he did. What is it? It's from the middle germanic soda. And that would mean a clump of earth. And that was a turf or a clot of earth. Yeah. Qualifications? Qualifications. A fascination with Susie Dent. I just happened to, you know, I just happen to wonder, well, why is it called a sod? And I sort of looked up in a book of etymology about a few years ago. That's a beautiful answer. And indeed, Susie Dent is a beautiful woman. That's it for today. Can Eileen do it in 3 seconds? We keep Sheila waiting or not? Yeah, go on, Aunt Sally. Yeah. Was from the fairground. It was sorting out with the figurehead on board, Rosal Gummidge. There you go. Okay. Round of applause for Eileen while I nately introduce the next program here on LBC. We'll be doing it again tomorrow from ten. I'm James O'Brien. Here's Sheila Fogarty. You'll never get any complaints from me about etymology. Going over by 10 seconds, James. Thanks very much indeed. Now then, a british woman who followed her husband to Syria, where he was fighting with.