Why is the moon level with my plane? - 5 Feb 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's for four minutes after twelve. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour commences. What is mystery hour? Well, it's fairly self explanatory. It does exactly what it says on the tin, but also quite a few things that you may be taken by surprise by, or even rather tickled. It's a sort of an adventure into the unknown. You've probably got a question in the back of your mind somewhere, or even the front of your mind, even the tip of your tongue, that you know has an answer, but you just haven't been able to find out what it is and you really want to. Well, today you can call zero 345-606-0973 now with your who, your why, your where, your when, your whither, your what or your wherefore. And by 01:00 you should have got an answer, because anyone listening who knows the answer has to ring in and give it like the sort of radio equivalent, if you will, of those newspaper columns where readers will send in their query and other readers will send in their answers, and then maybe by Christmas, you'll actually have achieved a success. Well, here we'll achieve it by 01:00. And if you don't want to join in, don't. Seriously, I sometimes wish I could put my feet up and just enjoy this. If you do just put your feet up and enjoy it, then you will know more by 01:00 than you do now. I say every week, that guarantee has never been broken, ever. And the caveat to that guarantee is this. It might not be knowledge you're particularly grateful for or ever find useful again, but you will know more by 01:00 than you do now. If you hear me say the phone number, then it means I've got a phone line or two free. It's a crazy busy hour, this, by far the busiest hour of the week, but it still gets turned over. And that's for two reasons. One is some people ring in with questions that we've answered recently, can't take those calls. And the other is some people ring in with questions that nearly make us die of boredom. And we choose not to take those ones either. The management's decision is final. Michael and Thalia will politely invite. Well, in Thalia's case, politely and Michael's case, a little more brusquely invite you to jog on, to move along, to free up the phone line for someone with a slightly less dull question. And we don't want any arguments about whether it's dull or not. Guide. As a general guide, if it's about motoring, it won't get on. If it's about almost anything else under the sun, it probably will. And I still have my question in place that has not been answered. Three weeks now. My first ever mystery hour question. No one's answered it. Why do I find it hard to get out of bed? Every weekday morning, I dream of staying in bed, and then on Saturday and Sunday, I wake up at the same time, roll over, expecting that wash of fatigue to flow over me, and it's just not there. I can't go back to sleep when I don't have to get up, and I don't want to do anything but go back to sleep when I do have to get up. Let's start in Aldershot, though, this week. Paddy's there. Paddy, what's your question? All right, dude. Hello, mate. It's in the army, we use a term for having food as well as scoff. You've got scran, right? And I'd like to know where scran comes from, what it's got to do with food or. Didn't you ask anyone when you were in the army? Yeah, they just said, stop asking stupid questions. Nobody knew. No, that's. That's. That's the. They're just trying to be nasty about it because they were too dull to know. It's. It's scottish and not. Nor certainly scottish. I think it's northern. But. But I don't know why. I don't know why it's a word for food, Scott. I mean, you could have asked about Scoff. Why is scoff a word for food? But we've got the verb to scoff, haven't we? I think Scott sounds like it, doesn't it? I suppose it does. All right, you're on. I'm pretty sure it's scottish, but that's not an answer to your question. Cheers, love. You're on. Kevin's in Arlo. Kevin, question or answer? Cheers, love. Nice. And I'm just wondering how people. It's going to be one of those days, isn't it? I can tell already how people who are blind. How do I know where Braille is written? For example, I was in a toilet recently and there was on the side it said, press here to flush, but it was written in brow underneath. And I thought, if I was blind, would I have to run my hands over the whole wall trying to find that. Well, yes. Is it written at a certain space? How will they know where it is? Just habit and familiarity. There's not going to be a specific sort of way of knowing, it's just usually it will be there. If you're at the traffic crossing, then you know to put your hand underneath the. Underneath the button pressing device to get the special blind person's buzzy thing on the. On the crossings. As. I don't. Why am I answering this? I don't know. I haven't got a clue. I haven't got a clue. There must be a first time of going somewhere that you think, what do I do? Why do. Can I ask you a question? Yeah, of course you can. Thanks, mate. Thanks, love. It's all right. Why are we a mystery? If I had to pick one sort of human condition that questioners on mystery are fascinated by, it's blindness. We're fascinated by blindness. Seeing people. People with full vision are fascinated by violence, by blindness. Why do you think that is? It's because it's. It's just worst case scenario, isn't it? You can't imagine losing that. So we're always thinking about how would a blind person cope with you? Yeah. And also maybe there's an element of. You can imagine it happening to you. So actually you do wonder, how do they cope? Because blindness is something, I don't know, almost believable. You can't quite believe that other conditions might befall you. But what other questions? We have people. How do the guide dogs know where to go? What do blind people see when they dream? They're all answered, by the way, on the mystery. So don't ring in with them. If you are sight restricted. If you are blind, give us a ring. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call. I love that. That's a nice question. How do you know where to look for the braille? I presume it's just habit and familiarity, but I'd like to hear it from someone who actually knows. Ten after twelve phone lines are open and Gary in Morden is next. Gary, question or answer? Question. James. Gary. Hello, mate. You right? Yeah. Mustn't grumble you. Yeah, not bad, mate. Nice one. What's the question? Uh, grassy. Where'd it come from? Grass. Yeah, but I've never seen it. Yeah, but you know why? Why is that? Because you mow it. We're cutting it. Yeah. Are you sure? Well, what happens if you don't mow it, Gary? Seeds come out as far as. So how's this call worked out for you? Oh, great. Yeah. How's it for you? I've got this. Well played, Gary. Everybody's been there. Everyone's. Everyone's. Where couldn't you get grass seed from? Because there's never any seed on my lawn. That's because you cut it. Well played. Jack's in Sheffield. Jack, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Jack. Well, what's the distinction between a narrator and a commentator? Because we're watching tv last night. Yeah. We wanted to find out who the narrator was to come down, but my girlfriend said, well, there's a commentator. He comments on what action's taking place. And I said, yeah, but narrate. And then I was kind of a bit stumped by it, so I just wondered if you could give me an answer. I can, I think, as long as you're comfortable with that, because I'm going to go for two. For two now, and I know sometimes people feel I should throw it open a little bit more widely. Go on. Well, and I think on come dine with me. It is a narrator. I think your girlfriend's wrong because he's reading a script that's been written and to come dine with me is recorded. If it was going out live and he was making his comments, then he would actually be a commentator. But a narrator reads a commentator, like at the football, describes what's actually happening in front of them. Live or as live. Okay, but if. Say, I'll take another example. Say, if it's like, I hate using this, but big brother. Yeah. The narrator narrates on what's happening sometimes live and not reading. Not necessarily. I don't think he does, actually. I think. I think all of the narrated bits are pre recorded and when it goes live, that's when there's no commentary. But even if you're right, that would be an example of someone actually doing both. When it's commenting on something, when it. Look, when it's been written in advance and he reads it out, he's narrating. If it's coming off the top of his head in response to what he can see, it's commentating. It doesn't matter whether it's big brother, come dine with me or the FA cup. If it's. If it's off the top of his head, it's commentating. If it's written down in advance, it's narrating. It's. That simple. Yeah, fair enough. I'll go with that. Have you won the argument with your girlfriend or lost it? She tends to see things from their point of view, so, yes. That's a silly question, Jack. Silly. You've lost it, haven't you? Whether you realize it or not, Martin's in southend on sea. Martin, question or answer? Answer, James, about the blind question. Okay. Yeah. Uh. There's approximately 2 million people blind in this country, but only 2% of them can't see anything at all. That's where people get this misconception, because you can. Actually, I'm registered blind myself, but I can see certain bits. I wouldn't be rubbing my hand all over the toilet wall to find out if there was Brian on it. You sort of know roughly where that. Where the button is or the handle to push the. Flush the toilet. So there's only. There's a. There's a fairly small catchment area where it could be. That's right. You're not going to accidentally stick your arm down the cars or anything like that? No. If you're fully blind, like the 2% can't see anything. Secure blackness. Yes. Obviously, even then they would know. So where the flasher is from experience. Absolutely. It's not really a mystery, but it's nice to hear it from. From the perspective of someone who's lived it. Is that a common misconception? Because as soon as you mentioned it, I had one of those homo Simpson moments. Of course, most people who are, quote, blind, end quotes, can see something. That's right. A lot of people don't understand that. Like, with me, I can do certain things. Of course. I thought you were blind. Well, I am blind. So are you. Con artist. I thought you were blind. Put that down. What you do. Exactly, James. That's what. That's what the misconception is. I'm glad you've helped clear that up. And you can read braille, can you, Martin? I can't, no. I've only been, like, registered blind for years and I didn't attempt to it, but I always thought Braille might come in, like abcs and things like that. James? Yes. It's all funny, diagrams and all that. I rubbed my finger over it and tried. It's like any language. You'd be much better off learning it as a kid than you are trying to learn it later in life as an adult. Are you going to stick with it or. No. Anything to do with anything, letters or anything, they do an extra large writing and I put my bifocal glasses on and my magnifier. Yeah. And I should be able to read it. Then you struggle through. Hang in there. Thanks, Martin. And the radio course is massive. Bonus. Compared to the telly. I imagine the radio is something that you can sort of enjoy on a level identical to everybody else's. It's 1215. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 90 minutes after twelve. The origin of the why do we call food scram? Particularly in military slang? Paddy X army wants to know. That's the only one we haven't done, isn't it? The braille was nailed. I did the grass feed and the other one. So I'm going to include a Twitter question. This is for people listening on podcast. I keep promising to do this and I keep forgetting. And frankly, that's one of the sort of characteristics of a live radio show. It is also a very popular podcast, which is great. And we're really proud of that and we love it. But of course, when we're live and we're looking at the clock and if I now sneeze, you will hear it. I have no control over that or over what happens next. You forget about the recorded side of it. So I'm supposed to do this every week, and I'm sorry that I keep forgetting, but here is of Ian Schofield. This is the mystery Twitter question submitted earlier in the week. Okay, I like this one. The missus has just asked, james, did women in the middle Ages shave their legs? I love that question. I'd have asked it slightly differently. When did women start shaving their legs? But did. I mean, did they do it in the Middle Ages? And we'll move it on to when did they start doing it? I think. Thanks for that. Listening on the podcast. Presumably, Ian, not everyone's allowed to listen at work. You know, Dave's in Slough. Dave, question or answer? Hello, man. I've got a question. Go on. I was watching the tv and as an advert, I think it's Marco Pierre White. The chef. Yeah. And he's making burgers. He goes to a butcher's and he says, is the beef locally sourced? And the guy says, yes, 70 miles away. I don't class 70 miles as being local. So what? Hang on. And it could have come from Argentina. Absolutely it could have. So in comparison to Argentina, yes, of course it's local, but as a lorry drive, I don't consider 70 miles drive to get some beef as being local. I love this question. So what would be the boundaries of a local? I don't know. Is it an official term? Locally sourced? You see it a lot, don't you, in pubs and restaurants? Locally sourced this, locally sourced that, buying supermarkets and everything. It might not mean anything. What would be the boundary? It might not mean anything. It might just mean Britain or. I mean, I don't know. If you're in Cornwall, you're closer to France than you are to Scotland, aren't you? Absolutely. Well, not so much Cornwall, more the other side. Yeah. Yeah. So that's my question and I love it. You're on. What is locally sourced? Is it? I mean, what if it's not anything? That's. That's an answer, isn't it? Someone actually knows for a fact there is no legal definition of locally sourced. Might just mean you popped into budgings on the way home. Absolutely. That's about as local as it gets for us. Why are you. Was it the advert that made you wonder and then thinking of the distance you do made you wonder what local was? It was actually my brother. He's the one that asked it to me and I said, I don't know. I'm not too sure. So I thought I'd ring up and find out. Guess where I saw Marco Pierre White last year? Dave. What about Peppa pig world at where? Peppa pig world. Oh, did you finish? Wow. Strange place to meet him. Funny old one. I didn't meet him, I just saw him. Big difference. 22 minutes after twelve. Jeremy's in popular. Jeremy, question or answer? Question. Marvelous. What is the shelf life of an unopened bottle of tequila? Pour croix. In 1986, I bought a bottle of tequila and I haven't touched it since then. Tequila. Well, it'll be fine. I mean, I would. Is there nothing on it? Is there no sell by date or anything like that? I don't think so, no. I would have thought strong alcohol. What's the worst that can happen as long as it's sealed? Spirit. I mean, it might all manage. Well, yes. I don't know. It might mature in the bottle. It might do. It might. And wine can go off in the bottle as well, but that's more to do with the cork than it is with anything else. So, I mean, honey is supposed. I think honey, I read recently, is the only foodstuff that never goes off. You could actually eat the honey they put in pharaoh's tombs, in the pyramids and be absolutely fine. It would still taste delicious. As delicious as the day it was excreted by a bee. So tequila, presumably, can go off. You want to know, 1986. You bought it? Yep. November. If you want someone just to drink it, the producer has volunteered. Michael's quite fond of tequila. Has he got one of those little worms in it? He wants to know. No, no. That's fine, then, because he's going through a vegetarian phase. If you want him to drink your bottle of tequila and then we'll just watch him. We could do it on YouTube or something. We could get him to drink it and then point a camera at him, Jeremy. Just see what happens. Like a sort of latter day tequila based beef eater. I might take you up on that one. I'll pass you as details. How long? How long? 1986. How will Jeremy's tequila be bearing up? And actually, while I speak to one, Jeremy, I just want to give a quick message to another Jeremy and Wimbledon, who you may remember, frequent and regular contributors to the program. I haven't replied to your letter yet, Jeremy, but the concerns you express in it are, I can assure you, completely unfounded. Completely unfounded. Oh, Martin didn't get his applause. We've had complaints. Well, Martin went big on the braille question. Didn't he get a lot of complaints today? Some perhaps more serious than others. This is for Martin. It's pretty bad that the only caller that we forget to give the sound effect to is the one who can't see very well. Wayne's in bar flipping egg. Really? Yes. So no news, then? No, no, she's well over being pregnant. I've got a steward inquiry for you, sir. No, no, no. I just want to deal with the important stuff first. So how past the due date is your beloved now, Wayne in Basil? I don't know. Due date is Sunday, but it's also the north London derby this weekend, which is really, I'm really worried about. Yeah. Priorities. Fair enough. I said. I said all the sweet stuff I'm going to say last week. You realize that, don't you? You're not getting any more. Yeah. You're not getting any more brick bats or bouquets about what a great dad you're going to be. Ah, damn. I just did it again. Question or answer, then it's a stupid inquiry, sir, about the grass seed. The gentleman caller asked, why doesn't he see grass seed? He does, but I don't think he realizes it's grass seed. Yeah. You know, you get those long bits of grass towards the periphery of any sort of lawn, which tend to have them. Little bits of corn grown out the top of them. Yeah. We used to call them flea darts. Yeah. And we used to chuck them. Chuck them each other. And we used to get them stuck on our school jumpers when we used to go back in the class and our teacher would say, can you get all of those grass seeds off of you before you enter the classroom? And that's how we found out where they were. Grass seed. I didn't know they were grass seed at all until. See, this wasn't. This wasn't really a steward's inquiry, Wayne. It was more. It was more of a sort of vaguely relevant reminiscence from Wayne's memory banks that doesn't actually challenge in any way the answer that I supplied and got a round of applause for. No, because you said that you cut it. Why hasn't he seen the flea darts recently? Because it's the winter. No, why hasn't he seen the flea darts in the last few years? He has, but he didn't realize that they were. No, because the grass he was looking at when he was forming the question, where is all the grass seed? Didn't have any because it had been cut. Ok, how about if you listen back to the call? The point at which I suggested that cutting the grass might be relevant to the answer to the question was the point at which he sort of went, oh, he knows what grass looks like when it's uncut, and he knows that those chunks of things on the top of the grass is where the seeds are. But because he cuts it all the time, he hasn't seen them for ages, and therefore they don't come out in the winter. They would still be there, wouldn't they, if you hadn't chopped them down in the summer? They might not be surviving very well, but you'd still have long grass on the edge of a field. So really, if it wasn't for the imminent baby, I'd probably mug you off now, Wayne, with a flea in your ear. Well, I'd like. I'd like to see James rule on that and see if I get a round of applause and you get the flea in the air, you want to throw it to Jones the engineer. Yeah, well, that's. You're just going to do what they all do. You're just going to join them ganging up on me, whether it's right or wrong or fair. All right, I'm going to do it. All right, we'll leave it to Jones the engineer. Wayne. Ready? Now. Do you know what we call that? He's piped me right off. Tumbleweed. Have a great day. 28 after twelve. Sarah's in Woolwich. Sarah, question or answer question, please. Yes. How does snowplow drivers get to work? I don't think they do anymore, do they, in this? Is that a proper question? Yeah. I've been dying to know for years. It's a sort of old, sort of semi riddle, isn't it? But. But, I mean, yeah, helicopter. I don't know how snowplow drivers get to work, but do you know something, Sarah, that may be relevant to your question? Well, you can walk through snow even when you can't drive on it. Oh, yeah, I know that. Oh, good. 1228. I'll take a round of applause, please. They either go to work on a snowplow or they walk. It's not exactly rocket science. A couple of phone lines free. And feel free to dive in with some rocket science. Scran, the shaving of legs. My sleep question, locally sourced. And tequila. We've got loads to get through. Why is food called Scran? It's a northern scottish thing popularized in army slang. When did women start shaving their legs? Zero 345-606-0973 when food is locally sourced, does that actually mean anything? Is there any legal parameter or definition of what is locally sourced? What's the shelf life on a bottle of tequila still sealed but bought in 1986? Will it still be neckable? And any question you want added to that list as well. Phone number. You need to answer any of those or to ask one of your own, is zero 345-606-0973 but I'm almost dreaming up a newer reward. As if a round of applause isn't adequate. If you can answer my question. Three weeks old and counting. 3ft high and rising. My question is why, when you don't have to get up, can you not force, can you not go back to sleep? But when you do have to get up, you can't think of anything you'd rather do than stay in bed and go back to sleep. You're listening to mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC at 12:30 Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 1234 and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery out continues. Questions that still need answers origin of the word scran when describing food. The original question and I've changed it. I think you'll allow me to change it. When you came in via Twitter, did women shave their legs in the middle ages? I'd like to know when women started shaving their legs. That's a weird one. There you go. That is the essence of mystery out of that. Something that has been happening under our noses for all of our lives. Most of us, male or female, have been familiar with the phenomenon of leg shaving, leg waxing, removing body hair. And we've never actually wondered when it started. See, stockings and tights probably had something to do with it, didn't they? That would be the when. You so remember that scene in a private function. Do you remember that scene in a private function where he's painting a seam down the back of her stockings? That would have looked odd if she'd had hairy legs. So when did women stop letting it all hang out? That's one of the questions that needs an answer. We also want to know what locally sourced means in the context of food or restaurants or shops. And is there a shelf life on a bottle of tequila? Beverley's in Sutton. Beverley. Question or answer? Question? Carry on. I've been hearing a lot of people say this. Why does it, when you drink alcohol at lunchtime, it seems to make you feel more tired than when you do in the evening. Haha. It's a field of particular expertise for me, this, Beverly, I've given this a lot of thought and I think I know the answer. I could. I could be wrong, but when I was a journalist, I'd regularly do two, three bottle lunches with. With contacts and colleagues and you would feel tired, but you'd go back to work and you'd battle through it or you'd keep topping yourself up through the course of the afternoon. And I think the reason is when you drink at lunchtime, you then have to go and do other stuff. Uh huh. If you drink in the evening, you're not really doing anything else. You're just having fun, having a nice time. And you do get more tired than you would do if you hadn't had a drink at all. But you don't, you know, you have a good lunch, you don't then have to go and do the school run, do you? Or go back to the office and do it back to normality. Precise evening. You're just enjoying yourself. I don't think you do feel more tired if you start a session at lunchtime and carry on right through. Do you lie to me, lady? Don't you lie to me, lady. When you start at opening time, at 11:00 on the ginger wine, I know for a fact, Beverly, that you're still going strong at closing time and there's been no fatigue at all involved because you haven't had to go and, you know, put the bins out or do some work in the meantime. No, exactly. Yes. Possible. I am thinking back now, maybe. Told you it was a field of expertise. No, that's right. So in future, then, whenever we go out for drink at lunchtime, we must carry on and not to go back to any normal duty. You're being a little facetious, aren't you, with this? But actually, yes. Because now that my children have reached an age where I can just about have a couple of pints at lunchtime with them in the pub on a Sunday afternoon with the fire lit, and know that we know that we will sort of be okay, they're not going to run off or do anything like that. You can actually sort of have a session. Whereas when they were younger, and you'd have to take them home or change their nappies or something like that, when they were younger, never used to have a drink at lunchtime because I had so much to do in the afternoon, regardless of whether I was busy or not, I had children. Round of applause for me. I'm having fun today. I'm fine every day. Warren's in Northwood. Hello, Warren. I am. I am. Good. Firstly, before I ask my question, I just. In my humble opinion, you've made a great offense to question hour. You've gone against all the rules and regulations and standing operating procedure of the actual meaning of the hour that you're holding. Oh, you. You have actually self declared that you've changed the question. Is that allowed? Well, it was submitted by Twitter. What's that got to do with the price of fish? Well, I couldn't ask the questioner if he minded me changing it in the way that I would if it had been rung in. I let you decide. What's a better question? Did women shave their legs in the middle ages or when did women start shaving their legs? Oh, you better ask Steve Allen. It's not his expert. I thought it had something to do with stocking. It's not his field of expertise. Know what? Um. Yeah. What is the preferable question? When did they start doing it or did they do it then? When? Yeah. Thank you. So we're in agreement now? Carry on. Um, right. Question. Yes? I was on a plane last night. Oh. Coming back from China. Oh, yeah. And exactly in line with the windows of the aircraft, ie, in level with the windows of the aircraft was the moon. You didn't look up at the moon. You actually, if anything, if we want to be really specific, you have to actually look down. Slightly down at it. Yeah. So how come when the moon's what, 230,000 miles away, up above the earth? Yeah. When you're flying at 7 miles above the earth, do you actually look down on the moon and don't come look down on the moon or just look at the same level as the moon? Correct. Yeah, yeah. Well, it was slightly down, and then it was mostly the same level. Mostly the same level. So you're looking out the window. Right. And you're looking straight. Straight. Completely straight. And you see the moon. Yeah. Should look up, shouldn't you? Right. And the moon doesn't set like the sun. I can understand if it was the sun. Yeah. But you say that you've just. I think you might just answer that. I'm gonna. I'm gonna work this one through with you. Okay, well, hold on, hold on. If you're standing on the earth, you're moving with the earth. Yeah, sorry, that's right. But you're up in the air. Yeah. Have you got a pen and paper with you? How is it that hard? Yeah. Okay. Have you got one? Yeah. All right, just wait a second, because some people won't be ready for this. Just go and get yourselves a pen and paper. Right. Okay. Now draw one big circle. Right. That's the earth. Correct. Now draw a tiny little dot at about 01:00. Okay. How far away from the earth? That's entirely up to you. Right, okay, you got it? Okay. Yeah. Now move your finger to 11:00. Yeah. And put another. And put another circle to represent the moon. But it was a dot, just. No, the dots, you. The dots, the plane. Oh, okay. Okay. So now I want you to go to 11:00 and go about ten times further out from the original circle than you have done with the dot. And draw another circle for the moon. Right? Yeah. Now draw a line between the dot and the second circle. Right. You just skim the earth. Is that line straight? Yeah. There you go. So the moon is at the same level as the plane, even though it's much, much further away from the earth and the planet. No, no, no. Get in. Get it on the webcams. I'm gonna do a dance. Michael, don't give him a round of applause. It's not Michael, it's Jones. Okay? Don't know. That's it. That's the answer. We need house on the phone. I'm not having it. That's brilliant. That was I done. That's the first ever pictorial answer to mister. That was correct. Actually. You can see the line is straight. Isn't it? The only thing that is. Yeah, yeah. Thank you, Warren. Thank you. I should take my round of applause now. Can I give it to you? Yeah, go on. That's amazing. Warren shutting. Cost of thousands involved. Is that the right answer? We all agreed on that. Yeah. It has to be, doesn't it? Yeah. Okay. Wow. I just did actual physics or astronomy or something like that. I think it's a bit of mix. Magnificent mix of both. Warren. Until the next time. Been a pleasure. Mind how you go. Dave's in Surbiton. Dave. Question or answer? It's an answer. Come on, then. It's to the question of ladies shaving their legs. You sound like an expert. Yeah, do mine. Um. It dates back to 500 bc. Shut the front door. Yep. Roman ladies used to rub their legs with pumice stones, but then they also developed the early form of razor. But it even goes further, further back than that. Ancient Egyptians had no body hair at all because it was deemed as being cleaner. Really? So they pluck it out? Yeah. You couldn't have lice or anything like that? It was. It was deemed to be cleaner, but it was. Yes. Dated back 500 BC to roman ladies qualifications. I googled it. But you're not allowed to do that. Well, you know, I've googled it. No. How long have you been listening to mystery hour? Oh, ages and ages. But then again, my. But you know the rules, Dave. No, I don't know the rules. You didn't know. You know, what's the point if you're allowed to google it? Why do you think we've been doing this for the last few years? If you could google it, there'd be no point doing it. My great great aunt was roman and she told me. Great great aunt was roman. You knew the rule, didn't you? Tell me the truth now, because I've turned on. Stop talking. Turn on the light. Can you just turn on the light detectors, James? First the voice recognition software. Thank you. Go on, Dave. You knew the rules, didn't you? No. Honestly. Liar. I swear on my chance I didn't know the rules. Honest to God. I'll let Jones decide. Round of applause. Oh, mate. Rubbed out. Unlocked. Sorry. I mean, someone else can ring in with that answer, but they can't google it. And I heard Dave say it ten minutes ago. Is that going to count as a qualification? Frankly, I doubt it. I would have given Dave the round of applause then, because I honestly believed him. I thought he didn't. Oh, crikey. Alright. I only invented this game. Barry's in Barnhurst. Barry. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Go on, Barry. It's an answer to the tequila question about can it go off? Oh, yes. Well, it's a rectified spirit, so, no, it shouldn't go off, because if you think of things like whiskey and brandy, which sit in the barrel for many years, open to the air, the only thing that happens is that they evaporate slightly. But rectified spirits are used to preserve medical specimens. Of course they are, yeah. Pickling. Yeah. It wouldn't go off. And especially as it's been sealed down, it won't evaporate either, because it's sealed. So he should be fine. 1986, still going strong, should be the same strength. All he needs is a bit of salt and a few lemons or limes, as long as they're not off. Oh, that's a good point, yeah. Don't want to use rancid lemons. Qualifications, Barry? I visited a few distilleries and I have first hand knowledge of tequila and other spirits. I shall say no more. That seems fairly plausible to me, actually. And it's earned you this. I hope it works. Now, there we go. 1245 is the time. Still time. I still need answers to the scran. The leg shaving. Still there. But I need proper qualifications, locally sourced. That's going to be interesting. I might tip off one of my newspaper friends about that. If there isn't an answer to the question of what's locally sourced, there's a lovely little expose to be done, isn't there, about. You can see the headline there. In fact, you could write it now. Locally sourced can mean anything up to 500 miles away. It's 1245. Good Lord. It's ten to one already. We've done the tequila, we haven't done the leg shaving, although I just had a very serious complaint come in from Louise in Bolton. Dave, mate, you've really ruined everyone's day with this sort of using Google. The first rule of mystery hour is there is no mystery hour. The second rule of mystery hour is that you're not allowed to go near search engines or googles. Louise in Bolton, she's employed several letters, many, many more than the traditional five, when she writes, james, I am the missus to Ian Schofield and I'm devastated about Mister Google's answer. He knew the rules. I could have googled it myself. That's why you're not allowed to google stuff. Louise wanted to know whether or not women shaved their legs in the middle ages. Her partner Ian submitted it via Twitter two or three days ago. I didn't know she was listening. I'm embarrassed now, thanks to Dave ripping up the rules. In fact, quite a few people are unhappy. Paul says this is the second time in weeks you've allowed Google to intrude on this show. I want a student inquiry, but like Chilcott, I probably wouldn't get a result for years. And crikey, this is fighting talk. Oh, James, this is the end of days. Mystery hour is disappearing into its own fundament. No qualifications. Changing of questions, googling. Oh, my dear lord. I take your point. And finally, this from an unnamed contributor. Please get a grip, Matthews, in tooting. Matthew, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Come on, then, rideo taking you back to your geography lessons at school, where we were shown the world or the earth with a cross section, an orange segment taken out of it. Yeah. And in that orange segment, we had the earth's core. I think it was an inner mantle, outer mantle, crust, etcetera. Yeah. What I would like to know is how the front door, was we able to work that out? How do they know what, smack in the middle of the earth. Yeah. Or even halfway through the earth, anywhere below where has actually been successfully drilled? Exactly. How do we know what's inside? So I just believe that we know nothing of the things that we speak of in some instances. And this is one of those. Yeah. Well, they must. I mean, I presume we haven't heard from any of the professors yet this week, have we? Oh, no. Eh? I know. Where are they all gone? I can't get rid of Wayne Embassild and he's hanging around like a bad smell. But the professors have been notable mostly by their absence this week. Well, this could be a chance for them to fill their boots before 01:00. Matthew, many thanks. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can answer that. And just, like, glance at the clock, it's another every day this week. The show's just disappeared before we've even started. But I want answers to these questions. So do you sell locally sourced food in your pub or restaurant or shopping? If you do, what does it actually mean? There's a Marco Pierre White advert that the questioner had noticed. His brother, actually, they talk about, goes to the butcher, says this. Locally sourced? The butcher says, yeah, we get it from 70 miles away, which is local. In relative terms, it was beef. It could have come from Argentina. But what does it actually mean in real terms? Is there a point at which you can't claim something is locally sourced anymore. If it comes from 101 miles away, you can't call it that. If it comes from 99 miles away, you can. It's fascinating because it's a big part of modern food selling. Oh, it's locally sourced. When did women start shaving their legs? The answer seems to be 4000 years BC. Women have been at it forever. And some men in some cultures. Because, of course, hair and body hair can be linked to conditions. Fleas, scabies and the like. Why is food called scran? I haven't got the answer to that. And what is. How do they know what's in the earth's core, given that we've never been there? Matt's in Bromley. Question or answer, Matt? Well, it's an answer to a question that you haven't got on the board. But you were very disappointed. Dismissive to the lady who were phoning up about the. Matt, just back up a minute, mate. Dismissive? Me? I can't even spell dismissive. I'm the least dismissive man you're ever going to meet. I'm also appalled about the Google thing as well. You and me both, Matt. We can agree on that, at least. I should have been dismissive with him, shouldn't I? So what did I get wrong with the lovely lady who rang in about the snowplows? Well, it was a perfectly good question and a very sensible question because I work for a local authority. Our weather forecasting now is so accurate that we get from the Met office that we know that the snow is coming. So the snowplow drivers are already at work? Yes. And how did they get there? How do they get when they drive or however they get there? Exactly. That's what I said. Already at work, before the snow. You said you can walk through snow? Yes, you can. You can do that as well. That was just part of the answer. Yeah, but still, she asked a question on what she was meaning in that. And if you spent a little time with her, she meant when it was snowing. Sorry. Undertaking a massive rearguard action here. I know that they can sometimes go there the night before, but other times they walk. Well, they can walk if they want to, but they're. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's all I said. Well, apparently, I don't know. I've got. If you could see his grinning face, Matt, you'd already know the answer to that question. If you could see Jones, the engineer's Cheshire cat like fizzog at the moment because he thinks you might just have got one over on me, I think. Well, I personally think so, yeah. Right. Should we stop talking and see if anything happens? Oh, it's gone. Well done. All right. That was one of mine. I've done well this week, so I won't begrudging that. Ian's in Harrow. Question or answer in the question. Good afternoon. My question is, can gps self prescribe or must they see another GP to get prescriptions? Why do you want to know? I just wondered. It's a good question. The question came to my mind and I thought I'd ask you guys. Yeah, I like that. And if you are a GP and you can answer that question, you will get on. We're going to just keep a couple of these phone lines free. Can gps write prescriptions for themselves? Zero. 345-606-0973 Michael is in high Wicker. Michael, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's the question that you've had running for about three weeks. Yes. About why you wake up on Monday unhappy. Wake up on Friday happy. It's not happy. No, no, no. Just to clarify, it's when I don't have to get up, I don't want to and when I know when I do have to get up, I don't want to. And when I don't have to get up, I don't want to stay in bed. I don't understand why I love lions. Okay, well, you do have to get up to go to work. Yes. If you like work, you'll be happy to get up. No, wrong, sorry. I love my job. Yeah, exactly. And I hate getting up. Okay, try again. I think it's. It's memory. Right. And when you're a baby, you're happy. Every morning you get up and whatever they say you're going to do, you go off with a happy face. As you get older, you learn that some things are not nice or a bore or onerous or something like that. And say, for example, first time you go to a dentist, you're happy. He drills, causes pain. Next time someone says, Monday you're going to the dentist, you're unhappy. What's that noise in the background? Dog. What's the noise? The noise is the dog barking. Barking was the word I was looking for. Michael, Jilly's in Ringwood. Jilly, question or answer? Answer. That, was that too cruel? Yes, very good. It was pretty cruel, but it was just. It was not the right. I don't like getting out of bed Monday to Friday. I like to go back to sleep Saturday and Sunday. It takes a real effort to go back to sleep. The question stays on the board. What's your answer? Answer to when women start a shaving their leg. Oh, yes, right. I heard this once and it stuck in my mind. Well, it would. It goes back to the. Goes back to the sort of early 19 hundreds, 1920s, when women started exposing their legs, their skirts started getting shorter and a certain razor company in America saw a market for it and started an advertising campaign for women to shave their legs and under their arms. I like it and I'm going to give you a round of applause because you're lovely. But the bottom line is, they were also doing it in ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia and places like that. Quick round. Was it Jeremy's and Aberyspith? Question or answer, Jeremy? I've got an answer for you, James. Quickly, just quickly. Yeah. What it is is european. I mean. Sorry, a food. Locally sourced. Locally sourced, yeah. What that actually means, and this is according to Europe as well, is it defines a geographical area where it comes from, so. But it could be as big. Big as America or Russia, or it could be as big as Wesley. That's dope. That's Dop. That's slightly different. No, no, no, because what it is is. I'm late, we're out. Sheila's here. Quickly, scran Joe sitting. Born 13 sec, 3 seconds. What? Scranton. Right, there's this. Too slow, too slow. Sheila Fogarty waits for no man. It's James O'Brien. Back tomorrow at ten. Here's Sheila.