When does a Master become a Mr?

On LBC. It is our good news, Len. We got to cut off just before the news. His foster son did get a place in the school that we were just talking about after appealing. So thank you, Len, for getting in touch with that. The time waits for none of us. And now it is mystery hour. Three minutes after twelve is the time your weekly opportunity to get the sort of education you can't get in grammar school, state school, secondary, modern school or comprehensive school. In fact, if your kids have been sent home from school for not wearing the right uniforms, make sure they listen to this. It won't necessarily constitute part of their punishment, but it means they might at least pick something up in the course of the hour. It is, if you like, the radio equivalent of those newspaper features where people write in to ask a question and some weeks later they might be lucky enough to get an answer. Today you get your answer immediately. And I forgot to mention before the news that we were about to start mystery hour. So if you think you've got a really good question, ring now and you've got a better chance of getting on the board than you usually do at four minutes after twelve. And by a really good question, I mean, if you've rung in before and we haven't exactly bitten your arm off with enthusiasm, don't ring in again. Things get so busy so quickly. But sometimes we spend the first ten minutes of mystery having to sort quite a lot of chaff from the wheat. And I don't mean that in a critical way or insulting way, it's just an operational hazard that we have. If your question is about cars or motoring or something quite boring, it probably won't get on the board. If, for example, you can't quite imagine in a room full of 100 people, if you think that maybe only a few will be interested in the answer to the question that you're going to ask, it's not very good for our purposes. Okay. Repetition is our problem. There's a mystery, our archive. You can look at LBC co dot UK, which might give you an indication of whether or not the question you're poised to ask has ever been asked before. But that. That's my lookout, as it were. Dullness is your lookout. Who, why, where, when? Wash with whether, wherefore, even the occasional whence. It doesn't matter. Whatever the question is, why do we do this? Where does that come from? What's the origin of this? What's the explanation for that? When you do this, why does that happen? Genuinely, anything from the silly right through to the sublime. And if you hear somebody ask a question to which you can provide an answer, then ring in and tell us, because obviously that's the whole point. The number remains the same. So the number is the same whether you're ringing in with a question or whether you're ringing in with an answer. There are a couple of guarantees here. I think you'll have at least one laugh out loud moment between now and 01:00. I've never had to provide any refunds on that pledge. And you will definitely have more knowledge by 01:00 than you have now. As I say, on a weekly basis, you can't really guarantee that the knowledge will be something you're grateful for, but it is nonetheless knowledge that you will accrue. I'm just going to read that text in full from Len, actually, about his foster son. He goes, the foster lad gained a place in the school on appeal. As the new head supports the leg up, he's now in the top 5% of his year. The kids who were tutored are the ones who are struggling. So another reason why the current system of grammar schools doesn't help the kids who most need help, unless you get a visionary headmaster like that. But anyway, I digress. That's enough formal education for one day. Time now to press on with the informal education of mystery hour. Ben is in Hereford. Ben, question or answer? Afternoon, James. We've got a question for you. Carry on. I'm actually in sunny Essex today as well, by the way. Okay. I shall adjust our records accordingly. Yeah, I took some. It's a bit of a weird question, this one, James. I took some rubbish down to my girlfriend's rubbish store in her flats the other day. I've taken it down before and I seem to notice every single time I take rubbish to the rubbish area or to a tip, the rubbish always smells exactly the same. There's always the same smell for rubbish. Yes. And I want to know why it always smells the same. Can you describe that smell to us, do you think? Musky. And. And that sounds quite, quite attractive. My teenage. My teenage years were permanent, permeated with the aroma of white musk from the body shop. That ain't gonna work as a description of a rubbish tip. I must admit, James, I do tend to hold my breath when I go in there. But you're confident the smell is exactly the same? It is always the same. Now, if I went and put. It's very noisy in Essex today, Ben. That's my son, he's running around playing with a toy carry on. If I went and put 100 rotten eggs in there, it would still smell the same, would it? Right, yeah. If you put 100 rotten eggs in with the rest of the rubbish, it would still smell the same. Yep. I mean, there's about. There's about six or seven skits in my girlfriend's rubbish area. Imagine if someone had just tuned in to that. What the hell is he talking about? Is this some sort of sick new phone in show? I. There's six or seven tips in my girlfriend's rubbish area. It's a difficult second album you've got going on there. But I. Mate, it's all about bacteria, isn't it? Isn't it just the smell of putrefaction that you've got. I just don't understand it, though, James. It's decomposition. It's the bacteria. You can smell the bacteria that is decomposing. The rubbish is giving off the aroma. Surely things, different things decomposing would decompose. Yeah, but the bacteria that is making the decomposition is emitting flatulence. What you've got is bacteria flatulence, right. Got all their albums. Is that definite, James? No. No. Even close. I didn't think. But it's Occam's razor. I mean, it's the only thing. What does all rubbish have in common? It's all rotting. What else does it have in common? It all smells the same. Could it therefore be the case that it all smells the same because it's all rotting? I'm not going to accept that, James, because you just said that you're not going to finish. No, no. But if it turns out to be true, I shall have a slice of that. Round of applause. I'll let you have a slice of endorsement. That's very decent of you, Ben. There we go. Why does all rubbish smell the same? Why do rubbish tips whenever you've got a large collection of rubbish? Why does it always smell the same? It's a really good question that I've done what I do every flipping week on this program. I had a couple of crackers up my sleeve and I've completely forgotten them. I promised the kids as well during the holidays that I'd get one on for them. It's like jokes. Do you ever find that with jokes you always think, oh, that's a cracker. I must tell that. I must tell the team that on Monday morning. Never remember a joke when you go, it's a gift I do not possess. Nassim is in Wimbledon. Nassim. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. I wanted to find out whether nuns are allowed to go swimming and if so, what would they wear? Nuns are allowed to go swimming and they can wear whatever they want. So they could wear a swimming costume? Yes, of course. Right, okay, thank you. That was pretty straightforward. Why are you thinking of becoming a nun and the swimming angle was putting you off? There's all this talk of bikinis. Yes. They're not. No, sorry, I need to clarify. All women in the world should be allowed to wear what they want. Muslim women in muslim countries often aren't. And now in France, they're not allowed to wear what they want either. Yeah, but nuns are christians. Yes, I know, but I mean, do you know for a fact I've been swimming with a nun? You have been swimming? I have been swimming with a nun. Okay, that's fair enough. That is pretty conclusive, actually, isn't it? There you go. Can I have a round of applause for that, Naseem? Yes, okay, thank you very much. It's chapter 17 of the autobiography. Professor Howell. Oh, hello, Professor Howell, you're here early this week. Hello, James. Well, it's been a bit of a barren stretch, hasn't it? Been slim picking from mystery out. Slim pickings for you. Because my scientific knowledge is increasing and I'm dealing with quite a lot of the questions you would once have dealt with, I think is actually because I've already told you the answers over the preceding eight years. Yeah, that's what teachers do, Professor Howe. They teach people. And I, as your student, have now learned. I have been educated. You shouldn't sound bitter about it. You should sound proud and possibly even a little paternalistic. No less of the teacher, more of the professor. I'm professing. I'm not teaching any. Anyway, let's stop bickering like a married couple, shall we? If not, I hate to say this, but you are actually more or less right with your answer concerning rubbish. Thank you. I know a lot about rubbish. That's a pleasure. I think the common denominator with rubbish is there's always going to be some food in it and or some other source of proteins. And most bad smells contain. Are volatile things that contain sulfur. So, for example, the smell of flatulence, if I may, is caused by hydrogen sulfide, which is also the smell of rotting eggs. And also the smell used to be in stink bombs, if you remember when you were a young girl. No, you don't know they still exist, stink bombs. You can still buy them. Yeah, the beano have branded quite a lot of them. Those old fashioned tricks. You can get itching powder and stink bombs and all that sort of thing. I thought you'd know that. But you probably make your own, don't you? No. Well, actually, yes, mate. I thought they'd actually banned the glass file type. Oh, they have. But, yeah, you're quite right. I do apologize, as ever, you know more than me. Yeah. A bus ride wasn't complete, of course, unless someone. That stink bomb was. So, anything with sulfuric. Which is why if you have a sort of particularly meaty dinner, your level of flatulence the day after is probably going to be higher because you have lots of sulphur compounds from the disulfide bridges. Also accounts for very smelly breath, that sulfur compound. But also the particular smell that your cause is referring to. Probably going to be something like cadaverine or putrescine, which are key compounds, amines produced by the breakdown products of flesh. And it also explains why. Sorry, are we all right? Still, the smell of fish shouldn't smell fishy. If fish smells of fish, it's actually going off because you get these amines, like cadaverine and putrid, proper fresh fish smells of nothing. So, in summary, you were right. Bacterial breakdown of protein compounds, which makes all rubbish smell the same. Bacterial flatulence it is. Bacterial flatulence, that's my new favorite phrase, not osmosis. Well done, Professor Hal, I should say. Shall I explain what your qualifications are? We've got new listeners arriving by the truckload every day, Professor Howell, so not everyone will know. They'll probably think you're like a comedy professor. They'll think that I just call you Professor Hal because you sound so clever. But you are, actually. I hope you still are the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Yes, happily I am. And that's exactly where I'm sitting right now, at my desk. And let's crack. Should we share another round of applause together, like we've shared so many over the years? I wouldn't have it any other way. Vintage contribution. They're not only introducing the phrase bacterial flatulence to the proceedings, but also allowing us a quick burst of the hallelujah chorus and getting in there with a shared round of applause at the end. That is why. That's why. Some days I can't believe they pay me to do this, but if you tell anyone I said that, we'll have to have words. It's coming up to 12:15 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery air is underway although, I mean, we've got two for two. What was the middle one? I've done the decomposition, we've done the swimming nuns. Was there one in the middle? Have I missed one? Have we got one other? Is there another one? Or are we on the. I think we might be clear so we can start again. We can wipe the Etch a sketch clean and start all over again after the travel news, which is coming up now. This is Ames O'Brien on LBC. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour continues with questions. I think we've answered all the questions we've had so far. Launched a little stewards inquiry during the break. Des is in Collindale. Des. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, sir. The title master is always denotes superiority or excellence of some kind. You know, Master Chef, master this, master that. So I was wondering why it is the traditional form of address for young boys in general when you were a seven year old years old, say, James, you. You may well have had a birthday card addressed to Master James O'Brien. Why. Why would that be a wonder? I mean, it's to distinguish from mister, isn't it? So it's just a denote childhood in the first instance rather than adulthood. Why not just put the name with no title then? I mean. Well, why put mister and missus? I mean, I think we need to zone in on what the question is because, I mean, comparing it with the. It comes from magistere, I think, in the Latin, which is where we get the word magistrate from. And that would be the master that you refer to when you talk about a master baker or. That was close. Or a master chef. But why it then gets passed down to. I couldn't tell you the answer to that, but I wondered why mastering, I mean, you know, so I can give you the mister master distinction. So that. That is just because you're not a mister yet. But I can't get. I don't know why we use the same word to describe a young. A young male who is yet to achieve his majority. That we use to describe an older male who has demonstrated particular expertise in a given field. But I. Mate, that's a pretty complicated question for mystery hour. Oh, right. Isn't it? Well, you see, what came up on my screen was why are boys called masters? To which the simple answer would be, because they're not men yet. But that's not what you've ended up asking. You've ended up asking why we use the same word to describe young males that we used to describe gifted, accomplished old males. Yeah, yeah. All right. Well, I just. I just thought. I just thought it was all. No, it's a great one. I just don't. I don't want to sound well known. Bette Davis film called the nanny, and she was referred to Master Joey. That's right. And of course, there was a famous choir boy and pianist called Master Ernest Lush. I just thought it odd that the term master is always used for. Well, let's find out. Origins of the word master in the context of younger children we may not get an answer to. Depends whether Wayne's listening with his Brewers Dictionary of phrase and fable. Actually, I don't know if it would be in there. Anyway, it's on the list, Des, and it's a cracker. Thank you. Sam is in formanterra. Oh, how lovely. Sam, question or answer? Question, please. James, are you on holiday or do you live there? I'm on holiday. Lovely stuff. What's your question, family? Yes. Well, we were swimming in the sea and we swam across to the island and I was in a warm area and my son said, that's not. That's not good. Why not? He said, it means it's urinate. Someone's urinated. Yeah. He didn't use that word, did he? No, he didn't. And then, as we found fervor, because we just went through cold and hot and cold and hot and there was nobody else about. It definitely wasn't wee wee. No. Just wondered why that is. Um. Well, do you know, weirdly, I don't know form and terror at all, but when I spent a lot of time in Greece, I spent a lot of time with greek people. I was going out with a greek goal. And they know bits that we tourists don't know, not just in terms of restaurants and stuff. And I'll never forget, one time we were out on a speedboat and my friend Jorgos took me to a sort of little cave in the middle of the sea, on a small rocky island in the middle of the sea. And he took me into the little cave and said, put your hand in there. And I put my hand in this sort of little bowlish bit in the. And it was boiling hot water coming out. So I imagine that I can understand the little rock pools being not a little rock pool, because that's coming out constantly. It's coming out like a powerful tap and it's pumping 24/7 so that would create a little. What causing that. That would come with that. That's underwater, you know, that's. That's that's hot stuff under the ground, like, you know, thermal. What's this? Come on, fill in the gap, Sam. I can't do all the heavy lifting. That's like hot springs in it. Like the geysers that you've got in, uh. In. In Iceland, you see the steam coming out of the ground. The geysers? Yeah, it's the. This is the underwater what? Oh, it's underwater. It's the underwater equivalent of that, isn't it? I don't know. That's. I'm asking you. Oh, come on. It's a brilliant. How come. How can it not be that? What else could it possibly be? You've got hot water underwater, so it's, you know. You know when you're in the bath, Sam. Yeah. And you're at the. It's all gone a bit cold and you want to heat it up again. Yeah, but it doesn't sort of change. It does. And then you. So I haven't finished yet. You're still in the bath. Get back in the bath. Get back in the bath. Right. And you got your foot and you just give the old hot tap a nudge with your foot and the hot water comes on. Now, does. As the hot water reaches the bath, does it automatically change the temperature of the entire bath or do you end up with a hot bed? You got to swirl it about, Sam, and the sea doesn't. You know, the sea where you are hasn't swelled it about completely yet, so you've got some lovely warm clouds of water wafting through the surf. Okay. Or, I mean, equally, it be the bits where the sun has shone and heated up the water and then the water has moved around. So it's just about having hot pockets, Sam. Hot pockets. It's all about hot pockets. Hot pockets. Hot pockets. Not bacterial flaps. No, it's not that. It's hot pockets. Oh, it's not fish. We fish. We fish wee. Honestly. No, it's not fish. We. Sam, you don't sound convinced. I sense you're going away sort of a little bit unsatisfied. No. Well, you know. All right. All right, then. I'll leave it on the board. You're not going to take my answer? Scientific answer. I used the word thermal. Thermal. Usually it's osmosis. You shouldn't have got that. You shouldn't have marked. She misused the word. Shouldn't get a hallelujah chorus when you misuse the word. It's a bit too sensitive there. All right, I'll leave it on the board. What are the hot pockets? What causes the hot pockets when Sam is swimming in the sea on her lovely holiday? Enjoy the rest of your holiday, Sam. Thank you for listening. I like the idea. Technology as such. You can take your favorite radio programs with you when you go away. James is in Plymouth. James, question or answer? Hello, James. It's James and I've got a question. Please, mate. Carry on. Right. I was listening to the news this week and there was some unsavory character was getting charged with murder and they said that Joe Bloggs, for instance, has appeared in court to confirm his name and address. Yes, but they've carted him all the way off to court. I mean, all she said is my name and me address. Well, surely they know all his name and address before he gets there. What's the point? I don't. I just don't get it. What do they do that for? What? You know what I mean. I've never thought about this before, you know. So you go all the way to court. What's your name? Joe Bloggs. Where do you live? Wherever. And then off. They cart you off again. Then you come back six months later for a trial, don't you? I just don't understand why it seems to me a waste of my time and money. Because the police know your name and address. Because they. They've interviewed you. I suppose you have to. You have to agree. You have to. You have to agree that it's your name and address. Do you. I mean, to make sure it's not a case of mistaken identity or something like that. I don't know, but just bring the judge up and say, no, I don't. I think. I think the legal system is you can't take the police's word. I would have thought, as a defendant, you have the right to. I don't know, is the answer, the short answer. So, I mean, are we confident that this is what happens? I've read similar accounts and it does seem that they just turn up in the first instance, at the very beginning of a trial. They confirm their name and address and then they go away again and the trial hasn't even started. Yeah. And then I've heard. I've heard it worded other ways where he's gone. He only spoke to confirm his name and address and then off he. Yeah, I don't. I mean, I'm not confused about why they have to confirm their name and address. But the confusion you're expressing, I think, comes from the. Is more built upon the question of if that's all that happens. Why did they bother going to court that day? Yeah, you know. Yeah, okay. No, I get that. I just don't know that it is all that happens. He might only confirm his name and address, but then the judge goes through the terms, he addresses the jury, does lots of other things that don't involve the defendant. No, we need a lawyer. We need somebody that knows, don't we? We do. We don't. You're not wrong. We. James's have not got a clue in this context. James, let's fight. We need a lawyer. I thought. I thought I was going to get slaughtered for a stupid question. Well, you still might, mate. You still might. But I don't know that you'll be here by the time that emerges, if indeed it does. So we need. We need a lawyer or a police officer, a judge or a serial criminal. Any of those would work. Yeah. All right, let's see what we can do. There you go. The challenge has been laid down. What was that business in court when you just give your name and address and apparently nothing else? What's the point of you even being there? 034-56-0609 Alan is in Ashford. Alan. Question or answer? Here's an answer. Go on. It's an answer to the water and the temperature. Hot pockets, mate. Hot pockets. If you remember rightly, we're going back a little while you're diving. Geezer that phoned up about the same thing a little while ago. Yeah, don't say that. It makes it sound like we haven't got any fresh ideas. Yes, I do. I do remember, though, your diving gave us a scuba diver and they are called thermoclines. Thermoclines. The same sort of thing as Jesus pockets, you know, warm pockets of air when they're flying. It's just. It's underwater instead. And what causes it? What heats the water up? It's usually the sun. And then the movement of the water just makes it into pockets where they. Where it can't, you know, different. There may be different thicknesses of water and some of it will be. Some of it will be hot springs underwater as well. Yeah, but that's. That's what they're actually. Could you get them in lakes mainly a lot of the time as well? Oh, yeah. But you do get pockets of them in the sea as well, because water is not. Water is not a complete. I mean, it's about the conduction of heat, isn't it? And water conducts heat, one's thicker than the other, it won't conduct. It and all water, where it is, whether it's fed by a spring or from the sea, it has slightly different characteristics because I will be a lot salty or a lot fresher, and the two can't mix straight away, so you end up with that slight difference in temperature causing thermoclines. I'm gonna give you your second round of applause, aren't I? Well, I know I was gonna come to this. I don't know whether I deserve them asking the same question, answering the same question twice. I think. I think your honesty. But your honesty pushes you over the line, though, doesn't it? Well, you know, you made. You declared your honor. I like it a lot. I just gave Alan a round of applause. You're still diving, Alan? I am, yes. Yeah. Just come back from Mexico. Oh, did you? $10 out there. And I'm off to Malta in end of October for a week's diving out there. Were you in the sea mostly in Mexico, or did you go in any of the cenotes? We did a couple of cenotes. We didn't dive them, but mainly in the sea. Well, you just swam the cenotes. Yeah. Just ran the cenotes. Yeah. They're amazing. They are absolutely thermoclines in there and all. Do you really. Do you know what really hacks me off one of the worst? There's so many things about getting old that are annoying, but I lost my nerve when I was a kid. I loved underground stuff and tunneling and all that sort of thing. And the cenotes. And even say, when I was a kid, when I got married, I went to Mexico for my honeymoon. 28 and I couldn't wait. I was nearly going to learn diving to go down one. But since I became a dad, I don't do stuff like that. You should learn. It's the first time. I know I should. It has got its dangers that go with it, but you can't talk properly by the right people and just do what you are taught, then you should be fine. There you go. Listen to Alan. You can't go wrong. Round of applause. He had his round of applause. I've already had to give him another one. Whatever you do. 12:30 now is the time. And Simon Conway is here with the headlines. The education secretary, Justice James O'Brien, on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve is the time. If you have a question that needs an answer, there are now a couple of phone lines. Free zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you have a question in need of an answer. 33 minutes after twelve. You know the numbers, so there's no excuse not to join in. What's still waiting for an answer? I'm losing my ability to keep track of mystery hour. I don't know what that's symptomatic of, but I'm not sure I like it. Alex is in print and on sea. Alex, question or answer? Hello, James. There's a question. Go on. With a mystery. That's been probably me my entire business, mate. I can't make out a word you're saying. I'm just going to try and improve that phone line and we'll come back to you imminently, I promise. Samuel is. Oh, no, he's not. Hang on. Who's coming up next? Dan is in Bromley. Dan, question or answer? Hi, James. I think it's an answer, hopefully, to the mystery mister and master. Let's start again. You've got to. We've got to start with confidence. None of this hopefully business. None of this sort of I'm. Are you good? You listen to the show. You know what false confidence sounds like, Dan. Now, Dan is in Bromley. Question or answer, Dan. It's an answer. Jones. Good man. To mister and master. Oh, yes, right. People used to call masters all the time. Gentlemen used to call master all the time, but they developed into mister and apparently kept master on for people that were still coming of age up until about the age of 18. Yes, and that was back in around about the 19th century. So mister. Mister took from master. Yeah, but master was kept on for youngsters up until about the age of 18. But. But again. But what? Why then do we call, like, Master bakers and Master chef and master sweep and master builder? That was. That was the real question. All right, I'm in trouble, then. Well, only because you sounded so confident at the outset, though. Well, that was the story behind how I knew that was quite interested in. Go on, then. No, I was. When I was a private school, I. We used to have to call the teachers, obviously, mister. Yeah, and they used to call us master. I was a bit cheeky one day. Said, why can't I be called master, mister? And I got detention for it. I got made to try and find out the answer to my own question. That's what you found out. There you go. There's a sign of an educational punishment serving a constructive purpose. It was. It doesn't, however. And you. A round of applause. It's a satisfaction of the knowledge. Thank you, Dan. Sorry, mate. It should be absolutely clear on this. Why do we use the same word to describe young men that we use to describe older men with particular expertise. Master. So it comes from the latin meaning master. As an in charge of something, you've mastered an art. That's why you become a master. But why then does it apply? Maybe it's just a coincidence and it's just two words. The same word, meaning two completely different things. There's a word for that. Samuel's in Tottenham. Samuel. Question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. I was wondering why or. No, actually not why. Whether moths eat the fur of living animals. What? Whether moths would eat the fur of an animal that was alive. Why are you thinking? Why? Why. Why are you wondering this? Just because I've got a lot of moths in my house at the moment and I was. I was just. I've got cats as well. So. Yeah, I was just wondering if. If they're in any danger, the kick from the moth, are your cats in it? Serious danger. But just whether. Whether they. They might lose any fur, potentially. Do they have any bald patches or any. I mean, is there any evidence that. Is anything informed your fears, or are they just sort of one of them slightly molts? Somewhat, yeah, but she does that anyway. Yeah, yeah, but it's become more apparent. But I don't know if it's. I don't spend much time with them, so I. Isn't it. Isn't it the grubs that eat stuff? Isn't it the actual larvae that eat things rather than the moths themselves? Oh, it's the. Before. They're. They've become moths? It's. I think so. Oh. But so would they be able to grow in cat fur or in any animal fur? You can get carpet moths. They're a nightmare. But obviously carpets are not living organisms. No, no. I mean, I'm a little bit humbled that you've chosen mystery out to ask this question, Samuel. It's a conundrum of playing on my mind. Well, clear. I mean, obviously, if you love your cats, the last thing you want to happen is to sort of leave them exposed to the possibility of having all their fur eaten by moth larvae. This is a serious issue. I don't think so, but I can't claim any expertise or definitive knowledge in this area, in this field. So I shall leave it on the board, just to be clear. Can moths or their larvae. We'll add that, will we? For the purposes of. Yes. Yeah. Can moths or their larvae eat the fur of live mammals? Yeah, because they can eat wool. They. They. So I imagine. I want to say sheep will like when the wool is. They do. I think you can have problems with sheep if they're not shorn regularly, that the parasites get involved, but whether or not they're eating the. Well, but they can eat wool because that would be a carpet moth, wouldn't it? Okay, well, that's. I mean, we zone in on exactly what it is we're asking. Are there any moths or moth larvae that can eat the fur of live animals? Okay, perfect. Well, I hope so. I mean, crikey. I want to put your mind at rest. 1238 is the time. Can we help Samuel? Alex is in for intern on sea. Alex, let's have another go. Hi, James. Sorry about that. Can you hear me all right? Loud and clear. That's lovely. Fantastic. I'm a long time listener. Love your show. Thank you, mate. Thank you for having me on. You're welcome. I wonder if you can help solve a long time mystery for me. I've got dark hair on my head. I've got brown hair. I've got dark hair, before you ask, all over my body, but on my beard, I've got red hair. Bright red hair, actually. Bright red? Yeah. I'm not exaggerating. It looks like I could be bleeding from my face. It's super bright. Really? Yeah, super bright. My wife used to tell me when I was in my teens that she said it was just going through puberty, but that must have happened a long time ago, so now there's no excuse. And do you ever grow it? Did you ever grow it out? I go to a certain point, and then the redness is just too bright, and people think that I've dyed my hair on my head. You know, it's not very often. I shouldn't. I don't know if I should say this, but I much prefer radio to television. It's not very often that I wish we were doing something on television when we're actually doing on the radio, because everyone listening wants to see some pictures now. They don't. I mean. I mean, really, really, really red. No, but it's not just me. I see it all. I do see it often. No, it's. My late father tried to grow a moustache in the 1960s, and it came out ginger and he had black hair. Exactly. What's going on? I don't know. It's a great question. I mean, why would we presume that the pigmentation in the chin area would be the same as the pigmentation on the top of the hair? Well, I would have. I would have thought why? Why? They're not matched. But then the rest of the body is all the same as the top, the collar and the cuffs, as it were. All of it? Yeah, just the beard comes out a bit rogue, a bit rouge. Very, very much like. As if it's from someone else's face. Yeah. Okay. I mean, just trying to think what the qualification we need would be to answer that question. I was. I was thinking maybe someone that works with follicles. Like a follicle? Just a follicle. Just something that exists. Yeah. It might mean we need some sort of follicular research of some kind to be undertaken. Exactly, exactly. Trichologist. A follicologist. I tell you what. Foliclogists and master bakers. We're really follicologists and master bakers. We're really sailing close to the wind today. Can't come back on again. Although this isn't really his field of expertise. Let's find out. I mean, I love it, actually. Why does Alex's. Why is Alex's beard bright red? Well, all the other hair on his body, since you asked, is brown. Zero 8345-606-0973 and can moths eat fur? Gary's in Morden. Gary, question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please. Go on, mate. Me and my mate, we both got a bit of a belly on us and it's through, obviously, enjoying our drink and eating and. But mine, I can do a mean truffle shuffle and I can literally, it goes all over the shop, really jelly. So when you stop, right, when you go for a bit of a jog, you stop running and your body carries on moving for a couple of minutes afterwards. Yeah, I love it. Yeah, that's right, yeah. And he is solid. I mean, if you put a punch it, you break your own, really. And it's still got a pawn. So you've both got a similar volume, but one of you is solid and one of you is not. He's really wobbly. Yeah. And I just wondered, why does that happen? You know, we both like a beer, both like our food, but his fat is solid and mine is just all over the shop. Is there any. I mean, any difference in diet? Do you mostly eat and drink the sun? Do you drink similar amounts of ale and that sort of thing? But it's not just us. If you used to go around and look at other people's weights. Some people do have. I've always. Yeah, you got a bit of a belly. What's your like, actually? I mean, I don't know. When's the last time you saw me cheeky? Beggar on the telly the other day. I'm looking sharp at the moment, Gary. I'm seriously, I'm about a stone and a half lighter than I was a couple of years ago. But as it happens, I'm a wobbler. Since you asked. I'm only joking. I'm a wobbler. Actually, I took the youngest to see Kitimin Darius the other week. She'd been naughty. No, I didn't. I was trying to get her into football and we had a penalty at RN, so all the lads behind the goal were trying to put off the penalty taker and there were some wobblers there. I tell you what, my eight year old has not laughed so much. All these fellas wobbling their bellies and grabbing their little man boobs and trying to put off the bloke from Chorley taking the penalty. It was wonderful to see, but your mate would have been no use at all with his sort of medicine ball, solid belly in that car. I don't know. It's a really nice question. Let's try and find out. I just hope the answer is not involving medical bad news for either of you. Yeah, that's the fear. Right, so why has Gary got a wobbler? Well, his friend is rock hard. Zero. 345-606-0973 Alex is in Richmond. Alex, question or answer? Hello, James. And answer. Carry on, Alex. It's the question about the guy coming to court and then going away again. The question is actually wrong. The question is wrong. He doesn't just go to court and go away again. No, he confirms his name and address and then he is remanded either in custody or on bail. And it's the remand that's the important bit, because that gives the authorities judicial power to detain him. The police have only got power to detain under certain circumstances and for certain lengths of time. The magistrate can detain him and then remand him for trial or for a reappearance. And that makes his detention lawful. And he has to be there for that because her Baez corpus. Is that relevant in this context? No. There have been cases where serious risk prisoners have been remanded in their absence through video link, people at places like Belmarsh. But it's quite unusual. Most prisoners, certainly on a first appearance at court, are remanded at the court. On a second or subsequent appearance, they may be remanded or sent for trial or whatever by the magistrate and then a date is put on it. I like it. It's habeas corpus. Isn't it the requirement that the person is brought into court? No, no, habeas corpus is totally different thing. Habeas corpus is the power to. It's an order from the court to produce. Yes, produce the body. Yeah, absolutely. So, no, you're quite right. Your qualifications? Reminders, Alex. I'm a former policeman, for my sins. Former police officer. Round of applause. Thank you very much. So they do provide their name and address back to James, who asked the original question, but as we wondered whether that would be the case. That's not all that goes on. There's other stuff and you can't be remanded. The legal process can't be kicked along the road if you're not there. Unless, as in the exceptional circumstances, Alex mentioned that they do it from a video link or in your absence, I guess, from somewhere like Belmarsh. 1245 is the time. Tom Watts is here with your travel. Thanks, James. Good afternoon. In west London. LBC 1248 is the time. Tummies, bellies, beards and moths currently in need of answers. Why is Gary's belly flabby while his mate's bellies not? They're equally sized bellies, one solid as a rock and the other one soft, wobbly, welcoming? Why does Alex's beard grow bright red while the rest of the hair on his body, since you asked, including downstairs and up, is brown? Can moths eat the fur of live animals? Samuel needs to know he's worried about his cats. And master. Mister. Mister. Master. Why. Why do we use the same word, master? To describe young men with no maturity and to describe old men with proven expertise. As in master builder. Natalie's in Hadlow. Natalie, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question, please. Great stuff. Thanks, Natalie. That's all right, actually, from my six year old daughter, but she's tall at the minute, so. Yeah. I hope she had the right uniform on. Yes, she did. Yeah. She wants to know why the king of hearts is the only king that doesn't have a mustache. As in, is there any particular reason why that one is the one that doesn't? Well, he's shaved. Yeah, of course. Yeah. And the other three haven't. I mean, what sort of a parent are you? Why can't you answer these questions yourself? I know exactly. You know what it's like playing kids isn't. And I come up with the most random question. I love that one. There must be. There might be a historical reason. There is quite a lot of folklore attached to playing cards. I can never quite remember what it all is, but we'll try and find out. Is the king is definitely true. Have you checked more than one pack of cards, Natalie? Yes, I have my nan specifically to check her packet and her pack was the same. So. Tash free. Tash free. King of hearts. Yes. And the other three, spades, clubs, diamonds, all got tashes. Oh, yeah. Them free have the king of hearts hasn't. And I wonder if it's particularly a reason why particular, like King hasn't got one. Yeah, I don't know. I shall find out. I like that question. And we've got ten minutes. Come on, don't let us down. Don't let down. Natalie. Six year old Kelly is in Cleveland. Kelly, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's about the wobbly belly and the hard belly. Yeah, I quite like this. I like it a lot, actually. Well, it's because the, the soft belly is actually a lot healthier and it's where the fat is on the surface, so you can probably grab hold of that and wobble it around love handles, which shows it's just under the skin. Right. The other belly is all through, is the organs and it's inside. Dangerous. Oh, no. I said, I hope it's not going to be bad medical news for anyone. It's bad news for Gary's mate, this. Yeah, sorry. So does that mean he's been fatter for longer? I don't know about that. I think it's just how different people lay down facts. So this could just be a genetic inheritance. Yeah, that would make sense as well, actually, wouldn't it? Because sort of leads him. What are your qualifications, Kelly, just to be clear? Well, it's just something that I studied myself because I had a fat belly and I wondered why it was wobbling around and. And my friend had a similar situation with a friend who had a hard belly and I discovered that the soft one was the healthier. It was actually good news. I like this. I mean it. I just need to get the round of applause. Can you insert any fantasy words into this? Did you learn any fancy words when you, when you were reading it? I did learn the word visceral. Oh, go on. Well, how does that apply here? It's visceral fat, which means that's the medical term for saying it's round your organs. Round your organs, eh? I think that's done you a round of applause, Kelly. Thank you. Great stuff. I like it. And are you still wobbling? No, no longer wobbling. Not because it's not because all your fats turned visceral, but because you've got rid of all your fat. Got rid of it. Great work, Gary's mate. I feel sorry for now. It always gets a bit awkward when we have these sort of questions, especially when I put my foot in it by saying, I hope it's not bad medical news for anyone. I don't know how bad it is, but it's better to be flob. What's the word? But it's not flabby. Yeah, it is flab. Flabby. You know, flabby. You think of being wobbly. I mean, walking a tightrope today with some of the language we've been employing. Steve's in Stanmore. Steve, question or answer? Answer. Legal lawful thing. It's to do with legal lawful. But the mister and master. Oh, yes, there is Legalese and there is common law, Magna Carta. And in Legalese, it's a whole different language. Now, if you notice, we have police officers, we have environmental officers. That's because they're attempting to operate in maritime law, the law of the sea. And when we're born, we are given a birth certificate, which is normally uppercase, first name, last name, or sometimes uppercase all the way through. Now, that's the corporation that is referred to, or the corpseration, as I call it, when we come through our mother's waters and the delivery is informed to the local authority. Same as the ship. When it comes into birth, it's a similar word, but slightly different spelling. And in Legalese, once we get to the age of seven, if we don't tell them we're still here, then we're considered lost at sea. So in a court, a judge will try and. Or a magistrate will try and call you. Are you first name, last name? So the typical response would be no, but I'm the authorized benefit. Which question are you answering at the moment? The difference between mister and master and how it come about? Because legalese. I thought it sounded like you were asking the one about why you get asked your name and address in court. No, no, no. It's all related to it, because they. Most of the authorities attempt to operate in maritime law, whereas in fact, this country we operate under. So, I mean, I'm sure it's my fault, Steve. I just. It's quite, you know, quite late in the program now, but I haven't got a. Scooby Doo, what you're talking about. Let's try it again. Okay. Why do we use the same word to describe a young male that we use to describe an old male with an expertise that is slightly different. Well, that's the only question I want an answer to, mate. Well, one is legalese and one is English. Legalese is a different language. When do I. When do I move from master to mister? At what point do I move from master to mister? Normally at the age of seven, because that's when we are considered lost at sea. No, but I know I only became a master at about the age of seven. Did you? That's when you get sent all the letters, Master James O'Brien off my granddad and stuff like that. Yes. Yeah. When? Well, a lot of people maintain the master as opposed to mister, because on a ship, Mister Christian set sail. Mister Steve, it's perfectly possible that I have got the wrong end of the stick, but I think however long this conversation continues for, I'm never going to get the right end. But thank you so much for your time. Fraser is in Glasgow. Fraser, question or answer? Question. Carry on. I'd like to know if I'm swimming in the sea and lightning strikes, how far away I need to be from the lightning, not to be electrocuted. Okay, yeah. Well, how long we got now? Three minutes. So you're in the sea, you see a bolt of lightning hit the sea, how far away do you need to be? Not today. What, not to die or not to. Not to be. Not to feel it, not to be. To be utterly, utterly putting the pressure on here. Two minutes left to get an answer to that one. And why do you want to know? I mean, there's not a great deal you can do about it unless you're an incredibly fast swimmer. Just curious, what are you going to do with the information? Yeah, yeah. Just was walking along the street and thought about it. Love it. That's the kind of thing I think about when I'm walking along the street as well, so I never get anything done. Fraser, I like it a lot. Well, good work. How far away from a lightning strike underwater in the water, do you have to be to be out of reach of the. Of the, of the impact or the electricity? What have we done? We've done the belly. Oh, no, we've got a steward inquiry on the belly. Answer. I need an answer to the question of whether or not moths eat the fur of live mammals. All right, and then I've got a couple of others as well. But remember before that, we're going to run out of time. Whether you're a landlord, a tenant or a homeowner. Clive Bull and his expert guests are here tonight from nine to answer your questions on LBC's property hour. And right now you could win an Apple iPhone six S, an Apple Watch sport and a monster portable battery pack, thanks to direct line landlord insurance. Find out more about their de facto five star rated insurance by searching online for direct line landlord. For your chance to win and to download the property hour podcast, go to LBC dot co dot UK. Jenna is in Solihull. Jenna, question or answer? Answer quickly. That's me being not rude. I have the answer to the question about the king of hearts. Why doesn't he have a moustache? He was originally based on Charles VII from France who had no moustache qualifications. How do you know? I'd have to do a project on the. On the cards back in school. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Jenna. Bit of a guy. Jail free card, that one, isn't it? I did a project on it when I was at school. Good work, though. And Ellie's in Tower Hamlets. Any question or answer? Mate. Go on, mate. Can you look out, there's a. There's a forklift trough behind you. You're gonna get. You gonna get. Sorry, I mean, I'm in a warehouse trying to hunt at the moment. Sorry, you're hunting down mice? In a way. So you are, you are a pest control expert, clearly. I am, yeah. Talk to me about moths. Well, basically they lay their eggs where there's a higher food, food source. So like, keratin is what they eat. So like that gentleman said, he's got two cats, so obviously he's going to get mossed if he doesn't hoover the Wolflord junctions around his house. Yeah, they're molten, the hair's falling down and that's what moths feed. Generally they won't lay their eggs on a moving animal because it will just fall off. And then obviously when it hatches into a little larvae, there's no food source and they'll die. So no, they won't eat from a live animal, but they will eat and feed from a dead animal. So not hoovering up his wall floor junctions is probably contributing to the presence of moths in his gaffe. Keratin, which is fur, wool, even human hair, which contains keratin, that's what they feed on. So if the gentleman hoovers his wolf or junctions thoroughly on a weekly basis, but he must throw the bag away because obviously the eggs might still hatch in the hoover and come out that. Mate, that is first class. What's the name of your company? Safeguard pest control. There you go. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Grant. Good luck with the mice. Ellie. Good luck with the mice. Don't need luck. I'm gonna win the war. Don't worry. That's right. Reminds me of my mate Ricky. He's a pest control expert as well. And some of his war stories make hair fall out. That's my excuse. Anyway. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from ten. Sheila Fogarty is here. Thank you, James. From three Madonna and child. After a bitter and public row over who they're sort of son lives with, Madonna and Guy Ritchie have agreed he will live with his father in London. What is it like being caught between your warring parents?