Why is he called 007 - 4 Jun 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 Tweet Text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1204 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we're about to embark upon our weekly journey into the temple. Temporarily unknown. I say temporarily because by 01:00 today it will be known and you will know more than you. Now, that's my guarantee. I can't promise you'll be grateful for the information or that it will prove to be of any constructive use whatsoever in the rest of your natural life, but it will at least be more knowledge than you've got now. It sort of works a bit like those newspaper columns, which you are almost certainly familiar with, where someone writes in on a Monday and says, why do we do that? What's the origin of that? Where does that come from? If this happened, what would happen next? And what, where? Why, when, whither, what, wherefore went? And then a week later, someone else writes in with the answer. This is altogether more immediate. This is the originally interactive. So I've got phone lines free. I told you last week, we're getting so popular now that new people ringing in, and we're very grateful and in no way am I seeking to discourage you, but it does mean that we have an awful lot of repetition or people who haven't quite got the hang of the no dullness rule. And that means the best time to hit redial is in the first 20 minutes of mystery hour, because that is the time when we're politely turning away the most number of people. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call if you've got a question that isn't boring. And I know that's a bit unkind but isn't repetitious either. And I know that you won't know that if you haven't been listening for ages, but just trust us. And trust me, when you hear me say the number, it means I've got phone lines free. That's it, really. If you hear someone else ask a question to which you know the answer, then ring in again. Zero 345-606-0973 and if it is adjudged to be accurate and your qualifications sound kosher, qualifications, by the way, aren't highfalutin. You could have just seen it on telly last week. You might be an academic, you might be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, who is our most prolific contributor. Or you might just be some fellow who saw it on the telly last night, which is equally valid. Qualifications are a movable feast. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call. If you've got a question. Hit the numbers now. You will get through. We'll start with Matthew, who's in Ashford. Matthew, what's your question? Hi, James. Good afternoon. I was with a friend the other day, an opera, and my friend is polish, and I used the phrase punter. And when she said, what's a punter? I hadn't. I found it difficult to explain to her what a punter was or where the. Where the phrase punter comes from. You tend to like your derivation, so at least one derivation a week, and I wondered if that. I love it when callers. Callers explain the rules to other listeners and bypass me, leave me out of the loop completely. The word punt, well, in the context of a customer, you were using it rather than someone laying a wager. The phrase that I used to my friend was. I said, well, it's like a customer, or it's like an audience member. But I couldn't really explain what a punter really was or why a punter was called a punter. No, I mean, because I wonder what came first. I think probably first it was someone who's placed a bet, you know, punter having a bet, and then it just becomes someone who's paid money. A customer of any description. But why the world punt? Punter? Yeah, you get punts in rugby. Something to do with boats. That was it, isn't it? It's rugby, rugby and boating. Punter. Why are customers called punters? I love that question. What opera was it? It was a dress rehearsal for Fiddler on the roof at Grange park, down at Winchester. Was it any good? It's fantastic. It's got brin Turtle in it and he's absolutely incredible. Playing the top hole role, presumably. Indeed, yeah. I'd quite like to see that brilliant life you lead. Well, I don't know. It's a job. I play the violin for a living, so. Oh, you, you're in it. Yeah, I'm playing in the pit. Well, things will get better, Matthew. Just hang in there. It's 1208. You're listening to Josephine on LBC. Mark's in Walthamstow. Mark. Question or answer a question, James. Yes. Acid. Acid. Where did it get acid from? All these horrible sulfuric and nitric acids? Where does it come from? What? Where does it come from all this acid? How's it manufactured? Well, it's a chemical reaction like any. It's like asking where water comes from. The water comes from the rain and the oceans. Well, acid comes from a bottle. Oh, a. Well, I don't know that it comes out of wells much, Mark. No, no, but where does it come from? At the rocks? Or how do they make it, all this horrible stuff? It's very corrosive, isn't it? What? It's very corrosive and it eats through things. So how do they make it in the first place? Did you go to school? Well, a special school. Did they do chemistry? No, because we want to make explosives all the time. Right. Well, I think that involves acid. I don't know how to answer the question because, I mean, there's no. You know vinegar is an acid, don't you? And lemon. And lemon juice, where comes out of lemons. That's easy, isn't it? Where does sulfuric acid come from? Well, h two. So, four. It's a combination of sulfur, hydrogen and oxygen that have been combined chemically to create sulfuric acid or hydrochloric acid, in the case of hcl. Come from glasses then, do they? Well, no, because you just told me some of them come from lemons. Oh, citric acid does. Yes. Well, thought of. You can also buy it in boots. Oh, that's what I go to get. Boots then. All right. I don't know if I've misunderstood you or if you kind of somehow managed to misunderstand yourself, which would be a remarkable achievement. If somebody. Thousands of gallons of sulfuric acid, how is it made? Okay. How do you make sulfuric acid? I don't know if. Are we allowed to do that on the radio? I mean, people might get the wrong idea. We might be encouraging all manner of foul practices. Gary's in chipstead. Gary, question or answer? Good afternoon. I have a question. My question is. My question is, what determines people to be left or right handed, and why does that differ during different activities? For example, when my friend writes, he writes right handed, but yet when he plays golf or snooker, he plays left handed. Well, that. That's just him. I mean, in terms of what. It's a genetic predisposition to be left handed or right handed. It's like the color of your eyes. It's just determined by your DNA. So why does that differ between so many different people? Why do we have different colored eyes? Are you sure it's genetic? I don't know if it was a physiological thing. No, it's genetic because they used to try and train kids out of it in victorian times. They used to strap their hand behind them. It's just the way you're born. It's also hereditary. It gets passed down through one of the family lines. I forget which. Oh, right, okay. I don't want to give you a round of applause that easy, but you sound to have answered my question already. That's what I'm here for, Gary. I thought that was the other callers that did that. Well, I mean, they're welcome to, but with some questions, it would be sort of almost impossible not to answer them. Clearly one of them. Well, let's find out. Thank you very much. Oh, no, you were right. Yeah, there you go. Professor Hal is here. Can you sort out that acid question so that I don't have to? Yeah, it's a bit of a gloomy question, actually, because it's. And it's not quite out there, is it? But anyway, to answer specifically the caller's question, to make sulfuric acid, you would dissolve sulfur dioxide in water. So two plus h two o is h two, so four. And where do I get sulfur dioxide from? British oxygen corporation. You can get it from the air. You can just burn sulfur, which is brimstone, which you can dig out of the ground. You burn it in oxygen and it creates sulfur dioxide. I mean, that's the cause of acid rain, isn't it? Oh, yeah, of course. So, yeah, I mean, catch rain, because that's. Acid rain is sulfur dioxide dissolved in water, ergo, h two, so four. Yes. Sulfuric acid. Yeah. A disappointingly short answer this week. Oh, okay. What can you do? It's 30 minutes after twelve. Well done, Professor Hal. Round of applause for Professor Hal. Professor Halley is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can get your own question on the board. Or answer. I like the one about punters, and we've done the left and right handed one, so you get an idea of how it works. Now hit the numbers. Now you will get through. Who, why, what, where, when, what is the simple question that you need an answer? Well, when I say simple, not perhaps as simple as one of the ones that we've had so far, but simple enough. The question you desperately need an answer to. The who, the why, the what, the where, the when, the whither or the wherefore. Linda is in Surrey. Linda, question or answer? It's a question some years ago, used to be able to buy tomato oil. Tomato olive oil in all the shops. It's brilliant for doing a cookery with, but I have looked absolutely everywhere. For some reason, you don't have it anymore. I'd like to know why. Olive oil with tomatoes in it? Yeah, you could buy the olive oil and you have different things like lemon or garlic in your olive oil. Have you googled it? Because, I mean, you can buy it. You can buy it in my local budgens. In your local budge with sun dried tomatoes. Sun dried tomatoes in olive oil. Well, that's about the only place, because I've looked absolutely everywhere for it and you can't get it. And I just wondered, maybe there was some sort of something gone wrong with the tomatoes and they could do the olive oil with it. That's my question. Why? Well, you can get it, you can get it. I think flavored oils were more popular, weren't they, a few years ago? They were kind of a little bit gastro puppy and they're probably a little bit less popular than they are now. But have you actually looked online? No, I haven't. Okay. Because, I mean, generally speaking, if you can't find something in the shops anymore, the first. Well, first thing I do is see whether it's for sale somewhere else. But I can buy in my local bodgems. I'll get you some, Linda, and stick it in the post. It's 1215. This is LBC. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is underway. If you have a question that needs an answer, this could be your last opportunity to get it. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Currently looking for the origins of the word punter. I'm getting some answers that involve prostitution and rhyming slang. But rhyming slang is never an answer to a derivation question. If you're trying to find out where a word comes from, the fact that it has rhyme slang, it isn't helpful at all, is it? Because, I mean, you've got to have the word before you can find something that rhymes with it and anything else you've got. We'll get it on the board as well. Let's go to Wimbledon. Jan's in Wimbledon. Question or answer, Jan. It's a question, Jane. Yes. And my question is, why do they call heavy industrial machines plant, like diggers, cranes, things like that? Why do they call it plant when plant is obviously a tree or a flower? What about sewage plant? Oh, yeah. I've never really. That never spun to mind. Yeah, industrial plant yes. I mean, there's a lot. We use the word plant in lots of different sort of contexts. Yeah, we do. Now. Now I think of it. We do. Yeah. Doesn't. Doesn't have to be garden based. But why we plant, because. I don't know, it's just a. Maybe we need someone who knows. Can't we work it out between us? Do you think we could? I don't know. What do you think? Well, I haven't thought that much deeply about it. I just thought about the heavy cranes and stuff. I didn't really think about industrial plant. Why is it. Why is it called plant? Okay. I thought sewage plant was a brilliant intervention, but it's not actually an answer to the question, is it? No. No, it's not. All right, you're on. I'll try and find out. Thank. Thank you. Jan Laurina is in Hillingdon. Larina. Question or answer? Question. Okay. I've got two little boys, one who's approaching four, the other one who is seven months. Both of them, unfortunately, developed cradle cap when they were quite small. My seven month old, he's over the cradle cap now, but he had it from about five or six weeks and he. Now he's got another rash on his chest and he. It's not the medical hour. You know that, don't you? Sorry, sorry, sorry. I'm going on a bit. Sorry. I know you can go on as long as you want. I just. I thought you might have turned up to the wrong hour. This is mystery. I'm not. Medical hour. Don't, don't, don't worry. It's only me. Okay. And anyway, the other day, my seven month old was scratching his chest and my husband said to me, and I've thought about this question about myself, how do babies know how to scratch? How do they know that if they scratch an itch, it relieves the itch? How do you. How do you know that it does? Because I don't know. Because I know if I lift my hand and put it on my head or whatever. Yeah. That I can. But how does a little six week old baby. But how do you know that it. That it works? Because I'm an adult. But how do you know? I don't know how I know. Well, why are you asking about the baby then? Well, that's. That's a good point, actually. I never. I never thought about. How do we know? I said, how does anybody know then? How. Let's have a think, shall we? Okay. All right. Imagine you were really itchy. Yeah. Yeah. And then you scratched it and then you felt better. Okay, what would you do next time you had an itch? I'd scratch it. So is it that maybe they did it once and it worked? So they keep doing it. Even a little baby at five or six weeks old, like, well, I mean, how does a baby know how to cry when it's hungry? To me that to me a cry is more of a impulse. It just kind of happens. Whereas what's in it? A scratch. You have to actually lift your arm up and put it on your head. Yeah. So I've got something itchy on me, I'm going to touch it. Oh, it's not as itchy anymore. Yeah, but I know that by touching something you can feel it and I don't know, do babies know that? But if they touch something, they can. I don't know. That was my question. Anyway, I thought it was a good one because I still don't really know the answer. Well, like crying seems very involuntary. You just let it out or if it seems very. So how does a baby know to scratch an itch? The same. The same way you do, because you did it once and then you do it again. Yeah, yeah. Mmm. Okay, what do you think being a baby's like? How do they know to eat when they're hungry? I don't know. They get stomach cramps, then they eat something and they feel better. So next time they feel hungry, what do they do? My baby did it once and he thought, oh, this is good. So he did it again. Yeah. And that is humanity. There. Right there. Oh, that was nice. I'll do it again. Okay, do you get a round of applause then? Well, I almost. How can I put this politely? I almost feel I haven't done enough to deserve one. Yes, I feel that as well. No, no, but for very different reasons from why you feel that as well, Lorena. I feel I don't really deserve a round of applause because it was so easy. You feel I don't really deserve a round of applause because somewhere in your brain you don't think I've answered your question. Yeah, that's true. Yeah, but you're wrong about that. Am I? Oh, God, yeah. Oh, look, well, I. I don't want you to go away unsatisfied, Lorena. Well, maybe somebody will ring up. No, no, no, they won't. There's what would be an answer that would constitute an alternative to what I've said. Why does my baby scratch when he's got an itch and you want someone to. Well, I don't know, because he's got a secret message from the stars or something like that. I mean, what other answer can there possibly be? I don't know. I don't know. I thought. I don't know, I thought it was a good question because I thought. I mean, my husband mentioned it, but I thought independently. Don't start blaming your husband for this, Lorena. I'm just saying that, you know, I thought it was a good question, but obviously not. Well, now I feel bad. Now I feel. No, now I feel. Just to add, James is the second time I rang you when I've been on maternity leave and this is the second time that you've made me sort of feel a bit. Sort of like. Well, you must be baby brain then, mustn't it? What was the last question? What was the last time I made you feel bad for asking a question on? It was about making money during the Olympics. And then after I came off. It was a long time ago. It was three years ago. Well, I know that it was 2012. It was about making money during the Olympics. And when I came off the phone, I don't know, fan you kind of like. I don't know, used me as the butt of your jokes. Bought me. Yeah. Mentioning that how I. How much money I'd made when actually I hadn't really made a lot. I don't know what to say. Lorena. You don't have to say anything. It's fine. I do have to say something. I'm here till 01:00. That's all right, you answered the question. You got your round of applause. But now I feel soiled. I feel, like, really bad. I feel like you've chugged me. I'm fine. It's just I know that you know that my baby obviously did it once because he's really clever. And then he realized, oh, that feels good. And he did it again. It's involuntary. You get an itch, you reach for it, and then it's like an impulse, it's like a reflex. It would be like you'd be almost impossible not to imagine lying there, not touching an itch. And then the baby touches it, realises it feels better next time. It's got an itch. It's got. I still feel rotten. I feel rotten now. I'm Loreena, that's all. No, let me give you a round of applause. Okay. There you go. Thank you. How was that? Are we cool? I didn't even answer a question. I know. I've never done that before. That's how special you are to me. Thank you. Thank you. Rob's in Kingston. Rob, question or answer? It's a question, James, that I want confirming. The question is, how did James Vaughn get his zero zero seven prefix? Now, I was watching the golf on tv several years ago when it was played at Sandwich in Kent. And Peter Alice was commenting during one of the quieter moments and he stated that Ian Fleming used to live in St Margaret's Bay. And while he was writing the James Bond books, he used to travel to Canterbury and drinking the coffee shops there. And the bus he got was the zero zero seven from St Margaret's Bay to Kent to Canterbury. So I just wonder if anybody confirm it, if it's true or. Peter Alice said that on the telly. Yeah, he said on the telly several years ago when it was played on a sandwich. It sounds unlikely, doesn't it? I mean, you don't. They have code names, code numbers. Double oh, 1020, zero three. Isn't that just normal for mi. Whatever? I don't know. I mean, we're talking probably years and years ago now, aren't we? Whether it's sort of changed now or something like that. But I wonder if anybody could confirm it. I like that the bus was James Bond. Named after a bus. Yeah, the double. I'm such a fan of trivia, Rob. I got to tell you that I. And this will sound cocky, but I think you'll know what I mean by it. If that was true, I think I'd have heard of it before. Yeah. Yeah. Do you know, maybe Peter Alice was yanking the viewers chains on the table. But we'll find out. Why is James Bond zero zero seven? And has it got anything to do with the bus? Zero. 345-606-0973 Nick's in Newmarket. Nick, question or answer? It's a question, James. Yes, I do a lot of driving and I go through a lot of towns, obviously, for me job, but I think you'll know this question, but so you can. I'm probably teeing you up for a round of applause here, but I just wondered why towns were twinned with other towns and if there's any relationship between the towns that are twinned or if it's just completely random, you know, he's bognor. Twinned with another town in another country. Just councils anywhere. Just councils who fancy it. Okay. And they get to go on sort of fact finding missions with each. You very rarely fight. Kidderminster is twinned with somewhere a little bit rubbish? No. No. But then Kidderminster itself is my hometown, is also a little bit rubbish. So if you were a kidderminster and you sort of went to Monte Carlo and said, oh, do you want to twin with us? They'd tell you to jog on, wouldn't they? So what you get is, so Bognor's probably twinned with somewhere a bit rubbish on the french coast. So their relation is just written on a sign and nothing else? No, they'll visit each other and they might do exchanges. I mean, the original idea would be to expand our understanding of each other, you know, to kind of recognize the single uniting nature of humanity and to look for what we. And to learn more about other cultures and to, you know, remember twinning would have started when traveling to the continent wasn't even commonplace. So it was a sort of window on the rest of the world, wasn't it? So it's to open the door into the beauty of kidderminster, essentially, you say, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Kind of, yeah. And now it's just a jolly for councillors. They just sort of get a freebie trip fortnight. Fact finding. Okay. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. I will. I'll take that. Thank you very much indeed. It's 12:30 33 minutes after twelve is the time. Why? Where does the word punter come from? Why is James Bond called zero zero seven? And can you expand on my town twinning? Answer. I bet you can't. But if you can, you know what to do. Sally's in Sutton. Question or answer? Sally. It's an answer, James. Carry on. It's punter. Go on. It's a horse racing term. The irish word for pound is punt. And to have a punt on a horse is to put a pound on a horse. Therefore you become a punter. Like it. Do you know, I tried. I tried to use punt as a pound in the context of the conversation and I couldn't follow it through to the next level. But that sounds almost certainly true. What are your qualifications? Unfortunately, my dad had a gambling addiction. He's one and that's why he's gone now. I'm sorry to hear that as well. That's all right, don't worry about it. And I used to work. I worked a few times during the St Leger, so got chatting with customers and things like that. So it's got to be true, hasn't it? Oh, my man. My nan always refers to it as a pun, just because people use. Well, I know every now I know everyone says, a punt on the horses. I said that. But in terms of what punts on the river why is that called a punt? No idea. What you reckon, Jones? Round of applause on this one. Well, I think you're quite lucky there, Sally. But, hey, it's, you know, it's a software that decides, not me. 1234 is the time. Ruth's in Rochester. Ruth. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question, please. Yes, in a house you have a bedroom and a bathroom, a dining room and a sitting room. Why is the kitchen not called the cooking room? It puzzled me for a long time. Cooking room. Because you might be having salad. Round of applause for me, thank you very much. Because you might be having salad. No. What's wrong with that? Because I don't eat salad. Were they always separate rooms? Wouldn't you have eaten and cooked and done everything in one room at one time? Would that be a tent? Wouldn't it? Did you not have a table in your kitchen when you were growing up? Yes. But you didn't just cook in there, you et in there as well. It was. It's not specifically just for cooking, whereas all the other rooms are specifically just for what they're described as. A kitchen is like the center, the nucleus, the hub of a home. See, I don't know that if. Why is a kitchen not called a cooking room? I don't know if that's a question anybody could answer. Where does it the kitchen derive from, then? Latin, probably. Do you think so? Yeah, I reckon. Don't you? Can you go defend it? Parlour. What's a parlor? A parlor? Yeah. Didn't you play? For asking once? Very well played, actually. You almost deserve a round of applause for that. I don't think that. I mean, it's not all just called that. What about a study? Well, you can study in a study. You can, but it's not called a studying room. About conservatory. Over these. Embodiment. Pantry. Pantry, larder. I still think it's quite a good question. Spare bedroom. Spare room. You're just getting nickety now. Lumber room, attic. Bride and groom. So can you answer that then or not? Are you just going to veer off onto some tangent? How often do you listen to the programme, Ruth? Every Thursday. So what are you expecting? What are you expecting to happen? You haven't disappointed? Very glad to hear it. Why is the kitchen not called a cooking room? Zero. 345-606-0973 there will be an answer to that, actually, I bet. And it would be nice if we could get it for Ruth because she was so charming. John is in Abergavenny. John, question or answer? Answer. James, good morning to you. Good morning to you, sir. I believe one of the questions was the origin of the name James Bond. No, the origin of the code name zero zero seven. Ah, sorry, I'm giving you the wrong answer, then. You were going to tell me about the ornithologist who was friends with Ian Fleming in. Yes. And the author of the Birds of Jamaica. That's the one. The birds of Jamaica, eh? Yeah. Oh, well, sorry, not giving you the right answer. Oh, well, that's us. Do you know why was his code name was double oh seven at all? No, I don't. Apparently involved a bus. Yeah. That's what my reaction was as well. I find that very unlikely. No, I'm sorry, you were. I don't know. Misled, miss. But anyway, you're right. James Bond was the name of an ornithologist who wrote the birth of Jamaica. But the code name. The question is, why is he zero zero seven? Jackson Sheffield. Jack. Question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question. Come on in, mate. Just wondering if the venomous animal bites itself or if another venomous animal are the same species bites another same animal. Does one of them die or can they, like, metabolize their own? I like that question. So, two poisonous snakes fighting each other. Well, it's not mistakes. It could be, say, spiders. Yeah, I know, but, you know, I'm just sort of thinking out. I'm thinking out. So they don't even have to be the same species. No. So they're the same species, though, and they're fighting each other. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that a bit like art? No, because you could keep the poison in a sort of special place in your body, couldn't you? This is what I was thinking. Once it's out of that special place, it's into your bloodstream. I love that question. Yeah. Can. So two. Two venomous creatures of the same species, can they poison each other? Yeah, essentially. Can they metabolize their own poison? I know you're only going to get a yes or a no to the first bit. Yeah, okay, that's fair enough. Well, I hope you are, anyway. 1239. Yeah, I love that, actually. Why have we never asked that? I can't believe we've never had that before. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call Ali's in Dartford. Ally, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I'm probably. And this is something somebody definitely will know the answer to. I'm sure it's just me being naughty, but I was watching a program the other day, and, you know, when the police swoop in and they do dorm raids and stuff and they whip people out? I'm assuming they then go directly to jail or whatever. They've got no family. 200 pounds. Yeah, but I'm assuming. So assume they've got no family or anything. Who. Who deals with pets stuff in the fridge? I know he sounds really, really silly, but what have you done? What have you done? And what are you worried about? Don't ask. So, if Mike. What you're really saying, ali, is if my house gets raided at dawn tomorrow, who's going to look after the dog? Not mine. Yeah. No, no, no. I'll take the dog with me. I wouldn't leave the dog behind. You can't take the dog with you. No, I'd have to. Well, it'll be the same as. I mean, it'd be awful. Well, actually, why am I trying to answer? What happens? You do a dawn raid, you empty the house, who looks after it? Who makes sure it's locked up again? There might not be any pets. So you just don't want the front door gaping wide open. Well, bank account, council tax. I know it sounds really silly, but you know these things. If you just stopped in a day and just didn't do anything for next month. No, but they're not. They're going to come home before that because you're very, very un. Well, I mean, you'll be bailed or something. I suppose it's possible you could be arrested, charged, put on remand and never return home again. Who fixes up the house after a dawn raid? Yeah, that's a silly question. No, I like that question. I'm just very suspicious about your motives for asking it. No, I'm just scared of being shot down in flames by you, Jane. Me? What are you talking about? You sound like Laria. I'm getting a massive complex now. You sound like Larina. I'm digging for an applause so no one ever gets. You're not going to get an applause, not for that. But I'll try and get you an answer to your question, at least. It's 1241. What are we still looking for? We need to know why James Bond is known as zero zero seven. Why the kitchen is called a kitchen. If you think about it, every other room in the house, Ruth argued, is functional. It's named after what happens in it. The dining room, the bedroom, the sitting room, the living room, even the. The study you could have as well. Why is the kitchen not. Not descriptive? Zero 345-606-0973 and we've done the origin of the word punter, but I don't know if we went all the way. I think we probably did. Frank's in Nieston. Frank, question or answer? Answer, James. Go on, mate. The double o question. Yes. Yeah. Agents with a prefix of double o. License to kill. That's why James Bond was issued with a walk for PPK, which is not a gun. He preferred. He preferred the Beretta and tried to sneak it out of m's office. He often did. But why seven? I know oo is the. Yeah, well, seven would be for different categories of agents, but I don't know what six is or what eight is. But seven is the agent. License to kill. No, because there can only be one double oh seven. No, no, double o. The agents. Agents who are licensed to kill, let's say this. Twelve of them, they will all. They will all be double oh seven s. So be double oh seven. There's a double oh six in some of the James Bond books. And aoo, there's only one double o. Seven oh, man, this is going to get controversial, Frank. Are you sure you want to do that? You want to just take a moment before you pile in on this one? Well, you know there's only one double o. You're telling me there's twelve, zero zero seven s. How do they know the difference? The double O prefix is what we're talking about, isn't it? And there's the double O prefix, which is the prefix for the agents who can. License to kill. License to kill, yeah, double O, but there's only 107. Otherwise, what if M says the moneypenny, get me zero zero seven and there's twelve people in the Rolodex, regardless of what the final number is. That the prefix of double O. That is the prefix to. Given to agents who are like. But I know that the question was, why is he known as zero zero seven? Not what does double O mean? Why is he must be probably number seven. They recruited number one, number two, number three, number four. They got up to him. He was number seven. Yes. So it's got nothing to do with the boss in Kent? No, no, no, no. They have to be there to distinguish their agents. They may not want to give the. Write it down on a piece of paper in case it's intercepted. Or speak about it over the phone in case it's intercepted. So it's convenient to say double O. What we know who that. Who the agents are and number seven. I mean, the fellow who was watching the golf on the telly and heard Peter Alice say that James Bond's code name came from a bus that runs up the sandwich coast. Peter Alice was making a joke. Yeah, nice story. Yeah. I think you've. What are your. Hang on, Frank, what are your qualifications? And obviously, in answering this question, I don't want you to break the Official Secrets act. No, I just have watched quite a few James Bonds films and it always seems. It's always seems to come up at some point that. I don't know that I can give you a round of applause. Why did Ian Fleming choose double O seven seven? Well, I suppose he had to choose a number. Yeah. So why did he choose seven? Yeah, well, only he would know why he chose. Only he would know why he chose seven. Well, history might have recorded why he chose seven. He might have left a message about why he chose seven. He could have chose eight. If he could have chose eight, we'd be asked. We'd say, well, why did you choose eight? Well, he says, well, I would and you'd have to tell me. You couldn't just say he chose because he wanted to. When you're an author, you've got to come up with something, you know. But we know where he got the name James Bond from. That was from the birds of Jamaica. Yeah, yeah, fair enough. So where did he get zero zero seven from? At some point, he had to come up with a number for that, to follow the prefix, and he chose 70. But he could have chosen eight. No, I'm not. You're not having it? Sorry. You can't. You can't have it. It's not because. You can't just say because you liked it. Well, you have to come up with something. You can't just say that. It can't be an answer, otherwise you just. You ruin the whole of mystery hours. What are the other questions we've got? Why is a punter called a punter? You just say, well, because it is. And someone else would say, why do we twin towns? And you just say, well, because we do. And someone else would say, why is a kitchen called a kitchen? And you just say, well, because it is. No, no, because it is. Because it's the prefix we're talking about. It is not the prefix that we're talking about, it's the seven that we're talking about. Yeah, well, seven is just follows the prefix. The prefix is the essential part here, because that is the license to kill and seven is the agent. So why seven? Well, seven is the agent. The agent James Bond. Listen, Frank, just say, I don't know, James. Well, there's no question knowing. I mean, you can call him seven a if you want. Seven a? Why not? Why is he called seven? I don't know, James. Why is he called seven? He's called seven because every agent has to have a number. So why did Ian Fleming choose seven? I don't know, James. He could call him five, but he. But he. Why didn't he. Why didn't he call him five? Why did he call him seven? I don't know, James. Maybe he just liked them in the name. What number should I give my agent? I'll call him seven. I like the number seven. Seven is a lucky number. So you don't know. So you don't know why? No one will ever know. Just say, I don't know. Why can't you just say, I don't know, James? You might as well say, why did he. Why does James Bond live in a particular village where no one would ever know why he lived in, unless you are resurrected? And Ian Fleming would say, because that was the name of the village that I grew up in as a little boy, and you would actually have an answer. But why can't you just say, I don't know, James? Because I have already given you the answer. You haven't given me the answer, Frank. Why did he call him zero zero seven? Because. Because all the. All the agents licensed to kill had the prefix of double o. Tell you what, man, I'm beginning to wish I was licensed to kill. 33 minutes after twelve is the time. Why? Where does the word punter come from? Why is James Bond called zero zero seven? And can you expand on my town? Twinning answer. I bet you can't. But if you can, you know what to do. Sally's in Sutton. Question or answer, Sally? It's an answer, James. Carry on. It's punter. Go on. It's the horse racing term. The irish word for pound is punt. And to have a punt on a horse is to put a pound on a horse, so therefore you become a punter. Like it. Do you know, I tried. I tried to use punt as a pound in the context of the conversation, and I couldn't follow it through to the next level, but that sounds almost certainly true. What are your qualifications? Unfortunately, my dad had a gambling addiction. He's one. And that's why he's gone now. I'm sorry to hear that as well. That's all right, don't worry about it. And I used to work. I worked a few times during the St ledger, so. Got chatting with customers and things like that. It's got to be true, hasn't it? My nan always refers to it as a punt, just because people use. Well, I know every now I know everyone says, a punt on the horses. I said that. But in terms of. Well, punts on the river, why is that called a punt? No idea. What do you reckon, Jones? Round of applause on this one. Well, I think you're quite lucky there, Sally. But, hey, it's, you know, it's a software that decides, not me. 1234 is the time. Ruth's in Rochester. Ruth, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question, please. Yes, in a house you have a bedroom, a bathroom, a dining room and a sitting room. Why is the kitchen not called the cooking room? It's puzzled me for a long time. Cooking room. Because you might be having salad. Round of applause for me. Thank you very. That's it. Come on. Because you might be having salad. No. What's wrong with that? Because I don't eat salad. Were they always separate rooms? Wouldn't you have eaten and cooked and done everything in one room at one time? Well, that'd be a tent, wouldn't it? Did you not have a table in your kitchen when you were growing up? Yes. But you did. So you didn't just cook in there, you went in there as well? It was. It's not specifically just for cooking, whereas all the other rooms are specifically just for what they're described as. A kitchen is like the center, the nucleus, the hub of a home. See, I don't know that if. Why is a kitchen not called a cooking room? I don't know if that's a question anybody could answer. Where does it the kitchen derive from, then? Latin, probably. Do you think so? Yeah, I reckon. Don't you? Can you go defend it? Parlour. What's a parlor? A parlor? Yeah. Didn't you play? For asking. Very well played, actually. You almost deserve a round of applause for that. I don't think that. I mean, it's not all just called that. What about a study? Well, you can study in a study. You can, but it's not called a studying room. About conservatory. Oh, but these. Embodiment. Pantry. Pantry, larder. I still think it's quite a good question. Spare bedroom. Spare room. You're just getting nickety now. Lumber room, attic. Bride and groom. So can you answer that then or not? Are you just going to veer off onto some tangent? How often do you listen to the programme ruth every Thursday. So what are you expecting? What are you expecting to happen? You haven't disappointed? I'm very glad to hear it. Why is the kitchen not called a cooking room? Zero. 345-606-0973 there will be an answer to that, actually, I bet. And it would be nice if we could get it for ruth because she was so charming. John is in Abergavenny. John, question or answer? Answer. James. Good morning to you. Good morning to you, sir. I believe one of the questions was the origin of the name James Bond. No, the origin of the code name zero zero seven. Ah, sorry, I'm giving you the wrong answer, then. You were going to tell me about the ornithologist who was friends with Ian Fleming in. Yes. And the author of the Birds of Jamaica. That's the one. The birds of Jamaica, eh? Yeah. Oh, well, sorry, not giving you the right answer. Oh, well, that's us. Do you know why was his code name was double oh seven at all? No, I don't. Oh. Apparently involved a boss. Yeah. That's what my reaction was as well. I find that very unlikely. No, I'm sorry, you were. I don't know. Misled, miss. But anyway, you're right. James Bond was the name of an ornithologist who wrote the birds of Jamaica. But the code name, the question is, why is he zero zero seven? Jack's in Sheffield. Jack, question or answer? Hi, James, I've got a question. Come on in, mate. Just wondering if the venomous animal bites itself or if another venomous animal are the same species bites another same animal, does one of them die or can they, like, metabolize their own? I like that question. So, two poisonous snakes fighting each other. Well, it's not mistakes. It could be, say, spiders. Yeah, I know, but, you know, I'm just sort of thinking out. I'm thinking out. So they don't even have to be the same species? No. So they're the same species, though, and they're fighting each other? Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that a bit like art? No, because you could keep the poison in a sort of special place in your body, couldn't you? This is what I was thinking. Once it's out of that special place, it's into your bloodstream. I love that question. Yeah. Can. So two. Two venomous creatures of the same species, can they poison each other? Yeah. Or do they. Can they metabolize their own poison? I know you're only going to get a yes or a no to the first bit. Yeah. Okay, that's fair. Enough. Well, I hope you are, anyway. 1239. Yeah, I love that, actually. Why have we never asked that? I can't believe we've never had that before. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call Ali's in Dartford. Ali. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. And I'm probably. And this is something somebody definitely will know the answer to. I'm sure it's just me being naive, but I was watching a program the other day, and, you know when the police swoop in and they do dorm raids and stuff and they whip people out, assuming they then go directly to jail or whatever, they've got no family. Collect 200 pounds. Yeah, but I'm assuming. So assume they've got no family or anything. Who. Who deals with pets? Stuff in the fridge? I know he sounds really, really silly, but what have you done? What have you done? And what are you worried about? Don't ask. So, if Mike. What you're really saying, Ali, is if my house gets raided at dawn tomorrow, who's going to look after the dog? Not mine. Yeah. No, no, no. I'd have dog with me. I wouldn't leave a dog behind. You can't take the dog with you. No, I'd have to. Well, there'd be. It'll be the same as. I mean, it'd be off. Well, actually, why am I trying to answer? What happens? You do a dawn raid, you empty the house, who looks after it? Who makes sure it's locked up again? Or even there might not be any pets. So you could just. Don't want the front door gaping wide open. Well, bank accounts, council tax. I know it sounds really silly, but you know these things. If you just stopped in a day and just didn't do anything for the next month. No, but they're not. They're going to come home before that, because you're very, very unfortunately. I mean, you'll be bailed or something. I suppose it's possible you could be arrested, charged, put on remand and never return home again. So who fixes up the house after a dawn raid? Yeah, that's a silly question. No, I like that question. I'm just very suspicious about your motives for asking it. No, I'm just scared of being shot down in flames by you, Jane. Me? What are you talking about? You sound like Larry. I'm getting a massive complex now. You sound like Loreena. I'm digging for an applause, but no one ever gets. You're not going to get an applause, not for that. But I'll try and get you an answer to your question, at least. It's 1241. What are we still looking for? We need to know why James Bond is known as zero zero seven. Why the kitchen is called a kitchen. If you think about it, every other room in the house, Ruth argued, is functional. It's named after what happens in it. The dining room, the bedroom, the sitting room, the living room, even the study. You could have as well. Why is the kitchen not. Not descriptive? Zero. 345-606-0973 and we've done the origin of the word punter, but I don't know if we went all the way. I think we probably did. Frank's in eastern. Frank. Question or answer? Answer, James. Go on, mate. The double O question. Yes. Yeah. Agents with a prefix of double o, license to kill. That's why James Bond was issued with a walkthrough PPK, which is not a gun. He preferred. He preferred the Beretta and tried to sneak it out of M's office. He often did. But why seven? I know oo is the. Yeah, well, seven would be for different categories of agent. That. But I don't know what six is or what eight is, but seven is the. Is the agent license to kill? No, because there can only be one double oh seven. No, no, double O agents. Agents who are licensed to kill, let's say this. Twelve of them, they will all. They will all be double oh seven s. So be double oh seven. There's a double oh six in some of the James Bond books. And aoo, there's only one double o, so. Oh, man, this is going to get controversial. Frank, are you sure you want to do that? You want to just take a moment before you pile in on this one? Well, you know there's only one double O. You're telling me there's twelve double o seven s. How do they know the difference? The double O prefix is what we're talking about, isn't it? And there's aoo prefix, which is the prefix for the agents who can. License to kill. License to kill, yeah, double o, but there's only 1007. Otherwise, what if m says the money penny, get me zero zero seven. And there's twelve people in the Rolodex, regardless of what the final number is that the prefix of double O is. That is the prefix to. Given to agents who are like. No, but I know that that's what the question was. Why is he known as double O seven? Not what does double O mean? Why is he. Must be probably number seven. They recruited number one, number two, number three, number four. They got up to him. He was number seven. Yes. So it's got nothing to do with the boss in Kent? No, no, no. To distinguish their agents. They may not want to give the. Write it down on a piece of paper in case it's intercepted or speak about it over the phone in case it's intercepted. So it's convenient to say double o. Well, we know who that. Number seven. The fellow who was watching the golf on the telly and heard Peter Alice say that James Bond's code name came from a bus that runs up the sandwich coast. Peter Alice was making a joke. Yeah, nice story. Yeah. I think you've. What are your call. Hang on, Frank, what are your qualifications? And obviously, in answering this question, I don't want you to break the Official Secrets act. No, I just have watched quite a few James Bonds films and it always seems to always seem to come up at some point that. I don't know that I can give you a round of applause. Why did Ian Fleming choose double O seven seven? Well, I suppose he had to choose a number. Yeah. So why did he choose seven? Yeah, well, only he would know why he chose. Only he would know why he chose seven. Well, history might have recorded why he chose seven. He might have left a message about why he chose seven. He could have chose eight. If he could have chosen eight, we'd be asked. We'd say, well, why did you choose eight? Well, he says, well, I would. And you'd have to tell me. You couldn't just say he chose because he wanted to. When you're an author, you've got to come up with something. But we know where he got the name James Bond from. That was from the birds of Jamaica. Yeah, yeah, fair enough. So where did he get double oh seven from? At some point, he had to come up with a number for that to follow the prefix, and he chose 70. But he could have chosen eight. No, I'm not. And you're not having it. Sorry. You can't. You can't have it. It's not because. You can't just say because he liked it. Well, you have to come up with something. You can't just say that. It can't be answered, otherwise you just. You ruin the whole of mystery house. What are the other questions we've got? Why is a punter called a punter? You just say, well, because it is. And someone else would say, why do we twin towns? And you just say, well, because we do. And someone else would say, why is a kitchen called a kitchen. And you just say, well, because it is. No, no, because it is. Because it's the prefix we're talking about. It is not the prefix that we're talking about, it's the seven that we're talking about. Yeah, well, the seven is just follows the prefix. The prefix is the essential part here because that is the license to kill and seven is the agent. You can't. Yeah, so why seven? Well, seven is the agent. The agent James Bond. Listen, Frank, just say, I don't know, James. Well, there's no question of knowing. I mean, you could call him seven a if you want. Why seven a? Why not? Why is he called seven? I don't know, James. Why is he called seven? He's called seven because every agent has to have a number. So why did Ian Fleming choose seven? I don't know, James. Why? He could have charged him. He could have called him five. But he. But he. Why didn't he. Why didn't he call him five? Why did he call him seven? I don't know, James. But maybe he just liked them in the name. What number should I give my agent? I'll call him seven. I like the number seven. Seven is a lucky number. So you don't know. So you don't know why? No one will ever know. Just say, I don't know. Why can't you say, I don't know, James? You might as well say, why did he. Why did James want to live in a particular village where no one would ever know why he lived in, unless you are unresurrected? And Ian Fleming would say, because that was the name of the village that I grew up in as a little boy. And you would actually have an answer. But why can't you just say, I don't know, James? Because I've already given you the answer. You haven't given me the answer, Frank. Why did he call him double oh seven? Because all the. All the agents licensed to kill had the prefix of double o. Tell you what, man, I just. I'm beginning to wish I was licensed to kill. I'm Amy Solomon in the LBC travel center on the m 25, headed anti clockwise. I can still see delays after junction six at Godston, approaching Clackett lane. It was after a lorry broke down earlier. All lanes are now open, though. In little Heath in Romford, the a twelve. Traffic lights still are phasing correctly at Barley Lane. Now that's causing delays along the a twelve from Moby Dick and the works along Vauxhall. Bridge Road mean it's queuing over Vauxhall Bridge again in both directions onto the train. South eastern still unable to run between Lewisham and Charlton after a freight train derailed yesterday. Services on the Woolwich line are being diverted via Sidcup, keeping London moving. Your next travel update is in half an hour. This is LBC. On average, two people over 65 die in a house fire every week. Please test their smoke alarms regularly. Fire kills, you can prevent it. 118434 the handy number for handy numbers. Calls cost 76 pence plus one pound 53 /minute from a BT landline. Other networks vary and mobiles cost considerably more. Listen up then. We never realized that we could get a hefty government payout for innovation. Thought it was just for those high tech boys down south, not a down to earth bunch like us. We did it, thanks to you lot and the really helpful guys at breakthrough funding. Yeah, sorry, just slipped out. Easy money then, boss? Not at all. It's a cash reward for showing how innovative ideas can reap benefits all round. Your company could qualify for innovation cash too. Find out online now by answering just six qualifying questions@breakthroughfunding.com. Yeah, parking spaces no two are the same. Some are roomy, some are not. Some look like you could maybe. No, not sure about that one. Introducing the Honda Jazz with its impressive turning circle that makes easy work of even the tightest spaces. And now the Jazz is available with complimentary upgrade from the 1.2 se to the 1.4 Es, worth 1500 pounds. So park up at your nearest Honda dealer for details now with 0% Apr. Representative terms and conditions apply. Kicksteps Pallet trucks safes and stackers Archive boxes Office AJ Products has over 15,000 products for office school warehousing industry. You will find surprisingly more at ajproducts dot co dot uk want a London apartment? Just a five minute walk from Canary Wharf, starting at just 350,000 pounds. Galliard homes harbour central island just a five minute walk to Crossrail from 2018. Five minutes from the office 15 to the west End shops by tube plus green open squares, shops, cafes, a private luxury gym and spa. Call Galliard on zero 203-770-6300 or visit harborcentral.com. That's harborcentral.com. Time to break free. No, think of nothing. Live the London lifestyle with Galliard. We all like to splash out on holiday, relaxing and living a life of luxury. But you don't need to start the big spend getting to the airport, just airports is an affordable, hassle free chauffeur service. Exclusive to servicing London's airports in style. You can get a quote and book online@justairports.com. Via the JustAirports app or by calling zero two zero eight nine zero zero one six six. JustAirports dot com. Spend your money out there, not getting there. Coming up at one on LBC, Beverly Turner a new online test can tell you you, with 80% accuracy, whether you're going to die within the next five years. Would you be brave enough to take the test? And if so, would it make you change your lifestyle? BeverLY TUrNeR, this afternoon, from one on LBC at LBC dot co dot UK, you could win a home entertainment system consisting of an ultra hd tv and sound bar. It's all thanks to the National Geographic Channel's new documentary T Rex autopsy, which can be seen this Sunday at 08:00 p.m. Using cutting edge science and state of the art special effects, the program makers have built the world's first full size, anatomically correct tyrannosaurus Rex so it can be dissected and analyzed. To find out more about the show, and for your chance to win that home entertainment system, just visit LBC dot co dot UK. 51 is the time. Dawn Reid, who looks after the house once the police have kicked in the door and left it empty? Why is a kitchen called a kitchen? I haven't got time to re explain the wisdom of that question. And why is double oh seven? Why is James Bond's code number zero zero seven? Thank you for all the kind words about the last fellow trying to answer that question. I completely agree with all of them. Richard's in Shepherd's bush. Richard, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on, Richard, start the kitchen. Go on. But as a side, side bit, do you know who Goldfinger was named after? Yeah, the architect of the Trellis Tower. Oh, he's just brilliant, James. It's very simple. I think it's germanic and it means it's cushion, means to cook. Oh, you beauty. Is that right? Yeah. Qualifications? Yeah. I sell kitchens for a living. To be fair, I make radio progress for a living, but I'm not an expert on Marconi. Well, I think I'm an expert in my chosen field. I actually think there's a description on our website as well. Go on. I can give you if you like. Why not? Www dot kitchenexchange dot co dot uk. I thought. I thought you're going to give us a description. Not the website, but. Kudos, but very nicely played. Thank you very much. James, if you're wrong, definitely in German. Do you speak German. Yeah? Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, you don't, do you? Nine. Nine. I did GCSE German, James. So promise me that this is true. You haven't just hijacked mystery out to give your kitchen company a free advert. I promise you it's true. Kutching is to cook. Does anybody. Hang on, I've got a room full of people for some reason. Does anyone speak German? Does anybody in there speak German? Anyone speak German? Nine. Yeah. You're all hilarious. I'm surrounded by comedians. Give Richard a round of applause. If you're yanking my chain, you're dead. Yeah. Phil. Sim Brockley. Phil. Question or answer? Answer. Yes, mate. Two poisonous creatures. Can they kill each other? Yes. Yes. Bees, for example. Honeybees. In fact, quite often two queens could be born in a colony and they have to fight it out. And the way they do that is sting each other to death. Really? So two scorpions, could they have a scrap as well? I believe so. I remember watching something on Richard Attenborough about those. And they stab each other until one's dead. And I believe adders do as well. Round of applause. Hang on. Qualificate. Well, you just saw it on David Attenborough. Is that the qualification? No, actually, on the b side, it's because I'm a beekeeper. Oh, good man. How's business? Pretty good, thanks, mate. This year it's looking good. So, I mean, the big fear, of course, last year was that the mysterious deaths of bees were going on. Checked and un understood. Things have improved. Have they? Well, they certainly better in the UK than they are in the States, for example. And we're doing probably just as well as Europe. It's. Yes, there's still under threat. Yes. We need people to, if I can plug it, get forage. In other words, plant stuff in the spring. For spring and plant stuff. We just got an allotment, mate. We're bang on side. Oh, good man. Yeah. Make sure it's be friendly stuff you put in, because probably a lot of these flowers, you might put them in a lot. Probably. But people buy these flowers from the garden centers that are just designed to give a beautiful flower, but they don't give out ideas. And zero nectar, no good for the bees. Where do you keep your hives? I've got some at home, some out in Kent, which is in London as home, and some down at Essex. I love it. So it is actually a business, it's not just a hobby. Yes, well, you see what the difference between you and the last fella is. Sorry, the difference between you and the last fella you see is that he smuggled in an advert for his business. Unprompted, he sort of snuck under the wire, which left me feeling slightly manipulated and a little bit. Well, I won't lie to you, Phil, I felt a little bit used and abused, mate. No, I don't do things like that. Which is why I'm now going to feel very bounteous in asking you to tell me more about your bee based company. Okay. Yeah, I'm fairly new, as in going business wise, because I kept it as a hobby until this year. So where are you selling the honey? Where are you selling the honey? I'm selling it from home at the moment, and I've just got the URL up, which is broccolibees dot co dot Uk. You see, that was so charming. Now, if Mister Kitchen fella listening over in Shepherd's books, Richard, that you see, you're going to get business out of this. I'm not sure he is, because you waited for an invitation, you provided us with some interesting information, and then you very graciously accepted the opportunity to avail yourself of a free advert. Broccolibees dot co dot UK. Thank you, John. And I don't want any free samples. It's 1256. I love honey. I love bees. I haven't got the guts to keep them, though. And I know that Phil would tell me I'd be fine. I don't know. I got attached to my chicken and a fox at them. Ned's in Croydon. That question or answer? We're an answer, James. Come on, then. Ned is there with the. What happens to your animals and your door and stuff like that when the lovely policeman is turned up? Right, okay, I just can ask. Can I do things the other way? Can I do them the wrong way around from usual? Can I ask what your qualifications are before you give me the answer? I used to work for the RSPCA. Oh, okay. Thank God for that. I thought. I thought. Yeah, all right. I thought. You're gonna say, I used to be in Ronnie and Reggie Cray's gang. Anyway, carry on. I don't know, but I've got no free adverts to do. What happens to the animals then in the house? Basically, any animals are usually contacted with the animal wardens from whichever council it controls the area. And the same with, if they kick the door in, they have to contact local council, come out and seal your door. Makes sense, really. Did you ever have it? Did you ever have to do it when you were in the RSPCA. With the RSPCA. Yes, I did. Yeah, I did. Occasionally, if the animal wardens are busy, we used to work very closely with them. And occasionally, yeah, we get called out and don't collect the animals from a fire or anything like that. I like that. That's a lovely answer. And I know that she wanted that sort of details on who pays your council tax, who does your bills, but frankly, you know, she'd be grateful for what she's got with that, shouldn't she? Well, I mean, I would imagine that'd be dealt with by social services. And also you can do it from prison. Yes, you can. Round of applause for Ned. Wonderful. I enjoyed the sound of that celebration. Should have kept that on the tape. Oh, God. Gone Johnny Wandsworth. Give me a question, I'll see if I can answer it. Hello. Jarmer tops. Why have they always got a top pocket? Keep your handkerchief in. No, that sounds right to me. All right, what's your answer? Keeping the condom in. Beverly Turner's here. I wasn't expecting that, were you? I don't know. I've never put my hand in his pocket. It's coming up to 1259. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Round of applause for John. Round of applause for me. Round of applause for Beverly. Oh, lovely. That's a nice way to start, isn't it? Thank you, James. Thank you. Thank.