Can the space-station rust?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, four minutes after twelve is the time I've got to get my act together. Obviously, generally that's true as well, but I'm thinking a little bit more specifically on this. I've got so much going on at the moment. But top of the list is the forthcoming mystery hour board game and we're going to start raising some money for charity with a rather splendid mystery, our t shirt as well. But you know what I'm like. It's on my to do list and then I forget for a couple of days until it. I've got to get a paper back out in May. These are first world problems, I grant you, but it's only at 1204 on a Thursday that I suddenly remember where I put my to do list. Crack on this afternoon with some of that while you I bask in the afterglow of mystery hour because it is almost upon us your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. And more importantly, knowledge free knowledge, enlightenment, information, expertise, even at your fingertips. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Shall we start? Just crack straight on. No rules, no regulations, no pac drill, no rank. Yeah, rank with an R. Okay. Matthew's in horn church. Matthew, question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please carry on. That's a relief. Yeah. The question basically is what's the difference between first and second class? Post about five p to put some meat on the bones, because I knew someone was going to say that you post two letters going at the same time, same size, at the same post box going to the same destination. How would their journeys vary if one's got a first class and the other's got a second class stamp? It's a nice question, isn't it? Yeah. I think we've probably done it before, but I can't remember the answer and you've clearly not heard the answer or if you have, you've already forgotten it, so we'll definitely ask it again. Thank you. Do you use stalemail, to coin a phrase much anymore? I think we all do. I think it just crossed my mind at Christmas when we were posting Christmas cards. Yeah. Yeah. You go out early, do them second class, save yourself a bit. How much is a first class stamp these days? It's the sort of question that you ask a politician if you haven't got any proper questions to ask them. How much does a first class stamp cost these days? Yeah. Do you know it's a lot more than you think, that's all I can tell you. Because the last time I bought one, I bought a packet of cigarettes for a palominia, but not the other day in 2019, because I was popping around to see him and he said, can you get me some fags? I haven't bought cigarettes for 30 years, almost. I couldn't believe how expensive they were. And I had a similar experience with a first class stamp. These are the anecdotes they tune in for. Keith, Emily's in Glasgow. Emily, question or answer? Hi there. Hello. I was wondering, why are newborn babies who are born before midday classed as a day old at midday? What? My son was born at 11:50 a.m.. Yeah, he was classed as a newborn the minute it turned 12:00 and they did some paperwork. He was classed as a day old. Well, they have to put the line somewhere. Why can't it be midnight? Let him enjoy his day. But then you'd have another, you'd say, why does he class? He was born at ten minutes to midnight. Why is he classified as a day old when he's only eleven minutes old? Yeah, but they have to put it somewhere. That's a marker of, you know, the day changing into the next day, but. Bunch of time. He seems to stolen his thunder a bit. Really. I understand your plight, but I think I also understand the reason for it, which is that if they were. I mean, it's all about registry, isn't it? And writing stuff down. So twelve noon is. There's just a lot more going on than there is at midnight. This isn't sounding as convincing as I thought it was going to when I first started speaking. Emily only has half a birthday or ten minutes. I think you're overthinking it a bit now. So his birthday is the same and he's a day old when he hits noon. So he's one day old and then at noon the next day he's two days old. Oh, no, then it counts at midnight, he's then two days old. Oh, this is the worst question ever, no offense. I'm just so confused. There you go. What's he saying? What's the fellow in the background saying? Emily? There's no one in the background. Oh, no, that was me. So I thought it was the baby's father. Apparently that was me echoing out of your radio or something. Anyway, I shall try and find out for you. Why does a newborn baby born in the morning get recorded as being a day old at midday that day? Yes. Okay. I didn't even know that I was probably still recovering from the effects of all the gas and air that I took. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Jeff's in Munich. Um, Jeff, would you excuse me for a moment? I have to do something very unprofessional. Not that, Jeff. I'm not that unprofessional. Can you just give me 10 seconds? Indeed. Thank you. Can I have a pen? Lads, I haven't got a pen. I'm going to forget all the questions. Where is it? What? I told you this was going to be unprofessional, Jeff. I bet you thought I was exaggerating, didn't you? I'm just. Hang on, I'm just going to slide my chair over to the other side of the studio. Just talk among yourselves. Do you know any good jokes? Oh, I know quite a few good jokes. I don't think they're appropriate for the radio. There we go. Thank you. I've just been handed five pens. That's what is called passive aggressive, I believe. Jeff. Question or answer? Yeah, I'd like a question, if you like. Do you want a pen? I've got loads. Yeah. I mean, if you want to send a pen over in Munich, that's great. I'll have one, you know, 20 years under Brexit. Right. Go on, go on, go on, go on. So we've got the baby was question two. What was question one? Can anyone remember? Poor old Jeff, he thought it was. Yeah. My question. Yes. Sorry, Jeff, you carry on. May I place my question? Yes, you may. Sorry. Sorry, Jeff, carry on with your question. Okay. Can scorpions sting themselves to death or are they immune to their own venom? It's a good question. It was almost worth the wait. Have you ever seen a scorpion sting itself? Well, obviously not, because then you'd know the answer to the question. No. I was in Morocco and I watched the fat tail yellow scorpions, and they've got a lot of poison in them, dancing with each other. They do this romantic sort of dance and they sort of sting each other, but you're not sure if it goes through there, if they release the venom, or they're just sort of flirting, really. So you don't mean. You don't mean like a suicidal scorpion that stings itself. You mean a scorpion stinging another scorpion of the same species of scorpion? Yeah, something in that direction. Whether they're immune to their own venom or whether. But when you say their own venom, you mean each other's venom? If you see what I mean. Yeah, okay. No, I'm clearer now on that. Okay, well, that's a great question. We shall find out for you. Why are babies registered as one day old at twelve noon, even if they were born five minutes previously? And what was the first question, though? The first and second class post? What's the difference? Not in cost, but in process? Service action Jackson, Exeter. Jack, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Jack. So I'm sticking with the insect theme. I don't know if a scorpion is an insect or not. I don't think it is. My wife thinks it's a stupid question, but. Okay, Jack, mate, just. No, no, no. How many times when your wife has advised you against doing something, has she turned out to be right? And how many times has she turned out to be wrong? I don't tend to pay much attention after the action. Okay. The result is not important. That way, madness lies. Carry on, Jack. Yeah, so we do a lot of work on old stone walls, and we quite often see spiders, lots of different spiders, and some of them are absolutely huge and forever. I've just assumed that they're the really old ones and they've just done really well to survive so long compared to the smaller ones. And then one of the lads I was working with me, he suggested that they might actually just eat more than the other ones, and therefore they might be better at catching food than the smaller spiders. So I'm curious just to know whether the big spiders are older than little spiders or just eat more or they just eat more. I mean, are you seeing big spiders and small spiders in the same sample size? Yeah, yeah. So it's not to do with food supply then? The same speed, because we got. We had one at the bottom of our garden. It's another one of those anecdotes. Keith, start the tape. Yes, or two. But it was absolutely huge. And it had something to do with how many insects were around at that time of year, rather than. It wouldn't normally have been anything like that size. I took a picture of it, sent it to a friend. So it's not that, because you've got a mix of spiders of same species and some are huge whitewashed. Yeah, yeah. No, I move you. If it's the same species, then it probably is something to do with age, I would have thought. But we'll find out. Yeah, which is what I thought. And I hadn't even considered the alternative until someone suggested it. Yeah, well, I mean, normally a massive spot. If it's a human, you don't. You know, once you've achieved adult humans are better eating. Aren't they generally speaking? Well, they are, but if you. You don't get bigger with age. Once you've achieved adulthood, your size is more to do with your diet than it is to do with your age. So maybe spiders are the same. It's a great. I don't think spiders are insects either, just to be really pedantic. I don't think either. Scorpions also is a spider. Insects have to have six legs. Insects have to have six legs. So a spider is an arachnid. But anyway. I'm being pedantic. Semantic, semantic, pedantic. Let's call the whole thing off, Jack. Thank you. Dan's in Cheshire. Dan, question or answer? It's a question for you, James. Carry on. Why do we capitalize the letter I in English when no other languages do the same? But do you know other. No other. No other languages? Not that I can think of, but. No other. But what's. You mean as in je? French. Je. Yeah. Or German. Ich. Or Spanish. Yo. You know, they're all. Okay, so I was wondering why in English. Recapitalize it. It will be. I bet you ten quid that it's to do with printing presses. I don't. I mean, I can't go to the bank on that yet, but I. Because no other. I don't think any other language has a single letter as the personal pronoun, do they? Yeah, but still, that shouldn't. It could. You could get it mixed up on a printed. You know, when printing was clumsier and more primitive, you could. It could be confusing if it had. If you used a little I for the personal pronoun. Why would that be? Computer? Because you might not realize that it was a personal pronoun. You might think it was part of the previous word or the subsequent word. So imagine if this is a rubbish example, but it will go straight off the top of my head. Give me a break. So imagine if it was I. Space glue. Right? But the space was quite small and they didn't use a capital I. You might think it was igloo. Yeah, but we had the letter a and we used that in the low case, in the middle. Now you're just being annoying. I just blown a hole in my box. Fresh theory of. Well, if it's nothing to do with printing, I shall put an imaginary ten pounds in the second class post. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1218 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC Mystery hour. Is upon us. And questions currently in need of answers are as follows. What's the difference in terms of service between first and second class posts? Do you like me? Quite like it when something pops up in life and you wonder whether it's a big issue. You remember I said to you earlier, my news sense is rubbish. So we've spent the last fortnight going, what's happened to the post? What's happened to the post? We're not getting deliveries. And then, obviously, this is a story that I missed because I opened the newspaper today and I read that around 16.5 million people suffered postal delays in January because of staff shortages at the Royal Mail, with the southeast and the West Midlands badly hit, alongside households in London, which were the worst. So that's what I meant earlier when I said to you, oh, my lord, that was a news story. And I actually knew that because it happened to me. So that is relevant to the first question about the difference between first and second class post. Why are babies adjudged to be one day old at twelve noon on the day of birth, even if they were only born five minutes previously? It's a tricky question, though. I'm hoping the answer is simpler than the question, are scorpions immune to their own venom? That is, can you know, two scorpions sting each other to death? Are bigger spiders greedier than smaller spiders, or just older? And why do we capitalize the letter I? When is it? Am I using the phrase personal pronoun correctly? I don't. Anyway, there's a question that we'll answer before close the play today. Sergio is in Cornwall. Do you want the good news or the bad news, Sergio? Both. All right. The bad news is Matt Hancock's already booked a holiday to Cornwall this summer. The good news is it doesn't look like he'll be able to come, so, as you were. Question or answer? He might be welcome, he might be not. What have you got? I've got the stamps. Yes. I'll just empty the post box in windy corner. Are you doing your collections live at the moment? Yeah, well, I'm not driving at the minute I stopped. But you are. You're on your. You're on your round as a postman. Yes, I am. Top man. Carry on. You have a few first and second class. They will go back to the middle center. Yeah. Which they go on. A machine machine reads the address on most of the addresses. Yeah. From hundreds and ones. They can read it and they get segregated into first and second, which is not the stamp, just frank mail as well, which is cheaper than stamp? Yes. For big businesses. It's not a great phone line. I know you're busy. I'll put it higher, if you will. Yeah, that's great. Cheers, Sergio. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, yeah. They go, the melt center machinery, the letters, all the bigger stuff is done by hand. Everyone, they're sorting into different areas and all that. Yeah. The first question obviously goes first. I'm not suggesting. I'm not suggesting you're taking a long time to answer this question, but I'm beginning to wonder whether it would have been quicker to send me a letter. Probably not. It's windy. Go on. Yeah. Right. First class goes 1st, 2nd class just pushed one side. Basically goes after or next day. That's why if you post two letters to yourself, one person, second, you probably get a first tomorrow, second day after. So they literally just say, well, we'll deal with that tomorrow and we'll do. Yeah, yeah, fair enough. And qualifications. Postman? Collecting posts and delivering posts. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Sergio can't say fairer than that. No. I appreciate there's a lot of post post men and women out there, but Sergio is on his rounds answering a question about the post, and that means he is qualifying for a Rayleigh order. Simon's in Hampton Hill. Simon, question or answer? It's a question. Good afternoon. Hello. I've got some multivitamins in front of me. All right, how much do you want for them? And the breakdown of the various vitamins that are in these multivitamins say things like, vitamin a, 60%, vitamin D, 3260%. Why can't they just make a multivitamin tablet with 100% of everything you need and just make it easier for us all? Just run that by me again. So I've got some multivitamins in front of me on the nutrition information on the back it says, vitamin A, 63% of recommended daily allowance. Vitamin D, right? Yeah. Why can't we just take a tablet with 100% of everything we need? Because you also eat and drink. You do. But that is the answer. I mean, I appreciate your impression of a bumblebee, but that has to be the answer is that if you were to take that multivitamin and then also pursue a balanced diet, you'd be overdosing on Whitman's brother. Yeah, but. Okay, then if we're overdosing on vitamins, we've got, I believe you're coming back at me now, come on. Come on. 300% of vitamin B twelve in this tablet. Yeah. So if I'm getting vitamin B twelve from my food as well, I'm overdosing on my vitamins. Yeah. So. But vitamin B twelve is not a damaging vitamin. To have too much of your RDA, you probably forgive me. I hope you're ready for that. You probably just wee it out. Whereas other vitamins, if you absorb them, it would do you some damage you don't have. You don't want to have too much vitamin something. For example, D. You don't want too much vitamin D, mate. Whoa, whoa. That is dark. That's what D stands for. Okay? I'm not. Well, how can you sound skeptical, Simon? Because it's taken. Beautiful answer about this. Percentages of the different vitamins, this whole list of vitamins. Yeah, but the hundred percent is relatively not arbitrary. But that's your science. They'll say, if you want to have optimum levels of vitamin B, then you need x micrograms per day. And there are 63% of x in this tablet. If we put 100% in the tablet and you went out and munched a load of carrots, you could do yourself a bit of a mischief. No, stop it with the bumblebee. We've already been there once. That is the answer. Do you want me? You're going definitive, are you, James, on this? Yes, categorically. But you don't have to accept it. That's the. No, I don't accept it. Sorry. All right. I might have to rewrite the rules of the board game now to accommodate this slight twist in proceedings. All right, well, if there's a different answer to this question, Simon, I will give you the money myself. But I respect your autonomy at this stage in proceedings. And you're not accepting mine. Just off the top of your head, can you think of an answer that might be better than mine? There must be some where there's a reason why they're not putting 100% in. And it might be that you can only accommodate a certain percentage in tablet form. The rest you have to get it from a food supplement or etc, etcetera. All right, I'll leave it on the board. But they can put as much as they want in a tablet. Most of it's kaolin anyway, which a lot of tablets that don't have an active. Most of it's a non active ingredient. I think kaolin is the word. Do you know, this is one for the purists. All right? This is one for the hardcore listeners that is something I remember from the geography teacher who said, don't know, don't need to know. Nobody knows. For some reason, that just stuck in my head. I didn't even do geography at GCSE. I dropped it when I realized that the teacher knew less about the subject than we did. But China clay, I think I've probably got this wrong now, but a lot of tablets, certainly back in the 1980s, not those sort of tablets. Keith, Louise is in Nottingham. Louise, question or answer? Laurie. Laurie's. Do you know what I've done? Laurie? No. Laurie. What I've done, right, is I've lowered my chair slightly because I was worried about my posture on the viral clips, and because I've lowered my chair, I now can't see the screen as clearly as I could before, because the reason my posture was so bad. Keith, this is one of those anecdotes that I was telling you about earlier. The reason my posture is so bad is because I'm leaning forward to see the screen. So now I can't lean forward to see the screen without head butting the microphone. And I thought your name was Louise. Can you ever forgive me? It's not altitude sickness, then? No, it's not altitude sickness. Question or answer? Question or answer? Lauren, carry on. Answer to the spider's question. So, most species of spider or tarantula are sexually dimorphic, so the females grow to be much bigger than the males, which is a bit of a worry because they tend to get eaten when they try to reproduce. But if people are seeing massive spiders in their garden, it's likely a female. The smaller ones tend to have a narrower abdomen, like the back bit of their body. And quite often the males will have little boxing gloves because on their front two legs, because that's what they use to kind of beat the female away while they try and make big spiders. I feel their pain. The question then was built on a fundamental misapprehension that it was either the big ones are older or the big ones are greedier, whereas in fact, the big ones are lady spiders. I think, as with any species, the older they get, and because they also shed their exoskeleton, if they eat more, they will shed their exoskeleton to be able to expand further. But for the most part, if you had to pick one answer, it would be sex. Yes, that's often the answer, isn't it? Whatever the question is. But we're going to put that. Qualifications, qualifications, Laurie. I'm a tarantula keeper and a spider keeper. I've got about 300 spiders. Really? Have you suffered at all during. I mean, have they kept your company during lockdown? Has it been. Do you think it's made it more manageable for you, having so much arachnid company? Absolutely. No, I meant that as a question. It came out sounding a bit silly, but I did actually mean it because the pets have come into their own for us. I mean, even the fish are getting more attention than they normally do, I think. On the subject of fish, that's an interesting one. I keep mine like fish, not. Not in water, but in a tank. And I don't play with them or touch them because they're so fragile, but watching them grow and develop and watching their behaviors and kind of recreating their natural habitats in captivity, it's been a real pleasure to make, like, tiny little harry potter sculptures for them. Oh, I love it. No, I do. That's absolutely mine. And it's got you a mystery round of applause as well. Thank you. Jobs are good. Great work, Laurie. Not bad, right? Not bad. Nice one. It makes up for me calling you Louise. Kay's in. I'd come to Kaye first after the break. I love this text from Chris in Slough. James, can we have a supplementary on the vitamins question? Supplementary vitamins? Unintentional pun. I like it. Oh. In fact, that's the answer to the original question. They're called vitamin supplements, aren't they? Not vitamin replacements. That's the answer. That proves I was right. And Simon in Hampton Hill owes me a very big apology. But anyway, Christian Slough says, can we have a supplementary on the vitamins question? I've just read my pot and they're three years out of date. Are they still working? No, we can't have a supplementary question. I feel very nervous. Veering into medical matters. Thomas Watts is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 412 34 is the time and mystery out continues a bunch of questions still in need of answers involving babies, scorpions. We've done the spiders multivitamins and it's not a personal pro. What is it? It's a proper noun. I is a proper noun with a capital I, isn't it? I don't know. I was hoping someone might hand me a little crib sheet and spare me further embarrassment. But why do we capitalize I when we're saying I as in Eggo in Latin or JE in French? They're not capitalized. If you can answer any of them. And why are multivitamins a percentage of our recommended daily allowance rather than the full hundred percent? If you can answer any of them. Zero. 345-606-0973 Gene is in Felixstowe, a lovely part of the world. Jean, question or answer? Hello? Hello. Actually, James, I phoned up with a question, but I also have an answer to one of the others, so I don't know if you can take both. You're only really allowed to do the question. Jean, I do apologise about the vitamin D. In fact, you can take up to 5000 ius of that. And that is recommended. That's the answer that helps the immune system. Okay. But my question is, I have a battery wall clock, a chiming clock in our sun lounge, and every time it chimes, the radio goes off. It won't come on again until the clock stops chiming. I've been trying for months and months to get on air because it's driving me mad. I'm not surprised. I wonder if anyone, perhaps you even might have an answer for me. Please. What sort of. So. Well, it's a. It's an electric clock. Is it? Is it. No, it's a battery clock. It's about. Yeah, so it's battery. And is it new? How new is it? How long have you had it, Gene? It's always done it. We've had it a few years, but it's always done it. But is it. Do you. Do you. Do you set it yourself or does it set itself automatically? No, no, you said you. It's on a battery, which lasts a long time, at least a year. And how old is it, roughly? The radio? The radio, but no, the clock. The clock, yeah, the clock is about. Probably about three years old, but as I say. But it might be using radio. We're going to get this fixed. We're gonna get this fixed for you, Gene, if we can. If anybody. I don't know. Are you barking up the wrong tree with me? You might know, James. I thought you knew everything. You're very kind. You've clearly read my books, but I don't know the answer to this. I wonder whether it has something to do with the clock setting itself remotely and therefore it's picking up. I'll shut up now, actually, and just get you an answer. Why does Jean's radio go off every time her clock chimes? And you better hurry up with your answer because if you're too close to the 01:00 news, she won't be able to hear it, Gene. Thank you. Take care 1237 is the time. I'm just going to write down Gene's clock. All right? And if you answer that one, I'll be very, very grateful to you. K's in. Ayesha. K, question or answer? Hi. It's an answer. Carry on, Kay. It's about the babies and what time they're born. I like that question. It was a good question. Now, I don't know what nurses do when they describe babies being born, but in terms of when they're registered in the law, it's only the date and time of birth that goes on a birth certificate, because obviously as you get older, yes, your age obviously changes. So the only time we would mention. Hang on, hang on a minute. As you get older, your age changes. Yeah. You can't come on this program without sort of fake news, kay. That's outrageous. Are you some sort of expert? Well, kind of, yeah. I've been getting older myself every day. Go on, carry on. The only time we would actually talk about the age of somebody is if they sadly pass away. So even, even, you know, sadly, it does happen with babies and it would depend on how many minutes, hours, days, months, years after they are born that they pass away as to the age that's on the certificate. But if they. Yeah, but they don't write down the age. So our caller just heard some. I mean, the question wasn't wrong, was it? Or is? Well, I say, I don't know what happens in hospitals and maybe after a change of shift, the nurses might say that this is a. Oh, okay, all right. So we're not. I don't know if we can go definitive on this. After your. What are your qualifications? Registrar of birth and death. Oh, okay. That's up. That. Talk about the ups up. Your job's got a lot of ups and downs, hasn't it? Marriages and civil partnerships, too. So, no, it is an important job. The. So if, God forbid, you were registering the death of a baby that was born at ten to twelve but died at 12:10, that baby would go down as one day, not one day old. No, the rules are actually, it's written down quite strictly. So up to 60 minutes old, they're classed in minutes, up to 48 hours old, they're classed in hours, lived, then after that it up to 14 days, in days lived, then weeks lived up to six months. So I'm going to give you a round of applause, but what is the noise in the background, just out of interest? That's my squealing children, is it? Do you know, I thought you had a parakeet, which. Well, I'll tell her that. Maybe you could still. Maybe you could still swap. I'll give you a round of applause. Tell me about it. Tell me. It's all right. You're your age watching that. Mine are watching things like parks and recreation and I mean, watching like 30 episodes in a 48 hours window. But anyway, I'm gonna give you a round of applause, but I think you killed the question as opposed to answering it, which is, oh, well, that's depressing. Well, at least you can write the certificate. That's true. Thank you, Kay. 1240 is the time Jennifer is in Middlesbrough. Actually, Richard, I wonder which question Richard is referring to. He says you need to be ringing customer services, not mystery hour. Jennifer is in Middlesbrough. Question or answer? Jennifer, answer, carry on. It's about why I is a capital letter. Oh, yes. Okay, you were right the first time. It's a personal pronoun, it's not a proper noun. So the reason that we capitalize I is that we use it in place of a name. So if I were to say James is on the radio, obviously your name has a capital letter, but if I was to say I was on the radio, I'm basically saying Jennifer was on the radio, but talking about myself in the third person is weird. So we use I in place of a name. So because it's a name replacement, we use a capital letter. But that. I don't think I'm moving into pedantic semantics here, but. Well, the question was, why do we only do it in English? Because we don't do it. So if I say je suis sur le radio, I wouldn't use it? Well, I would, because that would be the beginning of the sentence. But you take my point. Yeah, I do. That comes from the way that English has developed over the years. My qualification is an english teacher, and I'd get asked this question all the time, and my response to the students would always be, was it English? Basically developed because it roughed up other languages in the alleys and stole loose grammar out of its pocket. I love that. And we've changed the rules as we've gone along. So we have established that because I is a replacement for a name in English, we established it along with the same rules. What age do you teach? What age do you teach? When I was in the classroom, I left, I was teaching secondary. You must have had a million kids come back at you and say, why don't they do it in French then, miss? Yes. And I'd say, because we're English and we're not French, and because we have actually moved away and English has more of a change. So it's the evolutionary nature. It's all gone a bit Brexit. What you're describing is exceptionalism, really? Pretty much, yeah. Which is. That's why there's more exceptions to some of our rules than there are actual ones that follow rules. And there's some. Basically, English is weird was always my comeback. I like it a lot. And it is. Well, I mean, it is because we've got a mixture of, you know, Saxon, Latin, the romance, like languages, a bit of Greek. I'm going to give you a round of applause, and I think you're right. But I've still got a 10% stake on something to do with printing presses. Okay. Which is often snigger at me. Miss. It is sometimes. These questions do often have something to do with printing presses. But you're confident this one won't? I'm 90% confident. Same here. So that's why I'm keeping 10% on the printing press. Round of applause for Jennifer. Thank you. No, thank you. And I love your way with words, actually. It's a lovely way of describing grammar and language. 1243 is the time already. Damien's in Camden. Damien, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on, Damien. I've got an answer to the multivitamin question. So, the reason that there's not 100% of everything in a multivitamin is that every ingredient takes up a different amount of space to provide a certain amount. You're going to make Simon and Hampton Hill sound more right than me on this. So, basically, you can fit a certain amount in every capsule, and every manufacturer will, you know, devise their own formulation to fit the ingredients that they want to achieve the formulation and nutritional facts that they want for that particular ingredient. I've dropped a massive clangor on this one, haven't I? Yeah, I think so. I think so. Well, hang on a minute. What are your qualifications? So I run a. Run a company that manufactures multivitamins and other nutritional supplements that's about as good as it can go. The interesting thing is that, you know, some ingredients are much more bulky than others. So to get the daily recommended allowance of zinc, for example, it takes a lot more weight in the capsule than, say, vitamin B twelve or something like that. So it is almost a marketing decision rather than a chemical one. I wouldn't say it's a marketing decision. Well, it's a marketing decision in terms of marketing, as in as much as the benefits that you want to provide to the end user. I think the other thing to note is 100% of the recommended daily amount. That's the recommended daily amount. So that. That's not the maximum that you should have. That's what is generally accepted as kind of almost like the minimum that you need to maintain a healthy diet. So was there even a scintilla of truth in my suggestion that it had something to do with avoiding vitamin overdoses? Maybe? Be brutal. No, don't, don't, don't, don't sugar the pill. I'd like to help you out here, James, but no, you are completely wrong. Yeah. Thank you. There you go. That's what we need. That's the kind of honesty we need now, clarity and leadership from Damien. Vitamin overdoses are, you know, are obviously a thing, so you're right in that respect. But, you know, obviously all manufacturers will be keeping well below what are. And there are declared what are called maximum. I think they're called maximum tolerance, maximum tolerable levels over a certain period of time. And they're all defined by the EU. I'm sure we'll get our own ones now post Brexit. Yeah, exactly. We want british vitamin laws, control our own vitamins. There you go. There's a tangible. And we need more vitamin C. Yes, I'm with you. That's a brilliant answer, really. And, I mean, the qualifications are exceptional. Is that a ray? I'm just going to let Keith decide. Come on. I mean, he literally runs. What's the name of your vitamins company, just in case you form nutrition. So we manufacture kind of vegan proteins and nutritional supplements as well, and multivitamins, especially formulated for vegans and anyone looking to reduce meat intake. That's really interesting, actually. And the producers just put your website up on the. On the screen. It looks really smart. However, there is one final question, and I will be to tell Damien whether you answer this question honestly or not. All right. Were you listening to mystery out or were you alerted to the question by a friend who was keen to afford you an opportunity to promote your wares? I listen to you all the time, actually. But I did, obviously. I mean, actually, if you can check with your producers, I've phoned in a lot before, they're no good. I can tell that you're telling me the truth. My antennae are not twitching. My antennae are not twitching, which means you do qualify for one of these. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien. On LBC. If you build it, they will come. Nice work, Damien. Thank you. So I'm very happy. First time I got through and you got a rayliota. Well, that's. It's downhill all the way now. That's it. You've peace. I'm on the way to the office. It probably is. Very briefly, is Kaolin still a thing in your. In that world? Not necessarily your particular products, but Kaolin's a big part of pills, right? Still, I've never heard of Kaylin Lord. Quick, pretend to scratch that. Press rewind. Dump. Dump it. Put on the Steve Allen emergency tape. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1251 is the time. Little bit of housework. When we were discussing problems companies were facing servicing their customers on the continent, in countries that remain in the single market, in the customs union, or the 21st century, if you prefer. We heard from Richard, didn't we, at the Bavarian beer Company. Well, I'd just like to thank him for sending me a box of beer, which has gone down extremely well. Thank you. Just for the record, you don't have to actually have your own beer company to send me a box of beer. Anyone is welcome to do so. 1252 is the time. And back to mystery are only two questions in need of an answer. Why does Jean's clock. Why does Jean's radio conk out every time her clock chimes? Zero, 345-606-0973 and are scorpions susceptible to scorpion venom? Zero, 345-606-0973 Barry's in Bristol. Barry, question or answer? I have a question. James, how are you? Very well. Barry, what is your question? So before we get into the question bit, I just need to ask you to excoriate Will, because apparently he's the reason that I've been on hold for 50 minutes. We're getting a lot of complaints about young Will at the moment. I don't know if this is the correct place in which to examine them to. Well, 50 minutes you've been on hold. I was specifically told that it was Will's fault. So by the. Sounds like someone. No, someone is throwing will under the bus, which is a mode of behavior that I've never encountered before from my production team. Carry on, Barry. Quickly, before you forget what the question is. Yeah, no worries. Okay, so I've got a question about birds, as I normally do when I find the show, this particular question is about. So I'm going to be specific. Some birds change color between seasons, right? Yeah. Now, obviously, there are some, like, a ptarmigan that goes from brown to white, because it's about camouflage. But the one that confused me, I was walking around a lake the other day and I looked over and I saw a bunch of black headed gulls. Yeah. And I remembered that black headed gulls, they changed the color of just the cap of their head between summer and winter. And they go black in the summer and white, but with a sort of little bit black blusher on their cheek in the winter. And I wonder what the reason for that would be, because I can't account so specific to a goal. Why does their head change color? The black headed goal. Why black headed goal change colour between seasons? Well, you've left it late, but we'll try and get you an answer. So, black headed goal specifically because I guess the obvious answer would be to do with the mating season. But we need a why, not a what? I like that. Thank you. Barry Duncan's in Bicester. Duncan. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Duncan. It's an answer to the clock question. It happens to be a compliance issue. It's very difficult to explain and make it interesting. I'm very clever. Most. It's an EMC problem. You've lost me already. EMC? Electromagnetic performance. You're of the right age to. Don't get me, I'm almost behind. I'm just behind you to. Remember the old cathode ray tube televisions. Yes, of course. Just. And when you ever put a hoover next to it, it used to do funny things. Well, it's exactly the same issue. So is the electromagnetic current coming out of the clock when it chimes is interfering with the radio. Yeah. Then the easiest way to do it is to move your radio, other than coat it in something that stops the electric charge. Like a tin. Like a tinfoil Faraday box is to move it away. Yeah. So Gene needs to move her radio. Needs to move her radio. Or the clock. Further away from the clock. Or the clock. The clock's probably harder to move because it's on the wall. Round of applause. Qualifications? I am an EMC and compliance engineer. Well, that's pretty close to the bone and you're on the money with your answer. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. So, leaving the scorpions question for a moment, I'm going to do an advertisement for a podcast series presented by, probably, for me at least, the best broadcaster in the country. I thought pulling down a statue of a slaver was a no brainer. Even as someone who spends a lot of time at the coal face of anti racism or at the coal face of equality. It never crossed my mind that pulling down a slaver would cause outrage or that you would be able to whip up a frenzied mobile, not quite calling for it to be put back up again, but certainly calling for the people who pulled it down to be punished. In the. In the roundest of terms. You must have been one of the least surprised people in the country by the aftermath of that moment. I was surprised because when I began my book, it was such an esoteric subject. Yes, yes, yes. And then suddenly on the news, I remember sitting with my nieces and all of us stunned that it was on the news every day for a week. And so I think there's a whole new generation of people who are really feeling strongly about colonialism and how it explains systemic racism. But at the same time, you have this backlash amongst a sect of right wing Tories who realized you can sow division around Empire, and it plays really well. So we had Robert Jenrick the other day writing a column on why we need to introduce legislation to protect slave statues or protect statues. In the week, it was revealed that we had the highest death rate from coronavirus in the world. Why did he do that? I think they've realized that it plays well in focus groups and with the public. There's an idea that to be proud of being british, you need to be proud of british history, even though it's 500 years and very complicated. And so they're just playing it in the way they played the public with Brexit instead of the EU. You now have british imperial history. You have woke people complaining about british imperial history. It's really cynical. It is. And it's also pretty simple. Probably more simple than people like you and I allow, or people like I allow. You've explained it perfectly because you want it to be more complicated and it's even more insulting for the people you're critiquing when you describe what's being done to them as a really two dimensional, utterly transparent bit of sort of demagoguery driven con job, but they are gone. And Churchill, I'm sorry, Boris Johnson did the same. There's a mistake not many people make, except perhaps Boris Johnson. He wishes. But at the start of the pandemic, you know, I think he wrote a column, or at least said that he was going to protect the Churchill statue with last living breath, even though no one was going to tear down that Churchill. Yes, of course no one was going to do that. And also but why, why didn't he just concentrate on the pandemic? Because it works. And this is what is simultaneously, I imagine for you, so dispiriting and yet also so exciting. Satnam Saghira there, the author of a new book, a brilliant new book, Empire Land, which I would, if you're interested in facts and understanding, I really would urge you to read, if you're interested in kind of bovine fury and evidence free bitterness, then don't go near it, seriously, because it might cure you. Hand on heart, you know why there was a little pause at the beginning there because we had the clip ready. Full disclosure is my, is my podcast. So Satnam this week, Tim Roth last week, something for everybody. Got Tony Blair on there, Steve Coogan, all manner of Malgra Atwood, loads and load, download it, go wherever you go to get your podcast. The reason why there was a pause, genuinely, is because when I did that sort of false self deprecation thing about this being presented by the best broadcaster in the country, Keith had the clip ready of, of a podcast presented by me and he thought, he genuinely thought I must have been talking about something else. And Keith works with me every day. I don't know why I bother. That's it for another day. We shall do it again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Tom Swarbrick. James, thank you very much. Yes. Afternoon, all. Welcome to the show at 01:00 there is uncertainty and we've all lived with that for the last year now. I absolutely hope for a great british summer. Carry on. Over camping, government mixed messages on how free the summer might be, apparently now causing confusion. What the government is doing now is bordering on the very dangerous, to be perfectly honest. It is robbing people of hope. It is robbing people of something to look forward to and it is very, very stupid and very, very short sighted. Ministers have oscillated between holidays being on or off, as the health secretary says, he's booked one. The transport secretary saying it's all too soon. Apparently this is leading to confusion. Is this what incompetence? Is it confusing? Or is it the government displaying the uncertainty that we're all trying to live with?