Do farm animals have friends?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. I'm just giggling. Well, I'll tell you later. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. But you knew that already. You ring in with a question, someone else rings in with the answer. Somehow the magic happens in the margins. I don't know why it's so much more than a mere Q and A or notes and queries. It transcends the parameters of traditional radio and somehow visits parts that no other program has yet managed to reach. It's even spawned a board game. Would you believe how many radio features have spawned board? That's not a quest. Don't at me. I know there are a few, but the mystery outboard game is brilliant and you can win one by simply being my favorite contributor of the day. Where else do you get the chance to do that on the radio? Win a board game for being brilliant in my contribution. Well, I'll have a bit of that. James, where do I sign up? Here. Full terms and conditions at LBC Dot co dot uk dot. Don't look anything up. Don't, you know, cheat. You got to know why. You know the answer. So you'll tell me the answer and I say, what are your qualifications? And you'll say, well, I am the first lady in waiting to the Earl of Curmudgeon, for example. And the Earl of Curmudgeon, of course, famously invented peppermint creams. Oh, God. Well, that's fantastic. Or you could be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, for example. Or you might just have seen it on telly last night. It doesn't have to be an I falutin qualification, it is just simply, how do you know that thing? You know? And I just want to say thank you to Steve, who sent me a. And you've just texted Steve. I couldn't find your website because I wanted to turn people's attention towards the work that you do. But Steve makes sort of led number plates. You can plug it into your computer and the number plate. And he made me a beautiful mystery hour led number plate that I shall tweet a picture of either in the course of or shortly after today's program. It's just for my desk, you know, it's a lovely bit of kit. And speaking of things that I tweet, something rather lovely happened, albeit in a grim context. Tony Husband, the cartoonist. Cartoonist to appear on the program today after Graham Bandera. Tony Husband, whose work I have been enjoying since I was a boy. And I used to get my dad's private eye. And for the first few times I read private, I only really looked at the cartoons. And Tony husband remains one of my absolute all time favorite cartoonists. And he's tweeted me this morning with a juxtaposition, shall we say, of two farewells in cartoon form. And it's a work of art, is what it is. And I'm not going to tell you what it is. I'm just going to tell you that it is the last thing that was tweeted from my account. So go and have a look for yourself. That is. Yeah, it's amazing the power that a brilliant cartoon can have, but that one will pull the rug from beneath your feet. So just go to at Mister James Ob, or indeed Tony husband one, and have a look at that absolutely brilliant piece of political commentary, to put it mildly. 1207 is the time Lee is in Manchester. Lee, question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on, mate. It's Lee, the tattoo teacher. By the way, I met you a few weeks ago outside the studio. How are you? Yeah, I was stalking you. It was lovely to see you. Had a good trip? Yeah. You have to make some about going to Norfolk to get out, going for a pint. Get ridiculous. I even introduced you to Johnny Vaughan, didn't I? You did indeed. Just you, me and Johnny hanging out in Leicester squarely. It was a happy, happy days, dream come true. Dream come true for all of us. What's the question? Question is the farm animals have friends. Oh, now, I don't know at this point, you know, I'm gonna say, well, you try and answer it all. You say, oh, just loving it. I'm just loving it. Yeah. Beautiful Donegal with my wife just before Christmas. And we went past, obviously, like, hundreds of fields. And it was sheep, mostly sheep, but also cows. And we thought, I wonder if. Because it just seems to just be standing there eating the grass, you know, not doing much else, but I wonder if they, like, hang around with the friends or. Or whether, you know. So a farmer would know, I would imagine, because he'd know. You see, like. I mean, you see like a. You know, a pig looking after a puppy, don't you, and things. But that doesn't count. That's more of a parental surrogate. A surrogate parent. You don't mean that. Yeah, I don't mean. You just mean mates. Yeah. Mates. Yeah. Like when you see, like, I'm a skilled. So you see kids in the playground. So we're the same three cows. Will the same three cows be hanging out in the field together? Exactly, yeah. I love this question. What do you reckon? We don't know because we were looking for donkeys. Because we know that donkeys often are in pairs, aren't they? And they very. They seem very close, but we just wonder if it was, if it applied to or. They're animals. I wish. You'll find out for you mate. Most notably sheep and cows, I would imagine. Most notably sheep and cows. Penguins. That usually cited penguins? Possibly. Would that count? Or does it have to be farm animals? Do you mean because they mate for life? No, they just seem to hang out a bit with each other, don't they? I don't really, no. I don't know either. Keith just said the word penguins in my ear, so I said it out loud. I've just got to stop doing that, really, Lee, to be honest with you, gets me into all sorts of both. Stop listening to Keith. Yes, exactly. So, penguins hungry? I shall find out for you. All right. Do farm animals have friends? And thank you for saying hello. That was fun. I have a completely. As you well know, Lee, I've completely overcome my irrational aversion to tattooed teachers. Something I look back on with a degree of embarrassment. Ten minutes after twelve is the time Andy is in Brighton. Andy, question or answer? Oh, afternoon, James. I've got a question for you. Yes? Why is planet Earth called planet Earth? We know that Jupiter and Venus and Mercury and the others are roman and greek gods. Why? Whose name? The Earth. The Earth? And what? Why? Yeah, I mean, this is going to be biblical, isn't it? Well, I'm not a. I'm not a religious man, particularly. We don't have to be. You're aware of the Bible? I might have heard of it, but I don't think. Is it. I don't know how it ends. I don't know if it is biblical. I don't know. You would know, you're the. But it wasn't discovered, so. So we discovered the other planet. You discover something, you give it a name and they chose to name. I think actually, you go back. They did. They not believe that the planets were the gods. But was there not a kind of conflation? If you like. So you'd say that is Jupiter? Depends. Because they didn't back in those days, of course, they couldn't see them all. So then there was a. It would have quite a lot. Pythagoras and people like that could see. Yeah. The Copernicus and. Yes. But I don't think he saw Neptune, and Neptune, you know, he was God of the sea, wasn't he? And I don't. I think it's more. There's a tradition of naming the planets after. Yeah, I just think that's a bit of a. That's a bit of a red herring that I think the question is, why is the Earth called Earth? I don't think we need to bring the other planets into it. Well, okay. Yes, all right. But. Yeah, all right. Well, then why is it? Why? That is my question. Yeah, I know, I know. So it's either gonna hit me with your knowledge I've got a clue. I'll stop now. Why is Earth called Earth? Why is the Earth called Earth? Yes, all right. Now, it probably comes from the word for Earth, whatever, you know, as in soil. So be like the other way around. No, it wouldn't be the other way around because you wouldn't have been conscious of the planet. That's true. In the early, in the dawning days of language, you'd have a word for the ground beneath your feet and then that might. Well, it is, in a way, Earth and soil are synonyms in this context, aren't they? You can have a barrow full of Earth. Well, that depend. That's just the. That's just the beauty card. Depends what language gets the gets. Gets ahead. I like planet mud. Planet mud. Sonic field. I used a nightclub in Kidderminster in the 1980s. All right. Twelve minutes after twelve. Why is Earth called Earth? And do farm animals have friends? That's got it. That's a great start, isn't it? That's a great start. Gary's in Edinburgh. Gary, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. And good afternoon as well. And to you, too. My question is, why do we use the word ship after certain words? Ship with a p. Ship. Yeah. S h I p. Yeah, I was just checking, because there's a word a bit like that I use after certain politicians, but not while I'm live on the radio. So you mean like lordship? Yeah, like sportsmanship, because there's a different sort of variety words that we do, like hardship as well. That's just a couple of examples, but I'm just wondering why we use that word and what actually means at the end of other words. I like that. It's a suffix, isn't it? A suffix? Yeah. Stuff. I'm very clever myself, so that's why I'm phoning you for your audience. I don't know what it. But it. What does it refer to? It. So it will come from Anglo Saxon or something like that, won't it? I like it a lot. Well, yeah, so. And not as in a mother ship. So an actual ship. Why does the same word that we use to describe a big boat get stuck on the other words to describe a sort of role? Almost like sportsmanship, for example. Good. Does it come in and why is it chopped on the end of it? Sportsmanship. I like it. I like it a lot, Gary. Okay, nice one. Thanks, James. Thank you, mate. Great question. Sportsmanship, hardship. Don't just send me lots of ships. Where is it? I like it. Where does it come from? Oliver is in Nottingham. Oliver, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Come on, then. Why do we only get growing pains for a relatively short amount of time compared to how long we grow for? When do you get growing pains? Like when you're about eight or nine. Do you? Yeah, you get growing pains, but you only seem to get them for a short amount of time. Where do you get the pains? Well, I remember when I was young, I had them in my legs a lot. Well, that might be the answer, but, I mean, I've spoke to my partner and she says that she works in a school, she has kids in classes that are about eight or nine years old that complain about growing pains. Well, it's obviously the legs. The legs are doing something that they stopped doing at. Around puberty. So what would it be? Because your legs don't stop. Your legs don't stop growing, do they, before the rest of you does. Otherwise everyone will be walking around looking like there's a lady in the Daily Mail today described as being known for having the longest legs in Belgravia. Oliver. So everyone would look like her until they were about 13. So the bones. But where? Yeah, you're right. No, just the legs. Apparently, it's all about the legs. Well, they've got. There's a lot of weight on your legs. There's not much weight on your arms, is there? I suppose so. So you see, it could be the weight, the weight of your body on your legs before. Wait until your legs develop a bit more strength to support. I'll put it on the list. You get them any earlier than that? Well, some people do, I'm told. Some people do, yeah. It covers pretty much all of your sort of post toddler, pre puberty childhood. You could get growing pains in your. In your legs, in your pins okay, I'll find out for you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That's an excellent question. In fact, it's a clutch of quality questions. At the end of the first junction of this week's mystery hour. It's 90 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on rpg questions in need of answers. Do farm animals have friends? They're blooming well. Better. I'm gonna be absolutely heartbroken if they don't. Why is the earth called the earth called Earth? Earth. Earth. Why do we stick ship on the end of some words like hardship or sportsmanship? And why do we only get growing pains in a brief period of our lives? Why do growing pains not why don't we get more growing pains? Why do they stop before we've stopped growing? There we go. We got there in the end. Thank you. Joe's in Newcastle. Joe, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. The question is, can you learn new information in your sleep? So could I listen to a french language tape overnight and wake up having learned French? What, in one night? Well, not in one night, but, you know, you sometimes see on the tv, they wake up and all of a sudden they speak French. When do you see that on the tv? I don't know what you're talking about, Joe. Can I learn the information in my sleep? That's the question. So, I mean, I will get other answers to this if you. So you put it so it's not designed to be learnt in your sleep. It's designed for you to be awake when you're listening to it. So you're asking, would it work in my sleep? Are you talking about a product that tells you that it can actually. And you want to know whether it's true? No. Would it work in my sleep if I was listening to, like, an audio tape? So a normal french language lesson on tape? Yeah. Which you're supposed to listen to awake. Would it work if you fell asleep? I've got a couple of answers to this. One might be a bit weird. The first is that for my a level in religious history, it was a double paper. One paper was history and the other paper was Bible stuff. And I taped myself reading St Paul's letter to the Corinthians and then fell asleep with it on. On my walkman all night on loop. Do you remember? You could put your walkman on loop. It'd get to the end of one side of the tape and then start again on the other. Yeah. And for the duration of that exam, I had almost total recall of St Paul's letter to the Corinthians. I think you might be onto it. I absolutely smashed an a, but by tea time that day, I couldn't have told you anything. So it got in there, but not necessarily for very long. I think you might be onto it. Well, yeah, yeah, but you don't want to be, you know, fluent in French on your way out there and then you get there and it's all fallen out again. And the other thing is hypnosis tapes. I've had a crack at hypnosis tapes lately and they don't. It doesn't matter if you nod off, you still get the effect of the. Yeah, but anyway, I mean, I don't know. I'm just giving you some anecdotal evidence. It's an opportunity to boast about my a levels. 42, 42, 32 years. Right. I'll find out. Do they work? Because if they do, we should all be fluent by Christmas, shouldn't we? Yeah, we should, definitely. You're on, Joe. I shall try and find out. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I do enjoy texts, but if there is an hour when I don't read them much, it is probably during mischievous. We don't let them contribute to the program proper. Ben in Lester, however, deserves a quick mention for saying, I listen to James O'Brien's compilations at night and I still don't have a wit anywhere close to his. Ben, you're very kind. If that is indeed intended as a compliment. Lauren's in great Dunmo. Lauren, question or answer? Hello. It's a question. I'm quite starstruck, actually, talking to you on the phone. Honestly, I'm kind of like. My heart's racing and everything. Thank you. I feel like a little school child. It'll be a massive anti climax, that much I can guarantee. And I was going to say. And the question from a view isn't. Well, I was going to say, it's not the greatest, but I hope it is. I want to know how or why a boomerang comes back. Oh, that's brilliant. What, you mean the physics? That's absolutely brilliant. I can't believe we've never heard that before. Oh, thank you. I'm really hot. Thanks for the update. You mean the physics? I literally feel like a school child. The physics of it. The physics of it. Nothing else comes up. So what is it about a boomerang and that? Presumably slightly something to do with the way that you throw it, that it that it comes from. Well, or the shape of it, maybe, I don't know. But how does it come? Have you ever done it? No. I've done a frisbee. No. Does a frisbee come back? Only if it catches the wind and sort of floats back to you by accident. But not. Not really. There might be a way to do, but no. A boomerang. Because I've done it. But it didn't come back. So it must have something to do with the way that you see. It does come back though, doesn't it? Well, they do come if they're done correctly, Lauren. I mean, they're famous for it. It's practically. It's practically a figure of speech. I'll find out. I mean, if anyone knows. It can't be magic, can it? Someone's gonna have to be able to. I'm fairly confident. Right, you're on. That is a brilliant question, Lauren, as well. Honestly, I'm so proud to talk to you. I'm really proud of myself. Very proud of you as well now. And also a superb question. Astonishing questions. We're all going to blow it now by not getting any answers. Oh, my. But there it is. How does a boomerang work? 24 minutes after twelve? Jamie's in. Carefully. Question or answer? Jamie, answer. Carry on. It better be the one I want it to be. Well, it's farm animals. Yes. And I. I can only talk for chickens and I'm not a farmer. Okay. I have three pet chickens, two I raised from chicks, and the other one's a recharge battery. Rescue chicken. Oh, yes. So the two are raised from chicks. Thick as thieves go everywhere together. If I pick one of them up, the other one will follow me round. If one doesn't know where the other one is, they will start shouting for the other one. And as soon as they realize where the other one is, we'll run to it. The other one's all right is a mate will hang around, but. So those other two phones zoning in and out. It sounds like your voice is coming up, coming in and out of. I like this qualifications. You keep three chickens, is that right? I told you the voice phone was going fine. What's happened? Are you all right? Yeah, I'm fine. I play Airpods rather than my. Okay, that's, that's suboptimal. I think that we're always. I'll asking people to speak into their phone properly if they can. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I am also going to leave the question on the board, because it's not farmyard. And to be fair, if there's only three chickens, you're probably going to strike up a friendship with one of them, aren't you? Just out of. Well, I don't know, but I'm looking for probably more farm based evidence than Jamie provided. But he got his round of applause and don't let anybody take it away from him. Curtis in Torquay. Question or answer? Carry on. I've got an echo here now as well. What's happening to the phone lines? Hello? Get off speaker. Get off headphones. Talk to me normally. That's better. Thank you. Carry on. Yeah. Lovely to speak to you. Likewise, likewise. Okay, it's an answer to the groin pains. Yes. Okay, it is. Because when you get a groin spurt, some people get groin spurts. The bones grow quicker than the tendons and that's what causes the pain. And it can also make you very clumsy as well. So why does it stop then, once you get to twelve ish? Well, it's not necessarily twelve. It can be any. Any age. Okay. Okay ish. But, yeah. The reason why I know this, I met my wife back in 87, and she told me that her brother had been through these growing pains, and she told me the reasons for it. I never had growing pains because I ended up five foot six and a half. So I really never really had those. I didn't have that spur. So it's a period when the. The growth of the bone is outstripping the ligament. So the ligaments hurt. Yeah. And also you become clumsy because they're a little bit like elastic bands. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So they'll move. You won't have as much control over them as you would have done when you finished growing. That's right. What are your wife's qualifications to know this? Well, because it's. It's a. It's her brother. It's not really medical, is it? No, it's not. It's not at all. It's just knowledge that I happen to happen to know. Well, I think that's fine, actually. I can't get all high horse. So it's mystery hour, isn't it? You're allowed to pick up the information anywhere you want. I don't know that it's definitive. Because your wife might be a massive liar. No. Well, no, she's not a massive liar. Are you sure? Did you hear the last hour? They're all over the place. She wasn't a liar about the banana question, was she? About the bipolar? This is very true. This is very true. Right, you're on. Okay, you get it. So it's when the bones are growing faster than the ligaments, so the ligaments start hurting. It makes perfect sense. Okay. Round of applause for cut. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I like. That's a lovely question to a lovely. A lovely answer to a lovely question. I hope Kurt is happy. 28 minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Stephen's in Edgeware. Stephen, question or answer? Question. Last time I answered a few months ago about the question on dental pain. I don't know if you remember. So today I've got a question that's always bothered me. Go on, then. Which is, in most of the world, left wing parties are red and right wing parties are blue. Oh, yes. In America, it's the other way around. The Democrat party is blue and the republican party is red. And I've never really understood why. I have had exactly the same thought this very week, would you believe? Oh, there you go. Great. Nice. Think alike. This is the red flag, I suppose, most obviously. Or the red of communism. The red of left. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, no, we understand that way. I know, I know, I know, I know. But why did I see the other way around? Why have the Americans done it differently? Because Murdoch's quoted in this astonishing dominion case of saying something like, we don't care about red or blue, we only care about green, referring to money. And I thought, oh, that. Because I'm writing the Rupert Murdoch chapter of my new book at the moment. And I thought, oh, that's quite useful, actually, because oddly, it applies to America and to the UK. But. But the other way around is they care about neither. They care only about monetizing a political division. You're on, Stephen. I like it a lot. Red or blue? Why is blue right wing and red left wing pretty much everywhere in the world or the western world except America. It's coming up to 12:30 and Lottie Morley has your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three. 4560-609-7333 minutes after twelve is the time. Can farm animals have friends? Why is the earth called the earth? Why do we put ship on the end of words like mother? No. Sportsmanship. Growth. Done. The growth spurts one I thought we did very successfully. What does that say? French tapes. Oh, yeah. Can you learn stuff in your sleep by listening to it on tapes? How do boomerangs work? And why is red left wing and blue right wing everywhere except America. Rebecca is in Modbury in Devon. Farming country it is. Hello. Hello. Question or answer? It's an answer. I am a farmer. Yes, I'm a sheep farmer. And yes, farm animals do have friends. Get in. How do you know? Well, we have a flock of over 100 sheep at the moment, but beforehand, I farm pigs and I farm cattle and I farm goats. With the flock, you have all sorts of personalities. But if, say, we have orphan lambs that are raised together, they will stay together, they will play together and then they grow up together. And because of all of this, myself, I no longer can sell meat off my animals. I just sell them as police and they live into old age. Because you see their personalities too clearly. Yeah, too clearly. And so you have matriarchs, you also have bullies, but you have ones that are jokers and you have all sorts of characters within them. So, yes, that is true. They're our friends. I love that. Qualifications. Tell me the sad thing about the pigs. Oh. Oh, gosh, yes. Do you think you should? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know if anyone's eaten a bacon sauna at the moment. Probably not pigs. So, yes, I did venture into pigs. I knew it was bad news because they are so smart and we had eight of them and we put four of them into slaughter and the other four mourned and called for days afterwards. So I think we've just created thousands of vegetarians live on the race. I know, I know. I had to give them away as they therapy pigs. I had went off that way. But, yes, no, I'm too touchy feely, really, to be a farmer, but I'm from farming stock. Yes, you do sound like a rubbish farmer, if you don't mind me saying so. That's the first rule of farming, you sell your have to be hard. But I do. I know exactly where you're coming from. Someone else has told me. Apparently there has been some research and even you can do it by heart rate when they're with their friends. Some animals, cows in particular, even their heart rate slows slightly. They relax more and they recognize people as well. They've got amazing memories. That's the other thing. So they recognize our vet and they know when the vet's in and they know it's trouble and then they'll know if I'm coming in and if strangers are coming in, they know to run up to me if strangers are with me, because I know I usually have sheet nuts on me if it's a stranger. Lovely stuff. But if it's. Yeah, so there's lots. That's a beautiful answer. Beautiful. But also quite bleak in places. Oh, no, no. But the bleakness is something that you disapprove of. You're not. You're not celebrating the bleakness. You're mourning the bleakness like the pigs, their friends. Yes. Yes. I hope that answers for you. It's a lovely answer. Round of applause for Rebecca. That's a beautiful answer. And thank goodness, because it would have been terrible to discover that farm animals don't have friends. You'd never be able to watch babe in quite the same way again, would you? Andy's in Eastbourne. Andy, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Andy. Okay. Can a human being simultaneously count two things in their head which are going at different frequencies? I think I've tightened this up so you can't amend it. Can I give you an example? Yeah. So I've done a lot of running in the past, and I still run a lot, but I don't wear a watch. And so often, to measure how fast I'm going, I use someone running in front of me as a marker. And the other days someone was 80. And then I count my paces until I reach the same marker as them. Yeah. And the other day it was 80. We continued for five or ten minutes. I never caught this person up. Right. But there was no marker. But then a gentleman was walking in the opposite direction. Yeah. So I tried to count my paces until I passed the gentleman and his paces walking towards me from the other person that was running, and I couldn't do it. I mean, it's only counting, James. I hope it's not, is it? I've got absolutely no idea what you're talking about. Let me just check. Hang on. Who put him. Who put Andy through? God, you're not having a good day. Am I being thick? Can we just establish whether or not the person who put the question through understood the question? Yes, Keith, do you understand the question? Kind of's not good enough, is it? So, can I count? You mean, can I count two things at the same time at different paces? Yes. That be like a drummer, wouldn't it? A drummer. Your bass drum is going and then your snare drums going a lot faster. So you're doing two different frequencies. Is that what you mean? Yes. But they're not counting. No, but. So the difference would be actually trying to keep count simultaneously. I'm pretty sure you can but how would we know? Well, if someone has done it, did you not succeed? Did you try? Did you try to do it? Did you try to do it? I did, yes. Did it feel within reach, Andy, or not? Yes, it did. It did, yes. That's what I thought you were going to say. It's as if I just. If I just practice or I find the correct technique, I reckon I could do this. Yes, exactly that. Yeah. You could just use your phone. How could I use my phone? To count stuff. Right, so you could do one in your head simultaneously. Yeah. One in your head and one on your phone. This phone will count your steps and you can, in your head, count somebody else's. I don't know. I'm tapping. It's another reason never to go running. I don't know. I shall find out. Can. Can a human being count at two different paces or frequencies at the same time? Two things in the same head, like two counters. Two counters in the same brain. Brilliant. Thanks. All right, you're on. 1239 is the time. Ah, Wayne's in Basildon. Wayne, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's an answer to the Republicans and Democrats. And the colors, is it indeed? Yes. Basically, it's anomalous to american politics because basically the Republicans used to be the left wing party. Abraham Lincoln was a Republican and he was an advocate for free and slaves, whereas the Democrats were all sort of like, they were part of the slave owning classes and they wanted to keep slavery. So you've heard of the Dixiecrats, right? Yes, that's what they were known as in the sixties. So what happened was the politics flipped in the sixties. So the Dixiecrats then became the Democrats, became the left wing party, and then the Republicans became more sort of capitalist right wingers. Yeah. So, yeah, that's. That's basically why it's anomalous to America, because they were, they kept the colors after they switched political direction. Why did they switch political direction? I don't know. I would imagine it's something to do with the civil rights movement, but you probably have to get an American on to put some more flesh in the bone. No, you know you've done it. I mean, so their colors were traditionally aligned with other country's political traditions, but come whenever it was, they switched. Yeah. And my qualifications are, I watch a lot of american online news because I do a podcast myself with Americans and have to sort of understand what's going on over there. And I learned it actually from a guy called Cenk Hugo, who presents the Young Turks. And he's always banging on about it. There you go. And anybody who wants to enjoy your podcast that you do with Americans, Wayne, how can they get hold of it? Oh, it's called the Bing podcast on Twitch and on YouTube. And you'll see myself and my pod mates there every Thursday, 08:00 central european time. Should we call it a fiver for that? Just a beer. Call it a pint. The bin pod. B I n, as in bin. The bin podcast. Wayne, thank you very much. Round of applause for Wayne in Basildon. Denise is in Ayrshire. Denise, question or answer? Hello. It's the answer to the blue and red. Well, I think we just got it. I didn't hear it because I turned my tv down because I was speaking to your researcher. I am told by my crack team of operatives that your answer is going to embellish the answer that we've already been given. So carry on. Well, the red and the blue in America, I think this is possibly what you've had answered, is because Democrats were originally the. The conservatives in America, that changed. Yes, exactly. The red that symbolizes left wing comes from the blood of the workers, from when workers first started to fight back. They started to organize. Love it. And if you think about it in terms of. Because this is why it suddenly came back. It was in the thirties. It was in the thirties with FDR. The flip, I think, on the Republican Democrats. You could be right about that. I can't remember everything I saw in that program, but the blood of the workers, if you think about the song in Les Mis, which is why I looked it up years ago. Yes. The blood of the workers will water the meadows of France. Oh, and that was. That's where the red came from. I'm not sure that it was from the French Revolution. It doesn't matter. It's the blood of the workers. That's where it comes from. The blood of the workers is red. And it was them fighting against their oppression. It's a great musical. It is a fantastic musical. I've seen it many, many, many times. I've only seen it once, but if I have all the musicals, I might go and see again. That would be. I've seen wicked about five times, but that's because of the age of my. I've never seen wicked. It doesn't appeal to me. Oh, come on, Denise. It's a crazy. I'm sorry. It's an absolute belter. It really is. Qualifications? Musicals. Yeah. Three favorites. Blame is Miss Saigon in Chicago. Yeah. Okay, so I can see if you've never seen Chicago, I have seen Chicago. It's fabulous. It's completely different from the film. Yeah. Compared to the film. They often. Yeah. So as lame is actually. But in also in a good way. Also in a good way. Qualifications? Qualifications for what? For knowing the thing that you just told me about. Red and blue. I'm a geek. Well, I need a bit more geek. I need a little. I'm a bit of a geek on american politics. I really enjoy american politics. And I often watch late night programs and I can't sleep. I'll get up and I'll watch some random documentary. I like it. No, you get a round of applause for Denise. Oh, thank you. No, you're very welcome. Very welcome. It's coming up to quarter to one, so we've done that one. What was that? Yeah. Okay. Put it red and blue. I really want to know how a boomerang works, and so does Lauren. Okay. So someone can explain that to me. That would be great. Can you learn stuff in your sleep by playing tapes in your ears? And why is the earth called the earth? And why do we stick the ship as a suffix on the back of certain words? It's 1245. It is 1249. And as if it wasn't exciting enough to have Tony Hosbin getting in touch, that cartoon, by the way, touching an awful lot of you. I think the text that touched me most was the one that simply said, I'm crying in my van looking at that cartoon. Tony, they're comparing two farewells, one undertaken by Boris Johnson towards staff, one undertaken by a son towards a parent towards a mother at the same point in british history. And then, remarkably, Dana Craig, who wrote the narcissist's prayer, has been in touch as well. So we shall probably have a chat with her about that prayer at some point in the not too distant future that as a consequence, I think of Twitter as opposed to the radio show. 1249 is the time. Back to mystery out. Robin's in Manchester. Robin, question or answer? Answer for you, James. Bring it on. The boomerang. Yes. So a boomerang is basically, it's shaped a bit like an aeroplane wing. Yes. Got a curved top surface and a slightly flatter under surface. Okay. And like an aeroplane's wing, when that cuts through the air, the air has to travel slightly faster over the top curved surface than it does under the bottom surface. So this creates a pressure difference. The pressure is slightly lower above the wing and higher below, and that's what creates lift on a normal aeroplane wing. Right. So then when you throw a boomerang, it's spinning and rotating through the air, but you throw it at a slight angle. So that creates that slightly higher pressure on the outside of the circle and lower pressure on the inside, so that higher pressure is always then forcing it round in a circular motion as it continues to spin. And it's the same reason that an aeroplane, when it wants to bank left or right, just tips its wings. Tips, yeah. So it's the tip that creates the turning rather than. Otherwise they would just keep the wings horizontal when they turn. Well. Well, um. Qualifications? It's applied a level physics. That'll do, won't it? Have you ever thrown a boomerang? I have, successfully. Well, it kind of nearly came back, but not quite. Hang on a minute. It either comes back or it doesn't. Well, it kind of goes around the corner and doesn't go straight. But it began the journey back but ran out of puff or ran out of angle. Yes. Probably my weak arm. And to get it absolutely bang on, you need to throw it at bang on the right angle as well, because technique. A lot of technique involved in this. Absolutely. I like it a lot. I like it a lot. I'd love to be. I don't know why I make a little list of things I never. Look. Can you make a noise with a blade of grass between your thumbs? Yes. Can you can do that? Can you remember? I couldn't do that. I might make a little list of things that I never did as a kid and actually start. There'd be a very. Be a much healthier midlife crisis, wouldn't it, than some of the traditional routes that people go down. Can you do really loud whistles when you put your fingers in your mouth? No, my mate Luke, you should hear my mate Luke. He did it at our wedding and the priest got crossed, thought it was disrespectful. He nearly made the window shatter, his whistle was so shrill. My granddad used to be able to make a perfect sound of a water droplet dropping by, flicking his cheek. I used to be able to do that, actually. Yes. I got a bit of practice, like everything else, but there we are. Anyway, where were we? Got a bit distracted. Round of applause for Robin, the physicist. The boomerang physicist. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. A nice little wander down memory lane as well. 1252 is the time. Jonathan's in Stanster. Jonathan, question or answer? Answer. Carry on and good afternoon. Hello. So I'm just going to elaborate a bit more on the growing pains question, if that's okay with you. Of course it is. Feel free. So growing pains is a bit of a misnomer. It's not actually to do with growth, it's more the fact that it affects children who happen to be growing. Now, we don't actually know the cause of growing pain. It's not nothing to do with tendons growing slower than bones? No, no, no. So what happens is growth. Oh, dear, oh dear. What happens is growth of the bone happens at the edges of the bone. So the. On the long bones, at the very edges, close to the joints, that's where you get your growth, your growth plates. Growing pains affects the whole length of the lower limb, so you get this pain and discomfort going all the way along. So that's how we can say that it's not to do with the joints, it affects all around the bone. There are a few theories as to what might cause it, but it may be potentially because the bone's not structured well enough, because it's young, juvenile bone, it's trying to grow for the first time and it's just not able to tolerate it. Or just the fact that kids don't have enough stamina. Sometimes they're exercising for the first time and they just get these aches and pains. It runs in families. It affects maybe a third to a half of all children. So it's. It is very common. But no one's. No one's quite sure why it happens. Well, the issue is, is it's more counted as what we call diagnosis of exclusion. Right. So we have what we look for, all the things that it could be, and if none of them apply, then it's growing pains. Then you get the catch all phase of growing pain. So first we need to examine the child and make sure that we can't find anything more serious. No, I like it and I think there's nothing more serious. Give it the diagnosis. You've given me a clue as to what your answer to my next question will be. Qualifications. Jonathan. Doctor. There we go. Round of applause. Doctor. Bang. No messing. Chloe's in Blackheath. Chloe, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. So, in terms of the person who was talking about, how can he calculate the steps that he's taking to also catch you? The other person's? That brought me back to my a level psychology over 15 years ago, and I remember learning about Atkinson and Schifrin's multi soul model of memory. And essentially you have the phonological loop that comprises of working memory soul that temporarily holds verbal information. So like numbers, like 12345. Yeah, but it's a verbal recognition of saying it out loud and phonological loop, remembering the verbal aspect. But on the flip side, you've got the visio spatial scratch pad, which holds the images that you keep. So that allows you to visualize something but also say it and remember them both at the same time. Now, if you were to add repetition to that, the map would transfer it into the long term memory as opposed to holding within short term memory. And I thought that could be a unique way for him to remember. I like this. So everyone thinks it's doable. A good way to test it, someone has suggested, would be to try to count the cars coming towards you. Yeah, I know. Cause that's not gonna have a regular rhythm to it, is it? And the wheelie bins that you're walking past. You just need two. I like that. The physio spatial scratch pad is the clincher here, I think. Yeah. Chronological loop, as opposed to relying on your mobile phone, because who needs more checkbox? You couldn't agree more. Qualifications? Psychology. I have. Well, no, I'm actually. I have an undergraduate. UK qualified law degree, a postgraduate legal practice and ten years banking and technology experience. Well, that's your qualification for doing this. I didn't need the rest of it, but, I mean, congratulations. Round of applause for Chloe. Thank you very much. I have a bag of gymnastics award for. Don't you know, Rubens in Liverpool. Ruben. Question or answer? James, I've got an answer for you. Carry on, then. It's about the earth. Yes. I think the original question was, why are the planets named after God? No, why is the Earth. Why is the earth named the Earth? Why is the earth named the Earth? Yeah. Well, technically, the earth is still named after a goddess because the Romans called the Earth Mother Earth, which was Terramata. And in Italian, the word Terra is still the word for earth. So where does Earth come from? Where does the word earth come from, then? Less my area of expertise, but I believe Earth is germanic. That's it. That's what I would have said, if in doubt. Germanic. Out. Yeah. Usually on etymology qualifications, I speak Italian fluently and have a interest in roman mythology. Round of applause for Reuben. Thank you. I'm hurrying you. Only because I was hoping to squeeze in a couple more, but. Oh, hang on. Zippy's in Lincolnshire. Don't bungle it. Hi, James. Hello, Zippy. Right. The word earth is old germanic, Saxon. From about 8th century in Germany's urder. And in English. It's early. There it is. And when they Lutherans made the Bible in German, not Latin and English, did it in the English Bible under Henry VIII. Yes. The germanic word was King James. Yeah, well, Henry VIII did the first bible in english. Did he? Yes. And it was read out. It was given to church to read that when he desert the desert after the dissolution of the monasteries. No, never mind. That's not. That's not. That's not pertinent to your answer. My bad. So there is Urdi. Urdi in the German. And the reason it's in the Bible is the earth. The actual formation of it is that. That german word from Old English, Saxon, Anglo Saxon, great stuff. It means the ground, literally. So it's the same. So it's the same as the small, like ground. It becomes the earth. The planet as well. The stuff that we're standing on, whether in a small or in a massive. Yeah. And if you go back to the greek times, the planet. Call it a planet. They just call it the ground. The ground. Qualifications quickly. Um. I used to break down mythology from old English and old Welsh. Fantastic. To prove historical facts. Love it. Can't say fairer than that. Round of applause for zippy. All right, cheers. No, thank you. Who definitely didn't bungle it? 1258 is the time I am going to give the. I was close, man. It was very close. In fact, it's a contender between the person who asked the question about farm animals having friends and the person who answered the question about farm animals having friends. But I'm going with Rebecca, who answered the question about farm animals having friends because, well, she was lovely. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you can also rewind live radio. You'll also. And actually, the blue red thing happened in 2000. Up until then, it was just for televisual purposes. And they went with red with republican, because they both start with r. But up until Reagan, Republicans were blue. You'll also find all of LBC's shows to catch up on, as well as all of Global's live radio stations. So do rewind. Live radio on global player download for free from your App Store. Head to globalplayer.com. Tom, Ben Kentish with you at four. Sheila Fogarty with you now. I got the joke. Don't bungle it. I got the joke. I know. I used to dash home from school at lunchtime to watch rainbow streets and houses. Rainbow and fine height. Everyone can see the smiling out of the sky. Yeah, we know. We know. Yeah. It's definitely time for you to go home. I should probably come with you by the south at this rate.