James O'Brien's Mystery Hour

Three minutes after twelve is the time. And look, a quick glance in the rearview mirror for the 2 hours we just spent discussing that high court ruling on the triggering of article 50 in mischief. We do this thing where you have to go definitive, right? So some of the questions on the board, we'll get onto this in a minute. Why do cats have the knowledge? To cover up their own waste. That's going to be coming up later in the hour. Now, imagine that there was a definitive answer to that, right? There is a definitive evolutionary explanation for why cats have the knowledge, or whatever you want to call it, to bury their own doings. And someone rang in with that answer. The Brexit debate would. Would not work because someone would ring in with the right answer. And then I'd have to give a round of applause to someone else who rang in and said, oh, it's because they've got spells on them, James, that that's where we are now. I just suddenly occurred to me that mystery is the only place now on the radio where you go definitive. You are either right or you are wrong. And when I ask you to prove that you're right, you provide the evidence that allows us to decide whether you've gone definitive or not. This world of impartiality and balance means you ring in with a right arm answer. And if mystery hour was to be conducted in the way that Brexit debates are conducted, I'd have to then invite somebody else to come on and provide a completely wrong answer and treat both answers absolutely equally. I'm glad we cleared that up. It's five minutes after twelve. Time for some fun. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that is not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. The phones tend to ring off the hook, but the first couple of minutes are spent there. I say, sorting wheat from chaff. Normally, I say this would be the busiest hour of the week, but given the reaction to that last phone, and it's not even the busiest hour of the day, necessarily. It is, however, a complete change of pace. You have a question in your mind right now, somewhere bubbling away in the back of your brain, which really needs an answer. A who, perhaps? A why? Why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's the origin of that? What's the reason for that? If this happened, what would happen then? Anything at all? Seriously. From the sublime to the ridiculous, from the serious to the downright silly. The point is, it's a mystery. Now, it's possible you could find out the answer by going down all the usual routes. But don't, because somebody else listening to the program will know the answer to your question. Okay? Somebody listening to the answer will not. Listening to the program will know the answer and they'll ring in with it. Nobody's allowed to use Google, nobody's allowed to join in. Nobody's allowed to in any way look up stuff. If you know the answer when the question is asked, ring in with it. And if it is found to have gone definitive, you will win a much prized mystery hour. Round of applause. Hopefully someone will get a Ray Liotta today as well. We haven't had a Ray Liotta moment all week, have we? We had one since I got back from holiday because we've been doing such grown up stuff. Wouldn't have felt appropriate to play out the Ray Liotta moment during some of the very powerful and poignant calls we've taken in the course of this week. So hopefully we'll get a if you build it, they will come moment today. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need if you've got a question, or indeed, if you have got an answer. Tim is in Croydon. Tim, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. I've got a question today. Go on. And it's a little bit left field, but this is the place for them. Go on. What is the smallest population the earth needs to sustain a modern level of civilization? You can't get. I mean, we're good, mate, but we're not that good. No, I reckon I'm not the first person to ask that question. You could have two people on the planet and they'd be able to live off the land and procreate. So what do you mean by civilization? Modern 21st century existence, international travel, maybe a space program, education, welfare society, all that kind of thing. Do you know, last week I took a kicking? I'm not going to lie to you, Tim. I got all sniffy and condescending about some of the questions and ended up eating more slices of humble pie than any human being should have to do in the course of their entire life, let alone a single hour. So although I'm reaching, I'm reaching for the condescending button, I'm not going to press it because I made such a prat of myself last week. Bless you. No, bless you. What is the smallest population the world could have while sustaining a. Well, you say civilization. A quality of life comparable to how it is now. Exactly so. But if you lived. If you lived in a. If you lived in a cave in the hindu kush. Would you describe that as a quality of life comparable to what you have? And that is now? Well, I'm saying that if there's a. If there are massive decline in population, there comes a point at which you would break down into sort of, you know, a primitive sort of subsistence level of life. But what is the population you would need to sustain those modern things reaching for the, like, international travel or space program or whatever else. I'm reaching for the button. No, I'm not. I'm not reaching for the button. All right. Which button are you reaching for? That is a condescending one. No, I'm not. I'm not. I've pulled my thumb back. Sustain this. What's the smallest population that could sustain life? Pretty much as we know it, yes. You're on all that kind of stuff. Why do you want to know? What are you planning to do? I'm not saying anything. Nine minutes after twelve. Keep an eye on that one. So he lives in Enfield, so he'll question or answer. Hi, James. I've got a question. Yes, I'm just wondering. Well, you very kindly shared my question on the introduction. So I'm wondering how it that cats, which seemingly are just like any other animal, how is it that they have the conscience or knowledge or decency to, when they've done their business, not in the house, on the road or on the street or whatever, to cover up their business and scoop it up and get some gravel or stones or soil or whatever, and cover it up. Why are they doing that? Oh, soil, you said, didn't you? Not foil. Yes. So cats, and I guess the obvious contradiction or parallel would be with dogs. Why do cats do it and dogs don't? What's happened to cats to make them work it out? Yeah. Well, pretty much any animal, if you walk around the streets or in the countryside, as we were recently, and it's, you know, stuff is everywhere. Why the cat? Why do cats bury their doings? Yeah, exactly. That's a very good question. Did you. What do you think of the last one? What's the smallest population that the world could sustain life as we know it with? Do you think that's a bit rubbish or do you think that's possibly brilliant? But I didn't realize at the time. No, I don't think you can give a definitive answer to that. I don't think you can either. That's what worried me. But you. Yeah. Yes, do. Great. You put it a lot more politely than I managed, but then again, politeness has never been my thing, so he'll have a wonderful day. Mind how you go. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. Why do cats bury their doings? And what's the smallest population that could, planetarily speaking, sustain life more or less as we know it? Steve is in Hornsey. Steve, question or answer? Question, please. Go on. Why do we not get goosebumps on our face? Yeah, right, you're on. Are you sure you don't. You don't, do you? It's about the follicles in it. It's all about the follicles. Goosebumps are hair follicles, aren't they? Isn't it the hair follicle that pricks up because it's trying to change where your hair is on your skin in order to keep you warm and insulate you from the cold? Men have hair on their face. Different sort of hair. It's still a hair follicle, though, isn't it? All right, clever clogs. You don't get goosebumps on the. You only get goosebumps where you've got body hair growing, not facial or head hair. That's not going to count as an answer, is it? You're not going to take that? I wouldn't, no. I'd be all over that for a refund. All right, then, you're on. Why don't we get goosebumps on our face? Or I suppose the answer might involve explaining why we do get goosebumps everywhere else. Zero. 345-606-0973 Darren, nice antidote to the boy who I think have gone into some form of overdrive today. Hey, everyone. Mystery hours on LBC is the best hour of radio in the whole world. Tune into 97.3 FM now, if you're in London, of course you can listen online, on digital and in various other ways. Now, eleven minutes after twelve. If you're listening on the podcast, I've forgotten again to do the Twitter question that we will ask live on the program for the benefit of people who only listen on the podcast. But the only reason I've forgotten is because you didn't remind me. If you're listening to the podcast now, then, and you have a question that you'd love to get answered, but you can never listen to the program live because you're busy, I don't know, flying jump or something, then tweet me the question with a hashtag. Hash twittermysteryour. And the more of you do that, the better chance there is of me actually remembering before next Thursday to include it in the program. Harvey is in Romford. Harvey, how you doing? Hello, James. And as you go, some of my name. I don't. I knew you were going to say that. And I'm going to confess something to you, Harve. I'm not going to tell anyone else this, so keep it under your hat. I've been a little. I've been a little bit remiss in my godfatherly duties this year. Naughty. And you, you're like. You're like Banquo's ghost, Harvey, turning up with the same name to remind me of just what a heel and cad I've turned out to be. Quick, change the subject. Question or answer? Question, please. Hurry on. Right. I've been studying military history for years and I'd like to know why in the last 500 years they make the business end of bullets out of lead. Why lead? Why not any other metal? Is it not because of the softness? I don't know. I just don't know. The. Some bullets are armored. You have armor piercing bullets, but why the metal? Lead? Is it always lead, even in fancy pants? Modern bullets, yes. Always lead. You have full jacketed bullets, but it's always lead. Why lead? Why not iron or copper or something like that? Exactly. Exactly. Because to me, lead is rarer metal. Rarer metal than iron. Easier to mold, though, probably. It's going to be quite a simple answer, I imagine, about the easy to mold it, or you can do it at lower temperatures or something like that, but I don't know. So it's a lovely, lovely, lovely question. Thank you. And by the way, Jane, wasn't it a great ruling against Uber? It was. But, you know, it's not count any chickens. Yeah, true, true, true. My driver this morning actually was also going down that route. And I guess given that you can see half of America is. Half of America is potentially poised to vote for Donald Trump. I'm not taking anything for granted anymore. 1214 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Dom's annealing. Dom. Question or answer? Oh, it's a question, James. Yes, it might be an unanswerable one. It struck me. Do we actually ever forget anything? As in, like, a hard disk of our mind? Yeah. Casino. When sometimes you've forgotten something, but it comes back to you afterwards or you might have it in a dream, something might pop up in a dream that feels like. Do we. So, trying to kind of fathom answers for questions on mystery hour. And they come back afterwards. It's a great. Yeah. I never get it until that hour. Thursday, twelve till one, they all disappear from your mind and then come. Come lunchtime, they're back in again. So where is it? Is it is in there somewhere? Is everything we've ever learned in there somewhere, ready to come out? It just. It needs a prompt to some sort. We've done something in the past on. There is a difference between short term and long term memory, and I think it's almost chemical. It's to do with the part of the brain that it's in, and I suspect short term memories, if they don't get filed into the long term bit of the brain. Is this a bit too academic for you, Dom? Are you all right with this? This scientific language about the bits getting filed into the other bit of the brain? Are you keeping up with this? It's not exactly rocket science. I get if it's in the short term memory and it doesn't get refiled into the long term memory, it might get lost forever. But if you take my word for this, then, frankly, you don't deserve to be on mystery out. I probably don't anyway. You certainly do. It's 1215. Do we remember everything? Just perhaps not have ease of access to. I love that question. Do we have any psychiatrists or brain surgeons listening? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. It's 12:15 lBC. It is 20 minutes after twelve. Mystery hour is underway. We've got a question that I don't think we'll get an answer. What is the smallest population of the world, of the planet, that could sustain something similar to life as we know it? Why do cats bury their doings, perhaps not quite uniquely in the animal kingdom, but certainly unlike most other animals. Why are bullets made of lead as opposed to anything else? And there is definitely an answer to that, because Lane's been in touch to tell me. He knows it, but he can't ring in and he'll be absolutely furious if someone rings in with the wrong answer and gets a round of applause. And do we ever forget anything? Is it all there is? Everything we've ever known somewhere inside, like a hard disk that's been written over again and again and again and again. But a computer genius could get somehow back to the stuff that we thought lost forever? Matt is in Colchester. Question or answer, Matt? I think I have an answer for the cat one. Oh, no. I'm going to have to check with Lane, aren't I, on whether or not you've got it right. Go on. That's the bullets. The cat one, not the bullets. It's all right. You produce the program, I'll shut up. Oh, sorry, I meant that as a compliment. I made a mistake. You pointed it out. What have you got on the cats? It's a predator avoidant thing. Avoidance thing, surely. So if they bury their leavings, it means that anything that is potentially tracked them, like a larger predator, can't find where they are. And there is the answer. Why don't dogs do it? Yeah, but if you think about it, dogs also do so like, you know, they do the whole kick leave thing. They're not as sophisticated as cats. They do still do that. Oh, that's controversial. Don't ring in on that one. Dogs aren't as sophisticated as cats. We'll save that for a slow news day. Although I don't think there's going to be many of them for a while. Qualifications, Matt? I'm currently doing a PhD in bioscience. That's not necessarily relevant to answering this question, is it? It's just an indication of how well educated and clever you are. Oh. So hang on. So what are your qualifications for knowing the answer to this question? Oh, oh, so it's. I've got a degree in marine biology. I don't know if that counts. It helps, but it doesn't really contain much about cats, does it, your marine biology degree? Swimming cats, I suppose, yeah. Well, catfish. But, you know, you do. But, you know, you do learn broad, you know, predatory prey stuff. So. So the question actually was never going to be, why don't other animals do it? Because it's an evolutionary development that has protected cats. The first cats that decided to bury their doings bred more than the cats that didn't. And then therefore their genes have been passed down and it's a sort of genetic inheritance which protects them from predators, animals that don't bury their doings, whether you're talking about a dog, which tries to, or rats and mice that never do, it's simply because it hasn't provided any evolutionary advantage to them. Exactly. Position in the food chain would be relevant as well, would it? If you were top of the food chain, you wouldn't need to hide. So a bear probably doesn't bother, you know, when a bear does what it does in the woods, probably just leaves it there. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Round of applause for Matthew. Beautifully played, sir. Good luck with the PhD. 23 minutes after twelve, Theresa is in Romford. Question or answer? Teresa. Hello, James. Hello, Teresa. On behalf of one of my little grandchildren, it's taken me a couple of years to get through to you. I'll just tell you quickly. One day I was there with my grandchildren. She said, nellie, you know you can't walk very far before you have six down. So she said, I know, how far can a bird fly before it has to sit down? And I said to her, perhaps it depends on the size of the bird. I don't know. And I did say I would phone you. And James, she keeps asking me, have I got the answer? Well, we're not going to be. I mean, it's going to depend on the bird. There's not going to be an answer that applies to all birds. Like 40 km, is there? Probably. Depends on its size, its weight. But you know, I've got a lot of trees here and she was watching them around. Yeah. James, I thought you might. I think there might be a bird, unless I've gone mad, there might be a bird that pretty much never lands. No, I must have gone mad. I've imagined, how would it eat? Shut up, James. You're talking nonsense. I think I'm thinking of some. I wonder if anybody knows. But I would love to have the answer. I'm gonna get you some sort of answer because I'm not having your granddaughter picking on you again for not. Not doing what she wants. Theresa. No, but I don't know that there's going to be a definitive answer that would apply. Well, there can't because there's no earthly way that an albatross and a pigeon can fly the same distance, is there? That's why. I'm sorry, excuse me, how I tried to explain it to her. Think it would depend on the bird's size. Because when you think some birds fly over oceans, might be a little bit lazy like a sparrow from tree to tree, but. Oh, James, it was just a question from a child. Love it. I love it. I love it. I mean, what, maybe we could tell her the furthest. Would that work? If you could say the bird that can fly the furthest is the x and it can fly x kilometers or miles. Yeah, James, whatever. I just want to have some sort of answer. Well, we're going to get you some sort of answer, Teresa, if it kills me. Seriously. Thank you, James. They're very welcome. You're a lovely lady. Thank you. And I hope we get through and it doesn't take as long as two years. Next time I might introduce gold cards, vip cards for callers like Teresa. Just sound so lovely. I hate the idea of her trying to get through for two years. Granddaughter's going to be married before she gets an answer to her next question. 25 minutes after twelve is the time Joe is in the west end. Question or answer, Joe? Answer please, mate. Carry on, Joe. Lead bullets. Lead has a very low melting temperature, so soldiers used to carry their own musket moulds for their bullet. Could burn them in the fire. If it was iron, it would be too heavy and require more powder. Yeah. Also, iron requires a blast furnace, but bullets are now coated. I mean, sure, metal jacket, but it's still lead that's coated because of the malleability, the low point and the weight. And the relative weight. Yeah, well, it's the stopping power. I mean, if you look at the higher the tin content, if you like. Yeah, the more malleable the lead, the more it's going to open up and do more damage. But then you got the black Talon bullet, which has got steel outside that opens up like an eagle's claw, which is banned in America now. Crikey, I didn't think they banned anything like that. The Donald Trump will unban it. Don't worry, it'll be unbanned by the weekend, mate. As soon as Donald Trump gets in stuff like that, you'll be able to buy an Asda or Walmart. Is the thing that Harvey's question, why are bullets made of lead? I think you've nailed it. I think you've given him lots and lots of answers, including why we don't use other metals like iron ore. You wouldn't be able to make it. You can melt your own lead with a bunsen burner and a little crucible at school, couldn't you? In a fire? Yeah. In a fire, yeah. Qualifications? I think I know I can work it out at least. But tell me anyway. I used. Yeah, I used to show. Yeah, I used to shoot. Is that it? Didn't you? I thought you might have a bit of military history in there. Like old Harvey who asked the question. No, no, no, afraid not. Sorry, James. No, I'm just got. No, you've got a round of applause. I'm just. No, mate. I'm trying to work out whether this is true. I don't know if you were listening to the first 2 hours of the program, wondering what the reaction would be to this judgment. I just don't know if this is actually truly from the Daily Mail, the judges who blocked Brexit. One founded a european law group in capital letters. Another charge the taxpayer millions for advice. And the third is an openly gay ex Olympic fencer. Hand on heart, mate. Hand on heart. Parody or journalism? What would your guts tell you in the current climate? I've lost faith in journalism, mate. Apart from your show, to be honest with you. Right, give him two rounds of applause. Cheers, Joan. Cheers, Joe. Great answer. The one about the bullets. The other one was nice, too, I suppose. Seriously, this is. So this is Britain. This is Britain right now. I don't know. Someone's tweeted me this. Okay. The judges who blocked Brexit, one, this daily Mail, allegedly one, founded a european law group in capital letters. We are still european. Even if we leave the European Union, we'll still be european. But european is now a dirty word. Another charged the taxpayer millions for advice. So another invoiced for work that they'd done right instead of working for free, like the editor of the Daily Mail does. Turns out every day, never asked to get paid for the work that he does. And the third is an openly gay. Because they're the worst kind. They're the worst kind, the openly gay ones. I'll tell you who really hates the openly gay community, the secretly gay community who haven't got the guts to stand up and admit. Admit. Isn't it quite the right word? Is it? Acknowledge who they are, what they are. And finally, ex Olympic fencer. Parody or proper story? What would you. Seriously, what would your guts tell you on that? I'm not asking it. It's a rhetorical question. I'm going with proper story. I started on parody. But you can't. I mean, it's too easy to believe. Three of the country's most senior judges ruled that the prime minister does not have the power to start the two year process of negotiating Brexit. No, they ruled that the prime minister does not have the power to ride roughshod over british law, which you're supposed to be in favour of, but not, apparently, if it's being upheld by openly gay people and lawyers who charge money for work. You think sometimes I'm exaggerating when I tell you how worried I am by the way things are going and the way we're being led by certain members of the media. Okay, so now we don't trust high court judges because they are european, as in we all are and openly gay. Wow. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. My apologies for allowing a cloud of sadness to impinge upon the ordinarily sunny uplands of mystery hour. Normal service will be resumed immediately after Simon Conway brings you the latest headlines. The government says it will appeal a high court ruling. That article for BC, it is 33 minutes just after twelve. You are listening to James O'Brien on lB three. Mister. Dragging ourselves away from the political scenario for an hour of much needed light relief. Don't worry, though, my colleagues will be piling straight back into the day's news shortly after 1259 today. Question still in need of answers on mystery. We've done the lead. Do we ever forget anything? That's something to do with short term and long term memory, but I can't remember what. And what's the smallest population that could sustain life as we know it on this planet? If we get an answer to that, I'll tell you now, I'll give you the money myself. And how long does a bird fly for? We need an answer for Teresa, Teresa's granddaughter. But it's really for Teresa because I think she's getting a bit embarrassed by not being able to tell her granddaughter an answer to a question she's been asking for two years. How long does a bird fly for? It sounds like the first line of a joke that, doesn't it? Which works on the misunderstanding about whether you're referring to a bird of the feathered variety or the 1970s description of young women. But no, it's not. It's just true. How far can a bird fly? Alan is in Knightsbridge. Alan, question or answer? Answer, James, hopefully. Bring it on, Alan. Well, I'm led to believe and I do know. Well, I do know it. I've seen it. The swift will fly once it leaves the nest. The fledgling will fly for the first two to three years of its life. It will stay up there, it will sleep, eat and do everything. And the only time it will land is it'll get the urge to mate. After three years, it will want to mate. So it will land then. So the first three years it's in. For the first two to three years it's in the air. Yeah. And is that. I mean, that's good enough for Teresa. I think it sounds a bit unfeasible, but it will be. It will migrate and do everything and it eats on the way. It sleeps on the wing then, does it? Yeah. It will sleep and eat on the wing? Yeah. Wow. And mate. And it will mate on the wing as well. I know it sounds a bit hard, but you, if you can see that. Speak for yourself, Alan. I don't reckon it'll be that difficult. Well, us cab drivers, we've probably try it. You never know. A little bit of imagination, mate. Come on. This is. This isn't what made Britain great today. Thinking you wouldn't be able to mate on the wing with their population to die out by Christmas. Yeah, not at the wheel, though, James. Not at the wheel, just on the wing. Qualifications? Well, birdwatcher since about 1112. Avidly one of Bill Oddy's camp, I suppose. I like that. I think I'm probably going to get some other answers, but in terms of what Teresa needs for her granddaughter, that's surprised if you pay it. No, we're just. We're adding to it. We're adding to it. We're giving her a sack of answers to take to her granddaughter, rather than just a single one. But you certainly earn this. Hang on, don't go yet. I need to tell you a secret. I'm getting quite into birdwatching, but I'm not very good at identifying. Is there a moment where if you've done enough of it, you start clicking? I spotted a tufted duck earlier this week in Chiswick house. I've got a tufted duck because it's got the yellow eyes and the weird black and white patterning. But is it like everything else is? The more you do it, the better you get. So that in six months time, I might just be able to go, oh, there's a. There's a. There's a grebe. Yeah, James, you'll be able to spot them all. Get the apple or something like that on your phone these days. 50 London birds that you'll probably see. And then. Then you get better at it. Although I'm doing it more by the seaside. But of course, it all stands. Thank you, Alan. It's a wonderful. I did it with a chat called David Lindo, the urban birder. Took us to Wormwood scrubs a few years ago. I took a microphone with me, we played it out on the program. Saw a kestrel actually, in the middle of Wormwood scrubs, in the actual scrub land, not the prison, obviously. Kestrels can't get in for all the drones delivering drugs. Kestrel on the wing. And it stopped on a swoop, down, pulled. It was a kestrel, wasn't it? Would it be a kestrel? I think it was a kestrel. And that's where it got the bug. And now it's just very slowly growing. Another Allen. This one's in Warrington. Question or answer, Alan? It's an answer. Carry on, Alan. It's about the bird, I think the bird with the longest endurance on the wing is a wandering albatross. How long does that go for? Oh, about two, three months. And it ranges over the Pacific. Interesting birds. They can live to be 60, 70 years old and they complete can be completely monogamous as well. Really? Yeah. So what about the last fellow saying that some swifts might go for two to three years without roosting, landing? I'm not going to go. I won't. Sort of. I really don't know, to be honest with you. Well, I'll tell you one thing, swifts don't live to be 60 years old. No, no, it's not. I'm not putting you in competition with each other. I just thought. I didn't know whether you were saying that the albatross is the longest. So the bloke with the swift must have been wrong. You're just giving his extra information? Yeah. Really? Yeah. I like it. I like. Well, let's. There we go. So this is for Teresa. Teresa, get your notebook out. Okay. The two allens have conspired to tell you that there are swifts might go for two to three years without landing. So, I mean, you work out how far they fly. Albatrosses go for two to three months. They also are monogamous and can live to 60 or 70 years. Do we know how much distance they can cover in that period? Or you just have to work it out for yourself. Over two or three month period, they can cover 10,000 miles. Interestingly enough, they always return to the same place as a partner. Do they really? What sort of albatross was it called? The wandering albatross. The wandering albatross. What, um. Are your qualifications, Alan? Oh, nothing really. I'm just. Secondary modern school. Why? No, but how do you know this? Richard Attenborough. Thank you very much. David Attenborough. Thank you very much. Sorry. He'll be next to get the Daily Mail treatment because he came out yesterday saying the referendum is far too complicated to have been decided on a simple, single, binary question. So stand by for national treasures like David Attenborough to be turned over by the Daily Mail, just like british high court judges are now, as a result of them enacting the law. The law. But this is what's going to happen now with them. Did we give them a round of applause? Give them a round of applause, quick. So shut up about politics. Just crack on with mystery. Out. All right, all right, all right. Phil's in south Devon. Phil, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Philip. Phil. It's the memory thing. You have a bit of an answer when you said short term and long term memory, but that's only a bit of an answer. That's one model of how memory works. Yes. Memory has many components, so you might have episodic memory, you have categorical memory, you have memory that you remember how to do things. So, you know, they say you never forget to ride a bike. That's a different type of memory. Again, procedural memory. So in terms of, do we ever forget things, then neurons and the connections do break down as you get older. I mean, my memory is diabolical. You know, I can tell somebody the same thing 100 times, but then I can remember the most bizarre things, you know, from 40 years ago. Yes, exactly. And I think, you know, if you are the star of your own story, you're much more likely to remember it. I've also heard it said, and I can't remember which psychologist said it, that if you, the more often you recall things and then store it again, the more likely you are to remember it. With things like some of the dementia, diseases, where they can remember things are 50, 60, 70 years old, but not what happened yesterday. Again, it's because they've recalled it so often. Yes. That it's there. It's spread around a lot of the brain, rather than something that happened yesterday, that, you know, that sadly, those particular parts of the brain may have, you know, died off quite quickly. Love it. That's a lovely answer. So, I mean, in simplistic terms, the question is, do we remember everything? The answer is no, we don't. We do forget stuff. We do, yeah. What are your qualifications, Phil? Well, I've just got a degree from the OU in psychology. Oh, what do you mean, just got a degree from the OU in psychology? I was about 46 when I got it. That doesn't matter. Do you know what my late father did so that I wouldn't be the first person in the family to get a university degree? My late father, when I was about twelve, he signed up to the open university and did a degree in history, so that he graduated before I did. I think the OU is an absolutely extraordinary organization. It's a magnificent organization. Absolutely magnificent. It served you well, I should have added, because you didn't realize, nor did the last caller. When I say qualifications, I don't mean what are your actual qualifications? I mean, how do you know the bit of information that you've just brought to the, when you said about the hard disk, that is one of the. Some neuroscientists do have these sort of computer model of the brain, but obviously the brain doesn't literally work like that. It's just the model that's used for convenience sake. Round of applause for Phil. Thank you. No, thank you. Thank you. Anne's in Richmond. Anne, question or answer? James question, please carry on. Anne, why is it that marmalade doesn't go moldy when you leave it in the cupboard? But most jams do. Acid. Is it acid? I don't know. Sorry? I said that in my convincing voice. I should have said it in my doubtful voice. Acid. Acid. No idea. Unless it's more sugar or. I just don't know. Must be something that's in oranges, that isn't in strawberries. And citric acid would be a possibility on that, I was thinking, but I was wondering if other people might know that. Well, now's the time for jams. I don't know if you've been keeping up with politics lately, but if your economic situation is about to go off a cliff, Andrea Ledsome says you should get into jams innovative. Jams is the future of the british economy. I don't know if she said anything about marmalade, actually. Why does jam go moldy and marmalade doesn't and wants to know? And now, frankly, in the best spirit of mystery, so do I, if you know the answer. Zero 345-606-0973 I've got some phone lines free. Sorry. It's because I keep doing these political asides. I've stopped doing that now. If you've got a question, you'll get through if you. Quick. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Drew is in Beckenham. Drew, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Drew, I think you're going to get this one. I think you're going to show your intelligence here. What is the difference? First time for everything. What is the difference between magma and lava? It's been bugging me for weeks. Isn't magma just solid lava? It's lava after it's set. See, I thought it was still liquid for Magma. I don't think so. I've got blank faces looking at me in the studio. I'm just deciding. Is there anyone else there? There's some fellows standing in the. In the corridor. Do you know anything about magma and lava? Chaps, do you know anything about magma and lava? No. What's the difference in magma and lava? Is magma liquid or solid? No, I don't know who they are. They're not important. Been going around on a big tour of the. Big tour of the building this could be a very embarrassing development. Seriously, I think magma is solid. Okay. You don't sound too sure. Well, I can't go. I can't go definitive in that case, can I? No. All right, you're on, then. Oh, it's on the list. I think I did just help you, but I'm not confident enough to stick by. I've got the courage of my own convictions. You're on, Drew. Difference between magma and lava. If it turns out that I'm right, I'll share the round of applause. 1244 is the time you are listening to. Should we go to the travel now and then come back? Yeah, of course we will. It's just coming up to 1245. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. J Louise Knight is here with your travel news. Thank you, James. Good afternoon. And huge delays in east London this. That's a good job. I didn't go all in on that magma lava question. I think I got it horribly wrong. But hopefully somebody will be able to go definitive. Stuart's in Orpington. Stuart, question or answer? There's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Stuart. I've seen people spit on their hands when they shake on an agreement and I'm wondering why that is. Because it looks absolutely horrendous. Yeah. My youngest started going through a phase of wanting to do that. We do sort of, you know, cool handshakes with each other where it should sort of end with you going like, boom and dragging your hand back. And then she came up to me the day during half term and just said, dad, shake. And I went, here you go, darling. She goes, no, dad, shake. Spits on quite sweet when it's your kid. But if I bump into you anytime soon, Stuart, don't go down the same route, will you? Definitely not find out. Why do we spit on our hands when we're shaking hands? It's pretty gross by all, by all accounts. I don't know if it's an old thing, you certainly hear it. 1250 is the time, Stuart. Thank you. Shaking on hands or spitting on hands, what else we got? That population question is not getting an answer, is it? Is there anything else on the board that we haven't? The what? Oh, the goosebumps. Why don't we get goosebumps on our face? Come on. And the jam versus marmalade. Jam versus marmalade. Be a channel five show soon. Dave's in Burnley. Dave, question or answer? It's a Stewart with regards to the marmalade. Oh, no. Early days go on. Yeah, well, I've got a job. Marmalade, in my cupboard with mold on top. How old is it? Well over a year. Do we reframe the question, then, to say, why does mold appear on jam much more quickly? Because lovely Anne in Richmond probably eats her marmalade more quickly than you do. Yeah, I agree. So he does actually get mold on. So we need to slightly reframe the question. Why does Jam get moldier than marmalade? Yeah, I think that's fair. Do you? I mean, have you got any moldy jam in your cupboard, or just moldy marmalade? I'm not sure. I haven't checked the jam for quite a while. So, what do you do for breakfast? Why have you got all this stuff in your cupboard that you never touched? It's mainly for cooking rather than actual spreading hot toast. Oh, fair enough. You do a glaze with it, would you, or something like that? Yeah. Yeah. So that's why it's in the cupboard. So I like it. Moldy Marmalade versus moldy jam. Very helpful clarification that, Dave. I'm glad that you've taken the trouble to provide us with it. In fact, you're such a decent fellow, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Oh, great. Successful Stewart inquiry. We can add that to the list of things that merit a clap. Stuart's in Mulefield or. Where are you, Stuart? No, it's spelled correctly. I've just never heard of it before. Question or answer? It's an answer, please. To the lava. Magma. Where is Merfield? First, it's just next door to Huddersfield. Okay, northern callers today, you're all very, very welcome. What is your answer to the magma? Lava? Simply, they're both the same, but when it's below the earth's crust, it's classed as magma. And then once it breaks through or erupts, it's clustered as lava. So when it's under the surface, it's magma. When it's over the surface, it's lava. Yeah. Simple location. Beautiful answer. Qualifications, please, Stuart. I'm a scientist and it's just picked up in some science lesson way back when. That'll do. If. If you'd said, how long have you been listening up in. Up in Merfield to mystery out? About 20 minutes. This is the first time you've heard it? Oh, no. A couple of weeks. I've been listening. You're very. You're very welcome. If you had lied to me then when I said, what are your qualifications? You said, well, I'm a volcanologist, James. You'd have got a Ray Liotta moment. You'd have got. Your honesty has denied you. At least your conscience is clear. But your trophy cabinet has not, I'm afraid, secured a Ray Liotta moment. So many new listeners at the moment, I wonder if I need to explain what Rayliotta moment is. There's some phone lines free. Okay. 0345-6060 973 is the number you need. Terry is, well, also north of Watford, up in Matlock in Derbyshire. Terry, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Terry. I've collected coins for some years, but I've recently started collecting banknotes from around the world. Have you? Unlike british coins, british banknotes have not got a date on them. I just wondered why. Banknotes. British banknotes. Don't have a. Have a date on them. Are you sure? Yeah, positive. Hang on. Do you mind if I check? Oh, sure. All right. I've only got. I've got a 20 on me. No, you're right. Is it because they don't stay in circulation very long like coins do? Because they're made of paper, obviously they'll get withdrawn. They can stay in circulation for quite some time, especially, like, people who collect them and keep hold of them. There is one way of telling roughly when they are. Is the chief cashier the name? That chief cashier designs banknotes. Oh. So you know that you can get a window of what time it was, but that can be ten years, in some cases, 1015 years. Like it. Okay, yeah. How big is your collection, your banknote collection? Well, I've only started recently within. Since the new. Since the new polymer. I was collecting coins and then suddenly, you know, looking into banknotes. I mean, I've got some from, like, Zimbabwe at the moment. Like a 2 million. A $2 million note. Oh, billions. Billions. Really? Oh, fantastic. Yeah. Yeah. And things like that. It's quite interesting. My kids would like that, actually. I've got one from the Confederate States of America. Really? How much did that cost? There was only about 45 pound. It's not bad, is it? I like. That's a nice collection to have. Ornithology. And what's it called again? Collect. Is it new? Mean? New me? What's the word? No, that's the Muppets theme tune. Terry, we've not. That's a lovely question. Let's. Let's stop guessing and get him an answer. Why don't we have dates on banknotes? Zero. 345-606-0973 is it what is this. This is like a tribute to the north. Our friends in the north today is sign that LBC truly is becoming a national force. Adam is in Hull, Kingston. Up on hull. Adam, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Why do wind turbines have to be, like, shut down and stopped when it's too windy? Why can't they just add more restrictors, create more energy or just turn the blades? They're more modern turbines. You can. I mean, the technology is changing all the time and it's still relatively new, but. But the answer is fairly straightforward. If they've built it in a way that the blades don't turn, which is what happens on the turbines that you've just described. If it's too windy, it will just like a car that's going too fast, it'll just start to fall apart. Right. Yeah, I thought the blades might snap. That might be the. Yeah, that kind of thing will happen, because it's only. It's only going to have, you know, tension up to a certain point. It's not going to be able to cope with infinite speed any more than I try to think of a better example of, you know, like a washing machine. If a washing machine goes a bit do lally or a tumble dryer, it starts dancing around the room, it's going to go kaput eventually. Yeah, yeah. Why don't they add more restrictors on it? And they are. They are. The turbine technology is increasing all the time. You don't hear much about it in this country because we're all enthralled to a bunch of backward middle aged men who want to drag us back to 1974. But if you're ever in the burning coal, all of that burning coal. Yes. I think I saw a Ukip MEP suggesting yesterday that we should start burning coal again because global warming is all a massive hoax. Are you ever in Norfolk, Adam? It's a long way from Hull, but I'm going to ask you. It's not that far. I'm from Bournemouth country, working. If you ever find yourself. If you ever find yourself near Swaffham in Norfolk, there is a wind turbine there that you can go up, you can walk up it and it's got a little viewing platform near the top. I think it's the only one in the United Kingdom. And the young people that were there, I've forgotten the fellow's name, to my embarrassment. There's a young chap that works there, an absolute genius. And if you're ever in that area, go on that little tour, go up the turbine and pick his brains because he is an absolute charmer. It's one of the best days out I've had in years. Thank you very much. Yeah, you're very welcome. So now we've done ornithology. Numi numi ni ni nu minoo. Coin collecting and tourist advice. I wonder how the week is going to end. 1257 is the time Liam is in Bristol. Liam, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Oh, yes. Fill your boots. Which question, Liam? It's the question to whether do we get date on notes? Go on, why don't we? Right, have you got 20 on you? Yeah, I have, yeah. Right. If you look on the back, like on the back of the 20 quid note. Got it away from the queen, you've got. That's the front. I always thought the queen was on the front. Well, if you look on the back of the 20 quid note, you've got a guy called Adam Smith, 1723 to 1790. Indeed you do. And if you look where there's a small copyright symbol next to it, it says the governor and the company of the bank of England. 2006. Yes, that's the date of the note. That's the date that the copyright of this design was registered. It could have been made at any point subsequent to 2006. Ah, see now that's okay. I thought I had it there. I did as well for a minute. I did as well for a minute, mate. I just don't. I don't think you'll ever find. The thing is, like, I don't want to show off, all right, but I've got about 100 quid's worth of twenties on me at the moment and. Well, now you are really showing up. Yeah, I know. So I'm taking it all out of the bank because of Brexit. I'm going to stick it all in gold or marmite. Not a fair shell, to be fair, but. No, I just. It's just the guy who called in, said, oh, there's no. Never a date. No, I've checked them all, they're all 2006. So either every 20 pound note in circulation or every 20 pound note in my pocket is from 2006 or the copyright thing is a bit of a red herring. Give a round of applause anyway, though, for being a top sport. Cheers, Liam. Don't mind how you go. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. Thank you for listening to LBC. Here is Sheila Fogarty. Thanks, James. Later on this afternoon from three, the Catholic Church has apologized for its role in forced adoptions over a 30 year period. Other churches, organizations, and let's not forget, families, did the same because of the harsher views of the time. Just how difficult is it to give your child away? After two is the answer to what the justice secretary calls a failing prison system. More prison staff. That's from 02:00 and after the news. This is Teresa May. Earlier this year, Brexit means.