Why do books start a page with capital letters? - 27 Aug 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC Four minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is upon us. Me news hasn't been very happy lately, and so Thursdays at twelve to assume an even greater importance than usual when there are terrible things happening in the world, which is, it seems, most of the time, five minutes after twelve. Now, the way this works is pretty straightforward. If you haven't listened before, allow me to take a moment of your time to bring you fully up to speed with everything you need to enjoy. Is it the most popular podcast that LBC put out? I think it is. I mean, it certainly sort of regularly appears in the iTunes top ten comedy podcasts, all that sort of thing. And if you don't know it, well, stick around. You're about to find out why. It's the radio equivalent of the Q and A's, the notes and queries. So you've got a question somewhere in the back of your mind, like a who or a why or a where or a when. Still the school holidays, of course. So you've probably got all sorts of questions echoing around your mind. If you've got little ones with you at the moment, why do we do that? What's that about? Where does that come from? What's the origin of this? How can that do what, why, where, where, when? Whither, whence? What resulted? What happened? All of those, whatever it may be, the only thing you need to be sure of is that it has an answer. So there must be an answer to this question, but you haven't been able to find it. Hit the numbers now. Zero 345-606-0973 and you will get through. If your question, I need to stress this because you've got so many new people tuning in and ringing in that some of the stuff that we used to take for granted needs to be reiterated. If your question is boring, you will be politely invited to move along. The switchboard goes absolutely nuts for the next 60 minutes and there are only two people manning and womaning it. Okay? So if it's repetitious, that is, if it's something that we've dealt with in the relatively recent past and we can remember dealing with it, then you'll be politely invited to hang up and let somebody else have the phone line. And equally, if you ask your question, and whoever answers the phone says to you, sorry, that's not so. Please don't ring back repeatedly and say, why can't I get on? We decide. I know it's tough. It's like the sign in the pub that says, management's decision is final and you think it's the most interesting question in the world. And you write to management complaining that you phoned in 20 weeks running and you've never got your credit. It's because it's boring and nobody's interested in the answer except you. This is a wonderful exercise in trying to alienate callers to a radio phone in program, because it gets too many calls and we're trying to sort some of the wheat from the chaff before the phones are even picked up. It'll all backfire horribly. You realize that this time next week, no one will be ringing. Say, all right, then, James, why don't you try and do it without us, then, if you don't like our questions so much. But anyway, for now, we shall see what you want solving this week. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Who, why, what, where, when or whither whence, even the occasional wherefore should we crack on? Is everyone clear now? So don't be dull. Mark's in Walthamstow. Mark, what's your question? Hi, James. Britannia, as in rule Britannia. Britannia rules the waves, yes. What's the origins of her? Who dreamt her up? Is she real? Well, I doubt she's real. Or was. Or was. You mean as in the kind of emblem of. The patriotic emblem, the. The personification of Albion, that is Britannia. Correct. Is the song about a person? Is it about a mythical figure? Because we've got an image in our mind of a woman in flowing dresses, haven't we? Britannia? And. But. But is the song actually about that, or is the song not just. I mean, Britannia is the latin word for Britain, I think. Well, you're very well read, James. If I read that, I think I got. My latin teacher probably told me about 40 years or 35 years ago. Well, we'll find out. Is there a Britannia? Is it? Is it? I'm sure there is. Victorian imagery, isn't there? Victorian imagery of Britannia? That's probably when rule Britannia was written. Anyway, why am I trying to answer it when my ignorance is almost a match for Marx? Rob's in Coventry. Rob or answer. It's a question, James. Bring it on. Why do they call doctors quacks? Oh, come on. We should know this, shouldn't we? Between us? I have no idea. I said to the missus the other day, you go into the quack, then? Yeah. Quack was like a bad doctor originally, but it's come to mean any old doctor, hasn't it? Now we're going to the. You know what. This one, I have no idea. Quack. Why is a doctor called a quack? Duck, doc. Duck, doc. No, that's not gonna. That's not gonna float. That's not gonna fly, is it? Duck, doc. No. Crack. You're right. I was only asking. Why do they call doctors quacks? I shall find out for you. Rob or die trying. It's nine minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC Britannia and quacks. Neil's in Morden. Neil, question or answer? Question, please. James. Yes. If I was to stand in the center of London, where would I be? Charing Cross. Is that that dead center of London? Well, in terms of if you're driving up the motorway and it says London's 37 miles away, it's 37 miles to kings to Charing Cross. Okay, that was from one nan. It was for Nan. And it's earned me this. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. See? Okay. It doesn't have to be. Doesn't have to be complicated. And I learned that from mystery hour. That's my qualifications, that we've been doing this a long time now. Some of it is a fine seeped through into the grey matter in my case, Jones, the engineer, absolutely nothing. Still seriously flatlining. Claire's in Brighton. Claire, question or answer? Oh, hello. I have a question. Carry on. And it's if I bought an island in the middle of the ocean and you've had a good year, but if I were to do that, would I be able to make up my own laws for that island? It would depend where in the ocean it was, wouldn't it? Oh, why? I mean, what laws is it that you want to introduce that you can't? I mean, Brighton's pretty lawless already, isn't it? Specific. I was just wondering. Wondering how can I make myself queen and kind of, you know, make up all the laws I like? There are. There are about 3000 greek islands, aren't there? And some of them are up for sale by the government. And I don't know who would police it, but I don't know if you can actually just make up your own laws. If you could make things. I haven't got a clue, Claire. Yeah, it's a good question. It's a very good question. Let's find out if you. I mean, the owners of the Daily Telegraph have got a small channel island, but I don't think they're allowed to make any laws there. I think they have to, sort of. Why am I even talking, Claire? I've just admitted I haven't got a clue. I haven't got. I absolutely haven't even got the beginning of an answer to your question. Give me the first law. Hang on, what's the first law you'd introduce in the land of Clare? Oh, gosh, I really should have thought of that, shouldn't I? Well, yes, frankly, you've rung in with a very interesting question that I presumed was predicated by a deep desire to see a law introduced in Clare land that is currently not allowed in Brighton. But you got nothing. No, I don't. Not yet. But it's eleven minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What? Can you buy an island and make your own laws? If you're rich enough? Richard Branson owns an island, doesn't he? Onassis had an island in Greece. I think some of the russian plutocrats have bought greek islands now. I don't know. Grace is in Woolwich. Grace, question or answer? Question. Yes. Okay. I wanted to know, why is it when women are putting on mascara, they always open their mouth? You're so sexist. You're so sexist. So do men. Okay. So when anybody puts a mascara out, they always open their mouth at the same time and it's not comfortable with your mouth closed. It always has to be open. I don't know why. Concentration, isn't it? It's like sticking your tongue out. I thought it might be like a reflex. Right. Because you're putting something in your eyes and your mouth has to be open? Hang on. I mean, let me just try something here. Get. Try a pen. I am. I've got a pen. All right. We're filming this stuff. We're making it real. We are actually filming. I'm not. I'm not joking. It's not live. We'll put together some hilarious little clips later and you can star it. You can star in this one. Doesn't seem to make. But I'm not looking in the mirror, though. You have to look in the mirror. The lady on the phone says she does it as well. That's no lady. That's my assistant producer do we? Your assistant producer said that she does it as well. Yeah, everybody does it. Does it make your hands still. Sorry, I'm going off on a mad one. I couldn't answer Claire's question, but I tried to. I can't answer your question, but I tried, so I should just shut up and let everybody else get on with it, shouldn't I? Yeah, we should. That's why we need some answers. Okay, all right. Everyone's a blooming critic. Why is it that people always apply their mascara with their mouths open? Who was Britannia? As in Britannia ruled the waves, or as in that shared memory? We've got of a kind of victorian emblem, personification of patriotism. And can you buy your own island anywhere in the world and make your own laws? 30 minutes after twelve is the time. Where are we going next? Let's go to Darren, who's in Orpington. Question or answer? Darren. We need some answers. Come on, guys. Come on, Darren, what's your question? It's a question, James. As usual, you're very kind. I've got half a feeling you might even know this one. Wow. Yeah. Can a religious group become a political party party and rule England? If it's an extreme religious group, or maybe not so extreme, can they actually become a religious party? Yeah. And ruling. Yeah, of course it can. Right. There's no sort of magna Carta ruling or anything like that. This is. You can't become. You can't, because you have the head of the head. You can't be Lord Chancellor if you're a Catholic. But, I mean, you could invent a new pillar. You could invent. I think it's Lord Chancellor. But you can be prime minister. You can say, I think you can set up anything you want. You just got to get enough votes, obviously. Yeah. I preach that. It's one of. There was something written. Is there an obstacle to it being religious? Conservative party, Ulster Union. Surely some of the parties in Belfast are effectively religious, aren't they? Effectively. But are they can say we are the extreme? Well, if it was extreme, they wouldn't win an election. Yeah. We want to become the of England and promote our laws and change the way, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It was a conversation and some chums when we're in the dinner table. But if you still have. You'd still have to win a majority of seats in parliament to form a government. Yes. Yeah. But I don't. So you mean it wouldn't be extreme if it won a democratic majority? It would be the majority desire. But I don't know. I don't know. I mean, I don't think there's anything in Magna Carta about it. But is there anything to stop the Catholic Church, the jewish faith, the muslim faith? Actually, just setting up the catholic party, the muslim party, the jewish party? I can't imagine there's anything in law. You'd just be alienating quite a lot of potential voters from the get go, wouldn't you? How about the. I'm not really sure, but, you know, I like the hymns party. It's 12, 15, 20 minutes after twelve. Britannia, the origins thereof, both the song and the sort of personification of patriotism represented by Britannia. Where does that come from? Who invented it? Why do so many people? Obviously not all people, because a few have told me that they don't open their mouths when they apply their mascara, so it's like sticking your tongue out when you're threading a needle. Something to do with concentration, and I should have answered this at the time. Can a religion become a political party? The answer is yes, because there was a christian party around at the time of the last election. So I'll have a round of applause for that, please, judge. What a lovely way to start a segment. Peter's in Croydon. Peter, or answer. Um. Answer. James, are you in charge? The docs. The docs. The ducks. The ducks. Or docs. Why doctors are called ducks? They're not. Doctors are called quacks. Yeah, well, they're not called ducks. Quack. Quacks. Thank you. Hello. The reason is that they. In the days of the. Of the plague, the great plague doctors of the. A doctors used to wander around with a big cape hood, and the hood was covering their head and they had a big filter in the nose and it looked like. They looked like ducks walking around, and that's. Hence they got the name quack. Was it because of the spores? Yeah, to stop the spores. They thought then the spores would be inhaled, so it was a filter to stop the spores being inhaled. But they were wrong, weren't they? Well, I guess that's why they look like ducks and that's why they're called quack. Is that you or me? That's you, is it? Yeah. Appointment with the nurse after the program. Someone's gone horribly wrong. Qualifications, Peter? History book. That's all from many years. Yep. You're over the luck, mate. You've got it. It's there. Round of applause. And your own sound effects as well. That's a privilege that's extended to very few people 22 minutes after twelve. So we can cross off the quacks. We still need the Britannia and the mascara and any other questions you have. Jack's in woking. Jack, question or answer? Question, please. Go on, mate. It's basically our little girl asked us one day when I was sitting there watching a program with her, it's, why don't penguins feet freeze? Why don't penguins feet freeze? Yeah. It's a classic question there. You know, she's a clever girl. Yeah. I mean, I just couldn't answer. New scientist magazine have a kind of pale imitation of mystery hour that's published a book, I think, which is called why don't penguins feet free? So it is one of the sort of questions that's at the very heart of what we try and do every Thursday. The answer is blood. But that won't be enough for you to tell your little girl, will it? It won't. So what you've got on a penguin's feet, you've got two things going on. The first is that they can control the flow of blood to their feet in the same way that we can. You know, when you're cold, your fingers will go white and when you're warm, they'll go pink. So they can control the amount of blood. So the less blood that's there, the less sort of cold they're going to feel. But they've also got something else which humans haven't got at the top of their legs, which allows the arteries full of hot blood to split into loads and loads of tiny little bits to keep the feet warm. And then, of course, they also sit on them and feather and blubber and shelter. The fundamental difference between a human feet and a penguin foot is that the blood flow regulates the temperature and it's designed in such a way that it keeps their feet above freezing. It's about 40 degrees centigrade, I think, the average body weight of a penguin, body temperature of a penguin. I got you. So the amount of blood going into the feet, effectively, they can control both the quantity and the heat of the blood. We can control the quantity in ours, but we can't really control the heat. There's not enough time for the blood to freeze in the feet because they. They're constantly controlling it. Yeah. Not enough for it to get cold. Yeah. Because it's being pumped around and it's. So the cold blood is being replaced by warmer. But you're moving me away from my comfort zone a bit now. I thought I'd given you enough, but. But, hey, that's all right. Thanks, James. Lovely. And if you, if you. How old is she? How old is your girl? She's only nine. That's all right. I've got a nine year old. If you. If you want to sort of blind her with science, if she's getting a bit skeptical and thinking you might have got it wrong, just keep saying the word hypothalamus. Ah, okay. That'll soon show her up. That'll soon shut her up. Hypothalamus, sweetheart. And if that fails because I said so, it's 24 minutes after twelve. Round of applause for me. Sorry, I haven't had a week like this. I can't. What do you want me to do? Pretend I don't know. Stuff? What would be the point of that? Gary's in Sardinia. Gary, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a pleasure to be speaking to Bongiorno. What it is is myself and my fiance. We're in the day out two days ago on the sailing boat. Oh, lovely. And it was quite choppy. And we come back to the evening, had dinner and we both had the feeling that we were both on the boat still, that kind of feeling. Been in the waves and we just wondered what that was because last minute she wasn't sure. I like that. So you're back on dry land, but you still feel a bit seasick? Yeah, we, you know, it's definitely. We really did feel that was out. I've heard of this before. I mean, we were. We were on a boat ride the other day in Scotland and misses O'Brien had exactly the same phenomenon. I think it's got something to do with your ears, but I'm not going to get a round of applause for. It's got something to do with your ears. Yeah, but I just wasn't sure the definitive answer. I'll find out for you. How long are you in Sardinia for? We fly back on Saturday and we're getting married on Sunday, mate. Get in. A mini moon. Oh, fantastic. A pre moon, actually. That sounds a bit wrong on the beach. And is your. Is your fiance completely cool with you tuning into mystery hour in the middle of your pre wedding holiday? She loves it. Music. Can we do something? I want to do something for Gary. Come on, we got. Come on, Jones, get your finger out, will you? Honestly, the man's getting married on Sunday. Anything? You've got a quack for the last fight. We got. Anything for Gary. What's your fiancee call, Gary? Selen. Selen? Yeah, Gary and Selen. Anything. That's right, Jones, anything, Jones. Anything. He hasn't I don't know. He might have got a camera in the way now. Is he still away? Is he there? Oh, this is it. Where did you pick this up, mate? It's bomb tempe organ out in the control studio. I'm more than grateful. There you go, Gary, that was for you. Yeah, well, you scared. You played at the wedding. Best of luck on Sunday. To both of you. To you and Celine. Seriously, what a lovely thing to be doing on your. On your pre wedding holiday, listening to us 27 minutes after twelve. Where did you find that? Honestly? Three stringed violin or something. Marks in Ipswich. Mark. Question or answer? It's an answer, James, carry on. Right, about the island. Can you buy your own island? Yes. Just off the coast of Suffolk, there is a world war two gun emplacement that was used to shoot down german planes attempting to place sea mines. In the 1970s, it was sold to the Bates family, who then started the Principality of Sealand. Sealands. That's it. Yes, that's it. Yeah, they have. It's not even an island, it's a man made structure. But it's offshore. But. Yeah, but it's offshore and it's in international waters. Yeah. They've got their own constitution. They even have their own international football team. They also have a half marathon, which they probably just. Prince Michael of Sealand just running around for 13 miles. But, yeah, they have. They have everything you can. You can even pay them to become a duke or a lord. It's an unrecognized micro nation. That's the technical term. But if they found out that it was being, I don't know, some appalling crimes were being committed there, would there be nothing that her Majesty's constabulary could do? No, because they've declared independence of the UK. They are their own principality and they have their own constitution and everything else. In fact, the island was invaded by dutch and german businessmen and they actually managed to invade it back using a stuntman, I think, from a James Bond film and other people. Okay, this is one of my favorite answers ever. It's quite mad. But yes, they have their own Ireland with their own constitution and everything else. It was in 1978, I believe, that, that, um, assault german and dutch mercenaries used to try and tie. I mean, it's all quite iffy. Barking barking yes, but it has earned you a round of applause. Thank you very much. Well, play. How far from Ipswich is it? How far from Ipswich is it? Well, we go to Felix, though, quite often. Yeah. And you can look out and you can just see it on the horizon. It looks like a little, you know, like the symbol piece. It just slips at the track. What a lovely answer. What a lovely answer. So, I guess, I mean, if you can find something suitable in international waters, I don't know, you'd buy it off. Better off just sticking a flag in it and claiming it as your own. Clare in Brighton, who asked the original question, but that seems to be a definitive answer. Qualifications are. That's Mark lives in Ipswich and it's not far away. It's in Suffolk as well. It's coming up to 12:30. Still need to know about opening your mouth when you're applying your mascara. Why does seasickness sometimes persist once you're back on dry land? And who invented Britannia? As in the, you know, the victorian personification of all things patriotic? Hit the numbers now. You will get through. It's 12:30 hours with James O'Brien on LBC, 33 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. Why does seasickness persist when we're back on terra firma? And why do we open our mouths when we're doing our mascara? Room for more questions now, actually, it's very neatly arranged. This week, we should be able to achieve complete completion. Complete? Complete, yeah. Ella's and Islington. Ella. Question or answer? It's an answer for the mascara question. Bring it on. So I figured this out. It's if you're putting your mascara on, you have to put your head upwards so that your eyelids go down so that you can get to your eyelashes. Yeah. And if you put your head upwards, then it's automatic for your jaw to rest downwards. If you try it now, you'll see that there's, like, pressure on your jaw. If you look up. You got it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You have to do it in a mirror to figure it out. But if you look up in the mirror, then you get a better angle at your eyelashes. Do you? It also puts the pressure on your chin to open. So gravity. Yeah. And anyone who doesn't close their mouth is kind of consciously deciding not to. It doesn't open their mouth, whereas the natural kind of. Yeah, it works. Maybe they just have a really flexible jaw so they don't feel the need to. Could be. Hang on. I just put some on. I think that's. I think. I think you're right. It's to do with the angle of the head as much as it is to do with anything. Well, it's entirely to do with the angle of the head qualifications. My sister's a makeup artist. That's got nothing to do with your answer at all, has it? Not really, no. I think that's. I'm going to go with that. That sounds definitive to me. Quick, show of hands. Show of hands. Show of hands. Yeah, you got the clap. Well played, Ella. Patrick's in Croydon. I don't know if you should share that with your sister, actually. No, not on this occasion. Patrick's in Croydon. Question or answer? Patrick. Oh, hello, James. Good day to you. Thank you. Yes. Right. How can you help a child, like a toddler, who is screaming his head off inconsolably on an aircraft, especially landing and take off? Do we just let it scream or can we help that child in any way? Is this a personal problem that you've had this summer or expo. Yeah, it's horrible, isn't it? And you always sort of think, I can actually answer this question. I don't have any medical qualifications. My qualifications for answering this question, my qualification is experience, Patrick, because it happened to us many, many years ago, and a lovely lady, because, you know when it's happening on a plane and you've got this idea in your head, everyone's tutting at you and looking and, oh, can't that baby be quiet? Why can't that baby be quiet? Actually, decent people are sort of thinking, well, they're. But for the grace of God go I. Or that could have been me a few years ago. And this lovely lady, I think we. Where were we flying to? I think we're flying to Majorca, and this lovely lady and my other should be about 18 months. Absolute agony on the plane. And we're chomping away on boiled sweets and doing lots of yawning and stretching. And our ears are fine, but obviously her ears are playing havoc with her. And this lady came over and just said, give her ears a good rub, like, right in the kind of. Just. Just rub that. Rub her ears. It might not work, but it's the best chance you've got. So we started rubbing her little ears. Boom, she was fine. You mean, right. Right across the earlobe. Well, I'm not the earlobe. More the kind of. I'm just going to take my headphones off, if that's alright with you, Patrick, because I want to get this right. Okay? It's like radio with a red button, this. Okay, so the bit. What's that bit called there? Not. Not like the bit that's right above the hole. So you just think where the pain is when your ears hurt. On a plane. Yeah. Right. I do know. So just massage quite firmly where the. Where the pain is on. On you. Copy it. Copy it on the child. This is presuming that you've tried. You've tried a dummy and it's. And it's failed because a dummy helps. They can do the swallowing and the sucking and that. That helps clear the ear as well. Yeah. So a dummy coupled with ear rubs. Okay, so you think that will work? You can. What do you mean I think that will work? I told you it does work. And I've done it on video. You can watch it on video later. I've just done it for the camera in the studio. I took my headphones off for you and everything. Thanks, James. You're welcome. I thought this is an impossible problem. No, Matt. Well, I'm not. There's no guarantees, Patrick. It's just a matter of trying. But it worked for me. That's all I can tell you. Lovely. From one dad to another. One dad to another. Bon chance. Thanks, James. 1238 Nixon, Battersea. Question or answer? I'm hoping it's actually going to be an answer. So am I. Now, it's regarding why do you feel seasick once you actually step off the boat? Yes. It's got to do with the liquid in your ears. Yes. When you are on the boat and you've been on the boat for several hours, when you step onto dry land, the liquid is still moving in your ear, so you actually still rocking from side to side. So that's why it's also known as sea legs. Yes. And you can. Pete points out that you can always tell when a sailor's just got off a ship because they waddle. Their brain is kind of expecting the deck or the ground to be moving underneath them, as it did at sea. So a combination of that and that would explain why you still feel a bit shaky on your feet when you're back on terra firma. Qualifications, Nick? I am a biology student and I used to actually work as a dive master in Thailand for three years. That's a bit too good to be true, pal, isn't it? Well, that was about 15 years ago, so round of applause for Nicholas, please. Well played. Well played indeed. Are we just down to Britannia now? I think we are. Which means we've got room for some more questions. It's only 1230 now. I'm getting through loads today. What a veritable cornucopia of enlightenment this week's mystery hour is proving to be. Plus really, really funny rubbish. Sound effects courtesy of Jones, the engineer. Go on, give yourself a little fanfare in your own time. I knew it was too good to last. Alan's in bushy. Alan, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Yeah, I have an answer. James. You're not looking for work at the moment, are you, Alan? I need. I need a new sound effects engineer. I'm not very good on sound much. It depends what sounds you're after. He's probably better than him. Welcome aboard, Alan. I'm on the team. Question or answer? Yeah, James, I have an answer for you. Hopefully for the Britannia. Oh, yes. Basically, old english coins going back to the 1415 hundreds for the insignia of the Britannia, which I don't know where that originates from, but why it came to be for the song, for rule Britannia, when we used to do trading on our ships going across the ocean, we ruled the waves in trading. And that's where. Yeah. We need to know where the emblem, where the figure comes from, the woman, and without looking it up, I can't say I'm not prepared to look it up. You're not allowed to look it up. Yeah, well, that's why I'd get cut off, otherwise. You will. Not just that. You'd be banned. Oh, dear. Couldn't have that. No. We'd come up with some real torturous sound effect for you if you look stuff up. So sort of kind of no problem. However. Yeah. However, if you look up old english coins, where it first originated on. It's on the groat, if that's any use to anyone. I don't think it is. Oh, okay. I don't mean to be brutal, but I mean, in the quest for the origins of Britannia, I don't know that the word groat plays any useful purpose in that. I thought the question was relating to rule Britannia. No. Originates in the song. I misheard then. Well, now you're making me feel bad. Now. Maybe I misheard because he did say rule Britannia, and you mentioned rules. Rules the waves. Yeah. But I think he wanted to know where Britannia came from. In rule Britannia. I see. Oh, that's where it comes from. It was on the ships they were doing trading. And where was it before that? So was Britannia like a figurehead? Yes, it was. It may have been. The figurehead, actually, on ships of. May have been. May have been. May have been. Doesn't any parsnips? I can't go certain on that. Britannia is the earliest record. I've got a bit for groats on the old coins. What's the feeling. What are the crowd feeling on this one? Is there a sense that Alan deserves something? I mean, he's already had a fan. Do you know what, mate? I think I'd be grateful for the fanfare. That's all. You're gonna grateful for the fanfare, being a trumpeter, are you a trumpeter? I used to play trumpet many years ago. In a band. Yeah. What sort of man? A brass band. The Edge Air Training Corps. Oh, wow. So, proper marching band? JLGB marching band. I played at the Royal festival. Royal Albert hall. Sorry? Royal Albert hall. Well, yeah. You've outhorned me. I'm blame my own trumpet now. I knew there was a gag there. I couldn't work out what it was. Yours was a million. So give him a round of applause for the gag. Well done. But not for the answer, because I still don't believe that we've nailed the true origins of Britannia. Professor Hal is next. Which doesn't really make any sense. Professor Hal's in Brighton. Question or answer? Professor Hal. It's an answer because there's such slim pickings and science questions. There's no science here this week. I'm on holiday and a wafer thin Internet connection. We'll have a question then. I'm reading a book, and in common with many other books, on the first page of each chapter, the first line is two thirds in upper case, and I don't know why. Why would it be? Why not have it in sentence case aesthetics? I don't know what that word means, James. Just the way it know. Looks nice. I don't believe that. Well, what other reason can there possibly be? You know, occam's razor. Never know. Zebras and hoof beats and stuff like that. But why doesn't it look any nicer than. Oh, it does. Oh, it does. What are you reading? What's the book? That might be a clue. It's an astronaut's guide to life on Earth by Chris Hadfield. But it happens in most books. Yes. Why? Okay, we need a publisher or a typesetter. Why does the first line of each chapter appear mostly in capitals, two thirds of the first line? I think you're going to find it. It's because it's been shown that it encourages you to start reading and aesthetically pleasing. But I'm happy to wait until an expert provides that answer. Where are you on your holidays? We're in Torquay, and it's rained all week. Mistria has been my single thing to look forward to all week. It's been raining and raining and raining. The kids are okay. I'm just sitting here gloomily on the 15th cappuccino of the day. You should have gone to Sardinia. It's lovely there. Thank you, James. Thank you, Hal. Coming on to quarter to one, talking. It's been raining all week. It's the English Riviera, mate. Honestly. Ben's in Hendon. Ben, question or answer? Question. Yes. Hi. When you crack an egg and the shell breaks into the white of the egg, it's pretty much impossible to get the egg out with your finger. But to get it out comfortably is to put another piece of shell and scoop it out. And the two react to each other, do they? And then the shell just slips back into the shell and you can pull it back out again. Why is that so? Why can't you do it with your fingers? Why can't you do it with your fingers? Squidginess. Squidginess. What? Squid. The shells. Want to squidge it, but your fingers. Your finger is. Yeah, but even if you scrape it against the bottom. Yeah, it's still squidging. Slides back in. Still squidging. Still squidging. Ben. You need a bit of shell. You could also use a knife, couldn't you? Because it's solid. It's the squidginess of the finger that it prevents you from satisfactorily skewering or sticking to the shell. Fair enough. It's gotta be. Not much to say. It's gotta be, hasn't it? I have no idea. That's what I'm calling and asking. How many rounds of applause have I had today? What do you mean, too many? There's no such thing as too many. I can't. You want me to leave that on or. I'll take. I'll take the round of applause at the end, Ben. All right. I'm not gonna take it now in case. See how it rolls. It's 1240 612 50. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC mystery are underway. I am intrigued by the answers to the following questions. We haven't really done it. The eggs question. What was the book's question? Oh, Professor Hale's question. Why? Why have you got capitals on the top line of chapters two thirds of the way across? We need a typesetter or a publisher to answer that. And the origins of Britannia, as in the personification of the country. Not the word. Where does that come? She used to be on coins as well. We've been a bit thick on this one, haven't we? She carries a trident, a fork. Where does she come from? And why can you get a bit of eggshell out of an egg with a bit of eggshell but not with your finger? Sorry for everyone here, Gary's in Broxborn. Gary, question or answer? Yeah, question, please. James. Yeah? Who are the barcode police? I mean, every item that you look at has got a barcode on it. It seems to be every item and I know that that barcode is unique to that item. I just wonder who monitors at all. I quite like that question. I was about to start shouting at you for being dull. Well, I actually started with them. We went to Steve Allen's magic show last year. Really? I know. I'm going this year as well. Are you glam for punishment on you or St Eve, as I call him? I like that. Yeah, go on. What's that got to do with barcodes? Was he flogging t shirts again out the back of the Bentley? No, there was one of the guys. He did a gag that involved barcode. Did it? Yeah. Yeah. I won't spoil. I won't spoil. No, you better not. You. You get thrown out the magic circle. That's right. So, because we've all got a tin of soup in our cupboard at home and it's. They've all got barcodes on them. Who decided that tins of soup got that particular barcode? You got it or. Yeah, yeah, that's right. If I was to invent a product tomorrow and stick it on the shelves in your local supermarket, who decides what barcode goes on it? Because a tin of soup in sandwich, where do you go to get your barcodes from? In other words? That's it. Yeah, I like this. If I don't how long you've been listening to the program, but a few years ago. Long, long time. That's very kind. Do you remember when we invented fisheries? No, I'm afraid I don't, no. It was a very brief window of opportunity. We thought we'd invented fishages and we were looking into the possibility of putting them into production. It's like a sausage but made of fish. Oh, yeah. See, that's how everyone responds. Sounds like great. I apparently can already buy me marks and spark. Someone else told me. But we were looking into this and we didn't get as far as the barcode. But, um. But I just wanted to say fisheries on the radio again. Yeah. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. Fisheries Warren's in northward. What do you want? I am. What do you want? Hello, you. Well, I can't answer about old queens of England? Well, I know a few, but I can't answer the question. I listened to a few this. I listened to one of them this morning, actually. Enough, please. Thank you. Right. Now, listen, I've got. Can I break the protocol of question time? As long as you're quiet and so quickly answer a question, then quickly ask one, because it may it. If I do that, because it may be very pertinent to what you were saying just now. Oh, you've got me intrigued now. So go ahead, feel your boots. Okay. The answer to the baby question is. Well, I've actually forgotten the question to the baby question. But was it, why do babies cry? No. What can you do? But I thought I'd already dealt with Patrick's plight about helping babies stop crying on airplanes. But what would you do? Um, well, you can't stop it crying. Is that what you rang in to tell me? Well, yeah. This isn't. This is a new low. Well, you can't, can you? How do you stop a baby crying on the ground? It's no different to stop a baby crying in the air. Well, you can. I mean, it's because it's in pain in the air. It's crying because his ears hurt. So if you rub his ears, he gets a bit better. No, you shouldn't rub the ears. What do you know about this? What are your qualifications? Well, I haven't got children. You're at your air crew. Yeah. You're not. You can't go around giving medical advice. Yeah, well, you can. We are medically qualified to a degree. But you can't. Yet, the idea. Not degree. Not a degree. Degree. No. But a certain degree. Yeah. The reason that. The reason is trapped air. It's. The air is the expansion of air within the ear tunnel. If you gently rub the ear tunnel, it will let some of the air escape. We might trap the air in. Well, it's already trapped in, Warren. That's why the ear hurts. But you might trap it. Yeah, but you might stop it coming out. No, you won't. Not if you do it gently. Oh, really? How gently? About like this. There you go. You got that? Yeah. Okay, well, try it next time you fly. You got two children. I did. This is the whole point. This is what I told Patrick. It worked on my children. Okay. I've just given you the golden key to a happy flight deck. You can't believe you didn't know this yourself. When. When is your next flight? Um, Monday. Right. Any. Any weeping. Any weeping children on that flight? You. You just say. Have you tried giving his ear a little rub like that. Or giving her ear a little. And you let me know how you get on. Anyway, I'll give you some feedback. Anyway, quick question. You said just now. What? You said just now. You. You said just what you said. You. You said just now. You've got loads of answers but no questions. So that's my question. When question times run out of questions. What are you going to do as the presenter of the radio program? We'll have to park it. Warren. What? Finished? Yeah. Put it away for good? Yeah. And how will you fill your hour? I don't know. I've come up with something. I manage the other 14 of the week. Okay. That's it, then. Yeah. What I might do is invite aircrew to ring in with medical advice for children for an hour. We could call it the medical aircrew advice hour. Yeah. Well, to a degree you might affect show that way. Yeah, that's true. I might tread on it. I might tread on it. Happy flying, Warren. Bon voyage. Stephens in Hampstead. Question or answer, Stephen? Hi. It's an answer. We're going to have to steer things back from the slightly surreal tone that the last call assumed. If that's all right with you, Stephen? I want you to be the voice of seriousness. The voice of seriousness, please, Stephen. Ok. It's an answer. Carry on. Barcode question. It's very simple. There is one organization in each country that's in charge of the barcode. In the UK, it's called GS one and you have to buy the barcodes only from them. They're the only ones that get them out and it's the manufacturer that would buy them rather than the retailer. That's right. You have to buy huge quantities and it goes. So there are plenty of companies that actually buy them and then resell them on. However, you're not guaranteed. They could then actually sell the same barcodes onto someone else. That's always best to go straight to the organization that runs it. So if I was going to market fisheries on a national scale, I'd have to go to GS one and get a barcode apportioned to me, which then my printing equipment could stick on all my fisheries packaging. That's right. And you're the only one that gets that barcode range. Think of your whole range of barcodes qualifications. I manufacture products and buy barcodes. Well, that'll do. Well played, Stephen. Ben's in Orpington. Ben, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Your egg conundrum. Yes. In egg. Yes. The reason that you can't pick it out of your fingers is because the egg white is a protein, which is a viscous liquid and your don't have any corners on them. Yeah. So if you try and pinch a bit of eggshell out, they just slip out because it gets caught between a bit of membrane between your finger and the shell. Yeah. So if you shell in it, you can actually use the corner of the shell to scoop it. So it's about purchase then, rather than squidginess. Although squidginess still seems relevant to your answer. There's no corners on squidginess. No. So even if it was squidgy, if it had a corner, yeah. You could still. Qualifications. I asked the same question to my food tech teacher when I was 13. See, I. That'll do nicely. Now, we covered it all and we're out of time and we've answered every question except Professor Howells. Sorry about that. We'll do it all again tomorrow from ten. I'll be here then. I hope you can join me. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the next voice you will hear belongs to Tom Sawbrick. James.