Why don't GIFs have sound?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC. I might start saying mystery hour like that every time, mistrow, because it gets in your mind better psychology. This is mystery hour. You'll hear it now. Every time I say mystery hour in your head, you're going to hear mystery anyway. Enough nonsense. There is a board game to be won and it will go to whoever delights me the most. Whichever contribution to this week's mystery hour is adjudged by me and me alone. Although I might take some guidance from you on this to be the most enjoyable. That's it. And it's very much in the eye of the beholder. The full terms and conditions are available at LBC dot co dot UK dot. And if you want to find out more about the game itself, and remember, Christmas is on the way and not everybody wants the book. Some people might want the board game. You need to get over to mysteryhour dot co dot uk dot to find out how you can get your hands on a copy. A copy. I don't know what the correct word is. Anyway. Get your hands on the rather brilliant mystery hour board game four minutes after twelve. The way it works is this. People ring in with questions and then other people ring in with answers. It may not sound particularly exciting, but it routinely constitutes the most enjoyable hour of the week that we spend together. Routinely. Not always, but it's a fairly reliable bit of fun. I also offer up a guarantee most weeks, or I used to. I stopped for a while, can't remember why. I offer up a guarantee most weeks that you will have at least one laugh out loud moment in the course of the next 54 or so minutes. And I'm prepared to stand by that pledge today and refund all of your tickets if you do not have a laugh out loud moment in the course of the next 54 or so minutes. The number you need, you know what the number is, but I do give it out because I do want to tempt new people on board. It's hard to get through, but it's not impossible. All right, so zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And the number remains the same whether you're ringing in with a question to ask or whether you're ringing in to answer somebody else's question. Five minutes after twelve. Shall we start? I think we should. With Deb in Solihull. Deb question or answer? Question. Carry on. When does a war become a world war? I quite like that. I can't believe we've not done it before, but I can't remember the answer. So when does it work? I mean, would it be when a treaty kicks in? No, can't just be that, can it? When allies have to. So you've got treaties with allies, if they get attacked, you have to join in. So. But then how many countries? Well, exactly, yeah. Was it, I mean, is it even a world war, even some of the ones we call world wars? Was the first world war really a world war in the cold war? And this is what made me think, because I was then thinking with, obviously what's going on then if other people start getting involved, at what point is it like, right, this isn't just regional anymore, this is world. But in the last world war, not everybody got involved. Okay. There will actually be, I'm pretty sure that historians will have a sort of criteria for this. There will be a broad academic consensus on when a war becomes a world war and we will find out what it is for you debate. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. When does a war become a world war? And can it start as a non world war, but then as it escalates become a war? Presumably it can. Well, it must. Of course it can. I like that question. Roy's in Honiton. Roy, question or answer? It's a question. James, can I just ask you a little side question? Oh, I don't know. What is it? Why do you say when you first call a question or answer when there's not been any questions? Just to establish whether they've got a question or an answer. What were they answering if you haven't said any? There's no questions before that. I don't know. I'm just having to check though, don't I? Anyway, so my question is, you know when professional tennis players are just about to serve? Yes. And they look at their tennis balls and they discard one or they discard another, what are they looking for? That's a really good question. It's not just professional tennis players. I do it all the time. I've got no idea what. So, I mean, you might think that one is slightly harder than the other or they've got a bit. There could be suspicion, couldn't they, kicking in? I got an ace with that one. I'm going to use it again. But it must come round again because they use those balls all the time until new balls. So they're looking at the same ball. And then they jettison one of them. So we need Andrew Castle, don't we? Or someone like that. We need a professional tennis player to tell us whether or not there is anything going on there. Except because there's a lot of habits. Do you watch a lot of tennis? Only when it's on professionally, during Wimbledon, that kind of thing. Rafa Nadal's pre serve rituals are extraordinary to watch. He goes through a succession of rituals and the ball no doubt plays a part in that process as well. But whether or not you're actually making a quality control based choice of ball, I do not know. It seems unlikely for the reasons you allude to, but we should put it on the board. Tennis balls and world wars. There you go. All human life is here. Thank you, Roy. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Rob's in Bracknell. Rob, question or answer? Hello, question. Carry on. I was suffering with a bad cold the other week. I'm very sorry to hear that. Yeah. Better now. Were you very brave? Were you a brave little soldier or. I was a brave soldier. Well done. However, my dog came up by the side of me and stayed with me while I was cold in bed. And I want. My question is, do dogs catch human viruses? How well was your dog all right? She was fine. So she didn't catch anything off you on this occasion? No coughing, no sneezing as I thought. Isn't it incredible how they know when you're poorly? Yeah, yeah, it's, uh, quite comforting. It is quite comforting. It. Our cats do as well. Especially with my goals. The cat. The cat. We'll know when one of them's a bit under the weather and just go and lie with them. I don't know. I mean, I don't even know. I can't even begin to start pondering this one. I haven't got a clue. Someone will know. Can cat. Can pets catch viruses, colds from humans? Yeah. Zero 345-606-0973 thank you, Rob. I like that one as well. Karen's in Grantham. Karen, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Right, well, I've just done battle, taking my sheets in off the washing line. It's a question I've been thinking about for a bit now, and especially watching the fires on Attenborough, you know, when there was. Well, the question is how fast is the fastest the wind can blow? Because sometimes you'll say, oh, it's blowing at 50 miles an hour, then we'll get a gale and it's blowing like. I don't know, 100 miles an hour. And if there are limits, is what I suppose I'm trying to say. Yeah. To how fast the wind can blow. And if there is, can someone explain it to me? I mean, the fastest recorded wind speed, would that be an answer to your question? Well, if that's the fastest recorded. But could it possibly go any faster? Yeah, I think. I mean, I can't see that there would be a measurable limit on wind speed. I mean, because it's so many different factors combining. Yeah. Well, I don't. I don't even know why I'm trying to answer this question. I don't know either. How windy is it in Grantham at the moment? Well, it's not too bad. It's windy enough to sort of cause your grief trying to get the sheets in. But it's very flat, isn't it? Well, not that flat, is it? Not that flat. It's in Lincolnshire. I always think of Lincolnshire. Yeah, there's bits of Lincolnshire. The fence, they're very flat. So you get. The wind probably gets up more speed on a good old flat plain than it would do with hills and things. Yeah. I mean, it's like. It's like the hottest temperature, isn't it? Is there an absolute hottest. I don't think you're going to get an answer to that bit, but I'll try. I'll put it on the board. You should get an answer to the fastest recorded wind. The fastest? Oh, how fastest? Or can somebody work out? You know, they do these clever sums to work things out. Yeah. Is there something that can work out that wind can only ever go faster than that because the temperature can never go higher than this or whatever. Yeah. I'm not massively optimistic about that bit of this, but. No, I want to be. I want to get you an answer. I'm going to try, but I can't imagine what that calculation would look like, really. No, no, no. Okay, you're on. Thank you, Karen. Lovely stuff. It's eleven minutes after twelve. I struggle with the time when it's consecutive like that. 1211, 1112. I said twelve. It's now 1212. That's much easier. You can't get that the wrong way around, can you? It's 1212. I'll say it the other way around. Still 1212, you see? Absolutely golden. But when it's 1112 or 1211, I get a bit thrown. Kiri's in bounds. Green. Kiri. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Right, so everything that we know is contained within the universe. Right. And the universe is constantly expanding. But what's it expanding into if everything's contained within the universe? But who said everything is contained within the universe? Well, that's what the theory goes, as scientists, when I've watched documentaries. Well, that's not a very satisfactory answer to my question, is it? So what is. What is. What is the universe expanding into? Darkness. You know, darkness? Nothingness. Nothingness? Nothingness. I would have thought it's still within the universe. No, it's without the universe because we're expanding in it. In it? Well, then that means, no, it's not in it. It's in it. These questions make my teeth itch, man. I mean, which means it's a good question. It's not a good question. It's not a good question. Well, it is a good question, but the answer. You're thinking of it in terms of three dimensional physics, and you can't do that with the universe. It is. It's expanding into and also away from itself, you see? Yeah, I get that. But there has to be something that expands into. There doesn't. There doesn't. No, there doesn't have to be. You're just thinking in the wrong way. It's as if you're speaking a different language. You're thinking in physical terms, but the universe doesn't obey the parameters in which you're thinking. It doesn't expand into anything or come from any. It just expands. Mmm. That doesn't. Yeah, it does. There has to be a better answer than that. It does not. You would say that my answer is expanding from itself and into itself. I mean, that's a good answer. I must admit that's quite good answer, but. All right, you're on. What does the universe expand into? The answer is nothing. You just don't like my explanation because I'm not an academic. The answer is nothing. If you get Brian Coxon that says that, then I'd say yes. But I mean, send him a book. Actually, you've just reminded me. Thank you for that. All right. What is the universe expanded? We agree that the universe is expanding. Yes. Therefore, the question of what is it expanding into? Seems like a sensible question. So we'll ask it. Okay, great. Carry on. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Um. Cam is in nuneaton. Cam. Question or answer? Answer. I need to, um. Hello? Hello? Hello, can you hear me? No, it's an answer to a question regarding the, um. Basically transmitting pets and colds. Yeah, that's the one, basically. Um, the term is zoonosis, I believe. Come on, zoonosis? Yeah. And sensational diseases and certain conditions can be transmitted from dogs to tumors. I only know that because my nan was an infection control nurse and she basically used to tell me, you know, don't get too close to the dog, you know, licking your face and stuff like that, because, you know, they can give you conditions and you can give them. If they're not too. Well. Well, yeah. So it cuts both ways, then. Zoonosis can be either animal to human or human to animal. That's the one, yeah, but it's only certain conditions, I believe. Certain diseases. It's not like. What? Do we have any ideas? Well, rabies. Rabies? Yeah, I suppose, yeah. Definitely. Used to see the signs at the ferry terminal telling you not to, you know, bring a dog back from France because it might have rabies. It could give rabies to a human. Can a human give rabies to a dog? Potentially. There's a question. There's a question for Christmas dinner, Cam. Yes. And it's. You've even come up with a word for it. Well, you didn't come up with it. Sees not. No sis. Noses. As in noses. Apologies? Zoo noses. Dyslexic. No, I'm just checking. I think it is zoo noses. Zoo noses, yeah. Anyways, qualifications? Got clever. Nan. Got a clever nan. I'm doing a undergraduate degree. So there it goes. Round of applause for Cam. Okay. Zoo noses. You won't forget that word either. Zoo noses. So you can remember it. You can, you can have an aid memoir. So. Oh, I caught. I caught a disease off an animal. What? What happened? A zebra wiped its nose on me and I caught a disease and then you remember, ah, zoo noses. Zoo noses. Zoo noses. It's called zoo noses. Zoo noses. Matt's infinity, Matt. Question or answer? It's an answer for you, James. Carry on. It's an answer to the tennis ball question. It's. To be honest, it's quite a simple one, mate. We're all friends. We're only having a bit of. It's just a bit of fun. Go on. So what they're looking for when they are about to serve is they tend to look for the bore which is the freshest, so it's the one which is the least fluffed up, because that will have the greatest wind resistance. Yeah. It flies faster through the air, the less fluffy it is. Yeah. For the second serve, though, they're probably going to look for a more fluffy ball because they're going to put some spin on it. Exactly. Yeah. And other things might play a part as well, but basically it's going to be fluffiness. Yeah. So the other things that will play a part, actually, yeah. The guy that asked the question was right when he talked about superstition. So if you do hit an ace or you win a certain point with a ball, I will tend to possibly go and get that myself. Yeah. I don't have four boys delivered to me, but, yeah, there it is. Qualifications. I play tennis quite a lot. Nice one round of applause. Makes sense. You're right, it is obvious when it's explained, but it still needed to be explained. It can be zoonosis or zoonoses. It's singular or plural. Thank you. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. Oh, we better do this, haven't we? 21 minutes after twelve is the time. What is the universe expanding into? We've done the pets and colds. What is the definition of a world war? At what point does a war become a world war? What's the fastest wind can travel? Is that is. And is there a limit on it? We've done the tennis balls, we've done the pets and the toads going, no, I like this coming along. Matt. Sim Worthing. Matt, question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please carry on. So you just reminded me when you did the time thing and you said 1212. Yeah. In a little WhatsApp group with my wife and my niece. So every time we see the time like that, which is quite often, we have to quickly text it. I like it. And in the WhatsApp group, I just looked up then and it was 12, 22 22, because I've got seconds on my clock as well. It happens a lot. Well, of course it does. It sure does. Go on. So, anyway, when we do that, and so you say it's like 0707, then you put a little gif on to do with seven and you have to sort of change every time. But the little gifs don't ever have sound. It's just a moving image. And I just wondered, why is there no sound on gifs? On all gifs. On all gifs. There's no gifs with sound. It's just, like soundless, which I find a bit strange. You think they would have sound? So I think we need to speak to a geek. Speak to a geek. That could be another feature, couldn't it? Speak to a geek week? To a geek week, yeah. All right. I mean, I suppose because they appear on your phone and. But you could still have sound in the background, couldn't you? Yeah. You would have thought that sound would add something to the. Okay, yeah, well, I guess I've never even thought about this before. I have. Once or twice actually, because sometimes you send one, you think, oh, that really should have sound. Yeah. I only thought it this morning because I was sending one. It was 707. So I sent an image of seven from Star Trek, which is. Which is geeky as well. It is very geeky. Speak to the geek. Okay. Yeah. Why don't gifts have any, what should we call it? Sound on sound? Yeah, I like it. Cheers, man. Thank you. Take care, Matt. Stay safe. Rich is in Colchester. Richie. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Why is it that my wife's snoring wakes me up, but my own snoring doesn't wake me up? Does it ever wake you up? Well, obviously my wife doesn't snore. The lady wouldn't. Yeah, wakes me up all the time. I was thinking about it at 02:00 this morning. I thought, I'm going to phone James. He'll know the answer. I don't know the answer to this. You can wake yourself up sometimes, snoring, but it's not. It's not as abrupt, is it? You just sort of half notice that you're snoring in your sleep and then you sort of stir. But. But your wife could be snoring less loudly than you are and it will be her that wakes you up, not you. Correct? Exactly. Right. Why would that be? Maybe she irritates me more than I could. Maybe it could be. I mean, I don't want to be brutal about it, but, you know, in the way that some people are fond of the aromas of their own flatulence, there could be a sort of. It could be a tonal note that is less jarring to you because it's. Can make the noise it's making in your head is different from the noise that you're hearing. Your wife. I'll find out for you. I'm probably not going to bring flatulence into it. Yeah, that went downhill quite quickly. Well, it was unnecessary. What's going on in the background? Oh, that's a delivery guy, a mobile caf? Oh, okay. It's all going on in Colchester. Richie. Oh, mate. All the time. Five minutes after twelve. Why does Richie's wife, theoretically, if she did snore, why would that wake Richie up? Whereas his own bison like trumpeting. I said I wasn't going to bring Fletchers his own bison like trumpeting. He can sleep through. Absolutely. Regardless, 25 after twelve is the time Dave's in Oxbridge. Dave, question or answer? Hi James. Got an answer for the wind speeds? Oh aye. The wind speed on Earth theoretically is limited to the rotation of the planet because it's movement of the atmosphere relative to the ground speed. So the fastest that the planet rotates is at the equator where it's effectively 1 minute of longitude is equivalent to one nautical mile. So you're looking at 900 nautical miles per hour. About a thousand miles an hour. Okay. But that's if you didn't have the resistance of the atmosphere that we've got. So you're looking at wind pushing against wind, which we would notice as human beings. But at the end of the day it's still matter, it's still materiel in the atmosphere. It's elements of oxygen and nitrogen and stuff. So theoretically on earth you're looking at about 900 nautical miles per hour as the theoretical maximum. I think the fastest they've recorded it is about 500 miles an hour in some big category hurricanes, around 500, but it could go up to about nine, you reckon, in laboratory conditions, as it were. Well, yeah, theoretically, because you're measuring it relative to the ground speed and the earth rotates at 900 nautical miles per hour at the equator. At the maximum, however, there are winds that move much, much faster. Solar winds, which they're theorizing about with interplanetary travel using solar scales. Sails. Sorry. To harness solar winds and move ships up to a million miles an hour. Shut up. No, serious, serious, seriously. Qualifications? I did meteorology when I was doing my navigation qualifications in the navy and part of that was that we had to work out true courses relative to wind speed because obviously the sea moves one direction, but if you're using sails, it's going to push you in a different direction. I'm going to level with you, Dave, you're going to get a round of applause, so don't worry about that. You kind of lost me about eight words in all. You got to remember is the earth is 360 degrees round and there's 60 minutes in each degree. Yeah. And at the equator. He's gone again. At the equator, 1 minute. 1 minute is a nautical mile. Oh, no idea. Absolutely no idea. So hang on a minute. In relation to Karen's question, is there a theoretical maximum? Yeah, 900 nautical miles per hour and the highest recorded that we're aware of is about 500 on earth. Yeah. You've given a chapter in verse, mate. And again, if someone's going to be around at 500 mph, they got to be pretty well protected. You wouldn't put your sheets out in that, would you? I might put something to generate some green energy. Would be good. That's not a bad idea. You covered a lot of ground there, Dave. Have another round of applause on me. Lovely stuff. Some debate over whether it's a Gif or a gif. What do you say? Gif. Everyone says gif, but the geeks are saying gif. What do you say, Adam? Gif. Three gifs. It's like gold frankincense. No, it doesn't work. Helen's in Bowness. Helen, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's about the gifs or gifs or whatever you want to call. Well, I say gifs, but I have a feeling that Gif might be the technically correct. Yeah, I do too, looking at it. Yeah. But I think it's just acceptable that we call it a gif. Why are they soundless? Well, so a Gif is actually. Even though it looks like a video, it's actually images. So it's just a video broken down into its individual frames. So. And because it's an image, obviously images don't have sound. Okay. Yeah. Like. So, like, when you click a page, you do. Exactly, exactly. So it looks like a video, but it's really not. So if you were to actually open up that file in. Well, I mean, I use Photoshop, I'm a designer. So if I was to open that up, it would actually be broken down into individual images, so it wouldn't have sound. So it probably goes back to the origins of it and the fact that it's quite an old technology that has somehow survived. Yeah, I suppose so. I mean, it was just. Because obviously it's a lot, because the way that we share gifs tends to be kind of online, like, socially, as we're talking about through messaging services. So the file size wants. Yes, exactly. It doesn't really need to be now because the stuff we're carrying around has such processing power. But when they started out then, it would have been keeping it. Keeping it down. And they used to be a lot more basic than they are now as well. That's there. You know, you wouldn't necessarily get them looking so much like a video as you do now, when frame rate is, you've actually got every single frame, so it does. Qualifications? Graphic designer. That'll do nicely. Lovely work, Helen. Thank you. Also very swiftly done as well. Matt got an answer there almost before he'd finished asking the question. 1234 is the time and mystery hour is well underway. World War. When does a war become a world war? We've done the wind. What is the universe expanding into? And we've done the gifts or the gifs? There's some dispute and I'm not getting involved. All right, I'm staying out of this one. Someone has said that the person who invented gift said that you pronounce the g, as in giraffe, in which case they become gifs. And somebody else has pointed out that it actually stands for graphic something or other, and therefore it would be a hard g. It stands for graphics interchange format. Does that sound plausible? That sounds like something you'd make up if you were trying to sound technical. It's a graphics interchange format. You don't want to be messing with the graphics interchange. You don't want to be messing with the graphics interchange format. So in which case it would be a hard g and they came in in the space. So actually, that's quite funny, because one person called doodle whale and another person called wimble wumble, such is the nature of Twitter handles. Doodle whale says the creator of the gif said that it is pronounced with a g, as in giraffe, ergo Gif. And Wimblewomble said GiF stands for graphics interchange format. So the g of GiF is hard, as in GiF, so never the twain shall meet. Nix in Congleton. Nick, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. What is the universe expanding into? That's a question. Sorry. Yeah, sorry. I'm such a child. Carry on. It creates space as it goes. It was infinitesimally small at the Big Bang 14 billion years ago. All the matter that was created then is still around now it's thermodynamics. It becomes less available to do work, but it creates space as it goes. It's like a balloon. If you put little spots on a balloon and blow it up, it's still in itself, if you see what I mean. I know you say, what's the potentiality outside the universe? But it actually creates a space. It's just the distances between the galaxies expands. So the universe is expanding into itself. There's nothing outside it. It's a brilliant answer. What are your qualifications? I've got an astronomy degree. Really? Yeah. A long time ago. Oh, yeah. But still. I mean, it's still. Everything's still in the same place. Well, actually, no, that's probably not true in the case. No. But I keep in touch with. And Brian Cox is a bit of a hero as well. I think he said something once, didn't he, like the universe has no responsibility to explain itself to the likes of us or something like that. No obligation. That was it. It was a lovely line, and you're obviously right, but I think that it was Kiri who asked the question that the concept. This is why I talked about it being almost a different language. The concept of something expanding into nothing is impossible to grasp. In a sense, it is, yeah. And there may be other. It may be a multiverse, there may be other universes that will never come in contact because they actually expand faster than the speed of light, which think, how can anything? Because that's the speed limit of the universe. But space itself can travel faster than speed of light. So the distance between the universes may be expanding beyond the speed of light. It all came from something called eternal inflation. A man called Alan Guth, in 1982 thought that where because of the flat, so called flatness of the universe, we can't see the curvature, so it appears infinite to us, which it may well be, if that makes sense. But it's still expanding. Yes, well, it sort of makes sense. I mean, it clearly makes sense, as in from your end of the telescope, if you pardon the pun. But I'm not going to lie to you, I'm struggling to keep up, Nick, but I'm supremely confident that you're correct. No, thanks, Jake. No, thank you. Have a round of applause. It's a good one this week. There's all sorts going on. So we've only got snoring. Got Richie snoring left in the world, Debs. World wars. So we've got time for some. Thank you, Nick. Jane's in woking. Jane, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on. So when I sleep on the right hand side, so my right hand side of my brain is on the pillow, I wake up and I remember my dreams and I feel all the feelings I felt during my dream. But when I sleep on the left hand side of my brain, I wake up and I don't remember anything and I don't feel anything from my sleep. Why is that? Come off it. It's true. Really? Yeah. How long have you been tracking this? Well, a few years now. And I actually now make sure I sleep on the left hand side of my brain, because a lot of the dreams from my right side, I don't really want to wake up and remember. So I consciously now only sleep on the left hand side. What, so you. What, do you have nightmares, then? No, no, just normally. Do you know what it is. It's normally about ex partners, which is weird. And then I. Naughty dream? No, just, like, I've spent, like, the night gone out for dinner or something in some weird, you know, situation, and I wake up, and I'm like, oh, I really missed that person. That was really nice. And I remember it was just a dream. Oh, and then. So you don't want those. Wake up all discombobulated. Yeah. So now I'm like, no, do you know what? I just. I don't sleep on my left hand side. I'm gonna sleep on my left, and I'll wake up, everything's fine. And you won't remember any dreams at all? No, I don't feel anything. I don't wake up with any dream memories. Nothing. But on the right side, just not just. No. I'm just going to consult my colleagues. Does this sound. Have you ever come across this before? No. Have you? No. I've never heard of it either. Well, I know. I mean, you could be a freak of nature. Well, it's been said before, but I thought maybe it had something to do with, I don't know, the one half of the brain. I know the brain's in two halves. Maybe it had something to do with the weight of one half being on top of the other, or, I don't know, some. Some very clever person who knows the brain, I'm sure, will hopefully call in and explain. You're more optimistic than I am. I think this is bonkers. I sleep on the right side. I dream. If I sleep on the left, I don't. And I don't want to remember my dreams, because they did. They're poignant. Yeah. Therefore, I now sleep on the left all the time. And so you're probably still dreaming. You just don't remember your dreams. Yeah. And I don't wake up with those sort of feelings of, you know, angst or lonely or, you know, longing or missing some. Do you know what I mean? I avoid them by doing that. Well, you're on. I mean, this is interesting, isn't it? I mean, what if. What if it's just you? Well, probably be a. Yeah, we'll have to sell you to science. Could be a science scientist. Someone's gonna answer my phone number and say, we need to test this. We need to test her. We need her brain. She could be the. Could be the missing link. You could be the solution to some deep human mystery. You could be like that film, that new Nicolas Cage film. When they get inside people's dreams, you could be the Nicolas Cage character that allows the technology to be developed. Anyway, it's 1242 Vaughn's in crowbra. Vaughan. Question or answer? Question, please, Jones, carry on. When someone donates an organ or I receive a donated organ, what happens to the DNA of that organ once it's in my body? Yeah, it's a good question. So if you take my liver. I wouldn't. But if you took my liver, I'd get a fresh one. If you could, you wouldn't want mine. And then they took a sample of tissue from the liver in you after it had been there. Would it have. Would it DNA match me or you exactly? If I was a. You said I was a murder victim. And all that was left, hypothetically speaking, was my liver. It's taken a turn. My imagination is running wildly. Okay, you're on. Yeah, I like it. I think we've done something similar in the past, but I can't remember it. So, DNA in organs. Does it change when you have an organ transplant? Blood as well? I suppose. If you have a blood transfusion, would the DNA and the blood be your DNA or the donor's DNA? And how long? Oh, crikey. Thank you, Vaughn. So, we've got Jane's dreams, and Vaughan's out of control, imaginative. What if Jane had a dream about Vaughan's liver? It's 1243. Paul's in Tiverton. Paul, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Hello, Paul. It's a question. Carry on. Why are there two tides a day when the earth only rotates once a day? In other words. In other words, the earth rotates once a day. So we have a 24 hours clock. But you'll have a high tide at, say, 12:00 midnight. And roughly 12:00 midday. A little bit past. Think of an egg timer. An egg timer? Yeah, an egg timer. I'm thinking of an egg timer. Okay, now rotate. Now rotate it once. 360 degrees, not 180. Have you done it? Sorry? I've rotated it 360 degrees. Yeah, slowly. Same way as it was before. So you can see. Yeah. But what did the sand do? Did it make one journey or did it make two journeys? I've no idea how this is relevant to the question. I can't. How dare you picture it? Well, here is the egg timer. It currently has all of the sand in the bottom of the egg timer. Okay. Right. And I'm going to start turning it, and it is going, so. And when I use the words bottom and top, I'm referring to where they were. Where the two chambers were at the beginning of this very complicated and sophisticated experiment. All right, so all the sand is in the bottom and the top is empty. I'm turning the egg timer. I'm slowly turning the egg timer. It's just reaching 90 degrees. It's just gone past. So now it's going bottom to top, bottom to top, bottom to top, bottom to top, bottom to top, bottom to top. I'm turning it round. It's reaching 03:00. It's getting to top to bottom, top to bottom, top to bottom, top to bottom, top to bottom, top. Do you see? Right, so there, it's gone in two different directions. There have been two tides, but what's that got to do with tides and gravity? I don't really. Well, because the world is turning as it goes one way, all the water rushes to the bottom, and then as it turns back round again, all the water rushes to the top again. Yeah. Can I give another way of explaining what my dilemma, because I've never. I've heard people try to explain this I've never understood. You never had to do it as well as I just did, have you? Can I explain? So, the way I see it is gravity. You understand, moon. If the moon is above, above you, then gravity, the gravitational pull of the earth is a bit less because you're being pulled, to some extent, to the moon. So I can understand that the water's a bit lighter, so it'll hump up below the moon because it'll be pulled slightly towards the moon. But what happens, in fact, is that it also humps up on the opposite side of the earth. Opposite the moon. Yeah. At the same time. And that is the fact. And that's what happens. But what I don't understand why. I think you're suggesting that my egg timer explanation has been suboptimal. I'm not making judgment about that. It just didn't. I didn't understand how that related to it. Yeah. It's. Because it's very complicated. Very complicated to understand. Yes. Egg time. Why are there two tides a day if the earth only rotates once? Is the question. Well, I will put it on the board, but if the answer doesn't involve egg timers, I'll eat my hat. Okay, it's 1246. Thank you, Paul. Ten to one is the time. And you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where Mister continues. So we still don't know the world war question, which I think is quite straightforward. I'm sure we've done it before. There's a, you know, round of applause waiting there. For the taking. When does a war become a world war? Why does Richie's snoring not wake him up, but his wife's snoring does? Why does Jane remember her dreams when she sleeps on one side of her head, but not when she sleeps on the other? DNA. If I gave Vaughan my kidneys and then I was brutally murdered and only my kidneys remained, whose DNA would be detected from those kidneys? Mine or Vaughan's? And why do we have two tides when the world only rotates once? Eck timers. Ash is in Northampton, which means the tide question, because Ash is. What exactly are you, Ash? Do you train captains? Yeah. So I'm an expert. Your phone line's gone. It got better again, then. So say all that again. No, no. Whoa, whoa. Phone line. This is what happens. I wonder if there's something weird going, because I met actually, in person last month in Northampton on my book tour. And now I've met him, the phone line's gone. Funny. Jane's ink. It's like, uh. It's like the other. Jane's dreams. Jane's ink. Maybe if I put my headphone on my other ear. Ash. Ash would. Would come through. Clearly, Jane's in Cambridge. Jane. Question or answer? It's a question. I think it's easier than some of the others. Why doesn't granulated sugar have a best before date? Why doesn't it? Yeah. I mean, icing sugar does. Everything else does. Granulated sugar doesn't. Caking. What? Caking. You can't. You can't. You can't. You can't. Granulated sugar. If it cakes a bit, you can just give it a crumble. Why hasn't there got a date on the packet? Because it doesn't ever go out of date. But. But lots of things that wouldn't go out of date have dates on them. For example, icing sugar. No, the caking also might get wet, and you can't use it. Are we sure that icing sugar does? It has a best before date on it. Yep. Okay. All right. Well, that's a bit. That's. That's a bit of a spanner in the words, isn't it? Because you could say, sugar doesn't go off. It does not spoil. Well, lots of things that, you know that they can spoil in different ways, can't they? So, water in a plastic bottle can spoil, because somehow some of the plastic particles get into the water, and it ends up tasting a bit plasticky, so. Or heat. And. But sugar and honey doesn't spoil because they found it in the pyramids, but. So sugar doesn't spoil. But then. Then icing sugar. Honey has a date on it, and syrup has a date on it because they come in. They come in plastic bottles or glass bottles, you see? But not paper. Paper doesn't transmit particles to what, you think that flour is going to spoil more than sugar? Yes, because, um, bacteria that sugar doesn't have. Correct. Really? Yep. Okay. What are you struggling with here, Jane? That's a great question. Why does sugar not have a best before that? Well, granulated sugar doesn't, but icing sugar does. That's the killer port, partner. No. You're welcome. I'll try and get. I've wasted so much time messing around. We probably won't get an answer now, but I've enjoyed it. I hope you have. Take care, Jane. Ash is in back to ash on the tides. So, the trainer of merchant Navy sea captains. Yes, and the rest of the merchant navy, as well. Phone line's still awful. I'm gonna have to fight. I'm gonna sack someone now. Seriously, you're fired. Go on. Hop it. You're out. Get him back. I like ash. And it's gonna be a great answer to the tide question, almost certainly involving egg timers. 1254. So we need an answer to Paul's question about tides. We need an answer to Jane's question about sugar. We need an answer to Vaughan's question about DNA, the other Jane's question about dreaming, Richie's question about snoring, and Deb's question about world wars. Adam's in boar, and. Oh, no. You're pushing ash off the board. Adam, question or answer? I feel guilty now. It's an answer. Carry on. It's not. Not your fault. Your phone line is good and his was not. Carry on. My answer might be wrong. Now you got me. You've got me worried. Go on. So, the tide. The moon pulls on the water surface, covering the earth closest to the moon, giving you a high tide on that side. It then pulls the earth very slightly also towards it, and it pulls less on the water on the far side of the earth, so you get an elongation. You get greater buildup of water on two sides. And as you rotate in one day, you get two high tides as you come, each of them, because. So, like, the egg timer. I had no idea what the egg timer was about, but yes. How can you say that? Because it's not. The egg timer is like, the water's fallen down and then come back. It's not like that at all points, there's water. Okay, fine. What? Your analogy doesn't work for me. I'm sorry. That's all right. Quite a lot of people have made that point, Adam. Some of them a bit more politely than you. I'm not going to lie. Sorry. Sorry. I told you. That's okay. I know what you scientists are like. Quite. You're quite dismissive of less educated people. Qualifications? Degree in physics. Degree in physics. But I actually learned that at GCSE. Yeah. All right, mate. Yeah. Cheers. Thanks, bye. Round of applause for Adam. Ian's in Torquay. Question or answer? It's an answer. So it's to do with sugar and based, basically, things like sugar doesn't go off, and also salt would be another one, because there's no water in it, so it's to do with basically osmotic pressure and basically a lack of water, so it won't microbial. But why is. Why does. Why is there in the best before date on her icing sugar but not on her granulated sugar? I think that's what you said. I think that's to do with caking. I made that up. Well, did you? Well, in that case, I didn't. I don't know if there is a date. Is there anything mixed into icing sugar, like a bit of corn flour or something? No, I haven't got any icing sugar on me, so I can't tell you. But granulated sugar is just sugar. Things like salt as well is exactly the same principle. It's to do with just not basically having any water. Life needs water to grow. Hang on a minute. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Alert the news desk. Esther in Bournemouth has got a best before date on her icing shook. She doesn't have a best before they on icing sugar. Okay. I can't. I can't give you an answer for that one. I just swore. Then what are your qualifications? Well, only that I'm a chocolatier and I work with sugar all the time. And cream and other things. Artisan chocolatier. Cool beans. You've got a speciality. Well, I suppose our truffles. Champagne truffles. What's the name of your company? You don't have to tell me. No, I'd be delighted to. It's called Lloyd and James chocolate in Torquay. Lloyd and James in Tokyo. Thank you, Ian. Take care. Thank you. Good luck with the chocolatier ink. Carl's in Derby. Carl, question. Round of applause. Round of applause. Round of applause. Carl, question or answer? Answer quickly. DNA doesn't change with a transplant. So. So if I gave Vaughan my kidneys and then he was brutally murdered and all that remained were his kidneys, the DNA test would be me. Yeah. You mean sufficient medication. The body still accepts it as a foreign object, so it doesn't change that you don't. DNA. That's where you don't need medication. Qualifications. Kidney transplant patient. And I am a mental health nurse, not a proper nurse, so I do read these things up. That's. That is a perfect. I mean, you're not going to get a better qualification. The qualifications. I've got. I've got a kidney transplant. Yeah. Is that a ray Liotta? Have you got a rallyota there? Yeah. Let's have a ray Liotta. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien. Can you. If you build it, they will come. They will. Thank you. Thank you. Have a round of applause as well while you're here. I wonder if that's ever happened in a sort of crime scenario. Well, you'd have to hope not. Um. Oh, Lord. Who am I going to give the board game to now on this? We. Any thoughts? Maybe get some answers now. Car. Got a Ray Liotta? I can't give a. I always feel that you. It's not fair to give out both the Ray Liotta and the. Or is it? I don't know. Vaughan was quite good, wasn't he, on the DNA, on the question. Dave. Dave on the wind. Dave on the wind was brilliant. Dave. Dave Windy Dave Windy Dave in Oxbridge, I think this week. That's it for me for another day. Do you know, quickly, because I do this spiel about the global player every day, but the number of people that have started listening to the whole show podcast later in the day, it's quite extraordinary. So it's obviously, you know, reaching parts that other content providers cannot reach the global player. So you can listen to all of our shows, mine, Sheila's, everybody's, the whole show, podcast whenever you want. So you could listen to that when one of the presenters you don't like is on. So I don't know who you don't like, but when they're on, you could listen to Sheila Fogarty. When I. If you don't like me, you could listen to Sheila Fogarty's show from yesterday, of course, and then get ready for today. So pause. You can rewind it. Live radio, you're always in control. Download it for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com.