Where was the first ever University?

BC three minutes after twelve is the time. Welcome to mystery, our weekly opportunity to achieve intellectual Congress. To get an answer to the question that has had you puzzled for the longest time, or possibly just for the last 10 seconds. Either way, this is the place that you need to be. If you've got a question of who or why or what, a where or when or wither even the occasional wherefore, then the number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 I've got phone lines free apologies if you were still on the line waiting to talk about Donald Trump, don't be surprised if we return to at least some of that territory tomorrow. But for now, it's all about mystery hour. It's what do I always say? If you're new to it, it's like the radio equivalent of those magazine and newspaper features where a reader writes in with a question and then waits weeks for an answer. Here you only wait minutes. Why do we do that? What is the origin of that? Where does that come from? What was the reason? Explain that to me. What's the true story? The history? Anything at all? It can be absolutely serious, quite academic. One of our most frequent contributors is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, although you can call him Hal. And equally, you can be asking a really silly question, like, do pigeons have regional accents? Okay. And anything goes. And if you hear someone ask a question to which you know the answer, ring in and provide it. And when I ask you what your qualifications are. So I sort of fell over a bit last week because I hadn't underestimated how many new people would be listening. I don't mean just tell me what qualifications you got. Well, I've got four GCSE's, three O levels and an a level. James, what is the reason why? You know what it is you've just told us. So you ring in to answer a question about wildlife, and the reason why you know the answer is because you've got a degree in veterinary science or because you watched David Attenborough last night. They're both equally valid. So when I say, what are your qualifications? To find out whether or not you can go definitive and get the much sought after mystery our round of applause, then. That's the point, isn't it? You've got to provide the answer. Okay? And you do that in all the usual ways. The qualifications will prove how you know what you know. If we believe your qualifications, if we buy it, you get the round of shut up, James, and get on with it. Susan Hendon. Sue. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, sue. Thank you, James. Universities. When was the very first university opened? Oh, do we need to define university or not? Or just the first place that called itself a university? I suppose so. Higher education for lots of people, rather than, you know, kings and things would have had tutors. I've got the word Wittenberg in my head, but I've no idea why. St Andrews is very old. I know St Andrews is very old, but I could just keep saying university names. None of them are going to be right. Oxford and Cambridge, also very old. 1880 something. Oh, it's much older than that. Some of the colleges there were set up by Tudors. What, um. Why do you want to know? I don't know. It just popped into my head. I like it. The very first university in the whole world. Yeah. Or just in Britain. Let's go for the whole world. Let's go for the whole. Yeah, you're right. Let's aim high. What's the first university in the whole world? And I'd probably be nice to know when it was started as well. If you know the answer to that, then I've just explained what you need to do. Mick, is in slough. Mick, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on. Mickey, when you jump into the swimming pool and you get water up your nose, or if you're in the bath and you get water up your nose, why do you get that intensive pain for about three or 4 seconds? I'm just thinking. You mean up your nose, that intensive pain, that kind of eye watering. Isn't it just because the nerve endings up your nose aren't really supposed to come into contact with liquid, they only ever come into contact with air. Well, that's a good question. That's what I'm worried about because. Sorry, that's what I'm asking. It really does hurt when you get water up your nose and you see people jump swimming pools with their fingers pinched on their nose to. Stop. Stop it. I think that's the reason. But you're not. I sense from your. From your tone, Mick, you're not going to accept my expertise as sufficient for providing you with an answer to this question. No, I'm not, James. I'm sorry. No, that's quite all right. I'm getting used to it now, after all these years. Mick, you're on. Why does it hurt so much when you get water up your nose? And where was the first university in the world? Seven minutes after twelve is the time. There you go. If you're new to this, you get it now. It's easy and rather fun. Kim's in Brixton. Kim, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Kim. Ok. Why is it that some people get really badly mosquito bites and others don't? I went on a hen night and maybe half the girls. I mean, one of the girls looked like she had chicken pox, she was so badly bitten. And my daughter gets bitten all the time and I'm lying. It doesn't happen. Why is that? I'm quite lucky with mosquitoes and misses. O'Brien is not. And our children also. One gets bitten a lot and the other one doesn't. I've always thought it has something to do with the sweetness of our blood. Me too. But they obviously don't like mine. I eat lots of sweet. Okay, you're on. Okay, find out why. Why do mosquitoes prefer some people to others? I like that question. Although I haven't checked the database for a while, I wouldn't be stunned or staggered if we hadn't done that before. What's the database? The database is the mystery hour archive over at LBC dot co dot UK. If you want to find out what's gone on before. Because the only circumstances in which we won't take your question, I should have said this sooner, is if it's repetitious. That is, if any of us can remember doing it in the relatively recent past. Or we've got an eye on the archive at the website and we can see that we've done it before, or if it's dull. I think these three are all right. But occasionally a question squeaks through that really shouldn't have done. People have taken their eye off the ball in the production studio and we get some right old rubbish coming through during mistry hour, I reserve the right to send you away with a flea in your ear if that happens. If it's a question about motoring, chances are it's dull. Or. Best way of explaining it is if somebody asks a question or you, you've got a question in your mind, but you can't really imagine anyone else being interested in the answer. That's probably dull too. William is in Yeovil. William, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question. Go on, then. Basically, you know, tvs are getting better and better. You've got full hd and they're obviously going to get better and better over time. Yeah. There's going to come a point at which the tv is going to outgrow what the human eye can actually take in. So there was no point in making it better. So I suppose, in short, what is the resolution of the human eye, if you see what I'm saying? I think I do. So the problem is, I don't know if resolution is the right word to describe the technological advances, because what you're really saying is, is there a point at which the eye won't be able to keep up? I mean, speed wise, there. Yes, there's going to be a point at which they're going to make tvs better and better quality, but there's going to come a point where there's no point going any further because the eye won't be able to take in that picture quality, if that makes sense. No, it does make sense, but it makes sense intuitively. I just don't know that either of us, and I don't mean to offend you by saying this, William, I don't know that either of us have got the technical nails to put the question in a slightly more intellectual. Not intellectual, just in a slightly more professional sounding way. That's why I had trouble with explosive. Resolution is the wrong word, but someone might be able to digest it. Yes. And what is it about the eye that would somehow. I mean, what would it be about the tv? Yeah. Okay, so you mean like HD and SD? If it reaches a point where. All right, it does have a higher definition than it did last time, but the human eye can't actually compute it, whatever it is. Okay, when will tvs outstrip eyes? I love that question. I really hope it works, William. Thank you. Ten after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need if you've got a question, or if you can answer any of these questions. When and where was the world's oldest university founded? Why does getting water up your nose hurt so much? Why do mosquitoes prefer some humans so much more than others, if indeed they do? Some early chatter on that question suggests it might be more complicated than it originally appeared. And tvs in the human eye, is there a point looming at which the human eye will be saturated by technology? It doesn't matter what you do to the telly now it's reached the point where the clarity or the dimensions of viewing have reached the maximum that the human eye can cope with. I really, really hope someone can answer that question. Connor is in Walton on Thames. Connor, question or answer? Hello, James. Hello, Connor. I've got a question and, well, yeah, my question is, why do nursery rhymes always end in tragedies. Do they all end in tragedies? With a vast majority, yeah, they do. What do you think, Humpty Dumpty? It's kind of sad how he ended up Jack and Jill. Didn't go too well. Didn't he get better? It started with a tragedy. He fell down the hill and broke his crown. But didn't he wrap it in vinegar and brown paper? And he was all right by the end? Well, unless he was cooked, I imagine his insides were pretty all over the place. I don't know if it ends in tragedy. Humpty Dumpty was. Was based on a cannon that was on a castle wall that did fall off and smashed to smithereens. And no one could put it back together again or something like that. What else? Give me some. I don't know if they do all end in tragedy. Hmm. Little Miss Moffat sat on a tuffet eating her curds. And way down came a spider and sat down beside her and frying Miss Muffet away. It might be a tragedy for Miss Muffet. Spider as well, but the spider's laughing. Spider's got a big bowl away. There's no tragedy for the spider. Uh, yeah, it's. It's a bit spider. What happens to itsy bitsy spider? Climbed a water spout, down came the rain and washed poor itzy out. He doesn't mean he drowned. He just got washed out of a drain pipe. Are these tragedies? Well, yes, sir. Yes, sir. Three bags full, sir. Blah blah blah, sheet. Have you any wall? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Three backs for one for my master, one for my dane one for the little boy who lived down the lane what's not tonight? Everyone's got wool now. I don't think you thought this through, Connor. I would. I would say more than most. Right, well, let's work it out. Barbecue black sheep. Win. Okay. Little Miss Muffet. Win for the spider. Not so good for Miss Muffet. No, that's not a win for the spider. So win for the spider. He's got a bowl of cards away. That's where I'm called. You got it. You got to take into account the protagonist, not the spider. Jack and Jill began with a tragedy, ended with it with a touching bedside medical scene. I would say that's you taking it. And Humpty Dumpty, I've told you, has a historical context. I just don't. I mean, I don't think there is a. Even if there's, you know, even if you've got a preponderance of tragedy on your side, which, frankly, I dispute, even if it did turn out to be 60 40 in your favor, would that be enough to actually merit a question which would have an answer? Why are they all tragedies, cautionary tales? I think the question is worth. The question is worth why are nursery rhymes which are intended for children? Yes. Why are they not the happy endings we would expect of stories for children? I think I can answer that. Well, first of all, it's a relatively modern notion that children's stories should have happy endings. And in fact, the most successful of children's authors are the ones that really provide the horror. The Roald Dahles and the JK Rowlings don't pull back from absolute misery and horror in their stories. But I think the answer to your question, if I accept it, which, frankly, is still under consideration, if I accept your question, the answer would be that they're often designed as cautionary tales. They're often designed to encourage behaviors. So don't run down a hill really fast with a pail of water. Otherwise you might fall over and break your crown. You see? Don't sit on a wall if you're. If you're an enormous egg. Yeah. I'm not sure that the kids are learning too much from that one. Don't run down. I'll tell you a point, James. Yeah. And don't. Don't eat under a tree full of spiders. I'd like to know, however, if there is a duck, I don't know who will provide you with it, but I'll put it on the board. They don't, but we'll pretend that they do. Why are so many nursery rhymes unhappy? 1215 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. This is LB. LBC, 90 minutes after twelve is the time the world's first university. When and where? Why does getting water up your nose hurt so much? Why do mosquitoes cause much more pain to some than to others? At what point does the television reach the maximum that the human eye can cope with? And why do so many nursery rhymes involve tragedy? I'm going to let that stand because the more I think it, the more I see that actually a lot of them are. What about ring a ring of roses? Was about the plague, wasn't it? I guess before we could all read and write, we just sort of recorded things by using little ditties and rhymes and songs and. Nursery rhymes would have been one of the easiest ways to do that. But I'm thinking out loud I want a definitive answer from someone who knows Austin's in. Where? Austin? Question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Go on, then. How long did giant house spiders live here? Why do you ask? Because I'm being plagued by them at the moment. Where I live in Hertfordshire. We're right on the river. What is a giant house spider? Is that a specific species, giant house spider? I believe so, yes. It is. Like your average house spider, but twice the size. We just seem to have so many of them in our house, and it doesn't matter how many I killed. Well, it doesn't matter how long they live for then, either, does it? If they're breeding. Well, see, that's another thing. I mean, how long does it take for them to die? And also, you know, do they breed at this time of year? And if so, how long does it take from a baby house spider to a child? Well, I'll see. I'll try and get you the lifespan of a giant house spider, but I don't know that it's going to help you deal with them at all. Has anybody. Has anybody told you about conkers? I've tried so many different things, James. I've even resorted to once I've killed one. Leaving a part of the spider in the room. Like a warning to the others. Exactly. On the theory that if you walked into a room and there was a human leg on the floor, you'd run a mile. I can't fault your logic, Austin. I think it's your understanding of the spider's brain that might need a little work. Which bit of the spider did you leave on the floor? Because, well, it's kind of squash the whole corpse. A spider corps is a warning to the others that he who enters here. All right, I'll try and get you the lifespan, but again, in terms of getting rid of them, does the. Does the conkers not work? I was under the impression the conkers worked. No, don't fool yourself, Joe. So. Well, maybe it's just a sheer scale I've got. How long have you listened to the program, Austin? Probably about three years. Do you remember when I had chickens? It's about three. Do you remember when I had chickens at all? Yeah, it is about three years ago. Do you want to know a really, really embarrassing secret? Go on. I've got a metal bin behind the shed at the back of the garden where I used to keep the chicken food, and I only check it about twice a year. It's still got a little bit of chicken food. Detritus in the bottom. It's a metal bin, so no rats can get into it. Last time I checked, I had like a spider colony in there. Oh, and some of them. Some of them are the size of your fist. It sounds similar to my ones. There you go. So we'll find out. The worst case scenario is I'll do a little experiment for you during the Christmas holidays. But in the meantime, I don't know. How long does a giant spider live for? Let's find out for Austin. He's under siege. 1223 is the time. Martin is in Midhurst. Martin, question or answer? I have a question for you, Mister James. Obi on LBC. Bring it on. I was listening to the radio last week. A song. Why you wasn't on, of course, cloud nine. Yes, it was rhyming. And why the term cloud nine? Cloud 5810. I know this. Cloud nine. I know this. There is some dispute. I'm going to get a round of applause. Mark, get ready, please. There's some dispute over where it began. Like cloud atlases are actually a thing, you know, when you different types of cloud get described. The highest cloud is the 9th, it's called. I'll get this. No, it's either nimbo stratus or cumulus. Excuse me a second. Cumulus. Shush. Cumulus. Stop it. It's either nimbostratus or cumulonimbus. I can never remember which way around it is. And that is the 9th cloud in the kind of stratosphere of clouds. The hierarchy of clouds. I'll go. The highest cloud is the highest stroke. Happiest you can be. Well done. Round of applause. Thank you very much. Bit thin on the ground lately. I'm sort of engaging in a little bit of ego management during mystery hour, but I do prefer it when I fill my pockets. Thank you very much. Martin. 24 minutes after twelve is the time Emma is in Chertsey. Emma, question or answer? Answer. The oldest university in the world is Bologna in Italy. Who is it? Not Padua? No. How do you know? What are your qualifications? Well, I knew you were going to ask me these kind of questions. Try and get me to look daft. More daft than I am. About 20 years ago at university, I did a course on the history of universities and I remember it being bologna, but I can't remember why. It's not Padua, but I know it's bologna. And about 100 years later was Oxford, the first one in this country. Do you remember when it was bologna? The end of the 11th century. And was it set up by aristocrats or the Medicis or someone like that. Isn't it too early for Medici's study? Law. I know that much. Okay. The thing is, I think you're right, but you've made a very poor show of enforcing your credentials. Emma, I've got a degree in medieval history and everything. I just can't remember the precise date. You're going all in on bologna. Absolutely certainly. I'm definitely, absolutely sure it's bologna because my dad's italian as well, so I remember stuff like that. Yeah, right. There you go. When you did your degree, I did an a level in medieval history. Does your degree ever come in useful? Yeah, I work in a museum. There you go. I work on a radio station. Let's call for an understanding of Charlemagne and the carolingian decline. Round of applause for. Round of applause for Emma too. Thank you. On tomorrow's show, I will be doing the Merovingians and the Carolingian, so you better bring in Emma, otherwise it's going to be a very lonely experience. It'll be you and me then. 26 minutes after twelve, Walid is in Coventry. Walid, question or answer? Answer, James. And it's going to refute Emma's. Oh, no. Bring her back. Bring Emma back. We've got stewards inquiry. Waleed, what do you want to say? I was going on so well with Emma as well. What do you want? What is it? Right. I think Bologna is the oldest in Europe, but the oldest in the world is el Karaoine in Morocco. In Fez. God, we've gone eurocentric, haven't we? I can qualify that, though, because I'm being a Muslim. I'm quite interested in islamic history now. You know the graduation caps has that bit of string on it. Yeah. It's like a fez. Like a fez, yeah. And the connotation of that is because al Khair was an institution for islamic, well, islamic institution of knowledge. And that bit of string actually comes from the bookmark in the Quran. So when you have the whenever copy of the Quran, it has a bookmark which is a string, which is a conversation. Shut the front door. Shut the front door. Whereabouts in Morocco was it? Fez? Which is. I think that has that conversation. What was the thing you said? You said the name of the university, the Arabic is Alcaru. That's all right, I can cope with that. And do we know when it was founded roughly? Sorry, I know you've said all this, but I was just a goggle at your knowledge. I think it was the 800s or the think bologna was not far away, but we're talking. Emma was back on 1100. Emma, I think you might have gone a little bit eurocentric. Oh, why? What do you. What was he? Well, he believed. Well, he's got one. Well, he's got one in fez from the 9th century really was a proper university. What poor university. Yeah. Today they still serve, they still grant in degrees today. So I think that's the criteria that we're trying to hit, isn't it? I don't know about that. Certainly when I went to university that wasn't mentioned. No. Well, probably because we were still pursuing quite eurocentric curricula. What, you saying that I'm that old? No, let's not go down that road. I'm getting, I'm getting a lot on Bologna being the oldest in Europe, which probably in our youth, we just somehow filed away in our heads as oldest rather than qualified by in Europe. Fair enough. And I shall bow to Waleed. Okay, I'm going to give. You can keep your round of applause, Emma, but I need a new one, please, mark for Walid. Oh, hang on. What are your qualifications? Practically muslim, obviously. People ask what would the muslim world given to the western world? And that's one of them. A very useful thing to study, actually, given that the narrative abroad at the moment is the polar opposite of usefulness. 859 AD, I'm told, was the year that just, just eluded you. And that definitely trumps bologna. 29 minutes after twelve is the time. Questions that still need answers. That was lovely. Why does your nose hurt so much when you get water up it? Why do mosquitoes hurt mosquitoes in humans? Why doesn't everybody get equal treatment? At what point will the human eye kind of cease to keep up with tvs? How close are we to a tv that is as clear as can be? Nursery rhymes and tragedies and the lifespan of a giant spider. It's coming up to 12:30 you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where I can tell you now we've got massive consensus on the question of that university, so we've definitely gone definitive on that one. If you want to get involved, if you can answer any of the questions I've just reminded you of, the number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And the. I don't take texts and tweets really, during mystery hour, but if you want to send me some compliments and some love, you can tweet at Mister Jamesob you don't have to even wait while I'm on air. You can do it all the time. It is now 12:30 and Simon Conway is here with the headlines. Donald Trump will go to the White House later to meet President Ryan on LBC. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve is the time. Questions that still need answers involve mosquitoes, noses, televisions, the human eye, nursery rhymes and spiders. You can fill in your own gaps in a moment. Steve is in Maidstone. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Good afternoon. Carry on, Steve. Thank you. Who has the final say on the colour and the design of a goalkeeper's kit? Liverpool is always red and Chelsea's blue and England's white and so on and so forth. But in the past there's been quite a few goalkeepers that I've seen that you would never choose as a design. Now, is it the manufacturer or is it the goalkeeper? And then if it's the goalkeeper, is it the first choice keeper and then the second and third choice keeper after? Just wear what they're told to wear. Would it not just be whoever's done the whole kit? I mean, because you say red, white and whatever, but the strip changes every season these days. Oh, yeah, yeah. Variations on. On fundamental colors. But they've got to be designed by someone and then they. That designer that just gets to throw in a random keepers jersey as well. But is it. Is it random, though? This is the thing, because if you. You are just that one position in that one. I mean, I don't know whether the goalkeeper's got some kind of a say in it. Do they influence the design? I don't. I mean, I love the question. I love the question. It can't. There's going to have to be something taken into account, like every other colour. The reason why they end up with some weird ones is because they have to be distinguishable from every other outfield strip in the league, don't they? I think there was one a few years, like it was the Mexico one. It was all like fluorescent yellow and green and pink and whatever else, and I just wondered if the keepers had some kind of influence on the. Very, very much doubt it. But I'll put the question out there. I like the question. As a former goalkeeper, I like that question. But I'd be very surprised if the goalie gets asked for his thoughts on what colour is this shirt's gonna be. Well, you might not like purple and then maybe they were all yellow when I was a kid. Yellow or green? Yeah, that's it. Yeah. I was a goalkeeper as a kid as well. I guess they had to change that because outfield players started wearing similar. I mean, you couldn't have a yellow goalie if you're playing Norwich. Yeah, that's right. And then there was, there was. The reason why they had long sleeves was because if an arm goes into the ball, like years ago, they would see the sleeve. So they knew that it wasn't a handball from a player, stuff like that as well. Oh, I like that history of goalkeeping strips. Who'd have known it could keep us engaged for so long? And we haven't finished yet. We want to find out, does the goalie have any say? Because sometimes they wear some right old weird stuff. Seriously, kind of, you know. Do you know since all the scandals broke about 1970s celebrities, you have to rewrite your points of reference when it comes to describing horrible leisure wear and stuff like that. You can imagine who I was about to mention there before my sort of lizard brain kicked in and went, no, no, no, no. 1236 is the time Alex is in Birmingham. Question or answer, Alex? Answer James, please. Yes, go on. So it's for the eyes and the tvs. Oh, yeah, yeah. So there is a point where your eyes won't keep up and to an extent it's already happened. So with the new kind of 4k tvs that you can get now, if you were to, for example, go into a local shop and buy a 50 inch 4k tv, unless you're sat sort of less than around about 2 meters from the screen, the difference from 1080p HD to 4K HD isn't going to be perceptible. So it's all to do with how big the screen you buy is and how close you sit to it. Is there a point? Go on. No, I was going to say, obviously now we're getting things like VR headsets where the screen are a couple of inches away from your eyes. Yes. Then. Then there becomes a need for higher resolutions. But with your average tv, you know, given, you know, the size of your average person's living room and whatnot, there will come a point. And for a lot of people, it's probably already come because they're only going to have a tv that's so big and they're only going to be able to sit so far. So, you know. So I think you've done it. I thought, for me, what are your qualifications? I worked in a the country's leading electrical retailer for six years. And I'm now also an animator. We do stuff the tv side, I feel, in sort of resolutions and. Oh, brilliant. Yeah, I'll do. Round of applause for Craig, please. I mean, Alex. I mean, Alex, why'd you say, why is the country's leading electrical retailer these days? It's still Curry's. It would still be after the demise of Comet. I mean, you know, you get, you know, you get sort of supermarkets that are trying to sort of must win, but it's all online now as well. Yeah. I mean, there'll still always be a, you know, a place for people wanting to go and see tvs in the flesh, show and things like that. So things like that. I think there'll always be, you know, a curry's or something. I hope so. We talk a lot on the program about the demise of high streets and shopping and like you, I sort of cling to the notion that they can't always completely disappear, but I'm not necessarily confident. Thank you. I digress and furiously. Did we give Alex his round of applause? Give him another one for being such a top lad. Well done. Craig's in Farnborough. Craig, question or answer? Answer. James, bring it on. Tragedies and children's tales. Tragedy. Sorry, carry on. Yes. Tragedies and nursery rhymes. Children's rhymes. What have you got? Yeah, it's more children's literature in general. It used to be a lot worse than what it is now, but the idea behind it is to introduce children to the tragedies of the world and keep it at a distance, so when they, as they're younger, they're still sort of happy with life, but then they know about the tragedy, but it's at a safe distance and then they can take on board the tragedies of the world as they grow older and learn how to manage it better. So, I mean, I use the phrase cautionary tales, which is part of it, and Connor, who asked the question, probably should have broadened it beyond nursery rhymes right through into the brothers grim, Hans Christian Anderson, all that sort of thing. Yeah, yeah. Don't talk to strangers, you know. I mean, these are messages that have driven home with the most brutal of intent, aren't they? Yeah, absolutely. Don't go into gingerbread houses. That certainly works on me. I've never been into a gingerbread house. Have you? Well, I'd like to one day. What are your qualifications? I learned that in my psychotherapy training and they use that concept a lot in play therapy where they let the child sort of play and you know, a lot of people get worried about the things kids are drawing, but then in therapy, a lot of people let the kids sort of get on with it and express it and keep the tragedy at a distance. And it's the same concept there as in nursery rhymes and children's literature. Brilliant answer. Round of applause for Craig. 20 minutes to one is the time. Kate's in Leeds. Kate, question or answer? Hi, James, I've got a question for you. Carry on, Kate. So, I just wanted to know why, even though during our life we get loads of different injections, it's only the BCG mark that's on the top of our arms. Why is that the only one that leaves a mark? Yeah, because we get loads of different ones. You know, when you go on holiday or, you know, different immunisations, but it's only that BCG mark. Yeah. Okay. I'm not going to lie to you, Kate. It's not the most exciting question we've ever had on the program. Are you troubled by your own mark? Is that why you're asking? Well, I've got two younger brothers who came to visit me a couple of weeks ago and they were asking me about it. Oh, we'll get you an answer then. When we had it at boarding school, it was considered hilarious to try and punch each other on the. On the BCG scar immediately after it had been administered. But don't tell. You don't tell your little brothers about that. Yeah. Why is the BCG mark? Is it still a thing? I mean, will younger listeners recognize it? Tuberculosis. That. It's for tb? Yeah. I mean, my two younger brothers are seven and nine and they've got them, so. Okay, cool. Let's get it. Find out. And then you can pretend that you knew you all along next time you see them. Well, I get them to listen to mystery hour. So do you, on the podcast? Yeah. What are they? What are their names? James and Ollie. Hey, James. Hey, Ollie. You've got a quality sister there. You keep following her advice on what you should be listening to on your podcasts, Kate. Thank you. I will do my best to get you an answer. In return for you doing so much marketing on my behalf. 1242 is the time. Stuart is in Hemel Hempstead. Stuart, question or answer? I think I've got an answer, mate. You think you have? Yeah, I'm pretty sure. All right. Okay. For the mozzie one. Yeah. Okay. The reason that some people get a bit more and is because of pheromones, because of what you sit on your body? Yeah, yeah. Is the mosquitoes are more attracted to. Basically, the more pheromones you give off, the more they're attracted to you. Therefore the more they bite you. Are you sure? What are your qualifications? Qualifications? Where I used to manage an outdoor store, we used to sell mosquito spray. So I got the people who supplied it to come in and train me and the staff and white on how it works. Really? Yeah. That's pretty powerful, because I was persuaded by the argument that actually we all get bitten pretty much the same. It's just that some of us come out in bigger hives than others. I mean, it could be. I mean, the way they explained it to me was that basically when you put the mosquito spray on, you're creating a mask over your pheromone, so they're just going to go for the next target, which is exuding more furmos. You put me on the spot a bit here, Stuart. You're the boss. That's very kind of you to say so. It's quite a good way to make sure you get a round of applause as well. Thanks very much. BCG marks, goalkeepers. The lifespan of a spider. Done the nursery rhymes. Done the human eye. I think we've done the mosquitoes. I'll put it in square brackets. Why does our nose hurt so much when we get water up it? Who chooses a goalkeeper's kit? The goalies have any say? A few of you are pointing out that Peter check seemed to be usually during his Chelsea days, at least wearing similar coloured shirts. So maybe they do get a say. And why is BCG the only injection to leave a scar? Mike's in Twickenham. Mike, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Mike. Giant house spiders. Yes. The expected lifespan depends whether they're male or female. Females live an awful lot longer than males, reason being that once they reach maturity, the male house spider and most spiders is only interested in mating and doesn't get to shed its skin again. Oh, is that right? So they all only live for a few months, but the females, which are far less likely to see because they'll generally be tucked away somewhere under your floorboards, can live for up to six years. And do they have multiple partners during that period? They will do, yes. So during that six years, your poor man who's trying to get rid of them from his house, she could be knocking out baby spiders like it's going out of fashion. If she's lucky. Yeah. Why lucky? Well, she's hoping that the males, once you find her, and that your previous caller isn't murdering them. Yes, of course there is that possibility. But if he wants to get rid of the spiders, he needs to find the mothers. Yeah. Although I would suggest leaving them, really. They're not dangerous. In fact, we've got no dangerous UK spiders and probably what they're eating, which is any sorts of little crawling things around your house, doing a good service. I like it. Unless you're terrified of spiders, I suppose. What are your qualifications? I've been keeping tarantulas for 20 years and I give talks on UK spiders and direct naphobia. I think, as qualifications go. Does that get. I think that gets a raid, doesn't it? Does that get a Ray Liotta moment? I think. Yeah, I think so. I think you're right. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Well played, Mike. Yeah. Spider question. Get a tarantula man in. Let's build it. They will come. Territory. 1245 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Jay Louise Knight is here now with your travel news. Thank you, James. Good afternoon. While in Croydon, BC, 1250 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we find ourselves contemplating questions at the moment about the BCG jab and goalkeepers spiders. We've done mosquitoes, I think might come back. And I also want to know why it hurts so much when you get water up your nose. But we've got questions. We've got room for a couple more questions. If you can answer any of those. Get through now. You will get through. Come on, jump to it. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Pearl is in Dagenham. Pearl. Question or answer? Question or answer? Pearl. What I'd like to know is why certain music that I listen to and I'll get goosebumps. Do you? Yes, I do as well. Do ya? Yeah. What gets you? It's more operatic music and it's. It's just certain. I can listen to lots of music, but just one certain song can come on and I'll get goosebumps. A certain passage. And you'll get it every time, or most times, it's a passage of music that just affects you. Just the classical music. And I can just listen to that and I get goosebumps all over my body. And is there a proustian association with it? Is it reminds you of, I don't know, the best kiss you ever had? Or something like that. Because that music. Sorry, that was a bit of an inappropriate question. Let me rephrase that. The best biscuit you ever had. But it's just. And I listen intently because I feel that I'm in the song. That's how I feel. Yeah, you're right. You understand what I mean, James? No, I do. Of course. I don't know what goosebumps are. I know what music is. I know I can. I can knit the two together and understand what you mean, Paul. I was a bit. You put me on my back foot when you said operatic. I was about to start talking about Mike and the mechanics. No, it's always something that's a slow, very slow song, but deep. And then I can get goosebumps, start from the top and go through my body. And then I can hear another song and no, nothing. Nothing going on. You know what I mean? I know exactly what you mean. Well, yeah. What triggers it? A physical reaction to a sonic experience, to music? What is the. Yeah, why. Why does it happen at certain times? Because it won't happen to everybody, otherwise you wouldn't be asking a question. You go, why does everybody get the goosebumps when the right same piece of music comes on? Is it personal? Is it. Is it biological? Is it chemical? Pearl, that is a lovely question. I wish you'd gone a little sooner. So come on. Hey, Pearl. I didn't even do the Pearl as a singer. Joke. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. We won't get an answer to Pearl's question. Why does she get goosebumps when she hears certain passages of music? Tim is in Birmingham. Question or answer, Tim. Question and challenge and answer. You got. Whoa. Have you cleared that with the producer? No, I didn't. Sorry, mate. So, very strict rules. Very strict rules for stewards inquiries. What's your question? What's your question? He's gone out. He just drove out his own. I could actually hear it happening. Raj. That's why we don't. Anyway, Raj is in Helmel Hempstead. Raj, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's the BCG vaccine. Yes. Why is it the only one that leaves a scar? Such a visible scar? Okay. Some vaccines are dead bacteria or viruses, whereas some vaccines are live organisms, like bacteria. So what you do is you make it less potent. So it's called live attenuated vaccine. That's bCG. So it's got live bacteria, but it doesn't cause the illness because you attenuated. And the PCG stands for bacillus, calmut urine. So it's a specific strain of the bacteria. Has it got nothing to do with being interdermal? Intradermal, where the actual. So most vaccines are given? Intramuscular BcG is given under the skin. That's why you have the reaction under the skin which then leads to scar tissue. And what are your qualifications? I'm a doctor. That'll do. Why are you laughing? No, it's got an advantage. The scar has an advantage. Like countries like in India, the scar. You can check whether people are vaccinated because the scar is visible. That's why it's always given on the same side, same arm, under the skin. So you can. You can check if the vaccination is done. So it does have an advantage. I know some people don't like the scar, but actually it does have an advantage, even though it's not intended. You're on. And I mean, it's a perfect qualification of all. Lovely answer. A round of applause for Raj. Is it James and Oliver that are getting that answer as well? I trust that satisfactory. James and Oliver, if you're listening on the podcast, your sister Kate has secured you the knowledge that you need. Danny is in Ashford. Danny, question or answer? I have a question, James. Go on then. It's not one of my own, actually. I nicked this off of facebook. One of my friends asked it yesterday. Yeah, go on then. That's not original. If you was unfortunate enough to lose both your legs in an accident or something, and you went to get new artificial legs fitted, could you make yourself a little bit taller? Yeah. Like if you previously five foot four, you fancied being a five foot twelve? Well, you could. I mean, that would be quite a leap, wouldn't it? But you could. You know how I know? Because do you remember when. Crikey. It's amazing our reputation's changed, isn't it? Over the course of time, I've forgotten the name of the South African. Oscar pious. Do you remember when he went Pistorius? Do you remember when he lost? Yeah. So. No, when he lost the Olympics, the Paralympics, when he got beaten by a fella. And the accusation was that the fellow who beat him had got really extra long legs, much longer than he'd been using in practice. Ah, right, okay, so it's a yes then? That'll do, won't it? Brilliant. Thank you. No, you're very welcome. Round of applause for me. Michael's in Victoria. Michael, question or answer? I've got an answer. James. Carry on. Michael. It's in relation to the music question that the previous caller to call. Why does Pearl get goosebumps? I hope I can use this word for this time of the day, but it's actually what's called a skin orgasm. No, you're making stuff up now. What, you just prank calling me now? I wish I was really. The posh term is free, son. Why didn't you say that then, instead of talking about skin orgasms, you freak? Because I didn't want to be a show off too early. All right, then, go on. So it's. I read it in a new neurological book. Easy for you to say. Yeah. It's a french term that means aesthetic chills. And it's basically also they. It was. There was also a point in there that tells you about blood rushing around away from. Towards your brain, which leaves your body, which also chills you and calls you down, which will cause goosebumps. Wow. Wow. Do we know why that. I can't quite remember. Something to do with pleasure centers. Won't it be it just. Just pushes buttons the same way. I suppose we can all eat something the same and we'll all react to it differently, won't we? You might like the taste of something. Personally, I can't stand marzipan. Michael, where do you stand on marzipan? Marzipan. I don't. Don't particularly mind, but we come around to Christmas, whereas I'll peel it off my fruitcake, actually, before I eat it. So there you go. I mean. And that play means that if, for example, Pearl heard Rachmaninoff's piano concerto number two, she might have. I can't. She sounded like a very respectable lady. She might have a friss on. I'm not going to accuse her of having so skin orgasms every time Rachmaninoff's on the radio. What are your qualifications? You told us you read a new book. I got. I read a book from the. I was given a book, actually. I picked up. I'm a cab driver. I picked up a lady from the neurological hospital in Queen Square and I just happened to read the book and came across. Then it stuck in my mind. Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant. And a round of applause for Michael. And he's absolutely right. I just broke the golden rule of mystery hour and googled skin orgasms. I might leave that on Steve Allen's search history. It's coming up to 1259. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Last word on this to Paul Inslau. Keep it quick, Paul. James got an answer regarding the goalkeepers. Yep, the goalkeeper. In fact, any of the outfield players don't get a choice. It's actually already made up for them. Whoever the kit goes to, it just goes to regardless of colour. But there's a fascinating history to goalkeeper shirt. It really is. It just used to be a plain colour, yellow or green. Then a little company in the Midlands started designing kits, more flamboyant kits in the seventies and the colors started to change. But then when the big boys got involved, the large manufacturers, they did a study on colors and they noticed that fluorescent colors people are drawn to. So they decided to start introducing fluorescent colors. Mate, you're a genius, but we're out of time. What are your qualifications? Qualified. Are you really? I am indeed. Fantastic. And what is surely that mexican keeper, which I'm about to tweet a picture of. I'm pretty sure he designed that himself. It's horrible. Well, who knows? I've got to go. Sheila Fogarty's just on that arched eyebrow. Look at the clock. Paul. Apologies. Round of applause for Paul. The eyebrow is arched. Sheila is in the building. I'll be back tomorrow morning from ten. I did not, you big liar. Thank you, James. Now, what is it about opposition parties in Europe and America that's leaving voters quite so cold? Hillary couldn't reach her heartland voters. What did labor need to do to be listened to again by their traditional working voters? An american woman.