Why do we call them 'Cabinet' ministers?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio station. And you probably won't be running any risk. For those of you a little frightened of the prospect of being asked to define exactly what you mean by the words that you employ, because mystery rarely lends itself to that sort of confusion. The way it works is thus you have a question. Somewhere in the back of your brain, bubbling away. Might be something the kids have asked you, because they are still laboring under the illusion that you are the font of all knowledge. Mine aren't. I really miss those days. Oh, well. Or it might be something that's popped up at work, or as you were making your way up and down the country. As a rule, I am rather dismissive of motoring questions, but occasionally, when I'm dismissive of things, they come back to bite me on the backside by being really, really interesting. So take all of my rules with a pinch of salt, but only a tiny pinch. I don't want to encourage motoring questions, I do want to encourage new questions. So if you want to head over to LBC dot co dot UK, you can see the archive in which are listed many of the questions that we've dealt with in the past. Otherwise we'll rely upon my memory, which is somewhat swiss cheese, I have to concede, and then you'll hear how it works. Someone rings in with a question, you ring in with an answer if you know what the answer is. We're not allowed to look stuff up. It is a fairly straightforward celebration of knowledge, this part of the program. You have a very straightforward interplay, really. I will ask you how you know what you know by saying, what are your qualifications? And your response was, I saw it on telly last week, or, I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, both of which are frequent and perfectly valid responses to. To the questions that we have. Should we just crack on our phones? Gone nuts? So Beth and Jakob will sort, forgive me, chaff, but the wheat from the chaff and anyone who's not familiar with the feature can just suck it and see. Yeah. Shall we or not? Six minutes after twelve is a time. Blake's in. Hello, Blake. Hi, James. Question or answer? It's a question. Go on. Recently, my twin sisters got a rabbit each. We found out they were female. And this is kind of specific to pets, but can anyone prove that animals, or, as I said, pets specifically, are homosexual. What would prove proof involved, do you think? A way of maybe x raying the brain to see if there's an attraction to the same gender? Yeah. The problem with that is, I mean, in some cases, I suspect Blake. It'd be quite hard to find the brain. Zack's in St. Paul in America. Zach, what would you like to say? Yeah, James. So you know when you've got your remote control and the batteries are going dead. Yeah. And you mash the buttons harder and harder to see, you phone me all the way from Maine. Where's simple? No, I'm in Minneapolis. Minneapolis. I love this. I love the reach of mystery hour. Zach to Minneapolis for a question about your remote control. We are truly refreshing the parts that other radio cannot reach. So you mash the button really hard on your remote. Yeah. Does it work? You think that it works, don't you? Well, yeah. I mean, we all do it, don't we? I mean, come on. I like it. So an electrical explanation for why it might. Or. Or is it complete nonsense? Yeah, a complete nonsense. We just. It's like licking a coin when you put it in a vending machine. Do you do that in America? I personally don't. But you're familiar. Or giving it a scratch. People think that it makes it more likely to go through. And sometimes after scratching it, it does go through, but we're deriving an causation from a correlation. I like that, Zach. Thank you. Does it make a difference if you push the buttons harder on a remote control when the batteries are running out? Mark is in Northampton. Mark, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Mark, if you go to private school, why are you referred to as a public school boy? I think it's because the original public schools were opened by wealthy benefactors for the public and the rich kids would have private tutors. So when Henry the something founded Eton and King's College, I think he saw it as a way to educate poorer kids. And it's. It's evolved into the places that you pay for because they're not government run and the language has remained. Give yourself round of applause. Makes sense, doesn't it? It makes sense that. Yes. Yeah, it does. Yeah. Yeah. My son is going to nursery. It's a private school. Yes. The question up. And they did have a benefactor that set the school up many, many years ago and wouldn't have been charging, it would have been to educate. I mean, probably not the horny handed sons of the soil, but the children of merchants and what have you. Whereas the children of aristocrats would have had their own tutors, I think. Wasn't Prince Charles the first member of the royal family to go to a normal school, as opposed to. To have tutors at home? I don't know. Nor do I, but anyway, I'll take the round of applause, thank you very much. I may allow a stewards inquiry on that one because I've dragged it up from the memory bank and they are not as reliable as we might like. Ross is in. Ross. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Ross. Well, it's a little bit silly, but I'm interested in scratch and sniff books and I want to know how. Go on, Ben. Well, I just want to know, how is it that they get the smell onto the paper, but then that smell isn't released until someone scratches it? How long have you been puzzling over this? It's been about three or four weeks. Why? Well, I was walking past John Chiswick High Road, does the really old fashioned bookshop. Yes. On the other side, on the opposite Waterstones. I like that bookshop. It's got some lovely, lovely stuff in it. Yes. This is a bit niche, though, for a national radio station with over a million listeners. It is, but, I mean, I walk past it and I thought, well, I bet they don't have any scratch and sniff, mate. I've got a horrible feeling that I'm being set up for something that I can't see coming here. No, no, I genuinely am interested and want to know how is it? It's all going to go a bit Ghostbusters two in a minute, which is. If you think that was niche about. Is it high road? We just doubled down on it. All right, so you wandered into the. It's an antiquarian bookshop, really the one we're referring to, that we're both familiar with, but everybody knows what an antiquarian bookshop is, so I just. Yeah, I just. I just. It got me thinking. How is it that they get the smell onto the paper, but the smell stays in the paper until you scratch it and the scratch releases the smell and you scratch and sniff? Yeah, but I mean, it always smells. It just smells more when you scratch it because you're warming it up. It'll be heat, won't it? Will it? And some of them, back in the day, I think had. It had us like the kind of scratch off silvery stuff that you get on scratch cards, lottery cards, but otherwise it's just heat activating the perfume in the. Impregnated. In the. In the paper? No. Well, it could be, but I mean, what else could it be? Did you think it might be magic? Well, I don't think it was magic, but it is impressive. All right, again, I feel, I feel that you're yanking my chain, but I 70% certain now that you're not. This is a genuine inquiry. You're truly puzzled by scratch and sniff. The science of scratch and sniff. Yeah. I mean, it might be beneath Professor Howell, but nothing's beneath Professor Howell. Nothing. Okay. Trust me. 1212 is the time. Gareth is in Wigan. Gareth. Question or answer? It's a question. And this one might be beneath him. It's a simple one. It's a simple one. How has it come to be that radiator keys have a square? You know, the key isn't square, but the bolt in the radiator square, the key has to be, obviously, marry up with that. Why they square? Why wouldn't they be? What's the origins of why it became square and not hexagon or an Allen key can fit all right? I don't know. I have to bleed a radiator and the only thing you can use is that square key. You can't use anything else because. No, I get, I get, I get that. So why are radiators made that way is what you're asking? Yeah. And why did this, why they stayed that way so that they haven't stayed that way? Because I've got some new radiator. I've got a mix at home. You might want to pull up a chair. This is really fascinating, but I can use a screwdriver to bleed the posh ones, the posh new ones, the fancy ones. All right. It's just got, it's got, it's got a flathead screw in one corner of it and you can just use that to let the air out. But on the old fashioned moving away from squares, I think we might be moving away from. Okay, the question is then what was the problem with squares then? I don't know how it rose in that way. We'll find out. And what was the other one? The remote control all the way from Minneapolis. Oh, so you've got a flavor of how it works. Now the questions are a little bit on the, I don't know what adjective to use, but anyway, that's what they are. Feel free to come in with something a little bit more high brow should you. So decide. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Remote controls, scratch and sniff books and radiator keys. Martin's in Maidstone. Question or answer, Martin? It's an answer. Carry on to the remote control. Mashing the push buttons. Splendid. It might happen in very, very rare cases that you can make things work that way. Because very often these contacts get corroded and you can sometimes force your way through the corrosion with pressure, rather like the battery contact. Sometimes you wiggle the batteries around, it breaks through the corrosion and the control will start working again. But if the batteries are low, how would that make the button? Because all you need is a slightly low battery and a slightly poor contact with a bit of resistance on it in combination. So that's why you replace the battery. The low resistance doesn't matter anymore? No, the poor contact doesn't matter anymore. So it could work? Yes, but it's unlikely. And in rare cases. But it could. Qualifications? Professor of robotics, Middlesex University. Degree in physics. Former electronics engineer. I think that'll do. 1215 is the time. You're quite right, Phil. Full moon yesterday. That explains a lot. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. If you can't get through, I apologize. Some suggestions that perhaps we should be a little bit more selective with the questions that went up in the first quarter. I can only work with what you give me. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Radiator keys, scratch and sniff literature. And we've done the remote controls. I think I was right about the public school thing, but that is open to steward's inquiry as well. Should you so desire. 90 minutes after twelve is the time Joe is in Hamel Hempstead. Joe, question or answer the question. James. Carry on. Joe, fingerprints. Yours. I was at work last week. He wasn't standing. I was open a box. I slipped and it's cut through my fingerprint. Oh, man. Yeah, it's not major, no stitches or anything, but it scabbed over and I was wondering, will my fingerprint come back the same as it was before? Are you thinking of doing one last job? No, it's a bit more first world problem. Now I won't be able to unlock my iPhone, I think. I don't know. Shall I try and answer this one or not? Because I've got the same problem. Although I chopped off the top of my thumb very nearly when I was chopping some onions a few years ago and it's still a permanent thing. It's not on my iPhone thumb, it's on my other one. But I think that they look a much smaller section than we realize, quite often, cut right across the thumbprint. Well, why don't you just stick it on your phone and see what happens? I can wait. Yeah, it's a good idea. Go on. Hold on. I'm on phone to you, though. I can't do it. Oh, yeah, you can. I'll just wait. Hold on. Right, turn it off, close it down and then see if it still works. He's just hung up by accident. Full moon last night. Mark. Get him back. I'm worried about him, seriously. Anyone sees a bloke with a poorly thumb falling over his phone, give him a hand up. Mark's in Sunbury on Thames. Mark. Mark. Question or answer? It's a question, actually, James. Good afternoon. Hello to you. Yes. Why are senior members of the government in the cabinet? And where does that come from? I like that a lot. I think it goes back to royalty. Well, they have it in America as well. What's the french word? What's the french word? What's the french word? What's the french word? What does Cabernet mean? I'm not going to get to the end of this, am I? I can't just start asking you to tell me what words mean in French. It's like a cupboard, isn't it? Is it, though? Yes. Do you think that monarchs as well? I wish we could keep some of these politicians in a cupboard. Make life a lot easier. So, yeah, why. Why the cabinet? So it's just the origin of the cabinet in a political context, isn't it? Yes. Why not the executive? Or, you know. Well, it used to be the court of Star Chamber was one of the very powerful offices under medieval monarchs. So the cat cabinet, I bet it's. I don't know why. I just got a feeling it might be french. I'll find out for you. Cabinet in politics. Fingerprints and scars. Radiators and keys. Scratching and sniffing. Joe's back. Joe, are you all right, mate? I was worried then. No, I'm all fine, yeah, just lock my phone in, cut you off. Did you hang up by accident? I didn't hang up. I'm sorry. It's happened to us all. Did it work? It. But I have got a bit of. A. Bit of a scabbed over. So it didn't work? No. Well, there you go. So it will grow back differently. Went through. You probably have to do it again. How are you ever going to go? You can get into it using the numbers and then you can reset it with your new song. Okay. I was more interested in whether or not you could now, commit crimes, but they take ten. They take all of your fingerprints when they do you at the police station. So having a scar on one of them that wasn't there before probably wouldn't work. And I think that the computers can analyse a relatively small. I'm going to give myself a round of applause for that. Even though Joe did it all himself. From Joe to Jill in Maidenhead. Question or answer, Jill? Answer, James. Carry on, Jill. Smelly paper. Yes. It's done by microcapsules? Of course it is, yes. And the paper is coated with an emulsion that contains microcapsules. The microcapsules contain. The perfume is encapsulated in the microcapsules. What's the membrane of a microcapsule? Gelatin. So it's a tiny, tiny layer of gelatin? Yeah. Impregnated in the paper? Not impregnate, coated on it. So there's a coating of capsules on top of the paper and the capsules are tiny little pods of smelly stuff wrapped in a tiny thin coating of gelatin. This is just beautiful. I'm getting it. And then when you scratch it, the gelatin pops break and the perfume is released. So theoretically, even something that was made 20 years ago would still work. Unless someone else had scratched it vigorously 20 years ago, in which case it would have dissipated by now. Yes, I would think so. What are your qualifications, though? A lab technician in the paper industry. Did you ever impregnate paper with capsules? Coated them. Did you do it yourself? Yes. You made scratch and sniff paper? Not the paper. Not scratch and sniff paper. But I worked on microcapsules, you know. Uh, yeah, when you use a credit card. We used to have a printout of carbonless paper. Yeah, carbonless paper. That's what I worked on. Oh. So nothing smelly? It was. No, it wasn't smelly, but that's how they do it. I do know that. No. You're going to get a round of applause, Jill. I was just sighing. Thank you. I was sizing you up for a Ray Liotta. You could have lied. You could have lied to me. You could have said, yeah, it's 20 years impregnating paper with perfume, James, and you probably would have got one because I'm quite a soft touch. But your honesty has limited your reward to this. Thank you, Jill. I love that Andy's in Raynham. Andy, question or answer? Hello, mate. I've got a question. Please go on. Two years ago, we had a baby and then, funnily enough, last year we had another little baby. Yeah. Which, funnily enough, I could draw you a diagram if you want, Andy. No, no, it's really weird. Well, my wife had a baby. God. Quickly, because the phone line's a bit rubbish. Go on. Hi, mate. We really struggled finding a name for the babies and you only get three months to register it. We really struggled. After three months, they fine you. If we were proper wrong uns and we decided not to name the baby after dad, what would happen to us? Yeah, I like that question. I don't know. If you just. You didn't register it, it would have to be. Is that right? No, no, I know, I know. I vaguely remember it from you. So what would happen if you didn't? What? Who comes and knocks on your door and what's the punishment? And I don't? There is only one way to find out for sure. Hopefully we won't be reduced to that. We'll find out from someone who already knows. I like that question a lot. Nice one, Andy. 26 after twelve. Neil is in Barnes. Question or answer, Neil? It's a question, James. Carry on, Neil. James, wherever I've been in the world, we have houses and apartments. When I come back to the UK, we have houses and flats. Why are apartments called flats in the UK? I like that. I just. Flats, which be short for something, would it? What? I know, I know, but we're thinking out loud. Help me out here, Neil. I wish I could. And I'm an estate agent, so I don't really know. Why do we call them flats? Apartment is again a french word. Apartment apart. Yep, you're on. Why flats not? Yeah, I like that. I like the etymology ones. Good work, Neil. I shall find out for you. And when I tell you, will you use it to bamboozle your clients with your knowledge? Absolutely. Absolutely. Why not? Of course, you know why we call it a flatted barns, don't you? In an apartment in Paris. I like that a lot. How is business? Sorry for asking, because I suspect lettings are good sales until they stop to drop the stamp duty. Sales are a joke at the moment. So I keep hearing. And I'm just on the other side of the river from you and there's not a lot of movement where we are. It's amazing how many homes that would want have been for sale are now for let. But that's a conversation for a different day. Michael's in Chichester. Michael, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Cabinet. French. Short for cabinet de toilette. Louis XIV was absolutely not interested in politics. He was above it all. So whilst he performed his ablutions in his cabin, the toilet, his ministers would, through the closed door, put to him the latest news and he would give short yes or no answers. Sometimes, as you'd expect, grunts thank you for the local color. Qualifications on this one, Michael. I'm sorry? Qualifications? Qualifications. My first language. Yeah, but it's the history, how you know it, because why would it. Why would it have then crossed the channel? Sorry? Why would it have crossed the channel? Oh, because of the revolution and all these other stores who came to front to Britain from. Why? Why would the british government suddenly start calling it a cabinet? Because of the british sense of humor. No. I'm going to apologize in advance if you're right, but I'm not giving you a round of applause. It might have a sort of bit of truth in it, but I can't quite see 16th, 17th century monarchs, so that's a funny one. We'll call our cabinet the cabinet. The toilet as well. David's in Stanwell. David, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, David. It's the one for the radiator key or the bleed valve on a radiator. He's still my beating heart. Okay then. Most radiator bleed valves are made of brass, so it's obviously quite a soft metal. Yeah. So it makes sense that you have a square. It's equal on either, all sides. So it doesn't wear her down as it would if it doesn't wear down. And you can also use your radiator keys on your boilers as well because they've got the same old boys. Old boilers. Old boilers. Old boilers, yeah. And most probably old radiators now because they're most probably upgrading them. Most people. Most, yeah. Qualifications, I think I know. I used to be a plumber. You used to be a plumber. Why did you turn your back on plumbing? Because I like gardening more. Fair enough. I tell you're a useful fellow to have around, though, eh? Not bad. Is your own home. You've got a jungle out the back and everything's broken with the plumbing. Pretty much. I often find this is the case. If it's your job, the last thing you want to do is go home and start doing it again. That's why misses O'Brien and I never argue. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LB, stuff that we probably should have been talking about instead of Formula one. Grid goals would probably include Liam Fox admitting and indeed contradicting things that he said I think in the referendum campaign that we're perfectly capable of doing more trade with China while we remain in the European Union. I wonder if anyone's shown him the figures of how much trade Germany does with China yet. Of course, no one's going to hold them to account. He'll turn up in a studio soon. No one will say to him, I don't understand why you said that we'd have new opportunities. Look at what Germany can do. And the second bit is that these reports that the government is going to release, particularly cutting on what any curbs on EU migration are going to do to our economic situation. And of course, the prime minister currently insisting that there will be curbs on EU migration, making Britain, London and the rest of the nation a much less attractive destination for the young professionals of Europe. Great. Marty's in Belfast. Marty, question or answer? Question, James, please carry on. Okay. It's to do with shampoo and chargel. You get all these weird and wonderful colors in the bottles. Why is it whenever you apply said stuff, the suds are always white? They're not white. They are. They're not. What color does yours go? Well, that's a bit personal. I've never seen anything that's colored. Whether it's clear. It's clear, isn't it? It's not white. No. Why? You don't. Oh, shut. I'm thinking more of. Yeah. Sorry, you mean on the shampoo? You can have bright yellow shampoo to bring out the heart, the blondness in your hair, apparently. And you can have purple radox. But that turns the bath purple, doesn't it? I have no idea. Haven't had a bath in the high center. The water went off at mine yesterday. There was no water for the whole day. It's amazing, you know, between you and me, Marty, I stood under the shower for about. Just not. Not like ten minutes, but for an appreciable window of time, because I won't bore you with my morning ablutions, but I turn the shower on, I do something else and I get into the shower. I got into the shower and it took me a couple of moments. This is a sign of age, I think. It took me a couple of moments. I thought, something's not right in this shower. Something's not right. I sort of reached for the. This little mild discombobulation. There was no water coming out of it. I stood in the shower for a countable period of time without realizing there was no water coming out. It's just this vague sense of something not been quite right. Superb. It's good to talk, isn't it? It's great. And just as well nobody's listening, because you'll get a slating for that. Exactly that. Exactly that. Why are all the bubbles white? Why is all the froth white when the unguents and the potions are a multiplicity of hues? I love your command of the Queensland. I love yours. Marty, you're on. We'll get you an answer. I was blathering a little in the hope that an answer might pop into my mind, because I think we may have tilted at this particular windmill, but it's not coming, so we'll have to rely on someone else to provide it. Why in Britain do we call apartments flats? Doesn't happen anywhere else. What happens if you don't register your baby after three months? It's a great question. How will they even know? The cabinet question, I think probably would still admit a couple of answers. If it turns out your man was right with his reference to Louis XIV's lavatory, then a small slither of humble pie for me. We've done the radiators, we've done the scra. Yeah, so we're pretty good. We've got flats and bubbles. Not registering your babies and cabinets. Steve is in Hastings. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Facial hair. Why does it grow slower when you're in a warmer country? Are you sure it does? I'm sure it does. And I had a doctor friend stay with us and he said exactly the same. And I said, well, I've been thinking this for months and months. Yes, he had exactly the same. And when our son comes out to visit us, he doesn't shave for nearly a week. And yet, back in the UK, he shaves every other day. Well, isn't it. Isn't it. Isn't it quite obvious? I wish it was. Oh, it keeps you warm, so it's a physiological reaction to the temperature. Well, come on. Looks like you're going to get a round of applause. I thought you might split hairs with Stevie, see what we did there? I thought you might get pedantic with me. But it's, it's, it's, it's. It's sometimes, because I occasionally allow my beard to get a little bit out of control, and I joke with a couple of the lads downstairs that it's my winter pelt, you know, because you do feel your beard, it gets on your nerves in the hot weather. It gets sweaty and unpleasant. You just. You value. You value a pelt when it's cold? I think it must be that, mustn't it? Or do you want a more detailed answer? Even if it's. Well, then why during the summer then, do we. Do I still have to shave if I'm in the UK? Because it doesn't turn off completely, does it? You got to keep the old home fires burning. Okay. Okay. It's the climate there, James. I'm having it. Oh, there it goes. Well placed. Steve. Phil's in slough. Phil, question or answer? It's a question. I did actually have an answer for the. For the scratch and sniffing, but I was told by your person on the phone that you're not allowed to do that. You're not allowed. We've already. We've already answered it. And as a general rule, if the person on the phone tells you that you're not allowed to do something, just leave it on this program. That's totally obvious. My question is this. It's to do with gravity. Now, as I understand things. Yeah, okay. Yeah. As I understand things, the further away you go from a large, large body that has gravitational mass, right. The less the effect that body has on you. For instance, when you're in space, they say you're weightless. Well, you're not actually weightless, are you? Because you're in kind of gravitational equilibrium, aren't you? But what I was wondering was, is there a direct correlation? In other words, if. Let's say, for. I would say you weigh twelve stone at sea level. I'm out. I'm out on this. You lost me. Well, perhaps that, you know that chap you get who phones in quite a lot, the professor brainiac guy, knows the answer to everything. I have no idea what the question is, Phil. Right? No, no. You stop me in midfield, I stopped you mid flow, because I had no clue where we were already, let alone where we started or were going. Bear with me. And hopefully it will become a pound. So if you weigh twelve stone at sea level, right, if you go up to 30,000ft in a commercial air, you know, an airliner, as a proportion of that twelve stone, how much less would you weigh? And if there are actually a direct correlation, and interestingly, conversely, if you were to go in here, if you were to go down into, let's say, the Grand Canyon, so you're close to the earth's core, right? How much more would you weigh? Or did it not work like that? Is it. Is it that the whole kind of the earth, you know, the crust and everything that the earth and what have you. That's where the sort of gravitational effect ends. Do you see what I'm saying? Absolutely not. Down. Well, if you went down into Grand Canyon, you wouldn't weigh more because you're still. You're, you know, you're kind of below the normal surface of the earth, but if you went up above it, you would weigh less. Do you see what? I get the feeling. Your silence seems to speak volumes, James. I get the feeling you're not getting my thing. There's one thing I'm uncomfortable with. There seems to be an implication in your comments that that's somehow my fault. Oh, no, not at all. No, no, it's not your fault, because you and I are in the same boat, you see? Yeah, because I don't understand the either. But you're asking the question. If you don't understand the question, we've got a problem, Phil. No, I understand. I understand the general principle, but I'm wondering, in your head, the question makes sense, but as the words spill out of your mouth, a lot of the sense disappears with them. No, what I'm wondering is, just to briefly recap, if you go for every, let's say, 10,000ft, you rise above the surface as a proportion of your weight. How much less do you weigh? Because the effect of gravity did in. Shit. That's my question. Why couldn't you just have done that in the beginning? Well, because I wanted to give you a bit about, you know, I wanted. I wanted to paint a picture, James. I wanted to, you know, lead you, you know, lead you up to it. Okay. No, that's a good answer. It's a bit of me that is losing the will to live, let alone listen. Yeah, well, you know, hey, we can't all. We can't all be interested in radiator Keith, can we? You know, give her out of the floor. Yeah. That's a beautiful, beautiful comeback, Philip. Well played. It's 1244. Shall we squeeze in, Nadine? I think we will. Will we? Nadine's in here, the green. Nadine, question or answer? Hello? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Nadine. Nowhere near as in just the previous quarters, I'm afraid. Oh, yeah. Why is the small plate that you have on your sub tea or coffee called a saucer? What else would you like it to be called? A little plate with an indentation, perhaps? That's a bit of a mouthful, isn't it? My daughter's quite partial to afternoon tea and she's asked me several times, and I have no clue. How old is your daughter? She's six years old. I love afternoon tea. I think it's a massively underrated meal. Seriously, we've got some bad kiddies ones out there. We go quite often. What sort of places do you go to? Oh, the one in. Somewhere in Keltner. You go to where she gets gold covered strawberry. She gets a little mini chocolate for herself and a little teapot. Lovely. Fab. It's lovely. Clotted cream or not. She'd be young for clotted cream. Oh, no, she loved it. I once got in her. I was in Cornwall. I can't remember why. It's probably something to do with Eu. A fella offered me some clotted cream, like, you know, under the counter. It's one of the funniest things that's ever happened to me, Bruce. Practically like he was offering me drugs. He tapped the side of his nose. So I was waxing lyrical to my wife about how much I love clotting crazy. I've got something you might be interested in there, so. But, um. It comes from the french saucer. But I. What? I don't. I need to be clear on what your question is it. Because it'll come from French or Latin and it will mean a little dish, but translation in French for that. Saucier. Saucy. Saucy, mon. Pretty good. But. But is that good enough for you? So it just comes from the french word for a. For a sauce boat, actually. Sauce boat. What's that got? Sauce boat? Yeah. A lot of words. Look. Yeah. No, but when they come to England, they don't necessarily get used to mean precisely what they meant in the original French. The words. The language. The language evolves, doesn't it? Saucer comes from saucy air. Saucy air doesn't mean little plate, it means sauce boat. But the word may. Well, no, you're not having it, are you? Fair enough. I wouldn't either, frankly. I'll put it on the board. Why do we call a saucer a saucer? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. We want to know the origin of the use of the word cabinet in the context of politics. What happens if you don't register your baby? Why only brits call apartments flats? And why bubbles are always white? Froth. Bubbles are always white. Despite the fact that the unguents whence the bubbles emerge are often multi colored. Simon's in Sheffield. Question or answer? Simon. Oh, hi there, James. I have an answer for you. Bring it on. Bring it on. It's to do with the bubbles. Okay? Yeah. So when shampoo is on its. In its unfroth state. Yes. What happens is the lights is basically the white light is interacting with the electrons on the surface of the shampoo. So. And what will happen is they will reflect and they'll only reflect back a certain wavelength. Yeah. So basically that. That's why red cars. Red, any colour car is that colour or shampoo. What happens when you froth it up is you make lots, lots and lots and lots of tiny, tiny, tiny little bubbles. So then the white light, instead of just being reflected on one color coming back, it actually refracts the light into all its different parts, which is reflect off the back, which is red and yellow and pink and green, orange and of course not pink, though. So these colour the rainbow and then they basically reflect off the back of the bubble, they're unrefracted and then they come back to you as white light. So you see the white light which will have ever so slightly slight hue of the cold that it did have before, but not as much. Qualifications. I used to be a physics teacher and I have a degree in physics. That'll do nicely. Great work. Nice job. Love it. That was one of my favorite. Monty and Simon combining with the question and answer. That was lovely. Kelly's in Watford. Kelly, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Kelly. The origin of saucer. It used to be, back in tudor times, people would have a plate that was theirs to eat from, that was called a trencher, and they would have an additional plate on the side in which their sauce was. So they would have their hunk of meat in front of them, because it would be only the rich at the feasts that they would then dip in their sauce before placing it on their trencher. So it was literally the dish for their sauce, the saucy air. Yeah. Beautiful qualifications. I went with my children to the charterhouse museum a couple of weeks ago and we did a workshop where we met Queen Elizabeth I, an actress playing her. Oh, thanks for clarifying. I was about to alert the news desk. Yeah, that's lovely. Was it eastern? That sounds gorgeous. Hampton Court's very good for that as well. The kitchens at Hampton Court are fascinating as well. So it's same era, isn't it, charterhouse. Is it linked to the school? Whereabouts is it? It is the school, yes. I think it's in the centre of London, so near Barbican. But they have a museum there that I think they opened up the educational bit only about a year ago. Sounds fascinating. They have schools come in and they also have home education groups come in, which is how we ended up going there. It's on the list. How old are yours? Ten, eight and four. But the ten year old was too shy to speak to you herself. Well, give them my love. Do you dread the day when they don't want to do stuff like that? No. Life would be a lot more relaxing. That's the attitude. I'm going to borrow that. I'm having that attitude as well, but that's the point as well. Yeah. Round of applause for Kelly. Absolutely. Karen is in Bromley. Question or answer, Karen? Answer. Carry on. And what happens if you don't register your baby? You're going to get fined and if you don't pay your fine, you're going to get taken to court. Really? Really. Qualifications? Mum of four and I registered one of mine at the very last dying minute and got sent threatening letters. What did you really? What did they say? They said, if you don't register your baby, we'll take you to court. And they will. Yeah. I could have worked that bit out, couldn't I? Wasn't that. That wasn't my most Paxman esque line of questioning. I have to concede. What, um. What. What would be the crime? Not. I mean, is it just not registering? I'm digging a deeper on it. Not registering your baby, James. Go on. Yeah, that's a crime. I think it's all to do with. They need to know, obviously, it's a census. You need to do that. Also, maybe it's to do with schooling, because they must look at how many children we've got in our area. In five years time, they will need to be going to school. Have we got enough schools? Because where I live, there's a terrible shortage of schools and they've built two extra schools, primary school, one primary and one secondary, because of this shortage. So I think it's a future plan. And one of my children is home birth, but they still knew of her, because obviously, you go to your doctor, you still go to hospital for your scans, so they can track you and sort of think, well, what's happened there? And also, if you don't register and they've got you on the thing, they might think, oh, my gosh, she's killed the baby. But that's a bit extreme. They're all selling it. I mean, you know, there could be sinister reasons why they. I get why they have to do it. It's a fairly beautiful answer that we just can't have people popping babies out willy nilly, can we? No, we need control. We need control. We need to count. That's why I stopped at four. Yes, well done. Well, we've only got your word for that. Keep carrying around the floors quickly before this gets any madder. Colin is in. Worthing. Question or answer, Colin. I've got an answer for you, James. Aye, aye. Bring it. The flats. Why are apartments or whatever called flats in the UK? It's quite simple. It's because they're all on one level and they're effectively flat. And it comes from a german word meaning, I think, flat ground. I think the word might be flat, but it means flat or level ground. So it's because it doesn't have an upstairs, really? Exactly. But then we could confuse things with bungalow, I think, and that will be anglo saxon era language adoption, won't it? So bungalows are called bungalows, actually. Why are bungalows called bungalows? Because when they built the first one, they ran out of bricks and had a bungalow roof on it. I'm gonna kill you, mate. Spent years turning mystery hour into a veritable bastion of information and education. You just completely crushed it with a dad joke. Sorry. That's all right. Flet is the correct answer. Round of applause. Good work. I planted it. Now, 1257. I'll tell you what, I'll be impressed if anyone's quick enough to ring in and say, what's the origin of the word bungalow, James? Because I've got a great joke if they do. Raphael is in Putney. Raphael. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on to the gravity question. Well, really, did you understand it? I think I did get what you said. Well, then, I owe him an apology. I thought he was bonkers. Carry on. Firstly, the thing that he defined as weight is incorrect. Was talking about mass, because your mass is how much material you're made of, and that won't change depending on how far you are away from the Earth center or not. But weight will change. Of course it will. Which is observable mass, as it were. Well, no, I'll shut up. You keep being. It's the force at which you and the Earth are pulling each other together, and the formula that works that out is inversely proportional to the square of your distance. So the further away you are from the Earth, the smaller that force that pulls you together. But being 30,000ft above the Earth, comparing to you being on the Earth's surface, won't actually make that much of an observable difference. And so. But if you went further and further and further away. The inverse of the square of the Earth. Indeed. Hence, why in. So. Hence why in space, you are a lot further away and therefore you feel the Earth's gravitational pull a lot less the further you are away from the planet. Ryan, qualifications coming up? I have a master's degree in astrophysics and cosmology. Yeah, that's pretty close, isn't it? But you never thought it coming this useful, did you, Raphael? Can I add a little bit more? I can't. I've got to squeeze in Gareth. She. I'm already crashing Sheila's show and I just want to do one on cabinet. Gareth in Ripley. Next time, Rafael, I promise. Question or answer, Gareth? It's an answer. Go on. Yeah. The origins of cabinet. Now, quickly, my understanding, my understanding of it, and I've read a little bit about it. Is it all terms from how we used to live in our homes when many families, or even single families, all lived in one room centuries ago? Now, as things have progressed and we've managed to move. I did say quickly, I said quickly. Right, ok. Basically, it was a name for an additional room within a property where families live, where they used to keep. They're more prized possessions. Things that were a little bit more shiny, things were a little bit more valuable. I got to go. Sheila, what do you think? Round of applause or not? I don't know if the answer doesn't matter. I know the answer to bungalow. I'm sorry, I've never known the answer on mystery. Only if you explain why you've brought six grid girls into the studio. Well, boys, please, with their gums. Bungalow, I think it's a Bengali word, a Hindi word, for the little cottages that they built for the first european settlers. Round of applause for Sheila Fogarty, please. Oh, my God, I'm so excited. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.