How do the police name their operations?

On LBC, three minutes after twelve is the time. And let mysteries be solved. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. The who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence. Even perhaps I say this every week. The occasional wherefore. We've never had a wherefore, we've had a wherefore. Had Withers galore. Whences, wheres wise? Wise, mostly wise. If you're new to this feature you're probably wondering what on earth I'm talking about. Let me enlighten you. It's the radio equivalent of those newspaper features where or magazine features where a reader will write in with a question why do we do this? Where does that come from? What's the origin of that? Why, did, what, who, why, where, when? And then someone else will write in with the answer. But it might take weeks. Here it takes mere minutes and there aren't really any rules except dullness and repetition. If your question is boring it won't get on the board. Let me explain how you can work out in advance whether or not it is boring. Very simply put, if you don't think anyone else would be interested in the answer, you know, it's like the possibility you need to be clear. Look, I'll give you an example, all right? Paul's in north hole. What have you just rung in to ask? Well, last night my wife's got a bit of a bad back, so last night I did the dutiful husband bit and rubbed in some analgesic cream into her back. Numb the pain? Yeah. And I was just wondering how come my hand didn't go numb? How come your hand didn't go numb when you were using the analgesic thing to rub into your wife's back? I put the cream on my head. No, I know, I've understood, but. And have you checked, I mean, the notion that this is sort of interesting to other people. What gives you the confidence that this is interesting to other people? Well, while I was waiting for you to get back to me, I did a little survey and a lot of people said they were really, really interested. Ah, rubbish. Who did you do a survey on? My wife. And she's. Well, she's all I need to know. All right. Well I may, I may review the situation, but there is an example of something that isn't necessarily going to be of interest to anybody else, so sort of polite illustration. The answer, of course, is because of the thickness of your hand being much greater than the epidermis on your hand is much thicker than the epidermis on your skin, so it takes longer to get to the nerve so your hand doesn't go numb. So you need to be clear that everybody listening, or at least a significant proportion of people listening or are you going to recognize them? Mystery and b want to hear the answer to it. Repetition is our lookout. Repetition is our problem. Repetition is very simply the case that if the question has been asked and dealt with relatively recently, then we will elect not to do it again. I think that's pretty much it. We can pass straight in this week. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. As a general rule, you'll only hear me say the number when I've got phone lines free. I mean that's true right across the week, but it's particularly pertinent during mystery hour. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you do know the answer, then ring the same number and provide it. And that, I mean, it's up and running now I've got five free, so six minutes after twelve, get your number on the board. Now there's usually a bit of wheat chaff sorting to be done at the top of the hour, but the quicker we get that out of the way, the sooner we can start solving mysteries. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Best chance in a while of getting through early today. 1206 is the time Simon is in Harrow. Simon, question. Do you think I was unfair on Paul Simon? No, I don't think so. Are you sure? Yeah. What's your question? I was curious about the new five pound notes that had been printed. I think it was 400 million of them. These are the plastic ones? Yeah, yeah. Would inflation be a result because they still got bring in the old fibers that are still circulating. So I don't understand the question. Right. When money is they're constantly, they're constantly releasing five pound notes. All that's changed is that they're now not releasing paper ones, they're releasing plastic ones. So, so what you've rung up to ask is do you think the bank of England might have accidentally done this without realizing that it would affect inflation? No, no, no, not that. Like because of the actual amount that it doesn't seem like it's just being replaced slowly. They just made a whole bunch of them and just said, right, there you go and we'll truck the others in when they hit the people trading in at the bank for, well, so I mean, I see what you mean, if they're releasing this many in one big go, will that actually somehow could cause deflation, wouldn't it? It would make the pound worth less. I don't think either of us. I don't think either of us are qualified to deal with this question, to be honest with you. But I'm going to put it on the board. Explain to Simon why all these new five pound notes won't affect inflation. Mike is in high wicker. Mike, question or answer? Question. James Michael wondered. Yes. What would happen if one of the presidential candidates croaks before the election? They get replaced in light of Clinton being ill and all that stuff. I'm not suggesting for a moment, but what would happen if one of them did croak? They get replaced. I think if they die, it's by the vice presidential candidate. If they pull out. I mean, there've been a lot of articles written about this for the very reason that you cite. There's no formal mechanism in place, but the presumption is the vice presidential candidate would step up to the plate. And if they didn't want to, then I guess the party management gets to make an appointment. Ok. Ok. Why are you thinking of throwing you out into. Are you thinking of throwing you out into the ring? Yeah. Why not? I'm not sure I could do any worse. You're telling me. Talk about a rock and a place. But how do I know the answer to that? Easy. I've read it this week while dealing with the Hillary Clinton situation, so I will take that. Thank you very much. Martin is in Leytonston. Martin, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Question, please. Go on, Martin. My son's shoes got soaking wet the other day, so I stuffed some old newspapers in them. Right. And you often refer to newspapers becoming tomorrow's fish and chip paper. It's not my own line, but it is one I use a lot. Yes. And we use them for starting fires and protecting the floor when we paint it. What are we gonna do in newspapers? That's not a mystery, mate. Yeah. What's going on this week? What's going on this week? We go amateur hour. Not mister. How can that be a mystery? But what's the next best thing to news? What are you gonna use? That's. That's what I was thinking. Well, tell me what you're gonna use. I don't know, but you're gonna get. What sort of a God of. Think of something. I can't use magazines because they're glossy, I suppose. Cloth or something. That's no answer to your question is there. Well, they must. I'm not clairvoyant. How do I know? They don't use. They just use paper now in fish and chip shops. I don't think you're allowed to use. Certainly not for the first wrap. You're not allowed to use newspaper anymore. It's a bit like asking what are we going to do when all the oil runs out? No, this is a bit more imminent, isn't it? It might be a bit more. I don't think it is a bit more imminent. It's still selling in their millions. But the question of what are we going to use for all the things we use newspaper for? When there are any newspapers anymore? Nobody knows personally. Be different in every house. I don't know. Maybe there's a marketplace there or something for paper with no news on it. No. Well, there is probably, if you need a little. But. But it's not a mystery. Martin Maury's in pin up, Maureen. Question or answer? Yes, question please, James, carry on. Last hour prompted me to ask a question which I thinking about for some time, which is when funeral directors are preparing a body. Oh, Lord. What happens to the blood? Does it go in the main sewer? Do they sell it for fertilizer? Oh, God. What? Oh, I don't know. Well, so you've got a very. It is a mystery. That's the first proper mystery of the week, actually. And it's already eleven minutes after twelve. You, uh. There you go. You have quite. You've quite a sick mind, Maureen, if you don't mind me saying so. Well, I have. Well, I'm glad I haven't offended you. I'm glad I haven't offended you. You're in full agreement with me? I am a full agreement because I listened to the last hour also, you may have noticed I was in it. And I found myself wondering about many things funeral related. But where all the blood goes was not one of them. Can I ask you a personal question? You can. When you were contemplating this issue, did the phrase black pudding appear anywhere in your mind? No. But when I was walking around m and s a few weeks ago, I saw black pudding and I did wonder. I don't know. I would have presumed it went down the sewer until you said that thing about. I mean, it's highly unlikely they do anything with it because that would involve selling the blood. And I just think we know about. That's what I thought. We know just. Well, people think that they're burying or cremating a loved one, but if the blood's been removed and then there's not the whole person there, is it? Oh, let's not get. Let's not get philosophical, Maureen. Anyway, a lovely day. I thought I'd give you a nice, happy, cheerful question. Well, can I give you a nickname? You can. Can I call you morbid Maureen from now on? Wow, my family's gonna love that. It's twelve minutes after twelve. Help out morbid Maureen. Where does all the blood go? Hazel is in Hammersmith. Hazel, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer to the question about the man who was rubbing cream into his white hands. Didn't go numb. I was in the process of banning that question for being too boring. Did I make a terrible mistake? Do I owe Paul an apology? I'm afraid I don't think your answer was. I don't think your answer was probably right. What? Go on, then. Because most every week, I never learned. I never, ever learned. The more condescending and rude I am to a questioner for being rubbish, the more likely it is that within minutes someone else will come on and pull my pants down. Metaphorically speaking, hazel, of course. So most of the creams that are on the market and are marketed for muscular aches and pains contain diclofenac as an active ingredient. And diclofenac is a class of drugs, a non steroidal anti inflammatory, which doesn't contain any numbing properties. There are creams on the market that contain lignocaine, but they tend to be marketed for things more like. You find them in sunburn creams. So why does it help his lady? Why did it help his wife's back? The cream would have contained diclofenac, but as he rubbed in, the diclofenac would have been absorbed through the skin of the back? Yes. But not through the skin of the hand? No, no, he would have absorbed some, but he doesn't have any inflammation. So why didn't his hand go numb, is what he was asking. Because the active ingredient doesn't cause numbness. What does it do? Clofenac doesn't. Reduces inflammation. That's what I just said about. I mean, I appreciate that that was a bit foolish in my original dismissal of the question, but it absorbs the same substance. But unless there's an actual muscular pain there, it won't make any difference to where you are. So it does actually target inflammation, like it says in the adverts with the red spots? Yes. It would target inflammation wherever it was in the body. So your hand doesn't go numb because your hand didn't have any pain to be treated. There was no inflammation to be diluted, addressed, helped. Well, yes. So it was quite a good question, then. No, but there was nothing in the cream that would cause numbness. No, I get that now. So it was actually quite a good question. It was quite a good question, then, yes. Yes. And so the answer to your question is he would have absorbed. So it had nothing to do with thickness of epidermis? Nothing to do with the thickness of the epidermis. It would have. Would have made it harder to be absorbed through the hand and perhaps would have taken a bit longer. Yes, that's right. Thinner skin on his back. Yes, some would have been absorbed. So if he was using the sort of treatment you described, then your answer is correct. But if he was actually using some form of local anaesthetic, then my answer would probably have worked. Yes. If he was using something containing lignocaine, then lignocaine would have been to wear gloves when applying it, because otherwise his hand would have gone, see? Great stuff. Qualifications. Hazel. I'm a nurse. There you go. Round of applause for nurse Hazel, please. 1215 is the time. This is LBC. James O'Brien on LBC, 90 minutes after twelve. I forgot that the only other rule of mystery hour is that you're not allowed to look stuff up before providing the answers. It should be self evident that, but apparently it isn't. The point of this is that we celebrate knowledge, so it's a slightly unfashionable thing to do when you can google everything, you've got all the answers at your fingertips. But it's nice to know stuff. It's reassuring, actually, to know stuff. It's quite uplifting just to know stuff, which is why I ask what your qualifications are. If you provide an answer so we can find out where you found out, what you found out and shared, and to give you an idea of how broad the church is, qualifications can range from. I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton right through to. I saw it on the telly last night, James, they all count, they're all equal. Just a way of establishing whether or not your credentials are solid, whether your answer is true. 20 minutes after twelve is the time Belinda is in Ely. Belinda. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Belinda. How do the police name their operations? Oh, I like that. What's made you wonder? Because when the Jimmy Savile won, it was Operation Utree and I thought, where does that name come from? Yes. Phone hacking was weeting, wasn't it? Yeah. And I just think, well, where do they come from? Well, it's. I've been puzzling about this. You've just reminded me because I do that thing, Belinda, like with jokes when it comes to mystery hours, I think all week, I think, oh, I must ask that one myself. And then when Thursday at twelve comes around, I can never remember it. But you've now reminded me because I thought, and I'm quite confident, that the original answer to your question is that there's an approved list with a bunch of words on it and the police officer in charge of the operation just picks one. But I'm sure you were across the closure of fabric nightclub in London last week, Belinda. I'm sure that was keeping you awake at night. That was Operation Lenore. As in fabric conditioner Lenore? So there's no way that was too. For me. I've just. How could that have been Operation Lenore? If it just comes off an approved list, it's too much of a coincidence to imagine that, Lenore. There's got to be something that makes them pick those names. So we need a copper. We do and we will find out. But I know there's an approved list and it does. It's not alphabetical or anything like that, like it is with. With storms and things. But I shall. I shall endeavor to get you an answer to that question. Maybe I've missed represent. Oh, you're more than lovely. Part of the word Ely. It is, isn't it? Absolutely gorgeous. It really is. 22 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Do you know or is she gone? Got some top, top trivia about Ely. I can't remember it now though. Guys. It's magical radio, isn't it? Hey, I've got a really good bit of trivia that I've forgotten. No wonder the figures are going through the roof at the minute. It's to do with bric a brac. It's to do with a saint and Ely cathedral. And it was. Ah, it's gone. Kevin's in Gillingham. Kevin, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Kevin. Yeah, what it is, we just had a circus come to town and I've noticed in the paraders shops, all the closed up shops, they managed to get their posters up. But they're not outside, they're inside. So they can't carry around a bunch of keys. How the hell do they get the posters inside, against the glass. Maybe they do a deal with the local estate agents. I'm not sure. They seem to be everywhere. I know. I recognize what you described, and you're right, they are on the inside, because you have the sign on the outside where it says no bill stickers. Yeah. And that stops them from pasting them on the outside, but they get them in on the inside, even though the shops have closed down. I have encountered that myself. It's not confined to Gillingham, I'm happy to confirm, but in terms of using the Sherlock Holmes school of detection, the answer must be that a key holder helps them. You give ten quid to the bloke who's the key. I don't know. Why am I even trying to answer this question? Kev? I just thought, you know, the other does walking past us. How do they do that? They get them in there. How do they get them in there? All right, you're on. Okay, thank you. I don't know who we can. I presume it's got something to do with the estate agent, hasn't it? It's bound to have something to do. It doesn't happen very often, but it certainly happens. And it is usually a select few posters that manage to breach the defenses. Kevin, thank you very much. Nicky is in Woking. Nicky, question or answer? It's going to be an answer, Jane. Excellent. Which one? It is to morbid more. Bit more. Tensor hooks. Yes, that's right. I'm a qualified embalmer and funeral director, so can answer all questions on that for you. In answer to morbid Maureen's question about what happens to the bodily fluids. Do you really want to know? Yeah. Well, not really, no. But that's mystery for you. I've got to. Now, it's nothing horrendous about black pudding or anything disgusting like that. It is to do with the fact that bodily fluids are disinfected, then place down the drain. Sorry. No, that's fine. I like it. So they're coming out while you're on the table. You've got little drain pipes down. You've got drain pipes down the side of the table and it all just goes down the plow. How do you disinfect it? Just by? Well, it is collected in a vessel that we disinfect before you actually throw it straight down to this thing. So, you know, no special pipes or anything like that? No, I always think that it should be clinically removed, but being in the funeral business. No, it is not. Round of applause for Nikki. I'm not surprised you didn't ring in during the last hour, Nikki. You weren't listening, were you? I'm sorry. No, no, I'll tell you why. Because I'm working as we speak. I just caught the tail end. Morbid Maury, are you? When you say you're working as we speak, are you currently embalming a body? No, no, no. I'm a carer at the moment due to unforeseen circumstances of previous employment and I can't get back in the funeral business, but. Oh, so you're doing something else? Talk to Teresa. Talk to Teresa. She sounded lovely over at Chingford Mount. There you are, you see your name? James. You know what? Hey ho. You might mind how you go, Nikki. 25 minutes after twelve. She might not be in the business still, but she's still providing the answers on mystery. Gemma is in Croyde. That was the other question I've forgotten about. Anyway, Gemma's about to answer it. Gemma, off you go. Hi. I will. The will. The. I mean, Simon and I both got a bit confused. Loads of new plastic fibers. Is that going cause inflation or something? No, because the banks just swap them as you pay in old ones, they give out new ones. Yeah, that's what I thought. Yeah. It's a stupid question, that. Yes, it was a stupid question. And Paul's question, which I said was stupid, wasn't stupid. No, but sometimes that. You are right. Sometimes. Yeah, well, not often. Paul's question about that. What was Paul's question about again? The one that wasn't stupid, that was actually the cream one. Yeah, the cream. The cream one was a good question. I've already apologized to him. He's trolling me now on twitter. But the one about the banknotes was a stupid question and I sort of. Oh, glory. What are your qualifications, Gemma? My mum worked in a bank, so it's pretty obvious. And she still gets people bringing in old, like, pal notes and they do swap them sometimes. I think there comes a point where you have to go to threadneedle street when they're no longer legal tender. Or maybe the local banks will let you do it on your. Well, it's earned you around. She can buy them off her bank, the old ones. Really? Yeah. Well, you can have a round of applause in the meantime. Thank you. Carry on. 26 minutes after twelve is the time. This is mystery out. Right. Is the number you need. So we've done the inflation. I like this question, actually. The posters one. How do they get posters in shops that are shut? Because you do see it a lot. All of us see it. And there's a lot of empty shops around me at the moment. I don't know how economically significant that is. How do police operations get their name? We've done the blood. And this was also a rubbish question, but I was beginning to lose my confidence a bit by the time it came on. So I didn't really dismiss it quite as arrogantly as I should have done. What will we use when newspapers no longer exist to do all the stuff we currently use newspaper for? Like, you know, you put down paper when you're painting? Well, decorators will put down tarpaulins, won't they? Or dust sheets or things like that. Philip is in Hatfield. Philip, question or answer? It's a question. Jackson. Carry on. Why is it when we're looking for good luck, we tap our heads and we say, touch wood? Topping our heads is a later development. Ah. Originally we would have actually touched actual wood. So tell me more. Why that? Why do we. Well, what is the abiding religious ideology of this country over. I was the moment. Islam, isn't it? Well, that's about 4%. So. No, it's christian. I guess it is. And what is the symbol of Christianity? Do you know something? It's like being back at school. I hope you pay more attention now than you did then. What is that? What is the. What is the symbol of Christianity? It's probably the cross game. And what is the cross made of? Wood. And what are we doing? What are we doing when we touch wood? Yeah, but why do we touch metal, glass? Because we're not saying a little prayer. You don't give up, do you? What? Being right. Well, trying to be. James, can we get rid of this fellow, please? Don't let him on again. I don't like people like that. He's a fun sponge. Mark is in Weybridge. Mark. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, sir. The posters in the windows go on. They basically stick a poster onto a poster with sellotape and they push it in through the slot at the top of the door and they dangle them down and down and down until they've got them far enough inside. And then they just sell them onto the inside of the top of the door shut. The front door really closed. And I was sat there. I'm a taxi driver, I was sat there in a queue watching. And this plate went along each window to stick and I just was mesmerized. That's incredible. And you know what? You're right. I'm getting support. I'm I would have been a little skeptical, Mark, but I'm getting support for your theory. On, um. On Twitter, they say they feed it through the. So we only work on some doors because they've done it in our local kebab shop that shut down and it's got a glass front with a glass door cut into the glass front, so it works there. It wouldn't work on a. It'd work on most doors, actually, wouldn't it? Because you only have the ridge down the side to stop the lock being forced at the top. You haven't got it at all. No. No. So it's that simple. Round of applause for Mark. That's a lovely answer to a lovely question. All right. That's completely wrong on that one. Nicely played, Mark. And a lot of people have actually witnessed it as well, so we got double bubble support for that. 12:30 is the time. Simon Conway's here with the headlines. The government says new safeguard with James O'Brien on LBC, three minutes after twelve. I love that post. I don't know why that poster's answers tickled me. Tickled me pink. How did police operations get their names? I think that's the only question remaining on the board. If you've got another one, then you know what to do. Zero. 345-606-0973 unless you want to have a crack at that rubbish question about newspapers, which is, what will we do when there aren't any newspapers for all the things that we currently use old newspapers for fish and chips. You're not allowed to wrap a newspaper, so they just buy newspaper without print on it. The paper you get there is the same stuff that your newspapers are printed on, but they've just. They don't have to buy it from suppliers rather than just use old newspapers. 26 made me hungry that. I think I might have fish and chips after this. There's a new one just opened on old Compton street. Very hard to get good fish and chips in central London. I apologize to people listening elsewhere. But on the other hand, the plus side is it's not very hard to get good fish and chips wherever you are. So you get outside. The south east is not great for fish and chips in general. Central London is awful. And there are a couple of good places which you'll now text me. Go to that place in Covent Garden. 20 quid. 20 quid? You don't get change out of 20 quid. By the time you've had cod chips, mushy peas and a nice fizzy pop. Don't get much change. Out of 20 pounds. I go to captain cods on Cumberson Hill in Kidderminster. I can feed the whole family for that and take my mum with us. It's incredible. Sorry, I'm a bit distracted there. John is in Edgeware. John, question or answer? It's a question. Black James. Carry on, John. Well, from what I've been led to believe, the way we distinguish a large town from a small city in this country is by a cathedral. So how do they distinguish a large town from a small city in other places, like America? Why wouldn't it be the same? I don't know. That's the question. That could be the answer. Could be that they do. Because it is. You're right. Because some places that have, like Ely, who we spoke to, the lady from Ely a moment ago, has an amazing cathedral, but it's a relatively small conurbation. But it qualifies as a city because of the cathedral, doesn't it? Yeah. So does that rule work in other countries as well? What's the. Let's just concentrate on America, because we can't. There might be different answers for every country under the sun. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. We will want an answer to the definition of a city in America. Yeah. I love that question. Why are you wondering about it? Atlantic City. Sorry? Why are you wondering about it? Basically, I was having a conversation with one of my coach driver colleagues and that came up. And because he's an american gentleman, we were wondering. We actually looked on Google. We can't find an answer. So that's why we've turned to the genius that is mystery, the genius that is our listeners. John. Nothing to do with me. I haven't got a clue. We'll try and find out. It's a lovely question. Now, these are the sort of questions I like, that kind of thing that you should really have all thought about. We should all have, like, well, how. But then. And so the thing. So, definition of a city in America, please. Zero. 345-606-0973 Simon is in Hays. Question or answer? Simon. It's an answer. James. Carry on. It's the one about the police, the names of police operations. Oh, yes. I'm a retired police officer. I've only been retired a couple of years. How are you finding it? Oh, it's stressful. James, you won't believe it. What? Being retired? No. You're mocking me. I'm being carried. So you're glad you're happy you've hung up your helmet? Yeah, absolutely. Or handcuffed. No, what it is, there's a computer at Scotland Yard that throws out these names randomly. And the reason they have this is because previously to this, every now and then some, it would be up to the senior investigating officer, the SIO, as he was known, to pick a name. And sometimes they would be a bit inappropriate. I think there was one. One example was operation money Spinner, because everybody in it was earning loads of overtime. I like that. Of course, someone decided, quite rightly, I think, that this was wrong. So they set up a computer that throws out complete random names. I don't know where the names come from. I can't give you that. Might not be completely random, because I thought there was an approved list. So it would be like closing your eyes and sticking a pin on a list, but you get the computer to do it. That's right. And it's an approved list, as you say. So how did. And I may have got my facts wrong on this, and you won't know the answer, actually, but it just putting it out there, because that investigation into fabric nightclub was apparently called Operation Lenore, which is a fabric conditioner. So there's no way that was a coincidence, is that. Well, it could be. James. Come off here, copper like you. You're not. How can you be so trusting and gullible? That sounds like a. Some sort. No way. No. Well, the funny things do happen, James, and you do have to keep an open mind. I'm keeping it. No one's got a more open mind than I have. But if you've got a night club called Fabric and a police investigation called Operation Lenore, there's no way that that is a coincidence, Simon. Well, it could be. It could not be. If it's not, then there were some local. Some local operations which were considered. Someone thought of a name locally and it's an undercover operation rather than an operation into a crime that's actually being committed, it might have different rules. So if you're launching an operation to solve a crime, then your answer holds. But maybe if you're launching an undercover operation, you can name it whatever you want. No, I was thinking more of an operation where you're looking at a local problem. Like we'd have an operation where we blitz Ealing Broadway in that area to deal with taxi touts or something like that. Yes. And that might. If it was just completely local operations, someone there might think of a name. They could call it Operation Tout or something like that. Operation Tout? Yes, or something like that. But if it's so, I don't know that operation that you're talking about. I don't know what sort of. Sort of scale it was on, but if it's on anything that affects. Well, it's incredibly local. It was focused on one nightclub. Right. Well, then I would think, yes, that could well have happened rather than going through. It's normally for operations which are wide reaching, like going throughout the whole of the Met, the Met police district or even nationally, like you say, Operation Yew tree wheating, these sort of operations. I like it. Well, it's earned you a round of applause for your. Thank you very much. Superb. There you go. Get in. It's not quite a gallantry medal, Simon, but, you know, keep the wolf, 1239 is the time. And I would ask someone from Operation Lenore to ring in and tell us how that operation got its name. But I imagine you're all hanging your heads in shame. William is in new. And William. Question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Yeah, I was just wondering whether the mass of the earth can change as a result of more people being on planet. On planet Earth. So the more does the weight of the world go up? Yeah, the more people that. Well, it must do, mustn't it? I mean, objectively speak or does it know because there's a finite. I'll stop trying. It's a clever question. I don't know. Yeah, it's because I was. I've been having a chat with my cousin and he convinced me that it doesn't change. But also what I know that the mass of the planet affects is its velocity. So the days go as a. We have more hours or less few hours in a day. I can't remember which. Which way is so. And I know that before the earth used to spin around me, the sun around its axis, in about 21 hours. So it's now 24 hours. Yeah, you've lost me now, mate. Sorry. No, hang on, stop talking. I just. I'm not clever enough to keep up with you now, so I'm going to have to keep it down to the original simple question, which is, does the population size affect the mass of the earth? Yeah, all right. Okay. Your cousin says no and you say yes, is that right? Yeah, I did say yes. No, we need to find a winner. But he sounds quite clever, your cousin. All those words. I wouldn't put money on. On you. Dave's in Chichester. Hello, Dave. Hello, James. Hey, Dave. I'm alright. What's going on? And nothing much. I've just been taking the dog for a walk. If you're interested. You know I'm interested. I'm always interested. Question or answer? It's an answer about cities. Oh, yes. And the american cities, they've got nothing to do with cathedrals or anything. It goes back a lot of them, to the pioneer days when they had little one horse towns and they wanted to attract more people to come and live there. So they called it a city so that it sounded bigger and more important than it was. Yeah. So it's just. It's just a decision. It's just legislation. They've just decided to go. And we've got some cities that don't have cathedrals in them as well. So I think Sunderland and Brighton. Pete has suggested. I was going to try and pretend I just plucked that off the top. Yeah, that's right. It has got a city, has it? Cathedral now, you're right. Brighton and Sunder. So probably in the olden days that applied to us, but otherwise it's. And it's not even linked to population. There's not a threshold over which you've become a city. No, as I say, it used to be to try and get people to move there. And there was a thing recently about affording city status to somewhere, wasn't there? Or somewhere lost its city status. So it obviously had nothing to do with the cathedral. It was. It was some sort of local government type decision. Qualifications, Dave? I read it in a book. I want to say Bill Bryson, but I can't remember exactly who was, but I definitely read it in a book. Sounds quite Bryson esque. I like it. Watch it with those books, Dave. No good. No good ever comes of reading books. I know. 1242. Round of applause for Dave. I just read a great book called the Good Liar, if you like a nice thriller that is twist central. And I learned quite a lot. You know, conversation we were having yesterday about the. The war criminal, the 95 year old man on trial for crimes at Auschwitz. I learned quite a lot about that period of history as well, and some of the interesting things. I love those sort of thrillers that you learn by osmosis. Just checking. Gary is in Ilford. Gary, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. The question is when? I've travelled on the London Underground, which I don't do a lot, but I find it fascinating, the number of labyrinths there are in terms of the main tunnels. And also. I'll tell you what, mate, if you ever. I've had the pleasure of being in the front of a train, and if you think it's labyrinthine. From the passenger side of it, you're in the front. You can see things going off in every direction and all those sort of different ways. It's a real treat, I would imagine. And also, of course, those kind of side tunnels where, you know, work, people can go in when they. So given that the victorians didn't have any gps, I find it fascinating how they really exactly connected one point to another when they built these tunnels. And I'd like to know how they did that. I mean, these tunnels are hundreds of feet underground, and I can't think of how you would kind of, you know, very exactly pinpoint one location to another and connect them so exactly in such a massive network. How did they do that? Why would it. I think I understand your question, but why would it be any different? You mean because it was dark? Because they couldn't see any landmarks. They were working in raw earth, so you can't sort of. Because I was going to say, how could they build roads without gps? And you just said, well, they can see where they're going. Yeah. At least you've got a point of reference. You're on the surface, but under the ground, you're hundreds of feet underground. There is nothing. Nothing like we have nowadays, like no gps. So, you know, how do you. How do you navigate that underground in those days? I just find that incredible. I think I find it incredible. It's either incredible or quite simple. And we're both missing it. Oh, I'm missing it for sure. You go down from above. All right, so how did they. How did. How did they build the underground without knowing where they were going? Exactly. All right. I think that's a good. Do you want to know some underground trivia? Say again? Sorry? Do you want to know some London underground trivia? Yeah, always. Go on. You like this one? There is a station on the circle line that actually has a river in it. River going through the station above the level of the railway track. Above. Oh, I see. So, okay, so there's kind of. How's that work? Hang on a minute. I'm trying to imagine that. Which station is that then? Sloane Square. You go and have a look at Sloane Square. There's, like, a massive pipe above the platforms, and that's got the river. I think it's the river Westbourne or the river fleet going through it, because the engineers had a good look at it and what can we do? And then they just decided, no, that's it. We can't change the course of the river. We'll just stick it all in a pipe. Wow. No, that is something. Wow. Don't get that on radio four, Gary. You don't get that on radio four, mate. Well, this is why I'm listening to this station, mate. See top man. A little bit of bespoke London underground trivia for you there. I hope I've remembered that correctly. It's 1230 would be one for Steve Allen, who's James and his magical hour. 1246 is the time. St Louis Knight is here with the travel. Thanks, James. Good afternoon, LBC. Ten minutes to one is the time this Sunday night from eight on LBC. Don't miss the travel hour. As always, our expert guests will be here to offer holiday advice and answer your travel questions. This week's destination guide is all about Croatia, so catch up on previous episodes at LBC Dot Co Dot UK and you can also win a long haul break to your pick of destinations, including Dubai, Hong Kong, New York. All thanks to Gatwick Express, helping you arrive without the stress. It's Battle of Britain day today. Battle of Britain, of course, unfolded over a period of some weeks, but today is the day that we choose to commemorate it. And it suddenly occurred to me that we haven't heard from Professor Hal today, and that's probably why, because the polish contribution to the Battle of Britain was epic. And what I've never. I mean, I have told you this before. After I got to know Professor Hal through the program and Ms Jarrah in particular, I learned that he is the grandson of Stanislav Sosabowski, who was a polish general in World War Two and was commander of the polish first independent parachute brigade based here. Amazing history. Just to sort of. You want to read up a little bit on that after the. And it got turned into that film, you know, Operation Market Garden. I can never remember which of the classic war films it is, but he's in it. And Professor Hal's grandad is the fella played by Gene Hackman in that film. Is it where eagles dare? I can't. It's one of those. Anyway, I did a lot of digression today, but I thought I'd get that one out there, seeing as it is Battle of Britain day 1252 is the time Michael is in Croydon. Question or answer, Michael? My answer for you there, James. Carry on, mate. The question about the underground, how do they find their way when they're directing it? Basically, they use similar, if not identical, surveying equipment that engineers use in construction, but they use it to find laser points and then set lasers up to direct the line. So keep the laser in the center where they need to be going. And then the next point will be 2 meters left of center when it needs to turn up on an angle. And then that becomes new centre of the tunnel. They change direction and follow that way. How do you know this? What are your qualifications? I was an underground miner for eight years, so I used similar equipment back in Australia. That's right, yeah. Wow, that's hard work. No, I can beat it. No, it's pretty good. I'm gonna give you. I'm gonna give you a round of applause because obviously you're correct, but the original question was about how the Victorians did it. All right. Which probably. I mean, I'm no historian, Michael, but it probably didn't involve lasers. They probably use string line in a similar way. Well, yeah, you're probably right, actually, you would. And also, of course, and this is why I said to the original questioner that I didn't know whether this was a brilliant question or a silly one, because compasses work underground as well. That's right, yeah. So the compasses and sextants and all the other sort of navigational things. But that notion of getting a point on the wall that you're tunneling through and then you can replicate that point again and again and again. A round of applause for Michael. What do you do now, mate? There's not. There's no mining industry left in this country. No, I drive construction equipment now. The same equipment, but above ground. Above ground and a bit more light. That's a cracking answer. Tony is in Ealing. Tony, you've got a victorian angle. Hello, Tony. Yes, basically, Taurians excavated all the ground and then built it from scratch from the bottom up top. And what's it called? Cut and cover. Cut and cover, right. That's the thing, yeah. So basically, obviously, the Victorians didn't have any other way to navigate underground, so they just took all the ground out and built it from there. Put in the. Put in. And it's the same way you build a building, isn't it? You get the foundations in and then build it. Okay, round of applause for you as well. Cracking answers. Actually, that was a lovely question. Although the fact that a compass works underground possibly should have been observed in the original asking. It was bridged too far. That film featuring General Sozobowski, Professor Hale's granddad Jack is in Chertsey. Jack, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Basically, I was talking with my mates about the big asteroid crater that is in Mexico. Apparently, that's what took out the world and, you know, lost. We lost the dinosaurs and that. And I said to them, well, where's the asteroid, then? And they said it all broke up. And I said, well, why is there a six mile crater there in Mexico, then if it all broke up? Were you stoned at the time? No, it just sounds like that kind of late night conversation about what happened to the asteroid. No. Are you sure? Are you sure, Jack? There's not yet. No one's. No one's. No one's taking notes, mate. Are you sure this was not a conversation that was held shortly before someone went out to buy jelly? No, no. We just have these deep conversations. Deep, man. Yeah. An enormous crater, but there's no asteroid, man. Yeah. Where was it? Where is the asteroid? Where is the asteroid? Well, I mean, it was in the middle of Mexico. And with respect, when. When did the. When did the. When did the asteroid hit the crater? Millions of years ago. So your answer is, how come it hasn't been left there for millions of years? Yeah, why is there not a great big flipping? Had it, you prune. They've been chipping away at it for thousands of years, using it to build temples and stuff. No, I don't believe you. Well, what else is. What else did you think the answer is, then, is it? So you've got an enormous crater caused by an asteroid, but the asteroid isn't there anymore? Answer. Someone's taking the asteroid away, probably in pieces, and it probably broke into loads of pieces when it hit. So why have scientists only worked this out, then, in the last few years that they reckon that this is going to happen? Why didn't that happen? I didn't know how space worked. Did they? Didn't. They didn't know how space work, man. My hairs are like my antennas, James. I need an answer. All right, Jack. I'll see what I can do, mate, but I think I'm pretty close to correct. How long have we got? Two minutes before Sheila gets here. Charles is in Stockport. Charles, can I ask you an odd question? You always do, and I've probably asked you this before. Why are we so popular in Stockport? I get half a dozen emails a day. I got Dave in Stockport, one of my most regular emailers, and I get. I probably would probably get three or four calls a day now from Stockport. They don't all get on, of course, but doing something in Stockport. I'm not actually in Stockport. Don't spoil it. Don't spoil it. Which is. Glossip. Gloss. I know Glossip as well. I don't know. My godmother lives in stockpile. I wonder if that's linked. I wonder if she's been spreading the word. Anyway, question or answer? It's an answer to the planet getting heavier, which it doesn't with humans, because you can't create or destroy matter other than with a sort of immune system nuclear reaction. So everything else is chemical reactions. So humans and all other animals and so on are made out of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and so on. And that had to come from somewhere. It's come from the earth, trees, whatever. And carbon dioxide in the air. So the overall mass remains the same. It's chemistry in it. Yeah, yeah. Qualifications today? Level chemistry. Boom. Well, that'll do. And of course it's got to be true, otherwise you'd be creating something out of nothing, wouldn't you, if the mass went up. So we are all made of the same elements that everything else is made of. It's just, you know, chemistry. Right, yeah. Give Charles a round of applause. Quick, before my ignorance becomes too clear. 30 seconds left. Michael, quickly. Hello, James. Hello. The answer to the asteroid question quickly is the, due to the forces of the impact and energies released on the impact and the speed and the pressure, essentially stone or whatever, the content of the asteroids, where they. They were just evaporating. Boom. It exploded on impact. Round of applause. There you go. That'll do. Either that or the Incas took it all away to build temples. That's it from me for another day. We do it all again tomorrow. From ten. I'm James O'Brien, this is LBC. Here is Sheila Fogarty. Thank you. Rhymed. Thanks very much, James. Later on from three, a new global report suggests children of immigrants are more likely to get a degree than others. Is this borne out by your experience? And why might it be? At two, on the sports directometer of victorian working practices? Where do you put timing with a stopwatch? How long someone is on the loo tube? Drivers are going on strike about this from nine tonight and after the news at one. We're going nuclear after all. It's an important upgrade of our energy supplies for the next 60 years. This is a very poor use of money and that a better future for Britain would be to go down a clean energy route. Hinckley point nuclear power station gets the go ahead. But is it something that you support?