What makes you a morning person?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we begin our weekly journey into the unknown. Although there have been quite a few mystery hours this week, albeit that we only really tackled one question, the way it works is this. If you have a question bubbling away in the back of your brain to which you know there must be an answer, or you're fairly sure there must be an answer, but you've not manage to find out what it is, give us a call. Someone else listening will know the answer and you need to know the answer. If you ring in with an answer, you can't look anything up. That's really the only rule we've got left on mystery. All the other attempts at formalizing and properly regulating this hour of fun together have fallen by the wayside over the years. I just don't like. Because it's a celebration of illumination, education, knowledge, wherever you got it. You might have got it watching telly last night, or you might have got it as a PhD student on that very specific field of academic expertise. So if you have a who, why, what, where, when, whither, wherefore, and even the occasional whence, give me a call. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Don't be boring, okay? And that is kind of tough to police because it's highly unlikely that you'd ring in with a question that you genuinely considered to be boring, although stranger things have happened, frankly. And don't be repetitious, but of course it's impossible for you to police that, because how are you going to know whether or not it's a question we answered on a show that you weren't listening to. But still, I like to mention it every week in the forlorn hope that somehow, by a process of kind of collective consciousness, we'll manage to police against boredom and repetition together. We probably won't. That's it. I think if you hear someone ask a question that you know the answer to, you have to bring in or your radio will melt. And if you. You're not allowed to look anything up, either in reference books or search engines, obviously it makes a mockery of the whole exercise, the whole adventure. And, oh, the rewards in place include a mystery out. Round of applause. Which used to be the most sought after accolade in the history of british radio, but has now been usurped by a Ray Liotta. And if you weren't listening, earlier this week we gave out one of my favorite lady if not the favorite Ray Liotter of all time, a Ray Liotta is reserved because Steve Allen, you remember him, I told you about him yesterday, invented YouTube. Steve Allen, my colleague on the, on the early breakfast show here at LBC with you every morning from four, he, when he interviewed Ray Liotta, the man who provides the voice in field of dreams, saying, if you build it, he will come. When he interviewed Ray Liotta, Steve very kindly got Ray Liotta to record for us the motto of this whole program, not just mystery hour, which is, if you build it, they will come. If you get the question right and the treatment right, then you will get people ringing in with astonishing stories and astonishing insights. And we prove that on an almost daily basis. So we've got actual Ray Liotta saying the adapted words of our actual catchphrase from the actual film field of dreams. And I'll play that to you. Earlier this week, we were talking about zoos and animals in captivity, and we took a call from a chap called Will, who mentioned that he was a co founder of the Born Free foundation. And my weird kind of memory based brain just twitched a bit. And I thought, that's Virginia McKenna and Bill Travers, that they set up the born Free foundation. And I just somewhere filed away that their son was called Will Travers. And it was him on the line ringing in cold on a conversation about zoos, when him and his parents run ran, his late father and his mum ran the Born Free foundation. And I knew, because I loved this film as a kid, that they were in Ring of bright Water, the film about the otter based on Gavin Maxwell's book. So we had a ray Lee otter with an otter connection. Well, I blooming well thought it was brilliant, honestly. Eight minutes after twelve. Let's get mystery hour up and running. Martin is in Bexley Heath. Question or answer? Martin. Hi, James. Got a question for you. Good man. Let's go planet. Been watching blue planet and all that, and I was just wondering if all the dolphins can all speak the same language or squeak the same language, I should say. So. You mean if a dolphin got tried, transported from the great barrier Reef to the. To the. To the coast just off Scotland, would they understand each other? Would they understand each other? Why, why specifically dolphins? I mean, why not cats and dogs communicates like that, you know? You know, they're clever, they got like language, you know, you hear different clicks and sweets and all that. There must be something more to it than just barking, you know? Yeah. Is it a unit? Universal language of dolphins, a language of some sort. And I'm just wondering if I have. So you're not, you're not, you're not asking about. Are you asking about regional accents as well or just about. Yeah. All right. Well, no, it's a good question. So, I mean, I just want to clarify it. If you caught two dolphins. Yeah. One from the side of Australia and one from the side of Skye, and you, would they be making the same noises if they were the same breed, understand each other? Yeah. Well, I don't know that anyone can answer that unless they're actually a dolphin. All you can do is hear the clicks and analyze them as. As carefully as possible and identify whether or not they're the same. No. Or not. I don't know. I don't know. One click. Mind means something else in Scotland as it does in Australia, you know? You're on. All right. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Let's wait and see. I mean, there you go. This is mischievous, mopping up David Attenborough's leftovers. Questions prompted by watching blue planet two that possibly the great naturalist won't be addressing directly himself. Nine minutes after twelve, the dolphins will speak the same language. Matt is in reading. Matt, question or answer? I've got a question. Please carry on, Matt. Why, when we see something that makes us shocked or startled, do we raise our hands to our mouths? Is it the same reason why we cover our mouths when we yawn? I think there's something rude about a wide open mouth. So what you're actually doing is covering the gaping maw caused by your gasp. You're not using the hand as a reaction to the shock, you're using it as a camouflage of the mouth's reaction to the shock. I hear what you're saying. Yes. Good. I'm on the radio. What always strikes me a staple watch and our Saturday evening is you've been framed. Yes. With me and the family. And every time someone falls off a skateboard, we all do the same thing. Yes. And you almost can't stop your hand moving. If I yawn, I think I make a more conscious effort to put my hand in front of my mouth. However, if I'm shocked, it's a. It's a real. The arm goes as quickly as the mouth, if that makes sense. Yeah, yeah, you're on. All right, I'll find out. I like it. We also love you've been framed. It's an underrated pleasure, isn't it? A show that the whole family can watch together. It's fantastic. And I must say that Mister Harry Hill has reinvigorated it for us, our family. He's elevated it to a whole new level. May I inquire whether misses Matt likes it? Yes. Yeah, very much. She's got a bit of a secret where she likes to laugh at old people falling over. Fair enough. You would hate, hate to be said live on radio. No. Well it's a good job you didn't then. Because me and the kids really love you've been framed. And misses O'Brien pretends that she doesn't like it. But she also delights in other people's physical misfortunes. So often catch her cackling while pretending that she wasn't watching it at all. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Dolphins and mouth covering. Why do we raise our hand? Why do we cover our mouths when we're shocked? Why do we raise our hands to our mouth when we're shocked? And he's right, isn't it? It is a reflex. It's different from yawning. So if I did something really shocking now, you'd go? You're not. Yeah, I like that question. Mia is in Chelsea. Mia, question or answer? Question please James, carry on. Mia. What? Do all mammals itch? And if they do, why? Well you can't. I mean I don't know if they all do but I think so, yeah, I do as well but. And why is easy. Why? What? Why? What provokes an itch? Well you are. Ideally you'll be killing a potential parasite that has landed on your skin for 1 second in one place and another second. Yeah. Well you know it's complicated evolutionarily speaking. But it could be a flea or a mosquito that might be giving you malaria. So we have sensors in our skin that tell us that there's something has landed on us and we then move our fingers towards that area to scratch and ideally kill the potential parasite. God I'm good. But I think it's only mammals. Well yeah, possibly. No fish, no birds. Birds? No reptiles? I don't know. That's not what you are. I mean birds probably itch a bit. Don't they use their beak to have a good scratch? I don't think so. Well I can only allow you one question. Which is whether mammals itch. And if so, why so? I didn't. I didn't say what do all mammals it? You most certainly did madam. Do. Do all mammals itch was my question. Yes. And why? And why? Yeah, that's two questions. I'm surprised you got through. So what are we gonna do it. What do you have, people? Let's. Let's. Let's do the why, shall we? Okay. Let's do the why. Yeah, why. Why do we itch? Because my theory could be correct, but I made it up on the spot, so it be very fair. Yes. Thank you, Mia. Why do you want to know? Why do I want to know? There's an echo. Because sometimes you get an itch that is gone in a minute and an hour later, somewhere completely different, it's gone immediately. Yes, you're right. They're all different kinds of itches. And I don't know whether this is a sign of encroaching middle age, but there are some scratches that men in particular can do that don't address itches, but are just supremely pleasurable. But possibly we'll save that for another day. 1213 is the time. Lee is in harrow. Lee, question or answer? Answer. Dolphins. Really? Yeah. So my partner used to work at SeaWorld in Miami. And so just to give you basically telecom, the whale, when it was brought into SeaWorld, the. It was bullied. She was bullied violently by the other killer whales because of the dialect of which he's completely separate animal with a completely separate level of clicks and pitch and tone. And whales are known to have that level of communication. They can differentiate between different sounds. And so it's a yes and no, as I told your researcher, because. Because dolphins are the same. So they're communicating almost the exact same pattern, obviously just being a different type of mammal, but it's a yes or no answer. So yes, they can differentiate, but no, because obviously I'm talking about whales, but it's the same difference. You lost me a bit, to be honest. Where did I lose you? I'm not sure. That's the embarrassing bit. I'll tell you, you lost me when you moved from Wales to dolphins. Well, they're essentially the same animal, except one's a little bit larger, but they're essentially the same. They communicate in the same manner wherever they were in the world. They'd have the same range of noise? No, no, they would. They would have different pictures for different. Different groups. So different pods of dolphins would communicate just as different groups of different pods of orcas would communicate differently. Right. So it's no. The answer is no. They don't all speak the same language. Yeah, that's correct. Ah, finally we got there qualifications. My partner worked at Seaworld. That's pretty good. See, world got into quite a bit of bother. What does your partner do now? She's a teacher now. Fantastic. Teaching humans. Not. Not fish, teaching humans. Yeah, she teaches me a lot and she calls me a chimp all the time. So there you go. Wow. Sweet. Keep your pet names to yourself, mate. This is a family program. Round of applause for Lee. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC Dolphins. We're done. Why do you raise your mouth, your hand to your mouth, when you are in a state of shock? And why do mammals itch? A proper answer to that question. Not my made up. 120 minutes after twelve is the time, the number you need if you have a question, or indeed you can answer any of the questions that are already on the board, is zero. 345-606-0973 t is in Hendon. T. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. T. Is there any biological, chemical difference between people who are morning people and people who are evening people? You mean does the time of day at which you're born have any biological. What then? People who can wake up in the morning and concentrate and. Oh, I love this morning. I love this question. Some people find it really, really hard to get out of bed in the mornings and other people find it really easy. I find it almost impossible. We'd never get along. And I can't work in the evening. No, I'm much better in the evening. There you go. And misses O'Brien is like you. And of my two children, one is like me and one is like her. So there's nothing in the DNA. One of one of my daughters, miserable as sin in the morning. That's an absolute nightmare. You have to practically shovel her out of the house. The other one, bright eyed, bushy tail bouncing around the sitting room. That's me. Yeah. I love this question. Is there any kind of biological or chemical explanation? There must be. It must have something to do with the chemicals that you're producing in your sleep, mustn't it? I think so. Why are you laughing at your own question while asking it? It's undermining the quality of the question. Tea? I'm just pleased that you think it's a good one. Good answer. Well, we'll find out for you. Is there a kind of chemical or biological difference between people who are morning people, like tea, or people who are a little more nocturnal, like me? You're supposed to. When you do this for a living, you're supposed to. Everyone's supposed to aspire to doing the breakfast show because the breakfast show historically has the biggest audience. The biggest audience comes with the biggest pay packet. In many ways, thank God Nick's not going anywhere for the foreseeable future. But in many ways, it's my worst nightmare. I could not. I struggle getting out of bed at 07:00 in the morning. Imagine having to get out at five. Just unbelievable. Whereas misses O'Brien, she could do it with her eyes shut. Well, obviously she couldn't do with her eyes shut, because then I wouldn't know she'd woken up. 22 minutes after twelve is the time Daniel's in. Thorough. Daniel, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Carry on. Why do petrol stations charge a decimal per litre of petrol? That is not legal tender in the UK. Right. Did Ava put this guy through? It was you. Because Ava's never done mystery out before, so I was going to give her a free pass. We have two rules on mystery don't be boring and don't ask questions about motoring. Don't repeat yourself. You've just ticked both boxes. Daniel. When was it repeated? No, it's not repetition. There's three rules, but we have actually done this one before. Anyway, back in the midst of time. But I can't hold that against you. I can't believe that you spoke to a professional radio producer with this question. And drawing on her years of experience as a producer on this award winning program. Multi award winning program, she put you through. What was the question again? I nearly nodded off. Go on. Well, why does a liter of petrol charge 119.9, for example, when the 0.9 is not legal tender? Yeah, because the way that the thing works, it means you can see the small fluctuations in the price of a litre of petrol. But the way that the pump works, it's never going to end on a. On a fraction that can't be paid. Well, if you chop up with 21 litres or then it won't be. Really? You're really not talking me down from my position of this being a really boring question. The only time will be ten or 20 litres and not so much 22 litres when it will be so much pounds point an illegal tender. This is going from bad to worse, Daniel. Oh, come on. No, you come on. I've spent years turning this program into a carefully honed, cultivated jewel on british radio and you're just coming along and weeing all over it. I thought it was a good question, but that's not the point. Can you think of anything else? Okay, here you go. Imagine if vodka, right, was advertised per unit price. You see that story we were talking about? 50 pence a unit. So that means that bottle of vodka which has got 28 units in it, is going to cost 14 pounds. Right. Right. It's. Now I'm putting it up to 14.99. What am I charging per unit? Well, yeah, okay, get it. So per unit, I'm charging you a sum of money. That is not legal tender. It's just where they've put the division. It's where they've done the dividing. But you're not advertising the per liter of per so much or. No, no, but. But I could do conceivably if you were going to come to my petrol station, because it was 0.3 pence cheaper per unit than the petrol station over the road. I'd advertise it in that way. Give me a round of applause, tell you, treat yourself, mate. Pop to Greg's for lunch. That'd be my advice. It's 1225 is the time James is in Glasgow. James, question or answer? Question, please. Come on then. If we live in the living room, we bathe in the bathroom and we go to bed in the bedroom. What's the etymology of kitchen? It will come from the Latin. Right. Cocina. I was thinking, ah. I thought it may have been french or Latin. It's probably a little bit of both. French. Its latinate roots are much clearer and more common than the english one. But. But I don't know. I mean, I'm pretty sure cosine is chick chicken is kitchen, the other bits a bit of a red herring, because some people call it the drawing room or some people call it the lounge. This scholarly in Scotland? No, the scullery is next to the kitchen, isn't it? That's where you do the washing up and stuff. The kitchen is where you prepare the food, I think. But I mean, I don't think it's a massive mystery, is what I'm saying. The kitchen is that. Does that answer your question? It comes from the latin cocina, which is also where the french word cuisine. I've answered your question. You can't. I mean, I don't need a round of applause, I've got them coming out my ears. But it's a bit of an odd. It's a bit of an odd, yeah. Response. I don't know if Cosina the right word for. I'm gonna leave it on the board, actually. What's that? What's the etymology of kitchen? I like that. Has he gone? No, I'm here. All right. I was worried for a minute. No, it's fine, I'll put it. So the question is etymology. A kitchen, that the bathroom, living room, bedroom. Bit was a bit of a red herring. Yeah, all right, you're on. Yeah, I like that. I like it. We're only allowed one etymology a week, though, and we're only allowed one origin of a phrase. Question a week. 1227 is the time ed is in Plymouth. Ed. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Bring it on. So it's the covering of mouth and shock question. Oh, yes. Oh, well done. So when you are. If you were just completely shocked, you would normally just scream or something. So actually covering your mouth is a secondary reaction to prevent yourself from verbalizing it. And probably the evolutionary thing would be to prevent from panicking people. So you're preventing yourself from screaming or swearing at a very high volume that the hand is inexorably drawn up towards the orifice whence that exclamation would emerge. Yeah, absolutely. Cool. That'll do. And it does then evolve into a reflex. Yes, exactly. Qualifications? I used to play a lot of poker when I was younger, so I did lots of research on body language. Really? Yeah. Why did you stop playing lots of poker? Were you not very good? No, I just. I'm a mature student at university now, so I just don't have time. Fair enough. How long have you listened to the program, if you don't mind me asking? About three years. You might not remember, I used to have a colleague called Jones, the engineer. Do you remember him? No. He left LBC to go off and be a poker player. Oh, wow. And he's doing really well. He's in Vegas at the moment. I saw a picture of me, had loads of chips. Oh, good thing. Yeah. I thought you'd like that. Round of applause, Fred. That works for me. I know he's not a biologist or anything like that, but that makes sense. It's the hand is to come cover the mouth in a reflex way so that you don't communicate to the rest of the herd, as it were, the rest of the pack, your shock or fear, because it would spread like wildfire. It's contagious. 29 minutes after twelve is the. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions that still need answers. Where does the word kitchen come from? I think I might have gone off on a bit of a mad tangent with that latin bit. Why do mammals itch? I have that feeling that you. That you then scrap. And is that it? Is there something else as well? Just those two? Yeah, I thought so. What was the second? Anyway, gotta stop being a bit more professional. I've been doing this for over a decade. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you can answer either of those questions, you know what to do. And if you've got a question of your own, then I can hardly wait to talk to you. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Is there a biological explanation for people who are morning people and people who are evening people? I love this question, not least because my two children fall on either side of this division. Some people can roll out of bed in the morning bright eyed and bushy tailed. Other people have to drag themselves, like me. Why? It must be linked to brain chemistry or sleep release or something like that. I love that question. I forgot to repeat it before the break. So. Zero. 345-606-0973 origin of the word kitchen given that most of the other rooms in the house are fairly self explanatory. Bedroom sitting or drawing room. Drawing is short for withdrawing, by the way. So it's the withdrawing room. It's where you'd go after dinner. Usually the ladies would go to the drawing room after dinner while the chaps stayed around smoking cigars, drinking port, that sort of thing. And the question about mammals and itching. Zero 345-606-0973 Paul is in pillion. Well, that's our second call from pillion this week. I presume you're related to the other person who called in. Afternoon, James. Yeah, that was the wife yesterday. Excellent. Well, question or answer, Paul? That's a question. Carry on. Every day of the year my wife goes swimming in the gulf. That's about 15 minutes down the mountain from where we live. Oh, gorgeous. You're in the Dodecanese? No, we're at the pediatric. It's the pedion mountain, which is halfway between Athens and Thetraniki. It's the ancient home going, yeah, I've got you. Okay, go on. Because I got confused when I was speaking to your wife. I've got a better idea of where you are now. So she goes for a swim every day in the gulf, every day of the year, except when we're snowed in. And at this time of year you get dramatic thunderstorms rolling up the gulf and occasionally you see lightning striking the water. And I'd like to know, I'm screaming for her to get out of the water. I'd like to know how close does the lightning have to be to her swimming to be dangerous? And the gulf is about 30 km wide. I like that? Yeah. So how near to the point of impact, the point of contact do you have to be? Yeah. To get. I mean, this could be used as evidence in an Agatha Christie type case if anything were to happen to your wife in the coming years. You realize that. Paul, I've just blown airplanes. I have to think of something else. I'll put the question on the board. I like that a lot. Can you and your wife give me a week or two before you ring in again? Do you mind? We like stalking you. No, I just get so jealous. I just. The idea of you. I love Greece. I love Greece almost as much as I love my own country. But I just. The idea of having made the decision to move there and live there, and it ought to be going so swimmingly. You just make me sick with envy, mate. To be honest, it's not as easy as you might think it is sometimes here. No, I'm sure it isn't. And you mentioning getting snowed in, of course, is a reminder to people who have only ever summered there that Greece is a property varied climate. But how are you going on with the lingo? I'm okay. The wife is terrific because she teaches what? Languages? So she's had to kind of get that part of her brain up to speed before you even moved there. And you're getting on all right. I bet you can't write it, though, can you? She can. Really? But I wasn't talking about her. I was talking about you. Pavlovs. Yeah, yeah. No, I passed all questions about the language. Very wise. Because I want to get home there at some point in the distant future. My friend Alex is greek. Says you absolutely need a greek person on the ground. Unless you're completely fluent, completely reading and writing. And I'm sure he's right. You're very lucky. Thank you, Paul. That's a lovely question. How near to the point of impact do you have to be if lightning strikes the sea in which you swim to be safe? Or how far away do you have to be to be safe? How near do you have to be to be. To be toast? Lauren is in Ealink. Lauren, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So I can answer both the sleeping question and the itching question. That's incredibly annoying because I have a massive preference on which one I'd like you to answer. But you're only allowed to answer which other one you cleared with the producer, which was the itching. Okay, yes. Yes, it was itching. I'd be so cross if we hit 01:00 without an answer to the sleeping question. But there we go. I've made my bed, I'm going to lie on it. No, you got to do the itching. Rules are rules. Itching rule the rules. Okay. So there's two sort of reasons why mammals may itch. And the first one is, for example, if you get an injury, you need to have your immune cells to get to that injury to fix it. And so there's chemical called histamine that encourages your blood to flow to that area. And the side effect of that is itching. It's not evolution. Really. Useful. Exactly. Apart from alerting you to the fact there's something wrong. So essentially you've got. You've got the sense. What's it called, the sensors. What's the word for sensors in your skin, anyway? That you've got it there for a very, very good reason. And a side effect of its presence in your body is itching. Yes. And then the other way that you can have itching is certain bugs, bacteria, viruses, cause you to itch. But the fact that, for example, if it was a skin condition, you itch the skin, you can cause the skin to break down and actually release the material that can be caught by others. So it's actually a way of the bug essentially spreading itself. Oh. Through hacking your body. Good lord, you cheered me right up. That's a beautiful answer. What are your qualifications? So I did a biochemistry degree. Can I ask how old you are? Yeah, I'm 24. 24. At what age do people start prefacing every sentence they utter with the word so? I have no idea. I've noticed it a lot among younger people, but utterly absent among older people. Something has happened in the educational system, which means that when you answer a good question, you start by saying, so I. Anyway, round of applause for Lauren. Biochemistry put to perfect use. I'm going to be cross if we don't get an answer to the sleep question, though. Alan is in Stevenage. Alan, question or answer? So I've got a question for you. Go on, get on with it. Well, how did four. I weigh 25 stone. Okay. Yeah. And four need to stay out of Gregg's. Yeah, tell me about it. Four guys managed to pick me up using just the tips of their fingers. Yes. I can tell you what happened. Now. We used to do this at school. How does it work? What's going on? Yeah, because you're thinking the fingers should break under the weight of 25 stone. They tried it first of all, just normally, and I did, bud, that not a cheek came off the chair. They held their hand above my head. Yeah, like 5 seconds. Did it again. And I went right up to the ceiling straight away. I just freaked everyone out. No one knows what was going on. You do it on a chair, don't you? Yeah, on a dining room. A normal dining room chair. So two. Two lots went under my knees and two lots went under my armpits. Yeah. And literally just the tips of their fingers. And they lifted you up with the greatest of ease when theoretically, even if you divided 25 stone by four, they'd each be lifting enough to make you wonder how the hell they did it with a single finger. Exactly. Yeah, we did. We used to at school, during prep, whenever the supervisor wasn't there. Ever turn. It wasn't. It works and I. God knows why. It is brilliant. It's a great trick. You can people listening to try it at home, but, you know, be safe. I'll try and get an answer to that. What's going on? I mean, it must just be physics or something. It can't be magic. 034-5606 laugh at me. Of course it can't be magic. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. You all know what Alan's talking about. It's a great trick. It's a great party trick. Everyone's been there at some point, but obviously Alan's discovered it quite late in life. What's going on? How can four single fingers, one under each armpit, one under each kneecap or thereabouts or the thigh, and then one, two, three, go. And then all four of you move up at the same time and you can lift a 25 stone man. Even four relatively slight humans could lift. Alan, what's going on? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you know the answer. Another Allen from Alan in Stevenage to Alan in the Wirral. Or on the Wirral, to be precise. Alan, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, sir. Yeah. The biology question. About sleep. Oh, yes. Not so much about sleep, about early birds. Late birds. You got it? Yes. And night owls. Indeed. Melatonin. Go on. See, it sounds irish. Oh, yeah. Mister. And misses Tony. Mel. Don't laugh at your own jokes, James. It's a very bad look. Carry on. Melatonin. I know what that is. One of my worst traits, James. Yes, but we've all been there. But you're in good company. Somebody has to. Alan. That's what I always say to myself. So I take melatonin. You can't get it in this country very easily, but I take it as a. I got something in America and I take it as a guard against jet lag. So it's. You need to explain why it affects my early morning. Are you taking it as liquid or solid? I've got some tablets. I haven't taken it for years. I only went to Greece this summer. I didn't get jet lag. But we've got it. I've got it in my bedroom somewhere. In the bedroom? Well, whether you're working during the day in natural light or artificial light, the light that your eyes collect is transferred to the brain by the optic nerves, to the pineal gland, and the pineal gland is where the hormone melatonin is created to regulate your sleep wake cycle. So why then would two people who've been like, for example, my wife and I, if we've spent the whole day together and the night together, when we wake up in the morning, she can bounce out of bed and I'm welded to it? Yeah, well, yeah, that's the only thing, a convention, because there must be another. Yeah. Come on, don't laugh. I'm not, mate. I love you. I love your honesty. You'd never go anywhere in politics. You'd never get nowhere in politics. I just don't know. That's missing, isn't it? No intention. I have no intention. I'm glad to hear it. You see, well, the only answer I can give to that is we're all different. Yeah. I'm going to give you a round of applause because you're right. I've got your qualification. Qualification? Yeah. Well, I was 47. I was told I was going blind. Yeah. 22 years later, I'm completely blind. And over the course of that time, as my sights faded away, I've become a night bird. I'm desperate to sleep during the day and I'm wide awake during the night. I'm currently on the course of melatonin in an attempt to sleep at night and be awake in the day. Oh, well, good luck with that. Makes perfect sense. Thank you, James. Well, my pleasure. Thank you for your insights. Hard won though they were, I hope it works, the melatonin. If it's any consolation, I know a much younger person than you who was finding it absolutely impossible, to the point where they went to the doctors and he's been put on melatonin as well, and it's worked a treat. So let's hope it does for Alan. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. How does that thing work when four people were using just a single finger each can lift up a whole man, a whole person sitting in a chair. I'd love to know that. We used to do it at school. Alan. Alan did it this weekend and he's still reeling in shock. Zero. 345-606-0973 we could probably expand on the other Alan Allen in the Wirral's question about sleeping and why. Some people are bright eyed and bushy tailed in the morning and other people are quite the opposite. I think the phrase circadian rhythms is going to pop up in answer to that question. Is that it? Have we got anything else, Axel? Have you kept it? Have you kept a list this week or have you forgotten again? Lifting, sleeping. Oh, and the what? Oh, and the origin of the word kitchen. Yeah, well done. See? 1251 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer either any of those three questions, the one about lifting, the one about sleeping, the one about kitchens, or indeed, if you're quick, if you've got a question of your own. Oh, no. And the lightning as well. Am I doing everything myself this week? How far away for how big an area of sea? If a lightning bolt hits the sea, how fatal. How far is the fatal area? You know, look, lightning, sea, death. Just join them together and give me an answer on zero. 345-606-0973 Reid is in Streatham Reed. Question or answer? Question, please. Put me on my misery. Go on. Sometimes when you wash dishes by hand or dishwasher, there's this kind of horrible smell that's left after. I cannot describe it. A wet dog smell, a bit eggy. And I want to know. Not eggy. It's more like a doggy kind of smell. I don't know what it is. Have you got a dog? I have a dog, but it's got nothing to do with my dog. Are you sure? In restaurants. 100%. She's got her own bowl, her own sponge. I've changed. All right, mate? I was only asking. Flipping egg. Sorry, I didn't mean to offend you or anything. You've got a clean dog, that's clear. Very, very, very. All right? Yeah. Do you really not know? What? Do you really not know the answer to this? I have no idea. Yeah, that makes sense. And it's made me paranoid, so I have to keep smelling glass and stuff before drains. It's just the drains, mate. But why does it happen all the time, then? Why does it? Because you've got. You've got a blockage in your drain, you've got you've got a bit of. I mean, there's no nice way of saying this, but you've got some gunk in your drain and when the water goes down, it kind of reinvigorates it and it wafts back up the pipes, comes out the dishwasher or comes out the sink. Properly committed listeners, by which I mean basically just Gary Burton. I think he's the only one who will remember because he sent me a tweet asking me about this, will remember that a couple of weeks on mystery hour, I confessed to having a similar problem to you and I have now solved it. They didn't know the answer either. Yeah, they do. They do. There's just nothing in it for them. So what you need to do, you go to Robert Dyess. Should be sponsored. Are we looking into getting this show sponsored by. Go to Robert Dyers and get some bathroom blocker. You might. I mean, you could get sodium peroxide, but because of all these acid attacks, I think you have to go through security now to get that and you put it down your kitchen sink and if it hasn't gone away, then. Then it's something to do with your dishwasher waste pipe, but you've just got bad drains. God, this is award winning stuff, this. That's it. Do you feel better now to know it's your drains? And also, obviously. Yeah. Thank you very, very much. Ask me how I fixed my problem. How do you fix yours? I got down on my hands and knees like a bloodhound because I got back the other day and the smell was particularly pungent. It was particularly ripe. And it's on the list of things that misses O'Brien is expecting me to do, Reid. So, you know, there's no escape once it's on that list. So I'm on my hands and knees crawling around the kitchen and I tracked the smell to a pipe in the back of a cupboard where we used to keep our washing machine, but which is now just a cupboard. Are you still with me? Yeah. And I got my nose right up to the pipe because it still had the U bend attached from where the washing machine used to be. And there's a shelf there now. So we put a shelf in after we took the washing machine out, so I unscrewed the shelf so that I could get a proper bit of action on the U bend. The U bend came off in my hand. The smell increased. I got my nose right up to the pipe, had a good whiff and it was completely coming from there. So do you know what I did, tell me. I got one of my daughter's hair bands and a bit of cling film and I made a kind of improvised lid for the pipe and we haven't had a problem since. James, I love you. Thank you, Reid. I love you too. Round of applause. I think for both of us. Glenn is in Basildon. Glenn, question or answer? Hello, dude, I've got an answer for you. Bring it on, Glenn. Kitchens. Local kitchens, yes. Basically, we cook in the kitchen, because the Anglo Saxon used to cook on Kuchen. It basically sold English for cooking place. So that will come from somewhere else, though quite possibly related to Latin. Yeah. Cucina. Cu c I n a. In old English, it's kyc en ky. Jelly. Sorry, kyce. And kitchen. Kitchen. So the Romans influencing the Germans. Influencing the angles. Not necessarily. Don't get all european languages. Got a common ancestry. Indo European. So sometimes words to do with divinity and divine, which is Latin itself. You often find that in Hindi as well. Are you still studying? Because I think last time we spoke, you'd kind of put it on the shelf for a while. Yeah, well, I'm on the cusp, literally. I don't know. I'm just about to qualify as a personal trainer, but at the moment I'm not doing that so much. I do it from time to time, a babble. And I've got a bit of spare time. Love a personal trainer. Everyone should have a personal trainer with a sideline in old English. Yeah. I mean it. I love it. No, but I love. That's the definition of a renaissance man, you know. What can you do? Well, I can teach you how to do reps and improve your cardiovascular condition. Or we could have a chat about Berwolf. Mike, if you go for a long jogging chain mail, that'll do it. A long jogging chain mail. Fantastic. Round of applause for Glenn. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And good luck with the new career mate as well. Seriously. V is in Abbot's Langley. V, what would you like to say? That's an answer to the chair question about lifting up the chap on the chair. Yeah. Now, it's. It's scientific, but more of a probably spiritual science, so hopefully you'll accept it. Yeah. Well, Beth is nodding her head encouragingly, so I have to occasionally allow her to steer the program because I used to do this. Yeah, go on. So, the seven chakras in a human body. Oh, boy. Man or female? Yeah. So when you put the hands above the head in the formation, you're transferring the energy from the human body into those hands ever so temporarily. And then you have to quickly put the fingers into the positions which were under the knees or the. Under the armpits. And when you lift all together, you can lift the human body. It's all to do with energy transfer. It's more of a spiritual energy. You serious? I was told this. I've practiced it. I've done it. It does work. It does work. I know it does. But have we got any other answers? I can't give a round of applause for Chuck late in the day. I might cheekily get a round of applause otherwise you can leave it on for next week, maybe. I don't know. I'm gonna let Judge compelled to ring. Yeah, I'm gonna. I'm now gonna both. I'm gonna now both allow reach a decision on whether or not you get a round of applause or not. And I'm gonna pitch a new television idea to channel five. Judge Sheila, what do you think, Judge Sheila? Oh, God. I think it's probably more to do with people's core strength than their chakras and the position they put themselves in when they're being lifted. Do that. Laugh again, Pete. I even sound like a strictly judge when I say it could be both. I mean, the core, the chakra and the core strength could be speakers. It's all about focusing and directing it. I'm going, should we give him a round of applause, though? He's a good. He's a good egg. Thank you. Well done, Vy. That's pretty much it for another day. Thomas in Plymouth. Can you do it in 10 seconds? I can very much try for you, James. Go on then, mate with Seawater. You've got CTD when you're measuring salinity of water, and one of them is conductivity because it isn't very conductive at all. So you need to be very, very close to the lightning strike for it to be able to harm you. As in what, a meter? A meter or two? Yeah. You're going to have to be very, very close because you're not conductive as a person. Your answer is going to go. You're on qualifications. I did a year of ocean science and marine conservation at university. What did you switch to? Civil engineering as you do? Round of applause, Thomas, if you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.