Do you get fat insects?

With James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time. And the fact that we didn't actually take any calls on the subject of Jeremy Corbyn has not prevented any of Jeremy Corbyn's core support from tweeting furiously about the tough time Jeremy Corbyn has been given by callers to the program. Oh, how relieving it feels to move on to entirely different territory. Now, as you just gathered from the portentous voiceover, it is now time for mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio. If you have a question or a mystery for the purposes of this conversation, and you know there must be an answer to it, but you don't know what the answer is, ring me now. Ask the question. Somebody else listening will provide you with an answer. You are not allowed to look stuff up, obviously, if you're thinking of trying to answer any questions. And apart from repetition and dullness, which are very much my lookout, that's pretty much it. The mystery out, as in, that's it. That's how it works. If you're already familiar with the format, give me a ring now. There are phone lines free zero 345-606-0973 if you're unfamiliar with it, think of those newspaper and magazine features wherein a reader will submit a question along the lines of, what's the origin of that? Why do we do that? Where does that come from? Who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence? And even the occasional wherefore art thou? And somebody else will know the answer. That's how it works. When I say dullness, two ways of approaching that. The first is probably unfair, which is a very personal prejudice against motoring questions, although that's changing now. Oh, I haven't told you. This may not be of major interest to people who've been listening to this program for a short amount of time, but my petrol head gene is non existent. I only learned to drive when misses O'Brien was pregnant with our first child on the. In retrospect, perfectly reasonable grounds that she was not prepared to drive herself to the labour ward herself. So I managed to get my licence at the age of. She's 1347 32 34. In my early to mid thirties, I managed to get my license just in time to drive misses O'Brien to the labour ward. It means that unlike most men of my class and generation. Or generation and class, no, unlike most men, I don't really get cars. I occasionally see one and I think, oh, that's nice. I do like that. And then it turns out to be a Ford Capri. So I don't move with the times either, however, and I've always mocked people that do, however, spend a lot of time in Norfolk as a family. And the other day we came back via a completely different route. And for the first time in my life, I understood why people have those conversations. I really wanted to talk to someone. I'll tell you who I wanted to talk to. Actually, no, I can't really reveal that. Someone in the royal household who regularly makes the journey to Sandringham. I know, and I've always presumed that they would, because they don't use helicopters, because that would be bad optics, but I've always presumed that they would, because they do that journey so often. Sometimes the queen gets the train. They've got a special gate at King's Lynn station. Did you know that? For the queen, do you know what they call it? The queen's gate. And there is a sort of suspicion in my mind that if anyone knows any secret routes or clever cuts to get to that part of the country, it would be the royal family and their close protection officers. So I was really looking forward to having that conversation. And then I realized what I was looking forward to. The conversation about routes. Oh, what route did you take? Oh, I took the a 671. And what's the wife drive? Vauxhall Nova, that kind of thing. The kind of person who has a selection of multi coloured biros in the top pocket of their shirt with the clips pointing outwards. I had become that person, I realized, and I'd like to apologize to everyone called Colin, to everyone out there who falls into that category, if I may, for having been a little bit previous, because it turns out it can be quite. If I had driven more in my youth, I would understand the interest in alternative routes and what have you. It's a very roundabout way of reminding you that normally I find motoring questions quite dull. I probably still do, but I shouldn't have previously presumed that all motoring questions are dull to all people. The other one is boring. If you're boring, you're listening to the wrong program already, but you're unlikely to get your question on the board. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Is that it? Are we off? Are we going? Are we good? Let's start an e link. Chris, is there question or answer? Chris. Good afternoon, James. How you doing? I'm all good. I do enjoy mystery. Some weeks it's even more welcome than others. And this is definitely one of those weeks. I'm definitely with you on that. And the white chocolate Twix is amazing. Oh, you've had one already? How long have they been around? How long have they been around? Only a few weeks, actually. I only stumbled on it in the local newsagent the other day and I thought, I'm having one of those. I actually bought three because I have a family. But it is. I've not been. Chris, I'm not going to lie to you. I felt sometimes that these newfangled versions of old classic chocolate bars have been a little bit of a fuss about nothing. Your chunky kit kat, you can keep it. Even your white chocolate kit Kat didn't really work for me. But the white chocolate chocolate twix elevated the winner. Oh. Anyway, we digress. What do you want? What have you got? Okay, so my question is, you know the good luck phrase touch wood? Where does that come from? I do. I've always. I think I know that. Okay. I've always presumed. I know I've always presumed. Touching the wood of the cross, Jesus's cross. Okay. But do you know, I've got a feeling we've done this on the program before and that turned out to be wrong, so I shall leave it hanging. What is the origin of the phrase to touch wood? Thank you very much. In the context of good luck. I like that one. Well done. Thank you, Chris. Andy's in Canterbury. Andy, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on, mate. And can insects get fat? Can you actually get a fat insect? I don't mean just big. Obviously, if you keep feeding them, they'll get bigger, but can they get fat? No. What happens? They've got an exoskeleton. They've got an exoskeleton. So they can't get fat, can they? They literally burst. I mean, otherwise what happens to the excess calories? That's. No, no, no. You're allowed one question and one question only. Can an insect get fat? Given that insects have exoskeletons, then they can't get fat because they'd explode. Like Monsieur Creosote. I should have gone with fish. It was the other question that was on the same thing, because I don't know if you get a fat fish either. Well, I might hear from you next week, although, frankly, I'm going to put a warning on your phone line because I don't want to call about fat fish. And there are clothing label called fat fish. Oh, fat face. Can you get in fat? I'll put the question on the board. I'll take an early round of applause just because I feel I need one. But I presume do all insects have an exoskeleton? I think they do. I'm going back to 1988 for this biology lesson, and if they have an exoskeleton, I don't see how they can get fat. The exoskeleton skeleton can expand as they grow. I don't know. All right. No, I'll put it on the board. Fat insects. Oh, Keith, when we start that band, mate, that we're gonna start that kind of latter day stone roses meets primal scream meets daft punk. Yeah. Just need to learn the organ. Why don't we call it the fat insect? It's got a really good ring to it. No. No. All right, back to the drawing board. Jack's in Worcester Park. Jack, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Hello. Is that your question? Good. Well, I think I know the answer to the first question you had. No. Not allowed. No, not allowed. Not allowed. Do I have to choose between one or the other? No, no, no. You've already chosen, by dint of having spoken to Sam or Beth. So we're already over that particular line. Okay, James. Thank you. My question is, if you are a child actor performing in a film which is an 18 plus, say, if you're twelve, are you able to go and watch the premiere of your film? Or do you have to wait, say, six, before you can actually go and see your own film? I don't think that the law applies unless you are selling tickets. So you could. So if you. If you're underage, you can watch. I don't think. I think it would be up to the parent, probably. I mean, I'll put it on the line as well, but I. Because you couldn't get. If you showed an 18 film to your chart, to your twelve year old at home. It's not a crime, is it? You're not going to get prosecuted. Right. But, you know, when they go to premieres. Oh, I know all that. I understand the question, Jack. I'm not stupid. But the point you're asking is, can an underage child watch an 18 film? It doesn't matter whether they're in it or not, does it? In the cinema, then that makes sense. Yeah. Well, then I'm back to my observation about. I think it's only the selling of tickets that's prohibited by law. All right, if you're sure that's the only way. I'm not sure I'm thinking out loud. Jack, come on, man, give me some slack here. Jack. Give me some slack, Jack. But I've also got. I got in about. I can't remember whether it was an 18 or not, but there's. Is it Rooney Mara? Is it. Was she in a big film when she was little or Mara Rooney? I don't know why I'm talking, Jack, I'm just burbling. Now, have you ever had a white twix? A white twix? No. Oh, mate, you gotta get yourself a white chocolate twix. Can children under 18 go to 18 films if they're in them, or ever? Zero, 345-606-0973 can insects get fat? Zero. 345-606-0973 and the origin of the phrase touch would, which we have touched before, but I can't remember the answer, so it counts. James is in Peckham. James, question or answer? I have a question for you, James. Carry on. I wanted to be a lawyer, and for one of my last legal interviews, I went to a big chambers, and in that chambers they had lots of pictures of those courts sketches. Do you know what I mean? Court sketches? Yeah, of course I do, yeah, yeah, courtroom sketches. Now, these all featured Michael Mansfield, the great lawyer in court, making pronouncements. Now, my question. So it was his chambers, presumably. It was, yeah. I didn't get the job, unfortunately. I'm sorry to hear that. His loss, I'm not very good. His loss, yeah. So when you see sometimes in the news, these court sketches of the defendants or the lawyers, these are made in many, many court trials. But what happens to all of them? Well, they're not made for the court, they're only made for the media. Right, okay, so then once they are, you know, it's what I presume, they're the property of the organization. Okay, so do the media send their own court artist or is the court artist employed by the court? I don't know the answer to that. But if they've ended up on Michael Mansfield's wall, then they're obviously buyable, which means they either revert in copyright or ownership to the artist, or they revert to whoever's paying the artist, and you can then buy a copy from them. And the artist is either paid by the media organizations, which seems unlikely to me, because you see the same pictures in various organs, or they're paid centrally through some sort of newspaper fund, which again, seems unlikely, or they're employed by the court, because of course, photographers aren't allowed. So is there an archive, is there a central store? Do you have to contact the drawers? Well, what have you done? This is what I could. Couldn't become a lawyer. What have you done, mate? Now, these are great questions. It's the kind of lawyer I want, asking all the important questions. But I've got a question for you. What? What did you do? What is it you want a picture of? Oh, no, I. No comment. No, I love that question. Because they'd be quite nice. It'd be quite nice collector's items, wouldn't they? Yeah. Just keep. Keep them next to my chaise lodge and my autobiography of Uncle Nigel. There you go. No, I think they'd fit. I think. I think a gallery of criminals would fit very neatly in that little domestic vista. 1214, 1215. Very nearly is the time. What happens to the court drawings? That's a lovely question. I will give a Rayleigh otter to someone if they ring in and they have been a court artist once I've established how many court artists there are. So there's a Rayleigh otter up for grabs today. If you don't know what that is, you might die of excitement between now and 01:00. What happened to the court drawings? Children who are under 18 going to or watching 18 films? The questioner was specific on a child actor being in an 18 film. Would they be allowed to go to the premiere? But I suspect the answer is broader than that. Do insects get fat? And why do we touch wood? What a lovely collection of questions. We'll get some answers up after this. This is LBC calling all 312. 18 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we continue to seek to solve mysteries such as how on earth did Dominic Robb ever get to be secretary of state for Brexit? I will take answers on that. Actually, I don't think I've ever been allowed a question on mystery hour before. How did we end up with the secretary of state for Brexit, who didn't know that the Dover Calais crossing was important to imports and exports? Zero. 345-606-0973 do we ever get fat insects? Why do we touch wood? In pursuit of good luck? Who keeps the court drawings that we often see in our newspapers and 18 plus films. 18 films or ours as they are in America? Ours. Can children go and see them if they're actually in them? I don't think that question is quite as cool as I did at first, because no one's ever been. Can you be prosecuted for showing your twelve year old a 15 movie at home? I don't think you can. It's not that kind of law. I think it's just the selling of tickets that's prohibited, isn't it? Although it begs a whole load of interesting questions. That you're not allowed to buy cigarettes, of course, until you're 16 or over. Is there a law about smoking them? There isn't. So you can't get prosecuted for sparking up at the age of eight, can you? What if your parents allow you to do it at the age of eight? Would you prosecute? You could probably do them for neglect or something like that, but not for a specific crime allowing your child to smoke. And the law regarding drinking alcohol for children is fascinating. In short, there isn't really any laws. It's all about parental discretionary. 20 minutes after twelve. We digress. Horribly. Horribly. Andrea is in Nottingham. Andrea, what would you like to say? I have an answer to your child actor question. Go on. They are definitely allowed to go to premieres, even if they are too young to legally have been allowed to go. However, if they then wanted to go again with their parents, for example, those that are then not allowed. Because you're not allowed to buy a ticket. Because you're not allowed to buy a ticket. Qualifications? I own a child acting agency. My son is also an actor and I have been to a couple of his premieres. Can I ask what you've been to see? All you can tell is what your son's been in. I just. You're very close to getting a Ray Liotta here. I don't know if you realize how important and how big a deal that is. He was in a film last year called Juliet Naked with Rose Byrne and Ethan Hawke, and we've also just filmed another one, but I'm not allowed to say what that is because it's not out yet. Was Juliet naked in 18? It was a 15. And at the time of the premiere he was ten. And he went to the premiere? Yes, he was allowed to go. They left it up to you. It's based on the Nick Hornby novel that, isn't it? It is, yes. Yeah. So they left. It was left up to you, essentially, yes. Absolutely. Yeah. It's. I can't believe I never saw that film. It's the one with Chris O'Dowd in it. Everything Chris O'Dowd touches is magnificent. I really want to see. I'm going to watch that tonight. It's on the box office of the satellite channel. No, that's fine. You can say that. So how do you know that children who star in films are allowed to go to the films, even if they're officially too young. Answer, because my son is a child film star and he went to the premiere of his own film, Juliet, despite being several years younger than 15. Correct. Oh, Andrea, this is a. This is quite a moment, isn't it? Oh, I'm so excited. Imagine what's going to happen when your boy is actually in a film with Ray. Yes. And he's going to be able to say to Ray, hey, I got a Ray Liotta. And Ray Liotta will say, I have no idea what you're talking about. It was some weirdo in a London radio station just asked me to record something. But until that sad day dawns, keep this safe. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, if you. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. You get a round of applause as well. Thank you. Thank you, Andrea. Lovely stuff. 22 minutes after twelve. And a neat reminder of the film. I love it. Sam's infinity. Sam, question. Really? Question or answer the question, James, who put you through? Some lovely lady did. Oh, carry on, then. If it's an imposition, then I can go elsewhere. No, no, no, you carry on, Sam, I don't want to seem rude, but if the question is what I think it is, it's going to be very, very easy to answer. Okay, bring the heat. Come on then, tiger. I'm wondering why they're called ready salted. Chris, I need to know when they've been salted. Yes. You are under 30 years of age. I am. How old are you? 25, sir. Yeah. And if I said to you, Smith's crisps or little blue packet, what would you say? I would have no idea. We're talking about. I'm afraid. So. I'm about to go definitive, my dude. Ready? So crisps used to be sold with a little twist of wax paper in them containing salt, which means you would salt the salt and shake. Sam, the salt. Are you telling me that the salt and shake predated the ready salted crisp? Totes? I innovation in crisp that came after. You're joking me. You thought it was an innovation to sell crisps that were unsalted with a little packet of salt? Why don't they do it with all the other flavoring, then? Genius. Because it started as one bag and then with the bag. It's a terrible phone line. As much as I'm enjoying this high level banter, my answer is absolutely correct. They already salted as opposed to self saltable or salt and shake. And I apologize, Sam, I apologize. That's actually a brilliant question, because it's allowed me to sort of have a bit of fun. Qualifications? Qualifications. I've eaten a lot of crisps over the years. A lot of crisps. One of my favorite brand of crisps. That was my next question. Yeah. Seabrook Northern, a crinkle cut crisp, popular in the north, quite hard to get hold of in the south. You know, you married the right woman when she buys you a box of prawn cocktail crisps by mail order for your birthday. Round of applause for me, please. And the full version this time. Thank you. Thank you. Please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Stephen is in Cyprus. It's not desperately specific, but we're among friends. Stephen, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So, you know, whenever you hear of NASA discovering, for example, that there are indications that there is or was water on such and such planet. Yes. And everybody gets excited about that may mean that there might have been life or there is life. Yes. My question is, isn't it a bit blinkered to assume that just because you need water on Earth to have life, that. No, no, that's not a question. That's not a question, that's an opinion. Is it a bit blinkered? Get me a question. A neat question. I'm getting to. The question is, what am I missing? Why do we assume that just because we need water on Earth, we also need. It's also required on any other. We don't assume it, for a start. I'm sorry if I'm sounding a little bit precious, because the first bit was opinion rather than fact. Why is water taken as the sign of life, the definitive sign of life, by astronomers or astronauts? Yeah, that's what we want to find out. What. Why is water a or the sign of life? Correct. Well phrased, I like that. Thank you. It's why they pay me the big buck. Stephen, thank you very much. Um. 26 minutes after twelve is a time. I like that. Why is water. What is. Because. I mean, just because there's water doesn't mean there's life. In fact, ideally, there isn't any life in the water that you're going to drink, although I bet it's got something to do with oxygen and hydrogen. But I have already made it clear I have no clue, so I should probably stop pontificating. Good job. No one's listening. Colin is in ryslit. Colin, I apologise. Hello, James. I need to apologise. Your program. Thank you, Colin. If only everybody understood that it would save Clive, who is in charge of complaints here at LBC, approximately 3 hours work a day. What would you like to. Is it a question or an answer? Colin? It's a question. I had a graze. And normally when you get a cut or something, the first thing someone says, you better put some proprietary brand of cream on it. Savlon. Savlon, that's the one, yeah. There are other antiseptic creams available, but that's the only proprietary brand I can think of off the top of my head. Carry on. But when I looked at the bottom of the tube, it had an expiry date. Now, I was thinking to myself, this is out of date. So does that mean if you put it on, it hasn't any more antiseptic properties? Superb question. I mean, what happened? Most obviously, what happened to the grade? What happened to the grade? I went and bought some more. So you did, you chucked the out of date stuff because you thought, better safe than sorry? Well, yeah, but when you think about it, you buy such a large tube for small amounts, you really want smaller tubes and you wouldn't waste so much. It's not like preparation h, which you're going to get through at a rate of knots. I mean, there's only an occasional injury, isn't it, your Savlon based scarring? So it's got an expiry date on it? Well, I shall find out for you. It probably, by law, has to have some sort of expiry date on it. Otherwise some rascal will be selling your 50 year old stuff out the back. A laureate, a car boot sale. But does it lose its healing purposes after the expiry date? It's antiseptic qualities. Antiseptic cleaning or whatever. Yeah. No, you're on. Yeah, I like it. If Savlon or antiseptic cream has got an expiry date on it, what happens after that date? I love that question. If you know the answer, you know what to do. And of course, if you invented Savlon, you're in with a very good chance of getting a rayleota. Thank you, Colin. Mark's in Birmingham. Question or answer, Mark? Answer. Carry on. It's Touchwood. Go on. You said that it was the touching christian cross, which is a possible post druid time one. But the druid time one was that the druids believed if you touched a tree, you could implore the fairies living within, or the spirits living within, to come out and they would give you aid or protection. Ah. Makes sense. Dryads. Is that the word? Spirit? Druids? No, dryads. Spirits that live in trees. Oh, no. Yeah, yeah. Sorry. But there's a. There's a poem by Noor Archibald Smith to kind of back it up. Go on. They'd knock on a tree, would simply say to the spirit whom I be within there that day. Very fair. Very fair. Wish they me well against evil witcheries. Weave me a spell. Oh, great stuff. There you go. That's all we got. Great stuff. Qualifications. I'm a retired english teacher. Round of applause for Mark, the retired english teacher. Great work. Bonus point as well for bringing a poem to the table. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Here's Lisa Rizziz with the headlines. Theresa May is due in Brussels to appeal to EU leaders. It's 1235. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery out continues. We want to know whether it's gone. There's a sell by date or an expiry date on antiseptic. Korean. Does that mean that after that date, it somehow loses its antiseptic powers? Why is water taken as a sign of life on. I suppose a foreign planet? Brexit gets to us all in the end, doesn't it? What are they called? Other planets that aren't earth. Is there a word for them? Other planets. Thank you. Yeah. On other planets, no worry. We touch wood. We. Are there any fat? Insects? Can insects get fat? And what happens to court drawings? I thought we'd have nailed that one by now. A couple of answers on the way, including. I think I'm gonna. Yeah. We haven't heard from Professor Hale for ages. I've been worrying about him, but it's probably the quality of the question hasn't been of a sufficiently high calibre for him to start exercising his professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Sized brain. So he'll be up after George in Bromsgrove with question or answer? George? Hello, James. It's an answer on the fatting sector. Oh. Oh. We're going to come back to you in a minute, George, because the phone line is driving people potty and you've barely drawn breath, which means a little earlier than build, as they say on professional programs. Here's Professor Howe. Question or answer? Professor Howe. Hello, James. I'd like to talk about the water on other planets. Question. Other planets. That's the technical term I was searching for a moment ago. Carry on, Professor Howe. Yeah, non terror planets. It's a delightful question, and it's a really, really good one. The answer comes in two parts. So, first of all, to have carbon based life, which is what all life on this planet is, you have to have liquid water. And we've answered a different question about the Goldilocks zone, just the planet being the right distance from the sun. So that water's a liquid, not a solid or a gas? Yes. And the reason you have to have liquid water is water's got about between 30 to 50 different functions. It's a solvent for all the reactions in our cells. It's a coolant. It's essential for our metabolic and catabolic processes. So we basically burn sugar to give energy, don't we? And water is the ultimate product. That's when you breathe out. You're breathing out the exhaust gas, which is water. And the interesting thing about that is there's always this speculation about, could you have silicon based life? Because silicon is below carbon in the periodic table. And I'll tell you the answer why you can't. So we're carbon based life, and we eat glucose, we react it with oxygen, it gives us energy, and we breathe out carbon dioxide and water. If you did the same thing with silicon, you'd eat something called silane, you'd react with oxygen, and you'd breathe out silicon dioxide. And silicon dioxide is sand. You can't breathe out a solid. And for that one single reason, you cannot have silicon based life. Well, I know. As far as we know. I mean, there could be some alien life form that does inhale sand and exhale silicon. Well, I've had this. I bumped heads with Nick Ferrari about this, because he kept saying, why can't you freeze people in liquid nitrogen and stuff? But there comes a point where seeing other presenters. This is years ago, and it was a one time thing, James. It didn't mean anything. Go over it, seriously. Okay. You know, there's only one. And you're saying that at some point in the same way as you can't. No thing with mass can exceed the speed of light. You can say, actually, a silicon based line form couldn't exist for the following reasons. And I suppose you could say, yes, but to the degree. But water, you have to have liquid water to have carbon based life. And there is no life that isn't carbon based. No, there isn't, because you have to have proteins. What does carbon based life mean? Briefly. Really briefly. Sorry to be. You've got to. Basically, you burn sugars, you store energy, with fats. And your structure is mainly proteins and all of those things have carbon as the backbone. Oh, I see. Oh, yeah, okay. Qualifications? I'm really fortunate and delighted to be the professor of public understanding at the University of Brighton. Why do you always say that you're fortunate and delighted to be here? Because otherwise it sounds like I'm kind of. I don't know, it just seems arrogant. So I am unfortunate. Hey, you're on my show. There's no earthly way you're ever going to sound like the most arrogant person speaking. Second most arrogant, then. Round of applause, Professor Howe. Actually, arrogant's not quite the right word. I think both of us mean conceited in that context, or self satisfied. Arrogant means something rather different, which doesn't apply to either of us, especially not Hal. George is in Bromsgrove. Back to the question of fat insects. George, what have you got for me? Hello, James. Yes, insects do get fat. Oh. Depending on whether they are subject to a large food supply. But it is in the larval stage that they tend to get fat. If you have, for example, a butterfly, a whole load of butterfly caterpillars on a plant, if there is plenty of plant, the caterpillars will get fat. You can see that. And as you said before, they will burst through their skin, they will molt, because they go through a process of going through various instars. I mean, it's not quite what he had in mind, because to me, what's the difference between just growing and getting fat? I think he. I don't want to. Yes, but there is a bit of a. Once you've reached your full sigh, once you're maturity is complete and then you get fatter. That's what he meant. I think rather than just growing, there is a punchline, because if you have, for example, a butterfly that is starved and it goes through its first instar and it hasn't got much food, it struggles to find food, and then eventually it's got enough to split. If it keeps starving it, you will then finally get a butterfly when it pupates, which is a tiny little thing, so it's perfect in every detail, but it's a miniature. On the other hand, if you've got a caterpillar where there's masses of food, every larval stage, every instar, it will get really fat and then burst through and form the next stage. And at the end of it you get an outsize, a large specimen. That's a brilliant answer. Qualifications. I grew up in Africa and I used to be an insane butterfly collector. And I'd often have little cages and things with the food plant in and watch the butterflies grow. And if you had enough food plant, you'd end up with a large specimen when it was an adult. Yeah, I get it. And I think that counts as an answer, I really do. Have we spoken before? We have a few times. You used to be a teacher as well? I was a teacher at Bromsgrove school, yes, I thought so. Just double checking. So what I normally do at this point, having reckoned your low carb. Oh, hello. Is drop a few utterly pointless nuggets into the conversation to prove that I know your neck of the woods quite well. But we've already done all that. So what I would do now is I would start running through names of people I know that you probably taught, but that would be weird. On national, you mentioned somebody master on one of your other programs and I was thinking, is that Alistair? No, it wasn't. But don't do that, because, I mean, I mentioned it in a banter type context. It wasn't. No, but that's why, if our pars ever cross in real life, I shall run through a long list of kids I know that went to Bromsgrove and you can tell me whether you're taught them or not. In the meantime, here's your round of applause. When I say kids, of course, I mean people age now between 40 and 53. It is 1242. Tim is in Balham. Tim, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So I want to know, and we'll say in Britain, and like, british manufactured cars, is there any car that's ever been, like, manufactured, made and sold in Britain that is now extinct? And what. I mean, there's always a collector or somebody that's got one somewhere, in a garage, in a barn or on the road or they polish it. Well, we won't. Well, I mean, that's a problem. Then we need to clarify slightly, because we won't know if there's one in a barn as yet undiscovered somewhere. So what you want to know is that a recognized mark with a que at the end? A recognized mark of british manufactured motorcar, of which there are currently no known surviving examples. Exactly. Yeah, that's exactly. I quite like that question, actually. Why do you want to know? I don't know. I'm completely opposite to you. I'm a total petalhead. I love cars and bikes and anything with an engine. No, no, no. This is not a motor in question. This is not. No, no, no, no. This is a collecting this is an antiques roadshow style question. It's a collector's question. It's not a motoring question. Yeah, to everyone else, it's a motoring question as well. But since when have I cared about those kind of odds? You're on. I shall do my level best to find out for you and then we can scour the country together searching for one. It's 1244. So if you're an even bigger petrol head than Tim, you might know a recognized british built car mark, of which there are no known surviving examples. Oddly, for all the jokes I make about cars and motoring, I really, really enjoyed going around Beaulieu a couple of years ago. The motor museum down there in the middle of the new forest. And I bet, I bet, I bet sound like Kevin Keegan. I'd love it. I bet that if I'd asked the right people in that museum, that magnificent museum, then they probably would have known. But in the meantime, hopefully you do. So, antiseptic cream. Does it lose its antiseptic qualities after the expiry date? Cars of which there are no known surviving examples, british built and court drawings. That's all I've got left at the moment. I think 1245 is the time. Coming up at one on LBC, 1248 is the time. So far, we have solved mysteries about why water is an indicator of possible life on far off planets. Whether or not it's possible for insects to get fat, whether child child stars can attend films they have appeared in, can attend the premieres of films they have appeared in. Despite being underage, we have discovered the origins of the phrase to touch wood in search of luck. Nobody so far, has had a crack at how on earth somebody who didn't know how important the Dover Calais crossing is to import export markets in this country could have ended up as secretary of state for Brexit. So the Dominic Raab mystery will persist, I suspect, until next week. Until I get an answer to that question, I think I might keep asking it. 1249 is the time. Mystery hour continues. Sean is in maidenhead. Question or answer, Sean? It's a question, James. Yours. I wondered why all the heads on coins face one way and all the heads on stamps face the other way. In this country, isn't it? It's the queen's head, you think? Yeah. In this country. Yeah. Which they do. There must be a reason for it. Why must there be a reason for it? Well, there's got to be a reason for everything, James, you know. No, there doesn't. That's the whole point, isn't it? Sometimes it just is. Are you a parent? I am. Well, you. How many times have you said, because I say so. Well, I wouldn't do that. That's poor parenting, James. Okay, how many times is it? Because it is? Possibly once. I was thinking for the old geography teacher. So if you ask him something that wasn't on the curriculum, say, don't know. Don't need to know. Nobody knows. Yeah, listen, that's just. That's only when the football's on me. She's got all my attention. But what if there is no reason? It would just be two random decisions that are taken at this point. I hear that. I think that is possible, but it also occurs to me that there might be on every coin, they say. Now, if it was random, you probably have some heads facing the other way. Yeah. No, I like it. Why do heads face one way on coins and another way on stamps? Thank you, Jean. No, you do. You, too. Thank you. Don't cut people off, Keith. We're in the middle of complimenting. Sorry. Sure. But he's gone now. Right, that's one. Keep up the good work. You owe me, pal. All right. Honestly. Bit trigger happy. Martin is in Croydon. Question or answer, Martin? It's an answer for you, James. Carry on, mate. Well, if you've got Sheila sat there, you probably won't need me now. She's not here yet. Okay, fine. She started coming a little bit earlier because she's enjoying the banter, but not this early. Carry on. Okay. It's an answer to the question about the court sketches. Yes. The media, whether it be the BBC or ITV or sky commission, the artist to go and sit in the courtroom all day to sketch the pictures because cameras aren't allowed in yet. And same with newspapers. So do they all have their. I mean, the PA not do it so that everybody who subscribes to Pa can use the same ones? No, because for some strange reason, nobody shares the pictures. Oh, really? So. So you'll have more than one court artist in there, sometimes representing different broadcasters? Sometimes, yes. Normally you only pull the tv pictures, not the court artist pictures. Got you qualifications? Cameraman for 30 years. I filmed them. Great stuff. Do you ever film? Me? No, but I've seen you on the telly. Lucky you. Hang on. I don't think that was the actual question. The question is, who owns them afterwards? It is the media the company that's commissioned them owns, yes. So they can sell them, because you get paid for your labor, not. Not for your. Yes. So Michael Mansfield, having them up on his wall would be a gift from possibly the journalists covering that case, or a purchase they might have purchased them out of. Yes, possibly, you know, promote. Oh, where are you today? Just a lovely snatch of birdsong in the background, Martin. Walking in the woods. In the woods in Croydon. It's gorgeous. Look at that. Hey, the Croydon woods. Oh, be careful where you go. Listen to that. That's just glorious. Oh, no, I've got loads of work to do this afternoon. I should be out. Thank you, Martin. Round of applause for Martin. Great answer. 1252 is the time James is in Lewisham. Question or answer, James? It's a question, James. I want to know whether the sea is less salty than it used to be, because we've taken salt out of it for cooking, etcetera. No, if it's measurably less salty. No, because it's not a finite amount of salt that was in the sea once and stays there. Salt is arriving in the sea every day from rivers. Yeah, that did occur to me that it would be coming through, but surely there must be some loss somewhere. There might be, but it's immeasurable and meaningless in the great scheme of things, because for every salt that is taken out of a sea, or any water, for example, that's taken out of the sea, there's no difference between water and salt. It replenishes again with rain and rivers. Fair enough. I think that's a pretty good idea. Thank you very much for your time. You know, you can get. No, you wouldn't, would you? Because the rain. The rain wouldn't bring any salt with it, but the rivers would. And then mountain streams coming down through salty terrain, you know, through rock salt? Or even. What if the salt is under the sea in rock form and slowly dissolves into the sea over the millennia? Yes. Do you remember when we were kids, Martin? James. I beg your pardon? Do you remember when we were kids and when you were strolling in the countryside, you'd sometimes come across massive lumps of salt which the cows used to lick. Yes. Cow lick, yeah. And if you had a kid who was a little bit eccentric, shall we say, to be politically correct, you could sometimes persuade him to lick it. Cruel tricks we play on our peers. They're cool tricks we play on our peers. So I think that's the answer. And I'm a bit shorter. Rounds of applause. So I'll take that one. You wouldn't. It wouldn't. It's not a finite amount, so, no, it wouldn't decrease. Challenge it if you wish. You've got five minutes. Alan is in bushy. Not enough female voices on the program today. No offense, Alan, but not you personally. I'm not going to ask you to carry the cam for the whole of masculinity, but I do prefer it when we have a better mix. Question or answer, Alan? It's an answer, James, to the expiry dates on medicine. Oh, yes. Very simply, they're there just for protection. They lose some of their efficacy. Yes. So they will still do the job, but not as well as, let's say, a brand new tube of, as you said, Southland, for instance. So the phrase we're looking for is active ingredients. It would remain active, but not as active. That's absolutely correct. Qualifications now, sorry, what are your qualifications? I've been selling medicines for about 25, 30 years to pharmacists. What? Yeah. Can I just tell. Can I clarify one thing for you? Mustn't get confused with the used by date or a sell by date. No, there is a difference between them and use by date is that's when a product should be used by, which is what we're talking about. So you can still sell by date, correct? Yeah. Now, there's also, you sometimes get on medicines, a pot with the lid that's opened and it will say have six months or twelve months after opening. Correct? Yes. So you can have a product past itself by date, but it's got another six months or twelve months or 24 months after it's been opened before. It's no good. What a comprehensive answer, Alan. Thank you so much. You're very, very welcome. Troubled, a lot of ground and you smuggled in extra information in a. In a very subtle and smooth way. You're a class act, Alan. Oh, how kind. Thank you so much. And you're not so bad either. Change. I have my manus. Have a round of applause on Keith. Thank you so much. Uh, Graham is in Orpington. Graham, question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Bring it on, grace for. It's the car question about any. Yeah, I live in Orpington, in Kent, and apparently there was a car manufactured around here back in the thirties, if I remember correctly, and there are no examples of it left anywhere in the world. Great. I'm gonna have to do better than that, mate. What was it called? I think. I think it was a while ago. I think it was called the Orpington car. Sharp. Oh, yeah, I know. So this mysterious car from Orpington that you're claiming to know the existence of, what was it called? Graham. Well, James, it was called the Orpington car. Do me a favor, Graham. There was only one. There was only one model, I believe. Well, that doesn't. One model. Not just one vehicle. No, it wasn't just one vehicle. They made more vehicle. But I think they only made one model. Do you know, I just remembered, Graham, you've just reminded me that in my library at home, I have a rather splendid history of Kidderminster. And I think. I think that sometimes a supplier would bake their own car. Bake would make their own cars. Because things like chassis might be bespoke. Yes, exactly. I'm sure there was a kid in mister car. And do you know, I think on that grounds, I will give you this. You cannot take my round of applause. No, I'm not. I'm about to give it to you, actually. Before he started. Before he started quibbling. Unfortunately for the questioner, it's probably not quite what he was looking for, because the answer is going to probably be. Yeah, loads, actually. Tiny. Tiny what? Print runs. Production runs tiny production runs of small localized manufacturers. There'll be. There'll be several, won't there? And the Orpington car is a thing. I've just been shown some evidence of that, Graham. Yay. Round of applause for Graham. Thank you. Thank you. 1258 is the time. You didn't prove that there aren't any left. But. No, but the information I got was at the library. Oh, well, now, who's going to argue with the library? Apart from Brexiters? 1258 is the time. Diana is in Gerrard's cross. With the last word on this, Diana, what's it going to be? I know he said Gerard's in Diana's cross. Are you cross, Diana? No, not at all. Thank you. Didn't we hope, Gerard, I've got an answer, please, to the coin question. Monarchs don't always face the same way on coins. It alternates with each monarch. So our next monarch will be facing the opposite way to that which the queen currently faces. Who's our next monarch going to be? Oh, who knows? Quickly, answer the question. Who do you think it's going to be? Prince Charles. Yeah, see, I, in my brain just went for William and then suddenly realized I'd made a mistake. You've forgotten about him? I've completely forgotten about Prince Charles. I can't imagine if this was 400 years ago, I'd get my head chopped off. Qualifications, Diana. I'm reading a fiction book at the moment where there's a constant thread through the story about an Edward VIII gold sovereign coin and one that goes missing. And a unique 7th one. I don't know if that part of the story is true, but it mentions in the book about how Edward VIII it was, insisted that he face a certain way for the coin, but he was preferred. He always preferred his other profile. He had a massive fondness for a certain profile, didn't he? Very, very vague. So apparently in this story, it says a 7th coin was minted that he wanted to give to Wallace Simpson because he felt that was his best side. And this unique coin goes missing in the story and it's set in Ireland. It's a really good readout here. I'm late already. What's. Okay, what's the book called? Quickly? It's called when all is said by Ann Griffin. It's a great read. It's set in one day, but honestly, 84 years. Met your match there, Jake. Round of applause for Diana, quickly. Right, is that all right? That's it for another day. We'll be back again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear. Well, you already heard it. Here's Sheila Fogarty. Thank you. The New Zealand prime minister, Jacinta Ardern, has shown impressive leadership, hasn't she? Since last week's terrorist murders in Christchurch. Every action about cohesion alive to the needs of others seeking solutions. Given yesterday's events in and around parliament, how did Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn compare, do you think? Marks out of ten from two? None of you is a traitor. All of you are doing your best. As MP's receive death threats and hate mail, our prime minister used the trappings of her office, including the Union flag, to be raped. Members of parliament for not doing her bidding on Brexit. She says they won't say what they want. The truth is, she won't let them. So what now?