Queen Bees battle - 28 Apr 16

BC four minutes after twelve is the time. I think we just became a footnote in the history books. Admittedly, not necessarily history books you'd want to read, but I can't remember listening to a radio broadcast before in which a Labour politician was accosted by another labor politician in the middle of an interview. If you want to hear that bizarre encounter with Ken Livingston, which was curtailed by the intervention of we now know, thanks to Michael Crick, John Mann MP then head over to LBC Dot co dot UK. We, however, will continue with normal service with one caveat. If John Mann becomes available for interview, then I will reserve the right to insert him into the middle of mystery hour, which means it's time to kick off. Mystery hour. You know what to do now. Pick up the phone and dial zero 345-606-0973 if you have a question to which you have thus far been utterly unable to find a satisfactory answer, don't be boring and don't be repetitious. Those are the only rules we will be the judge of dullness. Caroline and Victoria piloting. I know you said Manning and then thought that would be inappropriate on gender terms. Piloting the phones. Manning the phones. Sue me. Manning the phones and their decision is fine. And if it's boring, it's not getting on. And if it's something we can remember dealing with in a relatively recent environment, then that's not getting on either. Otherwise, anything goes. The who, the why, the where, the what, the when, the whither, the wherefore and even the occasional when. So why do we do that? James, what's the origin of this? Do x have y? Do x? Do y? Why do x? Do y, what, why, where, where, when, whither, wherefore, whence, anything you like. And once you've asked the question, someone hopefully will answer it. Because I can make two guarantees. At 12th noon on Thursdays every week that we spend together, I can guarantee that you'll know more by 01:00 than you do now. And I can ordinarily guarantee at least one belly laugh. I've never let you down yet, but I recognize that one day I probably will. I hope it's not today. So you will laugh out loud and you will know more than you do now. Between now and 01:00, I'll remind you of the number. When I've got phone lines free. We have to deal with a little bit of culling, I'm afraid, at the top of the hour now, because it has prove so popular, an awful lot of people have discovered it relatively recently, ringing in with some of the hardy perennials, some of the questions that we've dealt with in the past. So just because you don't get through at 1206 doesn't mean you won't get through at 1209. But trust me, when I give you the number, it means there's a phone line free. You're not allowed to look up the answers. And it's probably worth a word of explanation on that, because a couple of you have contacted me via email, especially podcast listeners, to say, oh, you could just google it. I don't understand. I really enjoy the podcast, but, well, that's the point. That's why we started it back in the mists of time, to celebrate education. It was one of those things where a caller could tell you something that you didn't know, not in the context of mystery, in the context of anything, conversation about anything. And a caller would say, well, did you know? And those, for me, are the moments of magic, where a light bulb goes on above your head and your understanding improves because we all know stuff that the other person doesn't know. I know stuff that you don't know, and every single person that can hear me now will know stuff that I don't know. So don't look stuff up. It's about celebrating the knowledge that you already have. So, celebration of education in a world where my kids can do their homework using a search engine in 10 seconds flat, when what would have once taken me ten days of research and library visits, I want to go back to the celebration of actual knowledge. So I'll ask you how you know what you know and if we're satisfied with your answer, you'll get a round of applause. I'll give you the number once again, because I can see two phone lines for you at the moment. 034-560-6097 is the time. Where will we go first? Should we go to Bill, who's in Fulham? Bill, question or answer? Question. Really? Right, Bill. Hang on, mate. Before you ask a question, just have a quick look around, will you? Yeah. Make sure there's no Labour MP's legging it towards you. Looking a bit cross. I'm not sure. No, you're safe. You're right. All right, carry on. Mobs and rockers. With the rockers, they have the motorbikes and the big leather jackets. But what about the mods? Why did they choose the iconic bike, the lamb barretta? Why is it their flagship or their flag bike? Flag bike. So, yeah, the big sort of, I suppose Harley Davidson's the patron saint of a rockers bike, isn't it? In a way. But the lamb. Why did the mods choose the Lambretta? Was it Lambretta specifically or was it scooters in general? It's a little before my time, Bill. Lambretta's Vespas. But I believe the Lambretta was the main one, the key one. I like that. Why did the mods go for the scooters, particularly the Lambretta and the Vespa? Actually, I like that a lot. Why? Why? Zero? 345-606-0973 is the number to call if you know the answer to that, or if you've got a question of your own. And I would urge all of you, before ringing in, just to have a quick scoot round, make sure there's no angry looking Labor MP's in the environs who might rudely curtail our conversation and interrupt your call. Chris is in Bristol. Chris, question or answer? Question, James. One that's always played on my mind. Where does the word bloke come from? Oh, I like that. Just let me do a little bit. I love it. I'm going to do a little bit of housekeeping because a lot of people listening now will think, oh, I've got a word, I want to know. We only do one at a time, so don't ring in with another. What's the origin of the word x y z? We've got one now. We're only doing one at a time. But the origin of the word bloke, I've never stopped to think about that. And it's an odd word, isn't it? Because it doesn't sound particularly anglo Saxon or Latin, especially when you say it over and over again, it becomes kind of discombobulated. But, yeah, all we need now is an osmosis, mate, and we've got a full house. What is the origin of the word bloke? Where does bloke come from? Because usually you can kind of work out if you've got a cursory knowledge of Latin or greek or classical languages. Bloke. Actually, I think I was probably wrong when I said it doesn't sound anglo saxon. I'm going to lean towards germanic origins on this, rather than latinate ones, but we shall see if you know the answer to that question, you know what to do. Why do mods ride scooters? Lamberts in particular. What's the origin of the word bloke? Get the flavor of it. Now, if you've got a question you know what to do. Ali is in Watford. Ali. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Great show, as always. My question is, how many people or how much weight would it take for a underground tube train to be unable to move? What are you planning, Ali? I'm not telling anything. On a lot of occasions I get on the train, I think it's rampacked in here, and the train just seems to drive off. And I'm thinking, well, surely there must be amount of mass of weight the train can actually take, you know, because you never seem to say, actually, no more people can get on now because there's too many yards. You mean like a lift has a limit? A lift has a limit on how many people can get in it? Yeah. Even a car or lorry has, you know, a certain amount of weight he's carrying. And beyond that, it will just literally be unable to move because the suspension cannot support it. So my question is, how does it work with a tube train? What gives you the confidence that there is a limit? What would they have to do? It'll be the engine, won't it? It'll be related to the engine, I imagine, and the weight of the. Well, no, it's a fair point. I don't know who's going to be qualified to answer it. That's all that worries me. Yeah. Certainly won't be you. Yeah. All right, pal? Ali the pally. All right, let's see what we could do. How much weight does a tube train need before it can't pull out of the station? Because I know what he means as well. Sometimes you sit there and it does feel like the train is straining. Let the train take the strainer. Used to say, just pulling out. It's not going to make it. It's not going to make it. It's not going to made it. We're over the. Over the hump. I don't know. Mods, blokes, tubes. What else have we got? Stephen's in Stockwell. Question or answer? Stephen? Question. Go on, then. This is about the politics of bees. You know, when you have a beehive and a queen is there, what happens if another female bees is bee is growing to become a queen? Is she kicked out of the hive to form her own hive? Is she assassinated or something? Mate, you have got to. I'm just gonna. I'm gonna break the first rule of mystery out and use Google to check a book for you, because there is a book that you have absolutely got to read and I think it's called bees. I'll try and find it. Anyway, stay tuned. Because it describes life in a hive. Yes. And the answer to your question is variable. There's not always one mode of behavior for when a queen bee is replaced, but, yeah, they do kill any kind of mutant bees that look like they might grow up to be a queen bee. But when the queen bee is nearing the end of her life, and you can tell that by how many eggs she's laying, I don't remember what the sort of reign of succession is. So we'll find out. How does the queen bee get replaced? Is the question. Yes, but I can answer half of it, which is that, yes, they do kind of kill pretenders prior to the actual point at which they want a new queen bee. It's a brilliant book, mate. Seriously, I'm trying to find it on the. I look for it. Don't say that. I don't believe you're just trying to get. Trying to get rid of me. You sound like I bored you at a party. I'm just a boring bloke at a party recommending a book you're never going to read. It's good. It's by Laaleen Paul. L a l I n e p a U l l. Buy it. Buy it, read it. And I want 500 words of review by next week's mystery hour. Stephen. All right, you will. You will have that 500 words of review. I better get it. I'm not here for my own entertainment, my friend. I'm not here to educate myself. It's a superb book. It really is. Handmaid's Tale meets the Hunger Games, one reviewer has said, and I'd agree with that, even though the handmaid's tale is high literature and the Hunger Games is more popular, I think it does straddle both stools. 1213 is the time. Chris is in Hemel Hempstead. Chris, question or answer? That's a question, James. Carry on, Chris. I was wondering how they make fluorescent color. You know, you look like you get brightly cut a card and paper and pens. Why would it be different from any other colour? Well, the process. I mean, you just put a bit of phosphorus in the paint or something. He says ignorantly. Well, is that the reason? I don't know. That's why I asked him. Yeah. No, fair enough. I think that's a perfectly reasonable response. Yes. How do you make fluorescent colors? Yeah. Card paint. Socks. I had fluorescent socks as a lad, Chris. Did you? No, no, no. Let me tell you, mate. Kineminster roller disco in about 1983. Me and Sean Tate, he had a pink pair, I had a green pair. Do you know what we did? Made the girls run away from you? No. Steady on, mate. We swapped one sock, so I had a green one and a pink one. And of course, the roller disco is the place where all the girls see your socks. And Shaun had a pink one and a green one as well. And we rocked that roller disco, Christopher, it's very sad. Yeah. All right, mate. It's coming up to 12:15. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why did mods like scooters? What's the origin of the word bloke? How much weight would a tube train have to contain before it couldn't pull out of the station? And how does a queen bee get replaced? And then, finally, for Chris, it's a little bit unappreciative. I thought of my fascinating biographical anecdote. How do you make fluorescent color, whether paint or any, just how do you make it? How do you make a fluorescent color? It's 12:15 LBC. LBC 18 minutes after twelve. I love Andrew Castle. If you haven't tuned into his show before, you really should. He's a legend. I love him in a manly way. But there's a lady at my church who absolutely adores him, to the point of my ego being a little. Little bit bruised by the scale of her admiration for him. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is underway. Why do mods ride scooters? Origin of the word bloke. Can a tube train ever be so overloaded that it stops? And if so, how heavy would the passengers need to be? How heavy would the load need to be to make a tube train immovable? How does a queen bee get replaced? And how do they make fluorescent paint? I think we need to start getting some answers on the board. Ian is in Dartford. Question or answer, Ian? It's an answer, James, as if by magic. What have you got? Right, it's the scooter question. Go on. Why? Why scooters for mods? Yeah, yeah. Well, basically, the scooter thing didn't really come in until about 62. The original mod movement started way before that, round about 1958. And the origin of the scooter was like the italian waiters in Soho used to dart about from restaurant to restaurant on scooters. And their whole movement is based on the continental look of the French and the Italians, and that's why they chose to drive scooters. So it's the italian style, really? Yeah, yeah. So it just starts with the sartorial style in it and then it expands. Because the coffee, you're right, was part of it. The machines and then the bikes. Why not a lambretta or a Vespa? Ah. A couple of things to add. Yeah. Are you a mod? Well, I'm 44, James. I mean, I still dress smart and listen to decent music, but I feel a little bit old to say I'm a mod. If, you know, or a little bit young to have been there in the heyday of modded modding. That's irrelevant. That's irrelevant. Whoa. Purist. I'm not gonna. No, no, I get it. I like it. I like it. Why are you getting the hump? I like it. I'm enjoying the hump. You sound like you're getting a hump. I'm not getting it. What's really funny is, like, the day that this question has appeared. Yes. Because the original movement that mysteriously sort of evolved out of north London with a jewish community did it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was, um, you know, jewish tailors, uh, of course, making, um, clothes for their sons, and obviously listening to traditional jazz. And it evolved, and that's basically it. Love it. I love it. Qualifications? Uh, well, I'm a mod. I thought you said you weren't. Give them a round of applause. But I knew that. I knew the qualifications was coming. Keeping his powder dry. I'll just, like, lead you down a dark alley for a little bit. Oh, what a pleasure. Ian. You can lead me down a dark alley anytime. I got a crack on, mate. I've got a mystery out to do. It's not the Ian and James show, sadly, Victoria is in Chesham. Victoria, question or answer? Answer. James, marvelous news. Carry on. It's about the bees. Yes, the bees. Sorry, I'm very nervous. Why? Why? Why? So, phone caller. And I don't normally phone the radio. Don't say it like that, Victoria. As if it's somehow beneath you and you ordinarily would never, would never sully yourself with such a. But there's nothing to be nervous about. It's just fun. Carry on. Anyway, my answer is, if the bees aren't happy with the queen for some reason. Yes. They'll start to create what's called a queen cell. Yes. And you have to take those away if you, as a beekeeper, don't want a new queen. So if they want to swarm, they. They run the hive. The bees, not the queen. Yes. If they want to swarm, they'll start creating a beast queen cell because they need more space. So swarm means leave the hive and go off in search of a new home? Yes. And you, as a honey producer, don't want them to do that? No, no, ideally not. You don't want to lose half your bees. The other thing is that if the queen were to suddenly die, if there are eggs in there because she's been laying, if they're less than three days old, they can change that into a queen. Can they really? By feeding it different. Royal jelly. Royal jelly, wow. And is there ever. Does a queen cell ever sort of happen organically? And then the bees would act to remove it themselves. Do you see what I mean? So a bee gives birth and the egg seems set to become a queen and then the other, the drones get rid of it. It's the hive that will make the. Make it into a queen, because it's what they feed that cell. So they're then, in a way, making that decision. And in what circumstances do they depose the queen? Or does the queen always die of natural causes? It can be a swarm thing where she'll go off, but it can be if she's not letting off enough pheronomes, which means that you can get worker bees that can then become layers. They can actually lay themselves because her pheronomes suppress their system so that they. Which is why the work of bees don't lay. Love it. Brilliant answer. And I think you've already told us your qualifications, but tradition demands that I ask you again, what are your qualifications? Victoria? I'm only a year long beekeeper. Fantastic. Have you read that book, Laaleen Paul's book, the Bees? No, I haven't read that one. Absolutely must. It's a novel, it's not a how to guide. It's a beautiful book, a brilliant read, and I have a feeling that with your year long experience of beekeeping, you'd find it particularly fascinating. Okay. And the author again. Sorry, Lalene, Paul. L, all I n e and then p a U l l, I think. And it's just called the bees, so you can't forget that. No, I can't. I hope not. I will definitely read it. Thank you. And how was that? How was your debut on a radio furniture? You know, it gets easier the more you speak. It does, doesn't it? You see? And we end with a. We end with a mutual chuckle. Victoria, a round of applause. I could do your job. Let's not get carried away, Victoria. 24 minutes after twelve is the time Janet is in Hertfordshire. Janet, question or answer? Here's a question, James nice to talk to you. Likewise. What's the question? I've noticed that people have started using the word a instead of an in front of words starting with bowel. I wanted to know if that. Is it a correct term to you? You're a lady after my own heart. You're a bit of a grammar pedant, are you? And you're trying to establish the latest rules and regulations. So an attack. A attack. When do you put an end there? When is an an? And when is an a? I mean, people have started. Even your guy who does the traffic news has said a accident. And it just. I just think. Is it a correct terminology? Do you know, it's one of my Achilles heels. It's an Achilles heel of mine. Or is it a Achilles heel? I don't know. And I often wonder, is there a rule? Is there a right, is there a wrong? Someone listening will know. Can I tell you a funny story? Of course. About why did the producer just flinch and roll her eyes? Why did you just flinch and roll your eyes when I said, can I tell you a funny story? Is it. Oh, all right. She was thinking about your question, apparently, Janet, she says, so we're driving through Norfolk at the weekend and misses O'Brien says to me, well, you don't see that very often, do you? And I said, what? She said, there's a village name with no vowels in it. And I said, really? And went back to the. As we came back out of the village, a sign at the other end and it was nth, n t h. Ellum, Ellham. And I said. I said to misses Simon, do you don't think that might just be short for north to you? Oh dear. Bless her cotton socks. 26 minutes after twelve is the time Simon is in halsed and Simon, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Harry. Answer. This has been bugging me for a while. Why do we have a west end and an east end but we don't have a north end or a south end? In London? Yes, in London. Correct. Yeah, yeah, I like it. Thank you. I just trying to think if there's an obvious answer. By obvious I meant one I could think of in the 12 seconds I just gave myself to think and I can't. So we have an east end, we have a west end. It's not like saying north London because we say east London, the east End and the west End. Do you think it might be. You know how the kids these days talk about their ends? They live in their ends. I'm from Northland. Yes. In it you see, I wonder if. I wonder if they've employed some ancient linguistic device that we're unaware of and that ends actually does have a historical meaning of residence. But maybe not. Let's find out. Let's find out. Yeah, cheers, Simon. Why don't we have a north end and a south end in London, given that we have an east end and a west end and in other cities as well, but I'm not confident to state which cities do fall into that category as well. So what do we need answers to? Come on, guys, we've done the mods. What's the origin of the word bloke? I love that. Is there a point at which a tube can be too overloaded to move? Someone should know the answer that. We've got a lot of TFL listeners. Fluorescent paint. How do you make it? When do you. When do you put. When do you use a instead of Ann? And conversely, when do you use an instead of a? What's the rule? And why does London have an east end and a west end but not a north end or a south end? Elliot's in Farnborough. Question or answer, Elliot. All right, James, it's a question. Carry on. I'm a bit nervous because I haven't spoken to Elwood Sea for about five years. That's all right. What have you been doing? You've been inside? No, I was in Japan when the earthquake hit and Christo called me up to report about it. Crikey. Well, it's a bit of a come down now. You just. It's just another bog standard question on mystery. You've gone from being an international correspondent to just being another question on mystery already. I'm sorry about that, mate. Well, you've got to go somewhere, I suppose. Yeah, I guess so. Go on, then. What's the question? The question I got is, um, if. Yeah, if you're adopted. Yeah. Can you. Can you take on, uh, the passports of all four people involved? No. There you go, then. Why do you want to know? Well, it was a weird one because my kids are Japanese and they. They have to choose which passport they want, a british or a Japanese when they turn 21. And it just made me think of. But they still. They still only have, you know, I'm adopted. And at the point of adopt. The point of adoption, your biological parents cease to be your parents. That's the whole point. Ah, okay. Well, thanks a lot there. Hang on. Ask me what my qualifications are. Well, I know. Oh, you're adopted. There you go. Round of applause for me. Cheers, Elliot. Mate, I'll speak to you. Should we give it another five years or do you think you might get on a bit sooner than that? Well, I'll probably be there in two years. Hopefully there won't be another earthquake. Well, that's true. I don't want you to feel you can only ring in when there's an earthquake, mate. Well, there's always an earthquake around my house. It's one of those days. 29 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O Bruno, LBC. I think we've got an answer to the bloke question on the way, but there are some other questions. Or we got an attempt from Ralph. It doesn't mean he will cross the line. We still need to know about fluorescent paint and the rules regarding as ands. And I've got my own round of applause as well, which is always, I think, a very important milestone in the course of every mystery. But I accept that that's quite an esoteric position. Not everybody shares it. So the tube trains and the blokes. We'd still need answers to the fluorescent paint and the B's and the north end. Why have we got an east end and a west end but we ain't got a north end and a south end? I know we've got a south end, but it's not south London. It's a seaside resort. It's 12:30 here's Eleanor notes with the headlines. Former London mayor Ken Livingston has been called on LBC. It's 1233. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Need answers to quite a few questions. We'll crack on with that and I'll give you some reminders imminently. I'd also remind you to head over to the LBC website if you want to see our little experience earlier that is leading some news agendas. Outside the studio. Labor. Former labor mayor Ken Livingston being effectively accosted by the current Labour MP John Mann. Caught on camera. But of course, what the cameraman didn't know at the time was that Ken Livingston was in the middle of a telephone conversation with me. So if you were, and I know many of you were quite worried about what might have transpired if you were listening to that, it was every bit as bizarre as you thought at the time. And if you want to have another listen, or indeed if you weren't listening, you want to listen to, for the first time, head over to LBC co dot UK to. Well, Marvel, actually, is the word I'd use. And I can do that with modesty intact because it had absolutely nothing to do with me. 1234 is the time. James is in Crystal palace. Question or answer, James? I've got an answer for you, James. Bring it on. Can a tube train be too full not to run? Technically, no, it cannot. I drive trains for national rails, so the terms are slightly different, but the principle is basically the same. To operate a train, you need two things. You need air and you need amps. Electricity. Yeah. Providing that. That train's got a compressor on it. It can keep the necessary air it needs within its system, its brakes, its doors and things like that. You could keep packing that with people. The compressor would keep filling up with air. It would never stop running unless there's too many people and then they jam the doors open, then you wouldn't be able to move the truck. But in terms of. In terms of burden. In terms of weight, you might just keep filling it up. That's a lovely answer. It's good to know. Didn't they. Impelling one, two, three. Didn't they. Didn't they do something? Have you seen Pelham 123? I haven't, no. I can't not have seen Pelham 123 if you're a train driver, I don't get out much. It's the only. It's the only train based heist movie in history, isn't it? This is ridiculous. Do you know what's going to happen next? I'm going to get a phone call of John Terry telling me he's never seen escape to victory. This is absolutely absurd. How about. I'll go and watch it tonight for you. Good man. Round of applause for James. Thank you. Thank you, James. Let's go to crouch hand. Ralph's there. Question or answer, Ralph? Answer. Bring it on. Sir. Wait. Well, I'd be honest with you, I don't deserve the applause for this, because you warded me that before, because I've actually answered this question before. But you know what? This specific question, the origin of the word bloke, it was interesting. The college could have looked up the archive. Well, yes. Outrageous behavior by the caller. How dare he not look it up in the archive? Well, actually. Well, I did college linguistics course, and it actually comes from Bengali. Look, you've never phoned in with that before. I have, yes. No, you haven't. You. You ordered me before. Yeah, but a couple of years ago, at least. Couple of years ago. No memory of this whatsoever. This is so embarrassing. This is old age. I'm only 44. It's starting, Ralph. It's starting. Yeah. So the Bengali word is look look, but somehow. Somehow seems to go tacked onto look look originally, and it got brought back along with other words, like sort of pucker and, I don't know, off the top of my head, were they mainly Hindi? But this one's bigger. Yeah, but, you know, I mean, brought back from the subcontinent. Subcontinent, yeah. Qualifications? I do the college course and linguistics and. Are you shocked? Connect. Next time, I'd be honest with you, because you ordered me the plus last time, so. Yes, but, yeah, I sometimes think excessive honesty can be a. I don't, I don't. Next time. Don't. Don't say that. You've done it before for two reasons. Number one, it's a bad listen. And number two, it makes me fear for my short term memory. Ralph. Okay, well, yeah. Don't be greedy. Get the applause twice. Oh, you're such a lovely man. No, you, you. I'm going to give you two rounds of applause just for that. Hang on, stay there. That's only the first one. And this is for your honesty. There you go. Some say honesty is its own reward. I say no, have a mystery. A round of applause as well, Ralph. Take care. Thank you. Bloke comes from Loke Bengali. I don't remember that at all. Nigel's in Felton. Nigel, question or answer? It's a question. How long have you been. How long have you been listening to mystery? Oh, yes. Do you remember the bloke? Do you remember the bloke question? No. No, not a lie. Curiouser and curiouser. What's yours? What's your question? There's lots of 3d programs out there, films and stuff and 3d glasses at home when you go to the cinema. But I wear glasses. I know what you're going to ask. I know what you're going to ask. Had exactly the same thought of the Jungle Book. 3d contact lenses. It's not that awkward, actually. Nigel, your misery guts. You can put the 3d glasses on over your normal glasses and it's a perfectly satisfactory experience. It's okay. It's not. It's normal. It's normal, isn't it? No. They sort of stick on front of your glasses, you wearing two pairs, and it doesn't feel quite right. So. Yeah, all right, so the little inconvenience of having an extra pair of glasses dangling over your normal pair of glasses, you think, would be greater than having to go into the lavatory, take out your contact lenses and put in special three d ones, and then you'd have to sort of feel your way back to the. To the bathroom afterwards, like with really weird vision, because you've got 3d contact lenses on and you're living in a. In a. In a non 3d environment and you'd be putting your hands inappropriately on top of other cinema goers and you'd probably walk into the ladies by accident, because with the lenses on, you can't tell the difference between the male and the female cinema. You really think that would make your life easier? I think it'd be fun if the film was boring. Might be on to something there. But I'm trying to strike whether or not this is a serious inquiry. No, no. If I was sat at home and I put my 3d film in a. Watch 3d television, I'll just have my go upstairs, put the contact lenses in a way. So you're more. Yeah, you're right. It would be more of a domestic adventure than one in the cinema. Correct. Yeah, all right. I like that question. I was quite happy to wear him if I was going to the cinema. I think. Well, okay, yeah, no contact lenses. In and out like people pop pills, probably. Do you really? You got no problem with it? Because I only wear my contact lenses when I've got to do auto queue, so I'm very bad at it. I get quite squeamish now. I'm quite happy just getting my finger and way. Go. Yeah, there you go. Let's find out. I mean, I'm thinking if they existed, we'd know about it or you'd know about it. Well, yeah, but you want to know for sure? I don't know if you'll get. The only way we can know for sure is if we get a yes. I don't think anyone can give us a definitive no on this. Can you get 3d contacts that let you watch 3d films in the way that 3d spectacles do? I quite like that question. And if you don't, tough. Helen is in. Etching. Question or answer. Ellen. Helen. Hello, James. Hello, Helen. It's an answer, James. Good stuff. Carry on. And it's to the a and an question. Yes. It all depends on what the word is that's following it. So if the word that's following it begins with a vowel sound like a f. If. Then you would put an. And if it begins with a consonant sound, it would be a. And the. The reason is because it just sounds nicer than. Well, that's what I thought. I mean, you're going to get a round of applause depending on your qualifications, but the questioner was confused. Because it appears to be increasingly the case that people don't use an. When the word does begin with a vowel. And we've upset the travel desk. I've had a very furious text of Chris Gold on the travel desk saying, I have never, ever. He uses seven. Evers employed the phrase a accident, and he ends his text with a lols, whatever that means, l o l z. So he was accused by doing it the right way. He was accused by the questioner of having said a accident. And you do notice people doing it increasingly. Are they just wrong? They're breaking grammatical rules. If he put. If he put another word in between, like a severe accident, you can do. Because the following word begins with an s. So he could do that. But you wouldn't. I mean, dialectically. Some parts of the country would, because that's the way it goes. But certainly in what we call sort of received pronunciation for the more sort of standard queen's English, we wouldn't, because it just. We have to insert something called a glottal stop otherwise, which sounds quite unpleasant to say. An apple. Apple. It's quite estuarine. Yeah, that's it. So that's the reason it just sounds more. And it's easier to do in terms of what's going on inside your mouth as well, so less effort doing it that way. What are your qualifications? Helen, I am your phone in speech and language therapist. I know you are, but there will be some people listening who didn't. And you've earned your. What about your fourth or fifth round of applause? Fifth. My fifth. It's your fifth. I love that you're keeping count here. Quick. Great one. So that's an applause. Thank you. You're welcome, Will. Guy. It is here on the line, which means there must be a gadget question that needs an answer. Will, which one is it? Yeah, it's gotta be the contact lens one. See what he's done there? Contact lenses. He's looked into it. Carry on. Oh, dear. They don't. They don't exist at the moment. I don't think they ever will get developed because 3d films are dying off, to be honest. They're just gonna be a cinematic thing. You can get prescription. You can get prescription glasses that will be compatible with 3d movies. So that's one thing you can now buy. Oh, that's good. The point I should have made to the original questioner was he called Mark. I can't remember going on about how easy he finds it to take contact lenses in and out. Why doesn't he just wear 3d glasses with his contact lenses. Yeah. The one thing that is super interesting, though, James Google are developing at the moment, a lens that you can beam a video picture to. So it will be a contact lens you wear in your eye, but it will transmit video pictures direct to your eyes. So eventually your mobile phone will probably be almost like a Terminator style overlay, which you wear as a contact lens on your eye. Wow. When? Probably five to ten years, that technology shut the front door. Seriously. And then you'll bet you'll have pull down menus that you'll just be doing in the sky. Yeah, absolutely, yeah. That's what's coming next. That's going to be one of the next big developments, I'd say, in the next 510 years. There you go. Will Guyot is the resident LBC tech and gadget expert. And you can see why. Well, if you've never had a mystery, a round of applause before, have you? I always listen, never call in. Here you go, mate. It's a bit analog for your tastes, but nonetheless, it's all yours. It's literally analogue, isn't it? 43 is the time Charles is in Stockport, and I'm not going to ask which bit of Stockport question I got into trouble with my godmother anyway, so, question or answer, Charles. Yeah. It's a fluorescent paint. There's a chemical put in any fluorescent dye or paint or whatever, and the chemical absorbs ultraviolet light, which causes the electrons to momentarily jump up an energy level, but it's only temporary. And when they drop back down again, they emit visible light. So effectively, they convert an ultraviolet light, which is invisible to visible light. So that's why they look brighter. And it was relatively recently discovered, presumably, which is why I guess, it started appearing in the sixties or seventies. Well, yeah, say relatively. Well, I don't know. It's before the sixties, I would imagine, but didn't become popular until the eighties. It was acceptable in the eighties. Well, you had those things in discos, didn't you, with the ultraviolet lights? Yeah, but that was the light. You couldn't buy stuff that had stuff that went Florida, that had fluorescent in it. Ultraviolet lights make no shirt shirts were really white shirts. Yeah, well, you've never been to a disco. They weren't fluorescent. They were only fluorescent when you turned on the ultraviolet light that. I mean, the question was about my socks. Yeah, but that's because they fluoresce. Yeah, because the. I think it was in the soap powder, actually, I think they put. You might be right. It looked brighter, whiter. Than what qualifications, Charles? Just a level bio chemistry and physics donkeys years ago. Just a level chemistry and physics. That puts you in a tiny minority in this Philistinian country. Round of applause for Charles. Ok, it's got, isn't it, Charles? We actually. Broad bottom next to glossary 1245 from the LBC travel center, BC 1249. Can't help making the news at the moment. So my dad always taught me it's the job of a journalist not to make the news. If you become the story, you've done something wrong. But we made the Liverpool Echo yesterday. Various other sites. If you want to see why, go to LBC dot co dot UK and look at my comments about Kelvin McKenzie. And we've done it again through no fault of our own, when Ken Livingston got accosted, I think, allegedly by John Mann MP. Something that Sheila Fogarty will return your attention to in about ten minutes time. Before that, we've got some more mystery, our business to come conclude. Peter is in Chiswick. Peter, question or answer? Question. Carry on. I don't know how it's going to go down when you get women that dye their hair, and it's a massive industry, they dye from blonde to brunette and it just looks normal. It doesn't look absolutely normal when guys do it. They look absolutely ridiculous. When you say guys dyed his hair sort of totally black or whatever, if he's been going grey, you're sitting on the tiny looking and think, why have you done that? Women all around you do it and we don't pick up on it. Why do we pick up women dye their hair? Well, the reason is fairly straightforward, I think, but you can be the judge of whether you're satisfied with the answer or not. Is that how many male friends do you know that have changed their hair color quite frequently in the course of their life? A couple, really? Two or three. Liar. No, you don't. I had a guy, he had gray hair, he dyed it brown. That's not what I'm asking. I'm saying, before he went gray, how many times did his hair change color while he was young? Was he blonde in his twenties and brunette in his thirties? He was blonde. So a woman dyes her hair according to what looks best all the time, so she's not trying to make it look like it looked before she started going grey. Whereas a bloke, a bloke tries to make his hair go dark, he uses the dye, ends up looking purple, because he's just trying to hide the grey. He's not embracing the color so the woman goes to a colorist, or even if she does it herself, she's not trying to cover up the grey. She's dyeing her hair a new color. Right. So at the moment I'm brown. If I dyed my hair totally black, I think I'd look ridiculous. I'm not thinking about doing. But that's because of your face. And you never met a woman with. If you saw a woman with completely black hair, your judgment criteria is slightly different because of fashion. So you see, like, a severe black bob that you think is almost certainly dyed. Just socially and culturally, we expect women to dye their hair more so we're not shocked by it. You see a bloke with implausibly black hair. So it's socially. Yeah. Okay. It's partly to do with the fact that men are usually camouflaging where women are coloring. So that will explain half of it. And the other half is you don't notice women who've dyed their hair, whereas you do notice men because it's older behavior. Okay. It's sort of behavior. Yeah. Okay, I'll accept that. Yeah. Well, what color are you thinking of going? No, I'm not. I've got a little bit of gray. I'm happy with it, you know? Yeah, fair enough. I go full grade with the gear, all that kind of stuff. Cool. Okay, thank you. Round applause for me. 52. I'll probably squeeze that one in late enough not to get challenged. Excellent work. Ryan is in Kingston. Ryan, question or answer? Answer. And can I just say I've got dyed hair and I look fantastic. Thank you very much. You can say that, Ryan, but it doesn't make it true. Yeah, I've gone off to the west end and east end and north end and south end. Question. Yes. Yeah, basically it relates to the River Thames. It runs from the east to the west or the west, depending on your point of view. And there isn't the river that does that. North to south, and that's why we call it the west end of the east end. Are you sure about that? Absolutely, 100% sure. Qualifications? Qualification? Truthfully, I heard it on mystery hour one. Oh, shut up. We can't stop. This is getting ridiculous because I've got a new producer. It's all falling apart with repetition. And she quite rightly points out it's my job to remember stuff that happened when I worked on the show, not her job to remember stuff that happened when she didn't work on the show. All right, all right. It makes sense. The river. Give him a round of applause quick to mask our embarrassment. There's no need for that, Ryan. 1253. Alan's in Northumberland. Question or answer, Alan? It's an answer, James. Come on, man, bear with stewards inquiry, I think. Oh, no. What, on the river one? Yeah, go on, then. Because. Well, I heard this from a friend of mine, actually. It was a time when I didn't actually know where he lived and I was going to pick them up from his house and he said he lived in the posh end of Ashington, so Ashington's not a great area. So I jokingly said, well, didn't know there was a posh end in Ashington. So he said, yeah, it's the west end of Ashington. So in every town, apparently, the posh people wanted to live in the west end because. Because when they had the smoke coming up the chimneys, they wouldn't get the bad. Any town that had an industrial infrastructure, industrial chimneys, you'd have the wind, the prevailing wind, blowing west to east. So generally, the west End is a posh end and the east end is the sort of less posh end that works. But it doesn't negate the last question, the last answer, does it? Because the east end is poorer than the west end, isn't it? Yeah. But the river, the north and south is less important, I think, than the east and the west. When it comes to winds. It is, yeah. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I'm not going to revoke the last one either, because I think there's probably a kernel of truth in his as well. For London, specifically. No, I'm perfectly happy with that. There it is. All for you. Thanks very much. Very welcome. Zero 345-606-0973 there's a question there that I know the answer to. Can we get that on the board before close the play today? Please raise in Southwark. Ray, question or answer? It's an answer to a previous question. Hey, don't you dare start coming on air telling him he was wrong. Well, I think he's wrong. You tell me what you think. Go on, then. Well, I was a mod years ago, and I had a land breakfast scooter. Right? Yeah. And we dressed up in suits, winkle pickers and little berries. Right, right. You can't ride a motorbike with a suit on because you get too messy. No, the mods did make. The rockers would wear leather jackets, leather Trez or jeans. They didn't really care. Oh, I see what you mean. So you chose. Yeah, but that doesn't dispute. Again, this is just an embellishment on the previous answer. So why scooters? Because of the look, was the answer. And you're adding an extra level to that answer, which is saying, also, you couldn't ride a more traditional motorbike because you get covered in oil and all sorts of gunk. Yeah, but it's still part of the italian tradition. Why? Why an italian scooter? It's part of the aesthetic tradition of modism. Well, I don't know, but we wore berries. But you couldn't. We can't wear a beret on a bike. You could wear a berry then. That's. Wear crash helmet. Oh, of course, you're right. You can have a round of applause as well. Why are we doing so many stewards inquiries? There you go. Right. This is for you. Christine's in Brentwood. Christine. Question or answer? It's an answer. Go on. The indefinite article. I beg your pardon? It's the indefinite article. The an or a. Yes. Whether it sounds like a vowel or a consonant. Yes. So it wouldn't work on unicorn. An honest man. It begins with an h. You're quite right. It's the sound, not the letter. So you could say a unicorn. Yes. But you said. And a uniform, for example. Yeah, a uniform is fine, but not if you pronounce it differently. You wouldn't say unicorn. It would be an unicorn. Exactly. You're right. And so am I. What a happy day. What a happy Concorde. If only John Mann and Ken Livingston could have found some level of this sort of peace and cooperation. Although, of course, the downside of that would be that Sheila Fogarty wouldn't have anything to talk about in about two minutes time. Christine, have a round of applause. Can we get the ambulance question on? I know the answer and I'm going to sound really clever. Are we going to be able to get the ambulance question on before the end? I've got 60 seconds to sound really clever for the first time in the history of the show. No, not, not no. Ambulance. Origins of the word ambulance, anybody? Oh, thanks a bunch. It's coming up to 1258. I think we've done everything now. We've done that. We've done the fluorescent paint. If you've missed mystery out this week, you can go back to find out where the fluorescence in fluorescent paint comes from. What happens when a queen bee gets replaced, whether or not a tube train can ever be too heavy to move. The origin of the word bloke, why mods ride scooters, why London has an east end and a west end, but no north end or south end and what the rules are regarding vales and what have you. We're not getting the ambulance question up. Then I'm just having my request completely ignored. Yeah, all right, fair enough. Sheila Fogarty asked me the origins of the word ambulance. I think I know the origins of the word ambulance, but I'll ask you anyway. What are the origins of the word ambulance? Actually, it's funny you should ask me that, because it comes. It comes from the french ambulance, meaning walking, or perhaps more pertinently, mobile and hospital. Ambulance in the 18th or 17th century was the first battlefield based hospital and the word has since evolved into the English to mean they dropped the hospital and ambulance became the word for a mobile hospital. And today in English it is ambulance. And they come from the latin ambulantem. Feels like the most boring date I've ever been on. Thank you very much, Sheila. I won't ask how much competition there is for that. That title. That's it for me for another day. It might be boring, but it's better than fisticuffs, which is what apparently nearly occurred between a couple of prominent Labor MP's earlier. Something that she is poised to talk to you about. We shall do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. I'm James O'Brien. It's 1259. Yep. Labor in just a moment. From three, though, I want to know when you think is the right time in a child's life to start a conversation about ethnic diversity, about racism? And from two, if you've lived abroad for 15 years or more, is it right that you lose your rights to vote? What the heck is going on in the Labour party? What you heard there was John Mann, the Labor MP, ambushing Ken Livingston, calling him a disgusting racist nazi apologist Naz Shah was suspended yesterday, of course, over comments deemed anti semitic. Is anti semitism rife in the Labour party in the left?