A special charity mystery hour - featuring Jones 'The Engineer'

Make some noise. Today, all of global radio is coming together to help make a difference to wonderful small projects throughout the UK that change young lives. Capital heart, classic FM, smooth Radio, Radio X Gold and of course, us. Here at LBC, we're all giving a voice to charities which have few resources. Charities that perhaps you haven't heard of before before. But they are all passionate about making a difference to the lives of children, and you'll be hearing from a number of them throughout the day. Today is Global's make some noise day and you can make a difference to people like Amy. Amy has a rare genetic condition called at, which affects her speech. We don't want to be treated differently just because you might look differently when they're different for anyone else. And it's not just speech. A child with at will typically need a wheelchair by the time they are just ten years old. And life expectancy. Oh, man. Is only in mid twenties. Your money is so important to projects like the at society and you can do your bit by donating ten pounds by texting LBC. Ten without a space to 70070 doesn't actually matter whether it's the number or the letters. I got that a bit wrong. So just text LBC ten, no spaces to 7000. 7100 percent of your donation will go to globals. Make some noise. And if you're under 16, please ask the bill payers permission first. On top of that, the Vodafone foundation have pledged to match your text donation up to a total value of 100%. Of course, standard network charges may apply and terms and conditions are at LBC dot co dot Uk. I have something very important to announce. This is an unsigned text. Help. My old mum thinks I'm lying about it being Friday because James just said it was mystery hour next, please tell her it is Friday, otherwise she won't believe me. Madam, I promise you it is Friday today. I absolutely and categorically promise you that it is Friday. Today also means, because I think other people possibly didn't realize that the make some noise mystery. I was a real thing that was truly going to happen for the first time in the history of mystery. You'll get through now if you hit the numbers, seriously, if you know what we're talking about, then you know what to do. I just want to do a little bit of housework first. I want to do. I know why, because you've got to get these things out there. And of course, it just trips off the tongue neatly to say, it's only ten pounds. But given that we got so upset last week about the news story reporting that 16 million people in this country only have 100 pounds. I don't think ten pounds is a pittance for a significant number of people listening to this program. But I also know that you may want to contribute. So what we're going to do now on mystery hour, if you want to make a donation to make some noise, then you don't have to tell me how much. You don't have to make the ten pound limit. You can just ring the number now, get a question onto mystery hour, pay for the privilege to ask that question, and then we'll get back in touch afterwards. Leave us your details and you can make a donation as big or as small as you like. I don't want anyone to feel left out of this, you know, whether it's just a couple of quid that you've got spare, or whether or not you want to really roll out the barrel and donate a couple of grand, you can do that now. Okay. So in the first instance, to get your question on the board, you should know by now what to do. I am. Man, I'm going to regret this. I'm lifting the rules. I'm removing the rules from mystery hour. All right. Normally there are only two rules. They are don't be boring and don't be repetitious. Don't repeat yourself. The boring usually excludes all questions like, why don't you see don't bite dog poo anymore. I can't even do the comedy voice, can I? I'm lifting the rules. So you know the kind of questions, and always motoring questions get politely invited to move along. If you've been ringing in for years with the same question and they just won't put it through because it's so boring, today's your day. I'm going to regret this, aren't I? I really am. And I'm even going to let you on if I don't normally like talking to you, unless you're Roger in Bromley, in which case you're still banned forever. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Get your question on the board, make your donation and we'll crack on imminently with. Is Miles going to do this? Is he really? Is that miles on the line now? Hello? Do you regret this text that you've just sent? Not for a second. Are you serious? Do you want to tell me? What do you want to tell everybody listening what you've just sent into the studio? I'll give 500 pounds. Done. Anyway, done deal. Right? Yeah. If you answer this question, which you will know the answer to. Go on, then. How come mister is on a Thursday when it's such a Friday feeling kind of thing? I've got. I can't remember. Jones the engineer has made a cameo return to the studio. I think given that we're breaking all the rules here on LBC, I'm going to bring. You can hear Jones the engineer's voice for the first time now in the history of LBC. He's leaving the company soon. I won't tell you what he's going off to do because it's probably going to end in tears and he'll be back with his tail between his legs after a couple of weeks. Jones, you were here at the very beginning of mystery out. I can't quite remember how it started. It was something to do with why it's going valuable. We had something on every day. And do you remember what Friday was? The Friday quiz. Friday Quiz. So we couldn't do it. It started on Friday. When you got the Friday quiz on a Friday. We had the Tuesday free for all and the Friday quiz got on a Friday because it's got Friday in the title. So we couldn't do it on a Friday, Miles, because we had the Friday quiz on a Friday. So mystery hour is always on a Thursday. So how come the quiz perish, but the. But the mystery has survived. It's getting a bit sticky now. You might have to do another ton to get. We had a change of management and they decided that some of them should help me out here. Jones, some of the more frivolous stuff that we did on the program didn't fit into the new, the new look. LBC. It's an amazing mystery. I survived. It's an absolute bloody miracle that mystery arrows survived. I think they saw the numbers. They saw the numbers on the podcast and realized that it's by far the most popular thing we do on the whole station, podcast wise. So that is your answer. Shall I, by way of an extra bonus in return for your pound 500, Marshall, I tell you the best moment ever on the Friday quiz. Hang on. What's your qualification? First, for knowing the answer, qualification to this is architect, arbiter and final judge of all mystery hour and Friday quiz related matters. All right, then. This is proper funny. Do you know where we're going, Jones? Do you remember this? I do remember what her name was. Is it royalty based? It is royalty based. So this lovely old lady ragged to do the Friday quiz. And one of the questions was, how many Kings of England have been called Henry? Oh, hang on, I know there was a Henry VIII. She said. And then. Oh, oh, there's a Henry V. James. I know there's a Henry V. And she said, is it three? Which was one of my favorite moments ever on the program. And now you've got an answer to your question, so a round of applause for me. Thank you, Miles. 500 quid in the hole already. Plus, of course, Gary, who donated 100 quid earlier in response to the fact that on my twitter went over 100,000. I think he gets a free question as well. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Is that your first time on the radio? You have been tweeted twice since I've come on by who can you guess? No. Balcony shirts and Wayne lynch have both tweeted. Here he is one of them. Unbelievable. There's a reason your voice is not on air. That's outrageous. If you're telling you've got a face for radio next. We all get used to that. I used to be a presenter, you know. I know you did. He was on Classic FM in 1974. Are you going to stick around? He's management now. Haven't you got important things to do? David is in East Mosley. David, what have you got? Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. And it's a really easy one for you, because being ex rag trait, you should be able to answer this one, probably. Why does the men's shirts button left to right and a woman's shirt button right to left? Oh, now, it's funny you should ask me that. Jones, you remember this one, don't you? Wait, didn't you used to be in tailoring? I did. As he's just referred to. I do. I do know the answer to this. Greatest hits of mystery. If all questions are tailoring related, we could be here for a while. But we've done this on mystery hour as well, a few times. Oh, hang on a minute. Andy's just texted. He says, I've always wondered what Jones sounded like. What a dude. That's pathetic. The answer, David, is it's good to hear James Jones on the radio. It is, isn't it? You're a sidekick, all right? Not a co presenter. The answer to your question, David, is this, is that ladies would be dressed by their maid. And because most of us are right handed, it's easier to do the men's way of buttoning the button on the right, slip it through the hole on the left. Ladies, historically, would. I mean it would only have been the posh people, the aristocracy, that had buttons. The rest of us wore smocks and the lady's maid would do her buttons up. So it evolved that the buttons on a blouse would go down the left hand side because a right handed maid would be buttoning them up. Now, that's very good. You can take a round of applause for that one, young man. Quality. And if you leave the details of the donation that you want to make, then that would be fine. I'm not going to ask people to tell how much they're donating unless they want to, because this is my little antidote to the suggestion that ten quid isn't a lot of money. If ten quid isn't a lot of money to you, you can by all means donate more. John's in Peckham. John, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question. Come on, then, John. Right. And if you were on the International Space Station and you hit a golf ball out into space, would it ever stop? How far would it get? And if it didn't stop, would it stay at a constant speed? Yeah. Yes, yes, yes, it would. No, it would never stop. And it would stay. No, I don't know what speed it would stay at. Would it even accelerate? Jones. What? You're being very quiet, Jones. I wasn't listening. Four minutes. Four minutes into your career as a radio psychic, I've just suddenly become a Twitter star. I'm more worried about Twitter. The whole point about the Voyager is that it. It doesn't have engines anymore. It's just the speed it hit when it. That's why you're asking the question, isn't it, John? Yeah, it is, yeah. So I'm not going to be able to work this one out. So we need. I need. If you know the answer to John's question, get it on the. Get on the blower now. Zero. 345-606-0973 it'd be nice if you make a donation to answer a question, but I don't think you have to. It would be. Otherwise we might not get any answers at all. If you hit a golf ball from the International Space Station we had Tim Peak on last week, we could have asked him, if you hit a golf ball off the International Space Station, would it travel forever? Would it stay? What speed would it travel at? Would it travel forever more? And etcetera, etcetera. 1215 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien with a rather exceptional or at least eccentric mystery hour on LBC 90. Minutes after twelve is the time we've got a slightly out of the ordinary mystery, our special mystery, our Friday's rare exception and already raising money for make some noise. Remember, you can donate less than ten pounds to get your question on the board. You don't have to say on air how much you've donated, everybody so far, happy to sort of step up to the plate, but I do recognize that you might only have a couple of quid to spare. And if that's the case, then this is your opportunity to get involved as well. Miles has delivered his 500. I think Gary paid his 100 earlier after saying that if my Twitter following went through 100,000 overnight, he would do. Jones the engineer is here. First time ever for regular listeners to the program. I'll tell you what it's like today. If you're new to the program, this is a bit like at school when you could wear home clothes. So if you haven't been in uniform all year, it won't be as exciting to you as it is to the rest of us. It's quite in this, James, but I gather from social media that you're garnering a lot of love. Well, I say a lot of love. I think a couple of people are excited. A couple of people are excited about this. And you're the only person who's been in mystery House since the beginning, so you can help me answer questions today. Speaking of beginnings, this could be the beginning of a wonderful episode in your life because you could get your hands on that prize that is up for grabs. Where are we now? 3600 pounds. So you've got about eight minutes left. Get over to LBC dot co dot uk dot. It quote s an amazing trip for two to Washington DC. If you land this, then the person you take with you will love you forever. Seriously. And you've got pound 500 shopping spree that's already worth more than it was yesterday, thanks to the performance of the pound. Overnight, you've got shopping spree at the Pentagon City, you've got staying at the luxury Ritz Carlton. Big bus, Washington DC. Trip, bike and roll. United Airlines will fly you there and back. It's all there. The prize, you can check it out at LBC Co dot UK. Place your bid in this online auction and read all the terms and conditions by getting over there now, it's still worth, in my opinion, considerably less. The price you're paying for it is considerably less than what the price itself is worth. Theoretically, you should pay more than what the price is worth and then give all the money to charity. But as it stands, you could get your hands on that for just north of three and a half thousand pounds and it closes at 1230, so you've got less than nine minutes to do that now. OK, get over to LBC dot co dot UK. We're cracking on with mystery Hour. I've answered the buttons question. The one about the golf ball on the space station is quite long, but. But if you heard it and you can answer it, the number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 Howard's in Suffolk. Howard, question or answer? It's a question. Go on. It's from my son, who was given a purse by his grandmother and he said, well, why is a purse for a woman and a wallet for a man? Oh, I like that. Pockets, purses. Women carry bags. Coins. No pockets. Coins. Coins in pocket. Girls don't have pockets, ergo they need something that shuts with a clasp to keep their coins in, ergo, purse. Howard, possibly an answer. What do you mean, it's possibly an answer? It's definitely an answer. It's possibly correct. Yeah. I don't think it's definitive. I think there's a little bit more to it than that. What, does this happen every week? Unbelievable, Howard. You've just sucked all the fun out of the room with a question about a pass. What else could it possibly be? You keep coins in a pass. Men have got pockets, ergo they don't need a sealable receptacle for their coinage. Did he want to know why they're called purse? No, he wanted to know why women have a purse and men have a wallet. Well, there you go. Is your answer because men have pockets and women don't. Round of applause for me. I'm for Howard. And for Howard. Be such a curmudgeon. Howard, take care. Michael's in Victoria. Michael, question or answer? I've got a question. Please, Jake, carry on. My question's about british passports. Why do they still have French writing next to, obviously, date of birth and all the other details? Why is it still in French? It is the international language of diplomacy. Is that. What are your qualifications? I've been reading up a lot on passports lately for a whole heap of reasons. Do you know Croatia is in the EU and it's got a blue passport? Really? Yeah. I didn't know that. No, no one did, mate. During the run up to the election, when creepy uncle Nigel was waving his passport around and claiming that we all needed a blue one. You can have a blue one. The rules aren't even set by countries. They're set by the international civil. It's a civil aviation. International Aviation Authority determines the rules regarding passports, usually for getting in and out of customs. So I will take a round of applause. Have you made your donation to make some noise? We get your details now and we'll crack on with our international language of diplomacy or some similar phrase. Judy is in Belsize park. Question or answer, Judy? It's a question. Carry on. I'll have an extra little question first, which is, why doesn't Jones do the program? Why doesn't Jones do the program? I'm afraid I can. Only. I could answer that, Judy, but it would embarrass him, and he's here. Oh, okay. My question is, at the end of films and television programs, I'm always quite interested to know when they were made and the date almost always comes up in roman numerals. And it's quite quick at the very, very end of the program, and I can't work out which year it was. And I wondered why. Why did they come up in roman numerals and not the other? You know, I don't know what they're called. My husband said they're called Arabic. The others, but I don't know. Our numbers are. No, I think he's getting it mixed up with the Alphabet. No, our numbers are Arabic now. You mean like one, two, three, as opposed to VXI? Do you know what we've done? This is the point about relaxing the rules of repetition that I can remember. What the receipt, no one knows for certain, but the theory is that it is done deliberately to deceive you, Judy, so that you won't be able to tell how old something is. Why? I don't know why. So that you don't realize you're watching something 30 years old and you might get cross about, you know, paying your license fee. But it wasn't old when they made the film. And it's on the film as it was made. Yes, but. But it doesn't date you. Stays there forever, doesn't it? Yeah. So it sort of hides the year it was created. They do it at the beginning. Hang on, hang on. I know this is an unusual day, so you won't be as rude to as you were last time I phoned. That's a challenge. Now, you can't do that, Judy. You can't challenge me not to be rude because I have to rise up to the plate now and be even ruder. Have you made films? Are you a filmmaker? Yeah. Yes. You're not. I am. What, you've directed films? I've directed films, I've made films, I've starred in films, all sorts. You have not directed television programs and films. And there we go. Even really last time, the old fade out. That's not. You got to use it, Brett. Very spell. What do you reckon? Twice a year, the old fade out. Yeah, it works well twice a year. A special occasion. You better fade it back up again because she's made a generous donation to make some noise. Judy, are you still there? Still talking. Someone in space screen. Would anybody hear it? I want to know your qualifications. My qualifications are that we've done it before on mystery hour. And they definitely said it's to deceive us. That is the finest qualification known to man. And that is the reason. It is. It is. I mean, no one. Yes, it is. Deception theory. Okay, round of applause for me. Thank you very much. Bob is in Guilford. Bob, question. Can we clip that noise? I love it. I want to use that again and again. Bob, what have you got? Answer. Carry on to the golf ball. Question. If we hit a golf ball off the International Space Station, what would its trajectory be? Sorry, if what? Hey, you rang in with the answer. If you hit the golf ball with a speed equal to what we call the escape velocity, it will forever leave Earth and you will never come back. It's not on Earth, it's hitting it off the space station. I know, but the space station is relatively so near like. Escape velocity at the surface of the Earth is 11 km/second now 600 miles or 700 miles above the atmosphere. Where this. Oh, hang on a minute. The grown ups have arrived. Even the moon is still gripped by the earth's gravity. And that's a few hundred thousand miles away. Who could forget that? So what do you. What is escape velocity again? Eleven. What? At the surface of the earth is just over 11 km/second yes, of course. If you launch, if you throw a tennis ball in the air with that speed or more, it will never come back to the earth. What are your qualifications, Bob? I've got a PhD in computational mechanics from Imperial College. Yeah, it's not rocket science though, is it? Round of applause for Bob, by the way. James. Bob. James. Bob. James, tell me, which film did you star in? I want to watch that. That's just for me. No, I'm not going there. But it's coming up to 29 minutes after talking. Actually, do you know, I don't think I have been in a film. Now I come to think I was in a pop video once. Does that count? I was in a divine comedy pop video. Gary's in Ibiza. Gary, you've already been on once today. So you've broken a record. We've heard Jones's voice for the first time. Someone's got through twice. You've already donated your 100 quid. What's your question? Sorry, I'm in Crystal palace now, but I know it's coming up to the break what it was. I want to know why. When you witness someone yawn, it causes you to yawn. Yawning. Contagious yawning. Jones, do you wanna have a go at this one? It's a hardy perennial, probably. It's a great question. I know the answer to this. Yeah, we've done it before. We have. This is why we're doing great. Is it? Today? I should add, there's some phone lines. Free. Zero. 345-606-0973 the theory is, Gary, that when you yawn, you can see behind me, right? Yeah. Because I can see you yawning and I can see behind you. So the fact that you're yawning and the fact that I can see behind you communicates evolutionarily to me that we are both safe. Because if there was a lion behind me or a yeti, you wouldn't yawn. And I can see there's nothing behind you. So when you yawn, I'll have a yawn as well because it's good for me to suck in all that oxygen and everyone's a winner. Ah, I see. Right, okay, that's good. Get in, trolls behind you. Round of applause. A troll. If the troll was behind me, mate, I'd just be cashing the checks. Oh, no. The biggest secret on british radio has just got out. It's up. This is LBC. It's 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. That auction will have closed now. We'll get you the final figure on that trip to Washington DC. If you're just tuning in, you're missing a bit of a treat. It's like at school when you have lessons outside. Should we have the lesson outside? No one ever does any work or they put a film on at the end of term or you're allowed to come in. Home, clothes. We're doing a special make some noise mystery hour, joined for the first time in radio history by Jones the engineer. His voice is causing amazing excitement rippling through the. Through the audience. Someone has just compared it to. I like this one. Have you seen this one. Jones. No, I can't. Jones. Voice on the radio. Hearing Jones's voice on the radio is like Scotty being allowed on the bridge of the starship enterprise, or Batman being unmasked. Beaming up says, jakey, Batman's always unmasked, you prune. It's Bruce Wayne. Jakey. Come on, mate. There's no mystery about who's behind Batman's mask. But I like the scottie. Just can't do it. Jim, Mike's in. Where are you, Mike? I'm in Hamoria in Spain. Okay. Question or answer? It's a question. I think it's more directed towards Joe. Towards Jones, the engineer. Whoa, hang on a minute. What's happening? Before you continue, I'm ready. Did you make your donation in euros? No, I haven't made a donation yet. I'm waiting for them to get back to me. But will you be making it in your eyes? Because I reckon they're a better bet than the pound today. No, it'll be in sterling. Oh, great. All right, carry on. You can direct this to Jones, but obviously I reserve the right to interfere like a conceited puppy. Carry on. Well, you always. Obviously. Self deprecation. Not an invitation to join in. Carry on, Mike. Self deprecation, that's not like you at all. I've got two identical radios. Oh, yes. One I keep upstairs, one I keep downstairs. Well, I have them both on at the same time. Why aren't they in sync? Are they both Dab? Yes, they're both dab radios. Yes. I was hoping he's gonna say no there, Mike, do you want to know a secret? Do you want to know a secret, Mike? Before he can. His degree is in psychology. Yeah, I actually don't. I'm called an engineer. I couldn't believe. I couldn't be less qualified for that title. I can believe that. Absolutely identical radios. Yep. Roberts, Dav radio. Where do you live, Mike? Almeria, in Spain. Have you not been paying attention? Yeah, in Spain. Hang on. Are you listening on the radio in Spain? I know at the moment on this? Yes, on the radio, on the Internet. At home, I have two digital radios. This is in Waltham Abbey. One upstairs, one downstairs, all at the same time. And I could actually. If I missed something upstairs, I could get downstairs and listen to the answer. That's amazing. I think your stairs are some sort of time space vortex. There is a large delay on Dab compared to FM. In fact, it's up to about a minute. And if you listen on the app, it's even the app is even even more a delay. So this is. This is really boring. Right. You've certainly stepped up to the plate on that rule about you can be as dull as you like. You might be on the border between two regions to two DaB regions. And he's picking up one. One radio is picking up one region, the other one's picking up the other. I mean, even if I had the answer, how interesting is it going to be? Who's that shouting in the background? Mike, who's that in the background? Nobody. It's just the. Oh, your radio in another room. You've got 3d left. Whoa. I've got the answer. Go on. It just is. It just is. Mike, round of applause for Jones. Oh, no, no, no. I think I deserve a round applause for flooring you with the question. Flooring us with Mike. We don't believe you and we're too polite to point out that you've probably got a little bit confused. I haven't got the confused. That's what all confused people say. Okay, James, thanks for your efforts. Sterling efforts. Emma's in Alfreton. Hello, Emma. Morning, James. Now you don't have to say hello to Jones. Question or answer, Emma, I've got a question and I'm glad you're breaking the rules, because it's really boring. I love you, Emma. Go on. I want to know why we have to have two different types of screw heads. Do you know the slot top and the phillips? I want to know why we can't just get rid of screws. That's a very good question, isn't it? It's very boring. Well, isn't it? Isn't it? A lot of people listening will be really interested in this. You're clearly not particularly interested, but everybody else I ask isn't. Because if I'm using a sock top. I bet you are. And I've got to take that out. It changes my personality. Yes. I'm a different person. Why? Why? Because I just get frustrated and I think, why do we need these? The world is wrong. What's this all about? Nightmare. It's a nightmare. The clue is in the name of Phillips screw head. Do you think they've got the painting for it? Oh, there you go. Emma, if you don't. If you want to make. Oh, it's a crosshead. Yeah. So that's your phillips, though, with the cross on the top, and then you've got your slot one. There's only two types, isn't it? Yeah. So I think that if you want to make screws. But you don't want to pay any money to Phillips, then you have to make them the flat. He's good, Jones. I think he's. I think he's gone and done it. Emma. I don't like Phillips screws, mate. Let her know. Seriously, you're bigging up your partner. No one cares about your comedy riffs and what your favorite screws are. You're not Ricky Gervais, mate. Sort of stand up routine or anything. You're not carpool, just wind your neck in. So what do you think, Emma? I don't know. I wish there was something a bit more. I know the question's boring, clever sounding, so a bit more clever sound. Jones gets that a lot. Don't be shy. Yeah, all right. We'll try and find out. But I'm grateful Jones has answered it, though. I mean, I feel honored. Just. Just with that. You are quite honoured, actually. That could be the first and last time it ever happens. And you'd be surprised how much he knows about. It's 20 minutes one. You're listening to James O'Brien and Jones, the engineer on LBC. Can we get an answer to Emma's question, please? Why are there different types of screws? Why can't we just have the best one, the one that works? I've forgotten what the other questions are, but someone will remember if you can, if you. Hang on. Matt in Fulham, is it? Emma, are you still there? Yeah, I'm still here. Stay there. Matt knows the answer. Matt, what is it? Well, there's a couple of answers. Apart from the slotted screws, which is the flat one, just looking a lot nicer. The problem with them is on the side, when you try and turn it, the screwdriver can slip out and scratch the hinge that you're fixing. So the one with the cross, which is either phillips or posidrivers, got a much better grip. Another answer is the screws, which are brass. Brass is very soft. So if you try and put the cross head into that, because you've not got enough purchase on the screwdriver, with the cross head, it will just bur the end and round it off and you'll never get it in. So you need to slot, which is wider, so you've got the talk to turn it. Sorry, that got a bit boring. No, mate. I was getting quite aroused that way. The talk to turn it. That's exciting, isn't it, Emma, I'm happy to accept that, but I just think the only to change it so that we have hard Philips. But then you won't get the talk to turn it. Emma, would you just pay attention, please? It's post fact politics gone mad. Round of applause for Matt. Well played, Matthew. You alright, Emma? Happy with that? Yeah, I'll accept that. I'm very happy that it's just been answered. All people have been interested. People have been. Well, I won't go that far. It's 1242, very nearly. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I can't remember what else we need. Lizzie's in Northampton. Lizzie, question or answer? Oh, no, she's not. Where's Gary's here in wolf. What's going on? Lizzie, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why is dentistry not an ology? Dentist, dentist trilogy. Dentist trilogy. Dentistry, cardiology, neurology, oncology, ophthalmology. Yeah, just read. Not an ology. Well, because dentistry is doing stuff, I think. Is that. Is there a stuff to us? Why am I talking? I think it's because it's a relatively recent. Oh, no. Oncology. The study. Dentology would be dentist. Dentistry. The study. Oh, I haven't got a clue. Is it obvious what the hell's going on in the background? Are you in a zoo? No, my daughter's crying. Oh, boy. And you're on the phone. What sort of mother are you? She's got toothache. She got toothache. Why is dentistry not on ology? You're on. Alright, I'll try and find out for you. Thank you very much. Go and see to your daughter quickly. Three. Gary's in Wiltham. So, Gary, question or answer? Answer. I tell you what, Gary, I thought you can see why the music jocks have people in the studio with them. It makes life hell of a lot easier. Even a sort of blamond like Jones is upping the banter quotient like. Like there's no tomorrow. It's amazing, isn't it? When I say a blank look on your face, I can just pitch in and start talking. I don't have any of my usual worries about, you know, the Tyrion, Silas. Anyway, Gary, where were we? What's your answer, dav? Radio. Why? Yes, why? They're different. Well, first of all, though, they're identical radios, the parts in them. In other words, all the circuitry and everything will have variations. They will vary slightly. There are tolerances with the resistors, the transistors and everything else in there. So although they're identical, they will process the information that's coming in slightly different. It might be microseconds because if you take, for instance, a tv, your picture and your sound are transmitted separately, but they have to be synchronized by the unit when the tv receives them. And the DAB radios would actually have to be synchronized. There would have to be a circuit between the two of them to synchronize everything to make it come out the same time. The fact that the transmission is obviously by the air, so it's a transmitted signal. The signal, although transmitted at the speed of light, more or less, would reach each radio slightly earlier or slightly delayed. So it would never synchronize unless you had circuits to sync. So basically what it is, it's the tolerances between the units. Although they're identical, the components that make them up will have a degree of tolerance between them. What's the opposite? Is that answering? What's the opposite of a round of applause, Joan? I don't know, but is he finished? I think so, yeah. Oh, sorry. Is it no good? I think so. I nodded off about. This is one of those questions where even when you've got the answer, it's not. It's not that interesting, is it, really? I just asked what the opposite of a round of applause is. Gary, are you ready to find out? Oh, God. I don't know what's going to happen now. I don't know if I was Judy in the middle of it. Oh, good work. Well played, Gary. I didn't get any of that. Did you get any of that? No. We got a stewards inquiry on the golf ball question coming. And Bob was a. No, he was an actual rocket scientist. We'll find out what Mike thinks he got wrong after this. It's 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Simon Mordisch has been in touch to say it's just like listening to north Norfolk Digital's mid morning matters. Jones, it's high praise for you. And some. Some lemon has started. The hashtag keepjones. Hashtag get lost. Mystery arrows underway. Mike Schnell, Hampstead. Mike, question or answer or stewards inquiry? Stewards inquiry? Yeah, it's an inquiry, actually. Yeah, go on then. Yeah, right. What the guy said was essentially correct, but where the problem with that is that the space station travels around the earth in orbit approximately 17,000 miles an hour. Escape velocity is approximately 25,000 miles an hour. So for that to happen, you'd have to hit the golf ball. 8000 miles an hour plus. But realistically, someone on the space station hitting a golf ball, it's only going to hit the golf ball at a couple hundred miles an hour. And it depends which direction you hit that golf ball. There are all sorts of scenarios. We give you one. For example, if you hit the golf ball out the back of the space station, what would effectively happen is the golf ball would travel further away from the space station and it would be traveling at a slower speed than the space station, so it would actually start to sink down towards the earth and then it would increase speed. This is the irony of it. It would increase speed and actually catch the space station up as it increased its speed to keep in a lower orbit. But also you've got. Don't spoil it, Mike. Don't spoil it, Mike. Seriously, the room. This is the good bit, this is the exciting bit. The space station, every now and again, has to have a little boost to keep it up, because what's happening. Yeah, we did. We all do. Yeah. What's happening is you've got, even where the space station is, air molecules, albeit not many, but as it collides those air molecules, it very slowly slows the space station down. So it has to have a little boost to keep the orbit height. The same applies with a golf ball, but obviously you haven't got any boosters on a golf ball. So what would happen over time? Has that golf ball collided with these molecules in the air? It would eventually start slowing down and it would start coming down into the atmosphere and over time, eventually it would just burn up and disappear as a meeting. Right. Boom. Qualifications, Mike? I'm very well read and a member of the british and society. The british what society? British Interplanetary Society. The British Interplanetary Society. You've never heard of how many other planets are involved? It's basically a body of people that promote space flight and space exploration. Really? So, yeah, it's not exactly rocket, so. I've already done that, Jack. Sorry, can I give round of applause for Mike? That's almost a ray Liotta moment, isn't it? That's all I wanted. My life is fulfilled. James. Well, carry on, Mike. I'm going to rattle through these now because we want to get the money off these people rather than just the questions. Mark in Banbury. Question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Carry on. Seagulls. Seagulls. When farmers are ploughing a field, they can be in the middle of the country, miles from anywhere, within about 2030 minutes. There's 50 seagulls behind every tractor. How? Right, you're on. How do the seagulls know about the tractors and the farmers and the ploughs? Good work. Chris is in Bristol. Chris. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It was a guardian. Dentistry. And why it's not. Why is dentistry not an ology? Because an ology is the study of something rather than the mending or repairing. It's not going to be that, is it? You forgot who you're listening to. We know what the plumbingology means. The correct answer to the question which came to me shortly after Lizzie asked it is it's the study of teeth and the diseases of teeth is called odontology. Odontology. Yeah. He beat me to it. What? You were just completely wrong. How did you give him that? Non applause bob. See Waltham happy. Bob. Question or answer? I've got an answer for you. It's a stewards inquiry on screws locks. The screws answer was brilliant. No, it's wrong, though. Go on, then. It's a historical question, really. We didn't have the technology to make the more complex types of screws today. With the Phillips styles and years gone by, we could make a screwdriver using a forged material. And this is just nonsense. No, it's not. The question is why? No, no, no. The question is why do we still have separate types now? We still have them because they're very much preferred in the woodweight work trade, which is what the first answerer said. I didn't hear that. Sorry. But you rang in to correct him. I rang in to correct the. After the. I heard when the guy was saying in and about the screws, about the torque. Turning. Turning. You can't get the torque to turn it in certain types of wood in the same way that you can with it. Oh, Bob. I'm afraid you get one of these as well. No. Metan. It's in Finchley. Mettai. Question or answer? Metan. Metan. Rupert's in East Dunn. It's Rupert. Question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Carry on. The CO2 that's absorbed by trees when they're growing, do all that good work when we cut them down, is all of that wasted, therefore, and under what circumstances or does, if you were to grow lots of trees and make things out? And obviously, if you rot it or burn it, it will release the CO2, but does it retain all that CO2 if you make, you know, a table out of it or something like that? So could it do. I suppose the short question is, does making products out of wood represent a practical means of CO2 sequestration? Jones. And obviously reusing land, growing more trees would have be more effective. But it's not. There's not CO2. I mean, you're having chemical reactions all the time. So the building blocks have changed into different things. Well, but, yeah, they're locked in as carbon. But is it. Does it retain. Is it continue to be retained? Yeah, after the tree is cut down. Is that. Is that certifiable? I'm looking for a categorical answer. Well, you're not gonna get it from us, Sheila. I just walked in the room. I'm exempting myself, all right? Now, I've got to crack on because I'm raising money. But if anyone understands that question and can answer it, ring us now. Mettan is in Finchley Metan. Question or answer? It's an answer. Steward's inquiry on the golf ball in the space station. That was one of the best answers ever. Go on. Why? Well, he was right in one sense. It depends in which direction you hit the golf ball. If you hit it away from Earth, you did say that it will just head off? Yes. If you hit it towards the earth, it will shoot straight down and be the meteor. And I think his answer applied if you actually hit it in the direction the space station is traveling. And so it will slowly, eventually slow down and then crash to the earth. That'll do, won't it? Yeah. Yeah. Qualifications? Aeronautical engineer. See, there's such a high caliber of listener here. Well, sometimes we do. Here's a quick pop into the box of trolls. Your host is a fascist. Lefty muted me for raising an opposing opinion. Embarrassing. Is that you, James? The box of trolls? Yeah. Okay. Williams in Yeovil. Question or answer? William? Hi, James. I've got a question. I recently took my new fiance to Cardiff for the weekend. And as well, you're going off her. We left her there as we were going over the border. I said, at least we can say we've now gone on a foreign holiday. She says, that's nonsense. It doesn't count. I think she's just trying to wean another fabulous getaway out of glamorous trip yesterday. Card touch Swansea. Tomorrow, the world. So he's going to Wales from England. A foreign holiday. That's it, Sheila. Well, I'm half Welsh. Thanks, Jones. It is categorically not a foreign holiday. Sheila has spoken. Your cheapskate. Give your fiance a proper break. Take it to Ibiza. She's gonna love you, James. Round of applause for Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much. Richard is in Acton. Richard, question or answer? Answer. Bring it on, sir. Right. CO2. Oh, yes. Right. CO2, when the earth was formed, was like other greenhouse gases. One third of the atmosphere, 300,000 parts per million. Now, as life evolved, carbon was sequestered from the atmosphere, lowering the greenhouse gases, reducing it. So your piece of wood is predominantly lignite, which is carbon, so there's no CO2 in it. If you burn, that piece of it reacts with the oxygen in the air to create carbon dioxide. Burning is an. Is a chemical reaction. So fossil fuels, they're being. Fossil fuels have been called fossilized sunlight, oil, coal, natural gas. Oh, you're brilliant. What are your qualifications, Richard? We're gonna run out of time. You've already. Pardon? Renaissance man, Miranda. Galileo, da Vinci, that sort of person. Fantastic. Fantastic qualifications. Ba hiss no, not at all. Just Renaissance man. That's. That's what I'm going to answer in future. In fact, I may even answer at customs when they ask if you got anything to declare, Jonathan the engineer. It's been emotional, actually. Leave LBC a happy moment. There you go, you see? Round of applause for Jones. Thank you very much. Go give him the other one as well. Thank you very much from me for another day. We'll do it all again on Monday morning from ten. The next vlog.