Why do people speak louder after drinking alcohol?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It is eight minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. That was fascinating, wasn't it? That conversation with Shamir Sani, the whistleblower whose revelations have essentially started that investigation by the electoral commission into Vote leave. Which vote leave tried to sort of spiked the guns of yesterday in cahoots, I would argue, and I use that phrase very, very reluctantly, in cahoots with the BBC. Strange times. Eight minutes after twelve. Nothing strange about what we do now. It's a complete change of pace a little later because that interview overran slightly. Mystery. Ah, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that's not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio, you have bubbling away in the back of your brain somewhere, a mystery. You want to know why we do something we do. You want to know what the origin of that, where that started? Who was the person responsible for who, why, what, where, when, whither, wherefore and even the occasional whence. Whatever your mystery is, somebody listening to the program might be able to solve it. You're not allowed to look stuff up. That's the only rule. You're not allowed to consult search engines or encyclopedias. If you hear someone ask a question and you already know the answer to it, then ring in and tell us what the answer is. If you have unbelievably apposite qualifications for answering that question. If, for example, it's a question about space and you are an astronaut, then it's highly likely you'll receive the highest accolade that british radio can bestow upon a caller to a phone and show a Ray Liotta. You may have heard one earlier in the program when we were discussing the supply chains that Jaguar Land Rover need with continental Europe in order to keep their production facilities open, and a driver who works on the supply chains with continental Europe that Jaguar Land Rover need to keep their facilities open. Rangin, that's classic Rayleigh otter territory. In the context of mystery hour, it's often a little bit more surprising or amusing. Don't ask me questions about motoring. They're too boring, generally speaking. Or repetition is kind of my job. Ava and Sandra are answering the phones today and neither of them have done mystery hour for a particularly long period of time. So it falls to me to try to keep an eye on repetition. Don't ring in really obvious stuff about baby pigeons and white dog poo and stuff like that. If we've been doing this for years and we have and you've got a question that is right up there in the hardy perennials of why? Chances are we've already dealt with it or decided that we don't want to sounding ungrateful again and unwelcoming I do apologize and if you hear me say the number it means I've got a phone line free. So it is the busiest hour of the week on what is the busiest switchboard in the business but don't be put off because there's a large churn. We turn people over quite a lot on this a lot of people ring in and politely invite to move along because their question isn't quite right for mystery hour or it's something that we can remember dealing with relatively recently so if you hear me say 034-560-6097 it means that if you hit the numbers at that point you have a better than even chance of getting through to the studio. For example, at the moment there's three finalized free right now I'll only do one origins of a week generally speaking otherwise it's a bit odd that otherwise it turns into a kind of celebration of Brewer's dictionary a phrase and fable and when you ring in to answer your question I will ask you what your qualifications are but you don't have to say I've got a PhD in particle physics it could be I saw it on the telly last night, James, or I learnt it at school I won't take common sense there's no answer unless it's true eleven minutes after twelve. Should we crack on? I think we should. David is in rice lip. David, question or answer? I have a question James. Carry on David. We were out for lunch with a group of friends the other week so we were sat around a great big table and it had a couple of wine notes to be called lazy Susans on it and it got me thinking why do we call them that? Who's Susie and why is she lazy? This is the. The wheel in the middle of the table that you used to spin around I've only ever really seen them in chinese restaurants were you in a chinese restaurant? No, it was a big indian restaurant okay. Yeah, because it's sharing dishes, isn't it? That's the point about a lazy Susan that's why I'd have gone for it. You finish your bit and then spin it around and then. And then your friend takes their bit. Yeah lazy Susan. I suppose it's a lazy waitress, isn't it? Or. Yeah but why Lazy Susan. I like that question. How long has it been preying on your mind? And you've been thinking, I know what I'll do, I'll ring mystery. I think it's one of those, we went out for lunch a few weeks ago and it's just bugged me since. But I suppose I've never. Well, I've never known, hence why I'm calling now, and hence why someone will hopefully get you an answer. But I'll stress that you're not allowed to look stuff up. And equally, if you're thinking, well, why didn't David just look it up himself? Because we're trying to remember, this is a little hour of the week, okay? 1 hour in the week, where we still live in the olden days, when you had to know stuff and you had knowledge, you couldn't just google it or look it up. So that's not just a celebration of knowledge, it's a celebration of curiosity as well. That's why it started, oddly. It sort of fell off the back of a conversation about calculators in exams, I think. And it was just a realization that my children who weren't born, I don't think, when mystery hour started, good grief, that makes me feel old. But my children don't need knowledge in the way that I did. It's. It's a real shame, in a way, but, you know, we're still fighting. Robert's in Willsden. Robert, question or answer the question, James. Carry on, Robert. Why? Why are some people ticklish and others aren't? Is anyone, like, completely unticklish? Well, is it not just degrees of ticklishness? I don't know. Some people are completely un ticklish. I've never met anyone who's completely unticklish. My wife, you can't tickle her. She just doesn't know every. Under the arms, on the balls of the feet, under the arms, anywhere. Just, no, I'm not ticklish. Rip ticklish, mind over matter thing. Really? I don't know. Yeah. And then my eldest daughter, she isn't ticklish either. Not even a little bit ticklish? Not even a little bit. Just straight face like, why? Why are you doing that? Is it possible you're really bad at tickling? No, because I'm not the only one who has tried. Well, you're not. Other people have risen to this challenge and failed as well. Well, yeah. Her sisters try to tickle her and she's like, yep, that's the last. Cause I wonder if it's genetic. I wonder if your daughter's inherited it from your wife. I don't know. I know you don't know. You're not a geneticist and you wouldn't have rung mystery out to ask a question if you were. No, obviously not. What? How ticklish are you? Well, I tried to brave it, but I'm ticklish, so my daughter was tickling me the other day and I pretended that I'm no longer ticklish and it lasted for about a second. Busted you wide open. And your other daughter is ticklish? Yeah. The one who tried to tickle me is ticklish. But the one. The other one. It's going to be something to do with nerve endings. Yeah, but how is it different in different people? I don't know. We're going to find out. It's lovely. I like it. I don't know that I've ever come across someone who's completely unticklish. I would personally take that as a challenge. I would not accept it. But obviously Richard's put in the hard yards. I beg your pardon? Robert's put in the hard yard, so he knows that it has validity. It's 12:15 two questions on the board. Origins of lazy Susan's this kind of wheel in the middle of the table. And what makes you ticklish? Because the question is about people who aren't ticklish. So we need to start at the beginning, don't we? What makes you ticklish and why are some people not remotely ticklish at all? 1215 is the time. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. Origins of the phrase lazy Susan and I want a biological or genetic explanation of ticklishness that includes an answer to the question of why some people aren't remotely ticklish at all. A couple of phone lines free. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you'd like to grab one of them, you can answer those two questions or some of the questions that are forthcoming. Or, of course, you can ask one of your own. Do you know, I've done it again. Ah, man. I had a massive question this week, a really good one, and I forgot. It's just the most. It's like jokes, isn't it? It's never any good at remembering jokes. I only got about three jokes. You must have heard them all a million times if you listen to this program. It's the same with mister. I think to myself, oh, I know, I have a go myself this week on mister. I'll ask about that. And then Thursday, 12:00 comes round. It's gone. Richard's in Nottingham. Richard, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. So this is from my girlfriend. She asked me to ask you this. Okie dokie. Basically, she has a different blood type to her mum. Yes. And she doesn't understand how that's possible, being as when she. When her mum was pregnant with her, they were effectively sharing blood. Yes. So how can it be that they have a different blood type? Something to do with the placenta, isn't it? Quite possibly. I'm not really. I don't really have a clue about anything scientific, so I might use the messenger. Nor do I. I mean, the short answer is because her blood type will be defined by both of her parents, but then she wants to know how she could have had a different blood type to her mother while she was in the womb. Because the umbilical cord pumps blood into the baby from the mum. Exactly. Like, is there a point after the baby's born where a separate blood type develops, or is it just determined in conception? I like this question. I think the answer is just going to be the placenta. But you're going to need more than that, aren't you? I think so. Like a bit of why, rather than just what. Also, you'd need to have some confidence that the person who said placenta knew what they were talking about more than I do. Yeah, quite possibly. That's very polite of you, Richard. Let me see. Why couldn't your girlfriend ring in herself? She's at work. She's. She's a teacher. Fair enough, fair enough. She can't. We shall do our best. How can a baby and mother and baby have different blood types? Zero. 345-606-0973 Stuart's in Woodgreen. Stuart, question or answer? Hi, James. Yeah, I've got a question for you. Carry on, mate. Basically is if you. People say, like, if you go to the gym, it takes like, 3 hours to wear off a Mars bar that you've eaten. Yeah. How many. How many hours would it take of, like, doing sukudo to do the same sort of thing? Does your brain use, like, more calories whilst you're doing maths? I like that question. You've heard it, have you? No, I said I like it. Oh, we like it. All right. Yeah, I like it a lot. So, I mean, does thinking hard use up more calories than not thinking hard? Yeah, basically, yeah. So, theoretically, people who listen to this program with an open mind should be slimmer and healthier than the trolls. Yeah. Hate thinking. That. Probably explains quite a lot, actually. Why have you been wondering about that? What a lovely question. Don't I? Just popped in my head. Might save me some money down the gym. Well, I tell you, I'm just going to sit there and think really hard. Think you. Well, no, hang on. Let's not. Let's not spoil it by thinking about it too hard, because it might turn out to be quite a silly question if we do that. Yeah, you're on, you're on, you're on, you're on. Where are you at the moment? I can hear a lovely bird song in the background. I'm just at work in Chingford at the minute. I thought you might be down at one scrub. You're on, Stuart. I shall get you an answer that does. Is there any relationship between intellectual exertions and calorie consumption? Almost certainly not, but it'll be lovely to find out for sure. Cracking question next in Barcelona. This is getting ridiculous now. All my listeners seem to be overseas. Is there no decent radio stations in Spain, Nick? No, there aren't, James. Fair enough. Question or answer? Question. Please carry on. If a meteorite were heading for earth, like in the Bruce Willis film Armageddon, funnily enough, not on quite the same subject, but I'm just getting reports from listeners that there might have been an earthquake in Surrey. I didn't feel it here. Well, that would be some earthquake. But I just. I just mentioned that no one's gonna be able to get through to the studio because it's mystery. But anyway, carry on. So. I beg your pardon? A meteorite, like in the Bruce Willis film Armageddon, is it? And we're talking about a size just. Just big enough to have catastrophic global effect. Yes. How much notice would we actually get? Well, doesn't it matter how fast the meteorite is traveling? I don't know, James. Nor do I. I mean, is it. Is it a real thing? People are looking in the right direction, how fast it's going. I suppose there are a lot of variables, but they keep saying we're going to see this comet passing here, we're going to see. And they seem to have a good idea. If a meteorite was on course to smash into us in a way that could actually be quite seriously damaging, how much notice would we get? Likely to get? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Best case scenario? Best guess. Yeah. And I wonder. Smallish. Smallish. Just. Just big enough to have catastrophic effects. Yeah, no, I get that, I get that. What, um. What would you do if you had, like, 12 hours? Oh, if I had 12 hours. It would be, find the wife and child and just sort of have a cuddle. Enjoy. Yeah, sorry, I shouldn't have answered that question. I shouldn't have asked that question, mate, should I? Well, it was bleak enough in the first 2 hours talking about Brexit, now we're talking about the end of the world. No, I would do exactly the same. I would do exactly the same. What else would you do? Start singing together and cuddling and just sort of, you know, not going gently into that. Good night. Thank you, Nick. What would happen? How much notice do we get from meteorites heading towards earth? How much energy does thinking involve? So if you're doing something really intellectual, could you potentially be losing more weight than if you were just, oh, I don't know, gammoning around different blood types for mother and baby? How come? Ticklishness. Genetical or biological explanation, please. And why is a lazy Susan called? A lazy Susan? Vicki is in northampton. Vicky, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, please. It's an answer to your question about baby's hemoglobin. Babies do babies blood type. They do have different blood types to their mum. It's determined, as you quite rightly said, by the genetics of both parents. But you were quite right when you mentioned the placenta. Yes, absolutely. Placenta plays the part of a filter, so it filters through what is and isn't allowed to pass through from mum to baby. So all of those helpful things like oxygen and nutrients and antibodies pass through. But the baby's blood is the baby's blood and the mum's blood is the mum's blood. They're quite separate qualifications. Community midwife for eleven years. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Vicky, please. Thanks very much. Good work, Vicky, nicely done. Hello. Bye bye. 26 off twelve. Richard's in maidenhead. Richard, question or answer? Answer. James. Good morning. Hello. Which question would you like to answer, Richard? It's a tickley one. Oh, yeah, go on. No one can tickle or family can't tickle me. The reason is I did yoga for many years and so when anyone tries to tickle me, I just relax and totally relax the body and it's totally unticklish. Annoys my wife no end. I suspect that that's not really an answer to the question, is it? It's as best. It's one reason that, you know, it's. I suppose it's nerve engines, really, but you just. No, you. The fact that you relax and don't end up ticklish, doesn't explain why some people are ticklish and some people aren't. Yeah. Because they tense. Because they tense. No, it's not okay. You can't be that. If I had a feather, I could tickle you. I might. If you gave me your foot and I had a feather, I would make you laugh. Yes, I would challenge you on that. Never mind, James. No, no, I'm not having it, you know. Absolutely not. It just can't be that, because it's got to be by. There's got to be a biological explanation for it. David is in Amsterdam. This is. What is it that the racist said during the referendum? It's the National Health Service. Look, we're leading Britain's conversation, not leading the world's conversation. Why are all these people ringing me from foreign lands? David, question or answer? How's life in Amsterdam? Brilliant. I'm an expat. Anglo Anglo Dutch. Lovely stuff. What is your answer? My answer is, it has to be correlated with the calories, because the brain use more than other organ of calories. So it's estimated about 40%. 40% of calories are consumed by the brain. Yes. Even when you are sleeping, your brain is fully active. So if I. I mean, people who listen to this program and understand it, will they be losing more weight than all the gammen who listen to this program and just start shouting fish at the radio? Maybe. Maybe it doesn't work, but it depends also on your. Do I burn more calories if I think harder? No, no, no. It depends on the quality of the calories. What calories goes in? It's not the same as calories goes out. No, you're quite right, of course. So, yes, the brain uses up calories, but no, the level of thinking or doing a sudoku instead of watching Love island is not going to use up more calories or less calories. Fewer calories. No. That's why, you see, most of these philosophers are thin, not overweight. Qualifications? Medical doctor and neuroscientist. Seriously? Yes. And an ephesus. An actual neuroscientist? Yes, I work with brains. A brain surgeon? No, I'm a brain scientist. Not a brain surgeon. No, I know that. I know that. I know that. I was going to do a joke about. It's not brain surgery, but I realized as soon as I said the word surgeon that a scientist is not this. I'm going to give you a Ray Liotta. All right. One other thing. Yes? You blocked me on Twitter. Well, I'm sure you deserved it. I don't know. I blocked about five and a half thousand people. I blocked about five and a half thousand people on Twitter, so don't take it as a compliment. Don't take it as a compliment or a badge of honor. It's called curating my environment. Tell Sandra your Twitter handle after I've given you a Rayleigh otter and I shall investigate whether or not your fan club in Amsterdam all blocks all it was. I mean, it's just you. You are my fan club in Amsterdam to give you twitter handle to Sandra. Give your Twitter handle to Sandra and I shall investigate. I might do a stewards inquiry, but I'm going to give you a Ray Liotta. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Brain scientist. That's the third person this week who complained about being blocked on Twitter. Met a lovely lady at the public speaking thing that I judged on Monday as well. Depends on my mood. I obviously block idiots immediately, but sometimes I block people for really no reason at all, just sort of mild irritation. But hey ho, Glenn Thompson's here now with the news headlines. 1234 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. See where we have questions that need answering. Lazy Susan. Ticklish. What explains ticklishness? The brain cells question I thought was beautifully answered. And how much notice do we get if a meteorite is heading towards earth that might have a negative impact on earth? Have we had any phone calls from the Surrey earthquake yet? Can we? Can't really. The phones are full. I'm being sent pictures now, but I've got no way of telling whether they're true or not. Steve's in Southgate. Steve, question or answer? Uh, question, please carry on, Steve. My mother in law just told me that, um, having apples next to a banana keeps the bananas fresh and we did that the weekend and she. It's. She's right. Yes, I think. I think they also. I think bananas also hasten the ripening of an avocado. Pear, actually, as well. I think. Seriously, you work, you know, obviously, in restaurants. I know. I know a lot about fruit. But why? Why? Yeah, well, yeah, all right, I'll put it on the board. It's to do with the air, isn't it? They obviously release a gas. Well, I know you put bananas and potatoes into your fridge. Not potatoes. Don't put potatoes in the fridge. Yeah, you do. No, you mustn't. No, you mustn't do that. Never put a potato in the fridge. Seriously? Or a tomato, actually, a lot of people put tomatoes in the fridge and then they wonder why their sandwiches are ranked. So you want to know why does. Why does some fruit have a ripening effect upon other fruit? That's the one. So it stops apples from continuing to ripen, you think? And I think that it advances the ripening process of an avocado pearl. It's all about gases, mate. But you're not going to take that as an answer, are you? No, I don't. I don't blame you. Yeah, well, obviously you do, but I've already used up my brain scientists. I've used up my neuroscientist in Amsterdam, so I don't know if it's a bit. It's a bit cocky to think that we might get another one along in a minute. They're not like buses, mate. You know. Neuroscientists. 1236. Thank you. Steve Martin is in Epping. Martin, question or answer? It's a question. I'm actually in Milan. I'll shut up. I am. What, really? Yes. Working in a man on a digital payment system. Well, I think today, leading Britain's conversation has had a majority of calls from overseas. Can we. Can we just count back? Everyone's too busy doing this show. Martin's in Milan, Amsterdam. Milan, Norway, France. Two. Francis? An island. Spain. We had a Barcelona. That's seven calls. How many calls? Japan. What? We just need New York and Japan. I'm too sexy. Yeah, I know, mate. So I've heard. Question or answer, Martin. The question is, why do we talk louder when we've had alcohol? Is it just inhibitions, generally, that go, or is it separate from the general dilution of inhibitions? I can't hear. No. I don't know. Do you have a professor, public understanding of alcohol? I've got a few, actually. I almost got a PhD myself in that one. I shall, um. I should try and find out. Why do we talk louder when we drunk alcohol? And I'm pretty sure we do. Or do we, though? Because it's only when you're in company. Maybe it's got something to do with your hearing rather than your actual volume. Anyway, I'm thinking out loud. Martin. Thank you. Safe journey home from Milan. Is that. Is it possible we've had more calls from overseas than we've had from within the United Kingdom today? That would be astonishing, wouldn't it? Tell you what, it can't be far off. Nick Simalo. Nick, question or answer? Hi, it's a question. Please carry on. I'd like to know, why is the majority of the population right handed? I believe it's something like 10% are left handed. Yes. Is it something that we're sort of biologically predisposed to use our right, or is it something that's taught? That's quite a nice question, actually. I mean, you think it was evolution or natural selection, wouldn't you? You'd think that somehow being right handed gave you an evolutionary advantage and that it gets passed on. No, it's definitely not taught in schools, because they tried to teach people not to be left handed. It used to. That's where the word sinister comes from. It used to have all sorts of negative connotations being left handed, and it doesn't work. You can teach someone to write, but they still reach for the right side of that. I like that. Yeah. I mean, it probably is natural selection. I can't see what else it would be. But then why would being right handed give you an advantage in life? Yeah, there's stuff that. I mean, even if you're using a pen, but that's not going to have had an evolutionary impact, is it? Right. I'll see what I can do for you, Nick. I like that question. Why are you left handed, by the way? No, I'm right handed. My father's left handed. Oh, okay. That's fine. Let's try and find out. So, we want to know why the massive majority of the population is right handed. We want to know why we talk more loudly when we have had a few bevies. We want to know why some fruit affects the ripening rate of other fruit. We want to know how much notice we would get if a meteorite was heading towards the earth. And we want to know why a lazy Susan is called a lazy Susan. Also ticklishness, as well. What makes some people more ticklish than others? Tisha is in Norfolk. It's a big place. Whereabouts in Norfolk are you, Tisha? Near a place called West Raynham. Near a place called West Raynham. So within spitting distance of Fakenham? Yes. Lovely. I know it extremely well. It's one of my favorite parts of the world. Question or answer, Tisha. It certainly is. We were wondering, when you buy a house and a garden, how much ground do you own beneath the garden that you buy? Is it three foot, six foot? Do we own, you know, down to half the world? We just. No, you can't, because if you lived in London, you'd be coming out on the northern line, wouldn't you? Ah, yes, but we don't, you see, so maybe there are different rules for people. Rural places as opposed to town places. Do you remember the magnificent Fred Dibna off the telly? Yes. Yes. I think he built a coal mine in his back garden. Did he? I think he planning on that. What are you planning? Well, nothing really. We were just being nosy and wondering. Are you sure? Absolutely. You haven't got some sort of evil master plan bubbling away in the background in west Raynham? No, none at all. The blight of leafy suburbia at the moment is basements. People are digging out their basements and making their neighbors lives hell. So there's obviously some sort of ownership issue that goes down. But it's a lovely question. How far down can you go? Because Tisha wants to open up a little copper mine in western. We shall see what we can do. Tisha, thank you for the. For the question. 1241 is the time. Need some answers, don't we? How far down do you own? Right handed alcohol? Fruit ripening meteorites? Zero. 345-606-0973 I need some answers. I've got loads of questions coming in, but I really need some answers because glancing at the clock, we are going to run out of time. I'd also like some eyewitness accounts of the earthquake in Surrey. Tim's in team Tim. Question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Simple question. Has anybody had a star taken away from them on the Hollywood Walker fame? I like that question. I like the way you asked it. You asked if you are actually a quiz master in a pub quiz. I'm doing a pub quiz tonight, actually. As a contestant or as a quiz master? No, no, it's a contestant. I've got some friends listening or doing it with them, so I'm trying to g them up. I like it. I like it. Has anybody ever had a star on the Hollywood Walker fan? They must have done mostly fatty Arbuckle or someone like that who's got into terrible. You know what? What? That is exactly the man that made me think about it. I was looking him up on Wikipedia. Really? He was a. It was a bit of a wrong and he was a bit of a wrong and. Yeah, that's for sure. But I don't know when Star started on. On, on Broadway. Broadway. It's not Broadway. Is it some Sunset boulevard? Is it? Is it Sunset Boulevard walk of fame? You've got me there. I don't know. We'll find out if anyone ever had their star removed. I'm gonna have to start excising questions and putting through more answers. I only need answers. I don't know if I got time for any more anymore. Answers. Hollywood Boulevard, of course, is. Has anyone ever had their star taken off the walk of fame on Hollywood Boulevard? Paul is in Lewisham. Paul, question or answer? Hi there. Afternoon. Gets an answer. Please carry on. Okay. I'm a bit edgy, actually. Don't worry, mate, it's only me. No one's ever had a row on mystery hour. It's about that lazy Susan thing. Oh, yeah. It was actually invented by, believe it or not, Thomas Jefferson. The president. Yeah. He had, like, five or six kids, and the youngest one was always complaining that her food was getting cold. I mean, this sounds plausible, but also, if you were going to make something up, this would be a brilliant way because it's got just the right mixture of plausibility and intrigue. No, it's true. I'll tell you why. I know it. A few months ago, not on that much, but it was on a cruise in Mediterranean, and when you're at sea, there's not that much to do. So there was a trivia days to be on trivia cruise. Like, six of them each day. Oh, yeah. And one of them got it. My nose kicking it, you know. One of them was, don't worry, mate. Don't worry. One of them was like, american history round. And that actually was the question, who invented the lazy Susan? Good grief. And he gave the answer and the whole room just said, like, no, showed up, be lying. Yeah, yeah. And then, uh, he said, okay, this is God's smartphone. Look it up. And we all had to apologize then and there. And it was there Thomas Jefferson was responsible for, if not inventing, then introducing them to sort of polite society. I don't know. Nor do I, but I do now. Round of applause for you, Paul. Great stuff, mate. I always thought you never got anything useful out going on cruises. Yeah, that's what we were laughing because all over the place on there. Right, it's 1245. Back in a moment. It's 1248. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Sure. We've not got many rounds of applauses today. We need to crack on with some answers. Let's go to Maria. She's in Hampton. Maria, question or answer? Hi, James. Big fan of your show. Oh, you're very kind. I'm a big fan of yours. What have you got for me? The fruit ripening. Oh, splendid. Yes. That is due to hormones. So the plant produces a hormone called ethylene, which ripens the fruit. So if you put a ripening banana into a brown paper bag with, say, a hard pear or some kind of unripe fruit, the ethylene comes out of the banana and it has a ripening effect on the pear or other fruits at the same time in a gaseous form. Yes. And the original question suggested that putting a banana next to an apple keeps the apple fresh. But that's not true. It would actually speed up ripening. He might have got. I mean, he probably just didn't want to contradict his mother in law. The original question, what are your qualifications, Maria? I'm an. Or test horticulturist. A water what? A water what a. What is. Oh, an RHS. Oh. Royal Horticultural Society horticulturalist. That's right. That's pretty strong, isn't it? I mean, is that just the qualification or do you work at Wesley or somewhere like that? I have the qualification and I have worked for the archdef in the past. Get in. Round of applause. Very nearly a ray Liotta. But, I mean, it's gardening. It's not like, you know, neuroscience. Be grateful for your round of applause. 1249 is the time. Thank you, Maria. Mark is in catering. Mark, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Mark, do you own the property beneath your house? Years ago, when the Channel Tunnel was being built, it went under Bluebell Hill and they got paid quite a few thousand pounds for the property land that was actually underneath. It wasn't everyone in the area who got it it, because I thought it was compensation, but she said notes to do with the land underneath. How come? Do you know women? You haven't really answered the question. Have you just shared an interesting anecdote? Because there's no. Because some people did and some people didn't. How much did she own? How far down does it go? Well, I meant giving you part of it, but she obviously owns some of it because they paid her to put it through it and it was a purchase rather than a. Yeah, because some people nearby but didn't get it. And only those actually beneath. Directly beneath it got it. And it's not for disruption. It is actually for property ownership. Yeah, that's. That's what she was told. We don't know how far down. The question was, how far down do I own? I know. You just wanted to share your quality story, didn't you? That's fair enough. I'll give you half a half a round of applause. That's very awesome. You're very welcome. Well, great work, Ivan. He hasn't done a half a round of applause before. I love the way he rose to the challenge. 1251 at a time. Mark, mind how you go. Ed's in St Albans. Ed, question or answer? Hi, James. That's in Mallorca for you, so I thought I'd add to your list. You're not in Majorca. I am. People are trolling me now. No, it says St Albans. I could prove that you're in Mallorca. I'll tweet you in a minute. Hang on. When I'm done, I'll send you a tweet. All right. So we are now moving into the very real possibility that over 50% of the course of the program today have been from overseas. This is surreal. Gone. Right, fill your boots, Ed. What have you got with regards to drinking and hearing and not being able to hear and talking loudly? Yes, so last time I had an ear infection, which fortunately isn't too frequently, I asked my doctor why it hurts more than a drink. Oh, yeah. Because it's weird. And he said, I don't know the science behind it, just the fact that when you drink alcohol, I guess it might be something to do with the numbing of all the nerves in your body, but the auditory nerve shrinks and that's what transfers the information, I believe, from the cochlea to your brain. So you're not actually talking more loudly because of the alcohol. It's because you can't hear yourself as well, because the auditory nerve shrinks. That's what I talk more loudly. Makes sense. And, yeah, that's the fact. That is the science behind it. You just explained the science behind it. Well, there we have it. Qualifications. Doctor told me. Patient of a doctor. I'll do nicely. Round of applause, Fred. Say again? I'll send you a nice picture. Yeah, do prove that you're in New York. Although you could have just got it from anywhere. It could be like that time Daniel Hannan was wandering around the english countryside and tweeted a photograph of it that turned out to have come. Come from the Internet. What a weird thing to do. But anyway, that was back in the days when we thought that there could possibly be brexit supporters who weren't fundamentally and ultimately a bit weird. 1252 is the time Sajid Javid is speaking to the House of Commons. Speaking to a very, very empty House of Commons, actually, about the Novichok poisoning in Salisbury. I'm sure that any details emerging there will be brought to you during the news bulletin at twelve noon. Before that, we can get a few more in on this, looking for answers. Why have we started using capital letters on my screen? It makes me feel like quite an old person. It's Keith. Keith is in. Team Keith. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Bring it on, Keith. Well, it's sort of an answer. Is it the left handed one? Yeah. What do you mean, a sort of an answer? Well, there's not a definitive answer, I'm afraid. That's all right. I run a company called anything left hand. You don't get to get a free advert until you're invited to. Oh, sorry. That's all right. One of the only rules of the program. I wasn't born yesterday, mate. The advertising department have a rates card that I'm happy to send to you, but you don't get to get a free advert unless I decide you deserve one. Apologies and it's not looking good. Keith, I've been involved with this for a long time. Carry on. I've been trying to find that answer and read hundreds of books about it and met many people. There is a genetic link in that. There are some genes that give a preference for left handedness, but it's not predictable in the same way as eye color or other things. Could there be an evolutionary argument? I mean, is there an advantage to being right handed, or is it chicken and egg? It's just that the world is built for right handed people. Research on Stone age implements say they're divided fairly equally between left and right. Oh, really? Really. More sophisticated. Sophisticated. A hand preference became an advantage. We didn't have to make two different versions of the same thing, but we don't know why they went one way or not the other. There are theories about sun worship and moving from left to right in the northern hemisphere. There are theories about the position of the heart with a weapon. You have to hold a shield in your left hand and a weapon in your right. And there are many other theories, but nothing definitive, I'm afraid. Keith, you have redeemed yourself. What is the name of the company? It's anything lefthanded. Co. UK. And this is for what's your most popular product? Scissors. The thing we sell most of. There's hundreds and hundreds of pages of information about all aspects of left handedness and helping children and all sorts. Oh, I'm glad that I've mellowed in old age and allowed you to give yourself a little plug, despite the fact that you very cynically tried to smuggle one in uninvited. You also get a round of applause. I'm overflowing with bounty today. Have a round of applause. Ridiculous. Um, Julie is in York. Question or answer? Julie. Hello, James. Hello, Julie. I'm here to explain what the lady Susan expression. Oh, I thought we'd done it already. Oh, I've got a different explanation. Well, the more the merrier. Carry on. Right. Well, I'm. Traditionally, Susan is a generic name for a servant. Okay. The character of Susanna in Mary Jeff Figaro. Yes. You've got Susan Nipper in Dickens's dombey and son. Yes. These servile connotations of the name still linger and they're picked up by a terry pratchett in his Discworld novels where death's granddaughter is called Susan. Gosh. And she doesn't like the name. No, but you are. We are veering away from the table furniture in chinese restaurants. All right, yes. I'm just kind of saying where the name has gone and the fact it's still got these psychological connotations. Yes, but we don't know. Why is a lazy Susan called a lazy Susan? Because it's a lazy servant. Is that the art of it? Well, it's a servant, yes, yes, because a servant doesn't have to be there. That's very true. I like your answer. I'm going to give you a round of applause because, frankly, I'm overcome with generosity and decency today. What are your qualifications, Judy? I'm a cultural historian with a doctorate in english literature. I say, doctor. Julie, I apologize I didn't give you your full title. And whereabouts in York are you, if you don't mind me inquiring? Oh, I'm not far from Booboo Crescent, just up the road from there. Beautiful part of the country. Beautiful part of the city. Can I tell you a secret that will make you think less of me? Right. I'm still barred from Oscar's wine bar. Oh, dear. I know, yeah. Round of applause for Julie misspent youth. 1256 is the time. I mean, I say I'm still barred. I was barred for life, but there's no earthly way that. Even if they've got a picture of an 18 year old me behind the bar, if I went in now, there's no earthly way they'd know that I was still. But I won't even have the same staff. The owners, probably. Paul's in Watford. Paul. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Why do you sound so surprised? You're a clever fellow. And also, I'm in the cultural mecca of Watford in the UK. That's more like it back down to earth with a bump. Carry on. Okay. If the answer about land title and how much you own above and how much you own below goes back. It goes it in Latin. Whoever owns the soil holds the title all the way up to the heavens and down to the depths of hell. But if they found oil under my house, I wouldn't be allowed to keep it. It's not. It's yours. It's not. It's not. It's not. No. It would say they'll have to buy rights. If they have to drill on your property, they have to pay you. So what if I dig down? Do I get into trouble at any point? Well, it's a bit of a costly. Yeah, I know, but I've often fancied. I've often fancied doing this, getting. Buying a drill. When I retire, I'm going to buy a large drill, and I'm just going to drill down until I can't drill down any further. It sounds boring on the radio. You're going to be boring in your guard. I'll give him a round of applause. What are your qualifications? I've done a lot of development, and it's something that comes over and you can dig down. So if I could put in five basements under my house, if I had the money to do it. Ava's furious. She thinks you're wrong. Who put him through, then, if he's so wrong, Sandra put you through. Ava thinks you're horribly, horribly wrong. I've given you a round of applause, but that was for the joke, not for the answer. Okay, James, you're on. How do you make. Mind you go squeezing one or two more. David is in Battersea. David, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Well, it's about the meteorite. How much warning would we get if one was about to smash into the earth? Well, the real problem is, how much are we looking? So all telescopes and programs around the world are only looking at a few percentage of the sky. So we can only see a meteorite when it goes past something like a black mark in front of another star. So the trouble with that is, yes, we're looking, but we may not see it that soon if it's not that large. So you're the gentleman. I've got to hurry up. Tom Sawbert's not as patient as Sheila Fergus. Give me the. Give me the punchline. The punchline is, if we don't see it coming, it'll hit us. So we may only get the kind of distance when it's out as far as Mars, which is maybe a couple of weeks. Three weeks. Okay. Great answer. Qualifications? My father was a science teacher. That sounds like a sort of country and western song. Thank you very much, David. Well played. A round of applause quickly for David. Tom Sawbridge here. I gotta go.