Why are nurseries called nurseries?

O'Brien on LBC. Blimey, that's quite a talk off, isn't it? You know how it works by now. If you don't, I'll give you a quick heads up. If you do, why not bagsy your place on the board? I just referring back, if you're listening to the podcast, you should have tuned into the show live. Actually, last I was fascinating. I was still reading some of the emails about what you can do to cover up your class or to hide your class. And I love the notion of replacing anything that has an owl sound with an I sound. So heis instead of house brine. Windsor soup, probably the two ronnies did a whole sketch on it. But that's the kind of magic you're missing. If you're only tuning in for mystery hour, let me just briefly tell you what mystery hour is. You know those newspaper features where something's puzzling you? You want to know why we do something, or what the origin of something is or where something comes from, how something works, why something works when something works and you just don't know. You know there must be an answer, but you don't know what it is. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you've got one of those questions. Only two rules. Don't be dull. That's your lookout. Obviously, we don't like telling people that they're not going to come on because they're boring, but we have to. If you insist on ringing in with boring questions and no repetition, that's our lookout. And at the moment, it's really mine. Caroline's only been on mystery out for seven months. It's been running for more than seven years. So the likelihood of us spotting a question as repetitious is diminishing. It's diminishing weekly. You can go to LBC dot co dot UK and have a look at the archive. And it's funny, it's great fun, the archive, actually. Even if you're not there for a particular purpose, you can while away an hour or two looking at some of the questions and answers that we've dealt with in the past, but no repetition and no dullness, ideally. And that's it, actually. Everything else is up for grabs. You've got a question, then ring in with it. If you've got an answer to a question that somebody else asks, then zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I think that's it. So we'll crack on, shall we? And you can work it out. And if you hear me say the number, it means I've got phone lines free and it doesn't happen very often. Okay, that's true. Throughout the week, actually, not just on mystery hour. I'll say the phone number when I've got phone lines free. If you don't say the phone number, you end up speaking to the same very small number of people every single day. So that's why I say it. When there are phone lines free. Ron is in Bethnal Green. Ron, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. And I understand it's lunchtime, so I'm not be too graphic with this question, but I just want to know what is it that makes sweet corn so amazing that it survives the digestive system? It's the husk. But why is what the skin on the outside, it's like if you don't. If you don't. It is a little bit indelicate, this question, but we will crack on, if you pardon the pun. The husk. It's the thickness of the. There's nothing else you eat like that. It'd be like swallowing an apple whole, which isn't obviously possible. No, but if it was. No, no, no, no. Why did you put this through? This is disgusting. Why is Ron on talking about his doings? It's amazing. Well, it is amazing, but it only happens if you don't chew it. If you swallow it whole. The stomach acid can't break down the cellulose, the thickness of the cellulose in the husk on the. If husk is the right word. But the covering of the corn, of the niblet. Oh, that's a great word. Say it again. Niblet. The covering of the niblet is so thick that the stomach acid break it down. So the actual lining of the stomach away as well. So it's that acidic, but it's that hard. What is that? We need Professor Howard. No way, mate. No, this is Occam's razor. What you're just saying because it's whole. It's impenetrable. That's what you're saying. Yeah. No, because of the thickness. The thickness of the epidermis on the niblet. It's only a thin, chewy. Yeah, but there's no other possible explanation for this, man. Yeah, but why? Because it's not because it's whole. Because the skin. It's because the skin is so thick it can't be broken down and you see it only on the whole ones because they've still got the yellow filling skin and someone poured acid over me. Would that burn me? No. Now you're just being silly. I'm not. You are. Just say niblet. Say niblet. Say niblet. Say it. Why? I want you to say niblet. Niblet. Niblet. Niblets. Ron wants to know about niblets. I'm not happy with your answer, though. Don't care. I'm in charge. Give me a round of applause. Got a round of applause? Someone to call him a bit more specific. That's what I want, a bit more specific, you know, more specific. I just want to hear people say niblets until 01:00 today. Just ring in and say. No, don't do that. Used to be. What was the word? Used to just ring in and say, I can't remember. Michael's in Victoria. Michael, question or answer? I've got a question. Please, Jane. Bring it on, Michael. This one's a bit more middle class. Good, good. After old niblets, honey, we need to raise the tone of it. My question is, why are all garden centers called nurseries? I've been visiting a few sort of month or so and they're all called nurseries and I don't understand why. I've been thinking it might have something to do with maybe hepatitis children, but none of them do. Oh, well, I presume it was because they grow things from scratch, so they nurse. Nurse the plant for a while and then give it to you. That's plausible. I can't go definitive on that because I just nicked a round of applause with niblets and I don't want to squeeze two in before it's even 12:10 but I'll be very surprised if the answer isn't to do with nurture, you know, nursery nurture. You nurture the plant for a while, from birth, as it were, or from, you know, planting, sowing, and then sell it to a punter like you, I guess. Well, if that be the case, I shall give you a round of applause myself. You're very kind. Why have you been spending so much time in? Sounds a bit inappropriate, doesn't it? You say, why have you been spending so much time in nurseries? Why have you been spending so much time in garden centers? Well, my wife loves doing the garden up and being summertime that time of year. Front of the house. Looking good. Good stuff. Well, good luck. Nine minutes after twelve is the time zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Thank you, Aidan, kudos for your use of the term Occam's razor during a discussion about sweet corn. Niblets. Niblets. Markey's in Cheshire. That's a bit broad. Whereabouts in Cheshire, Marky? Hi, James. First time, call us for the show. You're very welcome. Niblets before saying Niblett. Thank you. Robots. Pad gates. Don't know it. Oh, crikey. Be seeing Manchester. Liverpool. All right, well, that's it. Doesn't really narrow it down from Cheshire much. The pad gates? Yeah, Pad gate. I've never heard of Pad gate. I thought I knew the northwest inside out. I'm not going to ask anyone else where they're calling from. Can we change it to Padgate for next time? I can pretend that I know. Marky. Question or answer? It's a question, mate. On. Right. How come and most hairdressers are closed on a Monday? Not a used one, but it's just having sex because they're open on a Saturday. Is that it? Yeah, five day week. But barbers are open on a Saturday as well. But they, they open on a Monday. But they might have a different. I mean, some barbers are shot on a Monday but the genuine reason, usually, apart from fishmongers, when it used to be to do with fish deliveries at weekends. Barbers. And ask me what my qualifications are. What are you qualification? I am a patron of a hairdresser's cum barbers in Acton called Arthur Razor on Churchfield Road, which is a brilliant, brilliant hairdresser responsible for turning this scruffy get into someone who hasn't yet been dismissed from every television studio in the country. And my friend Antonio, Tony H. I call him Tony H because I've got him h for hairdresser on my mobile phone. Tony, who runs Arthur Razor, takes Mondays off because he works on Saturdays, unless I have a very, very late booking for news night, in which case he has been known on occasion to open up the salon, especially to give me a quick once over. Phew. Right now? Yeah, I'll give you a round of applause. It's all there, mate. It's all there. And also, historically, the hairdresser would be working on their own site and have staff. So barbers, maybe you can rent a chair. So some people would work a Saturday, not work a month, so you can stay open all the time. Twelve minutes after twelve. Thank you, Marky. Ellie is in Cheltenham. Ellie, question or answer? I've got to start writing these down instead of answering them all. Hello, Ellie. Question. Go on. Why is the emotional feeling called cloud nine. That's a good question. I like that one. I'm on cloud nine. What's wrong with cloud eight? Cloud seven sounds perfectly high. I mean, the clouds. I'm on cloud nine. Cloud nine. Origin of cloud nine. I love it. Yes. How long have you been puzzling over this, Ellie? A few weeks. Okay, we should. We should do our best to find out for you. Why is it cloud nine? Well, what is the origin of the phrase I'm on cloud nine? To express particularly particular happiness, if you can answer that or any of the other questions that have been submitted thus far. Zero. 345-606-0973 I've been desperately amateurish this hour. I haven't written anything down. Is anyone else keeping notes? Anyone keeping notes on them? What other questions need answers? This is the point in the program where I usually do a quick recap of the stuff that still needs answers. All I've got written down in front of me is niblets. That's all I've written down in the first niblets. I've done the hairdressers. Did I take a round of applause for the hairdressers? Yeah, I've done the hairdressers. So, nurseries. We need nurseries. What else do we need? Come on. Niblets. Niblets, nurseries and cloud nine. Is that it? Is that all we've got? Nurseries. Why did. Why? Garden centers called nurseries. I think I've answered that, but I'm being a bit greedy with the rounds of applause, so I'm pretending that I haven't. And why do we say cloud nine? Gilly is in Alton, in Hampshire. Gilly, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Gilly, you haven't got a spare bit of paper there, have you? I've got to start writing this stuff down. I haven't got a pen. Oh, never mind. What's your question? My question is that in certain old films I remember seeing years ago, if somebody got a really terrible fright, they would wake up in the morning and their hair had turned completely white. And I would like to know whether there's any basis, scientifically in that. I think there is. Well, I'd love to know, because I spend a lot of money on getting my roots retouched and I think underneath my hair is white. So if somebody could come and give me a real fright, it would save me a lot of money. I don't know if it works on a sort of bespoke basis, but do you not think going Grammy going gray with stress. Certainly. Our boss here turned up a few years ago with a fine, lovely head of black hair and now he's completely gray. And you seen it. Isn't Sadiq Khan going a bit gray already as well as mayor, I think. I think stress for greyness. So short, sharp, shock type stress, there's bound to be some truth in it. But who would actually be qualified to comment? I've no idea. Who's that with you? A trichologist. A trichologist. Yes. That would be good. I like it. We shall see what we can do, Gilly. Thank you. And your hair looks lovely, by the way. It's money well spent on having your roots done. Time now is 1215. This is LBC. LBC. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is underway. You know how it works by now. If you've got a question, there's a couple of phone ice. We rattled through a lot in the first 15 minutes. A few of you are complaining that I'm trying to answer all the questions myself. Has it turned into challenge? James, instead of mystery hour, asks one irate tweeter and to which that is always like this. Pick and choose. I invented this game. I can do what I jolly well please. They coming in here, Johnny come lately. Arrived east, just like the Labour party. All these entries trying to rewrite the rules, change the whole mission state. This is my game. I made it up. I invented it. So I can answer as many questions as I please. But if you are really getting annoyed, then I'll probably stop. Questions that still need answers. Origin of the phrase cloud nine. I'm on cloud nine. Why is that synonymous with happiness? And why do we call garden centres nurseries? If you know the answer to either of those or you have a question of your own, the number you need remains zero. 345-606-0973 another complaint from Big J. Presenter answering all the questions. Callers administering rounds of applause. Mystery hour is in disarray. Mate, you're a purist. You've got to move with the times. We can't stay in the pole. We've got to adopt new methods. We've got to find new, you know, tricks. James is in Chelsea. James, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. My wife is expecting our second child. Congratulations. Thank you. And like most expectant mums or some, shall I say, she's taking various precautions. One of those is not to, or certainly to avoid caffeine. So whilst making her caffeine free coffee. This morning I wondered if caffeine is naturally occurring in coffee beans. How do they take the caffeine out? I like that question. It rings a vague bell there, actually, but I can't remember the answer. Can you get. Can you get decaffeinated beans? I'm being a bit thick here, but I find decaffeinated coffee to be an affront to all that I hold dear. So I never allow anyone. My mother in law drinks it. I don't let her in the house. I know you can get instant decaffeinated. Can you get non insane? You can get ground beans. Can you property cap? Yeah. Yeah. Proper coffee. Because that's. Yeah, that's what I made this morning. Of course it is. I could tell, jase, by your genuine demeanor, that you weren't. You weren't palm. You weren't palming your expectant wife off with some dodgy gold blend or Maxwell house or anything like that. I'm in enough trouble as it is. Yeah. So we've got the ground. We don't know if the grinding process is involved in. So we don't know for certain, between us whether or not the actual full beans can be decaffeinated as well, because that might provide us with an answer in that they can somehow be grown that way. Yes. So that is. Okay. You're on. I like that. How do they get the cat? What's going on with decaffeinated coffee? We could almost get an hour out of the horror of it. When you're drinking decaffeinated coffee, it's like alcohol free lager. Thank you, James. How do they get the caffeine out of coffee? Why our garden centers called nurseries? Why do we sort of equate cloud nine with the ultimate levels of happiness? And how has Wayne in Basildon got on twice in a week? Hello, mate. What have you got? Better be an answer. Is an answer to the cloud nine question. Yes. I think it's the American Meteorological Society. I've got nine classes of cloud, and I divide those into nine classes. Nine categories. Cloud nine is cumulonimbus, which is the biggest kind of cloud that you can get. So to say you're on cloud nine would mean you're on the biggest higher that you can ever have. The same sort of saying, you're on top of the world, king of the mountain, that kind of thing. Makes perfect sense, doesn't it? What are your qualifications? Well, about three years ago, I bought a book called the Brewers Dictionary of phrase and Fable. In a vain attempt to get more rounds of applause than mystery hour. It wasn't vain, was it? That was one of the first things I read. And barbecue. I remember you told me I was wrong and then I went home. No, you're right, mate. Hang on a minute. That's still my show. Ain't all right, you know, you're getting on a bit more than you should at the moment, but let's not get out of our box on this one. And by the way, I've got brown shoes. My whole life is a lie covering a lot of space, you being all clever like this. Is this the bit where I go? I'll bless him trying to keep up with the likes of us. Yeah, yeah. Give him a ratchet, a bit of an in. You've got to be paying attention in the last hour if you understand why, that wasn't quite as patronising as it sounds. As I talked to Wayne, give him another round of applause. How many is that? I've lost count catching up with Hal. I tell you, Professor, Hal's going to be looking to his spurs in a minute. 23 after twelve marks in Northampton. Mark. Question or answer? It's an answer. Good man. It's the garden centre in nursery question. Yes. Should I point out I have been on before? It was the snails crawling up windows and I've got three rounds of applause for that. I think you're having a pretty light day on answers. Thank you. Right, go on. Well, you were fundamentally correct, which I'm sure you like to hear that nurseries are production nurseries, where they actually grow plants. But to give you a bit more fidelity to the answer, the garden centers only really came about around about the 1950s. Not too sure what were the first garden centers. It could be long acres in Surrey, it could be knock cuts in Norwich area. But the reason why garden centers came about was because of this amazing event invention called the plastic plant pot. Now, pre 1950, anytime anybody wanted to buy a plant, they'd have to go out to a production nursery that would field grow plants in the ground. And you could only lift them in the dormant season from September till about March time. Now, with the advent of the plastic plant pot, it meant that you could grow the plant in a pot, sell it twelve months of the year. And a lot of production nurseries started to become garden centers, which meant they sell plants twelve months of the year. Nowadays you do get purpose built garden centers which have never been nurseries and never actually grow plants themselves. But if you see an independent nursery that's also a garden center chances are, if it's got the name nursery, it was a production nursery, which then developed a garden center with a coffee shop and a soft play area and a gift shop and all the wonderful things that we have in garden centers nowadays. What an absolute peach of an answer. Niblett, he's done it. He's got his ghost. He's been improved on perfection. Give him a round of applause. I'm just gonna have to have two, even though he got three last time. Squeezing in a cheeky nibletz earns you this. Oh, hang on. I didn't even know what your qualifications were, but I presume you're in the industry. Yes. Yeah, I'm a professional horse culturalist. I went to Persia College, horticulture, and I sell to garden centers at the moment. Organic products. Hershore College of Horticulture, just up the road from where I grew up. Rose Acre was. That was the one near us in Kidderminster. But that's probably. Probably don't know it. It's not called that anymore. Is it just me or are they all getting bought up by the same chains? Yeah, Pershall's bought up, I think. Sorry. Garden centers. It's not too bad, actually. I mean, yval are the biggest. That's it. But there are over a thousand decent garden centers throughout the UK. The next biggest chain is Dobby's, which is about 35, but it's still a really good industry to be in because it's lots of independent garden centers that are still family owned. The only hedge funds are Dobby's and Wyvale, but everywhere else is still family owned like that. You could go on. You could go on mastermind with garden centers as your specialist subject. I just thought about that. I'm going to go try and go on with the novels of roman feist, but that's just because I'm very boring and read the same books over and over again, much to the displeasure of my wife. Well, I. Never mind your wife, mate. I reckon you could be winning. I. Siri, I don't know what you like on general knowledge, we'll find that out another day. But two rounds of applause there for Mike means he's got five rounds of applause in two calls to mystery. Yeah, back in your box. Wayne in Basildon. Dave is in Chichester. Hi, Dave. Question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Bring it on. Decaffeinated coffee. There's two ways of doing it. One is they take green coffee beans, they immerse it in a solvent which dissolves the caffeine and extracts it that way. You seriously? Yeah. No, it doesn't sound very nice. The other way is called a swiss water method and they do that by heating it up and using the process of osmosis to get it out. Get in. And that's my hat trick as well. You're yanking my chain, Dave. I'm not yanking your chain. You must be yanking my chain. It really. It really and genuinely involves osmosis? Yes, it does. That's a thing of qualifications. I went on holiday in Italy and I was drinking a lot of coffee and started getting palpitations because I was drinking too much strong coffee. So I switched to decaf and I actually thought, I wonder if this stuff's any good for me. So I looked it up how they make decaf coffee and the swiss water method is good for you, but we're not so sure about the solvent based method. I don't like the idea of solvents. No. I tell you what, some mornings I drink the solvent after it's extracted all the caffeine out of the coffee piece. I think that's called Red Bull. Round of applause for Dave. Great work, mate. Absolutely sterling. Oh, there's a few in jokes this hour and we've got so many new listeners, I should probably explain. I just love the word osmosis. Not as much as I love the word niblet, but in a different way. So I think, mister, how was born somehow from the word osmosis? And for a while it was the answer I gave to any scientific question that I was ignorant about. And it turned out to be true about 30% to 40% of the time. So osmosis has a very special place in mystery hour history. And that is why anyone who manages to smuggle it into an answer correctly is likely to hear that hallelujah chorus. 28 minutes after twelve is the time. I've got some phone lines free now for the first time since 10:00 largely because we've rattled through so many. So we've gone definitive on nurseries? We've gone definitive on cloud nine, we've gone definitive on caffeine. We did the hairdresser. Is there anyone else keeping notes? I've tried to keep up now, but I keep getting distracted by niblets. I think that's the lot, isn't it? This is brilliant. We can do two mystery half hours. We're almost starting from scratch. Imagine the show is an etch a sketch. Now is your moment to give it a shake and tap it on the back and remove the images that have already been recorded and recreate it in your own image. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need to book your place now for your question. Unless there are any questions that I've forgotten to answer, in which case, by all means, get in touch to answer that as well. Time now is approaching 12:30. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. A quick reminder, because, of course, I just mentioned all the people tuning in are new, all the new listeners to the program. I don't really take any texts or emails or tweets during this hour of the program, but I am constantly intending to launch a Twitter question for those of you who are currently listening on a podcast. So can't get involved live. 12:30 is the time. Simon Conway is here with your headlines. The transport secretary has announced a 20 million pound LBC. It is 33 minutes after twelve. And hair turning white, of course, was the question I forgot to include on the roundup before the news is what's the scientific? Does it, can fear really turn your hair white? I mean, just anecdotally, I genuinely believe that stress turns your hair grey. I don't know if it makes you. I don't know if it makes your hair fall out, does it? I don't know what my excuse will be otherwise, but it certainly makes your hair turn grey. But going. Going white with fear in the old sort of comedy horror scenario, is that. Is there a scientific explanation for that? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer that question, or indeed if you've got a question of your own, I'm starting a fresh piece of paper. Gary is in Feltham. Gary, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Water. Seawall, they come up the estuary of the Thames. That's salt water. When it sort of ends up in sort of central London, that's obviously. That's not salt water. How does it change about. Oh, I knew this. I don't know why. I got an idea that it had something to do with Brentford lock. But that doesn't make sense, does it? Because that's quite far west. Indeed. What do you want to know? Just been listening to mystery hour for a while. It's just one of them things that was just bugging me for the last few weeks before I don't try and. No, it won't. What doesn't come in from the sea, you fool, does it? That's the thing. The rivers feed the sea. The sea doesn't feed the rivers. So that. So the salt will be in the estuary. It'll stop at the estuary. So when the tide flows in and out, surely there must be some sort of mix. Sea tides and river tides the same. I don't know. Are they? I mean, one of us. One of us is going to sound a bit dopey at the end of this conversation. And a minute ago, I thought it was going to be you, Gary. Now I'm not so sure. No. And the rivers, you know, the water journey is from streams to rivers to the sea. It's not the other way around. But the tide thing is. Well, one thing's for sure. I don't know the answer to this, do I? Thank you. I should stop pretending that I might get there in the end and stick Gary's question on the board. Where does the water in the Thames cease to have salt in it, given that it is linked to the sea? So a backwash would have called it once. I don't know if that's an appropriate phrase anymore. 1236 is the time. So, salt in the Thames. And white hair, hair going white. Joe is in stoke on Trent. Joe, question or answer? Question, please carry on. So why do eyebrows only grow to a certain length? So obviously they carry on growing slowly. But say I was to shave my eyebrow off, it would grow back rather quickly, but then once it reaches a certain length, it stops growing again because you've got slightly looking at this through the wrong end of the. Of the. Of the shaving mirror. The wrong side of the shaving mirror, they. They fall out. Oh, do they? Once they've reached us? Yeah, they fall out and then replenish. Oh, but, okay, I guess that answers my. Same with. Same with all of your body hair, whereas the hair on your head. See, I would have assumed that they would have just carried on growing. Yeah, I know, everyone does. Falling over your eyes. Oh, okay. Well, that is why they fall out. And which is why, you know, you often find dust and stuff like. That's why your house gets dirty. We're constantly shedding hair and skin and that sort of thing all the time. I see. Okay. Happy with that, Joe? Yeah, I'm very happy with that. Great stuff. Ask me what my qualifications are. What are your qualifications? I think we had the same question with leg hair not that long ago. That would make sense as well. But why does head hair carry on growing, then? That's. That's for next week. Now, I'm afraid you've used up your questions. No supplementaries or Mister Albert. I'll have my third round of applause, please. Thank you very much. Williams in Coringham. William, question or answer? Hello, James. A question, please, young man. Carry on, sir. Well, when we're happy, pleased or satisfied with a situation or a result, when we are at one with the world around us, William, many of us. Many of us say, I'm really chuffed with that. We do. And what does the origin and what context does chuffed mean? Chuff. Chuff. Oh, I can normally have a crack at these just by sort of thinking about the origins. Chuff. I'm just thinking of steam trains, but I can't see. I mean, I'm always happy to see a steam train, but so am I, actually very partial to a steamship. Do you know that I think kidding Harriers is the only football ground in the country where you can hear steam trains passing? Indeed. You didn't know that? No. No. I don't even know if it's true. I might just made it up. But we definitely heard a steam train goof juice last time we were. When we were at the Chorley town game, right? I chuffed. Chuffed. I'm chuffed. It might be linked to steam. It might be because you're all sort of stoked up and excited, right? But you're not going to take that and nor should you. Chuffed. Origin of chuffed. I like that, William. Thank you very much indeed. 1238 is the type. Come on, we're cracking on. We've got to get these as well. Why does your hair go white? Does fierce turn your hair white like it does in the movies? When does the Thames cease to be salty or begin to be salty? Where's the line at which the Thames is. Has got salt on one side, saltwater on one side and fresh water on the other. I'm going with estuary, but I need an expert. And what's the origin of the word chuffed? I like that. Where does the word chuffed come from? Steve's in Romford. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. I've had a rebuild summer with ants in the garden. Oh, I'm sorry, but my question was, do ants ever sleep? You feel like they don't, don't you? Certainly do, yeah. Is this a mystery? Our question. Could you not just have mounted a sort of Chris Packham style camera somewhere in your garden and. No, I'm not that much of a ticky. You're not? Alright, so do ants ever sleep and. Yeah, if so, when? So they don't seem to be leaving your garden alone at any point in the 24 hours? Not the slightest. Ants sleep, insects sleep. I don't hibernate. And, yeah, I like that question. When you hear me making these weird noises, it's because I'm hoping that an answer might present itself to me during the burbling, but it's not really working out for me so far today. 1240 is the time. Hair going white. Salt in the Thames. It's like fog on the tine. The salt in the Thames is all minor chuffed. Origin of the word chuffed. And do ants sleep? That sounds philosophical almost, isn't it? It's like that Philip K. Dick novel about robots. What is that? What's that called? They based up Will Smith film on it. Robots and dreams. Did robots dreaming technic. Yeah, all right. Too many digressions. Mike's in high wicker. Mike, question or answer? Yeah. Good morning, James. It's an answer about the Thames. Thank you, Mike. You've got. Well, the river fills from tributaries and running off the land and everything else. So you've got fresh water coming down. Yes. You've also got tidal water coming back the other way from the sea because the sea level goes up and down. Yes, but the Thames. So where it meets it would be what they call brackish, because it's a mixture of saltwater and fresh water. Is that what brackish means? Yes. Oh, you live and learn. Oh, there you go. But the, but Thames is. The Thames is tidal up to Teddington. That's where I was getting Brentford. Yeah. I'm sorry. Not, not a million miles away from each other, are they? And it's Teddington lock. Teddington lock. Does that mean. But that doesn't mean it's salty up to Teddington. It can be because that's where it's tidal. So it'd be brackish up to there. Really? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because the water's always flowing the other way, isn't it? The water's always coming down from off the hills, off the tributaries and, you know, from basically oxford all the way down to east London. Why does it stop at Teddington, the tides then? Because I guess it can't get any higher volume. Just sheer volume of water. Yeah, possibly, yeah. I'm guessing now, but that would make some sense. And also, if you think about it, you've got Teddington lock, which is always letting water out of the river. This is a beautiful answer. So you could. I mean, there'll be different concentrations, but brackish is a catch all term for saying salty. Got a little bit of salt in it. So God cry. I was completely wrong about the estuary, although right about the rivers. I said, what are your qualifications? Well, I went to school in Marlowe, which is on the Thames, so I suppose that will have to do. I've got a book about the Thames, and it follows the Thames all the way through, and I was quite enjoying it. It's not a bad book, but it got to Kew Bridge, which I happen to know quite well, and it completely failed to tell its readers the most interesting thing about Keywridge. Do you know what the most interesting thing about Kew Bridge is? Interesting thing about Kew Bridge? No, I don't, actually. It was used during the second world war for target practice by fighter pilots. And if you're walking over with young children, you can actually show them the bullet holes in the middle of Kew Bridge on both sides. I don't know whether it was british soldiers getting rid of some bullets or german soldiers trying to sort of caught, but you can actually put your fingers in the bullet holes on Kew Bridge. Yeah, from second time I'm down that way. I heartily, heartily recommend it, especially if you've got nippers with. Because it's exciting, it brings history to life. For the mike round of applause. I got the best listeners in the world. It was, do androids dream of electric sheep? Thank you, Josh. And the film based upon that book by Philip K. Dick was, of course. Anyone? Bueller? Bueller? Anyone yet? Blade Runner. A couple of phone lines. Free. Zero. 345-606-0973 I need to know the origins of chuffed. I'd like to know whether ants sleep and whether or not there is a scientific canal or explanation justification for hair turning white with fear like we see in the films. But you will get through the numbers. Now, I can't say that very often on Mister Albert, but when I do say it, be quick. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Rami is in Manchester. Rami. Question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Go on, then. Yeah. The color catchers for the washing machine. My wife was always harassing me to put them in with the clothes. What's a colour catcher? Oh, I'm showing. Oh, you're such a new man now. And I'm usually the one who looks all cosmopolitan and plugged in with his hand inside. What's a color catcher? Basically, it's just like a piece of sheet that you throw in with laundry so that you can pretty much put any colors together and it won't get, you know. Oh, no, I've seen these. We don't need them in our house because I sort through the laundry every night and put it all in its relevance compartments before doing all the, all the launch, you know, actually, I asked my wife the other day where the washing machine was, which didn't go down very well at all. What, um. What do you want to know about them? How do they work? How does it work? So if you've got a white shirt and a red sock and you put them in the washing machine, you're going to come out with a pink shirt. Well, what? You put the color catcher and you'll get out with a pink color catcher. Is that right? And you won't have. Well, they probably answered the question. There's something about it that attracts the dye. Well, I don't know what it is. That's why I'm calling you. All right. Okay. We'll put it on the board. How do color catches catch color? How much color can a color cat. How much color can a color catch catch? If a color catch can catch color, you should get a round of applause for that. I don't think I should. It's 1245. Rabbi, how do color catches work? Do ants sleep, origin of the word chuffed, and can stress or fear really turn your hair white? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need time now. 1245. And here with your travel news is Jay Louise Knight. Thanks, James. Good afternoon. While the m 23 is seen, I don't know if you've heard that speech, and I've given up saying it's a new low for Donald Trump. He's talking about the ball he's going to build is going to be beautiful. And people clap, literally. The world has gone truly mad and used to sound silly when people said, the only way you can reset humanity when it's going down a rabbit hole of such abject insanity is we with a war. Not a wall. A war. I'm beginning genuinely to get frightened that that might be true. You've got a man standing up in public seeking to be the leader of the free world, talking about building a beautiful wall. And human beings, apparently possessed of fully functioning brains, are cheering and clapping. Do you know who he sounds like? He sounds like bottom in a midsummer night's dream. If you've seen that bit when he starts talking about how beautiful a wall is because he's actually been enchanted by Oberon or puck, he's had a spell put on him. I slightly misremembered my midsummer night's dream there. But the point stands. A beautiful wall. Unbelievable. Mister drawing to an inexorable conclusion. After this, I still got time for a couple more questions, if you're quick. Zero 345-606-0973 origin of the word chuffed can hair go white with fright? Do ants sleep? And how do colour catchers work in your washing machine? Don't forget this Sunday night from eight on LBC to join Clive ball for the travel hour. Clive and his expert guests will be offering holiday advice and answering your travel questions. This week's featured destination is Peru, so do catch up on previous episodes at LBC Dot co dot UK Comma, where you can also win a long haul break to your choice of destinations, including Dubai, Hong Kong and New York. It's all thanks to Gatwick Express, who are helping you arrive without the stress. And speaking of New York, hello to whoever tweeted me earlier to say they were listening to the program in their hotel room in New York before going out for the day. I apologize for not mentioning that sooner. A lovely thought. Harley is in. Mary Le Bone. Harley, question or answer? Yes. So to your question about. I've got an answer. Sorry, your question about can skin and can hair go white to a fright? Yes. Very logical answer to it. And that is because when you, when you get, when you get scared. Yeah. Skin. So blood from your skin is drawn to more essential organs, such as your hearts and your muscles. So because you go into fight or flight mode, your body needs to survive. And so therefore your skin goes paler because there's less blood in it. And in the same way, because there's less blood in your skin, it accelerates aging and stress as well. So that causes long term aging in your skin and in your hair. So, yes, you can go white with frightening. I. That's a fascinating sound effect you've got going on in the background, Harley. I see if I can. That's right. I love the answer for skin, which we weren't asking, is it true for. I mean, pigmentation and blood flow don't seem to be quite as linked as you're suggesting. I sense you're right, but I can't quite understand why. Yeah, why would blood flow affect pigmentation? More about the skin. Yeah, we didn't ask about the skin. We didn't ask about this. Tried to adapt your skin based question to apply to hair with your fingers crossed. No, I didn't. Real, I didn't realize at last minute, but with the hair, don't we know as much about it. You're a nice chap. You're a nice chap, Harley. So I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I don't think you've. Well, I can't give you a round of applause, actually, because you haven't gone definitive. And also, it's very misleading and confusing for you to phone a radio station with the name Harley from Mary le Bone, which we always have to train ourselves to pronounce properly instead of saying Marlybone, which is what most people say. So Harley from Marleybone would have been easy, but now I've got all manner of confusion going on with Harley from what? Mary le Bone. Mary le Bone. Anyway, you're not getting a round of applause, pal. Okay, thank you anyway. No, no, thank you. Oh, now I feel bad. Next time, I promise, seriously, it'll be a piece of cake. 1253 is the time, or indeed a glass of coke, depending on how you pronounce it. Andrew is in Ilford. Andrew. Question or answer? Well, it's an answer. It's about Harley's answer, I'm afraid he's totally wrong about changing color when you get scared because hair is dead tissue. Yes. So it cannot change color. Well, I suppose it could change color if you burn it or bleach it. But it does. It does. It does change color. Not through its own means. What do you mean, not through? Why? My hair goes grey. I've got grey hairs. Yeah, but that is a pigment going out because your systems are running down. It won't go. You don't. Hair doesn't sort of start going gray, going straight gray to the end. Do you not know? Obviously it doesn't, but, I mean, which is why it's unlikely to happen in an hour, but over a period of weeks, as your hair grows and falls out, could it not be growing grey hair because of the stress you were feeling at that time? It would. It could go gray if you were under a stressful weeks. But bear in mind, the rate of hair growth. Yes. Is only, I think it's something like 0.5 of a millimeter per day, or almost, if that. Are you familiar with the chef Giorgio locatelli? So you. Sorry. Are you familiar with the chef Giorgio Locatelli? I never heard of him in middle life. He's an extremely good at Heston Blumenthal. Oh, well, he's an extremely, extremely good italian chef. A little more traditional, perhaps, in his approach than Hurston Blumenthal, but he built a new restaurant, Locanda Locatelli, in. I think it's in Portman Square spent about a million quid on it and it burned down. And he says. He says that his hair turned white overnight from all the stress. And I'm with you. How can it unless you paint it? No, maybe he's exaggerating when he says overnight, but the stress could have, I don't know, reset his. If he were to be under such stress, it would kill all the color, all the pigment cells in the hair roots, then. Yes, it would. But it would only then grow out. Yes, exactly that. So, no, it can't happen overnight because it's dead tissue. It's not. It's not got anything flowing into it that could affect a change in color or form. Exact them all qualifications. Andrew, I don't say this, but I heard the answer to this around about 30 years ago on another radio program. What, you mean this isn't. You mean this isn't a sparklingly original radio feature? No, it was. It was that, but it wasn't very filmed. It was. This was Marianne Tornette. And because the legend was that her hair turned out white overnight when she heard she was going to die. That's right. And the answer was, it couldn't have done. It couldn't have done. But it might have. But because she was. Her hair was cropped short because she'd been in prison for some months before under conditions, you know, it might. The base of the hair might have gone white under the stress and rich then became visible when her hair was cropped. I like it. Yeah, I like it a lot. Round of applause for Andrew. Thank you so much. No, thank you so much. Conclusive proof that listening to the radio can be educational. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer. We've done that one. That's. Yeah. Okay. Origin of the word chuffed. I don't think we're going to get an answer to. Unless someone can dive in quickly before 1259 and do ants sleep. I would have thought someone knew the answer to that. And how the color catchers work. So just that hat trick. And then we've gone vintage. We can nail those three. Shut up. Shall I? And I see if we can. Adam's in Southgate. Adam, question or answer? Answer. James, bring in the colour catcher question. Good man. How do they work? So there's a little bit of chemistry here, but to simplify it effectively, the dyes bond to the fabric through, like, polar bonds, so they're not too strong. They're like little weak bonds. And so these dyes come off in your tumble dryer yes. And the color catchers are really polar, so they have lots of polar groups all over and so they're much better attracting the dyes than their clothes are. So just all the dyes basically just go and attach themselves to the color catcher, so it's much more attractive to the dyes. Qualifications? Chemistry student university. Just say some other chemical words that are relevant to your answer but you didn't include because you think we're too stupid. Yes, partly because it's also too complicated to me half the time. Yeah, give me some words. Give me some fancy words. It has polar bonds, hydrogen bonding, basic groups on the fabrics, and they're acidic. Yeah, he's the real deal. He's the real deal. He's the real deal. Just having a look under the bonnet. Round of applause for Adam. They were nicely play. Steve's in team Steve. Question or answer? Uh, also quick. Chuffed. Yes. Okay. There's a couple of theories on this. One I'm looking up a couple of years ago. One is from the 16th century, which means you're sort of bloated out. Puffed up. No, but for happiness. Why do we use it as a synonym for happy? The other theory is right from the 17th, 18th. No, you're cheating. You're looking stuff up. Neil's in. Neil, question or answer? It's an answer. James, can ants sleep well on the telly about, I don't know, four to five months ago? They've done a little documentary about this and, yes, they do sleep and they had these ants in their little. Their own little setup, as it were, and they take it in turns. There you go. Now, that'll do. Round of applause for Neil. Beautifully done. Just that one about being chuffed. So I'm not chuffed to say. That is the end of mystery. Out for another week. We'll do it again next Thursday. I'll see you again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. Should teenagers be charged as criminals when they exchange naked.