Why do some people sink?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. We're experimenting with mystery Hour. I know what you're thinking. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. But I need to free up 15 minutes at the end of this hour for my superstar guest. It means I'm going to do a shorter introduction than usual, which means some of the questions up first might be rubbish, which also means that we need to be patient and kind and not point out their rubbishness too impolitely. The way it works. Very briefly, if you're new to this, if you've got an interesting question that you haven't been able to get an answer to, ring me up and ask it. Someone else listening to the program will know the answer. They'll ring me up and answer it. It's incredibly straightforward. Don't ring in if it's about motoring or something boring. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. There are no real rules. All we are opposed to is repetition and dullness. But dullness, of course, is in the ear of the beholder. And repetition depends upon my memory, which is, well, not what it used to be. So, 1207, shall we find out? Should we just crack on? Should we just do it? Yeah. And we need to turn it around quick. This week, Josh is in edgeware. Josh, question or answer? Question, please. And hello again, the guy who asked about the puzzles from many moves ago. Okay, Nate, the question is, why do movies and tv shows take so long to put on the DVD? Because if you knew it was coming out next week, you wouldn't pay the extra money you have to pay to go and see it at the cinema. I'm talking about after the run. After the cinema run, where they've stopped showing it. Well, again, if it was a short gap between the end of the run and it coming out on DVD, you wouldn't go and see it at the cinema because you think, well, I'll be out on DVD next week, I'm not going to pay for, you know. Well, you can argue with me if you want, Josh, which is fine, but I've answered the question. I agree with your point. Yeah, no, I agree with your point. Good. I was just thinking, why would it take so long? So the longer the gap, the more likely you are. If I take the family to the cinema now, I don't get any change out of a gazillion pounds. It's all right for you, is it? You just go with your girlfriend or you go on your own, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, I take the kids and misses O'Brien and I take the kids to the cinema. We said we need a second mortgage. So if I knew it was coming out next week, I could say to them, I could say, for example, at the moment, Coco is a superb film, the new Disney film, and I took one of my daughters to see it. By the time I got her a popcorn and a miniature drink, I was thinking of selling a kidney to get us home. And that if I'd known it was coming out next week or in a fortnight, I could have said, well, look, it'll be out on DVD in a fortnight. We can buy it for twelve quid or it'll be on sky, we can watch it for free. And we wouldn't have spent that money in that cinema. I think it's that simple, my friend. No, that's a fair point. I shall take my round of applause now. This isn't a dialogue. I've done it. No, take care, Josh. Look after yourself. Lewis is in Hampton Hill. Lewis. Question or answer? I've got a question. James. Carry on. Where do we get the term square meals? So why do we say, like, three square mils a day? Why square meals? Is it something to do with the navy? Did you get served? I don't know. That's why I'm asking. I'm being rhetorical, mate. Let me grow. Give me some space here. I'm doing a mixture of whimsy and intellectual exploration. There's something about square plates on ships. Why square? Why would they have square. Because they were made of wood. Why can't they make circular plates? Because you need a lathe. I'm on fire today, so before laser. Well, I think. I know I'm not going to be able to go definitive, but I think events will prove me right. It's because three square meals a day would be an inducement to join the navy. Right, okay. Yeah. So you get an appetizing slogan saying, you get three square meals a day, go to work on an egg. It's like the 18th century equivalent of go to work on an egg. Three square meals a day. Oh, crikey. You know, in the good old days, you know, when. When we were all starving to death and had rickets, which will soon be back upon us after Brexit, we. No time at all. I expect rickets to make a comeback fast. We would have been very drawn to the idea of three square meals a day, regardless of the fact that the working conditions on the ship might have been pretty grim. It'd be better than being in a workhouse. No, that's very true. You need more. You will need more. We do and I can't. Yeah, exactly that. But when. When I turn out to be right, I will allow myself a smile. Lewis. Many thanks. Martin is in Eastbourne. Martin. Question and answer. Question or answer? Question. Mick. Yes. Why is it that some people can just float on their backs, swimming and others, like me, just think like a stone? Well, how big are you? Five six. And how much do you weigh? Ten. Eight. How hard have you tried to float? I've tried thousands of times. Are you sure? Because for me, it's all about whether or not you've taken a deep breath and held it in. Well, I've tried it. I've tried that. So you've taken a deep breath, held it in, and you've still sunk? Still sink. Completely sink. It starts from the legs. Sink. And then. Yeah, then I just. You need to go on. I can't answer this question until you've tried my technique for floating, which is you go on your back, you put your arms out, you get your ankles up, so you've got your little tootsie's poking out of the water in front of you. You take a really deep breath and you can hold it. Right, I'll give it a try. Have you not. Have you never. You're in Eastbourne, mate. You should be in the sea all the time. Not today. Also, very, very salty water. Obviously. The saltier the water, the more to float in it, but I don't think you've. I think it's about your technique. I don't think it's biological. I could be wrong. Maybe you've got heavy bones or BMI or something. I don't see how it could be, because there'll be plenty of people who are bigger than you who can float. Just try my technique and get back to me, Martin. Okay, mate. Seriously. We'll leave that one on the board. 1212 is the time. Mark is in lower stuff. Mark. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Mark. Hello, sir. So, first day of spring. Happy beginning of spring. And happy St David's day. Thank you. Happy St David's day. Absolutely. My apologies to all my welsh listeners. Happy Saint David's day, welsh dudes. My six year old son asked me a great question this morning and I didn't have an answer. I'll be the judge of that. Where do the seasons get their names from? Oh, that's nice. We talk about thors day. He knows that and we know about the calendar and, you know, but we get to the month, we get to the seasons, and I was stumped. Some of them, they don't look latin either, do they? Autumn, I had nothing. Spring, summer, autumn, winter, spring, summer. I mean, it's going to be pagan and druidy, I reckon, but I don't know why spring. Who said today's the first day of spring is just because it's march the first? Yes. Isn't there the meteorological, astrological calendars, and it's one of them today. I don't know, man, you know, you're the one with the answers. So where did we. Where were the names of our springs come from? Our seasons come from. I like that a lot. Stadione, I don't, I'm just either. What's summer? What's italian for summer? Mark? I've got no idea that my italian stops at pizza names and that's it. Quattro stagione being the Four Seasons. Yeah, same in Margarita. All right, I'll try and get you an answer for that. I like that, I like that a lot. Terry's in Cobham. Terry, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Good morning. Hello, Terry. What have you got for me? Well, it's the square plate one. Oh, yeah. With a ship, especially if we go back to the 18 hundreds, 17 hundreds, probably. The 16 hundreds. Yeah. When you stack the plates for the crew on board and people did off eat off plates, in the end they ended up being porcelain or some sort of china, is if they were round and they were stacked up limited space on the. On the boat. Yeah, they'd stack them on a rack like you do, probably, or when you're washing up, but because they were around the place. How do you know that? That. Oh, you mean on a draining tray? You don't mean that lovely thing that I've built next to the cooking tray? Yeah, yeah. If you stack the plate, if you don't put them in a big pole like that on the boat, so if you stack them sideways on, they're square and they don't run about so much strong. It's kind of what I said. I did acknowledge that when I first phoned up. I said it is connected to Navy. James was nearly right. Nearly right. Qualifications, Terrence, I've sailed the world. You have, say what, so really? Yes, I have. What, merchant or royal? Merchant. Love it. Well, that's earned you this, is it still square plates on ships, on big boats. I don't know. No, I don't know. That's all right. I'm just wondering. I would probably think so. Yeah, I would probably think so. Because it's about storage and the less likely. I love that answer. I mean, I'm going to go with your answer, I reckon if it was we watching that roast program on the telly where comedians go for each other, if we were trying to roast each other, I'd still argue it may have as much to do with the primitive nature of plate making when it. When the practice began, but I prefer Terry's answer. Therefore he gets the round of applause cast of James O'Brien from LBC. Done the scramills. Done the DVD's. Why do some people sink and some people float? And what are the origin of the season's name? Spring, summer, autumn, winter. Is that it? We've just got those two left. Okay. 21 after twelve. Paul is in Fulcork. Paul, question or answer? It's a question, James. Please carry on. It's, how did we get the boundaries that form the borders, regions and shires? You'd think that they're just so random for them. Horizontal, vertical. But are they random if you walk them? You see, you're looking at them on a map and thinking that they're random. Yeah. If you were walking them, you would find perhaps boundaries that were woodland or waterways or possibly go back farther enough, even the sort of boundaries of ownership of estates by big lords. I would imagine that farmers somewhere down the line and farmers just. If you look at the lanes of some of them. I know, I know, I'm looking at map for them, they just look so, so crazy, some of them, but so does streams. And that I presume that will be it. When you go back far, what are you looking at? You're looking at kind of marauding tribes, aren't you, that Wessex and Mercia are fighting against each other, and then the Vikings coming in and kicking off with everybody. You just. You'd just be the boundaries that you were defending, like Hadrian's wall. So originally it would be put in place to defend against someone who was trying to come in. And you wouldn't do a straight line because a straight line would be, you know, it might have a massive mountain in the middle of it, so you'd build it around the bottom of the mountain and then there might be a stream. So you're on one side of the stream. So I think it would just be originally going back far enough. It would just be the topography and the ownership of the land and the defensibility of the land. I'm on fire today, mate. I'm warning you now. You keep tossing them at me, I'm going to keep knocking them out of the park. Right. Okay, then. Look at Amapia, the USC. Lots of straight lines. It's a new country. It's a new country that was colonized. Yeah, but they drew it on a map. Look at Sykes Pico, to be even more precise, in the Middle east. And all the damage that's done. When a French and a british diplomat. Sat down with a couple of rulers in a set square and just divided up the Middle east. They've been fighting about it ever since. To slightly trivialise international geopolitics. But that's what happens if you don't let it evolve naturally, as it has in the. In the United Kingdom. America, I presume. I don't know enough about american history, to be honest with you. But the states weren't fighting against each other. So I presume that during settlement, when land was being apportioned to people, that explains why there are borders between estates. And that evolves into borders between states. You're kind of making it sound that every shire was fighting against each other. No, no, but you would. I mean, you would only have had. If you went back to pre 1066 in England, certainly. And I presume, in Scotland and Wales, with pictish tribes and Celts. You would only have been safe if you lived within some sort of stockade, if you lived within some sort of protected territory. Now, it doesn't mean you were living in a castle or a keep, but it does mean that there was a boundary. And once somebody crossed that, it was an act of aggression. Okay, I think I'm gonna give myself this. Although I sense that you're not completely on side, I think there may be more to understand. What else could it be, though? That's why I'm falling off. I know. All right, I won't take the round of applause, because I don't want to send you away feeling short changed. But I'm right. I'm gonna get so owned on this one. The more arrogant I get on mystery hour, the more embarrassed I get later. It's like the opposite of Brexit. Lawrence is Inisha. Lawrence, what would you like to say? Hi, James, it's Lawrence. Lawrence, how good to hear from you. Everything under control? Yeah, it's a question rather than an answer. We were listening. Misses Ella and I were listening to your things about weddings and stuff. Yes. And we've been married this month 48 years oh, congratulations to you both. So we're starting to think about golden wedding anniversaries. And then Carol said, well, what's the origin of golden wedding? Why gold? Why, God? 50 years. 50. I mean, it's all gold, isn't it? It's like Terry's. I mean, it's the golden jubilee as well. 50 years. So it's the relationship between 50 years and gold. I guess the idea was unachievable. It was the most valuable thing for an often unachievable goal. If you say so. No, you're not having that, are you? Well, no, that's all right. It's your wedding anniversary. What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? You better start saving up, Lauren. Yeah, exactly. That's why we're talking about it now. So why gold? But why not? That's the problem I've got with your question. There's a diamond, isn't there? And there's sapphire and all, but, you know, ours is just gonna be gold. Indeed it is. And so that's why we. The reason I'm confused is because the short answer would be because it's valuable. But you want more than that. It would be nice. I'll see what I can do. Okay. Thank you, my dear. You're very welcome, my dear. And my very fondest regards to misses l as well. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. 1226 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why 50 years? Why gold? The borders between shires and counties and regions, the names of seasons. What is the origin thereof? Why can some people float and other people not? If indeed, that is scientifically true, which I'm not 100% convinced by some lovely questions, though we've only got 20 minutes to answer them. You know what to do. Beth is in Islington. Beth, question or answer? Carry on. And the. Some people sinking, some people floating. And it's really a large amount to do with the percentage of body fat. Is it? Yeah. So I used to teach swimming and used to be a lifeguard. And why did you stop? Sorry? Why did you stop? I went to university. Teenager. Okay. So, yeah, so, women often. It was easier to tow in the water. It's much easier to tow women because we have a high percentage of body fat. We floated and the men didn't. Often. So. Fat floats. Yeah. So the man who rang in, worried that he couldn't float is actually because he's so lean, probably. I mean, you've got to think about swimmers as well. They always. I always think about. The swimmers have very low body fat. Oh, yes. And you can overcome it with the right body position. So if you think about the body as a seesaw, if you're leaning forward but your head stuck up in the air, then your legs are going to. That's why I told. I told him to adopt my technique for floating, which is actually exemplary. It's. I'm often to be found floating around swimming pools. It's. So is it possible that someone simply can't float because they are so skinny that it's hard work, so I can lie on my back and float and it's fine? Yeah. And it's possible that some people just can't do that. They have to be working and they have to kind of be engaging them, even if they've got lungs full of air, because it's like being a, you know, an armband. Yeah. Yeah. Even if they are very lean. If they. My husband's got this from. He's got really low percentage of body fat and he can swim pretty well, but he can't just lie on his back and float like I can. His legs start drooping and I'm telling him to kind of push his tummy up and everything that you do, but he really struggles. He has to kind of be, in some way, sculling or treading water. Love it. Qualifications? Trained former lifeguard person. Yeah. And swimming teacher. Yeah. Brilliant. Round of applause for Beth. Cross it off. Love it. Should we squeeze another one in before. Yeah, we should just. Can we. Steve in Darby, can you do it in 45 seconds, Steve, or not? I can come to you after the news if you want. I can do it. I can do it. Go on then, mate. So Stuart's inquiry, based upon the square plate theory. It's a square plate. It's not square plate. Square. Neil James. Yeah. So square meal. Square came into the language in 1856, meaning an honest meal. So it's not about the shape of the plate, it's about the type of meal that you will get. And it entered into the american literature. You look this up, I'm student. You're not allowed to look stuff up, mate. I'm not. I'm just basically beating and panting quite heavily because I'm quite nervous. All right, don't worry, it's only me, basically. The point was. I know I wrote it all down, but the point is, basically that this came into the US literature around 856. If you go back, I think square deal. Exactly. So it's an honest deal. It's an honest plate of food. Not necessarily talking about the actual shape of the plate. But actually, I'm going to make you share it because I thought Terry was on the money with his. With his sailor boy stories about. Yeah, but everybody thinks that, James. Everybody always goes back to the Royal Navy, but if you actually go back pre 1970, you will never find any references in all the thousands of ships logs to a square meal in the Royal Navy log. All right, you've got it. You've done it. Well played. No, great work. Great work. Nice one. Listen to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Questions that still need answers. Why gold? For your 50th anniversary, Lawrence and his beloved want to know, how do they draw them? How did we draw the boundaries between counties? It's a lovely question that I think my answer is right. Just. Just about a sort of evolution of ownership and topography. But I'd love to know for sure. And how did the seasons get their names in English? Spring, summer, autumn, winter. Is there anything else? I'm not sure. We're sure. We'll remember if there is. Um, Jamie is in Wandsworth. Jamie, question or answer? Hello. Good afternoon, James. It's a question. Carry on. Why is it that increasingly the population seems to be speaking with a higher intonation at the end of their statements, as if they're asking the question, neighbors, when they're not really asking. Yeah, yeah, australian is. But surely that's. Neighbors have such a cultural influence and it's. I mean, it's. How old are you now to. I am 43. Yes. For you and me, it's neighbors. For younger people, it's the Kardashians. Yeah. But even Sadiq Khan, you know, we got neighbors. He's our age mate, watch neighbors twice a day. He's always bunking off school, smoking woodbines while his dad was out driving the bus. Nothing to do with post modernism. And. Well, you're on the right show if it is, but I can't quite see how we're going to pull that one off. I mean, it's got its Californian as well, isn't it? But I think. I think for our. For our generation, certainly, it's because neighbors and home and away were utterly unavoidable for a decade while we were during our most formative years. Yeah, but then why didn't happen then? It did. Is that where it started? Yeah. It's like uni. No one ever said uni when I was young. Everyone says uni now. That's all. That's all because of guy, out of Mike, out of neighbors, played by Guy Pears uni. He's got to do anything to do. The fact that people, when they're making statements, they don't actually believe the metro. God, no. We've gone the opposite way on that one, mate. People are absolutely 125% convinced that what they're saying is true, even when all the evidence is there that it isn't. That's the least of our worries at the minute. It's Australianisms. It is genuine, I promise you. It's the. It's the inculcation of australian pronunciation. Right. I mean, I'm not satisfied with that. That's not my problem. Yeah, no. What else could it be? Well, like I say, I think it's. It's a cultural influence. What's the biggest cultural influence of the last 30 years in which people routinely speak with an inflection going up at the end of the sentence? Aren't certain neighbors? Yeah, not satisfied. I'm having a round of applause. I'm having a round of applause, thank you very much. I can't actually do it. Can you do it? When people raise their voice at the end of a statement, they kind of like that. But that's interrogatory, so it would have a question mark at the end of it. It's more like, what are you going to have for breakfast? I might have some corn flakes and some black pudding. Yeah, that's it. Black pudding. Yeah, black pudding. You know you got it. It's been real. Yeah. 1239 is the time. Phil's in Preston. Phil, what's going on? Question or answer? Well, unusually familiar. It's a question, actually, but I was just listening to what you just said there. It drives me nuts. Sort your phone out, Phil. Sort your phone out, mate. I don't know if you. Have you got your balaclava helmet on? Is that any better? That's much better, my friend. Well done. There we go. See, it's not that hard. What have we got? Well, it's to do with the snow, really. I can normally figure most things out for myself, but I just wondered, on London underground, if anyone's listening, what stops the snow shorting out the electricity between the third rail and the negative rail? I know that the electric rail is insulated from the ground when the snow builds up. That's water, isn't it? And it'll short it out, surely. Why would rain not do that? Well, because rain soaks into the ground and it doesn't rise up as much. So it's the conductivity of snow that sounds like a novel by a swedish crime writer. The conductivity of snow. Yeah, I just wondered. It just occurred to me, with all this weather, I thought, well, you know, the railway lines completely emerge. I don't know, mate. Does it matter? No, not really. Should we all go to bed? Well, I mean, it's earth, isn't it? I mean. No, it's not earth, though, is it? Well, I don't know. The power gets picked up by the shoe. It goes through the motor, it through the wheels. You mean like on a scale? Extrics. Yes. I don't know. I don't even understand the question. And they're the qu. Don't know you do you choose not to? Shall we? All right. Why doesn't snow short circuit the whole of the London Underground? You want me to ask my million listeners that question? I want you to ask the London Underground listener. He'll know. All right. Why doesn't snow short out the whole of the London underground? Thank you. All right, what if it does? Which never knew, because there's never been enough snow before. Glenn's embassy. Glenn, question or answer? Answer, mate. Seasons. Bring it, Glenn. Okay, so spring, summer and winter are all Anglo Saxon in origin. Spring, summer and winter. You just made that up. Oh, you couldn't have said that. You could have completely made that up. Or, you know, autumn is actually latin autumn, which is adopted after they adopted Christianity, the common Saxons, or the cells called it foul or foal, which the Americans still do. Should we start early? We'll give Glenn a round of applause and then I think. I think Ricky Gervais is here early, so we're going to bring him in now if he's he ready. What do you think? Do you think? I mean, I know he's gone to the loo now. We can't get him back. We'll get him back in a second. All right. Round of applause for Glenn. All right, Charlie's in Staffordshire. Charlie, question or answer? Hi. I had an answer for you. Carry on with your question about the borders. Yes, I'm an intern with my local authority. Are you? And. Yeah, one of the areas I've been working in was digital cartography. Yes. And that involves maps. And they gave me a map to look at and it, it flipped between a satellite image of Worcestershire. Yeah. With a black line going around the border. Yeah. And there was an actual map. Yeah. Like a picture map. Got you. And if you flick between them. Yeah. You could actually see that the black line, the border, the official border, actually matched streams and the shapes of fields and things. And there was always some kind of match on the ground to what was on the loan. So the short answer would be, you were 100% correct, James. Well done and congratulations. Yeah, no, you were pretty on the money. Cool round, of course, for me. Last one. Corey's in Cambridge. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Bring it. Right. It's about the thing, the intonation going up at the end of the sentence. The antipodean inflection. Not at all. Well, it might be, but it's more to do with. We call it high rising, terminal intonation. It's the antipodean inquisitive inflection. Well, no, it's not inquisitive. It's not. It's not. It sounds inquisitive. Well, it might sound like it, but it's what we call a conventionalized politeness strategy. Really? Why has it come so popular in the last 30 years? Well, I actually think what they say is it starts off. It's, like, almost animalistic. When people are trying to be. When they're trying to not be assertive and they're trying to be nervous about stuff, they go up at the end to show that. But they didn't used to. Cory? Well, things just pop up out of nowhere. That's. They didn't pop up out of nowhere. It's all because of neighbors. It is. It's all because animals use higher pitch to show that they are lesser animals. And so if you're trying to be polite, you're gonna go up at the end of the sentence. Could I be. Could you be any more wrong? Be. What are your qualifications? Well, I'm assumed at the uni of Cambridge studying linguistics. And I'm a fan of Vicky Gervais. I'm really looking forward to that. He's here now. He's coming in. I better go, then. Yeah. Seriously along. I'll just squeeze in one more. Professor Howell is in Brighton. Question. I give him a round of applause. He's probably right. Anyway, he's at the University of Cambridge. Professor Howell is at the University of Brighton. Don't get status anxiety, but what have you rung in to answer? Snow and its lack of conductance. Yeah. Why doesn't it short circuit the whole of the London Underground? Phil needs to know he's in Preston. He's really worried about it. Okay. Well, first and foremost, water doesn't conduct, but dirty water does because it's got electrolytes in them, and those electrolytes need to be able to move. Snow has the water molecules held in a rigid lattice and until they can move, it can't conduct any more than you're talking about. But I know that you're the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and you've not lied to me yet. How do you know I've not lied to you yet? I check. You can't look things up on mystery, but Wayne keeps an eye. Wayne in Basildon keeps a very close eye on things for me. He is. He's the sentinel of mystery. He is the sentinel of mystery. You're close to being the patron saint, but you're not. Here's a round of applause. 1245. That concludes the truncated and curtailed mystery hour of this week. After the break, Ricky Gervais is in the studio. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Don't phone that number now, because I've got a studio guest and I've got more than enough conversational topics to explore without you ringing in and muffin it all up. Ricky Gervais is here. Hello. Hello. How nice to see you. You love your audience really, don't you? You know I do, yeah. Say very kind things about the program in the past. I've been enjoying it recently. Oh, thanks, mate. Yeah, I'm gonna say nice things about. About you, but in a nasty way. Oh. Because, well, I love the new show humanity. Thank you. Every single second of it is nice. It really is. Wow. I do. However, do you know that Jack Nicholson film as good as it gets? I haven't seen it. I know it. Is he a grumpy curmudgeon who learns a life lesson? Yes. He's that you? No. No, because you've not learned a lesson. But there's a line in it where Jack Nicholson says to Helen Hunt, who he's sort of in love with, he says, you make me want to be a better person. Yeah. When I watched humanity, it made me want to be a slightly worse person. Oh, why is that? Well, because you're so strong on the offense stuff and so brilliantly explaining why stuff that maybe I might have balked at actually is important to get out there. It is. I think no harm can come from discussing taboo subjects. And, you know, that's why they're taboo, because people fear them and they rush away from them. And I usually talk about contentious issues for a reason. Firstly, it's to take the audience to a place that hasn't been before. I don't want to do safe, anodyne comedy because there's lots of people doing that. And they're better at it than me. So I've got my thing, which is confronting these things and it sort of gets you to a place. But since I've been doing that, I suppose this one is, I think it's my best show for many reasons, because I'm not doing it to try and be punk or to offend. I'm actually saying to people, you shouldn't be offended by these things. And it's the fruits of quite deep thinking, because is there a slight contradiction in the. I don't give a hoot about these people or what they think, but I have actually given quite a lot of thought to what offense means. Well, I do, and that's what's offensive, because people assume when a comedian now, you discuss the most contentious and taboo subjects ever, but you're doing it on the radio and everyone gets that. I mean, I've had my routines discussed on the radio with people on the radio discussing it, saying it shouldn't be talked about by a comedian now. And journalists ask me, they say things like, is there anything you wouldn't joke about? I want to go, is there anything you wouldn't write about? It doesn't make sense because they assume that because you're making a joke about it, you're making fun of it. You're making fun of the. The issue, the problem, the victim. And as I say in the show, people get offended often when they mistake the subject of a joke with the actual target. And they're not necessarily the same thing. You can talk about anything, but it depends on the joke and it depends on the target. I talk about race without being racist. You do as you do. Yes. And it's funny. Could people get that mixed up? It's a hypersensitivity which kind of falls into the same category as what the Daily Mail would call political correctness gone mad, doesn't it? In a way. Exactly. There's two sides to that coin. I am probably what would you call a PC lefty snowflake liberal, but I don't know why the right of suddenly claimed freedom of speech. And they have to a certain extent, and I know what's happened recently is a bit of an, you know, an antidote to people being told what they could do by authoritarian liberals for the last 25 years and not understanding why you're not allowed to do the thing that you've always done because no one's bothered to explain to you. Exactly. And political correctness, per se was a good thing. We talked out the old guard of people, oppressing people being racist, and then it got mugged, and then people started saying things like, well, if I can't say the n word, you can't say this. It doesn't work like that. You know, it is. There is stupidity on both sides. Not that I don't know what. There aren't sides anymore. People don't look at an argument anymore. They look at who's saying it. They've made up their mind with who's saying it. So there is a, by definition, a prejudice. There's a pre judgment of who's saying this thing. And there are so many anomalies, there are so much mix up with people. I don't know if you can say who's a lefty liberal anymore or who's a right wing. You know, it's like, let's look at the argument, let's look at what's being said. That's what I'm trying. This has to be the next chapter. We have to start the pendulum. So it has to swing back now, is it at some point, because it's swung so far, the teams and the tribes? You spend a lot of time in America. I had a bit of an inoculation with Brexit, so I was sort of ready with people thinking they'd won something. You know, these people are out now and proud. We've won. We haven't won. It went that way. But, you know, again, even in America, it's that 32% who say they're the disenfranchised, forgotten. You want to go? No, no, no. What's happened is when you've had privilege so long, equality feels like oppression. They're basically saying, some people want some of our equality. Well, of course they do. Damn them. Damn their eyes. And one of them ended up president. That's the ultimate offence. Again, I'm nearly numb to it now. I didn't even bother commenting on that tweet the other day where he said, if I had, even if that terrible shooting, I'd probably have gone in there even if I didn't have a weapon. That's not a ten year old says, I could beat up a lion. I could fight a lion if I had wrestlers. Exactly. There was that picture of him with his own kid who wouldn't even use his umbrella. He's walking up the airplane steps with an umbrella over his head and his kids getting rained on. But this is the man that would go in to protect other people's children. Of course, this is a man out down the stairs, right? This is a man who was scared of a tame eagle. So this is not a brave man. He believes it, doesn't he? That's the weird. I don't know if he does. I think. I think he's got that childlike narcissism that he sort of, if he says it sort of might be true. But I think there's no. There's a. There's a bit of troll about him and there's no one in his life to tell him that he's being a wizard. He's never. He's never had to do or achieve anything in his life. You know, this is a man who's, you know, people fell for him because he was a good businessman. Well, actually, someone looked at it, right, and they worked out that if he'd have just put his acquired inherited wealth on the top 50 stocks, he'd be $6 billion richer than he is. So he's effectively lost money over his. There was a libel. Someone said he's not a real billionaire. He sued them and lost. Yeah. So there is. Anyway, we're wasting our breath because, as you say, the people who are onside are so entrenched. There's also the wasak alarm. The person in your life who tells you when you're. When you've gone too far. You talk a bit in the show about Jane, your girlfriend, and her largely vain attempts to police the parameters of what you do. Again, you know, she brings me down. How can I? I did a tweet the other day saying about something like, I'm an international comedian with, you know, three Golden Globes and my girlfriend just called me a fat, useless pig. I've won awards. Take the rubbish out. All right. And. No, so I've had. I'm. My family have never considered me anything other than that, you know, that little idiot brother. You know, I love for the family in the show you talk about, and it may seem an odd context in which to be sort of all giggling uproariously at your mother's funeral. Yeah. Wasn't it? I wouldn't laugh at someone else's mum's funeral. You would, though. Exactly. It is personal. It's a. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I talk about that and they're all true stories. And that's the important thing about this, I think it is, probably. I've been around long enough. I know I kept myself to myself and I think now I'm brave enough to be slightly more personal. And what changed? Just maturing? I don't know. I think old people's rights. I'm gonna die soon. I don't care what I say and what people. It's the truth. It's liberating. It's the truth. But more so, it's the fact that I respect the audience more than I ever did. And I realized what a privilege this is. That's a really interesting observation, because I was trying to work out how you can talk about your slightly ludicrous life. I mean, in the context of the stuff you do about schoolchildren in Hampstead. But of course, you've chosen to live. That's bad. Don't say. Don't say any of those. I won't say. No, no. I've got to live there when this comes out on Netflix. I have to walk past about 2000 school children every day in Houston, Saxon. And it's a very privileged place I live in. You talk about your essentially ludicrous life in terms of the luxury, and you make no bones about being absolutely minted. And you joke about having so much money and a 20 grand rug and all this kind of thing, and that should alienate the audience a bit. But you talk about. And then you talk about the stuff with your brothers and with your brother and giving the vicar the wrong name at your mom's funeral. So your fourth brother got. Well, they know what I'm doing. They know it's nothing but honesty. That's amazing to see. Because truth is magic. Honesty is magic because it is your life. These are the things you're concerned about. It's not pretending to be some sort of. Okay, so traditionally, in reading. Exactly. So a comedian. We're traditionally a court jester. Okay. And there's good things with that. Right? We've got low status, so people aren't. They're not intimidated. Okay. We're not. We haven't really got power, but we're having a go at the king. We're the last bastion that go. The king is in altogether. They trust us. Right? So I can't go on stage and pretend to be signing on yesterday. You know, they go, rubbish. Right? So I embrace that, right? But I keep my low status in two ways. Two, I invite them in, I say what you think. You think everything's glamour. And I tell them a story about how I fell on my face. Okay? The other way I keep my low status is I talk about things that money can't help. I talk about getting fat and old and bald and dying first. Yeah, you do a lot about. I do. Because, again, because you are. It's the truth. I know it is the truth. And there's nothing fat. There's nothing remotely. I'm wearing black. Yeah. And I'm holding it in and there's a table in the way. Right. But I am fat. I'm getting fat. Good. Good luck to me. Right. No. What's the point in living longer if you can't eat more cheese and drink more wine? But, no, I do do it with their blessing and with all honesty, to hopefully comic effect. There's nothing funny about telling people what a great day you had. No. They want to hear how you failed, how you fell on your face. So I do that. I do that with press having a go at me. Trolls on Twitter who live in a bin getting the better of me, you know? So I'm telling them that I've had a bad day, too. And comedy at its best is letting everyone know we're all idiots and we're all going to die. So relax. There's a lot of Twitter in the show. Yeah, there is. Which, I mean, I really like that because I spend too much. It's too much. I think that there is a fascinating thermometer for society. You do it right, it amplifies everyone's life and it's likely reading every toilet wall at once in the world. I was going to say a window on the world, but a toilet wall, that. Exactly. That works as well. I mean, it's a slightly daft question, but do you never think, maybe I should leave it, put it down? Well, I do. I think, again, even my presence on Twitter is amplified. I probably go on to it three times a day for ten minutes. But you feel your boots while you're there. I film a boots again. I don't back away from contentious issues and things get picked up. You know, even that, you know, offense, culture, complaints. 20 years ago, if you were offended by someone on the BBC, you'd have to get a pen and paper out and start writing letter. Then you go, oh, I can't be bothered. No, it's true. You fire it off, that gets picked up. I tweeted a picture from someone like you. Exactly. I tweeted a picture of them. We went walking in Hampstead yesterday. It was snowing. And I do that thing when I hold back. And so Jane looks alone and I say, jane with all her friends, right? That made the papers. It made the papers, you know, so it gets. It gets amplified. It's all good. We've run out of time. Someone's just saying, I can't believe how fast this interview is going. I know I talk fast because I know. To cover it. I talk fast because I've got to get a word in edgeways. Sure. Just to give people a flavor of humanity. That's out on Netflix on March 13. Covers all of the ground that we've referenced, but also it does end up with you providing an almost watertight account of why you'd rather have Adolf Hitler around for dinner than a child with a food allergy. Let me explain. Right. So did you see it live? No. Okay. So I probably. I might have played this to, I don't know, 800,000 people around the world. They all laugh. They're all there. They're all there for the 70 minutes. They get everything. If you take one subject or one joke out of context, every single joke, there are 25 jokes that would seem like the worst thing anyone's ever said. It works perfectly together. But if you watch it all, it works, I promise you. My favorite actually was quite throwaway on stage where someone is telling you all about their child. I think it's one of your sisters. Is it? And show you a picture of the niece. And you say, oh, just show it to me if she. If she goes missing, isn't it? But yeah, you can't say that it is. But for me, that was a, like, oh, my God. So that's a joke about child abduction if you take it out of Concord. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly that, yeah. Oh, dear. That's it, mate. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations yet again. It goes out on Netflix on March 13, but you're taking it on the road again on you. No, I've done and dusted. Yeah. Got start again. I did it for a year. Yeah. Fantastic. Ricky Gervais. Thank you. Cheers. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Folkart. I'm stunned. The worst uncle in the world clearly haven't even heard about the funeral. And the tissues. Oh, my God. Although I felt the Adolf Hitler thing stood alone, didn't need context, that was fine. I was quite relaxed about that one. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.