What is the feeling I get when I think I'm falling? - 9 Jul 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC Text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, five minutes after twelve. Here we go. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you're new to this part of the program, you are, I modestly suggest him for a bit of a treat. Certainly a pleasant surprise. We steer away from the headier business of news and issues and focus instead upon mysteries and conundrum, the things that you know there must be answers to, but you've been unable to find. Ring in anything you've got. Seriously, who, why, what, where, when, whither, wherefore, even the occasional whence. Someone listening will know the answer to the question that you pose and will ring in on the same number to provide it. And satisfaction is achieved. In fact, this is the radio feature that refreshes parts other programs can only dream of reaching. I'll only say the number if I've got phone lines free. You'll be politely invited to move along by Michael and Rachel, who are answering the phones today. If you are being repetitious or dull. I know dull's a bit cruel, but it's very much. The management's decision is final on this. Don't ring me with a question about motoring or miles to the gallon or anything like that, okay? Only ring me with questions that you think other people who you've never met would be interested in. The answer to 345-606-0973 a sort of ongoing attempt to try to. Oh, that's nice. Thank you, Nancy. I think you forced me to see the light with regard to the tube driver. She says, thank you very much indeed. One mind at a time, that's all. But we are not talking about that now. We're talking about mysteries. And the trick is not to be boring and not to be repetitious. That's it. So ring in, get the question on the board, we'll get it answered by 01:00 today. We'll all know more than we do now. What's not to like? Seriously. And the thing I was about to do before I got distracted by Nancy's nice tweet was look at what we're going to do on Twitter. Twitter. Mystery hour has fallen by the wayside a little lately because, well, frankly, just because I'm a bit rubbish at remembering stuff, but I've remembered today, so we will have a question submitted via Twitter by someone who only listens to the podcast because they can't get involved in the live stuff. So I'll find that. Because I've already seen the one that I want to use this week. And here it comes. This is from. I've lost it. I thought I'd favourited it. I'll find it for you in a moment, okay? I promise. Ollie can sort of fill the gaps. Ollie's in Hyde Park. Ollie, what's your question? Hi, James. How you doing? I'm pretty good, mate. Well, what have you got for me? So, I think. Well, it's two very small questions, but I think possibly the answer may be combined to the two. Firstly, what is it that causes the dropping or falling sensation that, uh, can sometimes wake us up in the middle of the night? Hang on, why are you doing two? You're only allowed one. I know, but when I say the second one, you're probably going to say, oh, yeah, that could be the same. The answer could be the same to both. Well, I don't like it when people predict what I'm going to do. It makes me very uncomfortable. Gone. Ollie. I might be wrong. James. The second one. Our internal alarm clock. So if our alarm doesn't go up or for whatever reason. No, it's not that. Well, I think it's both minutes. Not related. Are you arguing with me? Ring in, ask a question, and then argue with the answer. Let's go with the first one, then. So, there we go. It's. It's a throwback to when we slept in trees. Yes. Yes. No, no, it really is. Okay. You sound skeptical. I do? Yeah. If you were sleeping in a tree, what's the worst thing that could happen? Well, I know, but if we set our alarm clock at a different time. Alarm clocks for. Oh, you mean the dropping sensation? Yes. Oh, I see. Okay. But I thought it was unproven as yet, and there was sort of various answers, but none. Then why are you ringing in with it, then? Because I was wanting to see if there was something conclusive now. Well, there is. It's a throwback to when we slept in trees. Okay. All right. Well, there we go. We've answered. Thank you. Thank you. No, no, no. It doesn't deserve that. I'm playing with him like a cat with a mouse, like a dog with a fox. Let's see if we can answer to all these. I think it's to do with lying in trees and it to do with falling out trees when we slept. Did we ever sleep sleeping trees? I don't know. Did Hitler really ban fox hunting? I don't know. I don't know. Phil's in Chertsey. Phil, what have you got? Good afternoon, James. I've got a lovely question for you. Well, I hope it's a lovely question. I'm sure it is. You're a lovely man. Thank you. I've been enjoying Wimbledon as usual this time of year. Yes, and it's very interesting to see the speed of the serve. But what I want to know is, where do they measure the speed of the serve? Is it as the ball leaves the racket head as it crosses the net or when it hits the. For the old hands on the other side ready for the person to return the surf? There needs to be two places, doesn't there? They need to measure how long it takes it to pass between points x and y. Like a speed camera on the motorway. Exactly. But where is it? Exactly. Where is it? I like. That's a lovely question. If we should have some Wimbledon music to play for Wimbledon themed questions, shouldn't we? Or something. We've got any sound effects? Axel, have we not got a thwart. Should I do my own? No, I'll do my own. I'll do my own. What was that, Phil? You want to know how the speed of a serve is measured at Wimbledon, where they measure the speed of the service at Wimbledon. That sounds about 3 miles an hour, James. I'm doing my best, mate. It's not. The BBC had to do that with my finger in my cheek. Right, we'll get fill in answer to that. Jay's in popular. Jay, question or answer? Hello? Hello, James. Hi, I'm just calling from back last week regarding the question, the question of how the password started. I love this question. I love. Thank you. Often I ask people to sort of remember me and bring back and they just sort of crack on with their normal lives and completely forget about me. I love you, Jay. Thank you. Yeah. So basically how this started and, you know, how originated and which country, the first passport. We just want to know the story of the first passport. Well, I mean, how did, how did it start? I mean, then when it started, which, when did country say, you can't come to our country without a visa? Yeah, I love it. It's a great question. Absolutely great question. It looks like we get answered definitely. Well, we've got a better chance than we did last week when you asked it at 1211. 57 at least. Getting it on at 1257. Getting on at 1211 gives you a much better chance. I've forgotten to write down the questions. What have we got so far? We've got passports. Tennis. Tennis serves. And the falling out of trees. Well, not falling out of trees. The falling sensation you get sometimes when you're nodding off to sleep. That, I think, has something to do with the days when we slept in trees. But then I suddenly remembered that I don't actually have any conclusive proof or knowledge that we ever did sleep in trees as a species. Oh, go. The theory that falling out of trees might be the explanation for why we get that falling sensation when we're dreaming might be totally hogwash. Angela's in Clapham. Angela, question or answer? Hi. It's a question. I'm really nervous. Why? Because I've listened to your show for years, and I've always tried to get through for this particular question, but I wanted to ask you, why do men always get through? But that isn't my question. Hang on, let me just see who's on the other line there. Okay. Misses? Why the men only get through? Who's on the other line there in reading? Hello? Who? Who? What? Poppy. Poppy? There you go. Angela. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. Yay. Where were we? Right. Okay. I hope this isn't a silly question. Right. My question is why, when criminals are arrested and you want to find out the truth, why are lie detectors not used on all criminals? To find out whether they've done it or not, will it make life simple? Yeah, but they're not. They're not completely foolproof. But still. What do you mean, but still? They're not. That's the answer to the question. Why don't. I mean, they use lie detectors sometimes. Some jurisdictions use them. The technology improves all the time. One of my favorite callers historically used to operate a lie detector company, and they do use them in quite a lot of context, but it can never be conclusive evidence in a court of law. Okay, well, maybe you've answered the question, then. What do you mean? Maybe I just wanted to know if they used them or why didn't they? But you've answered the question. I told you, I'm nervous. I don't sound very nervous. Picking holes in the show, getting all radical feminist on me, giving it all the why, where all the women nonsense, and Poppy was waiting just to make you look like a prune on line two. I feel like a prune. Okay, so have you given me the answer then, or not? No, I have. Yeah. Well, I mean, why don't they use lie detectors on criminals? I said they do sometimes. But it's never going to be conclusive enough to be. To be evidence in a court in a british court of law countries. But the technology is not foolproof. You can fool them. I've got a lot of friends who work on the Jeremy Kyle show and sometimes the lie detectors they use there aren't necessarily bang on the money as well. Oh, so why? Okay, I always thought that they were like 100% conclusive. That's why I asked that question. Did you really think they were 100% conclusive? My lie detector says you never did. They're not reliable because they measure things like fluid on the skin or heart rate. And all of these things you can actually train yourself to control. Okay. You know, like if you want to calm yourself down, you can. Whether you do deep breathing or whether you close your eyes and envision a nice peaceful pastoral scene with a lovely fox hunt gambling over the hills. So there's things you can do to control your physiological and psychological reaction to stimuli. And that's all a lie detector is. It's trying to detect stimuli, response to stimuli. But wouldn't that take a lot of training? Well, yes, but that's why it's not used in a court of law. Because if it did, you'd train yourself, wouldn't you? The bigger the criminal, the bigger the more likely the trial. I'm going to give myself a round of applause, Andrew, and put us both out of your misery. It's 1215 deep, minutes after twelve. What is that falling sensation we get as we are asleep? Not usually dropping off to sleep. We just sense. Whoa. You know that jarring thing? I've got a feeling. Well, I'll tell you, you can work out from this tweet what my feeling is. What has tweeted at Mister James ob to say your certainty followed by uncertainty regarding that falling sleeping question is what is known as a dad fact. James offered as a fact is not a fact. Well, I know you only had 140 characters because I think you would have added might be a fact. Dad facts might be facts. It's the confidence which you state that they are that marks them out as dad facts. And I love this as well. You know what they say about clouds. Thank you, tube drivers, writes Pete Joseph, working from home today. So I actually get to listen to mystery hour live. Hi, Pete. Poppy is in reading, but we knew that already. Poppy, question or answer? Question. Always a question. Always a question. Carry on. Okay, so emotions are nothing. Well, not nothing more. It's important. But they're chemicals in our body like reacting and stuff like women's hormones and makes you cry sometimes and things like that. So my question is, can we control the chemicals in our body? And you know what's really annoying? The answer is sort of, I think. I mean, you can control some of them some of the time, but you can never be in complete control of your hormonal or chemical composition. And what's your qualifications for that answer? Well, now you put me in an embarrassing situation. What? You don't need any. Everyone knows this. What are you giggling about? You think about it. I mean, drugs would be the most obvious way to explain it. You can take a drug to affect your chemical balance in your brain, or else. And it wears off and then you get a hangover. Yeah. So you can't affect it permanently. You can affect it some of the time. Why are you laughing at me? Everyone knows this is the answer. It's you that you should be laughing at yourself, not at me. It's not a particularly good answer, though, is it? That is sometimes the way knowledge works, madam. You can have someone else's knowledge. No, you flipping can't. That is. I mean, what do you think? You think that someone's going to ring in and say, yeah, if you take this tablet, you'll feel fantastic every day for the rest of your life? No, but somebody from some university somewhere might have a better answer. Excuse me? I think you'll find I have a bachelor of science degree from the London School of Economics. Okay, well, then some professor somewhere and bag of gymnastics, grade four cycling proficiency. Really, our emotion, if our emotions are simply chemicals in our bodies reacting, can we control the chemicals in our body? Answer no. Or some of the control it. And if I get a rage on? Well, no. You mean Ken? What do you mean? Now, now you've got me all confused. You mean, can you calm yourself down? Or do you mean, can you take something to calm yourself down? Can you control. Can. It's just. That's just the question. You can't change the question. I need to understand it before anyone could answer it. Someone else might understand it. You want to take that risk? I can't. I can't let you. No, I can't let this go. What do you mean, no? You can't go on the board. Shall I tell you why? Because I've received a complaint. About you or from me? From Terry. What? Terry says, I think James has his favorites on mystery hour. And special dispensation is given to the professor and to Poppy. You know what? No. I've run you three times with a question. It doesn't matter if people are accusing me of bias, Poppy. I've got ofcom to worry about. Listen, I can't get into trouble. I can't do it. I can't. I've got. I got it. I've got to mug you off. Whatever. Do you just whatever me while I was mugging you off? If that makes you feel good. Can't believe you. Whatever'd me while I was mugging you off. Oh, my God. Now you're omg me. It's your shave. It will. Your boots. Thank you. I'll leave your question on the board in return for that graciousness, albeit slightly reluctant. Thank you, Poppy. Can you control your emotions? The chemical, in the chemical sense, so, you know, you can calm yourself down, but how much control can you exercise over your chemically induced emotional behavior? Ben's in Aldershot. Question or answer? Ben. I got an answer. James. Carry on, mate. Thanks for holding. Never. I thought I was never going to get rid of her. Yeah, I'm not really sure how to follow that one up anyway. Go on, what have you got? Tennis serves. Now, I can't remember where I saw this, but I definitely saw it last week that they measure the speed from the racket, because by the time it gets to the baseline on the other side, it slowed down a lot because of the air resistance. The ball. Yeah, but from where to where? From racket to net. Where? Do we know where? Just as it comes off the racket immediately. But it's got to be from a to b. There's got to be two points of measurement, hasn't there? Yeah, I was perusing the article. I didn't read it fully. Yeah, but I'm. But I. One of the points would be, I mean, from as soon as possible after it leaves the racket to somewhere else, because you've got to calculate velocity, you need to have distance and time. But it's. Yeah, so, you know, you can only work out how fast it's gone if you know how far it's gone and how long it took. So they're measuring time and distance to calculate. Yeah. Oh, yeah, that's true. It's always going to be slower because obviously the ball. No, no, no. But you still need to have. It still needs to make a journey. The speed it takes to cover. Well, does it? Does it? Yeah, it has to. You can't have a speed if you're not moving, and you can't be moving if there's not two points to measure. I can't give you a round of applause, Ben, but I give you a promise that if it turns out I've been a prune on this one, I'll give you a retrospective clap. No problem. All right. Cheers, dad. Carry on, Peters, in Shepherd's Bush. Question or answer, Peter? It's an answer, James. Carry on. It's about the passports. The passports, where did they come from? First passport. I've been listening to some audiobooks and I listened to one on antiquities and I remember it being said. What being written? The first ones were recorded 450 BC. 450 BC? Yeah. By persian kettle. Persian king Darius. I didn't want to google it. I said to you, fair play, fair play to you. It's the only persian king I can sort of think of off the top of my head. Your researcher did mention the name. It was, uh. What? And tracks you. So I don't know. You. You were talking. You were talking to a woman, weren't you? Not a man. From this. The headphones I got on my phone, it sounded like a man. I just don't have any salty money. There's no way the fellow answering phones came out with an ancient persian king. Well, I'll tell you what, he must have had a quick Google on it. There's going to be trouble. It's going to be. There's going to be tears before bath time, I'll tell you that for nothing. So, go on, then. So, 450 BC. What was it? What was the first passport? It was basically a letter on a papyrus. I'll gather, because I'm going to follow it on then. And it was given. So when people crossed the river, they had a letter from the king and they would give them good passage. And if they weren't, then the repercussions would have come from attacking one of the king's emissaries. I like this. And how do you know that was the first recorded occasion of a kind of passport? Passport pass through a port. So the river works. No, no, because it follows on for now. That was the recording. The first recorded of documents to give safe passage from country to country. Yeah. And then on that I did. After it got me interested, after I had your call to last week saying he'd ring up this way. Clever, clever, clever. And I did. Look. And the first official passport. Little bit of a cheat here, but. No, it's not a cheat, actually. This is a loophole. Right, thanks for the loophole, because you can't Google stuff if it's live on the show. But. But Wayne in Basildon. I'm surprised he's not around yet. He will be in a minute when he hears Twitter. Mystery. He went out and bought a book called Brewers Dictionary of phrase and fable, just so that he could be a mystery hour bore, but because he knew that lots of questions would come up subsequently about the origins of phrases and words. Why do we say that? Why do we do that? So he read a whole book about it and I can never get him off the phone on Thursdays. So you haven't broken any rules because you looked it up after last week's show, hoping it would come up again this week. That's fine, mate. Don't beat yourself up. That's absolutely fine. And the first recorded parts, Paul per se, was under King George. Oh, yeah. And they were written on gold tablets, apparently, whether they were golden Georgie. Which George? King George or George the first? Georgia Fifth. Sorry? George the fifth. Really? British citizens could travel and maybe the French as well, because, of course, what you've just reminded me of, no one would have left the country, would they? Until relatively recently. Not from soldiers. Everyone would have recognized that. A king of England. So if you had a bit of his documentation, you knew that if you caused trouble with the. The traveler, be it the emissary or whoever. Yes. Then there would be repercussions thereafter. And I think it states on today, passport that unimpeded free passage and protection under. Under the crown, her britannic majesty. Peter, you've done it. You've done it. I don't give this a round of applause. I'll tell you what, give it to someone that deserves it later on, that kind of gets near the. No, no, no, no. I'm not having any of that. Not having any of that. You're taking this whether you want it or not. James. What? Thanks for that. And I'll tell you what, you are the number one dude on LBC, without a doubt. Very, very middle of the road. I do listen to all your shows and all of LBC shows, so I do find that I'm effing and jeffing at some of your presenters, but with you, I just. I just think that you're. Bless you, mate. Have another round of applause, quick. Plenty of people laughing and jeffing at me. Make that absolutely clear. It's 12:30. 34 is the time. Quick clarification. I think it's Henry V, not George V, but I think it was just a slip looking for a royal name. Henry George. George. Henry Charles, you know. Easy mistake to make. So, Peter, it was Henry V, but rounds of applause still stand for that sterling answer regarding passports. If you've got a question that needs answering, you know what to do. We're still looking for answers to the questions about the speed of a tennis ball and how they measure it at Wimbledon and the falling sensation. You get that I've got this feeling has something to do with us sleeping in trees back in the day. But you know when you're in bed and you're falling asleep, sometimes you just jolt away because you feel like you've fallen. And Poppy's weird question about emotions and chemicals, if you understood it, then you can answer it. It's our idea. Mark's in Putney. Mark. Question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on. Obviously, your surname is O'Brien and you have O'Brien, O'Malley, O'Neill. What's the O signifier and what are its origins? Oh, I know this. It's son of. So it's denotes clan membership. So I would have been originally, I think, a member of Brian Beru's clan. He was the last king of Ireland. So all the O'Briens were. Were members of that clan. So the O signifies the word of, obviously, son of. Yeah. Like Mac does as well. I think Mac is son of as well, isn't it? And Fits. I think Fitz. Fitz is a good one. I think Fitz means illegitimate son of. But I could have got. I could have got that wrong. You what? I still got a couple of friends who are fit. I don't know if it still applies, but I just know. I know that because when your name has got an apostrophe in it, you ask when you're a kid what it means. And that's what my dad told me. I'm 99% sure it's true. You haven't met my friends. It probably would have quite a problem. Just behave yourself. Round of applause, please. Thank you. Professor Hal is here. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. I don't know which one you've rung in about. What have you got? Hello, James. Tennis? Yes. I think you're wrong, mate. I think they use radar in the same way as a police officer would use radar to catch a speeding motorist. And what that does is it measures the change in frequency of reflected radar and it uses a Doppler effect. You know how a racing car or an ambulance, the pitch of the noise changes as it comes towards you? Yeah. It changes because the moving body squashes its own sound, so the frequency goes up and a moving tennis ball or a moving car will squash the radar waves that is reflecting back, moving towards them. And that's how the change in the frequency of the radar waves is what's picked up. So there's no need to have a six point b. So he was right then. The first caller I wasn't really listening to, quite honestly. That's very kind of you, but he was kind of right. I said, you can't be right because you have to have journey measured from a to b. But you're explaining to me that you don't need that. Well, technically, technically you do, but it can be a journey consisting of only one or two radar wavelengths, which is about maybe, I don't know, 5 cm. But you could get it in one byte, as it were. Yes, exactly. And also, don't forget, when they serve, they don't serve from the same place each time. So you'd have to have sort of a very variable starting point in the variable. Variable, everything. Yeah. Well, you're going to share it with Matt. Was Matt. Matt rang in with that. I think it was Matt, wasn't it? So you have to share it with Matt. Good work. Good work. Katie's in Sunbury. Question or answer? Katie. It's an answer to the emotion question. Yes. Okay. As I understood the question. Well done. There is some emotional, physiological things that we can't control. So that would be, for example, the fight or flight response. Yes, of course. Adrenaline. Boom. Exactly. Which you can't control. However, you can learn to adapt your cognitive reaction to those chemicals. Yes. So things like CBT, anger management, stress management, mindfulness, all those kind of things which can in turn lead to neurological changes in the brain. Wow. Yeah. So it's kind of like a big circle, if you see what I mean. So if you have a problem with anger management, for example, so you're not very good at controlling the fight response, the adrenaline response, you can learn to control that. And then that in turn can have an impact on your adrenaline production. Of course, it makes perfect sense when you explain it like that. And that is what, that is what she meant. So you can actually take measures to modify the impact of the chemical changes. So that would, that would apply to things like being happy. So that would be like the dopamine pathway in the brain. So that would be things like CBT for depression or, you know, things like that which are very effective at increasing dopamine in the brain. And even, you know, when you get a bit shaky, don't you, with the adrenaline, with fight or flight. So for sports, people, they need to control that. And I think Wimbledon is a really good time to focus on how much of it is about mental strength. So on their day, the best players in the world all pretty much of a muchness in terms of what they can do with a racket and a ball. But when the pressure is on and the spotlight is on and the victory is in sight, you can see Andy Murray's development over the years as someone who used to get rattled into someone who hardly ever does. And he employs a psychiatrist, not a psychologist now, to help him. Absolutely. So it's about mental toughness and resilience and things like that, which you can train yourself for. You can. And anger management. I often find the best way to manage anger is to look a lot. To spend a lot of time looking at people who can't. Yeah. And interestingly, you know when they say sort of do the count to ten thing, that's to allow the physiological thing to pass. Yeah. So when you get that initial rational adrenaline, if you count to ten, that allows that automatic response to pass and then suddenly you're not that person anymore. Precisely. So you can then make a rational decision on how to act in the situation. So, yeah, so it's like a big circle. So you can. You can sort of change your neurological, neurological responses but you need to train yourself to do so. But in order to do that, you have to have the chemical in the first place. Love it. Remind me of your qualifications, Katie. I've just graduated from university and psychology student. Fantastic. What are you going to do next? I've just been accepted on a couple of MSc programs so I'm just choosing my MSc. Round of applause galore. Congratulations as well. Have you had your results yet? Yeah, I passed as an upper t one so I was quite pleased about that very respectable degree. Well done you, Katie. 1241, Julian's in Thornton Heath. Julian, question or answer? Answer. James, lovely to talk to you. Likewise, likewise. It's about the falling or tripping when you're falling asleep. Oh yes. What's that all about? Well, I believe it's called myoclastic jerk. Greek word. Steady on, mate. Right. Yeah, it's myoclastic jerk. Whoa. Just rid your neck in. All right? Who? You. Do you hear me? What? You can't just come on my show, start banding around names like that. Well, go on, try again. Right. It's, uh. Apparently it's um, the point when you're consciousness and unconsciousness. So you're just about to fall asleep. Yeah. And the unconscious part of the brain is sort of taking over and it doesn't know. It's just checking whether you're dying or whether you're alive. So it will put a pulse through your body and it makes your. Your feet sort of jerk. And with me, it's not a case of falling. I. In my sleep, I feel as if I'm just tripping up. Yes, that's right. That's more like what I feel like. It's not. It's not like it. It's a, like, hoodoo. You fall back to sleep again. What's it called then? Myoplastic. And I've just one. I've been waiting. I've just been trying to work. Well played. Sorry. Carry on my own. Might be, like, short. Yeah. And the clastic, it's like, you know, in a volcanic eruption. You have pyroclastic klas. Yeah. So it might be like a. I don't know, short explosion. Explosion. This is first class. And I like the way you completely ignored my childish attempt to pretend you were calling me a myoclastic jar. It's the nerves. No, it wasn't the nerves. It was the mature. You say nerves, I say maturity. Okay, you were mature and I wasn't, mate. And I'm sorry. You made me feel like a right prune. No, but you know what? You've made me feel like so many questions over the past. History is my topic, usually. Is it? Well, you've done. You've excelled yourself on my classic jerks today. In fact, you've made me feel like one. Well, I have to work with some of them because I'm a carpenter by trade. But the answer to this, if you want to know it, where I got it from, yes, I do. Hugh Laurie on house. Oh, really? Yeah. I really love that program. I sort of learned something from it every time, and it stuck in my mind. This the answer to this, because I was wondering, why does it happen? And then he came out, you know, with his answer, and it just lodged in the brain today to stay there until I needed it. You, Julian, take this from me with gratitude. Come back. What happened to your nerves? Then with that very childlike woo hoo. It's the relief that I got my first. My first applause. Congratulations. There you go. It was relevant to Poppy's question as well there. He couldn't control the chemical surge rushing to his brain through his dopamine pathways. It's 1244. Yeah, I'm with you on this, Jay. He says, I do love this ad, James, you start off feeling stupid and end feeling knowledgeable, and yet also at the same time more stupid, it seems to me to be a fairly, fairly accurate summary of mystery. I will return. Oh, hang on. Have I left it too late to do a quick Twitter one? Is Wayne and Basildon around? What is the odd. Because I promised I'd do this one. Gemma made me promise and I have failed. So I'll do it next week if we don't get an answer this week. What's the origin of that phrase I keep using to fill your boots? When I say, fill your boots, you know, fill your. What does that even mean? How can you fill your boots? You can only wear your boots. You put your shoes. You put your feet in your boots and they're full. Where does fill your boots come from? As a phrase? If you know the answer to that, I'll give you the money myself. Zero 345-606-0973 and if you want to get your question on next week's show, and you only usually listen on podcasts, then you need hashtag Twitter mystery hour. Zero 345-606-0973 I've got some phone lines free, so look, if you can answer any of these, you'll get on. Oh, hang on. We've answered them all. We haven't got any left. Oh, my God. We're victims of our own success. It's 1245, ten minutes to one. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we have answered pretty much all the questions, except, of course, that thing I told you about the sports minister who was due to make a speech in the romanian capital, Bucharest, but flew somewhere else instead. I wonder if you can guess where this story is. Brilliant. I've only just read to the end of it and it's possible that the ending is funnier than the beginning. I'll give you full details before the end of the program, I promise. But we need a few more questions on the board. Shaun is in Croydon. Shaun, question or answer? It's a question. James. Yes, hi. I just wanted to know, in property addresses and the postal service, which came first? Did properties always have addresses or were addresses created because of the postal service? I mean, I might be misunderstanding the question, but how would I know where you lived if I wanted to come and visit you if you didn't have an address? Exactly. But I don't know. I don't know because, like a lot of people, like the penny post only came in. My friends know where I live, but they don't know my address. They just know where I live. And people may have done that before and people are people who know me, who know where I live, asked me for my address when they want to send me a card. Yeah. So before post happened, you think that you just lived in a house? Did properties have addresses? How do you prove you owned it? How would you prove. Sean, it's not. I'm trying to help you, mate. Stop. Stop talking over me when I'm talking over you. How would you know you owned it? How would you know it was your house? That's a good question. I never thought of that. Yeah, I know you didn't, mate. So how would you prove it was your house to someone else? I don't know. Well, let's try and think of a way. What could be. What could be, like an identifying feature of a residential property. We can give it. You can give it a name, like a house name, but that's not really an address as such, is it? I think you'll find it is. So you start off with Green House or Red House or house next to pub and you think, which pub on the green. You may be right. What do you mean, I may be right? I still don't know which came first. I think that might be your problem rather than a bona fide mystery. All right, then. Well, if that's your best answer. I mean, it's pretty late in the day, so I don't think we're going to get anyone who knows any more than you. No, no, no, we've got a massive. No, no, no. There's a massive misunderstanding unfolding here. It's not a question of my answer. Oh, we'll have to make do because it's 1253 and it's a question of my answer being perfect and your question being ridiculous. All right, James, I'll let you have this one. No, again, you're not letting me have anything. Sean, your question was so easy to answer that I don't think you should have asked it. And I'm not going to let you go until you say sorry. Okay. Well, James, I love your show and you're the best presenter in LBC, so I'm very, very sorry. I mean, I did try and get around and I couldn't, you know. Ben's on Tottenham Court Road. Ben, what have you got? Hello, James. How's it going? I'm all right, actually. I don't know how I'm going to get home, but, hey, carry on. Don't worry about that. Walk. Right, so, a few weeks ago I heard you say, one swallow a summer does not make. I did say. Yeah, yeah, you did indeed. And now I live in rural Kent. I grew up in rural Kent. Oh, lovely. And I sort of had a little hiatus away, come back. Oh. And I have not seen one single swallow this summer. Even when we were kids, used to see their nests, like, under the. Under the eaves of various houses and stuff like that. Yeah. I haven't seen a single swallow this summer. So my question is, where have all the swallows gone? Where have all the swallows gone? Oh, it's almost a poem, isn't it? I love that. I've seen a few, but. But, I mean, you used to see loads and now you don't see any. People will recognize that. Where have all the swallows gone? There was a horrible story. Was it a Malta? Where they used to eat them all, throw a big net in the air and catch all the songbirds. So, all right, where have all the swallows gone? Um. Do you know the darling buds of May? You know the he Bates books? Yeah, I live. I live 5 miles away from where they filmed it, you see, in rural Kent. Do you want to know something really sad? Chiswick Waterstones. Right? Waterstones in Chiswick, which must be among the most middle class bookshops on the planet, has not sold. I am often in there waving away. They have not sold a copy of the darling buds of May by he Bates since 2007. Really? Isn't it disgraceful? I went in to buy one for my eldest and didn't have it. And the bloke behind the counter, like me, couldn't believe it. You go back, what, 20 years? When the tv show was on, we were all buying it and he used to have lovely barrel cook covers on them and everything. Superb books. And it just. Just occurred to me that fashion. Don't think of fashion applying to literature, but it does. Right, we need quite. What we doing banging on about he Bates books? We need to get an answer to the question of where all the swallows have gone. Andy's in Hartford. Andy, question or answer? Answer. Go on, James. After the postcode chat, I'll let you know. I'm a first time caller. No, no, he wasn't. Seriously, I've got history with him. You'll be fine. All right? Okay. A few years ago, a job I was working in, we had a lot of downtime and we did something very similar to what you do. Question and answer. Oh, yeah. And the question came up about, fill your boots, where does that come from? And the answer I was given was days of the roundheads and soldiers going round, and when they got to a watering hole, the captain and the guard would say, fill your boots and the boots are their leather water bottles. So carry as much as you can through your boots. I love that. I mean, I've had a couple of alternatives, but only historical alternatives, suggesting that it's. It might not have been the roundheads and the cavaliers, it might have been a different period, it might have been the navy. But if they were calling a leather bottle a boot, then that would be exactly the answer to it. Scott in Uxbridge suggested it comes from pirates. When they couldn't carry any more booty, they would put it in their boots. Now you say it. You say it's possible, isn't it? No, no. Come on, mate, don't be diplomatic. Tell me what you think of that answer. I think it's rubbish. You can buy a thick leather cup in Portsmouth at the Nelson Museum. It's a replica of the sailor's mug used on board in Nelson's time. So regardless of when it was historically introduced, the fact that it was a water bottle has earned Andy and Hartford, first time caller, but not, I suspect, his last call. Now he's got a taste for rewards like this. Cheers, Andy. Cheers. Bye bye. It's 1258. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. That's it. We've cleared the board, haven't we? We just don't know where all the swallows went. Can we do that first next week? I like the way we carried that one on. And that was a Twitter mystery hour question on filling your boots, and I want to read you this because it's the funniest thing I've read all day. A sports minister due to make a speech in the romanian capital, Bucharest, blundered by flying to Budapest in Hungary instead. So already we're supposed to be chuckling away. Budapest, Bucharest. Wait for the last line. It's a killer. Steve Pallet did not realize his mistake until his flight was about to land 500 miles from his intended destination. Mister Pallet, Jersey's sports minister, had been due to receive a flag for the 2016 Dance World cup being staged on the Channel island. He has apologised to event organisers in Romania and for wasting 1000 pounds worth of taxpayers money, but blamed the confusion on human error by officials in his department who booked the flight. It is not the first time Mister Pallet, 56, has been at the center of a travel mishap. In 2013, on an official trip to the Falkland Islands, his luggage got lost in Chile, meaning he had to attend black tie events in a pair of shorts. I mentioned that to you today because some of my colleagues have decided to wear shorts to work today, and they're even funnier than that story. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from 10:00 I'm James O'Brien. This is LBC. The next voice you will hear belongs to, to Sheila Fogarty.