Can I paint my ex girlfriends dog for Valentines day? - 12 Feb 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC six minutes after twelve is the time, and if you follow me on twitter, then there's a new game you can play on Thursday afternoons from twelve. It's all thanks to Dylan, who has tweeted James O'Brien's mystery Hour intro. Bingo. He's put it all together and there are various phrases he thinks I'm going to repeat as I introduce this week's mystery Hour. And Dylan's going to have a digestive biscuit every time I say one of them. You can join him in that game of questionable fun if you so desire. I'm going to have to close it now, otherwise I'm going to say all of these things. I'm going to do it cold and blind so that you don't know that I'm deliberately feeding Dylan digestives. This is your weekly opportunity to get an answer to the questions that you have been puzzled by previously, whether for weeks, months, years, or just for a matter of moments. It's also the only hour of radio that comes with a cast iron guarantee that by 01:00 today, you will know more than you do now. It's going to be a bit odd this week because, like me, you're probably still reeling from some of the things that Bill Browder just shared with us. That book red notice is available now, and the podcast of that interview will be available on the LBC website later this afternoon. We'll put that one out for free because I think the more people that can listen to it, the better. And I say that even with all the tweets coming in saying, are you sure you're safe conducting this conversation? No, I'm not, but I think I probably am. Mystery hours, however you look at it, slightly less controversial territory. If you have got a who or why, a what, a when, a where, a wither or a wherefore, a question that needs an answer that you haven't been able to find, then call me now and ask it on zero 345-606-0973 it's always true on this program that if you hear me say the phone number out loud, then I have at least one phone line into the studio free. If I don't give you the phone number, we end up speaking to the same three people every day, which would be particularly irritating on mystery hour. So zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. You've got a better chance of getting through now than you have on any other Thursday in the whole of 2014 because we very rarely do a whole hour without activating the phones, as we've just done with Bill Browder. But trust me when I tell you, it will fill up quickly when you put your question to Michael and Talia, who will be answering the phones. I sounded like the chief steward on an airplane then, didn't I? Michael and Thalia will be opening the phones today, and if it's boring or repetitive, you'll be sort of politely asked to jog on. All right. Varying degrees of politeness. I don't know how polite it will be. Depends how busy we get. And we usually get pretty flipping busy, so zero 345-606-0973 get the question on the board. If it's boring or repetitious, that is, if it's something we've dealt with before or it's about motoring or something similar, then just sort of take your ball home, if you would, and we'll get someone else because the switchboard fills up so, so quickly. If you hear somebody ask a question to which you know the answer, ring me on the same number. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call and we'll try and get you an answer. The only rule on answering is obviously you can't. We've had a few Google gate incidents lately. It's very embarrassing to me. You're not allowed to use search engines. Otherwise we could all go home, couldn't we? I mean, there's no point. This is a celebration of illumination, elucidation. It's a celebration, if you will, of knowledge learned the old fashioned way. It's harking back to the days when kids weren't allowed to take calculators into their exams or use a spell check before submitting their homework. You see what I mean? So if you hear someone ask a question you know the answer to, call me. If you'd like to ask your own question, call me. And breaking with tradition, I've had my own question on the mystery, our board, for the last three weeks now, and it still needs an answer. So we're going to put that one on the board as well. And I will get one off Twitter for everybody who's listening via podcast rather than live. That's it. Right? Should we kick on? Let's kick on. Kieran's in tooting. Kieran, what's your question? Hello there. My question is when you shave. There's a lot of rumors that say that you encourage hairstyle, so when you shave you should get a thicker beard. The reason I ask is earlier on saying that women were taking this up to try and keep their youthful look. Where did you hear that? I'm pretty sure it was on your show earlier on in the week. Just checking, just checking. Kieran. Keep me on your toes. Keep me on your toes. So is it true that it grows back thicker when you shave? I like that question. And if you're wondering what Kieran's blathering on about, there was a woman in the mail earlier this week who's been shaving for years and reckons that it keeps her face younger looking because of the exfoliation and stuff than most women's. Whereas men tend to age facially a little better. Have you never tried it yourself? Have you never shaved a sort of stripe down your legs or something like that? To be honest, I'm quite lazy when it comes to shaving. That's probably why my beard is so thin and wispy. You and me both, Kieran. I'm gonna. I've got a lovely beard. I'm just lazy when it comes to shaving. Guess what I'm gonna have to do soon, though? Save. I've been ordered for a new job to shave my beard off. Really? Was that. Well, I'll leave you to work that out. It's coming up to eleven minutes after twelve. When I say a new job, it's in addition to this job. Don't worry about that. I'm not going anywhere. Neil's in Bedford. Neil, question or answer? Yes, question, James. Carry on. How do they determine an animal's sense of smell? When they say dogs have got a sense of smell, which is, I don't know, 50 times greater than a human. And a shark can detect a drop of blood in water from a mile away. But how can they detect, how do they know this? Oh, I mean, the second one is probably quite straightforward. They drop a. They drop a drop of blood in the sea when there's some sharks a mile away and see if any of them come sniffing around. Okay, what about the dog? How do I know it's the number is it's 50 times more power? It might be made up. Well, they say documentary, the whole. Yes. Is that like a drugstore can detect drugs? I don't know if they could put a number. I mean, you can prove that the dog has got much more sensitive smell than the human because you and I can't smell what they can smell. No, that's true, but how do they know how much more sensitive. Yes, I like that question I'm just not sure it will have an answer it might just be a scientific estimate why am I even trying to speculate on what the answer might not be? Neil? I don't know. Because you like to speculate? James where would we be without speculation? Neil? Where would we be without speculation? It's twelve minutes after twelve how do they determine the strength of an animal's sense of smell? Does shaving make your hair grow back thicker? Zero. 345-606-0973 Claire's in reigate Claire, question or answer? What's the point of wasps? Pardon? Wasps. Wasps. I love bees. Yes I would never kill them. I've got bumblebees that come to my garden every summer. I've got an allergy to wasps oh, and what have you. What do they do? Well, you know this, don't you, Claire? Sorry? You know this. What they do is what all flying insects do. Yeah, but I would never kill a bee. But wasps that. They're just so dangerous. They do. I know. It's almost like they've got. What do they do? What insects do? They. They capture aphids they keep green flies down but they're more importantly, they're pollinators, aren't they? Yeah every time they land on a flower and then they get covered in stuff and then they land on another flower and otherwise, without wasps and other flying insects the flowers would never breed, they'd never pollinate yeah, but bees do that. Wasps don't do that. What? Wasps do do that. Wasps do do that. Oh, you know that. I'm pretty sure of it well, let's see. But they also eat aphids and green flies and little sort of bugs. They're nasty creatures I'm not disputing the central nastiness of a wasp I'm just answering the question what's the point? I was in Spain three years ago. I got stung by a wasp. Yes. I had to have injections in my backside and in my arm and what? I have it. And they said to me, you're allergic to wasps. Wow. You live and learn, Claire of course I do. The wasps have to have a point. I mean, there are a few things off the top of my head that seem relatively pointless. I just looked up and saw Ed Miliband on the telly when I said that. Claire, you make me laugh. I do my best. It's better than a stingy me up Aaron is in St. Albans. Aaron, question or answer? It's an answer. Did I get that right? That last one? Um. Which last one? The wasps one about the wasps. Yeah. They're pollinators, aren't they? Wasps are pollinators. Pretty sure they're pollinators. Most flying insects, I think. All right, park that thought, Jones. Come on, on your toes. Thank you. Flipping eck. It's like pulling teeth. Now, Aaron, Aaron, where were we? Yes, this is an answer to the. Does hair grow back thicker if you shave it? Oh, yes. It's a short answer. It's. No, it doesn't. We might need a bit more than that. Yeah. So there's two things to this question. First of all, why would it is the first question. There's no reason that the follicle the hair grows from should suddenly go, oh, we're going to get bigger and grow thicker hair just because someone shaved it. It's dead protein to start with. And the other side of it is it's just the. It's an optical illusion. It's, well, optical and I suppose sensory illusion. Something that's shorter in comparison appears thicker in the way we see it. And possibly it's slightly thicker at the base as well because it might draw out towards the tip and get. Hair does taper, doesn't it? Why is that? Because it must come out thick and then taper, as you say. It just dries out or something. I believe it dries out. I think it's mild erosion. Erosion? Some mild erosion of hair. Unlikely friction. We need a hairdresser for this one. Well, I think you've done enough. So it is, it is a myth. It is unfortunately a myth. And I suppose it's fortunate because otherwise you'd all have massive hair by the time we go out. Well, I always heard, and I don't know whether eyebrows are different. I always heard if you ended up with eyebrows like Dennis Healy, it probably meant that you'd had them shaved off at boarding school while you were asleep in the dormitory. Yeah, I think that's. Let's keep that sound effect whenever someone says something that we're a little bit uncooked. Can you just do it again while Jones has got the tape running? Yeah, I love that. It's 1216. Oh no. Come. This is LBC after twelve. I think we could have answered Mister Miller's question there about the looney tuniness of Vladimir Putin in the. I think we did answer it in the last hour, that podcast of the interviewer Bill Browder, which is causing quite a rumpus still on Twitter. Rest assured, if you missed it, I'll make sure you get another chance to listen. Aaron, I owe you an apology. We didn't give you a round of applause. I know. I've been waiting. I've been waiting patiently. Thank God you haven't gone away. Jones engineer missed one already today. And let's just see if he's on the ball now. Okay. Thank you. Was it worth the wait? It was. Right? Answer, 21 after twelve. Sam is in Richmond. Question or answer, Sam? I have an answer. James, come on in. Right, so your question as to why we can't lie in when we've been working all week is I try and make it fairly simple. Essentially, we have evolved over the last words, million years to have a circadian rhythm, a small area. Our brain programs and regulates our sleep and it reacts to daytime tears, like light, essentially. And we have a, essentially a 24 hours cycle. Yes. This with modern living, with work, with certain pressures, can be reprogrammed slightly. So when we work every day, our circadian rhythm is set for when my alarm goes off on Monday to Friday. I am absolutely certain I could roll straight back over and go to sleep. When I wake up without the alarm on Saturday and Sunday, I can't. That's because your whole brain, your core brain, has been programmed to wake up at that time and you're doing that. But when I wake up on that time, five days a week, I could easily go back to sleep. But your brain doesn't know that. So on the weekends, when you have, my brain does know that, because my brain is telling the rest of me that I could easily go back to sleep. My brain's telling me I'm tired, I don't want to get up, I want go back to sleep. Why can't I go back to sleep? Because your core brain, your circadian rhythm has been programmed, it doesn't matter how many times you say circadian rhythm sound, it's not going to change the central floor in your theory, which is that I'm somehow programmed to get up at the weekends because I don't want to get up on the other five days of the week and I love my job. Before we go down that line, well, that's that time you're fighting it. The same reason as when, maybe if you're working hard during the day and you think, when I get home, I'm going to go straight to bed because you're so knackered, but you can't go to sleep, it's not the same as that at all. It's not the same as that at all. Because on a Monday this morning, for example, I'm having to get up early this week because Ferrari is in America and if the line goes down, so someone's got to be here to step in. So I've been getting up even earlier this week, every single morning this week, guaranteed to you that if the phone rang a minute after my alarm goes off and they said, it's all right, stay at home, Steve Allen's doing a six hour marathon show, I would roll over, go straight back to sleep. Absolutely stone cold, guaranteed. So Saturday and Sunday don't have to get up. It's more to do with you yourself. Some people can get up very early in the morning and have no problem with it. Some people are more night owls, probably during your childhood. Sam, it's a good try, and I'm going to pay you the compliment of not slowly fading you out as you continue to try and claw back some credibility. That can't possibly be the answer. Do you know how many tweets I got on Saturday morning this week? About 708:00 on Saturday morning, all these tweets say, God, you're right. You're right, James. I can't go back to sleep. Harvey's in Bromley. Question or answer, Harvey. Hello there, James. It's a question. It's an idea as well. I split up with my girlfriend over the last week, and it's coming up to Valentine's, and she'll be sitting around with her friends and they'll all be talking about what they've got for Valentine's, and I feel that she'll be left out and I still like her. Yeah. You know, I don't want to feel bad like that. And to be honest, I probably do want to creep back into her affections nicely. But her and her pals are all from in Essex, so you know how they like their animal prints? They like their God. Oh, you mean like animal princeton? I don't know. Yeah. Tiger skin cushions and Tiger City and all this. And I thought, she's got a little lap dog, you know, these sort of toy dogs I have, which is white, but she keeps saying to me about it being a hair dog and not a fur dog. Right. Yeah. So I thought what would be really endearing and quite cute is if I dyed her a dog to look like a tiger, then it would match her front room and she'd like the idea of that and it might sort of get me back in her affections. So I wanted to know whether you could die the dog because it's hair, like a normal person's hair, or whether you. Yeah. Whether there's any dyes that you can get to die dogs. You're thinking of doing it yourself, are you? Well, yeah, it's white. So you've got a base color of white. Yeah, the dog's white. I think of it as a camera. Let's think of it. Let's think of it as a canvas. Yeah. So the underside, like, tigers are white underneath, aren't they? So I can leave the underneath. Yeah. And then just do the top orange. Yeah. And then do black stripes down it as the tiger because it's going on white. It's gonna show up quite good. That's what I thought. James, I like it. I don't know, if you get any lady callers, maybe they could comment on whether. I can't do that, can I? Because it's mystery or any other hour of the week. I now hand it over to Harvey's, um, dog dying dilemma. Oh, no. I mean, I appreciate that, but, you know where you say you don't use Google? I didn't want to get on the computer and start saying all. I'm not mucking you off, Harvey. I'm going to try and get you an answer to the question. I just not. I can't really invite female callers to ring in and pontificate upon how romantic the proposal is. Yeah, but if it goes wrong, James. Yeah, it doesn't matter. You've already. You've already split up. Yeah. James, thanks. Can't dump you twice, James. I'm already on the dumpo truck going to Dunstville, population. I know, ma, I'm sorry. I don't mean to make light of your plight. How are you going to get hold of the dog, though? Well, I can pop around. Her daughter should be in. And I could sort of persuade her daughter to lend you the dog. Yeah, that type of thing. So what are we doing? What is the mystery? Is the mystery here after James, is this a good idea or is the mystery. James, is it feasible that I could die my, my estranged girlfriend's dog? Like a tiger? Yeah. She's not estranged as such. I mean, we still talk and we are fond of each other, so it's not as if. All right, that wasn't the key word, really, in the question. Oh, right. Okay. But if it's a case of I can do it, I'd like to do something rather than just go and buy twelve rows. I don't upset anyone by saying this because they might just walk past a florist, go in there for their wives. You're a good man, you're a thoughtful fellow. I like that for you. And as I say, I've not had a lot of luck on Valentine's days and doing things like that before. What have you done in the past? Have you ever saw. Well, I say about it is 27 years ago, James. I know. If you remember. Remember the Rollo advert where they had the little boy and the little girl and they were eating a packet of Rolo and you give your last Rollo to your loved one? Yeah, exactly. Well, I was seeing a girl, yeah. And I was working away so I didn't get to see her all the time. I didn't realize where she was working over doing overtime. She was saving up money so she could take me out on Valentine's as a stake mill. Oh. And what I thought was, I'll give her a last Rollo. Love it. Which would be quite. Do you like the idea of that? I don't. Where I didn't get to see her, I posted it in the, in the Valentine's card and it was quite a mild February, so of course when she opened it, she then accused me of pooing in. What? She went all Peggy Mitchell on me and said, don't come around here again and don't ring me up. Yeah, well. And then since then I just, I've just sort of. I've gone down the route then of saying to people, oh, no, it's too, it's too commercialized. Yeah, well, I was just hedging you, but covering your. Well, it takes it all back. As I say, James, I don't want to upset anyone, but if you walk into a florist and say, oh, give us twelve roses and, you know, there you are, love, there's twelve roses. Bit unimaginative, Harvey. It's a bit unimaginable. Yes, I could imagine that you'd do something more for misses O'Brien. I'll take it you do, James. Well, I was going to get her a Rollo, mate, but I've gone right off that idea. Well, actually thinking on my feet, her dog's got a little stubby tail. A little stubby white tail. If I put an orange sock on it, it looked more like a tiger, wouldn't it? So what do you mean? You need black stripes on the orange sock as well? Yeah, I could do that with the. What do we need? Just because, I mean, you've taken us right up to the news. We want a dog. Someone with dog grooming experience. Yeah. Well, I didn't know whether it would be a vet or a hairdresser or maybe someone with, someone with a foot in both camps would be ideal. A vet who does a bit of hairdressing on the side or indeed a hairdresser with a veterinarian degree. I wouldn't worry about the sock yet. I'd worry about the main, the main trunk of the, of the, of the beast. What breed of dog is it? Do you know? I'm, no, I'm not really up on. But it's a really nice dog. Yeah. It's got a nice temperament. It's below knee high. It's like a Yorkshire terrier, but a bit bigger than a young. How furry is it? How hairy is it? Do you know what I'm thinking? I might need to give it a little sort of snip, a little trim up as well for the skin. No, but just like where it's got a few wispy bits here and there because that's not very Tiger II, is it? Yeah. Right. I, I'm going to open up the phone lines then, for anyone who marries together that veteran hairdressing skills. I'd appreciate it. Jon and I would like a sort of little sway on whether I should. Yeah. Well, if any female callers pop through the, the switchboard, I will ask them. All right. I don't want anyone ringing in, especially. Right. Okay. Is that fair? Thanks a lot, James. Hopefully it will work. Well, let's. Fingers crossed, Harvey. Fingers crossed. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. It's 1231 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 1235. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we are looking for answers. Actually, we've done that one. The shaving one was very successfully answered. How do they determine the strength of an animal's sense of smell? And staying on an animal related theme, can Harvey die his girlfriend. He didn't like me to say estranged his currently ex girlfriend's dog to look like a tiger. Nymco Ali is a name you may be familiar with. She's a very brave and passionate campaigner for change in the law regarding female genital mutilation. Hard to think of a more serious day job. She also, for reasons that she hasn't yet explained, has a picture on her Twitter feed of a dog that's been died to look like a tiger. So if you follow on Twitter, you'll see the last or one of the last retweets I've sent out is a picture of a dog a little bigger than Harvey's girlfriend's, but died to look like a tiger. If you're just tuning in, normally I'd make an attempt now to tell you what you've missed, but I think on this occasion I can't. Philip is in. Goffso. Philip. Question or answer? It's an answer, James, and I'm afraid I'm going to rain on your parade slightly from your applause for yourself. I think you mean. I think you mean you're going to try to rain on my parade. Well, wasp question. What are they for? The main purpose of wasps in the environment is they're actually a predator. They don't pollinate. They do pollinate. Do they? What do they pollinate? Flowers. They don't. They do. They're pure predators. They're not pure predators. The thorax is covered in thick black hairs that will pick up pollen from flowers and then transfer it to another flower. It's a very new point. Their main purpose is a new point. The question was, what are wasps for? I said they eat. They eat aphids and they pollinate flowers, especially crops. You were stating, on the whole, they actually most fine insects, as I recall what you said, actually pollinate. You can pick holes in that bit if you want, but that isn't what I got the round of applause for. What I got a round of applause for is what a wasps for. And I gave the lady, the lovely lady who was stung by a bee, two examples of what wasps were for. Yeah, but the main purpose of a wasp is predation. It's a byproduct of that. They've got hairs, but it's not. They're nowhere near as hairy as a bee. If you look at them under a microscope, they're hairy. They've got a hairy thorax, my friend, and that picks up pollen. Not to the degree. Yeah, no one's talking about degrees, Philip. If I were you, I'd retire hurt at this point. You've had a fair crack of the whip, but you've dropped it. No, I think you're still wrong. You can't think I'm wrong, because wasps do pollinate flowers. They don't actually go on self, they don't go on to flowers in a meaningful way that a bee would do. They would only be a meaningful way. They don't send them their last rolo, they go on two flowers. It's what they do. And especially if you see a sort of crops rather than garden flowers. Without all fly, almost all flying insects, the crops would be doomed. Not without wasps, I'm afraid. Only because they keep the predator. They keep. Hang on, someone's just. Someone's just sent me a lot of scientific papers proving that wasps pollinate flowers. There you go, then. Here's one from Brazil. The work is aimed to verify which wasps act as pollen vectors and can make potential pollination in the community of floral visitors of scenes terebinithius radii in Santa Cruz do Sul, Rio grande do Sul. On the flowers of one individual, 1619 insects were collected. 16 belong to vespidae, which, as you will know, is the genus of wasps. 55.7% of the total presented pollen grains attached to their exosqualetum, which I think is another word for thorax, confirming their pollinating habitat. Okay, on this occasion, better luck next time. David's in. Bo. David, question or answer? Hello, Jason. Carry on. Right, what is the newest, most professional or professional sport? Not the oldest professional sport. The newest professional sport. I mean. You mean, what is the most recent thing that people have made a living doing for the very first time? I actually think I know the answer to this. Oh, dear. Yeah, well, why are you sounding so disappointed? Oh. Oh, no. Mate might ring up with the answer, so. Which mate? I can't read. Disclose his name, but if you arrange this in advance. Is this setting me up for some sort of embarrassment? David? No, no, no. You know his name is Alan. Alan. Why would. Why can't you just ring him? No, I know he knows, so. I don't know he knows. He says that he knows, but I don't know. I don't really believe him because he's a bit of a misfit. So, you know. You're not related to a bloke called Harvey, are you, by any chance the one with the dog? You know what he should do? He should go and find out one of them fancy dress shops for pets and just sling it all Fargo suit on it and online, so on the. Listen, Harvey's more romantic than you. He's not interested in half measures. I don't. I'm confused. I'm confused now. Am I supposed to wait for Alan? Well, I wouldn't rely on waiting for Alan, because I know the arm. I think I know the answer. What do you think? Video games, esports, they're called. You can now. There are kids now making it. It's called an esport. There are now kids. If people pay to watch it. It's a sport. Isn't it? What I'm telling you it is. It's called esports. It's as much a sport as darts or bowls or something like that. People make a living out of those two. Yeah, but I think if you. Yeah, but you move your fingers and, you know, your thumbs or whatever. Yeah. You have never seen me play on the Nintendo Wii as all sorts of windmill style. In terms of what is the most new thing people get paid to do, and people now make a living doing that other people pay to watch. Yet the answer is video games. Oh, man. Unless Alan's got a better answer. Well, yeah. What's Alan's other ass? All right, then. Did you arrange this down the pub or something? I know. I'll tell you what. I don't ring in, answer question. You ring in, ten minutes later, Bob's your uncle, you get a round of applause. We was going to work this morning and I said we were sort of at the oldest sport. Yeah. And I thought the oldest sport was lacrosse. Canadians or something. Hundreds of years ago. Yeah. And he said it was golf. I said, well, it might be golf, but golf, you know. Well, I think it's video gaming, but I'll tell you what, I'm not going to take it. A round of applause. I'm going to wait to see what Alan has to say. Okay. It's 1242 and Sam is in Liverpool. Sam, question or answer? I have a question, please, James. Go on, mate. Well, I was wondering when someone's sort of got the attention of the public, they're in the limelight. But why is that? Why a limelight? Why is the light lime? Let's presume it's because of calcium carbonate, because lime is so bright white that that's what they called the brightest white light on the stage was known as the limelight. So it's to do with stage? Yeah, I presume so. It's just you're in the limelight. You're. You're in the prominent position on the stage. Yes. And then that's got picked up to mean you're just in a prominent position. So the limelight on a stage would be the. Where the actor who is the center of attention at that time is standing. And I presume it's called a limelight because it is very white and bright, like, um. Like lime, like chalk. Is that definitive? It's pretty impressive. It's not bad. You decide, then. You decide. Do we go definitive with that calcium light? Well, if you like, if you burn calcium, you get an incredible bright light, don't you like magnesium or something? Yeah, except calcium. So maybe it's different. I'll leave it on the board, then. Actually, I can tell you, take away any round. It's alright, mate. Some people think I'm a little bit too self regarding as it is, believe it or not. So I'm happy to park that one for Sam. Thank you, mate. Angela's in Kingston. Question or answer, Angela. Yes, in regards to can you dye your dog? It's not a fantastic phone line. This is quite important stuff. Sorry? You can dye your dog, but you can't use chemicals. Dye with the chemicals that you would dye your own hair with. Right. Generally vegetable dye based dyes. Where can you get those from? You would have to go to a grooming supplier. Are you in a pet shop at the moment? I'm in a grooming salon, yes. I thought I just heard a parrot in the background. Oh, no, we have a resident budgie. It's a budgie, is it? So you are currently grooming animals? Yes. Yes, I am. So it. Harvey. I mean, I've got two problems here. The first, I'm just worried about Harvey. The second, I think you're going to say, don't try it at home, Harvey. But then. But then you're in a grooming polish. So you would say that you're just trying to get a bit of business. No, because it's not something that I do myself. It's usually what they call creative grooming, which there are a couple of specialists around. So you've never done a tiger, then? I haven't done a tiger. I have dyed a dog a solid color, but it's usually done two different ways. It's not as simple as stick a bit of dye on in a few lines. It has to be divided, put on cream or conditioner, put onto the bits that you don't want to dye that particular colour, or it has to be stenciled on using. I think it's like a little compressor. You could dye the whole thing orange, though, and then just stick on black stripes, couldn't he? Well, he could do, I suppose, yeah. Are you, um. Forgive me, this is going to sound a little indelicate, but I promise you it's not going anywhere inappropriate. Are you courting at the moment, Angela? Maybe. How would you. How would you feel if you're. If you're. If you're. If you're affianced, if your beloved borrowed your dog for a while and brought it back looking like a tiger, I would not be impressed. But you're not from Essex. Well, no, that's true. So we've given Harvey the answer? Yes, mate, it's doable. Probably best to get a professional involved. But if you insist on cracking on alone, make sure you use vegetable dyes. Yes, yes, I definitely agree with that second bit. Is it a good idea? He wanted us to get some feminine input on that. And you are saying from Kingston? Probably not, pal. No, but then I'm from Kingston. So what's the most romantic thing anyone's ever done for you? Romantic holiday weekend in Paris. There you go. Harvey, mate, I'm just thinking it sounds better than turning someone's dog into a tiger. I think so. We're gonna have to catch up with him, find out what happened. You, however, have earned this. We are. This is a public service announcement. It is with great regret that James O'Brien must announce he's not going to solve many mysteries today. Or mystery hour. Just glancing at the clock. It's almost over, and I'm not even sure we've properly begun. But at least Harvey now knows a little bit more than he did at 12:00 today. It's 1240 612 51. Strange mystery out this week. Harvey, mate, the general consensus is you shouldn't do it just because you could. I've got to tell you, I've checked my inbox. There's a lot of very sort of concerned people. You've made a lot of new friends, Harvey, but if you really are planning on dying yourself, well, he's recently split up with his girlfriend. He thinks that a good Valentine's thing to do would be to dye her dog to look like a little miniature tiger. And you are almost unanimous in your opposition to this idea. So, Harvey, there you go. There, you've got it. If you want to press on, vegetable dye is the way forward. But the general feeling here is that you mustn't, you shouldn't. You really, really shouldn't. What other questions need answers? How do they gauge the strength of an animal's sense of smell? Limelight. What is the limelight? Why is it called the limelight? And what's the newest professional sport? Uh, Aaron is in. Carefully. Good Lord. I tell you what. If you can see how they spell carefully, Aaron, you. I don't know what you'd do. Probably take up Scrabble. Go on. What's, um. What's the answer? What have you got? Question or answer? Yes. Video games are the answer to that one. Video games? That's what I said. How can you prove it? Yeah, exactly. You were perfectly right. And I can back that up. There was a university in the States. I can't remember the name of the university off the top of my head. Yeah. But they were giving scholarships to gamers, basically, for their sports program, because it has become, you know, such a large thing. League of Legends, one of the video games. There was a big tournament last year, but sold out a stadium. Again, I can't remember which stadium it was. You and I have a similar grasp of detail, I think, but I've seen similar stories. I'm just going to check with Len, who's. Oh, we've got two Welshmen going toe to toe on this one lens in mumbles. Just Cardiff way. Len, question. You've got a different answer. Well, boy. Oh, yes. Hi, James. Yeah, it's. First of all, the professional sports on the e games have been going for years. Online poker, video games have been professional for years. It's ultimate Frisbee, mate. Ultimate Frisbee, yeah. It's only about a year or so old that it's been actually, teams are being paid and it's massive in America, but it's. It's fairly new here. It is the newest professional sport and I'm qualified because I've seen it on tv, so it must be true. What do you think, Aaron? He could be right there, actually. I mean. But then again, I mean, ultimate Frisbee's been around for ages as well, but people haven't been paid for it. There have been professionals. Donkey's years in the paper. No, he was on your side. Give him a break. And I just start kicking off. He was saying that. You're probably right. They have been watching things on video games for years. It's not quite the same. You don't sell tickets to watch a video poker tournament, do you? Yeah, but he's. Yes, he do, actually. But he's a valley's boy, man. Yeah, well, isn't it? All right, I don't want to get caught up in any sort of Welsh on welsh violence. I'm going to give Len the round of applause. Aaron. All right, well played, boys. It's 1254. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Our mystery out continues. We've done the newest sport, so we're just looking for limelight and an animal sense of smell. Linda is an actor. Linda, question or answer? Hi, James, I've got an answer for you. It's about the sense of smell. Dogs. All animals. All animals. Well, I'm guessing all animals, but I know in reference to dogs. Yes, how they gauge how good their sense of smell is is down to the number of scent receptors that they have in their nose. Oh, yeah. So you've got some dogs that have more scent receptors than other dogs, so therefore their scent of smell. And these are kind of like tracking dogs. Like a bloodhound? Yes. How do they count? They have that. I don't know. I hope it's not something horrible. Well, it's gonna be hard to do. How do you know it's a scent receptor? It sounds like a powerful word, but we sure it's real. Does it really mean anything? Right. Well, the reason how I came across all this is because I wanted to buy a beagle who have terrific sense of smell. They do. And everybody advised me against it. And so I got as many books out as I could to read about beagles before I got one. Yes. And that's what I learned about scent receptors and dogs. Did you get a beagle? I did, yes. I'm out walking him now. Why did everybody tell you to not get a beagle? It's quite a strong beagle, isn't it? Are you quite out of breath there, Linda? Yeah, I'm walking up a big hill. Excuses. I will stop for a second. Did you ask me? Can't remember. Yeah, but I have a beagle and I have a very strong sense of smell. The reason why they. Why did people tell you not to get a beagle? Because they're extremely mischievous dogs. Have you ever had it? Have you ever had your beagle died to look like a tiger? No. And I just have to say that if somebody came and died my dog, I would kill them. So I need you to say that again. I need you to say that again because Sheila Fogarty's just come into the studio. But could you. Could you add in between the bit? Can you say. And make you sound really cross, but don't just say died my dog died my dog like a tiger. You need to say, start again, please, Linda. If somebody died my dog like a tiger, I would kill them. Right, I want that on the adverts by Monday, Michael. All right, Linda. Round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Keith and Slough. Keith, question or answer? I'll tell you what, Keith. Somebody died my dog to look like a tiger. I'd probably kill them, too. Would you? Probably. Metaphorically speaking. It would keep the. The robbers away, though, wouldn't it? Very good point. I hadn't thought of that. Anyway, what question would you like to answer? Limelight? Carry on. Round of applause. For you. Absolutely correct. It was due back in the theatres back in the olden days. Yes. The lighting was done. I'm not a chemist. The lighting was done by the calcium and lime. And if you were in the limelight, then you were in the part of the stage that you were the most. The shiniest light was shining on you. Harvey Moon. Yeah, absolutely right. Qualifications, Keith? Right. A long, long, long time ago, my aunt was quite famous and used to read about her in the newspapers and it was always say that she was in the limelight. When I was 13 or 14, I said to my parents, mom, what does that mean, that she's in the limelight? And my parents didn't know. So I remember as a 1314 year old going down Acton library and looking it up. What a lovely answer. Who was your aunt? You know, I have to ask you that. Diana Dawes. Diana Dawes was your auntie? Yes. This has been the best mystery hour ever, hasn't it? Anything? We haven't actually solved any mystery. We've only solved about four. We've done animals. Oh, old Harvey's, tiger dog, limelight and shaving. That's about it. But this has probably been my favorite mystery hour ever. The late, the late. Tell us a bit about your aunt, Keith. Briefly. The late Diana Dawes. Well, didn't really get to know her and I met her once when my nan died, and my nan was her sister's sister, so I met her once and gave her some stuff because it was in my grand's attic, was stuff that her mother had, like embroidery and stuff that I guess they used to do in the twenties. So I did a little bit of a family tree on it. And, of course, that wasn't her real name. No. And, yeah, worked it through the family tree and she was a cousin. That's the best justification qualification for a mystery air answer we've ever had. Keith, I'm going to give you this. I'm James O'Brien. What a remarkable show, even though he says so himself. We'll be doing it again tomorrow morning from ten. Another remarkable show on the way now, but this time presented by Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much, James. I thought your hour with Bill Browder was fascinating, and particularly when he said he thinks the Russia Ukraine problem is the issue of our day.