How portable is DNA?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time. Nick's been in touch, he says. I think I heard about this recently, James. I'm fairly sure the answer is Viagra, but I know I'd find it very hard to take that every day. Thank you, Nick. Vedoom Tisch, you're right. The answer is that Viagra reportedly might may help stave off Alzheimer's by a factor of about 18%. And there's an awful lot of self appointed comedians out there today, I can tell you. Keith beat you to this gag by nanoseconds. But Ian in Bournemouth says that's a hard one. James, I don't know what the answer is. My personal favourite is, good luck running a double blind test on that one, says David in London. Ah, so that wasn't the placebo, then. All right, work it out. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction go. Well, it's like a carry on film at the moment, this program, the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial, it is fairly straightforward. And these days, of course, there is a glorious prize and the prize is a year's supply of. No, the prize is brand spanking new mystery hour board game. There's a booster pack coming later in the year, loads of people who ask me, and actually, I was reminded this weekend, last weekend at my gigging wolverhampton, that you can play the game without the board. You can play the game just with the cards. Quite a lot of people do that because the cards have got the game. Well, anyway, that's a fairly straightforward explanation. You don't actually need to use the board to keep the score. You can just tally up the cards like you would in a game of cheat or something like that. Or a game of Uno, actually. Anyway, anyway, anyway, anyway, if you make my favorite contribution of the day, you will win a mystery hour board game. The full terms and conditions for that are at LBC dot co dot UK dot. And if you want to find out more about the mystery hour ballgame, go to Mysteryhour dot co dot Uk. The way it works is this. If you're new to this, you're in for a bit of a treat. May sound a little ordinary, but I told you, didn't I? I was speaking to students yesterday from the global academy, which is one of the fantastic initiatives run by the people that also run this radio station. Something very almost feel like a vampire in a room full of enthusiastic and inquisitive young children. It's like you're sort of feeding on their energy. Really impressive young people. And teacher Catherine was superb as well, but one of them was a big fan of mystery hour and it occurred to me after the session that he may not have been born when we did the first mystery hour. That really stopped me in my tracks, actually. And of course it may well apply to you as well. You may have been here since the beginning and I was speaking to a lad yesterday who I don't think would have been born when we. But anyway, we digress. People ring in with questions, other people ring in with answers. That's it. But trust me, it's a lot more fun than that sounds. Ben's in Wickford. Ben, question or answer? I have a question for you. Please, Jane, carry on. What were electric ills called before electricity was discovered? Because surely they existed, but we weren't aware of electricity till. What was it? Benjamin Franklin? I don't know. Might have been Benjamin Franklin at least a couple of hundred years ago. Electric hills must have been around for thousands of years. Is that what they call. Is this a proper mystery? I mean, there'd be millions. There was loads of stuff that doesn't have a name. It was only really sort of taxonomy and Darwin, very sort of 18th, 19th century enthusiasm to start making lists of things and giving them all names. And it would have been in it. Would you still have known that? It was stunning thing it wouldn't have been called an eel? Is that what you're saying? I don't think it would have been called anything. I mean, it's. First of all, I think it's south american anyway, so it probably isn't even called an eel in South America. Do you see what I mean? You thought it was what I thought. Electric eels are in the nile. But they might. They might be. But it's a sa. Fresh water south american fish, the electric, what we call an electric eel. Electroph. Electrophorus. That sounds my dog. No, no, definitely not. Electrophorus fisheus is the technical term. Electrophorus is correct, actually. So what would it have been called? Well, did it have a name? What was a Conger eel called before we discovered the conger? But if you touch the conger eel, it's not going to do something to you that surely people had no awareness what came first. You know, the conger eel is named the Conger eel because they follow each other around the sea. Oh, I didn't know that. Every day is a school day. So what came first? The dance, the Conga. Or the name? The conger eel. Because it does the conger through the. Through the sea. Yeah, that's a fair point, surely the conger. I do. You can do it, too. That's not how I was expecting this to go. That's not gonna lie. That's not. I can't send you out into the world thinking that's true, Ben. That's not where the conger eel got its name. Oh, God, Nancy, you pulled the wild. The electric hill was known as something before it was the electric hill. I think you're probably right. But if anyone knows, I shall give you the money myself. I don't think we shouldn't have corrected that, should we, mate? We should have just let that go and then waited. We'd be sitting somewhere. We'd be sitting somewhere with someone and say, do you know how the congregal got its name? And someone would say, yeah, just because all the congregate all follow each other around the sea. I was going to come home and tell my wife. That would have been embarrassing. By tea time. By tea time, it would be halfway around. That'd be viral. Exactly. That'd be all over Twitter. What if it is true? Why? If I've just made it up. But it is actually the real reason why I call. No one's going to know whether we're coming or going. It'll be like watching Fox News. There must be a fish person. There must be a fish that knows the answer to the conger eel and the electric eel. He can only answer the electric eel. Thank you for that. But I'd be amazed if anyone does, or indeed if there is an answer to it. I don't know. We shall find out. Nine minutes after twelve is the time Mark's in Bromley. Mark, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, mate. Okay. I've reached an age now where a lot of my friends are having various bits of iron mongering added to their bodies, such as hip replacements and gold teeth and things like that. What I want to know is, when they sadly pass on and they're cremated, what happens to those various bits of metal that will undoubtedly be left in the crematorium? It's a bit morbid, isn't it? It's very, very morbid indeed. But it's been troubling me. Yeah, I see why, I can see the gold teeth. Well, yeah, it's got. Yeah, there's got to be a. You know, someone's making a quick times are hard, are they, Mark? Well, not that I'm not that desperate yet. Yeah. I mean, crikey, I've got a vague something somewhat. I think. I think someone told me they'd kept a knee or a hip. I could be completely making it keep them. But what happens if they just, you know, they just gather? Do they end up in someone's urn on a mantelpiece somewhere? You wouldn't be able to fit a hip in an urn, would you? I don't know. Quite a big bit. It's quite a big bit. What happens to the stuff that doesn't. Doesn't burn? Yeah, the stuff that doesn't burn. Okay, thank you, Mark. I mean, crikey, it's all human life and indeed water life. What's the phrase? Water, water, life. Aqua. Marine. All marine life, all human life and indeed all marine life is here today. Thank you. I thought so, too. Peter's in Wigan. Peter. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Why are the numbers on a dartboard in the order that they're in? And who decided that? It is actually quite a careful calculation about the highest number has. The one is next to the 20, isn't it? Yeah. Is the two next to the 19? I don't think it is. What's it next to? I think it's near as close to three. Three. The 19 is next to the three, the two is next to the 17. I'm not going to get this right, I don't think, but it is to make it. The higher the one you're going for, the less if you miss by a bit, the lower the score will be. Do you see what I mean? So if you're going for 18, it's going to be one and four, isn't it, on either side. So by the time you get down to something like 14, there's not any really low numbers left. So 14 sits between nine and eleven and eleven and eight. Or eleven and nine. I can't quite see the board in my mind's eye. So that's the answer, broadly speaking. But that's not the mathematical equation you're looking, looking for, is it? No. All right, mate. You could have said yes. So 17 and 19 for the three. That kind of proves my point. The three. So you missed the three. If you're aiming for the three, you're going to hit a big one and if you're aiming for a big one, you're going to hit a small one. But I don't know how they finally calculate. I shall find out for you, Peter. Okay. They might be in the board game, that one. I'm sure it's come up before, but if I can't remember the answer, then it never happened. 1212 is the time. Simon's in Southampton. Simon, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. If the source of a river is a trickle of a spring. Yeah? And the mouth of the river where it joins the sea is like, massive. Yeah. Where does all the water come from? Because surely. Well, because a trickle is not providing that volume of water, is it? Well, it depends. If it never ends. True. It's always running, isn't it? Never ending trick. It's always running, isn't it? Yeah, but the. The trickle creates a channel through erosion, so you need more water to fill it. So where's the water coming from? The sky, mate. The sky. Well, you could be right. I am right, because water will always find its way to the lowest point, won't it? It will always cut. And it will cut a channel there and into that lowest point, all the rainwater will. Where once it may have just sort of absorbed blanket like, into the earth, now it's concentrated into a channel and. And then it starts expanding again and the river gets bigger and bigger. Yeah. But when it. You only notice that when it's like a massive storm, where else would the water come from? If I'm wrong, where else would the water come from? To which you think of a hose pipe? I am, James. I often am. I am. Right. If you. If you start running a hose pipe at the top of a hill. Yeah? When that water gets to the bottom of the hill. Yeah. Providing the hose. Providing you run the hose constantly, you're going to have exactly the same volume of water at the bottom as you do at the top. Yeah. Right. So at some point, there has to be other sources or other. There is the bloody sky. All the rain, all the water. All the. All the water. All the water. All the water in that area, all the other rivers, they're all heading. They're all heading down to the bottomist river. Okay? The lowest watercourse will be the biggest. Think of all the tributaries of the Thames, the Brent and all the other ones. Yeah, all right. I kind of get what you're saying. I'm not taking a round of applause. I'm not having an unsatisfied customer. I'm gonna leave. Thank you, James. No, you're very welcome, Simon. The source. Where does all the other water come from if it doesn't? What you mentioned hose pipes. Come back a minute. You told me to think of a hose pipe. Has he gone? He's gone. Don't worry. Don't ring him back. It's not that good. I have. I've got one of those hose pipes on the rotor. You know, the ones that. Simon, you told me to think of a hose pipe. I can't get it out of my head now. The thing goes. And I've had builders in, right? And they borrowed my hose pipe and what they've done, they've detached the. I've got to explain this, right. You know the thing. What's it called? The thing? No, not the host pipe, Keith. The thing that you wrap it around. It's like it's got on a thing. It's a thing thing, like a spool. A spool is a good word. Like a big spool. You know the ones I mean, like you. So you can roll it in when it's finished like that. But the spool has another hose coming out of it, doesn't it? So the spool goes to the tap and then inside the spool there is another passage, or of wart, which goes into the hose. And they've detached the hose from the spool so that they could just use it without the spool. I don't know why. I wish they'd asked. And I can't get it back on for love or much. It's like I need to have tiny, tiny little hands. I need to borrow Donald Trump to fix my hose pipe. I cannot get. Is there a knack to it? This is not the best mystery hour question you're ever going to hear, but it's my show and my rules. Is that what do you do if you can't get your hose attached to your spool again after a builder has removed it and tried to cover up the fact by respooling the hose, so that when I turned the hose on the other day, it just went everywhere from the thing. I like to think the pictures are better on the radio, but I acknowledge there are exceptions to that. Rule 20 after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. What was an electric eel called before we discovered electricity? I don't write the questions, I just ask them what happens to the things that don't burn after a cremation? Why is the dartboard arranged as it is numerically? There's a ray Liotta waiting there for Luke litler if he rings in. And I think this is obvious, Simon, but stand now. Where does all the water in a river come from, given that the source of the river is usually just a tiny little spring or something. That's an odd one, I thought. I haven't even noticed it today. James writes, howard in hever, I love you. I listen to your show every day and I have read all of your books, but your indigestion today is really disturbing. Is that a typo? I haven't been gurgling, have I, Keith? More than usual today. Have you noticed I've got a new smoothie on the go? I got a sort of made a new smoothie, got some kefir in it, but I haven't. Have you noticed any gurgling today? I don't. I don't think it's been any worse than usual, Howard. It might be your radio. You might need to adjust your radio, mate. Or your headphones might have a bit of water in the speaker or something. Ian's on the Isle of dogs, although it says here the Isle of Dog. No, it is the isle of Dog sometimes. Definitely plural. Unless there's been some sort of Brexit down there and it's now the Isle of Dog. I don't know. Right. Question or answer, Ian. It's an answer, James. Carry on, sir. The. What happens to metal when you're cremated? Yes, you are cremated. You come out of the cremator as a large husk, which then goes into a machine called from memory, the cremulator, which rolls you around, breaks you down into the ashes. Okay. They then run a magnet across said ashes and remove all the bits of metal, which then go to. Metal reclaimers, are melted down and reused. Good Lord. Unless you picked a box when you. When you're arranging a funeral which says you want these things back, in which case you'll have them back. Qualifications used to work as a funeral director. And how often did people request to have the things like a metal hit returned in the years I did it during the pandemic and I never had anyone wanted them back. Right, so there it is. And then it just goes to a metal reclamation plant. Melted down, reused, and goes into the next lucky recipient. Well, you live and learn. Round of applause, Ian, thank you very much. No, thank you very much. And we've corrected your record there to reflect the fact that the Isle of dogs is definitely plural. James is in Chetnol in Dorset. James, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Okay. When you like to bonfire. I know ecologically you're not going to do that now, but sometimes you have to burn some bits of wood. Yes, of course, even on a still day, the smoke always seems to follow you around when you're stoking it, are you going to shoot me down in flames? Get it? I just wondered whether there was an answer to that. Are you sure? I mean, isn't it just very smoky? Generally, it's not specifically following you around. I talked to friends about it and they go, yeah, always if it seems to follow you around. It's just I wonder whether there was a car. You're not capable of standing anywhere else except where you're standing. So if you were standing anywhere else that was equally near to the fire, you would be just as smoky. But you think that it's just where you are because it's the only place in which you're standing, surely? No, no, because you can see the plume of smoke coming towards you. Well, it is with me. No, you can't. Honestly, it's really weird, but like, you're a smoke magnet. It's just when you're stoking it and there's smoke coming out, you know, it's small, it comes towards you. It always seems to come towards you. Even when you walk round it, it just seems to come towards you. I know what you're saying, that it could be all round it, but it's not all rounded. You say that. I know, that's my experience. All right, well, I mean, first of all, the parameters of the question need to be true. But if they are, okay, the question is not why does smoke get in your eyes? The question is why does smoke follow you around a bonfire after you've lit it? Yeah, I know that. I've been agonizing about asking you this for about two months because I thought, I'm glad you did. It's such a stupid question. But what if it's not, eh? How good are you gonna feel? You're gonna feel fantastic and I'm gonna be the one with egg on my face. Oh, smoke in my eyes. Thank you, James. If you know the answer to that, you know what to do. Roy's in Honiton. Roy, question or answer? It's question. James, how are you doing today? Very well. The question is, I just recently come back from visiting my son in the States. Oh, yeah? Whereabouts? I realised that in Tampa, in Florida. Oh, lovely. Yeah, weather was lovely. It was a beautiful time. I realized that all denominations over there, from one to 100, money wise, are all the same size. Yes. So my question is, how do blind people know what they're paying with and what the amounts are? I did shut my eyes and have a little play with the notes, but it didn't make any difference. Yeah, I think. And I don't think I'll take the answer for this. I don't. I think that it is simply a question of ordering them with the help of a sighted person so that, you know, in your pocket what's at the front and what's in the back of the. Of the money. Clear. I've got a feeling that some countries may have small indentations on. I don't know why. I've got a feeling. The rupee, the indian rupee may have small indentations on it, but our banknotes don't and american banknotes certainly don't. But I think that is. It's a slightly odd answer, but in a way, once you've eliminated the impossible, whatever you are left with, however unlikely, must be the truth. I think people just rely on the goodwill of whoever it is that they're transacting with and also the help of people who. Hang on. No, I'll put it on the board. I'll put it on the board, because there is. I think there's a little bit more to it with the new tenor. I think we've had this before, but you can tell Roy that my memory is not 2020. Maybe needed. Vincrow. Yeah, that might do. That might do the trick. Thank you. Rachel's in Coventry. Rachel questioner on question. Please carry on. And how come when you breathe, when you exhale, say, you say, ha, like h aa, it comes out warmer? But when you blow, or say, like, who h to blow, it's cooler. I know this one. This is. We're having a bit of a. Greatest hits today. If you've played the ball game lately, then you'll be able to answer almost every question we've had. I bought it for my dad for Christmas last year. Have you? Because I know this is in that slight wind chill factor, so it's not necessarily cold, it's the fact that when it hits your skin, it is. I didn't know if it was the. Sort of, like, blowing out. You're cooling it down because the speed. No, it's about what happens when it hits your skin, isn't it? And it's withdrawing the warmth from your skin. I've got no idea. Because it's got. No. I'm telling you, because it's concentrated. Because it's concentrated. I hate it. When I nearly swore then, Rachel, it'd be all your fault. I can't. I can't quite remember because I'm not very good at this kind of stuff. It's physics, probably. Is it that it's to do with the wind chill factor and the. And the. And the. What's happening to your skin. It's what's happening to your skin more than what's coming out of your mouth. Okay. You're not interested, are you, in my. I am interested. I just don't quite. I don't quite understand that explanation, though. Fine, I'll put it on the board. So, cool versus hot air someone. This is pathetic. I must have done that 20 times over the years. And it's. There comes a point where you wonder whether mystery hour is just for our amusement rather than our education. If you can't remember any of the answers. Thank you. Rachel Menelik is in Woolwich. Menelik. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So I wanted to know where the. The original place to turn a dog friend. It's a very bad phone line, and you've robbed me of the opportunity to make my own Viagra joke. But the question, I think, is when did. When did dogs become known as man's best friend? Hello? Can you hear me? Yes, I can, but that's what you're asking. When did we start calling dogs man's best friend? Yes. Because when I think about it in terms of animals, unfortunately, in terms of how useful they've been to humanity. Well, yeah, I mean, I guess you don't really keep a horse as a pet. Although, of course, the banshees of inner shearing, a rather splendid film, gives an exception to that rule. But, yeah, I did you know the horse. I know dogs were working when we first domesticated them, but latterly, they have largely been kept for comfort and company as opposed to the purpose that they serve. You don't. You don't have a pet horse. Don't lie to me. No one's got a pet horse. Even if you think it's a pet. You don't ride your dog around the garden, do you? In a way that you do. A horse. Thank you. Why? Why is a dog. I mean, who else? Not a cat, obviously. A man might be a cat's best friend, but a cat ain't no man's best friend. That's a certain. What else would you put. It's not a lot of competition, really, but where does it come from? The phrase man's best friend? I like that. Zero. 345-606-0973 there's quite a lot to get through there. I've missed a couple of names off the list, but I'll deal with that. Keith and I will consult in the. In the news bulletin. Should we go to Minnie or should we go to Amelia? What do you think? So let's get the news out of the way. Amelia Cox is here now with your news headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 it's 33 minutes after twelve. What were electric eels called before we discovered electricity? Why are the numbers on a dartsport arranged in the way that they are? Where does all the water in a river come from? Given that the source of the river is usually a sort of little spring at the top of a hill, why does smoke seem to follow you around when you light or stoke a bonfire? If indeed it does, that's James's assertion. How do partially sighted or blind people, particularly in America, that's the crucial element of this question, where all banknotes seem to be the same? How do they distinguish between banknotes? Why does air coming out of your mouth and directed at your hand feel cold when you purse your lips and blow, but feel warm when you open your mouth widely and say, ah, that's from Rachel and Menelik wants to know when dogs first became known as man's best friend. There's quite a lot going on there, isn't there? Minnie is in Cranbrook. Minnie, question or answer? Well, I've got actually an answer and a question because you know the only. If you cleared it with the producer. Oh, no, I haven't. No, I've got a question then. I just know that the ancient Egyptians. Don't blow it, Minnie, or you will be. You will be. You will be. You'll be cancelled. You'll be cancelled. If you have. You've heard about cancelled culture, this is where it gets real. Get on with the question. Get on with the question. Okay, sorry about that. That's okay. Thunder of the Nile. Okay, so DNA. Wherever we go, we leave DNA. Okay, so through our sweat, our, you know, shedding skin. Yes, shedding skin. Exactly, exactly. Sputum. We leave. We leave DNA everywhere. Snot. Exactly. Um, yeah. Sweats, oils, carry on. Fingerprints. Yeah. So enjoy your lunch. We excrete DNA everywhere. Okay, so someone, if some, we go to a place, we leave our DNA there. Can someone then go to that place and that DNA is transferred to them? They touch the same thing you've touched, or they sit on the same thing you sit, or they brush up against something that you've brushed, they've got your DNA on them. Can they then transfer it to a different place and then put it, like they then touch something or brush against something there. Your DNA is in a place you've never been. What if a crime text place in that. That place, like. Do you know what I mean? I do, yeah. Minnie. Yeah? What are you planning? Oh, no, no, no. It's just. That was a perfectly natural laugh that you did there, Minnie, wasn't it? Oh, yes. That's a very innocent sounding laugh that we're in. I'm not worried about. What have you done, then? What have you done? It's not. What are you planning? What have you done? What have you done? Go on, tell me. No one's listening. No, no. It actually comes from a crime show I saw on television where someone got in trouble and they didn't do the crime, but their DNA was at the scene. Your honor. And I just want to know, like, the police DNA swab, especially if it's a serious crime and even a relative. Yeah, of course you can, of course you can, yes. Yeah, even a relative that has been. I can pick up a hair. I mean, just think of a hair. I can pick up one of your hairs and drop it at the scene of the crime. That where I've murdered some. No, no, I'm talking like an object. I know, you're just talking about a smaller thing than a hair. Anything that contains your DNA is mobile and portable. Well, how long does it last? Well, that's not what you asked. Also, what are you planning? I'm not planning. Why do you need to know how long it lasts? It's a worry. Yeah, you're telling me it's a worry. We might have to keep a record of this call for special branch. No, I'm not planning any crime. I'm just saying I have a thing about it I think is my DNA somewhere? Yes, yes, definitely. I have read more crime fiction than you have. I don't really watch the true crime stuff on the telly, but yes, definitely. If you think of. Think of a little piece of skin or a bit of saliva or whatever it is, just think of it as if you'd thought of a hair before you rang in. You probably wouldn't have rung in, would you? Because a hair so obviously can be transferred from one place to the other. Obviously, but after a while, that hair is going to be your second not allowed. Bit of the question. You didn't ask about it wearing off, nothing about. No, you're not. Fingerprints and DNA. Yeah, I know. Hair is DNA. Hair is the DNA in the hair that would allow them to. Yes, I know, but it's the same. It's the same. Right. There is DNA in your hair that they would use to establish that you had been somewhere, but they can't establish it conclusively because someone, you could have your hair could have stuck to someone's coat. So that's how. I mean, they also find. Look, the obvious answer to your question, actually, which I should have realized sooner, is how the heck do you think they catch people for murders 30 years after they happened? Answer, because they find DNA on the clothes that matches the murderer, even though it's now in a lab and has been for 30 years. So the DNA has moved from the crime scene to the lab. See, that has to be meticulously kept. Yes, all of that. But it's still your question was, is it mobile? And the answer is yes. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Round of applause for me, in fact, two, because that was like pulling teeth, which also can be moved from the scene of a crime to elsewhere quite easily. Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Afternoon, James. The answer to your questions about rivers and contribution of the water that gets into it. Yes. So there's kind of two elements to this, really. One is the contribution of groundwater, one is the contribution of the broader catchment. So on the groundwater side of things, certainly in southeast England, you have permeable rocks like chalk. Chalk is a really important element in this because it is a source of where water is held and it can be kept there for months through the summer. So then the spring line of the impermeable rocks, the water then starts being emitted back into the river system all through the year. That's a slightly different in the case of, say, the Lake District, where you've got impermeable rocks. But the sheer amount of water that you get because of the high rainfall totals means that there's always water contributing to those catchments anyway. And you've got glacial deposits which help to kind of keep the lakes themselves in place. So that's part of it, that's called the base flow element of our river systems. Obviously, in summer months, when it becomes very dry, we do sometimes see rivers starting to dry out. You do. So the other element of this is the broader catchment itself. So even something like the Thames isn't just one river watercourse. There are hundreds, potentially, of other smaller tributaries which like the Brent and the fleet. Yes. Tyburn is the Tyburna River, I think. So the kennet, the cold, all of that. So they all contribute to the broader Thames catchment. So when you get heavy rain which usually falls on the higher ground. You tend to find all those small contributing rivers all then coalesce to form a much bigger river in the center which then runs out towards the sea and that's the water cycle. So as you say, it rains. But the major answer is it comes from the sky and some of it comes from the ground. But the stuff in the ground was once in the sky. Yeah, it's held up by in soil as well, so it's all good. I mean it was. I felt we were quite generous allowing Simon's question to stand because, you know, the source of his confusion seemed to be more of a him thing than a we thing, didn't it? But what are reminders of your qualifications, Andy? I work for the Environment Agency. I'm actually on duty at the moment as a flood warning duty officer. What happens if there's a bloody flood and you're on the bloody radio? Well, yeah, I know. I'm probably going to be issuing flood alerts later today, actually. Really? Whereabouts? Don't tell us, don't tell us. You might get into trouble. What if there's not a flood? I cover the mole in south London. Right. And you think there's going to be a flood? No, not, not warning. So make your floody mind up just to look what we call a lower level of message that we send out when we expect our bank flow. Well, good luck. Keep them peeled. Thank you. Round of applause for Andy, please. Thanks, James. Thank you, Andy. Mister, our veteran there. We should have a premier league of mystery, our contributors, shouldn't we? Andy would be very much in it. Ruth in Toronto. Ruth, question or answer? It's an answer, sir, good to talk to you. I am blind, so that's my qualification. But there's a lot of blind people, so I don't get a radiola. The money in the United States is not only all the same size, but it's all the same color. So if a person with visual impairment could see color, that doesn't help them either. Whereas in Canada, our money is all the same size, but it's a different color. And we have braille on our money, which the american blind people lament because they do not. So here what they sometimes do is they'll fold the money in a certain way, the ones or the fives or the tens in certain ways to keep it in their pockets so they know what's what. But in order to. But then you have to trust the person who's given it to you to tell you that they are honest in what they're giving you now, there is a little machine that they can get, which is slightly bigger than the dollar bill and about an inch thick, and they can put it in and it will push a button and it'll identify the money. And believe it or not, that machine is made by the canadian government for the american money system. And then the other thing, though, which is much handier now, is there's apps on the phone. There's an app called be my eyes, which every visually impaired blind person should have, because it does a lot more than that. And so there's different apps, but it's really. It's rather cumbersome and unpleasant to have to be pulling your phone out and checking every bill when you're standing at the cash in the. But better than being ripped off or handing over a hundred for a 90 cent purchase and getting $0.10 back. Absolutely. For certain. But that's the answer, Bruce. That is perfect. And you've already established your credentials, so please accept. Yes, I have logged through 60 years of being blind. Well, there you go. A round of applause, at least, for Ruth. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Hey, take care. We'll talk again, I hope. Twelve coming up to quarter two. I'll squeeze in one more John's. And I gotta tell you, judging by my inbox, which I can't consult on air, I can't read it out because it's not allowed. I think James's question about the smoke was a good question, actually. I hope we have time for an answer. John's in Newry in Northern Ireland. John, question or answer? Question. James. Yes. The question is, it sounds a bit callous compared when your man's talking about dogs. Go on. A man's best friend. But anyway, when you get a mad dog. Right, and you attack somebody. Yeah. And the police come and shoot them or whatever. Yeah. Why do they always say the dog was destroyed? I'm not killed. Yeah. The dog was killed at the scene. Yeah. If you don't. I mean, if you drop pain over gloss paint over a wedding dress that's destroyed, or you fire a missile, a building that's destroyed. Destroyed. Destroy. A dog at the scene. The dogs were destroyed at the scene. You're absolutely right. I don't. I have no idea. Just always seems. They always seem to use it in connection with dogs. You know, if a polar bear attacked somebody, some scientist or something to shoot at. Right. Yeah. But a dog, we don't know that, John. I can't. No, I. Seriously, I think if, you know, if a lion escaped from a zoo and then got, I think they might say on the news the lion was destroyed. I don't know. Have I? But when's the last time you heard of a lion escaping from the zoo? Thankfully, never. That's not temp fate. There's enough bad stuff in the world going on without us accidentally jinxing an escape lion. Okay. I like it. I may be too late in the day, but if anybody listening knows the answer. In fact, I think we could probably remove all questions now from the board, focus exclusively on answers, and try and rattle through what remains in the time that is left to us. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. It is 1246 mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1249. Lots of answers coming in via text. I do wish I could share them with you, but I can't. Them's the rules. Yarik is in Orpington. Yarik, question or answer? It's answered. James, first of all, very nice to be on your show. I love your programs. You're very kind. Well, a lovely thing to say. Let's go. It's true. So, regarding the air, if you blow the air through your purse lips, you increasing its speed velocity, and in that way, you decreasing its temperature on the hands, is there physics laws regarding the gas flow? When you're blowing through your open mouth, you're then blowing the air at much, much lower speed. And the air comes out from your lungs, which is heated up by circulating blood in there. And because your extremities, your hands, your feet, are, on average, slightly colder than the inside of your body. Then you perceive the temperature which is coming from within your body is slightly warmer. So that's why we are blowing on our hands through the open mouth when we want to warm up. It's got nothing to do with taking the heat out of your hand? No, no, no. Sure. To do with the. Yeah, I'm sure. I miss. To do with the temperature of the air. One time it's decreased by the quick flow through the purse lips, and then on the other time, when you open. Okay. What are your qualifications? I'm emergency medicine doctor. So, human physiology. Yeah. No, I'm not arguing with you about this. No, no, I'm not. No, I'm not. No, I don't. I never argue unless it's absolutely necessary. Eric, you know this. I don't even argue when it is. I shall give you a round of applause. There we go. For Yarec, please. Thank you kindly. Thank you kindly. And we'll speak again. I look forward to it. Steve's in Chester. Steve, question or answer? It's answer. James, about bonfires. Yes. Right. So if you think about a bonfire in the middle of a field with nothing around it on a perfectly still day. Yeah. As it burns, it's drawing in cold air at the bottom, it's heating stuff up and the products of combustion are going up vertically because of warm air rising. If you're going to stand near it, that. Imagine the circle pointing inwards of all air coming from every direction. You're now interfering with a portion of that and you're creating a vortex. You're an air dam being created. You're an air dam. Yeah, exactly that. So in perfectly still air, it does happen. So you would actually. The smoke would direct towards you. Yeah. You can stand somewhere else. It'll go, hang on a minute. And it will follow you. See, I said to James, imagine if this turns out to be scientifically interesting, you are going to feel fantastic. And there is. There is right now, thanks to you feeling fantastic, Steve. So if you do nothing else of value today, you've done that. Okay. Given that gift qualifications today, Thursdays. Well, two. Two qualifications. One, I asked my dad this at bonfire night about 1978, and he puzzled and went, I'm going to work this out. And he sat down with a piece of paper and worked out and I asked my physics teach, physics teacher a couple of years later, and then about three years ago, I was going offshore and you have to do some safety training, part of which is firefighting. And the fireman, I asked him the same question, he goes, yeah, and confirmed it. And he was a fireman, James. So you've triple checked it? I've triple checked it. Possibly the most extraordinary collection of qualifications we've ever had on mystery. I'll tell you what, the youth of today don't go into that sort of detail. Have a round of applause, Steve. Beautifully played, beautifully played. Emma's in Ipswich. Emma, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Can I just say, I'm having a little bit of a moment. I phone up presenters. I can't believe I'm speaking to my hero. Hello, James, I'm a bit nervous. Oh, it's only me. It's only you. It's the darts to the dartboard. Yes. Brian Gamlin in the 1890s, came up with the configuration of the numbers. Are you sure it wasn't the Earl of Dartmouth? No, darling, no. No. Okay. Ryan Gamlin. Yep. In the 1890s. Sounds like quite a modern. I didn't think they had people called Ryan in the 19th century. No, Brian. Brian. That's more like Brian. Brian. Okay, go on. 1890s. Brian. Gambling. Yeah. 1890s. He came up with it and I think there's over two. It's like over 2 million other configurations that you could come up with. But his, just from the way he did it, ended up being the best. It's to increase accuracy, so you can't get a lucky shot. So you can't just fluke a win. So it is to increase accuracy. So if you miss a high number by a bit, you'll hit a low number and if you miss a low number by a bit, you'll hit a high number. But do we know the actual calculation? So the one is next to the 20 but the two is not next to the 19, for example. No, he honestly, he just, as I understand, he just came up with it and there are so many other ways, like I said, that people have come up with two other 2 million other configurations it could be, but his just has worked the best. But he died before he could paint it. Oh, how terrible. Could you patent in 1903? Yeah, you probably could patent qualifications. It was. It was a chat with. I was in a village pub. It was Christmas. You know, it's a lot of football, a lot of darts, sitting there with my dog. And it came up. And it came up. Drinky poo's conversation. Round of applause for Emma, please. Very nice, though. Thank you. Beautifully done. Alex is in horn church. Question or answer, Alex? I've got an answer and I'm really excited because this is going to be my fifth clap. I've had three for an answer and one for a question. Let's not answer. Let's not count any chickens, Alex. Let's not count any chickens before they hatch. Go on. Okay, then. So the answer for the dogs being destroyed is because dogs are classed as chattel and a chattel is looking at Google is an intangible personal property. So you're not going to say a dog was killed legally because. Classed as chattel. So that's why they say destroyed, because a dog is chattel. And you're going to ask me my qualifications for this? I am. What are your qualifications for this? Because I had the very first ever dog custody battle, which I know you referred to back in 2006 when I was listening to your show once before, and when I took my ex to court and they were talking about it, that's when I found out that a dog is classed as chattel. So that's why I think that's why they don't say it was killed in legal terms, because a dog isn't classed as a dating back to. Oddly dating back to the times when a dog would be of value because of the service it provided to the owner rather than the company and the comfort. So that's why I think they don't call it killed. I personally would say that dogs were killed because, you know, I love. I love dogs and. But no, that's why they say people are killed. Animals are destroyed, but the dogs are destroyed because they're. I like that qualification. Whether or not it's relevant to the answer you've provided or not doesn't really matter. Do I get my clap? I think you do, yeah. Look at that. Five. Five and counting. Take care, Alex. 1256 is the time Peter is in Twicken. And Peter. Question or answer? It's an answer. I've done this one. You sort of have. Go on, then. Peter Kirkham is a proper copper. Or was a proper copper. How many proper coppers can a proper copper cop? If a proper copper could cop coppers? Carry on, Peter. Yeah, you're right. DNA is mobile and when we leave DNA at a scene, it's in the cells of our body. So the hair is in the follicle at the end of the hair or skin cells or whatever, or in blood or any other fluid. And yes, it can be moved around and that is a real problem for proper coppers because there's sort of degrees of contamination with different issues. The first is that somebody brings DNA into the scene, their own DNA, by walking through the scene after it's happened. Yeah, exactly. It's. Why do you have to put on your special shoes like you're at the swimming pool? Exactly. Exactly. Right. All of that clothing and overshoes and the packaging of things and gloves, they're all important to avoid contamination. Perfect. That can distract the inquiry, but even worse, it's secondary. You can move stuff around within a scene because it lands on you, it take it somewhere else. Unwittingly, you put it down onto another item and even worse still, defense lawyers dream mate. Somebody else's DNA. You saw a spit on the pavement, someone walks through it and next thing your DNA has been walked into the murder scene of the house next door. It's not as easy as really, really difficult. Qualifications. Used to be an SIO senior investigating officer and I got a degree in chemistry and biochemistry. Come here a minute. Did. Did Minnie sound a bit dodgy to you when she asked that question? She did. I've got a note of her name and I've recorded the call. Thank you very much. Round of applause for Peter, please. I'm warning you, Minnie, whatever you've got planned, think again. You've got Peter Kirkham on your case. Last word. Richard is in Breffriere in France. Question or answer in three words? Answer. Go on. Electric eels. Yep. Yep. There's several types. They were all called knife back in the day. Well done. Qualifications, 3400 years ago. Qualifications. Qualifications. I was given. I was giving book on the subject to read as a punishment. There we go. Well played. Fantastic work. That's it for another week. If you've missed that, I'm giving the box of games, the box of joy and delights to Andy, the environment Agency, who I thought already had one, but apparently doesn't, and he's provided us with so much illumination over the years. You alright there, Sheil? Is everything okay? You know, LBC, all of that app, pause, rewind. Download free globalplayer.com for LBC. Swalbrick now, Sheila Fogarty.