Why can't we get a more accurate due date for babies?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. If you know how this works, then book your place on the switchboard. Now, the final mystery hour of 2018. If you don't know how it works, I will explain, but probably in a rather roundabout way that goes off several tangents and indulges in occasional self aggrandizement. For example, yesterday I was stumbling through Holland park, and the first time ever I've remembered a question for mystery at this from my own life. And as I was about to frame it for you, I realized it's the definition of a question I wouldn't allow on for being boring. It was not only boring, it was about motoring. And it was actually about black cabs specifically. And I was about to start asking you that when I've spent, what, ten years berating anyone who dares to ring in with a road related question or something that's specific to a tiny sector of the society, like the black cabs. So I guess I will never know the answer to that question that I was going to ask about that thing. You, however, can ask your question by dialing zero 345-606-0973 and within the parameters of obvious dullness and stone cold repetition, you can ask pretty much anything you want. A who, a why, a where, a what, a when, a whither, a wherefore. Even the occasional whence. Why did we do that? Where does that come from? I saw this thing and I don't understand it. Explain it. I mean, mystery Hour is a celebration of illumination, elucidation, enlightenment. The idea is that somebody listening to your question will know the answer. That's why you are categorically forbidden from looking anything up. But the point is that we can pretty much find out almost anything these days at the click of a mouse. But a bit like cash in the last hour. I'm still a little bit nostalgic for the pre technological revolution, when knowledge was everything. Knowledge is still powerful, and it will be for a while yet, until you've got some sort of microchip in your brain that allows you to undertake Google searches in lieu of memory. Knowledge is still powerful. People kind enough to sometimes ask me why I never lose arguments. It's mostly memory. It's just being able to remember stuff, or knowing where it is, that's all. And also, it's really good to know stuff. You can recite a little poem, even if it's a cure for insomnia, by reciting John Keats to sleep in your mind as you struggle to nod off. It's just cool to know stuff. And we are raising children who perhaps underestimate the coolness of knowing stuff, because they can operate perfectly well in the modern world without knowing anything except how to operate a computer or a smartphone. So that's how it works. I think that's it. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Gareth is in Wigan. Gareth. Question or answer? Good morning, James. Happy Christmas. It's a question. Carry on, mate. And the same to you. It's. I saw something yesterday where it gave a fact which only one in 20 babies in the UK are born on their due date. Oh, yeah. And it got me thinking, why do we accept that one in twenties? It's a big industry. Yeah, it's ballpark. But my question is, really, will we or can we ever get a more accurate prediction for a due date than that, or do we just accept it? And is it possible to get a more accurate due date? Well, they do it differently in France already. They calculate it as a different number of. So what they have to do is estimate the moment of conception, don't they, by looking at how far gone they think you are, and then they extrapolate from that how long the average gestation period is. And I think in France they work from a different average. So you'd get a different due date from a french hospital and an english hospital. Okay, but I know that doesn't answer your question. It doesn't, no, but I'm just showing off knowledge, you see. It's some knowledge. Which one is it? Somewhere in between the two is one. I just want to frame the question a bit, a bit more specifically, so that someone can ring in and answer it quite easily. Okay. So would it be. Would it be possible? Well, then you'd have to just conclude that if it was possible, they'd have done it. Okay. Wouldn't you or not? I don't know. When was. When was that? When was it? When was it? Why are due dates so inaccurate? Yeah, let's do that. And then if I might do a supplementary. You? Yeah. When the person rings in to tell us why they're so inaccurate, we will find out through my deft questioning whether or not there is a better way of doing it. Yeah. Yeah. Happy with that. Nice work, Gareth. Take it easy. Nine minutes after twelve. Oh. Three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three. Why are due dates for babies so wildly inaccurate with only one in 20 babies arriving on the given date? Jeremy's in Cobham. Jeremy, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. How do they make cheese? Different strengths? So when you go into supermarket, you can buy, as I did yesterday, you can buy cheddar for a mile all the way up to extra mature. So I'm guessing there's a clear in the word mature, but I don't know. But when I was a student, I had a job in the dairy making cheese. Did you? Yeah, I did. I had to scrape the mold off it. My job. And they didn't seem to do anything different. It was just that particular cheese. And that dairy is all one strength. So I was wondering how, you know, like, they make different strengths of cheese. As you just spotted yourself, you may have accidentally stumbled across the answer, but it is. They just leave it somewhere. You know what happens to it when they leave it? It's still not enough to say it's older. Then we need to know why it's stronger if it's older. Because it means that something chemical continues to happen up until a certain point. It doesn't get any stronger while it's in your fridge, does it? Exactly. I don't think it. I don't know whether mature is just a red herring or whether the. It's. You know, I like. I like the really fancy stuff from. From the. Where you've actually got the salt grains in it, where you actually stumble across an actual little grain of salt in the cheese. How they put the blue into Stilton. I did. They. They stick it in with a. With a stick? No, they put copper wire through it. Wire. Copper wire. I didn't know that. I didn't know how. I mean, why did you not pursue a career in cheese? But I was only 16. I had to get up. 04:00 in the morning. Oh, fair enough. And then one day they, as a joke, the full time workers poured stale milk into my shoes and they stank and I had to throw them away. A walk home in those shoes. So I gave up. Went to university instead. I don't blame you, to be honest. One of the finest moments ever in the history of this program. Back when only eleven people and my mum listened to it as we did a whole hour on whether or not there was any food on the planet that couldn't be improved by the addition of cheese. Those were the days, Jeremy. Thank you. How did they get different strengths of cheddar? Something funny happened the other day. I was just thinking then about gradations of uniqueness. So I referenced an Alan Partridge gag about two weeks ago and someone said, it's very unique. James and I quote it as a sort of child prodigy on early Alan Partridge in the radio days, who said, one cannot have gradations of uniqueness. And then we were talking about Raheem Sterling's sterling work regarding racism, and Stan Collymore rang in and referenced that thing to sort of prove that he'd been listening earlier, the gradations of uniqueness. And then, weirdly, I forgot to tell you, the next day, I was recording something with David Schneider, the comedian and the writer of Alan Partridge and the death of Stalin and lots of other things. Big collaborator with Amando Yannucci, and he was in that sketch. He was the father of the prodigy. So I had that really weird thing that I imagine David's used to, but I'm not where I had to remind him about something that he'd worked on himself. And he said, no, I don't think that was me. I said, it was. You were the dad. He goes, oh, my God, you're absolutely right. One cannot have gradations of uniqueness, but one can have gradations of cheddar. So we'd like to know how they are achieved. Howard is in Sydenham. Howard, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Happy Christmas to you. Same to you. Same to you. Same to you, of course. Thank you. Right, the question is something you actually raised a little earlier, and I did do a bit of googling, but there's not much information. How do the police track down the user of the drone? That's not unanswerable. Quite. Well, yeah. Yeah, it is. Of course it is. Otherwise they'd be wasting their time trying to. They must be doing something, mustn't they? Well, on Google, it says something like they leave traces in the ecosphere or something, but that kind of. No, you're allowed to google it before you ask the question. I'm sorry, I'm just dealing with some staffing issues. Can you talk among yourself for a moment? Yeah. You're allowed to google it before you ask a question. Obviously, you can't google it if you're going to answer a question. He's right. Thank you, Howard. Not looking for a new job in the new year, are you, by any chance? Well, maybe. See if we can squeeze you in. Thank you, Howard. I shall try to find out. How did the police investigate these rogue drones? Quite a few of you are wondering whether a caller we had when Donald Trump was due to visit Britain may have had something to do that's. Oh, sorry, yes. You remember the fellow who had a dwode and he was going to fly it into the Donald Trump cartoon because he was so quasi. He made the book. That fella, actually, the one that I said, what about that footage of Donald Trump doing that thing? He goes, fake news. I said, no, but it's that you can actually see it. And I got a message of an academic the other day saying, they're using that as a case study in delusion, in political delusion, how propaganda can persuade people to argue that the sky is green and that black is white. So, well done. That fell it with the duone that made you famous. 1214 is the time. Ben's in Madrid. Ben, question or answer? Sorry, Ben, in your eyes. Hello, mate. You're right. Hello. Sorry. Sorry. I'm in Madrid. My son wants to know, is a pepper a fruit or a vegetable? He's nine, and my daughter's fire, she says it's a vegetable. He says it's a fruit and I'm the. Do you want to speak to him quickly? No, he's all right. Leave him alone. No, that's fine. He doesn't want to talk to some boring old. Get on the radio. Ben. Give him a break. I'm here. Are you. Oh, you're. You're here. Can you hear me? Yes, I can, loud and clear. Are you on holiday in Madrid or do you live there? No, I live here. Oh, okay, cool. But they're on. They're on holiday here with me. Great. The kids have come to visit and you're listening to mystery out together. That puts a warm glow in my. Of course we are. We love you. Bless you, mate. No, I know he is, but give him my. Tell him from me, his dad's a wally and he's cool. All right? You got some parenting to do. Is a pepper a fruit or a vegetable? We need to find out for Ben's kids. All right, you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. There was no sort of little after shock on that one. Doug's in Wandsworth. Doug, question or answer? Question. James was. Yeah, well, and an answer, actually. No. I mean, you can only do a question. You know how it works. I can only do a question. Yeah, of course you can. Well, I've got a solution to the gap week thing. No. You know, I mean, that's a really good one. Well, let's not fall out about this reason why that we. You have to speak to a producer before you can come on out. Otherwise there'd be chaos. I can be like, Brexit, mate, with no deal fair enough. Okay, carry on. Well, I'm. I'm sensing a bit of rayleoticism here because my friend who's the scientist has been given a Rayleigh otter. I've never won one, but I only have a question. I don't have the math. Well, you're not going to get a Rayleigh otter for a question, mate. Well, what if. It's a really, really excellent question. Yeah, all right. Yeah, you can have one if it's a really, really excellent question. Okay. How about this? Go on. We, as humans, our voices deepen. Well, certainly men, our voices break at about, what, 14 ish? Does the same happen to animals? Specifically domestic animals? Dogs and cats. Do their voices break? That's the question you think would get a ray Liotta? Yeah. And I'll tell you why. Because I have a Maine coon cat, right, which is siberian forest cat and allegedly an american raccoon. Yeah. Yeah. So it's supposed to be a mean cat. And he is a mean cat. He's the size of small of an average dog and really heavy to pick up. But when he. When we had him done that is spayed, emasculated. Yeah. He kept his high meow as a kitten. So now he's a huge male cat and he meows like a kitten. Like a baby. Yeah. I understand why you're asking the question. Got a castrated cat at home. And I recognize entirely what you described, but I'm just genuinely. I mean, I'm fascinated by the idea that you thought this would be worthy of a Rayleigh Otter. How often have you listened to this? Do their voices change? I will put the question on the board. Do animals or other mammals have voices that break like humans do? But I just want to go back to your incredible levels of confidence. How often do you listen to the program? Every single time. James, don't humiliate. I'm not humiliating you, Doug. I'm just genuinely intrigued because I think that if we could somehow bottle the optimism that you brought to the program today when you thought you'd get a Rayleigh otter for asking whether cats voices break. If we could bottle that optimism, we could get Brexit, mate. We could somehow get unicorns by Christmas. Everything could all be all right. You get a Ray Liotta if you are. I don't know if we're talking about toasters and you invented the toaster, okay, but I. What did you make at his for? What did you make get his for? I beg your pardon? Sorry, I didn't get that. Did you say your friend got a rally otter, but you hadn't got. Yeah, he got a Rayleigh. What did he get his for? What did he get his for? Well, answering something on molecular biology. Exactly. And he was a molecular biologist and a very small number of people in the planet would have had the qualifications to make the molecular biology interlude. You rang up and said, did my cat's voice break? Okay, well, you got all the Brexit stuff and everybody getting irate about that. I thought, I just get it. You're a star. Give him a round of applause for a great question. Frankly, you're lucky you got that, pal. 21 minutes after twelve, Andy's in Bristol. Question or answer, Andy? It's an answer. Carry on. So the question, the first question of the show was, how do we make due dates more accurate? I'm coming at this from the perspective of the pediatrician, so I can't comment on the obstetric side. So all the things that make a woman go into labor. But what I will say is that I think it's actually unfair that at least in western societies, we tell women to expect their baby on the 40 week mark. So, as the caller said, that is a very small proportion of babies, or 5% of babies that are born on their expected due date. Myself, my colleagues and my practice would count a term baby. So a baby born at term between 37 weeks and 42 weeks, which is actually a five week sort of. It's a reasonably large chunk of time, and in France they go later, I think, or it's not 40 weeks, it's somewhere within that five week. I don't know about that, I'm afraid. But what I'm trying to do is provide reassurance to mums who are pregnant or who are going to plan to be pregnant, who think that delivering their baby two or three weeks early is a really big deal, because chances are that baby, from the perspective of lungs, heart and brain and gut. So which are all the issues that premature babies actually do run into trouble with at 37 weeks, it should be absolutely fine. So when I ask mums, you know, when was your baby born? As part of seeing them at a later time in their childhood, they tell me three weeks early. That's still on time from my point of view. Yeah, no, I like that. And I mean, it is a bit of an odd one, isn't it, in the context of the potential problems, the potential problems it could cause. And it's never been redressed, so there's no way of doing it more accurately because 37 weeks to 42 weeks is a big window and you could have a massive window. And be more accurate, you could say you're due between, you know, the beginning of June and the middle of too long. I think we should be preparing women for delivering their baby between 37 weeks and 42 weeks. And if you're ready for at the drop of a hat to go to hospital with the bag ready and everything good to go, it doesn't really matter what time of day or when, within that period your baby is born. Actually. Great work. Round of applause for Doctor Andy. Your qualifications are that you're a pediatrician, right? Yep. Yeah. Well that's pretty strong. Yeah. I'm a lot closer to a Rayleigh otter than the last lad. 23 minutes after twelve is the time Dave's in Derby. Dave, question or answer? Oh, are you festive? Greetings James. And to you David. How are you? I've got a festive question for you young man. Well, bring it on. Where does the tradition of pulling Christmas crackers come from? Oh, I like that. I know, I love it too. That's a very strong. We did do a Christmas mystery hour a couple of years ago and we've almost certainly answered this but I can't remember so I love it. We do it again. There we are. I'm sharing the wealth. Have a lovely Christmas. Same to you, mate. Look after Port Talbot for Christmas which is where my, my mate where his garage painted. So I'm going to see a bank see tomorrow. Are you really are the real deal. My sister lived with Ian for ten years, she splits up with him and he gets his garage painted by Banksy. So this is. Some people won't be fully aware of what's actually going on, which I grant you is a fairly common occurrence on this program. But. But it has been revealed in the news today that Banksy has struck at a petrol station in portal. But no, it's not, it's his brick garage. A brick garage. And why did he pick Ian? Exactly? And why did my sister leave him? Would she try and get back now that he's got a Banksy on his garage wall? She's married Neil now, wouldn't she? Oh crikey, Neil's going to be in for a ride old roasting this Christmas, isn't he? Well, you pulled. Yeah, well, either way, well played. Good work. 25 minutes after twelve. Top man, Dave. Safe journey for you. That's a bona fide story. That's amazing. It's a world exclusive. We just spoke to the brother of the former partner of the bloke whose garage just got decorated by Banksy. I'm going home now. That's it. My career has peaked. Lee's in Ashford. I'll talk to you first. Question or answer, Lee. It's a question, James. Yes. The question is, at what temperature would a lone emperor, a penguin, freeze to death in the Antarctic? Obviously, they never do something. I don't think they ever do. But there must be. Because they've got, like, magic feet. But there must be. Even with magic feet, there must be a. I mean, you couldn't put them. I don't think they've ever frozen to death at a natural temperature. But you could stick them in an artificially created temperature, couldn't you? Well, I think the temperature gets down to -40 at times. Yeah. And they don't freeze to death. And they don't freeze to death, so they must freeze to death at some temperature. Yeah, but who's going to have found out, mate? What sort of a monster would have done that experiment? I don't know. Some evil, sort of a sick, disgusting, despicable stain upon our species would have worked out how cold a penguin has to be before it freezes. I'll try and get you an answer, mate. All right, thank you. Thank you. 26 minutes after twelve is the time. If you know, Banksy, I've got a lovely garden wall. It could do some lovely work on my garden wall. I could chip it off and set up that fund to explain to people about why we should be more careful about big data. Michael is in Caterham. Question or answer, Michael? Question. Carry on. How did they program the first computer without a computer? It was, um. It was cards with holes in them. Really? Yeah. If you build a computer, obviously it's very primitive. Surely you needed another computer. No, the first computer you did. What you need to do is think about the word literally computer, which essentially was a glorified calculator. So what the first computer did was really big sums that you wouldn't have been able to do in your head. And the way that the numbers were put into the computation device was by way of perforated cards. So how did they move that to. No, no, no, I've answered your question. Round of applause for me. You have to ring that next year if you want any further information. Alfie is in Dublin. Alfie, question or answer? James. Hello. Thank you so much for having me on. Yes, so welcome, Alfie, it's grand to hear from you. Question or answer? It's been a great year and this is one of the highest achievements of the year you're over the line. Thank you so much. Are you your guy? I know who you are. You're Gabrielle's Alfie. We spoke to you last week. One of Gabrielle's questions, and now I have a burning mouth. Here we go, two for two. She's not with me. My lucky charm is not here today. Sandra, I love. Did she tell you that my oldest was a huge fan of hers? Oh, yes. He didn't turn around. I'm going to turn her on to your stuff, Alfie as well. But at the moment, it was Gabrielle when I got a dm off Gabrielle, else, she was over the moon. Oh, she was indeed. We were both over the moon when we were on Missiera last week. Do you know what else I got for her? Do you know what else I got for her? This is what a great dad I am, mate. I got. I got my mate, my mate, James McVeigh, who's just got out the jungle, has been working with Kathryn McGrath, who you probably know, do you, as part of the irish music. Yeah. So. So, James McVeigh got. Got Catherine to send a lovely message to my oldest on via phone. No way. Straight up. Nice. Straight up. Seriously nice. Anyway, where were we from? Gabrielle? Pretty soon, I'm sure. Anyway, so here's a question for the year that's in it. Yes, okay, go. How do I say, what was the first use of the word Brexit? Or who invented it? Oh, that's strong. Do you know? I don't know that. You'd think I would, wouldn't you? Now, you must know that. I have no idea, mate. No idea. Well, someone on ours. When did the word Brexit first appear? I mean, if they stuck it in the dictionary, they should probably have come to some sort of. Alfie, mate, that's a cracking question. And look after yourself, love to Gabrielle as well. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we will just run through quickly all the questions still in weight of answers. Who coined the word Brexit? And when I've done that, how cold would a penguin have to be to freeze to death? Someone deserves, Rick deserves. A little round of applause here. If the guy calls in who actually did freeze a penguin to death, would you give him a ray Liotta? I would, yeah. But I'd be worried about Peter. You know, the people for the ethical treatment of animals would be boycotting the studio in yet another one of their desperate attention seeking exercises. But I don't know. If he does ring him. We'll jump off that bridge when we come to it. Who invented Christmas crackers on the due dates? How do they make different strengths of cheddar? How do the police investigate the drones? Is a pepper a fruit or a vegetable? I think I know that. But we need to find out for Ben's kids in Madrid on their holidays and do animals voices break zero 345-606-0973 if you know the answer to any of these, you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I think Nina makes a valid point. She says killing a lonely penguin through gradual freezing is never going to replace the expression boiling a frog despite actually being more possible. And if you were wondering about my desperate attempts to establish some sort of youthful credibility with my last caller from Dublin, Alfie, you should know that he is part of the popular beat combo Hudson Taylor and Gabrielle Applin. I presume it's his partner. Either they are. They're very good friends because they rang in on different ends of the same extension last week to ask. Ask a question. Extremely talented young people, both. 1234 is the time. I think we'll probably do some answers. Michael's in Hackney. Michael, question or answer? Answer. Bring it on. Right, so the Christmas cracker question. I actually got this as a little info sheet instead of a joke in a cracker last year at Christmas. Well, I'm glad for us, I mean, because we're going to find out and stuff, but. So I can't remember the exact date, but I think it was the 18 hundreds. And I believe it was a gentleman called Tom Smith. And I think the first ones were made for royalty and there was like sweets and I think it was bon bon, stuff like that inside. Oh, and a paper crown. Yeah. But you can't just say, I think it came from royalty. No, no, it's a gift for royalty by Tom Smith. Oh, okay. Who was Tom Smith? Like a merchant? A cracker maker. Cracker maker. Because crackers already existed. If he was already a cracker maker. No, he invented the crackers. Right. But what was he before that? Was he a merchant or. I mean, did he make. This was on a piece of paper that should have had a really rubbish joke on inside a cracker. Right. Last year we got really good jokes. I don't know where my mother in law got the crackers, but the jokes were next level. They were absolutely brilliant. They were crackers. Sorry. So Thomas Smith was his name. Tom Smith. Tom Smith. And it was probably the Victoria, you'd imagine it would be Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, because they kind of invented the modern Christmas or Prince Albert did. And the idea was. The only flaw in your theater in your answer. Well, is that I need to know whether or not he invented a cracker and took it to the queen, or whether he was already knocking out loads of crackers. And then it was a marketing exercise when he gave it to the queen and everything went bonkers. I don't know how hot they were on their pr in the. That's what I mean. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. And we haven't got a year. Where does the tradition come from? And I guess we all follow the steps. It was invented by a bloke called Tom Smith. I'm giving you a round of applause, but there's room. If others want to put more flesh upon the bones of Michael's answer, then they're free to do so. Good man. 1236 is the time. We've only got tomorrow. We've only done one round robin this year. We've only got tomorrow now. So if you've got around Robin, give us a. Give us a ring tomorrow and read out the most boring bits. Frank's in East Grinstead. Frank, question or answer? Hello, James, pleasure to speak with you. An answer about the peppers. Carry on, Frank, you'll probably know this anyway, it's obvious when you know basically the difference between fruit and vegetables. Fruit contain pips, seeds or even stones. Whether you look at lemon that has pips in apples, tomatoes have seeds and obviously peppers. Cucumber. Dozens. Yeah, yeah. They actually do have little seeds. When you actually dissect a cucumber, they'll have. So they're a fruit. So a cucumber is actually a fruit? Yes, indeed. It is actually a fruit of cucumber is. You could google it about butternut squash. Butternut squash. I'm not an expert on everything. I hardly ever cook. I do quite a lot of cooking. But it's got a lot of seeds in it, hasn't it? Yeah. Again. Yeah. That would make it a. I don't think there's anything as actually. I don't think a vegetable. I don't think vegetable is a scientific term. I think because even a banana is a. I think officially a seed or pod might raise the question of a banana. They do come up a lot on this program, usually when talking to brexiters who have nothing else to offer. Excellent. The other thing, most vegetables, a lot of their, if you like produce is actually developed underground, like the good old potato. Carrots, beetroots. Again, they don't have seeds naturally. What you eat actually comes from within the earth itself. You actually have to dig them up. So that basically is as far as I can take it. I only know this because my father is a keen gardener. I'm just trying to think, what is a stone cold vegetable? Because a potato is a seed. Well, no, you have to seed your potato, but the seeds, what would be an actual vegetable? So a chili pepper is a fruit. Chili peppers, again, classes fruit because they have the little stones inside which you have to scrape out. You're right. I can't remember whether it was Ben's son or Ben's daughter who was arguing that a pepper was a fruit, but one of them was and one of them's lost. And your qualifications are horticulture? Yeah, well, I say adore gardening. I remember my father cutting open cutting or dissecting a tomato about 40 years ago and saying that this is a fruit because. And showed me all the seeds. And I love gardening as well. No, I get that. Okay. That's all I can claim, my knowledge. It's on my list, mate. Things to do when I retire. Round of applause. Yeah, definitely. Good man. It's 1239. Francis is in Dartford. Francis, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Is the answer for the cheese question that you asked? Oh, yes. How do we make different strengths of cheddar? Right. The way it's done is that milk is put into a large fat and a starter culture is then added to it. It's then churned for about 12 hours, and then the cheese is scooped off of it and put into an area that is made into large blocks. Yes. Then after, say, I think it's about three months after it's gone a bit hard. That would be your mild cheese? Yes. After six months, you would have it as your mature cheese, and after a year, you would have it as your extra mature cheese. What's happening during that period, do we know? You've got all the cultures inside the cheese, you're getting all the air bubbles and all the salts and it's all mixing together and it's making a lovely, lovely, gorgeous cheese. Yeah. I mean, that's a great advertising slogan, but it's not very good science. Francis, is it fermenting? I mean, what word would we use? I know it's maturing, but chemically it would be fermented inside. The cultures that were inside are actually creaming up and making it into the cheese that we have today and the reason that it actually stops maturing once it's taken out of a room, that's a constant temperature. Once you take it out of that, all the cultures then stop. And that's how you get your mild cheese. And once you put it in your fridge, it will no longer mature. That's why you don't get your cheeses any stronger once they've been put in the fridge. Oh, so when it's. When it's maturing, it's at room temperature or. That's right, yeah. This is. What are your qualifications? I used to be a cheese specialist for a well known supermarket. You did what? You'd be the buyer and the taster in there? I would be the lady that would sell you the cheese, let you taste the cheese also, um, with the blue cheeses. So you were quite. You were quite. You were you in charge of the cheese counter? Yes. So you were quite a big cheese? Yes. Yes, I was sorry that you didn't even. You shouldn't even have laughed politely at that one. You can tell it's nearly break up time, can't you? I know. Also with the blue cheese, a gentleman earlier said that. Copper wire. Copper wire. That's not the case. Oh, my days anymore. Once the cheese is made, you've got your round cheese and it's all white. They then put in a penicillium with it, and then as they spike the edges of it, which doesn't have to be copper, the air gets into the cheese and that's how you get the blue vein. Oh, gosh. Do you miss it? Absolutely, yeah, I can see. I mean, I get an enthusiasm for something. It's infectious, isn't it? And I love you. Yeah, I really like. And your little salt bubbles. You were saying that you like the salt. What? That is when they're making the cheddar or whatever cheese it is, they do actually put salt in with the cultures to make it work. You get little air pockets and then little air pockets, they've got nowhere to go. So it builds up to be like a little salt. And you normally get a little bit away in there as well. And that's how you get that gorgeous taste, that little crunchy bit. That's right, yeah. My favorite bit. What's the best cheese you've ever eaten? Oh, crikey. It's got be a Stilton, a proper English Stilton, a really mature one. I had a cave aged compt that had come from France. Beautiful. And I think I got it at the cheese counter in Selfridges. And I put it in my mouth, Francis. Yeah. And it was like taking drugs how I imagined. How I imagined drugs would be. It was like being drunk. Flavors filled my mouth in a way that I. Quite incredible. I might do that next year. What day should we make it? What shall I do? I do an 11:00 hour. And what's the best cheese you've ever eaten? What do you think? Oh, crikey. If you do have Sealton or any blue cheese, mix it with a bit of honey, just drizzle a tiny bit of honey on it and that brings out all the flavors of all the blue mold. Honey is generally an overrated, underrated addition to a cheese board, actually. Yeah. You should try. I'm with you, Francis. I'm completely with you. And you know what else I quite like, given that Christmas is just around the corner, I do. I quite like to put a bit of cheddar or Stilton, actually, on my fruitcake. On my Christmas cake. A bit of cheese. Yeah. Winter goes well with that. Northern. I think that my mum introduced me to that. But I think it's something we should spread up and down these islands. Yeah, we should. Carry on, Francis. Massive round of applause for Francis, please. Great work. Yasik is in Birmingham. Yasik. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. About the first computer being programmed, so we're having a stewards inquiry. Sorry, we're questioning the answer that was already given. Are we? Well, I was. Because it was me that gave that answer, which means it's almost certainly in need of questions, because I was calling, as you must have answered. Well, apparently you have a different answer and you already sound more qualified than I am. So how did they program the first computer? Well, it wasn't the kind of computer that you're thinking about, because it was Babbage's computation machine. Yes. Which was all just mechanical cogs and switches. So dials. So they changed the dials around to do a sum and then press the button and get the result. Yeah. And it's all based on, like, the way that the cogs and things interact with each other, which actually maps pretty nicely onto, like, a modern instruction set in a computer. Good grief. Really? Yep. He was a g. What was the name of the woman that worked with him who didn't? Is it Lovelace? Ada Lovelace. And there's someone who deserves to be much more widely known than she currently is. Qualifications? Yasik. BSE in computer science. That'll do. So you get a round of applause, but also you get. What do I get? I mean, I have to eat humble pie, or do I have mine? Why does he get two? Oh, he gets mine as well. Yeah. Give him two rounds of applause, then. Crikey. It's going to be a great Christmas for you, Jessic. Or possibly it's already peaked. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. How cold would a penguin have to be before it froze to death? I need to clarify something on the point about the little crunchy bits and delicious cheddar cheese. It's calcium lactate, not sodium chloride. So it's not salt in the sense of sodium chloride, but I don't know whether calcium lactate is a salt. I don't know. I thought Francis was nudging me in the right direction on that one, but I'm happy to clarify. How will the police track down rogue drone users and do animals voices break? I think that's pretty much it. And the first. Oh, we really need this. The first who coined the word Brexit. A few people are suggesting Dennis McShane, actually. We shall find out whether or not that is true. Before all of that, vieri is here. Vieri is better known to the world at large as Doctor dog, one of the world's leading animal behaviorists. So I presume you're here to talk about either the voice breaking or the. Or the penguin freezing. Vieri. Which one is it? No, no, it's. Hi. Hi, James. It's the voice breaking carry on. Actually, by the way, the guy who asked that, he said he has a Maine coon. Yes, and I just wanted to set the record straight. A Maine coon is not a cross between a cat and a raccoon, because that's biologically impossible. Is that what he said? Did he say it was a cross between a cat and a raccoon? Yeah, it's a myth. So lots of Maine Coon owners out there, if they think that they've got a cross between a raccoon. I can't believe I let that pass unchallenged, because even I would have spluttered in disbelief at the idea that his cat was crossed with a raccoon. Yeah, no, it's not. All right, I'm glad we cleared that up. Anyway, carry on. I'm sure it's a lovely cat. I'm sure I am. But it's not half raccoon. Carry on. Okay. Voices breaking. Well, there are no scientific studies on this, but, yeah, voices do change. And the reason why they change is because the animals grow. Same with us. There is a difference between male dogs and female dogs. Female dogs will tend to sound not much different from, you know, when they were adolescent, when they're adults. But male dogs do go through puberty in a much stronger way. And because they do, they basically behave like, you know, young male humans and. And have voice breaking and they actually get started by it. Startled by it or their own voice breaking. High pitch. Yeah, yeah. It's suddenly really low and they get startled by it. So, yes, it does happen because of the change of the volume of the lungs of the larynx. Yeah. Love it. Just dogs or any other mammals. I mean, I know dogs are your field of speciality, so you may not know, well, all mammals except the ones underwater, but, yeah, love it. Qualifications. We know this, but I. Give yourself an advert. I'm, as you can hear, my doctor said it for me. I'm Doctor Dog. He's Doctor dog. Look him up. He knows everything. Bairi. Thank you so much. Marty's in Belfast. Marty. Question or answer? It's an answer, James, to do with coining of the phrase Brexit. What have we got? It was a guy by the name of Peter Wilding and it was only a couple of weeks ago, he was on one of the news programs. I can't remember if it was ITV, BBC or sky. And his biggest fear is that this is going to be his epitaph. So he coined the phrase Brexit. And who is he? Peter Wilding. Yeah. Wow. And what does he. What does he do? I don't know. I just remember watching the program. It was all in the background. I think he's been on LBC in the past, actually. I presume he's some sort of economist or something. You've already got your round of applause. You're over the line. You remembered his name. Peter Wilding coined the phrase Brexit and he's. I mean, that would be a sad little. Unless the whole thing gets called off, in which case it'd be a great thing to have on your cv. But if it actually happened. Well, that's very true. Qualifications? Watching ten. Yeah, absolutely. Watching news programs. And a very merry Christmas to you and yours. And to you, Marty. Seriously, you take it easy, but accept this with. With bows on. Good man. Peter Wildling. What does he do? Can we find out? Chairman of british influence and he came up with the phrase brexit. Love that. And that's. That's regarded as widely accepted. Gah. We should invent a word or perhaps a game involving arrows and a cork board. See? Yeah, Nathan's in Portsmouth. Question or answer, Nathan? Answer James on your. When do penguins freeze to death? Carry on. So penguins could freeze to death at -45 right. But if they're with a bunch of their mates, they huddle together and they take turns on being on the outside of the pack. And those inside the huddle, obviously, the temperature is greater because they're all huddled together. So even if the temperature goes to, say, -45 they would all survive because they're huddled together and take turns on the outside of the pack, taking the brunt of the storm or the cold weather. And how cold would it have to be for the whole pack to freeze to death? Well, don't know that to go to minus, say, 55 for prolonged periods, perhaps. Yeah, but on his own, he could freeze to death if he was on his own, at a temperature that he would otherwise survive at. If he's with his master. And we're going for -45 degrees. -45 to 47. You're good. Qualifications. I know a load of useless information and also watch a lot of David Attenborough programs and I saw that a couple of three months and you've got a magpie memory. It just. The stuff sticks. Stuff. Useless stuff sticks. Important stuff in one ear and out the other. Tell me about it. It's. I mean, it's all right for me because I invented mystery hour as a way of making up for the fact that the silly stuff sticks and the important stuff disappears out of the other ear. But it's a curse, Nathan, isn't it? A curse, mate, that I was the one that asked about the beans on toast. What? Beans are beans on toast a few months back. Remember that one? Yeah, of course I do. Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course. I do not bore lottie. I thought they were borlotti, but they were haricot. Beans, beans, beans, but. Right, well, that's a brilliant work. A round of applause for Nathan. Thank you. Thank you. And of course, penguins can freeze to death. You get a rogue penguin who's kind of lost. Lost touch with the pack. What's he going to stay alive, however cold it gets. Marcio is in Madeira. Marcio. Question or answer? Hi. It's a question. Carry on. It's a bit late, but hopefully we can get something. How do ants always manage to find food in the middle of nowhere? I have no idea. And it keeps happening. So you have, like, I don't know, just a lost. A rogue cracker or a cookie somewhere in the middle of a. They must have amazing do they have a sense of smell or. I don't know. Do you think everything smells that much? Well, I mean, you could. I mean, can't think of it in human terms, but you're right. On you. An ant will detect, or an army of ants will detect a tiny crumb of something under a sofa, miles away from anywhere else. How do ants find food? Yeah, I really like that question. I can't believe that you've had to ring all the way from Madeira to ask that question. True. It's true. I'm enjoying my EU membership and actually, I'm from here, so I'm actually here for Christmas, but, yeah, I'm enjoying my EU membership because I'm calling you. I'm not paying. Yeah, well, for now, it's free. Yes, that's exactly that. Well, that's how we should have done it. If there's another campaign, that's how we'll play it. Yeah, of course, it's a great idea to have to pay more, to make phone calls and indeed to pay money to even go on holiday in the first place. Well, it doesn't matter. I have to pay for a visa to go to America. Yeah, but if you voted for Brexit, you have to explain why paying to go on holiday is better than not paying to go on holiday. All the rest is gravy. Ah, and speaking of gravy, little splash of Madeira in your gravy on Christmas day goes. It works wonders. Oh, man. It's astonishing segues. 1255 is the time I've run out of answers and I've still got some questions. So, how do ants find food? I don't. We can't squeeze on any more questions. I will put you straight on air if you have an answer to these questions, how would the police. And if you're investigating, you can ring in and tell me. I'll keep your identity secret. We'll call you undercover. Undercover. Colin, how will they track down these drone. Rogue drone flyers? I just want to know what they'll do, what technology is available to them. I think they work on radio waves, don't they? So you're not going to be able to triangulate it in the way you could a mobile phone? Not for the controller. I don't think you are. But I don't know anything. So, the drones. We've done the Christmas crackers. How will the police investigate the drones? We've done Brexit. Is it just drones? Is that all we've got left? Drones and ants? Okay. How do ants find food? And how do cops find rogue drone users? Zero 345-606-0973 Matt is in reading. Matt, question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Carry on, Matt. So on the drones, the first thing I'd like to say on it is the police won't do anything. What they'll actually do is outsource it to a company with the equipment to do it. Basically, it's very, actually quite easy to hack a drone with the correct equipment. They basically went over 2.4 and 5 GHz systems, the same as Wi Fi signals do, and much the same as your Wi Fi network at home. It's quite easy to crack into. So that's how they can bring the zone down, they can control it, they can redirect the feed by doing something called a deauthentation attack on the drone. But the police won't do it. Another company or the government specialists would do it. And as for the base station on it, it's quite a simple task that's been used for years by people with Ofcom. They just get a high gain antenna, you use a scanner, you know what frequency ranges they're on, you find the frequencies, you walk around in a circle till you find which direction it's all they have to do is leg it. They couldn't track them down if they weren't. Well, obviously, unless they're actually flying the drone at that time, they're not going to be sending out any signal. No. They'd either have to bring the drone in themselves to get the serial numbers off it and track back where it was bought from. And hopefully it would be bought from either an online account where you could trace back the bank account it was bought from, or a shop in public where they could look at the CCTV, etcetera. Yeah. So that's basically it. It's not a perfect crime, but it's a lot harder to trace than almost anything else that could move that quickly and that effectively. There's actually a section in the industry at the moment where drones are having raspberry PI's put onto them and actually used as mobile hacking devices. So if you need to get into somebody's network and you can't physically access their site, say a power grid or somewhere like that, but they've got Wi Fi on site, it's not being unknown for people to fly the drone and land it in the car park where they can use it as a hacking pin out, mate, and use it like that. Qualifications. I am one of the good guys from what we call an ethical hacker. I work for a defense company protecting people from attacks as such. Give him a round of. Is that Abraliotta or not? How many people do what you do? Roughly? Christmas, I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. And a round of applause. Right, Luke, you've got to answer the question about ants really quickly, otherwise I'm not going to have time to plug my book signing tonight. No worries. So ants use their antenna and they can pick up my new odors. Sugar leaves a minute. Qualifications? I'm working pest control. Round of applause. Between 07:00 and 08:30 tonight, I would be delighted to join you for a book signing and wine drinking event at wild and lees on Half Moon Lane in Herne Hill. I do. I do hope you can make it. If you can't, I'll have a drink for you. Here's Sheila Fogarty. If you enjoyed this part of podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.