Car keys on the head?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, three minutes after twelve and it's back. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. If you're not familiar with this feature and if you're discovering LBC as a consequence of our superlative royal coverage, then I should tell you upfront, this is rather different from what you have experienced thus far. It's both silly and serious, is amusing but also enlightening, and if it goes well, it should pretty much push all of your buttons, intellectually and emotionally speaking. How can I speak so confidently of it? Well, it's been around for years. It's been pushing all buttons, all available buttons for the longest time. And so successful and popular has it proved that it has even spawned. How many radio features, Keith, have spawned actual board games? Can you think of any others? Surely Steve Wright, back in the day, must have got a board game out of some of the fantastic features that he used to do. Can you think of any others? Artune? Simon Bate. That Simon, if you're listening, did you ever get a board game based on rtune? What else would it? Can anyone think of a board game? Miles is probably trying to think one up as we speak. So competitive, that boy. Honestly. So there is a genuine board game. And I mention that because, well, hey, I can flog you box. If you head over to Mysteryhour dot co dot UK, comma, you can buy one, you'll even get changed out of 20 quid. And B because there is indeed a game up as a prize every week now on mystery hour, my favourite contribution to mystery hour wins a mystery hour board game. Fun for all the family. And that's it. I mean, that's all you have to do. Just delight me when I should do the grown up bit as well, shouldn't I? Terms and conditions. The full terms and conditions are available at LBC dot co dot UK. Dot. Also at LBC co dot UK is our sort of running our live. What's the word? I want our live. What is it? Is it a blog? It's not a blog. Live. What? What is it? The thing about the queue. Queue. Watch, like the live queue count. Cue the Elizabeth line. But the live telling you how long it is, where it is. Anyway, it's all live and it's also at LBC dot co dot UK. Did pop master. Has pop master had a board game off the back of it? Has it? Probably. You'd think so, wouldn't you. It's the second most popular radio feature in history. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Shall we start without any further ado? There it is. It's strangely hypnotic watching the Chiaoggia. I've got it up on the screen in the studio now. Even more hypnotic is watching the camera in Westminster hall itself. It is strangely soothing, it is serene and it is, again, it makes sense. But it doesn't make sense. My catchphrase of the week, let's crack on. Mystery hour. Which only ever makes sense, except when it doesn't. Jamie's in Chippenham. Jamie, question or answer, James. Thank you. Yeah, it's a question. Green screens in films. The first use of them was in 1903. Hang on a minute. This is mystery. I not. Ring me up and tell me things. Our question is coming. The first use of them was in 1903. Yeah. In a film called, I believe it was the great train robbery. Wow. But why are they green? Why aren't they blue or red or purple? Why are they green? You know the first bit of the answer, don't you? Which must be because it works better than any other color does for what green screens do. But you want to know why? Yeah, exactly. Somewhere it'd be somewhere it is on the spectrum, won't it? Something to do with where it is on this. I like that question. I'm just thinking, sometimes I burble like this, Jamie, because I think we may have had it before and I may be able to drag the answer from my befuddled, cobweb ridden memory banks, but it's not going to happen. The green screen. Yeah. All right. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. I should look forward to finding out the answer to that, or possibly rediscovering the answer to that. 1207 is the time if you want to join in. Remember, it's not just questions that I'm looking for, it's also answers. So if you know the answer to one of these questions, then ring it immediately. And it gives you a chance, of course, to win that mystery hour board game. Gavin is in. Leads. Gavin. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. So when I was a kid. Yeah, cotton hole, they always had a flea market. It did, yeah. Yeah. And you always had that joke about selling fleas. I was in Crete the other week and I saw a sign for flea market. What is a flea market? Where's the word flea come from? I think I know this and I don't know whether it is definitive or not, but I think this is the received wisdom it's born of the idea that if you're buying furniture that's very old, then it's likely to have fleas in it. I think that they sell jewelry and all that. Well, yeah, but I mean, you know, they sell. Well, let me think of an example. They don't just sell supermarkets, do they, Gavin? And yet that's it. And so the flea market began as sort of house clearances, almost. Well, there weren't so many goods, would it, if it were a fleet known as a flame? Well, it would, actually. Back in the day, everyone had fleas. They were commonplace. If it wasn't for fleas, then the bubonic plague, actually, I think that's been redrawn, that little bit. You don't want to go out and buy it, would you? Well, I don't know that this is a subject for debate. I'm not. I'm not here to defend the choice of name for a flea market, I'm merely here to explain it to you, Gavin. Wasn't my idea, mate. Don't shoot the messenger. What did they have flies in Crete as well? Fleas in Crete? Yeah, of course they do. They've got fleas everywhere they go. Everywhere. Anywhere. There's mammals, there's fleas. I think that's the answer, but I don't know. I sense you're not going to take it. No. Well, fool you, then. Marshall pouss, the French. Marshaupuss. Someone's just texted me, Marshaupuss is the French for flea market. And it comes, it comes. I know I'm right, but I'm not going to be arrogant and demand a round of applause if you're not prepared to admit that I clearly and obviously deserve one. Well, that's my first time, so. All right, I'll leave it on as well, you know. All right, nice one. Cheers. Gavin Machau. Pouss. Thank you. Chris is in Glasgow. Chris, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. This might sound a bit of a weird one because the lady I was explaining it to there, I think she was thinking, I took the mic. That's my lady, that's my producer. Carry on. What is the car remote, you know, for, like, unlocking your car? Yes. If you go. Or I found that, say, for example, I'm 20 meters away from the car and it doesn't unlock the car because the distance is too far away. If I place it to my temple and press the button, it works and it'll work up to, say, another 10 meters after that. So my question is, how does that happen or why does that happen? Well, before we get to your question, I think we're going to get to mine first. How did you discover this? You know, I don't honestly remember, but the reason I tried. Are you in the military? Are you in the military? I was, years ago. Have you. Do you salute sometimes by accident and also press the button on your key fob at the same time? Not quite. Could have been that. Could have been that. The reason I discovered it was I live in a flat and we're like on the street, the cars park out the front. And it was one of those days that I'd forgotten before where I didn't know if I'd locked the car and it wouldn't work from looking out the window. But then something was in my mind. I can't remember if I heard it somewhere or whatever. I tried it and it worked and then I tried it. I was just mucking about with the kids in the car park and sort of saying, look, here's some power of your mind kind of thing. I think I know the answer. I think I. Well, if it's to do with. Because you're raising the fob to maybe a better line of sight. No, it's not that. No, because you've tested that, haven't you, by putting it to your tempo when you've squatted down on the pavement. Well, I was waving the fob about. It wouldn't work if you sort of like hold it up in there, but again, put it to your temple. It's because your skull is working like a bell. So the radio waves or whatever it is that are coming out of the thing are expanded. I mean, it's like a bell, it's amplifier. So your skull becomes an amplifier. Well, do you know, I thought along that lines, but I thought that would be a bit weird. What did you think it was? Magic? Well, I don't know. That's why I thought. Yeah, but how could you think that? I mean, the Sherlock Holmes answer would be a bit weird. Of course it's going to be that. Your skull is a bell, albeit that it's got a brain in it, it's got echoing type capacity. But then, you know, if I put it to my. Some skulls more than others, it wouldn't work on my chest or my arm. It only worked on my arm. But your chest and your arm aren't domes, bell shaped domes, are they? No, that's. I'm having this one, I'm going. I should have got the last one. I think it was on Top Gear once, if you're asking me how I know it. Oh, really? Yeah. Me too. Am I to take your word on it, then? No, it's not my word, it's Jeremy Clarkson's. Well, I can't. Can't doubt Jeremy. No. If you do, he'll punch you. Round of applause for me. Do I need an allegedly there? I don't know. Let's find out. 1212 is the time. You're listening to Joseph Brian on LBC. Paul's in Grace. Paul, question or answer? Morning, James. Is a question. It's Paul, the ice cream man from Grange. How are you, Paul? Did you. Did you? No, you didn't. Hang on, go on. What was your birthday? It's your birthday today. How did you know that? Because. Let me guess, your star sign, you're looking it up. Yeah. What star sign is today? Can someone tell me what star sign it is for today, please? Are you Virgo Paul? Are you Virgo Paul? I am a Vogue. And there's a little sound effect there. You did that, not me. What was that in the background? It was Keith. Oh, that's the highest praise. Anyway, where were we? I'm not saying I should win the ball game because it's my birthday, but it's a great question. Now, look at this. Look at the events going in London. Of the queue. What is the ever longest ever queue? Where was it and what was it for? Oh, that's a good question, mate. Is he winning a board game? Question. So, it's 1213, it's early doors. You might have. You might have edged into a lead there, but it is early doors. I know it's your birthday, but I can't be swayed by such considerations, can I? Otherwise, you know, why not? Well, because. What? Someone else rings in and it's their birthday, what am I going to do, chop it in half like King Solomon? I was there first. Doesn't matter, does it? Listen, I can't get them lemon and lime lollies anywhere. Can you not? No. I know you said Enzo had some, but I can't get them. Do you know Enzo? Have you met? No. You're at the other end of town, aren't you? No. He's got an it, he's got special italian suppliers as. Enzo, I need to talk to. Have you. Well, the lemon. I'll get the name of it for you, all right? I'll get the exact name of it for you and then I'll tell you what he also does. Paul. What's that? He does a pistachio. Lolly. Yeah, I'll do that. Pistachio Lolly. Yeah. Pistachio ice cream. No, I know about the pistachio ice cream. I wouldn't be making a fuss about pistachio ice cream. Pistachio ice cream is as old as the hills. But he does a pistachio Lolly that's got almost like a. It's got almost an oily finish to it. It's so delicious, it coats your mouth, you know, pistachio flavor. Yeah. It's not just the pistachio flavor. There's a clue about that on the packet. It's the consistency of it, like a creaminess. It's. I'll get you the name of that as well, Paul. Seriously? Yeah. You're welcome. It's 12:15 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1217 is the time. What is the longest queue ever? Do we know what is the origin of the phrase flea market? I think I know that. But Chris wouldn't accept. Not Chris. Gavin wouldn't accept my answer. And why are green screens green? Jamie wants to know. And so now do I. Pete's in Brentwood. Pete, question or answer? I have an answer for you, James. Carry on, Pete. It's the. Why are green screens green? Indeed it is simply because in human skin there is very little green pigment. It's also the reason why they use blue, because there's very little blue in human skin. They lose. They lose. They use blue screens as well, do they? They do, yeah. So most of the time they use blue and green screens. But you can do. It's called chroma key. Most people just call it green screening. It's called chroma key and you can. Can use any color. But green works best because it's usually humans. Oh, so I bet they didn't use a green screen for the special effects in hulk. No, exactly. So if on Star wars there was someone painted green to be an alien, they'd use blue. Or if they were painted green and blue, they could have used red. Qualifications. Any color they want. I made a tv series for kids which is on CITV called mini movies, and one of the elements we had was all about green screen. This is when you do movie trailers and you put real people in them, don't you? Yeah. That's it. That's fantastic. I've seen that. Oh, is it still on? It's still on. It's repeated Saturday and Sunday mornings at 08:00 a.m. On CiTV. Sensational stuff. And is it your brainchild. I mean, it is indeed my brainchild, me and, yeah, my friend Adam. We made it with much love and care. Get you. That's fantastic. And I mean, straight from the horse's mouth, really can't argue that. You use them. You use green screens or indeed blue screens and, you know, on a. The odd red screen as well. Exactly what color screen would you use for a UkiP conference? Don't answer that. I don't want to get you into trouble. Last thing we want is mini movies getting boycotted by people. Round of applause. Round of applause for Pete. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Rebecca is in Merstham. Is it Mersterman? Sorry, Rebecca. That's absolutely correct. Yes, it is. What would you like to say? Hang on a minute. Mystery. I got my catchphrase. Wrong question or answer question. Carry on. We have just sadly left an elizabethan era. We have. So what era are we going into now? I can tell you this because it's the sort of thing I've swatted up on as a precursor to presenting hour upon hour of royal related coverage since late last week. And the answer is Carolean. Oh, okay. Great to know. Did you, did you, did you have it? Did you think you'd have it? Did you have an idea what it might be? Or is that. I had absolutely no idea at all. I was curious, so I just thought the best place to call was mystery hour. There you go. And it gets me a round of applause. I mean, Carolingian was suggested in some circles, but I think Carolingian refers to a whole dynasty. It's one of the byzantine sort of charlemagne. It's not just one king. So Carolean is definitely what's happening, because I've checked. But also, interestingly, because I know Rebecca, like most listeners to this program, you're always fascinated by my Kidderminster related little nuggets. Nuggets, definitely, yes. So, King Charles High School in Kidderminster, obviously not named after this King Charles, but named after one of the others. There's still a. I think it's a rugby team or a cricket team in kiddie that was founded by their old boys and that is the old Caroleans, you see. Oh, wow. Good to know. It is good to know. And do you want to know something really weird that we only found out a couple? Do you know Tom Watson, the former deputy leader of the Labour Party? Not personally, no. No. But you know of Tom Watson, the former deputy leader? I know Tom because we didn't know him at the time, but we did actually grow up on the same street in Kidderminster, on Hercott Road. And he went to King Charles High School. I knew that about him. So I read something in the paper a couple of weeks ago, and the first thing I did was send him a message saying, did you know about this? And he said, no, I had no idea. Guess what that little nugget of information was, Rebecca? Toby Gordon, Liz Truss's father, was a maths teacher at King Charles High School in Kidderminster for a couple of years in the mid seventies. Well, there you go. Isn't that incredible? I got more answers than I needed. You got answers to questions you didn't even know existed, never mind have the vaguest interest in hearing. I'll take the round of applause now. Thank you, Rebecca. Thank you very much. Better known. It's a lovely question. A lot of people will be glad of the knowledge that we are now in a carolean period. Andy is in Brighton. Andy, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. I've got a question for you. Thanks for having me on, by the way. Really big fan. You're always a guy. Thank you, Andy. It's good to hear from you. What would you like to say? Well, my question has. I've had this for ages, but I've learned something recently that's added even more complexity to it. I've learned that the english language, back in a long time ago, old English, used to, much like German, have three genders for nouns, masculine, feminine and neuter. We, as human beings, we're quite lazy and we always, especially with language and how it evolves. We always cut corners and things just, you know, the language evolves, doesn't it, naturally, over time. My question is, why are there still so many, especially european languages, that engender their nouns? Why are the Germans and the Spanish, why do they still sex their vegetables? That's what I'd like to know. How did we do it? How would it have worked in old English? It was. Well, you know, I've already. I've lost quite a lot of the information that I've learned because, I mean, both difficulty retaining this stuff, but it has naturally just ebbed away with the evolution of English as. I don't see how it could have done. I'm not. I just. I'm not doubting you. I'm just. I don't understand. Well, it's as different as English English today. Modern English is quite different to Old English. And it was in old English that we engendered now. Well, I'm thinking of Old English. I'm thinking a bit of Chaucer. Is that old enough? Yeah. Well, that was Middle English. Chaucer was middle English, wasn't it? Quite. Berwolf, then. Are we going back to Burwolf? Possibly. Bear. Wolf. Yeah. See, this is where I get. I'm hazy on that stuff, but I do. I have learned that we do. How has it endured? How is it conveyed? So how would we know whether an apple was masculine or feminine? Well, that's the question I've got about the French, and that's because of the definite article is and lag, you know, whether it's masculine or feminine. I don't know. How did it become. Why is a table of females. You know? I don't know. Well, we still gender, Julie points out, we sex ships. There's a phrase I never thought I'd say on the radio. We do. Don't we, though? We do that. Why through the general. What's the actual question here, Andy? For gossip. Yeah. So why haven't. Why haven't those habits in other languages fallen by the wayside? I'm not convinced that they've fallen by the wayside in our language. Because we haven't got any examples of a gendered or sexed word in old English. No, because we just don't do it anymore. It's not. What did it look like when we did do it? Oh, well, so there was. There was. Oh, God. I'd see. I'd have to look up the YouTube video that. I should have done that before you came on the radio. You should have done that before you came on the radio. I still think it's a good question. It is a good question. If it is actually a good question. If it's not a good question. It's not a good question. Is it. Is it a male question or is it a. I don't know. I don't know what sexist question, Oswald? We'll find out. If there's an answer, I'll find it. All right, then. Thank you. Bless you, too. Take care. Zero. 345-606-0973 why do we not have gendered nouns in English? Or why do the French and the Germans still have gendered nouns? Do you know what I'm getting? I've been very chilled in my old age, so I'm going to let variations of that go. If you think you can answer any of the questions that popped up during the course of Andy's conversation, you are welcome. Longest queue in history. Origin of a flea market and some suggestions that Pete might have deserved the Ray Liotta for the green screen. I have to disagree. I know he works with green screens, but Ray Liotta, he'd have to have invented it. And Jamie told us that it was around in 905 and it didn't sound that old. Martin's in Sidcart. Martin, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's a question. Carry on. Where does the saying come that if you're going out for a slap up meal. Ah, now, I've got two problems here. The first is that I just said I was really chill about the rules these days and I'm about to contradict myself. And the second is the actual problem, which. This is not directed at you, Martin. This is directed at my colleagues, because we have quite a strong rule on mystery hour that we only take one origin of phrase question every week. Otherwise, for reasons I have never understood, but I do kind of understand otherwise, we get inundated with origin of phrase questions. That's just people think. As soon as you say that, where does slap up meal come from? Someone else will think, where does humdinga come from? Or where does all the trimmings come from? Do you see what I mean? So we've already got flea market, and now we've also got slap up meal with all the trimmings. I know this as well. Don't look at me like that, Keith. I know this one. Right. It's not originally what you think it is. A slap up feed with all the trimmings. I don't know the origin of that. I think that is an evolution from a slap bang meal. Right. And a slap bang meal was a meal where you slap the money back down on the table, so there's no messing about, there's no faffing around, there's no fancy malarkey. It's just good old fashioned meat and sous vide straight down your gullet and then slap bang the money or slap bang meal. Slap bang meal, cash on delivery, food down yet that, like, you know, buying it in the street or buying it in a tavern without having to wait for ages. So it's got nothing to do with women getting their slap on to go out for a meal? Absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with that. I mean, I imagine that the phrase slap as a synonym for makeup came around long after. Long after dickens used slap bang in a. In a book to mean cheap, you know, not fancy. Nowadays, it's like, if you're going out for a fancy meal, it's a slap up. I know it is. So that might be. That might be grounds to leave your question on the board. Okay, thank you very much. Hang on. But I don't think you'll get an answer to that because the origin of slap up is slap bang. So unless someone can talk us through precisely the point at which slap bang, meaning a relatively cheap meal, became slap up, meaning a slap up feed with all the trimmings, then you won't get your question will never be answered at all. So what are you going to do? What are you going to do, Martin? What are you going to do? Are you going to take it? Are you going to take it or are you going to gamble? I'm going to gamble. Whoa. That's only because the audience. We're all shouting gamble, isn't it? I know how this works. Exactly. I can hear them now shouting gamble, gamble, gamble. All right, you're on. We shall try and find out for you. Slap up feed. What's the origin of the phrase slap up feed with all the trimmings or just slap up meal? Not slap bang, mind. Gendered nouns, longest Q and flea market. It's a good one. This a nice mixture. For the benefit of my colleagues rather than you listening, no more questions about origins of phrases, please. Not least because Wayne in Basildon went out, bought brewer's dictionary of phrase and fable, ate it, and then managed to regurgitate answers to all questions involving origins of phrases. For the best part of three or four years, it's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. Well, that's absolutely fascinating, isn't it? Well, hang on. How do you know? I haven't told you yet. Blonde is an example of what Andy was talking about. Blonde is a gendered word in English. Blonde with an e for women's hair and blonde with no e. In other cont, blond is the masculine and blonde with an e is the feminine. So he's right. We did used to have gendered nouns. That's not even a noun, is it? That's an adjective. Anyway, gendered words. And another one is brunette. And brunette. Brunette. You can use brunette with one t. Just b r u n e t as an adjective. You don't anymore, but you could if you wanted to. That's. There you go. Crikey. So that question assumes a new sense of urgency. Why don't we. Why don't we have gendered nouns anymore. Or if you prefer, why do the French and the Germans still have gendered nouns? Origin of the phrase slap up feed. Origin of the phrase flea market. Yeah, I know, I know. Sorry about that. The world's longest queue. The longest queue ever in history, as far as we know. Where was it? What was it? How long was it? Next in nunhead, Nick, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. Yeah, love the show, by the way. Great family mystery hour. Oh, bless you. So, I'm quite nervous, but the question is about the ring finger. Oh, yes. On your hand. Right. Because, like, my oldest son and my wife can easily fold their fist up and stick that finger up, right. All the way up. All the way up. Right. But me and my youngest son, because, like, I'm doing it now as I'm talking to you. It's taking me a few seconds to really concentrate. I can't get it up. It's not that sort of program, Nick. You need to. We don't do that sort of thing anymore on LBC. Not since Anna Rayburn's day. Oh, no. So why is that? I mean, why is it. I mean, I know we don't use that finger that often, but, you know, they can. They manage to be able to do it straight away. Do you want to know something weird? I can do it with my. I can do it my right hand, but not with my left hand. Oh, really? No, I struggle with both, but also with my left, because I'm right handed. Yeah. No, my right hand is proud, but I just want to know why that is. I don't know, mate. My left hand is about. About 45 degrees, and my right hand is 90 degrees solid. Well, isn't that fascinating? Isn't that fascinating? Yeah, it's weird. It's really weird. I'd love to know an answer to that. So would I. Now, ring fingers. Yeah. Okay. Thank you, James. Also, just one more thing. My son rang up during the lockdown. And when those kids were ringing up. It's some of the funniest radio I've ever heard. Oh, it was lovely, wasn't it? That was brilliant. It was. Give him my best. Lovely. Thank you, Dwayne. Nothing without that was very special. And I still occasionally get. They come up now. And, of course, it's been two or three years, so someone who rang in as a sort of little squeaky voiced schoolboy is now sort of a hulking teenager. I came on your program when you had all those kids on. It's nice to see you. To see you. 1235 at the time. Andy's in High Wycombe. Andy. Question or answer? Hi. Hi. So, a question, please. Take your time, mate. Hello. How are you? You forgot my name, then, didn't you? Yeah, I know. It's easily done. I only say it about 40 times. The program. Go on. What have you got? Yeah, I was watching the procession yesterday and I was in awe of the Scotts guard band and the marines band, and I was assuming that they recruit these guys from musicians, rather than just finding an expert trombone player among the squaddies. So the question was, do they have to go through basic training like all the other recruits, or do they just teach them how to march? Wow. And they just go out as ceremonial? So do that. So the. So the top notch military musicians, do they fight in wars is what you're asking? Yeah, I know they go to war sometimes. You'd have a piper in front of it, wouldn't you? Or they're there for morale. Read. But do they actually get their hands dirty, as it were, they just kept in the UK just for this sort of occasion? It's a good question. I shall find out. Yeah. Because most musicians have chosen it as a career, haven't they? So I don't know if they'd want to. And they are that good, aren't they? I mean, they are. I mean, there's no reason why you couldn't be both. I mean, I don't know whether they'd get a gig in their kind of CBSO or something like that. They only play about six tunes. I'm not knocking them, don't get me wrong, but they only play about six tunes, don't they? The military one. Yeah. And they might choose to do it because you get regular income. Also, they might not fancy fighting in a war. Yeah, exactly. But they quite like being a soldier because of the pension. So they pick up the trombone. I don't know. We shall find out. Do the armed forces who play the music at the profession also fight? Are they actual fighting forces? That's a great question. And you're right, the music is so uplifting. You're about to say oddly uplifting, but it's literally designed. Never has music been more specifically designed to be uplifting than in the context of military marches. Mark's in Barrow, in furnace. Mark. It's going to be an answer. It always is. I wonder whether one day you might ask a question. It seems unlikely, because you know everything. I'll try to come up with a question. This is an answer, though, about grammatical gender, and we have actually mentioned this before. Yes. But we're talking about the indo european languages of Europe and western Asia, clearly including English. Yes. And they have historically a masculine feminine neuter gender system, which seems to go back to animist beliefs in the remote past where everything had a gender spirit in it, with agenda and so on. But of course, those beliefs have long gone. They have. And the distinction has become semi redundant. And although grammar changes slowly, it does eventually change. And in fact, I mean, this is just Indo European. There are other language families with. With different systems. Chinese has nouns classified, but not by gender particularly. Okay. And languages like Finnish, that family, don't have it at all. They have nothing corresponding with this. They don't even have different words for he and she. So it's just faded. So it's just coincidence. In some countries, it hasn't faded away completely, and in other countries it has. Well, it's faded away to a degree. I mean, in Dutch and Scandinavian, it's gone from masculine and feminine neuter to common neuter. Okay. And in the Romance languages, like French, they've lost the neuter. It's gone to masculine and feminine. But what seems to have made English change faster. Yes. Is that English was partly creolized in the dark ages when Norse was widely spoken in England. Very similar vocabulary, but rather different grammar. And so they had a compromise grammar, which is what happens in those circumstances, starts off as a pidgin with no native speakers, but eventually has native speakers when it's called a creole. And one of the features of Creoles is that the grammar simplifies. And in fact, you never get grammatical gender in a creole. It's one of the first things that are lost. There are actually other factors in the case of English, but this seems to be the main factor. And it also happens in Afrikaans, where there was creolization and grammatical gender disappeared again in Afrikaans completely. So you only get little vestiges of it in English now, like you were saying about blonde. Yes. And with the pronouns like he and she, and they're always to do with, almost always to do with actual sex or gender, not random assignments of nouns. Yeah, I get it. So this is something which happened, and it's happened quite quickly in English, and that's why middle English already have lost grammatical gender. And it's much more like modern English than it's like old English. What? Brilliant answer. And the French have deliberately kept it alive, haven't they? Because they still have a little sort of gang of scholars who decide if a new word comes up, like, I don't know, selfie they'll decide whether it's masculine or feminine. Yeah, I mean, to some degree it's controlled in France more heavily than we would allow it to be controlled here. Also Spanish, which we mentioned a while ago in this context, but it's there. I mean, it's a feature which is very slowly becoming reduced. And English went faster than most, mainly because of this creolization, we believe. Qualifications. Brilliant linguist. Well, I don't know about brilliant. I do. I dwell professional. Very happy to help out. I know you are, and it's always a pleasure to talk to you seriously. And I want to do more with you, Mark. I want to do a podcast or something like that, but I can't come up with a format. You let you come up with a format and we'll make it happen. All right, I will look into it, have a think. Very happy, very happy to do something like that. I could listen to you all day and I know an awful lot of other people could as well. I'm getting messages every time you come on, so there must be something we can do. Mark, round of applause. No, thank you very much. It's already got bottle, got a mischievous ball game. So Paul is safe for the moment. Steve's in ascot. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, James, but after Mark's answer. Yeah, go on then. What is it? Right. Simple one, then. When an airplane flies along, it wants to turn left or right? Yeah. It uses its wings, rudder and things to turn and it banks into the turn. It does. Doesn't. Submarine has wings on the front, wings on the back and a rudder. When it's underwater and it turns, does a submarine lean into the turn or does it go round flat? Ha. Got you. What do you mean, you've got me? I don't pretend to know the answer to all the questions. Um, what does a boat do? Uh, well, a boat leans. Yeah, it does. Submarine is underwater. Thanks. Thanks for that, Steve. Thank you. Yeah, thanks, Steve. No, thanks for the heads up there. Thanks for the heads up there. But there's a clue in the name, isn't there? Submarine. Thank you. That's why I said submarine underwater, not on the surface. No, I know you did. I know you did. But I mean, it's going to be the same laws of, um, aerodynamics. No, it isn't. It's aqua dynamics, because it's totally surrounded by the water, isn't it? So, surely. Well, I don't know, does it lean into it or just go, I like this question. I like this question a lot. I think you can turn a boat around without leaning into it if you do it slowly, can't you? But you can. But it's still only bouncing along on the surface of there. No, I know, I know, I know. I do know the difference between a boat and a submarine, Steve. I might not be the sharpest knife. Submarine is called a boat, isn't it? Submarines, technically a boat, but we were talking about submersibles versus. Yeah, I'll find out for you. Does a submarine, when it's underwater, tilt into a turn? Yes, please. You're on zero. 345-606-0973 if you can help, Steve. And now me. Do the musicians, the military musicians, do they fight in wars? Why can you. Why can some people lift their ring finger from their fist all the way up as if they were swearing if it was the finger next to it, where other people can't? And I am incredibly bothered. My left hand 45 degrees, my right hand 90 degrees. I should probably stop doing it now in case the boss walks past the studio and thinks that I'm treating my staff with contempt. Jet gendered nouns. We've done slap up, feed. I think I've done that. But Mark refused my answer. Car key. We've done. Longest queue for Paul, please. And origin of flea market. There's an open goal there. Seriously? Terry's in Sissinghurst. Terry, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on, Terry. Well, bandsmen. All bandsmen are trained as first aiders. Primarily. Their role in war is to go out and move casualties around. Traditionally, during the first 2nd world war, they were called stretcher bearers, but now, in more modern times, they're trained in an advanced first aid. But their role in war is to support medical reception stations, medical field hospitals, and move casualties around. Basically, that's their primary role in war now. Primary. So they don't get stuck in, as it were, to the. You know, the fight? No. Just because you're in the band of the Royal Marines doesn't mean you go and drop you your instruments and suddenly run off and fight with the marines. I think the question was not thinking what you do, just go back to base and swap your trumpet for a machine gun or something like that. I don't know. He was just. He thought that they're playing here. I do, at the pageantry, they're doing the music. But if there was actually a war and they were mobilized, would they be mobilized like. Like fighting soldiers, or do they go there as well? The thing is, James, every soldier, no matter what you are, your first role is as a soldier, so you are taught how to fire a weapon. You are taught how. Basic infantry skills. But obviously, when it comes to deployment and being out on the battlefield, everybody has their part to play. Absolutely. Absolutely crucial. You wouldn't get far without medics. What are your qualifications, please? 18 years in the Royal army medical Corps. And what instrument did you play? I didn't play. I still can't. James. I can't play any instrument, but I can do karaoke. That's no use. Give away your position to the enemy, actually. So with any form of music. Right, round of applause for Terry. I like it. Thank you. Thanks, James. Star. Cheers. I like this text as well. It's unsigned. I've just very nearly broken my ring finger trying to push it upright. Seriously, terms and conditions apply. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1240. Crikey. 1249 already. We better crack on. Need some answers. The submarines tilt when they turn underwater. Why can you? Some people raise their ring finger to 90 degrees while other people can't. If it doesn't work naturally, don't force it. You could hurt yourself. Origins of the phrase slap up feed. What was the longest queue? And origins of the phrase flea market? Bob's in Perth. Bob. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on your previous call. Give a partial answer to whether musicians fight or not. Yes. And scottish infantry regiments. Now, the royal regime of Scotland and the Scots Guards and the Royal Irish, the pipes and drums, as they're called, their primary role is fighting soldiers, musicians second. Excuse me, is it? Yeah. And they're allocated a specialist Shingon platoon role, or they did do. So they are fighters first, go through all the basic training and the combat, premium training, all that sort of stuff, and then they also take up the role as musicians. I like this answer. So it's regimental specific, then the answer to the original question. Correct. And yes. Yes, exactly. So which regiment did the question reference? Can you remember who would have been playing the music yesterday? Some of the. Well, actually, some of the english infantry battalions have. So flute drums and stuff like that. Yeah. And they are fighting soldiers, so it's across the whole spectrum, really. So it completely varies. It completely varies, yeah. But there is a core of military music and the people who. Forgive me, but, you know, trumpets and brass and all that stuff, they are musicians. But pipers and drummers and the flutists in the english battalions are all fighting soldiers first, musicians second. Qualifications? I served 34 years of the Blackwatch. 34 years. Thank you for that. I don't think this is the most important honor you've received as a consequence of your military service. I hope it isn't, Bob. It's a great program I listen to other time. Thank you, mate. Have a round of applause. Happy about it. 1251 is the time. Craig's in Newark. Craig. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Okay, then. So I hear you've got quite a lot of linguistics on the phone and those people who know too much about the english language, which I'm trying my luck here. Okay. Hello. Go on. So, the definition of a queue is people who are waiting for something, right? And what we've got in 1989 was the baltic chain, and that was where we had over 2 million people. I believe it was over 2 million people who were queuing up in a line from all the capitals. So, from Vilnius, Riga, and the Estonia. I can't remember the capital of Estonia for a second. No, no, that's Lithuania. Okay. I've been there. Tallinn. That's it. Of course it is. Anyways. And there was queuing up, waiting for freedom. Over 2 million people. And that the freedom was obviously the collapse of the Soviet Union wanting their independence. And that was an actual queue. It was. Well, I'm calling it a cue, because it was literally waiting that whole length of time. They call it the baltic chain because it was all holding hands, but because they were waiting for freedom. They're waiting for their independence. I'm calling it a queue. Yeah. I mean. But now we've got the. Linguistics would agree with me on the call, because I think that's an exodus. Exodus, isn't it? It's not a queue, it's an exodus. Trying to get out of something, not getting to something. Oh, there's a philosophical question. I don't know if you can. But then we'd probably have other points in history, like the long march or, you know, one of Farage's disgusting posters. They would then count as cues, wouldn't they, in the context of what you're saying? Well, you've got. You've got seven minutes left. My advice is to accept the answer. Well, thank you for your advice. I'm not giving you a round of applause, though, because I don't think it's a queue. What were they queuing up for? For freedom. I don't want your freedom. I don't want to play around part time love. Just brings me down. Craig. Pausing up, Mister Paul, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on, Paul. On the submarines. Oh, good man. Go on. My boy was based at Fazlane for 20 years, he was on the boats, nuclear subs and of other hammock killers. Wow. So you know, as well. Yeah. Fantastic. So a sub has two. They call them planes, either side of the sub, front. At the front. And it's normally for depth up and down. Right. As always, a depth of the sub. A sub can kill, but can turn quite quick. Probably in battle station mode, it will turn over, like roll a bit. Yeah. Not normally, no. Subs don't turn into a turn. They don't roll over into a turn. That's fantastic. I had someone else on me. A plane leads into the plane leans into the turn. A boat leans out of the term, but a submarine doesn't lean after the rudder, alters the direction. I think planes have, like, airlines, they're called, or something, I don't know, to make them turn, you know, they can bank into it. Fantastic. And you've given us your qualifications before. The answer, which is a very novel approach, but it earns you a round of applause nonetheless. Quite well on this. Thank you, Paul. David's in team David. Question or answer? It's an answer to the board game question. Radio inspired games. Well, that wasn't a question, that was just a bit of banter. Well, they put me on. I thought you said, as everybody knows, another radio program in. Yeah, but I can't ask questions on mister. If I start asking questions on mister, it's just like the other 14 hours of the week, isn't it? It's just another phone in. Go on, then. You're here now. Okay. I believe it was in the 1980s, there was a radio program called Steve Allen in the afternoon. Steve Allen in the afternoon. No, Steve Wright in the afternoon. Steve Wright. You're still on Steve Wright in the afternoon. Yes, it was, and it was humorous and musical and whatnot. And my daughter was very keen to have this board game that came out called Steve Wright totally stupid game. So a bit like mine, and we played it twice, and it was so good, I safely stored it right at the back of my garden shed, and it's laying in shape. Steve listens to the show. He doesn't want to hear. He doesn't want to hear that. That's not fair. Oh, I love it. All right. Steve Wright's totally stupid board game. Yeah, I just thought you might like. I love it. I think DLT had one as well, back in the day. But there's only mystery house seems to have survived. Round of applause for David. It's a collector's item now. David, 1256 is the time. Robert's in Fulham. Robert, question or answer? Steve's inquiring. Fred, James, you're on. What? On what now? It's more of a clarification. This is the car key and being used to amplify the signal to unlock your car? Yes. So you said it was the structure of the skull? Yeah, that's partially correct. But it's what's inside the skull, because it's whatever it is, it's mainly water. Yes. And because you put the key to the side of your brain, the frequency of the water matches the frequency of the signal, which extends the range of the rf signal, which is electromagnetic radiation, and basically unlocks your car. Blimey. So your brain is being used as an antenna. My brain is like an antenna. Round of applause. Well. Qualifications? Just a quick one. The most important thing, if you're ever wearing green trousers, you just walk up to the car and you rub the trouser against the car and it unlocks the car because you've got khaki trousers. How dare you? How dare you come on this program? I had to shoot all my. Not only is that absolutely awful, but I've never heard it before. Dad jokes are usually dad jokes. Dad jokes. Daddy, daddy, dad jokes. Excuse for a dad joke always. No, no. You need no excuse for a dad joke. Except possibly, there being some children around. But who are we to quibble? What are your qualifications for the substantial general knowledge? It was on a Brian cox. That's good. Brian Cox trumps Jeremy Clarkson any day of the week, doesn't he? I don't think there's any doubt about that. Round of applause for Robert and his cocky trousers. Cocky Charles. I really like dad jokes. Unfortunately, I've now reached a stage in life where my children don't. We're still delightfully at the stage where they enjoy not liking them, but I know it's not going to last long. So there's three stages of dad joke, I reckon. There's the bit where the kids love them and think that you're some sort of linguistic genius stroke comedian. And then there's the bit where the groan is affectionate and indulgent. And then there's the bit where I'm approaching now with one of them. And I think the other one will probably not be far behind, where there's no pleasure at all for anybody in it except dad. And that pressure will be short lived. The poor game. It's got to be Paul, hasn't it, for the board game? It's his birthday. And it was actually a brilliant question and he didn't really get an answer. We still don't know what the longest queue in the world is. OMG, James, I'm dying. He was. He was hilarious. What a deadpan. Oh, no. Now we want a stewards inquiry on whether or not he should get the ball game. I've got. Isn't it the one for the great Wall of China? What was that? The queue to get in. To get in. To get on, to walk along. That must be pretty long. Longer than this one here. Longer than. Dunno. Don't know either. You're not getting a ball game for that, Sheila Fogarty. I've given it to Paul. Because you can't win a board game for jokes, otherwise everyone will ring in with a rubbish joke every week and I'll have no role left on this program. Here's Sheila.