Do they copyright crosswords?

With James O'Brien. It's three minutes after twelve before we wade into mystery. A little nod to my former colleagues over at Joe dot co dot UK. Their politics arm has done an astonishing little exercise with Amber Rudd, in which she reads some of the abuse that she receives on a daily basis. It's utterly vile, but I retweet that from my accountrJamesob so you can have a look at it. Lest you think that sometimes we exaggerate that it's the quantity more than the quality, to be honest with you, as in the sheer scale, the amount of man hours that these people must put in to essentially defecating in their own hands, clapping and demanding that we watch. But that's for another day. We will concern ourselves now with, how can it be full? I didn't even trail it before. Do you think people are hanging around waiting for twelve noon and not actually hanging on my every Brexit related syllables? They're just waiting until I've got it over and done with so the fun can start. Surely not. Either way, the fun starts now. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need if you have a question which needs an answer. The rules are pretty slim on this. You don't really get on air if you're boring. But to be honest with you, that depends upon the perspicacity of my colleagues, which is far from infallible. Very often, it seems these days, boring people get put through, to which you're perfectly entitled to respond by saying, well, pot, kettle, and I'm perfectly entitled to respond by saying, hmm, but neither of us will do that because no one boring will get put through today. And similarly, repetition, which is pretty much my lookout. If it's a really obvious question, like, why don't you see white dog poo anymore? That is almost certainly something that we've asked in the course of the last ten years. Why don't you see baby pigeons? If it's a really obvious one, we've probably done it. If you want to double check, off you go to LBC dot co dot UK and have a look at the archive, the mystery hour archive that contains some of the do's and don'ts, the things we've done. Five after twelve. I like this. From Dee in Warrington, rugby league country says, hi, James, can you change the top prize from a Ray Liotta to a Swiss David Davis just until the 29 March? Thank you. I can't, but I can offer the choice because it wouldn't be fair on a caller who's dreamt of a Rayliotta. And if you don't know what I'm talking about now, stay tuned. You may by 01:00. You may not. Such is the nature of mystery hour. If you spent your whole life dreaming of a raliotidy, then it's not fair for me to then inflict Swiss David Davis on them. So I will offer a choice to anyone who I consider to be worthy of a Ray Liotta. They can have a Swiss David Davis, should they so desire. Can we make sure that everything's set up to deliver that dream, Keith, please. Thank you, Keith. Barry's in Stanmore. Barry. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Do you know why I keep saying Keith's name, Barry? No, I don't. Because his mum always listens to mister. Well, here's a question, then, for them. Carry on. In all the various newspapers and magazines that are published every day, you've got very, say, crosswords in various forms. You do. I know, I know. They take a long time to compile. Over the years of. Probably for magazines and things, I've probably done an old half dozen or so. Is that it? I thought you were going to say I've probably done about 40,000. What I do ask is, are they copyrighted? Is there anything to stop people, say, taking a crossword from an obscure publication 10, 20, 30 years ago or further back? Just. Just changing one or two of the clues. Just changing one or two of the. It's not quite as binary a question as I initially thought, because. Because there might be copyright. But then you could point out you can't have a complete copyright because that would involve copywriting words that everybody's allowed to use. I like this question. Yeah, but it's like a story, isn't it? It's like a narrative that they are using words, but so does the novel, so does fiction, so does non fiction. These are put in a particular order, which take a long time, as I say, to compile. But is there anything. And I take it they're paid for by the publications. Interlock loops of wool. Interlock, loops of wool. Four letters, begins with K. Sorry. Interlock loops of wool. I've just turned to the first newspaper on my pile today and I'm giving you a crossword crew. Hank. Hank. A, J and K. No, n begins in K. Begins in interlock loops of wool. Come on, Barry. No, I don't think I see it. What do you do with wool, baz? Wool. You knit. Thank you. You see, I can see why you've only done six, mate. Yeah, I tell you, they do take a long time. They do, they do. If you're struggling with that one, Barry, I shall do my best to find out for you. I was glancing at that to see if it had a copyright sign on it. I wasn't going to reveal one way or the other if it did or not, but, um, that's why I did it. And now, of course, I'm not going to reveal whether it did or not have a cut. It's a really good question because they're really hard to put together. You can. What you need to do is you get an empty grid, presumably, and then you fill it with words and then you do the clues. My friend was a crossword compiler for a while, so if we don't get an answer to this, I might give her a ring. Barry. Thank you. Take care. Fraser is in Aberdeen. Fraser, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why, after you have a drink, if you're, like, really thirsty, why do you go make that noise? I think I can work this out. Would you like me to try or are you not interested in my pontifications? Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. Well, what don't you do while you're drinking? What don't you do while you're drinking, which you normally do with your mouth and nose breathe. Right. And the longer you drink, the longer you don't breathe. So at the end of a very long drink, which is what one would take after, as you've described, being particularly thirsty, what are you going to need to do? Well, you're going to need to breathe, but. And you can't breathe in until you've breathed out. But why do you need to make the noise? Well, we can breathe out without making the noise. Well, you can always. You don't have to make the noise, it's optional. You're just stressing because the strength of the exhalation is such that it's above average and therefore registers as a sound, and then you get the exhalation out at a greater speed than usual. That's what explains the sound, so that you can breathe in more quickly. Because you're breathing in is more urgent than it is ordinarily, because you've just had a 20 minutes slug on your tenant. Super 22nd slug. 20 minutes don't live in Scotland. That is 20 minutes. Yeah, you can do a little bit of casual racial stereotyping, but I couldn't possibly comment. I think that will be the reason. But I'm not. I'm not going to give myself a round of applause. But it must be that. I'm not convinced. What else have you got? Well, that's why I called you. I know, I know, I know. But I've given you an answer and you're pooing it. You're laughing in my face. It must be that. Hang on, let me just test. Let me get some green tea. I want to do this properly. Okay. So you generally breathe in before you have a drink, do you? You do if you're drinking like that, but that's because it's hot, so you're breathing in as you drink. And that means if you take a particularly long drink at the end of it, that is it. I'm sure that's it. But we'll get a proper answer from a sort of grown up. Ten after twelve, Baxter is in Paisley, staying in Scotland. Question or answer, Baxter. That's a question. Carry on. Another drunk scotsman. Are you joking? Are you serious? It's another question about drinking from a scotsman. It's related. It's related. Okay. Remember in the old days when you get cans of, like, lager or fizzy pop? Yes. Iron brew. Yeah. It worked in iron blue. The old style disposable ring pools. Remember you could pull the ring and it would come off on your finger. If you shook the can up before you did that, you would get a fountain everywhere. Yeah. And the modern cans where you just. You just click the v tab. It does. It doesn't matter if you kick it up and down the floor or whatever, if you kick that tab, it doesn't spray anywhere. Are you serious? Yeah, absolutely serious. I've seen the kids do the opposite. I've seen the kids open a tin or something and it's gone everywhere. Yeah. I haven't seen it for a long, long time. When did you last conduct a peer reviewed experiment in laboratory conditions? I did it yesterday because I was thinking of one and I wanted to be absolutely sure that it did. It can I am brew. And you did it. You gave. You had your actual iron brew. You gave it a proper. What's that lovely scottish word? Is it shugel? Shugel. No, it's just a sugar. What's the word I'm looking for, though? The noun to describe a shake? We say there's a sh. Got a g in it. Is it? Sugar's a bit more gentle. Oh, is it? So you didn't give it a sugar, you gave it more than a sugar. Yeah. But if you want a real scottish word, you know, when it sprays out, the word is squish. I love it. So you gave it. You gave it a double. You gave it a double bubble sugar. And there was no shush at all. Nothing at all. Okay, well, that stands. And I mean, what do you think of the new recipe? Actually, while we're on the subject of iron brew, well, I have type two diabetes, so you shouldn't be drinking iron brew at all, you great big pudding. No, I've got a new version. It's called iron brew extra, and that's sugar free. It's much better than diet stuff. Much more like the original recipe. Hey, that's interesting. They got it right. Might have stevia in it or something like that. I don't know. Let's get answer for Baxter, please. Why don't fizzy pop cans scooch anymore? Zero 345-606-0973 why do we do this? After a satisfying draft of our favorite libation? And what's a copyright on crosswords? How does it work? Because you can't copyright an actual word, and a word is a bit of a crossword. So which bit can you copyright? And if you can't copyright anything, why don't local papers just print yesterday's times crossword for free? John is in Bristol. John, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, John. Now, many of our human behaviors can be explained or are explained by evolution. True. I'm intrigued by why human beings across the globe respond to what they identify as a beat in music by dancing to it. I mean, it may not have an evolutionary advantage. No, it made it work. But. But even if it's not an evolutionary explanation, it is very intriguing as to why. It's sort of the core of a human being's being is to respond to a beat in music. Yes. I bet it's got something to do with the heart in the womb. But why would that relate to a sound? I'm glad you paused for a long time before saying that because it gave me a little bit of time to assemble an answer. So the beat replicates the heartbeat. The heartbeat reminds us of absolute security, and absolute security makes us want to dance. That's not. You're not buying that? No, you're not. But you're not buying that. And frankly, I mean, you'd be mad if you did. I'll try and find out. Why do we respond to music physically? Zero 345-606-0973 what a lovely question. What great mystery out today. And I've realized that I just did something then which I didn't do. A year ago. And I've never noticed that before. You know how you nearly catch yourself saying Jimmy Savile and then you stop yourself, like you might making a Jim or fix it reference or something like that. And because Jimmy Savile was posthumously revealed to be an utterly despicable human being, I just did the same thing with Michael Jackson. So what I was about to say to John was. And then you hear the music and it makes you want to dance like Michael Jackson. Because that's a figure of speech, isn't it? I think it's in an action film where someone shoots the floor near the feet of the hero and says, dance like Michael Jackson. But because of the revelations and reports surrounding. Okay, to be fair to his fans who are really struggling and suffering at the moment, because of the allegations and reports surrounding Michael Jackson's posthumous reputation, I just. I just self censored. I don't know if you find that interesting. I hope you do. I just thought I'd share because that's what I do. It's 1215. This is LBC. I pledged in three. It's 1219. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I can't believe you're drunk at 08:00 in the morning. Well, it's World Book day. I've come as Ernest Hemingway. I'll give ten pounds to any six former who tried that at school this morning. I'm joking. Don't drink. It's 19 minutes after twelve. Mystery eye continues. Questions in needs of answers address the question of crosswords and copyright. The question of doing this after a satisfying draft, the question of why fizzy pop tins no longer create mini fountains after being. There's a bit of skepticism in the studio on this one from. From our friend in Paisley. I've forgotten his name. It was a really memorable name as well. Baxter in Paisley. But he swears blind it doesn't happen like that anymore. I think they changed the design of the tin because the ring pulls were detachable and sharp. So it was a simple safety issue. But it's what he says. If it's true. Answer the question. And why do we dance? A lovely question in evolutionary terms or other. Why does the human respond to rhythmic music by moving? By dancing? Is there a reason? And I said the crosswords. Copyright as well. Peter is in Dulwich. Peter, question or answer? It's an answer, I think for you, James. Oh, carry on the drinking. Yes. It's just a natural bodily function that stops you filling your lungs with fluids, basically. How do you mean? You can't breathe and you can't drink at the same time. One way or the other, you'll end up drowning yourself. It's like when you fall in the pool, you hold your breath and come up after breathe out. So the longer the drink, the greater the need to take a deep breath after drinking. Yeah. You've ever had it? When you. Sometimes if you catch yourself and it'll come back through your nose. Yes, exactly that. And the deeper the breath, just to address the question directly, the deeper the breath that you need, the deeper the breath that you do. And the deeper the breath that you do, the more likely it is to make a noise. It is, yes. And you can drink more the bigger breath you take. Yeah. That's it, yeah. Then you're emptying out the lungs. Getting ready for a lovely dose of oxygen. Qualifications. Peter? I was a lifeguard, but I've just picked up on the way through. I think if someone wants to challenge this, I will let them. But right now, where I'm standing, you richly deserve this. Thank you very much. Peter, mind how you go. 21 minutes after twelve. Liam is in Rochester. Liam, question or answer? Hello, I'm grand. Question or answer? Good man. Question. Yes. Not to rub it in, but I've never tried calling in before. Straight through. Good man. It doesn't rub anything in with me. But, Chris, a few people on Twitter are going to be furious. You might also point to the quality of your question, so don't blow it. Yeah. You might have had this before. I don't know. Get on with it. I want to know what the most expensive thing in the entire world is, monetary wise. Is it a piece of art? Is it a vehicle? Is it a possession? Is it something out in space? Spaceship, something like that? I don't know. Well, we need to just define thing. I mean. You mean a commodity that can be bought and sold or that can be priced. I mean, what priced? Maybe it was the most expensive thing to be built. Maybe. All right, I'll put it on the board and I hope we get you an answer, but I'm not optimistic. Liam, I've got to be honest with you, because it's too. It's too vague. Also, what if it was sold a thousand years ago and hasn't been sold since? How much is it worth today? That's a good shout. Also, what about the stuff that's priceless, like peace and love, man? There's not enough of that at the moment. You're telling me if someone wants to have a crack. I mean, if we confined it to. What's the most expensive thing anyone's ever bought? We might get an answer. Go on, then. All right. So in terms of an individual human being buying something. Yeah. What is the most expensive thing any human being has ever bought that might not only admit an answer, I'd be fascinated to know what it was. Thank you, Liam. Good work. It is 1223 David is in Liverpool. Or Merseyside at least. Question or answer, David. Question, please. Carry on, mate. Why do cap scratches itch more than normal scratches? Are you sure? I know that sounds a weird question. If you scratch your arm. Yeah. It doesn't itch. It might hurt, but it doesn't it. If you get a cat scratch, it itches. Is there something is this can. Just let me check with my colleagues. Hands up if you've got a cat. Hands up if you've ever had a cat. Hands up if you've ever been scratched by a cat. Did it itch? It does it. It does it. Oh, God. Yeah. Okay. In the way that other itches don't. Other scratches don't. I'm not. Yeah, I scratches it or itches scratch because of the scabbing process and that would apply to all scratches. So maybe your cats just cut you a little bit deeper than other scratches that you think of. I don't know. It is quite why I've got a violent cat. That is true, yeah. This. I do find that cat scratches all right. Itch more. Whether it's something in the claws, whether it's. It's unlikely to have a chemical reason because we'd probably know about. I suspect that you're. You're not comparing apples with apples. You're comparing scratches of two kinds, one of which is itchy because it's a deeper scratch. But I will find out for you, or at least I'll put it on the board. So, I mean, it's the y is in brackets, isn't it? So it's why in brackets do cat scratches itch? Yes. You're on. Thank you, David. 24 minutes after twelve. Cat scratches. Expensive stuff. Dancing, fizzy pop. Done that one. And crosswords. Take your pick. Harry's in Salford. Harry. Question or answer? Harry. The tension is killing me. Question or answer? Your final chance. Come in. Answer. What happened then? What were you doing? Sorry, I've called before and it was different name. Oh, I see. My real name is Jack Anderson. Why are you called Harry, then? Long story, but it was personal that I rang last time, quite a long time ago. It was actually you I spoke to. And it wasn't my story to tell, so that's fine. Just clearing it up. Not, not, not very fertile ground for hilarious banter after all. Question or answer, Jack? It is an answer. Carry on. So the answer to why we dance to a beat. Yeah. I have a degree in anthropology, and don't get me wrong, I haven't used it for a little while. My mates did anthropology, so for a beat, it was before we had verbal language. It creates a unity for people who are working or moving together. So more so, like homo ergaster or any of our other predecessors before verbal language. So when you were walking as a group, your feet would create a beat. It would then become an evolutionary thing that the beat is what is a unity. So anytime, any type of ritual or gathering, a beat would be used to create unity without language. So it's not just foot beats, footsteps, rather, but any kind of beating on a drum. Rhythmic beating can be used to create a cohesive group. I think you've got an answer. I don't know if it's the complete answer to the question as it was asked, which was more about dancing specifically. And it would apply, of course, in isolation, not just in company, but if there's some form of genetic inheritance or evolutionary inheritance, the reason why we do it in private is because we've been conditioned to do it in public. It would be more of a learned behavior through evolution. I mean, it's only theorized, it's one of the theories of how language began was a beat. So it may not be the direct, exact answer, but, you know, in the context of anthropology degrees, it's so rare to even come close to putting it to good use in the real world that I feel obliged, obliged to give you a round of applause. Thank you very much. If I finally now have a job that actually works. It took me ten years to get one, but now anthropology is quite a large part of my job. So what do you do? I'm a prison officer. Oh, wow. And crikey. I mean, you're speaking to the right person when you describe anthropology as being a helpful discipline to have if you're working as a prison officer. But you'd probably be best advised never to try and make that argument to a Sun columnist. I agree, to be honest. I'm just trying to argue with any sun columnist, to be honest. No, not unless you're being paid. Give Jack a round of applause. Applause, please. Great stuff. 1227 Sean is in stone in Staffordshire. Bill cash country. Sean, question or answer? It's a question, please, James, carry on. I would like to know, are you more or less likely to win the lottery if you play the same numbers every week? No difference at all. Well, that's why I think. But why do people do it? Because it's easier to remember, I guess. But there is. I mean, if you. If you have a coin and you toss it 19 times, it comes up heads every single time. The chances of it being heads on the 20th is still 50 50. Yeah. Remember something from school? No, I'm not. I mean, I've got a grade e, a o level in statistics. Your turn, your turn. Beat that. I see. No. Yeah, a b, O level. The lowest. No, not in statistics, mate. I got a b and O level maths. Before we get carried away with this, because I did early and you're not allowed to give it up legally until you're 16, I had to do an ao level in statistics and I protested by not doing anything for a year and my triumph was complete when I got an e in ao. That's how my teenage mind worked. Haha. I've got an e forever on my cv. That'll teach you, teacher. Hahaha. But no, you've got six numbers picked from 49. The odds on those six numbers being picked by a random generator are identical to, identical to any other six numbers, regardless of what the last six numbers were. Good. Well, in that case, it means I haven't got to worry about my memory. I can just rely on lucky dips. Keep doing the same ones or keep doing lucky dips. The problem with doing the same ones is, of course, the danger, which I think has happened, of you winning when you've forgotten to buy a ticket. The advantage of randomly doing it or doing it on lucky dips, or never even going close to having your own numbers if you accidentally stumble across the winning numbers three years after you stopped doing the same numbers every week and you realize, oh my God, that's my grandma's birthday. That's my wedding anniversary. That's my oldest daughter's birthday. That, oh my God, I won. And I stopped buying those. Now, I bought those numbers every week for ten years and I stopped buying them two years ago. And so that, I mean, there you go. Anyway, round of applause for me. More importantly, Lisa Aziz is here now with the headlines. The father of Jody Chesney, who was stabbed to death in today's episode of you couldn't make it up, but you don't have to because reality is much more bonkers than anything you could ever imagine. I give you this from the american. I don't know what word to use. You say talk show host or something like that, then you're giving them the same description that applies to your own career. Someone called Laura Ingraham, who works for the propagandists at Fox News. This is an astonishing quote, but, of course, not astonishing at all against the backdrop of american politics and media at the moment. She said recently, if you want to apply for asylum, that's fine, but you should do so in the safety of your home country. You know, when you read 1984 and some of the lines in it, like that was the party's final command, I think it might be the last line of the book. It's a while since I've read it. The bit about not trusting the evidence of your own eyes and ears, but trusting only what the party tells you. That is the party's final and most important command, or something like that. And I have to tell you, I held Orwell in the highest regard throughout my schooling, but I never actually realized how prescient he was. I never realized how plausible his dystopias were. But there you have it. Applying for asylum is fine, but you should do it in the safety of your home country. So you should apply for asylum in the safety that you need asylum from. Sorry to digress from mystery Abbott. Sometimes it just stops me in my tracks. The scale of the con that's being perpetrated on our planet at the moment by these people, these very kind of wealthy, and I don't even know what adjectives to use anymore. So we won't. We'll crack on with mystery. Dan's in Milton Keynes. Dan, question or answer? Carry on, Dan. So I think the question was, what's the most expensive thing ever made or ever produced in the world? Yeah. It's a broad question, which we've tried to narrow down, but depending on what your answer is, I shall remember those parameters in a moment. Go on. Okay. All right. Well, I believe this is general public trivia. Yeah. I believe it's the International Space Station. Okay. That would work, wouldn't it? Do we know how much it cost? They've just sort of done some assumptions based inflation because it's about 20 years old now. But based on the cost and the amount of shuttle launches it took to get up there and build the space within, the reason, about $150 billion. Yeah. I think I'm going to give you a round of applause. You know what they should have done? They could have saved a ton. They should have saved a ton. Of money. They should have got Chris Grayling involved and then they could have hired a shuttle company that didn't actually have any shuttles and they would have saved the fortune. Well, here. Maybe it wouldn't be one up there anymore, but, yeah, they would. If you believed hard enough, then. Have you been paying attention? What are your qualifications? Pop quizzes. I have a five year old who's mad about space. That's just part of the general conversation we have. I like that. And no one actually bought it off another person as such, but because its sum total would have involved transactions and contracts and commerce. So in the absence of anything, wasn't there a really expensive bugatti released this week? It was just to pretend that I know about cars. Yeah, sorry, going to throw that out there when I trade in the Volvo. Round of applause for Dan, please. There's a few calls from Milton Keynes today. Sorry. No one else cares, do they? I just always follow this stuff since we went national. Hazel is in Hammersmith. Hazel, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got an answer. Carry on, please. It's an answer to the question about why cat scratches are itchy. Oh, yes. Cat scratches are inherently a dirty wound. Steady. Huh? You always. Just. Because the wandering nature of cats, they're digging in the soil. Compared to a paper cut, for example, or even a shaving cut, you're going to be in a much cleaner environment than you are. Cats are clean animals. Before we get any complaints. But they're not as clean as they would be if they hadn't just been running around the garden. Exactly. So cat scratches are inherently dirty wounds. Dirty wounds results in localized inflammation as part of the localized inflammatory process. Hang on. You're reading this? You're reading this, Hazel? No. Yes. Tell me the truth, Hazel, before it's too late. I'm trying to bring it out from the back of my brain. Promise me, hand on heart, hand on my heart, hope to die, stick a needle in my eye. Carry on, then. Sorry for the false accusation. So, as part of the localized inflammatory process, mast cells are released. Mast cells also release a hormone called histamine. And histamine causes a reaction? Exactly. Itching, sneezing. Which is why we take anti histamine tablets for hay fever. And so if you've got a really, really itchy cat scratch, an antihistamine tablet would probably help. Certainly wouldn't do any harm at all. I'm going to ask what your qualifications are now and you're going to tell me that you are a medical professional of some kind and then I'm going to realize why you were dragging it out of the back of your brain and it sounded like you were reading. So, what are your qualifications, Hazel? I'm a nurse. Carry on. Do you work in Hammersmith? Yes. You don't know? You don't. Sorry, I'm being indiscreet. Have our paths crossed? I've been spending quite a lot of time at Hammersmith Hospital in recent months. Yes, I think they have, briefly. Well, thank you on behalf of whichever member of my family it was that was benefiting from your ministrations for all the incredible, important, hard and often unappreciated work that you and your colleagues do. Hazelnut? That's very kind. Thank you. Please accept this pathetic round of applause by way of gratitude. 1241 is the time. And there you have it. I apologize to the original questioner as well, for pooh poohing his inquiry. Of course, a cat scratch is more likely to be itchier than another scratch, because most things that have scratched you haven't just been running around the garden and chasing foxes. Martin is in aldershot. Martin, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Mark, I think you might think you might like this one. I just want to know when the first passport was invented. Obviously in kind of medieval, or going back to the roman days, you could just walk around and you could travel from border, over the borders and. And stuff like that with your trade point. Lord Copper. I must. I'm just thinking out loud now, but I wonder if it had something to do with the crusader. Yeah, I really don't know. Trying to kind of think about it without obviously looking it up. Hence why I don't know the answer, but I think rings I've got in the back of my brain somewhere. I've got a vague echo of having addressed this or similar in the past. So hopefully we will actually get you an answer. I like that a lot. The first passport. I mean, why would. I mean, who would it work like that? The first passport can't be. One person's got a passport. Nobody else has. The invention of the passport. A lovely question. Zero. 345-606-0973 speaking of the Crusades, you know that outfit that you often see mad people wearing in the context of brexit and politics? They dress up like a Knight Templar with the big Red Cross of St George on their front and all the chain mail. If you ever meet one of those people, whatever you do, don't tell them about the makeup of the forces and the people in charge of the crusades. Whatever. Because if they think they're anti European Union and they're dressed up as a crusader, the psychodrama they've got waiting for them when reality finally bites is even bigger than the rest of them. John's in barking. John, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Please, carry on, John. Carry on. Right. I've been puzzling. You know when we launch a satellite. Yeah? What dictates whereabouts in Earth's orbit it's going to go? And the second thing is you have to get planning for it or something like that. So that it doesn't bump into another one. Exactly. I mean, what have you got planned for the weekend, John? I don't know. It just. I really. You know, if you've got a rocket that's delivering it, does that stay in the same orbit or does that come back down? Oh, no. You're only allowed one question. So. Okay, who decides where it goes? I'm going with the planning question. How do they plot the courses of satellites to make sure that they don't bash into each other and blow the whole thing up? I like it a lot. It's a great question. I hope I can get you an answer. Otherwise I should be going home feeling inadequate and failed. 1244 is the time satellites done the cat scratches, done the expensive thing, done the dancing. I'm beginning to worry that old Baxter up in Paisley had a dodgy tin of iron. No one really recognizes the reality he describes. He thinks that since they changed the ring pull, if you give it a right old shoe. Gulp. You won't get any skoosh. Zero. 3456-060-9734 translations first passport. Is that pretty much it? Passport, satellites and fizzy pop. Anything else? Oh, and the crosswords question for Barry. That's in many ways my favorite question today. Well, what is the relationship between crosswords and copyright? Otherwise, I'm gonna have to find my friend Serena and ask her. Oh, hang on. Paul's in Crowborough. Paul. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Paul. Okay, so the question about copyright and crosswords, the fact is that a crossword is a. Is a piece of intellectual property because it's been created much like a song or a photograph or that sort of thing. Yes. And as soon as it's committed to a physical form, intellectual property, it gets protected under copyright law. You're a copyright expert rather than a crossword expert? I do both. Okay, so what happens if I like. I'm just looking at a crossword now. It's a quick crossword not a cryptic. So it's. And I could fill it incorrectly, but then I could use exactly the same grid and just change four words. Would I be in breach? Do you see what I mean? So at the moment, four down is actually. I'll go for knit. So at the moment, interlock loops of wool, seven across is knit. Knit. But it would also. It would also be because the I is not on a square that leads into any other words. So I could now change this quick crossword, seven across to something tricky, you know, like. Well, anyway, the answer would be not not knit. Yes. And so I've done. Everything else stays the same. All the other clues stay the same. All I've changed is knit to not. In fact, I could have snot because the k is on a is a non connected square as well. So I could put slang term for bogies. No, bogies is already a slang term. Slang term for nasal shmegma. There's a phrase you don't hear every day. So what. What's the deal, then, with regard to copyright? Well, the copyright law is there to actually determine whether you've done enough work to make it your own. So, for example, we've. We've had lawsuits, plenty of lawsuits, over the music years in music about whether somebody has stolen a song or not. Didn't the Rolling Stones end up getting all the royalties for bittersweet symphony by the verve? I don't know. But you mean it sounds. No, I love it. You're a what man? A Led Zeppelin man. Oh, fair enough. Do you know my Led Zeppelin story? Do you know my Led Zeppelin story? No, tell me. Oh, it's your lucky day, Paul. Pull up a chair. John Bonham's mum was a model for my mum's dress agency in Kidderminster in the 1980s. Wall. How cool is that? Seriously? That is cool. And I saw. I saw Robert plant play at a firefighters benefit gig at Far Forest Village hall. Wait for it. Before I knew who he was. Wow. Okay. That's a top Led Zeppelin story for you, James. Yeah, go on, keep it decent. As a lifelong Led Zeppelin fan. Yeah? Two years ago, I saw my daughter play with Robert Plant. Oh, you win. With Nigel Kennedy at the Royal Albert Hall. I can't beat that. Yeah, you win. Round of applause for Paul. Thank you. Hang on, stay there. Round of applause for Paul's daughter. Round of applause for Robert Clark. Oh, great work. Why? There you go. So you would actually go into arbitration or you'd take legal action? One of you would be arguing. No, I've changed it enough for it to be my own. And the other person would be saying, you literally changed the word knit to snot and left all of my work in place, and now you expect to get paid for it. 1248 coming up at one on LBC. 1252 is the time you remember that podcast Liam Fox commissioned. Spent over 100,000 pounds on it, and it was downloaded fewer than 9000 times. I think he might have been put off technological interventions. He's just tweeted this. Today I am in. And then there's a swiss flag. So he means Switzerland. Today I am in Switzerland visiting the World Trading Organization, which is very interesting. I didn't know. I mean, there must be quite a lot of confusion with the World Trade Organization, which is also based in Switzerland. They should probably have cleared that up before they. To be honest, if I was working for the WTO, the World Trade Organization, and they found they set up an outfit called the World Trading Organization in the same city, I'd be quite hacked off about that because it could cause great confusion. Maybe Leon Fox has actually gone to the wrong place. Or maybe the secretary of state for international Trade doesn't actually know what the World Trade Organization is called. Brexit. Hey, every time you think you've reached the perfect distillation of the whole madness, along comes someone like Liam Fox or David Davis or Nadine Doris to say, no, no, no, hold my pint. It gets worse. What was yesterday's one? Oh, it was Fox defending. It was Fox again, actually defending his podcast thing, saying it was good value as the presenter. The podcaster, who is currently at the very top of the UK's iTunes charts, or at least he was before he came on air, presumably would have been toppled by now. Then I can categorically say that I am better at it than Leon Fox is. I would also be better, I think, at being secretary of state for international Trade because I know what the WTO is. I know what wt and o actually stand for. Could you imagine a political figure embarrassing himself more by getting names wrong than a secretary of state for international trade, getting the name of the World Trade Organization wrong? It's a small thing, but it is significant. Can you think of anything worse? What could be worse? A political figure making an even bigger fool of himself. Well, where Leon Fox messes up, Donald Trump knocks him into a cocked hat. Here is Donald Trump paying tribute to Tim Cook. I mean, you've really put a big investment in our country. We appreciate it very much. Tim Apple. Pardon? I mean, you've really put a big investment in our country. We appreciate it very much. Tim Apple. Tim Apple, the chief executive officer of Apple, who up until that moment thought his name was Cook. Gary's important. Gary, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Good afternoon to the satellite question. Tell me what the question was exactly. Because as soon as I heard the question, I got on the phone. So. So you know, you know the answer because you are a satellite don, but you just need. You need to be reminded of the detail or availed of the detail before you can go all in with your definitive response. I'd like to think so. So if I'm launching a satellite, who's in charge of where it can go so that a it go? It does the job it needs to do. But more importantly, for the purposes of the original question, it doesn't smash into someone else's satellite. The answer to that question is a company called Intelsat. And they decide draw this kind of space junk is dotted about as to. And that's an international organization. That's a supranational organization. Is it? To which we're all signatories. Even if North Korea put a satellite into space, would they have to go through them as well? We blast that the sky with one of Donald's tools. No, Infosat does control it all because. But as regards where it goes, it's. It's demand, really, because you can only reach certain parts of the globe from a certain orbit. Yeah. So you might have to go in one or two hops. So that would depend on demand. So if you wanted to go from here to the states, that would be in the Atlantic Ocean. If you want to go to the other parts, you want to go the Indian Ocean. And then there are various points of the compass. When I first started, we. We worked in analog, and then it was sort of quite limited to what you could do. But now it's retired now, but now it's all digital, and there's thousands of transponders on one satellite where it used to be very, very few. But, yeah, I was involved in it back then when it all first started kicking off. So, yeah, okay. I mean, that seems fairly clear to me. International governmental organization from 64 to 2001, and it's in a slightly different incarnation now. John F. Kennedy instigated the creation of it. So I was just checking. I don't normally check, but I could tell you were telling the truth. What are your qualifications? Well, the company I worked for was company called Brightstone. We were the first. It was really, really was a great company. It was the first commercial satellite operation in this country and it was really small. We were there when. The first thing I was involved in was Lockerbie. We were there for that. When the Berlin Wall came down, we were there for that. We did things that people hadn't done before. It was really good, but then kind of got bigger and we got taken over. Worked for Reuters TV for a while and then Reuters got taken over again. No, it's good. You've already got your round. Of course. You were in the first satellite trucks, in other words. You were. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely, yes. And it's got you a round of applause. Gary, good work. I love it so much. The cat claw question, but I've got it anyway. I'm so, so pleased you've covered it well, it's of your field of expertise as well, rather than just something about your pet. Josh is in Warrington. Josh, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So, the passport question. The passport question. When is the first passport, do we think so? We think in Britain that the first passport was created by Henry the fifth. Yeah. And. And this was essentially two. So this is obviously pre war with the roses and this is sort of around the time of years. War against the French. Tennis balls and all that malarkey. Yes. And he only had a very short reign. I think he was eleven or twelve years, but essentially, passport. It's sort of misleading because there's a time when we believe. I mean, obviously port isn't like married time, but the actual french word for porter translates to gates in the passing through gates. And essentially in 1414, or might be 1410, but in the 15th century there was an act of parliament pass that meant that it was a crime to kill anyone who carried a passport signed by the king who was carrying out official business. Oh, that'll do. No, that's like diplomatic protection. We're short of time. Qualifications? Historian. Am I right or am I right? English lit and history masters. That'll do. Round of applause for Josh. And that's it for another day. And I'm almost on time to hand you over into Sheila Fogarty's capable hands. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. Thank you, James. Successive governments have typically leant on public satisfaction with the NHS. Whenever they face criticism of the NHS, they might not be able to do so for much longer, though a new survey suggests we're increasingly finding fault. What is the true picture to the Labour party may have unlawfully discriminated against jewish people. So says the UK's human rights watchdog the longer it takes for the party to actively rid itself of anti semites, and quickly, is it more likely that they'll be legally forced to do so? And straight up after the news, still with knife crime, but a very specific aspect of what might be contributing to it. School exclusions. There is a system.