Sleep paralysis - what's that about?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC talk about from the serious to the silly, astonishing piece of work done by Anthony and his colleagues there over led by donkeys, which I have now tweeted from my Twitter account. So either go to donkeys or Jamesob to watch the full thing. And it had been. Also, you didn't see Anthony, did you? He looks exactly like you want an investigative journalist to look like. He's far too serious minded for me to say that when he's actually in the studio. But if you were casting an investigative journalist, you'd cast someone who looks a lot like age. Anyway, just go and check it out, because now it's time for mystery Hour, which is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not available anywhere else on your radio dial. Not only that, but it's your weekly opportunity to win a mystery hour ball game. Christmas is coming and it is an absolute joy to play. It really is nothing to do with me, so I can say that without any fear of boastfulness. It's not like when I'm plugging the book. The board game is brilliant and you can get it at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK or by being my favorite contributor of the week. There it is. There's the competition. And it's a proper grown up competition. So I am now duty bound and indeed legally obliged to say full terms and conditions can be found at LBC dot co dot UK. So mysteryhour dot co dot UK for the game, LBC dot co dot UK for the t's and C's. Six minutes after twelve is the time people ring in with questions and then other people ring in with the answers. We don't take texts. We don't take texts. You gotta ring in, really. And when you provide an answer, I ask what your qualifications are. They don't have to be academic or even very serious. You might know what you know because you saw it on tv last night, but the point is, you need to know that you know it. You're not allowed to look anything up. In some ways, the celebration is as much about the myriad sources, the multifarious sources of knowledge as it is about knowledge itself. And in some ways, when I sort of was going through a pompous phase a few years ago, I know what you're thinking, when does it end? I was going through a pompous phase a few years ago. I used to reflect upon how this is an antidote to a world in which you can find out a lot of stuff with your fingertips. You can find out a lot of stuff with a device that is currently nestling in your pocket or your purse. So it's a sort of celebration of knowledge, old fashioned knowledge. Knowledge that is learned rather than merely googled or searched. But as I say, that was during a pompous phase, so we'll forget all about that. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Shall we crack on? I think we shall. Dominic is in bisbeam, in Lancashire. Dominic, question or answer? It's a question, James. I can't believe I'm actually calling. Well, you definitely are. Yeah, you definitely are. Either that or we're both. Either that or we're both dreaming. Yeah. Andy, Liam and Tom are going to be jealous. Anyway, it's about sleep paralysis. Like, sometimes when I wake up, I can't talk, I can't move. Like my whole body's just still and it scares me. How long does it last for? Well, it feels like forever, but I can only assume a couple of minutes or even a couple of seconds. But I just. I can't move. I try screaming and my mouth just. It'll open, but no sound will come out or anything. It's. It's scary. Have you spoken to anyone else about it? I've asked a couple of my mates and they say they get it, but then really never worried. But I just thought, it's a question for mystery and I really want to know. No, I mean, it's a thing. I think it's a thing, but I mean, it sounds absolutely terrifying because normally you're in a dream when that happens. You're asleep. Asleep. And then you give yourself a shake and you wake, but you give yourself a shake and you're already awake, but you still can't shake, as it were. Yeah, yeah, I'm fully awake. I'm the tv, the dogs, the missus beside me. And I try screaming to her to say what's up with me? And nope, she can't hear anything. Blimey. How often does it happen? It's happened twice this year already. Okay, but we'll try and find out. Should be. I mean, I guess the reassuring thing is that it is definitely a thing, but you want to know what the thing it is? Thank you, Dominic. Take care. Eight minutes after twelve. It's a nice start, actually. Sleep paralysis. What's happening to Dominic and anyone else who suffers from it? Luke's in Portsmouth. Luke, question or answer? I have a question, James. Carry on. So why do no London football clubs? London based football clubs have London in their name, but other cities do, and other capitals in other countries do, like Sporting Lisbon, Paris Saint Germain, Real Madrid. None of the London clubs do. I mean, isn't it just because there's so many? Well, Madrid has, I think, four teams in their top league, not as many as London, but still enough to. Maybe it's going to be about. It's going to be about the evolution of the clubs and the fact that they play against each other. So clubs grew up. I mean, I won't go definitive on this one, but just thinking about it. But it's going to be. Because you can't claim to be London. Probably in the earliest iterations, they all played against each other. So Arsenal, Brentford, Chelsea going, ooh, ABC, is there a d? Crystal palace is another c. Fulham is d F. I mean, d e, f. So they'd all have played. So you can't. I mean, it'll be something to do with that, won't it? I mean, you may well be right, but I just wondered, was there almost possibly a pact between the clubs that Nyo Navy agreed to? It was Woolwich Arsenal. Woolwich Arsenal. So no, that's not got any Tottenham. Brentford, Wimbledon. Brentford, Bromley. Barnett, you may well be right, by the way. No, I don't. I'm just thinking out loud. I love it. It's a great question. It's never really occurred to me before, but if the answer doesn't involve the fact that the clubs grew up so quickly that no one could claim to be London, then I'd definitely be surprised. But it's a great question. And also it reminds me that kid and Mister Harris finally picked up three points on the road on Tuesday, nightly. Which is probably as exciting to you as it is to me. Huge Tuesday. Huge Tuesday. Unless of course you're a dorking fan, in which case my commiserations. But you did do us in the cup last year. Ten minutes after twelve is the time Holly is in Bury St. Edmunds. Holly. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. So I work for the 111 service and I was wondering, when was 999 1st used on the phone as a way of getting through to the emergency services. I mean, that's a great question, but you see what you've done. Ironically enough, given that that's the number you'd call if you wanted the police. And I like the fact you've rung in with the question, that's going to be very easy for people to cheat on, isn't it? Well, I suppose so, but I'm hoping someone may just have an interest in. Well, that's what I now have to. Now you have put me in the role of having to be Colombo when they ring in and I say, how, what are your qualifications? And we have to establish whether we believe them when they say, well, I just happen to be a historian of emergencies. I was thinking, because with, like, obviously the times of Jack the Ripper. So. 1888. Yes. Back then you would have just gone to the local police station or found the local policeman on the street. And then when obviously phones were introduced, I don't think they would have had that service. Well, you'd speak to an operator first, wouldn't you, back in the day? So the operator said, hello, caller, how can I help? Or something like that. And you'd say, oh, hello, I'd like to talk to the police, please. And then I'm putting you through, caller. And then, hello, this is the police. Or something like that, perhaps, yeah. So when did automated switchboards kick in and then the emergency services either then or shortly after the 999 number kicks in as well. Why do you want to know? It's a good question. Lovely question. Because I just wondered it. I mean, as I said, I work for the 111 service, so I just was thinking one day, I wondered when. When the emergency services. So one, one, one is the NHS one, isn't it? Yes. What's the one for? Non, like, non mega serious crime? 101101. Yeah. 10. Is there. I mean, do you socialize together? Do you ever all go out together? No. No. Is there a bit of snobbery involved? A little bit. Is it a bit tribal? We don't like those 999. We're not going to be knocking around with the 101. Ers are all right, but I don't like those 999 ers. No, none of that. Okay, I'll find out. Try and find out for you. Holly, thank you for the work that you do. It's a crucial service. Is in Oxford. Liam, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Go on, then. Is there cockney rhyming slang in any of the world languages or equivalent rhyming slang? Yeah, it won't be cogny. Yeah, that's a lovely question. Thank you. Oh, it really isn't it? So, apples. And I'm just trying desperately to think of something, but that would mean that the foreign language, which I don't really know very well, would have to yield very quickly a word that also rhymes with another word from the same language that I don't know very well while. So. But that's got to be loads. Yeah. Shay's. But yeah. Yeah, I can't do it, mate. I'm sorry. But I mean, it seems feasible, doesn't it? Yeah, absolutely. I'd say feasible, but unlikely. Okay, we'll see how you get on. Is there any rhyming slang in other languages? That's. That's. That actually is one of my favorite questions in a long time. Not that there's anything wrong with the other ones, but just in terms of something that if the answer is as fascinating as it might be, then that question becomes an absolute humdinger. Thank you, Liam. Wendy is in Petswood. Wendy, question or answer? It's a question. Yes. First of all, I'm so glad to talk to you because you got me through lockdown and my mum's passing last year, so thank you for that. Thank you for that. That means so much to me and I'm very, very proud that you would. That I could have played a small part in those processes for you. Thank you. You did well. A great night. Onto the question. Yes. When I was a little girl. I'm in my sixties. When I was a little girl, we used to do a thing at school. We used to play this game where we would stand in a door frame. In the doorway. We would stand upright and we would press our arm with our hands at the side. We would press our arms against the frame, pushing outwards. Pushing outwards to the frame. Yeah. As hard as you could. And you'd hold that, if you could, for about a minute. Really, really hard. Yeah. Then you would turn sideways after you'd finished and your arms would float. I'm doing it now. Your arms would float up in the air as if you had no control. It was like as if you're doing an angel sign. And I want to know what does it. Is it muscular? Is it neurological? Is it auto suggestion? What causes that to happen? And I tried it as an adult and it happens as long as you relax while you're doing it. I was going to say, when did you last try it? When did you last do it? No, I did try it a few weeks ago. When I last rang to try and get this question in and I checked. I thought I better just check. I better just see. But you didn't get on. Yeah, no, that's right. It. It definitely works. I don't think it's even just. Just the door frame, is it? You can sort of do it in those various other variations on it as well. I don't. Let's find out for you. I love that wendy. Thank you. I'll try and get you an answer. And thank you again for your kind words. It do mean a lot to me. It's 16 and I'm obviously very sorry for your loss. 16 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We need to know what is happening with sleep paralysis. Why no football clubs in London have London in their name when 999 was introduced for emergency calls. Do any other language? This is a very good crop of opening questions. Isn't it? Rhyming slang? Is there any rhyming slang in any other languages? I can't think of anything. I haven't got the language. I wish I could think of something up the Pomse. Poivreus. But Poivreus doesn't rhyme with escalier. Which is. Anyway, it doesn't matter. And what? You know that thing when you push your arms out against a solid object and then you step away from the solid object and your arms fly up in the air? What's going on there exactly? Anatomically? Biologically. Physically. 1216 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 sleep paralysis. London football 999. Rhyming slang and arms rising. Arms. It is 19 after twelve. Sam's in Oxford. Sam. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Sam. On a standard like bath towel. At each end there's always a sort of stripe of coarser material compared to the rest of the towel. Less tower. Less tower? Yeah. Less tower. Like coarse. What is that for? Is it on all of them? I don't think it's on all of them. No, it's not on all of them. But it is on like a high number of them compared to, say like a smaller towel. Is it not just decoration? Decoration? I feel like it would serve a more practical. Really? You think you're supposed to use that bit for specific? Well, yeah. We don't get too delicate? No, we certainly don't. Well, I'd be surprised, frankly. But you never know, do you? There's. Internet's full of things that you have been doing all your life without realizing. You could have been doing it differently. This is true. You're on, so I know what you mean. I don't like Corsa. That's confusing. It's shinier. Really shinier. And it's less fluffy than the rest. Fluffy? Yeah. There's like a band, a band of shininess. A shiny band at either end. I think it's so when you fold it and you put it on the, on the, on the bath rail or the radiator, it just looks nicer. But I shall leave it out there for an expert. If indeed, indeed anybody knows the answer to this question. Sam, you may have stumbled upon one of the great unresolved mysteries of the universe. Let's hope so. Let's hope so. It's 20 minutes after twelve. Dean's in Shoreham. Dean, question or answer? I have an answer, James. Carry on, Dean. I'm also trying to redeem myself because I was on the show a few months ago and I asked a question about why there wasn't mouse flavored cat food and you slaughtered me. So I'm going to try and redeem. But that wasn't your fault. You see, there are people deciding what questions are worthy of being put through so you don't hold full responsibility for that. Fair enough. But this is really weird coincidence because I was reading an article about this very subject yesterday, so it's fresh in my mind. The answer is because when these clubs were formed they were named after the district or the area of London that they were from. So like you said, Crystal Palace, Fulham, or named after the workplace. So West Ham was originally called Thames ironworks Arsenal, as you said, Woolwich Arsenal because they were based in Woolwich and they were staff at a munitions factory originally. So basically, pretty much like you said, nobody, nobody wanted, you know, to call themselves London because of the. No one would know where they were because, I mean, partly because London's so enormous. Yeah. The closest it ever came was when Chelsea was formed. One of the names proposed for them was London Blues. Okay. And they rejected that for the reason, as I said, they didn't have the audacity to claim the whole city for themselves. I mean, they were actually, they probably would do these days. They would do these days. They were based in. They were based in Fulham and obviously there is a team already called Fulham so they had to name themselves after the next district, borough, whatever it's called, along from London, which was Chelsea. And that's why I don't. I mean, there are other teams in Madrid and I know, like Hetafe are in Barcelona but they're not named Barcelona. So you do get other teams in those capital cities that aren't named in a sense. And I don't know what the story is with, for example, Atletico and real, but in a sense, no club ever claimed to be London. No club ever claimed to be the London club representing the whole United and city in Manchester. Both think they are Manchester, don't they? So, yeah. Tottenham just representing that area of north London. Yeah, I like it. I think there might be a city of London football club, but again, that would actually enforce the point, wouldn't it? Because. Because it's such a specific. I'm not even sure that that's. I don't know. I think there is. I think. But that is speaking about a very specific geographical enclave. So it would actually fit the theory. Yes. We are the city. City. City of London. Not London. London. I like that. Qualifications. Read it yesterday. Yes. Round of applause for Dean and reprieve, whatever it was. A rehabilitation after your mouse flavored cat food question. Thank you, Dean. It is 23 minutes after twelve. Nick's in Richmond. Nick, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So the 999 service was invented to, if you remember the old ring, you had to de dial your numbers into the ringer and you have to turn the dial. I don't remember these things. My parents had one. No, I don't really. Yeah, it was quite. And if you get to the end of the circle, you should always hit nine. So if you do that three times, you go through to 999. And on your modern. Sorry. On the old touchpad phone, if you follow your finger from the five down, which I believe has a dot on it, you'd always hit nine. So you press that three times. And that's why it's 999, because you can't. In theory, yes, you'd be able to find it in the dark or with your eyes shut or in a smoke filled room or if you can't see for, you know, medical reasons rather than circumstantial ones. But that wasn't really the question then. So it's invented in thirties. When I believe it's when the dialer. Dial ups that ring is the rate the ringing actually started. So it's like the. Right. I can't. I can't remember what they're called, so I don't have one myself. But the ringing, the diet, the circle. So when you. In the third. So when the rotary. When the rotary phone was invented, we think that the 999 came in. Yes. Because he needed a single number. I thought, he's his. I mean, it's a bit broad in it. Late thirties, maybe. Late thirties? Well, mid. Mid thirties could be, couldn't it? What are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? Paramedic. So what, you've looked into it because of that? Or you get. Comes up in training or something like that. No, dispatching does, which is quite interesting to go through to VT operator, which is really interesting stuff. Because if you don't answer the. If you don't speak to the operator automatically goes visit the police. But if you call for the ambulance, I mean, the stuff is incredible what they have to go through. And you're one, one, one operator. What they do is incredible stuff. And so is the 999 operators, the calls that they have to take and stuff they have to take over the phone. Where's my ambulance? Where's my police car? Hats off. These people, they do a great job out there. Such little money. Absolutely little money as well. Speaking of others, I. I'm gonna whisper something to you, all right? Because I don't want. I don't want any more calls on this now. I want to go definitive. I want to give you the round of applause. All right? So no one else is going to know about this. So I'll whisper something to you and then I'll ask you the question again. All right? Okay. So it's June 30, 1937. June 30, okay. So are we sure we can't pin down the date, Nick? Can we get like a slightly tighter, more specific, because. Late thirties. Mid thirties. It's probably not good enough. It's not going to make the next round of the board game, is it? June 30, 1937. Beautifully done, mate. Look at that qualification. What a mystery moment that was. Imagine being able to just pluck that date from the ether in such a fascinating fashion. 26 minutes after twelve is the time Paul's in Highgate. Paul, question or answer? It's an answer. Please, James. Carry on. Paul. And it's gamma amino butyric acid and glycine. So that's sleep paralysis. I don't know if you've got me on the phone. Sounds a bit muffled. Can we. I'll try and get a bit closer. Is that a little bit better? Marginally, yes. Marginally. Go on. Right. So it's two chemicals in the brain. Gaba, which is short for the great big long word. I just told you, and glycine. These are two chemicals excreted by the brain during sleep. And their job is to keep you paralyzed during dreams. Oh. Otherwise you would act out in your dreams as though you were actually, you know, walking around. So people who don't have enough of these chemicals, they're the ones who sleepwalk or who do crazy things in their dreams because they're acting out their dreams. Gosh. Because your body doesn't know where it is. It can only react to whatever the brain is telling it. Yes. So if these. If these chemicals weren't there, you would act as though you were. What does Dominic have then? A surfeit of these chemicals he's got? Yeah. What? It happens normally when we wake up, the chemicals drain very quickly and you get a burst of adrenaline which keeps the body to move. But it's very common that some people, for some reason, sometimes these chemicals can be blocked through other drugs or alcohol or other activities. Right. But it's usually intermittent. Yes. Well, he said it had happened to him twice this year. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes it isn't and it becomes chronic and then you've got real problems. It's one of the things that I treat along with other therapists who specialize in this field. It's surprisingly common. It's really terrifying. And it literally only lasts seconds, but it feels like hours because you are paralyzed and you can't scream. You can't really freaked Dominic out and you fully understand why. Because it's like a waking nightmare, really, isn't it? It is. It is. It is absolutely a waking night. It's absolutely. That. That is the actual description. So I think. I think you've given us some hints, but I shall ask you the formal question of what your qualifications are in this field. Okay. Well, I'm a hypnotherapist and I specialize in sleep disorders and anxiety, which are always closely linked. So. Are they? It's something I deal with a lot. Why are they closely linked? Yeah. Because anxiety and sleep disorders, if you're anxious, you're less likely to sleep well. If you're less likely to sleep well, you're. Yeah, I was thinking specifically of this one. So this one isn't an anxiety linked one, but a lot of can be. It can be, yeah. Because often with anxieties, someone may be on drug therapy and that may interfere with the chemicals in the brain. And these are some of the chemicals which can be affected by that. So. Lovely. These things are all closely linked. So what would you advise if Dominic is increasingly troubled by it? You would advise him to see a hypnotherapist, would you, in the first instance, yeah. Yes. Because he can learn to a not be so freaked out by it. Yes. Just accept it. And he can also learn perhaps a little bit more deeper, more restorative sleep so that it's unlikely to happen. There's no guarantee, but, you know, it does. It can help. Oh, great stuff. Round of applause for Paul, please. Thank you. No, thank you. Lovely stuff. 12:30 is the time. And Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's not the hem. We're not stupid. It's not the hem of the towel, it's the band above the hem. So it's a couple of inches from the hem. There's like a flat band of shiny towel. That's what the question. I know what a hem is, honestly. Sleep paralysis. We're done. 999. We've done. Is there any rhyming slang in other languages? Adi's been in touch. He's had a crack. I'm going to be honest with you, it's not great, but, I mean, you know, points for trying. What's he going for? Manzanas I Peras. It's your escaleras. I don't even have enough Spanish to know whether that's close to correct. But it's not. I don't think you're suggesting that it's an actual thing. You've just done what I failed to do and come up with some rhyming slang in a foreign language that might be plausible. I suspect there's no rhyming slang in other languages, but if there is, I really, really, really want to hear about it. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need the shiny bit, not the hem on a towel. What's that for? Is it just the aesthetics? Is there a purpose? Has it got something to do with the weaving process or the drying process? Who knows? I just need to know and Wendy needs to know and so do I. Why are arms. You know when you sort of put. Put your arms out, push up. Push up on a table or something like that, and then you pull away from the table and your arms rise naturally into the air, so you've exerted yourself against an immovable object and then you move and your arm. So she does it in a door frame. You put your arms pushing out really hard against a door frame and you keep doing it for about a minute. Then you take a step forward or you turn sideways and your arms rise, apparently miraculously, into the air. What's going on there? Dave's in Burton upon Trent. Dave. Question or answer? It's a question, James, I suppose. I used to live in Derby. We shall adjust our records accordingly. Dave, how are you? Dave? Yeah. It said two words for you. Barcode. Yes. Now, is it like some sort of mega computer that. I think it's one word, actually. I just got one word for you, James. Barcode. Oh, yes, barcode. Thank you. Dave, carry on. Do they buy a batch of barcodes or, like, is there a mega computer that produce them? Because surely there must be thousands of products every split second. The barcoded. Yes. So do they ever get duplicated? Like crab sticks? Could be varnish or something like that. Interesting. Yeah. You wouldn't want to get your crab sticks mixed up with your varnish, would you? Yeah. They'd be all sticky, wouldn't they? It would be a very unpleasant. I don't know the answer to your specific question. We've done something on this, but many, many moons ago. Yeah, many moons ago. And it is surprisingly centralized. But it can't be. You can't. There's no way. Split seconds, though. You know, they literally. Also, if you came. If you brought something back from America and run it through a british tin, it's not going to come up with the same. So what might not be on that? So how do they work, really? That's basically. That's in a nutshell. How do they work? How do they work these barcodes? Lincoln barcodes. Lincoln bar. I like it. I mean, I think. I think it's an interest. I think it's one of those things where when we find out the answer, we go, blimey, that's incredible. Thank you. Dave, how you finding Burton compared to Derby? Yeah, we moved the business from Derby because you. Were you born in Derby? Were you good? Did I tell you that last time? Yeah, you tell us. Every time Derby's mentioned, you mention it. That's all right. You're making me sound boring now, Dave. Now, we moved the business from Derby to Burton on Trent. We sell fires and stove, wood burning stoves and gas fires and such like. Lovely stuff. Is it good to hear? What's the name of the company? It's Derby gas tech. But you're in Burton now. Yeah, but it's registered as that. We also call gas and stove. That's more like it, isn't it? You don't want to confuse people wandering around bars. Why is that? Why is that stove shop called Derby gas tech? I don't confuse myself. I bet it's called gas and stoves. Thank you, Dave. You take care and good luck in the new location. 1237 is the time Johnny is in Birmingham. Johnny, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. So I'm led to believe in this country we have something called policing by consent, which means. Well, I don't exactly know what it means, but to be honest with you, in other countries, actually, in other countries, I don't I don't think that they have the same setup. And I wondered what that really meant, because I've never sort of signed a document that says, I consent to being policed or. Well, it clearly doesn't mean that, then, does it? No. What does it. So, really, what the question is, what does it mean? I don't know that no other country has policing by consent. I don't. I don't know that for sure. But, I mean, is it something to do with the fact that, like, other countries might be. Have armed police, so it's kind of more of a police force rather than the service? I don't know. We've got armed. I mean, I know they're not armed, like, you know, everyone. They're not all armed, but. Yeah. What. So, yeah, yeah, all right. If the answer doesn't contain the words Robert Peel, I'll give you the money myself. But I don't know what the answer is. I don't know what the answer is. So we'll try and find out. Thank you. Yeah, I like that a lot. Thank you. Johnny, what does policing by consent mean? And is it just us? Zero. 345-606-0973 how do barcodes work? The shiny bit on the bath towel. Not the hem. Not the hem. So rude. Some people. I can't believe you've let this question on. It's called a hem. It's not the hem. Also, I'm not that stupid and nor is Sam, who rang in with the question at Wendy's arms. And rhyming slang in other languages, please. Please let there be some rhyming slang in other languages, please. Paul's on the Wirral. Paul, question or answer? Answer. Carry on about the question about barcodes. That was quick. Yeah. So barcodes are actually just a different character set, if you will. Yeah. If you were in on a computer, in word or whatever, and you can choose to want a chinese character set or western English or whatever, it's just a different character set. So when you select the letter a, rather than appearing in the form that we know what a letter a looks like. Yeah. There's a certain length, width of black line and the space next to it that depicts that. And it's the same for every letter and the number from the Alphabet, it's got a different width bar. So then. So you've got. You've got infinite variations then on what you can. Pretty much infinite variations on how you can write it down. So then if you wanted to use the word, you know, suitcase. Yeah. You. And it will show you what that would look like in the barcode. Are you sure about. Are you sure about that last bit? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because what your qualification. I'm not. I don't know about. What are your qualifications? Well, we use barcodes. How does the machine work, then? How does the machine work? Because when you produce them, when you buy, let's say it's a thermal label printer machine, which is typically what will print your barcodes on everyday items or warehouse packaging. In that label software, there's a drop down menu that lets you choose your barcode language that normally starts with the letters e a n. Right. Because different countries and different industries have come up with, believe it or not, their own variations of a bar, what a barcode infrastructure should look like. So you stick it. So you stick it on a product and then you sell it to someone who's using the same translating technology or same technology, and they can correct everybody who uses barcode reading machines, their machines. You would set it to say, well, I want to read barcode language, ean 28 or ean 29. So that when you're producing your product. So let's say you were the Tesco's. Tesco's might say to the company that supplies them with, let's say, pre packaged sandwiches. Yeah. They would say, when you produce our sandwiches, use the barcode language, ean 28. Right? That's the one we use. And so that. So, so the relationships only ever between supplier and seller. There's no central database, because you could see why people might have thought there was a central database of barcodes and you sort of get given one, like you do car registration numbers or something like that, but there'd be just billions and billions and billions. Well, I think that makes sense. I think that makes sense. Or your number or whatever, and I'll show you what it would look like with a barcode. Ean. Ean is european article numbers. So QR codes are the same kind of thing, right? Machine readable. Machine readable information. Really? Yeah, yeah. Why? Why? Pardon? Why? Why have barcodes? Yeah, because it speeds up. You can just blip it before you, of course. So it's scanning all the information that you need, what it is and how much it costs for in one scan, rather than having to look, read the tin or something, and then look up the price list. Yeah, it was a silly question at the end by me there, which is for which I apologize. Random qualifications, Paul? Mine. Yeah, in engineering, but no, but what do you do at work? You create barcodes that work for packaging the products that you're. No, no, I actually am involved in the design and manufacture of life jackets. And you need to put barcodes on the packaging. Correct? Yeah. Round of applause for Paul. I like it. 1243 is the time, Grant, in Southampton. Grant, question or answer? It's an answer, actually. Carry on, Grant. So it's to do with the cockney Ryman slang. Oh, go on. So, if I give you my qualification on this. First, it was because my dad was in the army, PWR, and played rugby against army and navy. And in the aftermath of the rugby games, we would obviously be in the bar. It can get quite abusive and quite insulting between team and friends, in a friendly way. And the reason I know that this is actually, this is real, is that we had a couple of gurkha lads from Nepal and a couple of Kiwis, obviously, from New Zealand, and they would argue with my dad, another english guys in the regiment, they would argue about the way that commands were shouted at each other on the pitch and then the insults that they would have afterwards. And then I can distinctly remember them arguing about the way that words were said and the way the words were pronounced and that came about that. My dad then explained to me that as he was born and bred in London, it was their version of Cockney rhyming slang, which is why it really made me laugh when I actually heard that. Heard the question when I spoke to your lady. So the Burmese have rhyming slang? Yes, they do. And the. And the Kiwis. New Zealand. Yeah. But they'd be speaking English, though. Nope. And that. In their own language, so they. Yes, and they would argue with each other. You're confusing the issue by talking about rugby because. I mean, because the rhyming slang doesn't only exist on the rugby pitch. No, of course, it was about the insults. That was where the main side of. Yeah, okay, good. Do you know any? Do you know any? Do you know any? Unfortunately not. And I did after I spoke to a lady. When I came in with my answer, I actually tried to. Sorry, excuse me. I actually tried to ring my dad to say, look, can you give me anything off the. Off the top of your head? And unfortunately, there was no answer. Even if there was, we'd have no way of knowing how rude they were. Okay, I'm going to give you. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but there is room for embellishment on this one. Lovely stuff. Round of applause for grant. I can make sense, but then it doesn't. Parts of it don't make sense. Why would you do it? I know it's not about slang terms, it's about rhyming slang terms. So you'd call someone something because it rhymed with what you really meant? I can't do that joke, can I? About the chancellor mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, examples of rhyming slang in other languages. We've given some points to Liam on that one, but there's room for more. We still don't know what's going on, but anatomically or biologically, when your arms rise into the air after you've been pushing them against an immovable object for a while, what is that about? So if your muscles are still pushing and yet you can't think of it operating in many other contexts, what is that shiny band across a tail? That's not the hem. Categorically not the hem. It's both bigger than the hem and not on the edge of the. Of the cloth, of the textile. You might be able to go a little further than Paul on the bar codes question and what is policing by consent? Sorry, I don't know what happened to my consonants there. Oh, boy. I must apologize. What is policing by consent? And is it only us? What has it raised in Pearly Ray? Question or answer? Oh, it's a question, please. I just wondered if I. If I bought shares in a company today for, say, 10,000 pound and tomorrow they were only worth 5000 pounds. Yeah. Where does my. Where does my money go? Well, why would a share be any different from an apple? I don't know. What do you mean by that? Or a car. If you bought a car today for 10,000. Car is wear and tear, isn't it? Yeah. And apples deteriorate. Well, no, I mean. Okay, think of another example. It's just gone down in value, that's all the div. I suppose the key difference is that it won't go up again. But in the case of a car. Actually, it did, didn't it? During lockdown, second hand cars ended up costing almost more than new cars. So just the money doesn't. The money doesn't go anywhere. It's just what it's worth has gone down. And you would establish that only when you sell it, just like with a car. Okay, so the money just disappears into now. Well, there isn't any money. There is a promise to. It's my money. I've just spent 10,000 pounds. Yeah. And you've been given a share, not money. So your share when you bought it was worth 10,000 pounds, but now it's only worth 5000 pounds, just like your car's worth less the minute you drive it off a forecourt than it was when you bought it. If it goes down, it could have been worth 20,000 pounds, which is why you bought it in the first place. But it's not like the finite amount of money in the world is being redistributed constantly according to shares, partly because there isn't a finite amount of money in the world. But, I mean, suppose I had the money physically in my hands that day. Yeah, and, well, the money's gone to the bloke you bought it off, mate, just like with your car. He's still got 10,000 pounds. But the thing you swapped for 10,000 pounds isn't worth 10,000 pounds anymore. It's not really a mystery, is it still, Ray. Okay, so think about. I think, like me, we're a bit mystified by stocks and shares and we think they've got some, but it is just. It's only. It's like a banknote. But inflation means a banknote is worth different amounts to what it was worth when you first got it out of the cash point. Yeah, okay, fair enough. I don't think you're happy with your answer, but that's the only answer I think you're going to get. Also, I haven't had a round of applause today, so, you know, swings and roundabouts. Thank you, Ray. Cheers. I'll take that, thank you. No problem. From. Someone's going to ring in now and make me sound like a right old muppet. Peter is in Twickenham. Peter, question or answer? It's an answer. James Peter Kirkham. That will be the police question, then, strangely enough, yes, carry on. And your money's safe because it all dates back to Robert Peel. Go on then. Back in 1829, which is generally considered the. The founding of modern policing in the UK. Although some will claim a little bit sooner than that. Yes, the legal system. We had magistrates and judges and the courts ordered things like warrants and such like, but they had no organized police service on the lines of the modern policing. There were watchmen in various communities, there were local constables that existed as a thing way back before that, but it was all a bit haphazard. We had the Bow street runners. Two magistrates in Bow street decided they need a bit of a leg up, so they had invented the Bow street runners to support them, they were more like court bailiffs. Got it. So private sector, really, in a way, individual private sector organizations doing a sort of security job. Yeah. And some were, you know, back in the days that if you weren't any good at baking, you all sort of chipped in and kept Mister bond, the baker, in business by buying his bread. And he wasn't any good at shoe. Almost like protection rackets, actually. But on the other side of the coin. Yeah. I mean, they were totally open to corruption and abuse and incompetence and never knows what. But you pay a small subscription and I promise to protect your premises. Yeah, basically, there it is. So Robert Peel sent out nine principles. Yeah. And using those principles, things like, you need the support of public, and that's where the consent comes force unless absolutely necessary. So it's consent on a. On a societal scale. We imbue this institution. Yeah, we imbue this institution with an authority. Yeah, exactly. Transparency, integrity and all those sorts of things. Which is why those were the days. Lots of the trust of the public in these days is so important because it actually eats away at the bedrock of our model of policing. The alternative is policing by consent. One of the things that gave him the impetus was shortly before 1829, there was the Peterloo massacre in Manchester, which illustrates the point that when the magistrates orders needed to be enforced in extremists, they call in the military, and there was a really important point. Civil uprising. Yes. And there were cavalry charges, I believe. And people died. Yes, there were. And that was the impetus he needed to get the support to get it through. As for who else has it, places basically, that model themselves on us are the Australias and New Zealands and Canadas and whatever. Five eyes. I think it was 18 people that died at Peterloo, but I will be. Was it? You're on Wikipedia then, are you? I'm not on this one. I went to the museum of the working class in Manchester. That's where I learned to say class instead of class. Yeah. And it is. I mean, it is. And also, I did a play called fame is the Spur by Howard Spring that referred back to Peter Lew. For some reason. I can't remember why. Anyway, I'm probably wrong, Peter, to be honest with you, but what are your qualifications? Just remind us. I'm a former detective chief inspector in the Met. I've got a master's in policing issues, and I used to do police training, and I always made it my business to make sure my students knew the background of where it came from, because it is absolutely fundamental. You're not wrong. You're not wrong. And that is really important and really helpful, actually. So policing by consent is a lot more than just some sort of pithy catchphrase. It's a fundamental bedrock of our almost democratic consent, isn't it? Round of applause for people. Absolutely. Thank you, mate. Lovely stuff. Always good. It's coming up to 1250. Neil's in Wokingham. Neil, question or answer? Point of contention, please. James Stewart's inquiry. Stewards inquiry. Is the correct. Paul's answer on barcodes had me. Had me seething, if I'm honest. I'm sorry, man. I thought it might be. And you gave him a round of applause immediately. Text. I went on to x. Formally, Twitter. James. Revoke it. Yeah. You are making snappy, though, because we're short. Make it snappy. There is one. There are multiple central databases. However, the biggest one in the world for barcodes is GS one. They set the biggest standards. You cannot just encode a barcode willy nilly. If your Tesco, you are cross. You are cross, aren't you, about this. Oh, this is my job. I do this all day, every day. Carry on. The barcode is comprised when it comes. Seriously, do not mess with Neil on barcode, please. There will be blood. We will fight. So, yes, carry on. So, the first part of the barcode explains who we call it. A retail brand owner who they are. So the first five digits, possibly six, says, I am Tesco. The next part of the barcode, if we're using an Ean 13. So the next five or six digits, that tells you what this SKU is. So either a bacon sandwich or some. Excuse me. Or some coke or whatever. And then the last part of that, we have a check digit which makes sure that all of the other digits beforehand all make sense to avoid any possible duplication. That's all managed by one central database. So if I buy a Coke in Asda or a Coke or any other soft drink in any other retailer, it always scans as a 500 mil bottle of x drink. Thank goodness you're here. The answer was so. And an ean 28 doesn't exist. Flipping at Paul. Paul. Flipping it. Paul on the Wirral. Well, look what you've done to my program, man. Please revoke that. Round of applause. He got right. Speed. Speed of reference. That is why you have a barcode. To avoid user error. Do you pay a subscription to the people who are keeping subscription to GS one? They allot. You arrange. No other member can have those codes. Therefore, whenever you scan it in one place or another. You always get the same codes. Go to producers. They go, yes. So, Coca Cola, yeah, so that was a Tesco own brand sandwich, but for Coca Cola would have the first six digits and then the second. There's no way I'm not going to give you a round of applause. I've got a feeling you'd be around my house by tea time if I didn't. So, Paul in the Wirral. It's a revoke. It's a revoke. It's a revoke. A revocation. Thank you very much. And this one is for qualifications in. I mean, just describe it. You've already told us, this is my job. Believe it or not, I don't work for GS one, but I work for Avery Dennison, who utilize this information in order for us to put on other things. So, a big, big, big round of applause for Neil, please. Are you all right now? Are you feeling okay? I need to calm down now after that awful answer from Paul. I'm going to give you a ball game. I'm going to give you a board game. Yeah. Seriously, seriously. Just. You know what I told. I told my mum to listen in. Well, there it is. That's her Christmas present sorted. Well done. Well done, Neil. Well done, Neil's mum. Take care, mate. There it is. I got to give it. I feel bad now. I actually offended him. It was almost sort of. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player fight. Rewind. Live radio or enjoy the whole show podcast fight, where you'll also find all of LBC shows to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcasts, whether made of iron or velvet. Rewind live radio on global player. Download it for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Sawbrick with you at four. But now it's time to fight. Sheila Fogarty. Yes. Stand up and fight. Stand up. Stand up and fight.