Hay scattering across the motorway

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time, and mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on the radio dial. Although at least one caller in the last hour tried to extend that invitation into other parts of the program, which is not necessarily to be encouraged. One of the reasons why Mister Yara exists is because on days of election, whether local or national, Ofcom regulations prevent us from saying anything that might in any way do anything. So it's just a complete coincidence that it proved so popular when we invented it that it's still here many, many, many years later. And long may that continue. In fact, it's even spawned a board game, which you can win if you are judged by me, and me exclusively, to be the finest contributor of the day. So knock yourself out. You can find the full terms and conditions with the competition element of this hour at LBC dot co dot UK. And on we go. Should we just kick straight in, do you think? Should we just start straight off the top? Luke's in limb. Luke, question or answer? Hi, James. Good afternoon. It's a question, please. I got distracted by the crescendo then. Did you? I don't know why it felt different from usual. I thought it was the 59 crescendo and that we were going to get to the end of that and then go to the news, but here we are. Thank God you're here, Luke. How embarrassing it would be if you weren't. What's the question? So it's about turmeric. So basically, I'm an early years chef and on Monday I cooked a batch of turmeric rice and after service I was cleaning down when I sprayed some degreaser into the sink. It hit the rice and turned immediately from bright yellow to bright red. So I was just wondering if someone out there knows there must be a chemical reaction happening or something, but just probably all. So the disinfectant turned the turmeric from bright yellow to bright red and we want to know what's going on chemically. Yes, please. I quite like that question. What did you say? You're in early years, chef. Yes, that's right. So from zero to five. Oh, how lovely. And introducing them to interesting flavors like turmeric rice as well. Absolutely, yeah, you're on. I don't know. Let me get the colours correct. Bright red. So from. From yellow to bright red. Someone will know the answer to that. And it was just a normal disinfectant. Not an organic one or anything like that? No, just a normal one. Right. What happened there? Six minutes after twelve is the time Ben's in Cleethorpes. Yeah, very helpfully. My young colleague has put a pronunciation guide for Cleethorpes on the board today, which is, how else could you pronounce? How else would you pronounce Cleethorpes? No, I'm not sure at all. So. Well, I did. My dad did pronounce Morecam morikambi when we were growing up. So maybe there's something there. Question or answer, Ben? Yeah, it's a question, James. Carry on. So my question is. So you see hay lorries coming down the motorway. So I was stuck behind one the other day and I thought, how much hay would they actually lose over a journey? And would the farmer be compensated for that loss? Because if they're traveling a long distance, I mean, I was stuck behind it and there was a lot of hay hitting my windscreen. I thought, over a long distance, this must be a significant amount. So I just wondered if anyone knew how much they were, how are they going to get compensated? Well, I'm not sure, but is there, like, saying, oh, how much hay does a, hey, lorry lose when a hay lorry goes up the road? Yeah. This is one of the daftest questions we've ever had on the program, really. I mean, a, I don't think hay is very expensive. B, if you don't. I mean, if it was expensive, they would cover it up in a way that meant that it didn't fly off. And b, you'd have to weigh the entire cargo at both ends of the journey in order to have an accurate idea of how much hay you had lost. Yeah, I guess this century turned into what is a bale of hay? But that's not the question. I get a farmer to explain all the things I've just said in a rural accent. In a rural accent, and then you'll be happy, right? Yeah. That's it. There you go. You're on. All right. Any farmers out there who can tell us why hay bales are transported in a way that necessitates, or at least involves the loss of some hay? Zero. 3456-060-9730 now it's happening. Yeah. Okay, now you like the question? Darren's been in touch. Say, I love this question, James. I've always wondered the same thing. If it drove for long enough, would all the hay eventually disappear? To which I don't. I think the answer is no. It's the flicky bits on the outside that are going to fly off, isn't it? The solid mass of hay, I think is probably going to be safe. And another one. Now Patrick's here saying, leave him alone. It's an amazing question. And then the punsters, someone will bail him out right at other Patrick. And he's clutching at straws. He thinks he's getting an answer to this one, says, Kevin. We shall see. Mister Yah never ceases to take us by surprise. It's nine minutes after twelve. Harvey's in Solihull. Harvey, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, go on. So I've been watching a program called Shogun recently. I don't know if you've heard of it, but it's based in Japan, kind of in the 16 hundreds or so. And there's words in there like shogun and taika. How old are you? How old are you? I'm 25. Yeah. See, I watched it the first time around. I was in the eighties. Yeah. How dare you laugh at me, Harvey. It's not funny to have been alive and watching television in the 1980s. It doesn't make me some sort of figure of fun. I also read the book. Have you read the book? I have not, no. You see. Yeah. James Clavel, I think, if memory serves, wrote the book. Anyway, sorry, on with the question. So the words shogun and taiko and stuff are obviously japanese words that would have been written, you know, when, when they were. I don't know how language works. When they were made in, in japanese script, when they're translated into, into English on the subtitles, for instance, they have accents over the o and over the I, over the o in shogun and over the I in Taika. And I'm wondering where those accents came from because we don't have accents in English. No, but we know what they mean. But we know what they mean. Yeah. What do they mean? Well, they're pronunciation guides, aren't they? So we do. We do have some accents in English, you know, not. We don't have those accents. They don't. We don't have the kind of straight line over the o or over the I. No, but it's telling you how to pronounce the o and the I. But we don't have those. Any other words, though, because we don't need them. But why do we need them with. Because Japanese. Because the inflection, the inflection on japanese syllables changes the meaning of the word. So if you get the inflection wrong, you'll be getting the word wrong. Whereas I could call you. I could say solihull or Solihull, and everyone would know that it was the same place. Right. In fact, as a resident of Solihull, you will know that people do call it both Solihull and they do. Yeah, but if. Imagine if there were two places, one called Solihull and one called solihull, but both spelled in exactly the same way, then we would need accents. Is that two words for shogun, then? My point is, when it's translated into English, if it's. If you're told this is how it's pronounced, it's pronounced shogun. Why do you need the accent? I can't believe the confidence with which I just embarked upon that explanation, Harvey, when the truth is I have absolutely no idea at all. It was convincing. Yeah, it was convincing. And I think it's with a fairly good chance of being true, but, yeah, it is something that just came straight out the top of my head. So why do we have on. Translated, when a japanese word is translated into English, why do we have what appear to be accents on words that are in a language that doesn't have accents in it? Usually, that's the question. Right. Translated from japanese script, which obviously, you know, is the same as ours to an English. So it says, show gun on the screen. And there's an accent over the o. I think he's over the o. Yeah. Or over some. Yeah. Okay. Well, why? Why? Why? I think that question is pretty self explanatory. I suspect my answer is correct, but quite often when I say that, I turn out to be wrong. Joe's in Maidstone. Joe, question or answer? I've got a question for you. Carry on. If he was born. If he was born blind, could you ever experience dizziness and get dizzy? Yeah, definitely. It's got more to do with your ears than your eyes. Dizziness? Yeah, it's just whenever I get dizzy, I find if I sit there with my eyes closed for a little while, it calms it all down. I'm literally dizzy. Spinning. As opposed to, like, travel sickness? Yeah, no, I know, but it's not really the fact that your eyes are closed that's helping you deal with the dizziness. It's the fact that you've sat down and sat still. Oh, okay. Closing the eyes just helps you concentrate more. I mean, we could test it now. You could close your eyes and start spinning around and then tell me whether you feel dizzy or not. Fancy it. Not at the minute. Don't give them strange looks. I'm going to leave it on the board. There's a curious curiosity about blindness that a lot of people have. I was interviewing fellow from the Royal National Institute of the Blind the other day about what sighted people can do in terms of being more helpful and more welcoming. And I suppose one of the short answers to that is to ask and answer questions where there is confusion. But I'm pretty sure from other reasons that have nothing to do with blindness, that dizziness is more about the inner ear than it is about any other organ. But we'll wait for someone to tell us the answer to that. Austin is in Beck. And by ear, I don't mean hearing, I mean some. I mean. Oh, I'm not a biologist. Austin's in Beckenham. Austin, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Stones on railway tracks. Either side, all the way through the. The actual rails. Thousands upon thousands of stones. Maybe it's a daft question, but I'm just curious the reason. Is it an aerodynamic thing? It's not going to be aerodynamic, is it? Well, because they stay still. True. Yeah, but it must make it smoother, the underneath, I guess, the train that makes it go smoother with. With the stones beneath. What's the reasoning? Why do. Why? Why? Yeah, why do railway tracks have thousands upon thousands of stones? Why are they surrounded with stones? I can't believe we've never done that before. I don't think we have. Yeah. I was just traveling yesterday on the tram locally and I just looked in between the sleepers. We're talking mostly, aren't we? In between the sleepers? Yes. Yeah, just on either side as well, that there are, you know, maybe two or three yards towards, say, the perimeter. There are stones lined up. I guess they could be sort of to replace damaged stones. I don't know. Well, no, we should find out. Why do you need the stones on the railways? On the tram, the rails. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. It's 1215. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1217. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Stones on tracks. Blind and partially sighted. People getting dizzy. Accents on english words when they're translated from japanese characters. Halos when transporting bales. And why did Luke's turmeric rice go bright red when he sprayed some detergent in its direction? What a mystery. What a selection of mysteries. I've had a couple of complaints. Some people think the questions are rubbish. This week. I can take no responsibility for that. Occasionally some people seem to think I make all the decisions around here, but I can take no responsibility whatsoever for the questions that get put through to the studio. I disagree with the analysis. I haven't. I don't think they're particularly. I thought the hey one was a bit weird, but then, of course, as soon as I said I thought it was poor, loads of you got in touch to tell me that you thought it was brilliant. But as Keith has just pointed out, we are almost certainly now going to be besieged by what we could politely or affectionately describe as trained nerds, enthusiasts. Thank you, Keith. So we shall get that question answered pretty quickly in order to keep our phone lines free for all the other stuff that we're doing. Diane is in Bordeaux. Diane, what would you like to question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on. It's the answer to the stones and the tracks. It's ballast. It's drainage. Stops the tracks from flooding. Yeah, but how is it ballast? It's the drainage. So when the water goes on, it drains down and away from the tracks. Okay, got it. So it spreads it around and it means that the bits below the tracks aren't going to get soggy and muddy. That's it. It's quite simple, really. Okay. Well, I mean. Crikey. Qualifications? I'm an ex London underground tube driver. That'll do nicely. Round of applause. Thank you very much. And did you relocate to Bordeaux? Are you in or are you in retirement? Holiday? Different. Career change? No, it's only. But I'm retired. I live. I cruise the canal to Midi and I live not far from Bordeaux, so. Good Lord. Living the dream. The best of both life, isn't it? From trains to boats. 20 minutes after twelve is the time, Diane. Thank you. Russ is in Bangor in Northern Ireland. Russ, question or answer? Question. James. Good morning. Hello. Hello. Carry on. Wife's a baker with avid one. She's never been on the bake off. But other than that. Quick question, though. Cakes and biscuits. When cakes go off, they go hard. When biscuits go off, they go soft. They've got the same stuff in them. Have they, though? They have. I've asked her, I checked with her before. I found I wasn't going to make this call without checking with the wife first. Right. Because that's how you actually get the legal definition of a cake and a biscuit. Because I think at one point they had different VAT assignations. I don't know whether they still do or not. And that is. I think that is actually how you distinguish between a cake and a biscuit. But they don't have. They can't have the same qualifications. Qualifications? Ingredients qualifications. Yeah. Biscuits have a levels and cakes have GCSE's. They can't have the same. I've read your books, you're a clever guy. Cakes are. Maybe it is. Maybe it just becomes soft when it's big. So what's the question, actually, in exact language, in basic terms, exact language, when a cake gets stale, it goes hard and when a biscuit goes stale, it goes soft. Yeah. That's not a question. It is a question. Why? Ah, yeah, now it's a question. You're getting revenge on me, aren't you? Absolutely, I'm getting revenge on you. So that. So why, given that we believe, because Russ wife has assured us, and indeed I've baked both cakes and biscuits, I can't, off the top of my head, say, but that's sugar, flour and butter or fat. Yeah. What about eggs? Yeah. There might be eggs in a cake, usually, but not in a biscuit, you see. So that might be part of the egg. It could be the eggs. You're right. I think it's all about the eggs, then the biscuit or the cake. I think it's going to be eggs, I really do. In which case the question will turn out not to be as exciting as I originally thought. Helen's in Lancaster. Thank you, Russ. Helen. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Turmeric is a natural dye, and a lot of natural dyes respond to acids and alkalis, like indicators. So, example would be litmus, which comes from lichens, I think. And it so happens that turmeric goes red in the presence of alkalis and doesn't change in the presence of acids. Oh, but see, that's a chicken and egg question, oddly, isn't it? Go on. Well, he wants to know why it goes red. Well, that's probably really complicated. Well, exactly, because it's the nature of the colouring, which is. I mean, I don't actually know which colour is in turmeric, but, I mean, it'll be something really complicated. Some big organic compound which has some. But I'm actually, in a way. You've answered the question. It's because of the alkaline. In the detergent. Yeah, yeah, in the alkali. In the alkali, sorry? Yeah, alkaline is an adjective. All right. Flipping out. Every day's a school day, isn't it? So let me try that again. It's because of the alkaline detergent. Yes. Thank you very much. Okay, qualifications? I was a chemistry teacher. Yeah, that'll do. Give a proper round of applause for Heather, please. Chris is in Gainsborough. Chris, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Long time listener, first time call. A bit nervous. It's only me. I've been going through the mystery hour archives. Sorry? The mystery hour podcast and listening to lots of questions. There's one from 2015 which never got an answer, and so I'm bringing it back. Are you sure you've listened to all of them searching for the answer to that question? Well, I'm up to about 2016. I listen to it all the time in my car. If terminal velocity is around 122 mph, how come an avalanche will drop at over 200 miles an hour? Now, this came up, as I say, 2015. I think it was about September 2015. And Professor Hal came on and said it was physically impossible for an avalanche to drop at that speed. So I then went Google, the speed of an avalanche and it was over 200 mph. So there was never an answer given. So that's what we want to know. Yeah. How does it travel at over 200 mph if terminal velocity is only 120 ish? Do you know why we never got an answer to that question? No one knew because I don't understand the question even. Never mind the rest of it. But I shall, uh. I shall put it on the board for you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And thank you for reminding people that the mystery hour archive is available everywhere. Absolutely everywhere, particularly at global player. Rebecca is in Seaton sluice. Rebecca, question or answer? It's a question, James, but I do need to apologize. You mentioned earlier someone phoned in too early and that was me. Was it? That's all right. It's allowed. People get very excited on Thursday. People get very excited on Thursdays. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's nearly Friday. That's why. Go on, question. Yeah, it is this. Why is it called why do we have England, Ireland and Scotland all with land in? Yes. And then we have Wales. Why don't we have whale land? The land of the Welsh? Yes. Wales, England, Scotland, Ireland. Why is it England all have land in, but Wales doesn't? Okay. Yeah, I quite like that question. I mean, there's lots of places that don't have land in, but not in. Not in the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, there's three lands and a Wales. Yes. All right, you're on. Thank you. Thank you. If you know the answer to that question, the number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 we've got that question from Chris about avalanches and terminal. Do you understand that question? Really? So that nothing is supposed to be able to go faster than that, but an avalanche apparently does. Okay, Eddie's in Epsom. Eddie, question or answer? Answer. James, carry on. So, in regards to Japanese. So you're quite right, the marks above characters determine how that particular phoneme is pronounced. Fantastic. In Japanese, it's obviously hiragana kataka. Well, it's obvious, but hiragana, katakana and kanji are what's used but fundamentally shun. So the character above or means it's a long o. And in Japanese, they show that character by using different characters, if that makes sense, to show it's a long sound. So it's a very. Trying to make a simple answer to no, you've done that. You've done a lovely job there. But it means that I was correct. This is the most important element of this exchange, is that I was absolutely right, even as Harvey laughed at me for being old. Yeah. No, no. Absolutely right. And it's the same with, of course, many languages, and Japanese is just a bit harder for us, of course, qualifications and been studying Japanese for 30 years. Like you, I used dual angle to Duolingo. Did you keep up? Did you? Crikey, I slipped up this week. I forgot yesterday. It's because I started ride a bike to work now, so I can't do my duolingo on the public transport. So all of these things, Eddie and I do it. I do it in. I do it only in Japanese as well. So that's showing off. Round of applause for Eddie. Thank you. Look at that. 1258 is the time. Kevin's in five. Kevin, question or answer? James? I have our question. Please carry on. I didn't say. Hang on, before you start. I didn't say Ireland was part of the UK. I said Northern Ireland was part of the UK. The last thing I need is to have some sort of irish flare up going on. I usually upset the Scots when we managed to talk about scottish politics. Northern Ireland is in the United Kingdom. On that, we can all agree. Back to Scotland, back to Kevin. Carry on. Okay, thank you. So my question is, right, so when you've got wind and snow, they last. It can last all day. A couple days, it'll just be non stop. Why, when it's hailstones, does it only last 510 minutes and no longer than that? Well, I mean, all day. Occam's razor would tell us that the meteorological conditions in which hailstones can be created are vanishingly rare and very, very quick. Oh, that. Right. And what does that mean in layman's terms, what I just said? I mean, you know, Hale needs a very specific set of circumstances in which to appear. And rain and snow don't. Like, think of it as a space between two brackets. And for hail, it's tiny. And for rain and snow. And for rain, it's huge. And for snow, it's somewhere in between the two. The meteorological conditions required for hail will change very quickly and they will no longer meet the requirements for the production of hail. Ah, there we go. I've learned something new to you. Well, I don't know that I can take a round of applause for that, but I can't think that there's any other explanation, can you? Well, no, I think you've explained it pretty well. Well, I haven't explained it, have I? I've speculated on it, so I shall leave it on the board. Rain, snow and hail is the shorthand for Kevin's question. And how come two of them last forever and one of them only ever lasts for a couple of minutes? The time is approaching 12:30 and Amelia Cox is here with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. Well, this will be fun. 33 minutes after twelve is a day the phones have gone south, so I have absolutely no way of presenting a radio phone in program while the phones. I mean, I'm still on the radio, so we can do the radio bit of the radio phone in program, but the phone in element of the radio phone in program is currently kaput because the phones aren't working. Do we know what's happened to the phones? No. No, we don't. Those famous words, those immortal words, engineering, are looking into it. Well done, engineer. And here he is. So, I mean, listen, you can tell by my tone that I'm currently quite ebullient and upbeat, and I can riff a little about the difficult situation in which I find him myself, which is, of course, unlike any other situation, because if this were not mystery hour, then I could return to the story that we were discussing, I could provide a little more detail about whatever the topic under discussion was, offer up my opinion again on the subject that was under discussion while waiting for the phones to reignite, and, of course, technically, during mystery hours, Keith reminds me I'm not supposed to read texts. I think we can have a bit of a moratorium on that rule for at least the next 26 minutes. Oh, don't say 26 minutes out loud, because then it could be. Oh, we're going to use FaceTime audio. God, they're good. Well played. Look at that. Crack team operatives galloping to the rescue while engineering is on the case. So, yeah, all the texts are working. Don't worry about that. WhatsApp's working. What about WhatsApp? It's all good, but we're going to use FaceTime audio. Now, Jonathan is in Blunham. Jonathan, question or answer? I've got an answer. Carry on. You see, such good quality audio Facetime, isn't it? We should use it more. Carry on. Jonathan. Yes? It's the avalanche question. How it can go faster than its terminal velocity. Oh, crikey. Now, I'm not an expert in this, but I'm an engineer. I know a bit about aerodynamics and stuff like that. So I started thinking about it. I think I could answer this. So I was like, okay, think about it. And it occurred to me that, well, thermal velocity is really determined by air resistance. So if you're falling in space, your terminal velocity is like, as fast as you want. Now, in an avalanche, the only snow that is experiencing air resistance to any degree is on the outside. All the snow on the inside is going to be pushing faster against the outside snow. And that's why when you see footage of an avalanche, it seems to be puffing over and forwarding from in itself. And then that inside snow becomes the outside, it gets slowed down and it gets pushed by more snow that's falling down the mountain as well. I think that works, doesn't it? Qualifications? I said I'm an engineer. No, I know you've said it already, but the rubric of the feature demands that I ask you again towards the end in order to play you a round of applause. So your engineering studies have given you the insights that you needed to answer this question? Yeah, that's a nice way of putting it. Round of applause for Jonathan, please. No, thank you very much. You saved my bacon. Are the phones back? Well, we don't know, so. Oh, this is going to be great. Owen's been in touch. He says, does this mean you will finally have to read out one of my texts? Absolutely not. Owen, what a ridiculous suggestion. Martin's in Epping, I think. Martin. Hello. Question or answer? Yes, loud and clear. Question. Yes, carry on over. It's air fresheners. How do they neutralize odours? As in, how do they work? Yeah. I mean, it says on a spray can, neutralizes all odors. How does it work? Is it just masking the smell or. No, it must be doing something else, otherwise it would smell like, you know, a downstairs toilet does when you've sprayed loads of air freshener around to try and get rid of an unpleasant odor, but all you end up with is an unpleasant odor. Dressed in air freshener, you can always burn some toast that covers up. Yeah. Or lighter mask. You're not wrong. But. But that might. Hey, hey, hey. We might. You might have just stumbled into part of the answer there, because you don't replace the smell when you light a match. You don't replace the smell of the bad odor with the smell of a recently burnt match. Something different happens from when you spray an air freshener. So the actual deodorizer maybe has a chemical relationship to the match? We shall find out. Martin, thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Deodorizers. And Martin, Glenn is in Basildon. Seems to be holding up. We happy now with the phones? Do we think the phones are fixed? Do we think they're okay? What do we. Do we think the phones fixed? We. Glenn. Glenn. Question or answer? Answer, mate. Wells land. Why is it called Wales land? I actually answered this, I think it was last year. Yeah, I do. I do as well, actually. I just can't get the staff. Glenn. So as I said then, you know, the word land doesn't necessarily denote a kingdom as such or a settlement. It's just a word that Yanglos Acton sometimes applied. And it just so happens, I mean, the word Wales originally comes from the oldest word, valha, which is foreigner. Yeah. And they applied it to all the native Britons. Oh, so it's a question of who named the territory. Yeah. And the English named, as they pushed the Welsh back into sort of the areas of Wales and Cornwall. They described them as walhalla, which is kind of a really sort of quite offensive term, really, because it was. They were describing them as the foreigners, but they pushed the Welsh out, and they applied a latin style of AI at the end. They called it Walia. And they did the same with France. They called it Francia. They didn't call it France land. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, you know, and same as Denmark. It was a Denmark, which means the danish border. So they didn't apply, you know, land all the time, whereas you think about sort of regions in England, within England, anyway. You know, you've got Snodland, Cumberland. You know, these aren't. These are part of England, but they still got the word land in them. So you don't necessarily need the word land to denote a country. Qualifications. I speak and translate old English. How many round of applause is that now? I have no idea, mate. You've done well, though, haven't you? You've been the pantheon. You've been in the all time greats. I think in the hall of Fame. The Hall of Fame. I'm competing with my Basil knight Wayne. Am I? That's why. Well, this is true. I don't. Yeah. The Basildon boys. Round of applause for Glenn. Thank you, buddy. Thank you. I like this from Richard, who probably wasn't paying attention. You say you did that avalanches and terminal velocity question eight years ago. Now, you thought that the person who asked that question was something of a mystery. It was Chris, wasn't it? Something of a mystery hour enthusiast. But he literally said that he had listened to it at the time and listened to the whole episode and listened to subsequent episodes, and the question was never actually answered correctly. So that was 2015. So unless it was answered in 2016, it was actually nine years ago, Richard, as opposed to eight. But I love that. I mean, you're. Crikey, I forgot what we did on the show ten minutes ago, never mind having recall of things. That's the beauty of podcasts. And of course, you can. You can rewind, can't you? And pause and all that kind of thing. Mark's in Inverness. Mark, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. Right, it's to do with the biscuits and the cakes. Yes. So with biscuits, they're always generally flat and thin, generally contain flour, sugar, butter, sometimes a bit of water, and depending on the recipe, may or may not have aged. And then the cake has pretty much those same ingredients, but nearly always has eggs, and they're a lot thicker, fatter. Yes. So with a biscuit, you bake out the moisture. You bake out the moisture. And with the cake, you actually don't bake out the moisture. The moisture evaporates, hence why cake goes hard. And a biscuit will absorb moisture because it's essentially very, very dry, and it just absorbs moisture from the atmosphere. What is the name of the process by which the biscuit absorbs moisture from the atmosphere? Oh, God, now you're asking. I would just say that's a. Would it. Could it be. Could it be osmosis? What was that? Could it be. I'm not sure. I don't know that that is. So how long you've been listening to the show, roughly. Oh, about nine months now. Yeah. See, I can tell you're a newbie because a hundred years ago, whenever that word that I just said to describe that possible reaction that you just described appeared on the radio, the hallelujah chorus would follow. But we haven't done. We haven't done that. I knew the word. I acquired that word with something different to reverse osmosis with water for aquatics. Yeah, that's the thing as well. But between you and me, when I used to try to answer all the questions, whenever it was a science question, eventually I would end up saying that word. And in order to stop me from doing it, we introduced the feature like a sort of form of alarm. Like a form of alarm. But on. On this occasion, I think it was actually. You got the word out quicker. I think it was correct. What are your qualifications? I used to work for a very large blue chip confectionary company that made twin fingered biscuits. That'll do nicely. Round of applause at Fort Mark, please. Thank you very much. Thank you. It probably isn't osmosis, but I've done it now. And the chorus does not distinguish between correct and incorrect usages of the. Of the word. But there's. That's one for the purists, that's one for the old school, that's one for the die hards. That's. Yeah, that's one for the 2015 listeners, when that kind of thing happened all the time. Uh, Ben's in Newark. Ben, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on. Ben. It's the answer to the hay straw question. Carry on. I've not really fully worked it out because it depends on whether the question was asked, whether it's hay or straw, because it depends on what the caller really wanted to know. Well, it was a fairly starved question between you and me, the idea that you'd get compensation. But let me think what question your best place to answer, then. Why are they comfortable with that amount of loss of hay? To be quite honest, it's a difficult one to answer, and it's a probably daft answer, because the set weight of the bale is determined by the farmer who bailed it. I've got a degree in agriculture and I've worked on farms for my. Well, last ten years. I'm only 29 anyway. But if you wanted to. If you wanted to stop it shedding, you cover it in tarpaulin, but it's actually. It's going to be more of a cost in terms of exertion and time to cover it in tarpaulin than you would make back from. From hanging onto the hay. Yeah. And it is actually worth a considerable amount of money if you. If you put it into perspective, this year it's just reached 220 pounds a ton and you can get about 40 ton on a lorry. So there's some money's worth running around the country when you see them, but you're never going to lose. What about this one, Ben? Dawn. If a hay. If a lorry loaded with hay bales. Yeah. Embarked upon an infinite journey. Yeah. Would it eventually have no hay bales at all? I mean, you probably would be somewhere near. Yes, yeah. It would probably take a good few million miles, I suspect. Yes. But eventually, especially if it was quite bumpy. So the bound, the baled hay was getting jigged, I think is the technical term. Jiggled. Yeah, yeah, I like that, I like that. I'll go with that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So sorry, it's not a good answer but it's a brilliant answer. Brilliant qualifications? Agricultural degree? Ten years on a farm. Yes, yes. Keep it in the. Good work. Look at that. Welcome aboard. 1245 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1248 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Everyone who we just hung up on can ring back now. I got told to say, well, not, not everyone. What? Well. Oh, sorry, I thought you should get them to ring back again. Oh, we're just sorry for hanging. I'm not sorry for hanging up on them. That's the price you pay for ringing a popular radio show. What do you think this is, some sort of gold medal accent? If my colleagues hung up on you they are sorry. Okay? They're not really. They're not actually are they at all. They just think that that's good manners somehow demands that you. They're not sorry for hanging up on you until they've already forgotten your name. Anyway, we've still got a few questions that need answers. Darren's in Plymouth. Darren, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on Darren. It's an answer for the snow, wind and hail so I'm going to focus mostly on the hail part of this. Hail comes from convective unstable cloud, so as you see clouds, think of them mostly as basically snow. They're frozen, frozen water. Yeah. As it comes down through the cloud it either remains snow or turns rain. Where it melts in a convective cloud there are like updrafts so the snow will come down, melt a little bit, have a more rain on the outer snow and then go back up again, refreeze and repeat until it becomes too heavy to hold. Refreeze, refreezes. Yeah. So the snow, basically, a snowflake comes down to be a snowflake with water on the outside, go back up again, and now it will freeze, come down, melts, goes up, freeze, and then the cloud becomes. Becomes not buoyant enough to hold that up. Yes. So when that. When that hail then falls, it can then fall as hail, or it might defrost again, become rain. But then if it falls as hail, it can either fall as soft hail, which has got snowflakes still inside, or hard hail, which is purely water. So, specifically, why do hail storms take such a small amount of time? Because they can only happen in unstable air. This process has to go over and over and over again. All the other processes can happen in air, which is hot air, hedging cold air, and just can result. So I was right, wasn't I? Yes. What are your qualifications? I'm a meteorologist in the Royal Navy. Well, of course you are. Yeah. I don't have any, obviously, so I was just speculating. But using Occam's razor, it had to be that the circumstances in which it could happen were much rarer than the circumstances in which the things that happened more could happen. Yeah. It's called the burger on process. A what? A one. The burger on process is what it's called. Yeah, of course. It's the burger on program. Round of applause for Darren, please. Thank you. Darren, what's it going to be like this afternoon? Depends where you're going to be. Where I am. It's looking pretty, pretty bad down on the south coast because you've got that warm front over us, which is really, really moist air. It's warm, but it's cloudy and it's foggy. You should get some biscuits. You should get loads of biscuits down there to absorb all the moist air. And then. Oh. Anyway, I'm trying to knit together topics that were never destined really to be knitted together. Lovely stuff, Darren. Take care. Sharon's in high Wycombe. Sharon, question or answer? Oh, well, it's a correction. Oh, of course it is. So, James, love your program, but you are a very naughty boy. I know, because you've given the wrong definition of osmosis. What is the definition of osmosis? It's all about the semi permeable membrane, miss. Oh. Oh, no, no, no. You never say semi permeable. Permeable. Partially. It's partially permeable. It's all about the partially permeable membrane, miss. Okay, well done. And because, you know, kids get this, pupils get this process wrong a lot it's only the movement of water. Yeah, it's hard enough. It is without the movement of water. Water across a membrane. Through a membrane. Partially pebble membrane. Whereas what I described was just the big biscuit getting soggy. So the molecular structure within the biscuit has not changed at all. Well, it might have done. I don't know. But there's no membrane. Membranes would have been broken up, so the absorption of water. There's a word for that. Hydro scopy. Hydroscopy. Hydro, is it? Yes. You don't know, miss. I do. You can tell what I was like at school, can't you, Sharon? It was Hydra. That's a hygroscopic process, I believe, miss, when the water is simply absorbed from the atmosphere into. Yes, you are probably right. I'd have to go home and discuss it with my husband. Qualifications, I usually said. Sorry, qualifications? Retired biology teacher. How did I. How did I tell? Remarkable something. What a moment. Can you make sure you're only talking about osmosis with the movement of water and not just any. Yes. Better late than never, Keith. Well done. Yes, thank you very much. Can I have a round of applause as well, Keith? Clearly a bit trigger happy. Thank you. Thank you, Sharon. Or Miss Dean's in sync. Dean. Anyway, question or answer? Good morning to you, James. Can I first come out with the cliche of a long time listener? First home caller. Of course you can. Yes. And I love your show. Oh, you're very kind. It's finding Findon. Yes. With a bloody ass on it. So the people that talk, the people that gave me a pronunciation guide for Cleethorpes have called finden, which I've heard of, and therefore would have pronounced correctly, signed un with an s, which I've never heard of, and therefore wondered whether perhaps it had an esoteric pronunciation. But we. Digress. Or digress. It's a question, please, uh, James. Carry on. Dean. Uh, the screw. Yes. Um. Is there a reason why the thread. You. To drive it into something that you have to turn it clockwise. Is there a reason behind that? Well, it's the. It's the thread, isn't it, mate? Well, I know it's the thread. Is there a reason why you have. It's. But if you threaded it the other way around, it would be lefty tighty. Righty loosey. But surely a thread. It's a natural. You thread it because most of us are right handed. You think it's a right handed, left handed thing? Of course it is. Think about it. What's easier to do to turn it that way or. Well, actually, it doesn't make much difference, really. No, no, it does. You've got a lot more purchase turning it to the right than you have. It's a lot easier to screw stuff in than it is to screw it out again. You think sometimes when a screw is kind of rusted in you kind of need that purchase to undo it? Yeah, I know you do. But that's a one in a million screwdriver moments, isn't it? You're suggesting you take. Put more screws in than take out? Yes, obviously. Obviously. Okay. Come on. Okay. Qualifications? I don't know what your qualifications are. I was waiting for you to ask me. What are your qualifications? Carpenter. Oh, is there a biblical diy? DIY man. Big toolbox. Big toolbox, dude. This is O'Brien. I do my bit around the house these days. I tell you what I'm doing this weekend. I'm putting together a bin hut. That's not the thing that it was called in the catalogue. A big bin thing. A big bin thing. But I put the question on the board. But I'm pretty sure that it is for the reasons that I'd describe. It's hygroscopic, I think, not hydroscopic, but nonetheless. Thank you. Dean. I don't know why we're taking a question at 1256. Well, I do. It's because our phones went south and all the answers that we had lined up got hung up on. And because we didn't apologise correctly or in a sincere fashion they've come back again. They haven't come back again. So I can't even remember what's been answered and what hasn't. But I know that Ross is in bonus and he's got a question or an answer. Yeah. Bonass. I said, what the hell is happening today? But I said, bowness Ross. Is it bonus? I did say bonus. No, I did say, do you know what? I was going to style it out but then I remembered that on global player you can rewind and pause live radio so that I'd have been blown out. Go on then, answer. Please answer. Is the odor spray question. Yes. So I think it would be down to something called enzymes or an enzyme cleaner. So basically they speed up anything organic can smell and they speed up decomposition. So they just make it die faster. Make the smell completely. You know, if you have food in the bin then you just leave it and you forget to take it out. Eventually it just stops smelling. I have discovered it grows. It goes very furry but it stops smelling. So it's essentially that it speeds it up and stops it smelling. Love it. Qualifications? Car detailer. I work with cars and clean them and polish them. But how do you know the stuff about odors, though? Because when you clean the interiors, there's sometimes very sticky, smelly things that live in cars. There has been used underwear and many things. I see what you mean. Oh, okay. No, and it does the thing it does. It's all about the enzymes, isn't it? Yeah, but vomit and other things like that. That never goes away. Never goes away in a car. But hang on a minute, Sheila, I'm sorry. You didn't expect. I'm not good with vomit. See him getting ready to do a grown up radio program. And there's Ross in Bowness. Chucking up milk is another one. Milk lost. The worst thing you've ever found in a car. That's cut. Don't, don't. It's a family program. But I'm flying by the seat of my pants already today, so go on. Oh, it's that. It's that is it? Thank you very much. Thank you very much and good night. Well, Ross in Bowness. Well played. Round of applause. I was right about the screw. Jack in Southam is on the line to tell me that, but it's too late now. It's all about muscles. I'm going to give the board game to the fellow that answered. It was Richard who answered the avalanche question, not because it was necessarily my favorite contributor, Jonathan. Jonathan, who answered it because he took it from the archives. He's answered a question that was from eight years ago. So it nearly went to Chris for being the archive searcher, but it's going to Jonathan for being the archive answerer. There we go. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on Global Player, the official LBC app, where you can also pause and rewind live radio. Download it now for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com dot. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Sawbrick. But now it's time for Sheila Fogarty.