Why do medical symbols have snakes? - 3 Sep 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to LBC, where things ordinarily take a rather different turn at 12:00 on Thursdays. This is, of course, breaking news notwithstanding, but there isn't any at the moment. So let's fill our boots with mysteries and, of course, more excitingly, solutions. This is the radio equivalent of those newspaper columns where a reader will write in with a question, why do we do this? Who is responsible for that? What was the first time? Where does that come from? What's the origin of that? Why, do what, where, when, whither, whence, wherefore? Why, what, where, when, whither, whence, wherefore? Any. Any interrogative pronoun you please can precede your question, your mystery, all that it has to be is not dull and not something that we can remember answering relatively recently. As rules go, they're fairly broad, aren't they? That's a fairly big goal mouth that you can take aim at. So you ring in on zero 345-606-0973 you ask your question and you crosses your fingers in the hope that someone else will ring in. Subsequently, on zero 345-606-0973 and provide you with the satisfaction that you need. I only say the number if I've got phone lines free. And I don't know why it sometimes takes us a couple of minutes to sift through the dullness. I never know how to put this politely. Michael and Jess are answering the phones today and I feel like a host on an airplane telling you what the I'm the bus. Michael and Jess will be looking after you today if you're in economy, and we're all in economy here. The point is this, that if you ask a really boring question, then we still love you. But we don't want you on mystery out today. All right? So don't ring back 30 times. Certainly don't write to management complaining that your question doesn't get on, because that's a bit like complaining about being boring. There's nothing you can do about it. We're just politely trying to tell you not to. And the same with repetition. So if it's a question to which only you will really be interested in the answer, then chances are you'll be politely invited to move along. You never know. So just just be aware of that. The guys have to answer, what, about 200 calls each this hour? I mean, it is just nuts. You wouldn't believe the switchboard. It melts. Actually, it's the busiest switchboard in town every single hour of every single show. But for this particular hour, it's truly bonkers. And there's only two of us, so. Or two of them, so just have a bit of respect. Hey, guys, should we crack on? If you don't know quite how it works, you'll soon work it out for yourself. And I will absolutely get a Twitter question on today for people who have submitted questions to be included in the podcast. So we will do a Twitter miss, hashtag, Twitter mystery hour for people who don't listen live. But it's a great way of ensuring that you can get involved even if you're only listening after the event. Seven after twelve. Let's crack on. James is in West Molesley. James, what is your question? Hi, James, long time listener, really love the show. Thanks, mate, appreciate it. My question is, why are the bottoms of clouds always flat? You look up into the sky and you see the clouds going up further into the sky, but the bottoms of them are always flat, no matter where you look. How do you know? Are you sure? I'm. Well, I'm an HEv driver. I'm out on the road all day, every day. And every time there's clouds in the sky, I look up and you can see the bottoms of the clouds are nice and flat and then they just grow up into the sky. But how. How would it. How would you know if it wasn't flat? Because it would. It would look flat even if it wasn't flat, wouldn't it? Well, I don't know. You see, you see pictures when kids draw clouds on pieces of paper. Yeah, you're right. Well, yeah, but that's. That's like mister men going up, but that's. They're always drawn like that. And like I said, I'm out on the road all day, every day and having years, and I never really see anything different. They always look like they're sitting on something, whether it be the atmosphere, obviously, I don't know. No. Like. No. Okay, so it might. It might be that the expert answer is that they're not flat. But that's an answer anyway, isn't it? That would solve your mystery anyway, but we'll go. And why the bottom of clouds always flat? I like that. I hope you're right, because I'd love to know the answer. Cheers, James. Drive carefully. Helen's in Tunbridge Wells. Question or answer? Helen. Hi, James. Hello. Hello. I. I just had a tooth extraction. My first ever one. It's not the medical hour. Clive does that. I survived it. It was a bit traumatic. Well done. Which tooth was it? My wisdom tooth. Oh, you poor thing. I know. It was horrible. Part of my recovery is to do salt rinses. I'm doing them quite religiously and keeping it all clean. I want to know why. I can have a plate of chips and I can put lots of salt on them and at the end I could run my finger on the plate and lick that salt off and go, ah, it's just delicious. And salt water, it just tastes disgusting. I mean, I do it, but. And even if you leave it in your mouth after you spit it out and there's still that taste, it tastes so different to the salt you put on the food. And I don't know why. Why would it be so different? Why don't you go, oh, salty. Lovely. Is it not just concentration? Well, I don't know. Because, I mean. I mean, I don't put loads of salt in my food, but if you do, you can get a really salty chip and you go, that's all right. It just sits. Yeah, it does. But salt water. Have you tried mixing salt with fat? Swilling that around your mouth instead? No, no, don't. No, don't do that. I was just wondering if the fat has some effect upon the salt, because we all recognise, almost impossible to imagine a chip that's too salty. But I could even dip my finger in the salt bowl and lick it and it would be all right. It's something about with the water is just. So. Why does salt water taste so foul? Yeah, I quite like that. And good luck with the tooth. Thank you. You're very welcome. Steve's in Maidstone. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, please. Jones. Come on in. I've been working in Ramsgate today and I've seen all these giant anchors on these big plimps from these giant boats from yesteryear. Now, we all know how an anchor works. You chuck it in and it sticks under a rock or it sticks in the ground or whatever. But how does the ship get the anchor back if it's wedged under a rock or if it's wedged on the seabed? They don't always wedge, do they? You're going for the underwater equivalent of the grappling hook. That's it, yeah. Which is. I mean, they're shaped to do that they've got the arms and they kind of fold in and then you can pull it back. And some of them are just bricks. Some of them are just really hefty, heavy lumps. Yeah. I'm talking about the big, solid ones. Yeah. So if an anchor has got purchase on something underwater, how do you pull it back up again? How'd you get it? How do you get it back? By nature? You're not supposed. It's a bit shackled to. Whatever. I like this question, but it can't be that diff. Can't we work it out between us? Well, I asked me dad if he. Dad's really clever, and even he didn't know, really, because I don't know if I want to have a pit. I don't have a pop at this. If it's defeated your dad, that's. I mean, we're playing with fire now. But what I would do. What? What I would do, right. I'd let out some more slack on the. On the chain, the anchor chain. And if I couldn't, well, first of all, I try and pull it up, and if it was stuck, I'd let out some slack and then I'd sort of sail off a bit in a different direction. I'd try again until I was pulling it from an angle. What it is fiddly. And also one. One can't really be sure of the maneuverability of an enormous vessel, whether or not you could just sail in yachts that the pirates. How'd you get. How do you get them? It's that picture of that one. Yeah. So here's an anchor wedged under a rocks. Done a cracking job as an anchor, but now they want to go, what do they do? How did I get it back? You're on. Nice one, Steve. We'll get you an answer if it kills us. 1212 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Why are the bottoms of clouds flat? Why does salt water taste so foul when salty chips are so delicious? And if your anchor is wedged under a rock or similar, how do you get it back on board? Again, lovely questions. Adam's on the m three. Adam, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. Yes. Great show, by the way. The question. I've had a burning question for a long time. Just not have the courage. Again, it's not. It's not medical hour. Right. So the question is, why is there often a depiction or emblem of a snake or serpent on medical institution institutions such as pharmacies, ambulances. Some british red. Sorry, not the British Red Cross, I believe, has an emblem of a snake. I've seen the red crescent on the news where you've got ambulances and there's often a snake wrapped around the red crescent on a red cross or even on ambulances. Are you sure that's a question. A snake. A snake, 100%. There's lots of pharmacies in central London as well where there's a picture of a snake. And I've always wondered why, hence tense the call. Really? Yeah, 100%. Well, I've never even seen that before in my life. Yes. Next time you see an ambulance, and I know not every ambulance is the same, but next time you see an ambulance in and around London, you will notice on their kind of logo a snake. And I've definitely seen it in pharmacies. And like I said on. I mean, the obvious answer is that it's a pictograph, so that it would be because a snake is associated with poison, a picture of a snake is associated with the cure. So you're looking for a cure for something, you go, but, I mean, that's just me thinking out loud. And that would go back to the days before everyone could read and write clearly. Yeah, I mean, that kind of made logical sense, but I was hoping for a definitive. Yeah, well, that was very polite. That was very diplomatically handled, pal. So what you really said. Yeah. All right, James, back in your box. I want someone who really knows the answer. More or less. Yeah. Yeah, fair enough. All right, we'll do what we can. Adam, mind. There you go. Snakes. Snakes and medical institutions. Why? How do you get an anchor back up if it's stuck under a rock? Why do salt water. Why does salt water taste so foul when salty chips taste so fine? And why are the bottoms of clouds always flat? And we can add to this list any question you please, as long as it's neither dull nor repetitious. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. 18 minutes after twelve. I'm being bombarded on Twitter with pictures of clouds and pictures of snakes. Oddly, he's right. There are lots of symbols of snakes on medical insignia. Why? Why? What is the association of with snakes and medicine and clouds? The question was, why are their bottoms always flat? But a lot of the pictures you've sent in suggest that they're not. But we'll leave the question on the board anyway until we hear from somebody who can take us definitive. Yeah, there's even a medic alert someone sent me a picture of their medic alert bracelet saying that there's a picture of it. There is a snake wrapped around a staff. I've just never noticed it. I've never noticed it. But often you don't notice the things that are right under your nose. 19 after twelve. Back to the boards. Nicholas is in Glasgow. Question or answer? Nicholas, I got a question for you. Question for you. Yeah. Okay. In the olden days, way, way long ago, how did people cut their toenails if they didn't have a pair of scissors or a nail cutter? So before mankind mastered the art of creating a cutting edged blade, you want to know what he used instead? And the thing that's made you wonder about this is not sort of clothes or food. It's toenails. Toenails, yes. How would you cut your toenails? You couldn't really get anybody. Would you get other people to. You could cut your. Your fingernails. Fair enough. With your teeth, but how would you cut your toenails? But you're not interested in how we cut cloth or how we cut food or how we cut through building materials or leather or. It's toenails. That's the thing that you're interested. Toenails, yeah. Would they get their friends to cut their toenails off their teeth or would they just let them grow? What? What? What? Where do you think this question came from? I don't know. I was just biting my fingernails one day and then I was thinking, what about my toenails? And. Fair enough, I just got a toe cutter. But then how did they do that without scissors or a nail cutter? They could have just used a stone. They could have filed them down, couldn't they? Okay, what happens? What if they cal. Dry in? Or. I suppose they could have used a thing. Well, how would they cut their hair? Their hair was another one I was thinking of. How would you cut your hair without a pair of scissors? You didn't generally. I mean, I don't think that short back and sides were particularly popular in the neolithic era. In all the pictures I've seen, they are there, right down to the backside. But even 200 years ago. Yeah, but I'm really confused because, I mean, sharpening stones was one of the sort of first things we did when we'd taken the next step up from being. Yeah, but could you actually cut your toes with. You could file them down, maybe. What do you mean maybe? Of course you could. Hmm. Yeah, I suppose so. Or you could bite them yourself. Some people are more supple than you. I can get most of my feet towards my mouth if I. If I sit. Right. Yeah. We're filming this, actually. Should I prove it? No, I don't think you should. All right. That's Nicholas's call. I may. I'm taking the round of applause for that. I'm sorry, because unless I've misunderstood the question, it's kind of obvious. Yeah, I suppose if you think about it, maybe I've worked, you know, get a nice rough stone and just give. You. Give your old tootsies a little file down. Jones, please. Thank you. Nicholas mine. There you go. Professor Martin Smith is on the line. Professor of robotics at Middlesex University. What's tickled your fancy this week? Oh, it's the clouds. Why are the. Well, are the bottoms of clouds always flat? Well, pretty flattish, particularly if the air is still right. And the reason is as. As you increase in height away from the earth, the temperature goes down and the pressure goes down. And eventually you get to a level where water vapor can't be held in the air as a gas, invisibly. And the water condenses out into droplets which form the clouds. So the bottom of the cloud starts when the temperature and the pressure have reached that particular level. Oh, okay, I see. So there would actually be a sort of explanation for it. Although I've got to tell you, Martin, I've been sent loads of pictures of clouds that don't look remotely flat on the bottom. Well, if it's very windy, then that will disturb the flatness, but they will tend to be fairly flat. Unless it's mammatus cloud. Now, you're out of my depth. Now, I'm just looking at some of the other clouds. I can see what you're talking about, actually. Yeah. Okay, so they're not always flat, but they often are. And the reason is that the temperature that causes the sublimation. Would it. Condensation. Condensation is constant across a plane in the sky and that's where the bottom of the cloud would be. I think. I'm going to give you another round of applause. I like that answer. Oh, lovely. Thank you. And it answers the question now, because he wants to know why clouds have flat bottoms. But the notion of all clouds having flat bottoms is a little bit more controversial. Not sure controversial is quite the right word. Simon's in Morden. Question or answer, Simon. I have an answer. It's for the anchor. Yes. Basically, before you actually put the anchor overboard, you have a secondary line that goes to a little shackle and hole. That's up towards the head of the anchor, and the line goes to the surface with a buoy. And so when you go to retrieve the anchor, no matter how deep it gets into the mud, no matter how deep it gets into the rocks or the sand, what you do is you pick up the buoy and then extract the anchor using the line. Why doesn't it get stuck then? Well, it's because you're pulling the anchor out backwards, so that however the prongs of the anchor go in, they're being pulled out backwards. So the line, the buoy, is attached to the bottom of the anchor, not the top. Well, if you look at an anchor, you've got the flukes head downwards and hook into kind of like a grappling. Grappling. Yeah. Right. So imagine instead of pulling the grappling hook towards you. Okay. You're then pulling the grappling hook away from you. Yeah, that's what I mean. So it would have to be attached to the bottom of the grappling hook. Yes. Okay. Yeah. I'm seeing it from a different perspective, but, yes. Okay. To make it easier. Yes. And so what you do is you pull it from that direction and it comes right out. I like this answer. What are your qualifications? I grew up on a sailboat for the first 18 years of my life, and I know them. Pretty. Pretty amazing. How come? What's the story there? That sounds fascinating. I was born on a boat and then my parents sailed, you know, throughout the Caribbean. And there you have it, you know, so I. It was just how my life is. Most people grew up in a house, I grew up on a boat. I love it. And it's earned you a round of applause as well. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That makes sense as well, doesn't it? The toenail question is one of the worst ever. I use my nails to cut my nails. I cut in with my thumbnail and peel it away. Thanks for sharing. Richard's in car. Short and Richard. Question or answer? If an answer, please, James. I'm just going to cross off the anchors and the flat clouds. What are you answering? It's the snake on the paramedic, ambulances and other medical. I've never spotted it, and I've been bombarded with images of it. Now. I've never spotted it before. Go on. What's the reason? It was actually went back to greek mythology. It was the rod of Ascaloposis, who was the son of Apollo, and Apollo was known for healing and sickness. So it actually goes right back to greek mythology. And where does the snake come into it? It was just a sign of healing. From the son of Apollo? Yeah. No, no. But why? Why is a snake a sign of healing? I never flung at it. Oh, mate. Oh, you're close, but I don't know if you're over the wire. You're right about rod of a skelepos son of Apollo. Should I help him out? My daughters would be so proud of me if I get around of apples. James, mate, don't. Stop doing that. Guilt tripping works the opposite way around. Well, let's try it. Look, what does a snake do? Bites. Apart from that? Think of its skin. No, a skelepos saw a snake shed its skin and then slither away. Oh, like rebirth. Precisely. Thank you. Learning has taken place and you've got a round of applause. Come on. I'll even let you keep my heart. It says 27. Nice play, Richard. Peter is in Chiswick. Peter, question or answer? Question. Carry on. If you throw something out of a plane where it's a cannonball or can of coke or whatever, it reaches apparently 120 miles an hour. Apparently it's philosophy. I was watching David Attenborough the other night and he was planet Earth. He was talking about an avalanche coming down the side of a mountain reaching speeds of like 250 miles an hour. Yeah, so how is that possible? I mean, if anything, it'd be hitting off rocket, it'd be friction. So how do you think it would slow down? So what's it called? Terminal velocity or something like that? The maximum speed that a falling object can reach. Yeah. So how can avalon. Hang on, you mean with the greatest of love and respect? Mate, you're sounding a bit iffy on the fact. Where did you get the original number from? Where did you get 120 mph from? I've just heard that all my life. Have you? It's not much. All your life? Okay, I'm not dead yet, but most. I didn't mean it like that. I just meant I've been on this earth for 43 years. I've never heard of 120 miles an hour being a sort of. Yeah, let me just check with the office. Office Jones. Does it sound about right? No, I've not heard it all my life either. And then you were watching David Attenborough and he said 240 miles an hour. 250 miles an hour. Yeah, but that's coming down the side of the mountain, which would be going slower. It'd be hitting rock and friction. Yeah. Okay, so we need to establish whether your memory is correct here. Avalanches travel faster than terminal velocity. And if so. I didn't. I didn't say that. David Attenborough said that. Yeah, well, you might have misremembered. Okay, yeah, misheard. I mean, it's highly unlikely David, Lord Attenborough has made a mistake on. Exactly. Yes. Not a lord, actually. That was his brother. But it was. I'm positive he said 250 miles. All right, we'll find out. Check again tonight, obviously, when I get home. No, you don't need to do that. We'll take care of it. I've got you back here, mate, don't you worry. All right. Hundred and 2122 miles an hour for a skydiver. And you think that David Attenborough said, an avalanche goes faster. How can it. How can something falling through space go slower than something rolling down a hill? Exactly. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. We'll do our best, Peter. 12:30 and on LBC, 33 minutes after twelve. Why does saltwater taste so rank when salty chips taste so fine? And how can avalanches go faster than an object falling through space? Terminal velocity. We might have got our facts wrong on that because it's based upon what we think we heard on a David Attenborough program. An avalanche going at about 250 miles an hour down a hillside. Whereas the fastest you can go if you're dropped from a height into space, is 122 miles an hour. I like that question. I hope we get an answer to it. And of course, there's room now for your questions as well. Stephanie, for example, is in Birmingham. Question or answer, Stephanie? Question, please. Yes. What it is, I would like to know if, when people are working out in the gym and they start grunting, particularly if they're pumping iron or something like that, does the grunting actually help with physical performance or is it just an expression of weariness, tiredness, fatigue? Does it actually improve? So you could use. Doesn't have to be the gym. Serena Williams playing tennis or something like that as well, would work. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So. And the reason why I ask is because one time I was in a class and there was a guy who was working behind me and he was making loads of noise, which kind of made me laugh. And I asked a personal trainer, he didn't really know the answer, but I'm just wondering if I'm missing out a trick, because when I'm in the gym, I tend to. Well, you could just try it, couldn't you? Just try it and see if it makes you feel better or lift more or move faster. I could, but I'm just wondering whether you actually expend more energy or burn more calories or. What sort of are we talking about here? Yeah, just general grunting. Well, like what, though? You're not going to draw me into that one. Yeah, so am, you know. What did the guy behind you sound like? What was the sort of noise he was making? Well, that just sounds like he stepped in something that didn't sound like a sort of manly grunt at all. I think. I think you know what I mean. I don't know what you mean. I never go to the gym. That's very hard to believe. If you see me on telly, ladies tennis players do it. Yeah, so, yeah, so you go. You let's. You do. You go first and then I'll have a go. Yeah, you do. That's pathetic. I'm not going to put your question on the board unless you do a proper grunt. No, I've had three goes. Come on, last chance. Make it count, Stephanie. Come on. Absolutely pathetic. You could even go for a. And you knew what I was talking about. Yeah, I knew. I did. Does it help in any way? We'll find out. I don't know who would know? We've got a lot of personal trainers listening, but we'll try and find out. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Be careful in the gym, though. A lot of people get injured when they're exercising. Andy's in St. Margaret's. Andy, question or answer? Hi there, James. Question for you. Yes, I was watching my favourite tv show, Sunday night, Dragon's Den, and it occurred to me that each dragon has an enormous pile of cash in front of them. And I want to know whether or not that is actually real cash. Just in the studio. In the studio now. But my mate of mine is the studio manager, used to be the studio manager on that, so I. Do you know what I'll do? I'll actually text him now. Okay. What's wrong? Oh, I was hoping we might get a few calls on it. No, we'll do that as well. I'll do that as well. Flip it. You just offered to text a close personal friend while live on the radio to get you an answer to your mystery, our question. And you're flipping, moaning. You're gonna take credit for that? You're gonna give yourself a round of applause on you. Well, I think you want an answer or not. Or an argument. Okay, I'll take the answer. Well, I'll text him. Sorry. That's all right. No, don't worry. I mean, getting gratitude is. I shouldn't have said that. It's your problem, not my mate. It's fine. I'll text him. He was the. He was the floor manager on O'Brien as well, so he's an old, old friend of mine. Okay. Is the cash just doing it now? His name's Will, if you're wondering, is he's also the floor manager on loose women. He's one of the busiest floor managers in the country, actually. Is the cash in dragons den real? Yeah, yeah. Is the cash in dragons den real? All right, mate, how are you? I better put in a little greeting. Otherwise it'll just look weird, won't it? And an emoji somewhere I can't go emojis. My phone's so old. Oh, okay. I know. Who's the cat? Right, there you go. I'll see what I can do. But the phone lines are open as well. It's just in case. That's like belt and braces, Andy. That's like safety net. That's like, got your back. Just in case the calls don't come through. Yeah. Good effort. Why do you want to know? Oh, well, if he could send me the address of the studio and what sort of security they have. I did a tv show. Was. You're. You're australian, right? Far from it, Mark. Where are you from? New Zealand. Oh, I always do. Why is it every single person I ask if they're australian comes from New Zealand when the odds must be on my side? You'd be much more sorry about that. Better off just asking me where I'm from. Well, making a presumption. Yeah. You've been schooling me here, New Zealand. So you probably didn't watch the night with O'Brien on Anglia television about 15 years ago. Probably didn't reach New Zealand, that show. I can't remember what the syndication. I don't remember what the syndicate. Because there used to be a silver. A silver horse, a knight on a horse was the insignia of one of the ITV regions and it was worth about 330,000 pounds. And they used it on a tv show that I did and the statue got a security guard, but I didn't. Well, there you go. They were guarding the furniture. Yeah, it is. And it'll be the same with that place. So if it is real money, it'll be a lot more closely guarded than Duncan Bannatyne or whatever his name is. I shall get you an answer. Or at least I shall try. Is the. Is the money on the dragons den? Piles real money. Zero 345-606-0973 Lawrence is in Kingston. Question or answer? It's an answer. Yes, it's an answer to the question. Why does an avalanche move quicker than, say, a cannonball falling? Good luck. The reason is because if you think about it, an avalanche is actually tons of tiny little bits of snow. And that's why it acts like a liquid when it. That's why it covers people. And because it's so small, it has lower resist through the air, has a lower. It acts on less air so it can move quicker. It's perfectly possible that you've just answered the question, but I personally am not quite sure what you just said. Okay, do we know for a fact that he was talking about snowy avalanches? Because you can get avalanches on dry mountains as well. Well, you can, but generally we're thinking skiing disasters, aren't we? We're thinking avalanche. All right, so that's a given. Have another crack. Just speak to me as if I'm incredibly stupid. It should be quite easy. Okay, imagine a cannonball. Imagine you've got a cannonball that's 50 cm in diameter. It's 50 cm wide. Yeah. Okay. And when you drop it, it has. It's got quite a large surface area. Drags on a lot of air. Yeah. It has to push a lot of air out the way. However, if you think about a piece of like a little ball of snow that's tiny, say half a centimeter in diameter. Okay. That has to push less air out the way. But if I dropped a marble out of a plane, it would reach the same maximum speed as a cannonball. Okay. Wouldn't it? Well, actually, there would be slight differences. It wouldn't reach the identical speed because also weight comes into it. Air resistance. Air resistance, but also weight. You're doing very well. But I can see there's a professor on the horizon. But before that, Shane's in Camden. Shane, how's Lawrence doing? Not too bad. I think you get the general gist of it. But the question in the first place is rather vague, so. Yes, it was. But we're working on the presumption that he meant a snowy mountain, an avalanche in snow. Oh, he's gone. We're back to Lawrence. I've got a professor on the. I've got Professor Hal Lawrence. But I don't know if I sort of sense you're so close that we might not need to reach for academic verification on this. All right, stay there, Lawrence. Professor Howe, what have you got? The current question that's being answered yeah, yeah. Come on, quick. Terminal velocity, when the up thrust of the medium balances the force of gravity going down. So think about a beach ball falling beside a cannonball. The cannonball's gonna be much faster. Stay there. Stay there. How? Lawrence, you needed phrases like upthrust and stuff like that, mate. You didn't have enough fancy language. Oh, I'm sorry. But then I told you to speak to me as if I was incredibly stupid, didn't I? Yeah, so that was my fault. Is Lawrence right? Professor Howe? No, he's wrong. No, he's not wrong. Don't be so mean. No, you asked me a direct question with a yes no answer. Why is he wrong? How is he? He just didn't use the word upthrust. He got it right. He just said there's more resistance. Okay. An avalanche is not anything like a liquid in terms, it's a big, solid lump of stuff going down a 45 degree angle, which means it's the sign of gravity, not gravity itself. It's half gravity pushing it down. And I'm convinced that the original caller just misheard the numbers. So you don't think it does go faster? No, not at all. Well, that doesn't make much sense, Lawrence. You think it does? Well, yes. You realize you're arguing with the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, don't you? No pressure. Well, that hasn't stopped me before. No, carry on. Well, no, I just. If. Well, if I'm completely wrong, then fair enough. But, you know, if words you'll never hear me say. If the original question. If the person who asked the original question heard these numbers. Right, right. Then the only way I can see that you get to an answer would be that the snow has less air resistance, but it has a high amount of weight. Because if you can't go faster than something falling straight through space, it just can't. Well, no, falling through space, that's different. I think he misheard the question. Laurence, you're not going to get around applause, but you have my love and affection, okay? Oh, I thought that might be quite a decent consolation price. Clearly not, Professor Howe. You presumably are expecting a round of applause. Well, I never expected. It's always an unexpected bonus. But you were respecting. You're rejecting the parameters of the question. There's no way that an avalanche can go faster than 122 miles an hour. Um, imagine. Can it go faster than an anvil falling from an airplane? Of course it can't. It can't, can it? No, it just can't. I can't believe we've wasted so much time on this. It's all Lawrence's fault. No, sorry. Give hell around. Are you back from your holidays yet? Yes. I'm delighted. I'm truly delighted to be back from talking. It's 1245 hours with James O'Brien on LBC. It's eleven minutes to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where most of the questions have actually been answered. I don't know. I've had a reply of my friend who's the floor manager on Dragon's Den, but I don't know if it's true. But then why did I bother texting him in the first place? I'm not going to believe the answer from the actual floor manager and a few of you pointing out that I've broken my own rules. I've broken the rules of mystery hour by sort of consulting an outside source. We'll leave it there, see what happens. What else needs an answer at the moment? Why do we grunt in the gym? Does it actually have any beneficial effect upon our workout, our performance, our exercise? And the salt question? I thought that would be an easy one. Why is salt water so foul when salty chips are so fine? Sam's in Twickenham. Sam, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. I have a question. Carry on, Sam. Well, I'm a big fan of space exploration and stuff. I think a lot of people are fascinated by it. But a lot of the photos and the cameras that NASA use are in black and white and they used it on the old Mars missions. There was controversy there because they changed the color and people debated whether that was the right color. Curiosity. The rover they have at the moment has some color cameras, but there's also a lot in black and white. So I was wondering why, if NASA has billions and billions, aren't they using color cameras by now? I like that. It's probably obviously something scientific. Perishability of color film or something like that. I don't know. Yes. It shouldn't really matter, should? It's just broadcasting images back to Earth. Big. Do you need a much bigger camera for color? Can't see why, can you? I have no idea. I like that. Is there much color in space? Is that a really stupid question? Well, the planet Mars is red. Jones said that in my ear. I've got. No, no. Well, Jones said that in my ear and I said it out loud. Every time I do that, I end up sounding like a complete doofus. It's called the red planet. You muppet. Exactly. And you've got Jupiter and stuff. They're all coloured. You've got those big gas clouds. Although, again, I think they changed the color for those. Okay, so why does NASA use so many black and white pictures? Yeah, why not color? Why isn't everything in color? I like that. I hope we've got time for it. So, 1251. Come on, pile in now with an answer to Sam's question. Zero. 345-606-0973 Alex is in Finchley. Alex, question or answer? Answer. I'm hoping. Come on, Alex. Man, I'm nervous. Don't be. It's only me. So the gym noises. Yeah. So you can base it on principles of core generated power with everything from abdominal muscles, transverse muscles. So when you exhale with force, you generate more power through your core, which will give more stability and strength to the actions you're performing. Yes. And if you try to breathe out sharply when you're doing things like weightlifting or sport, you will generally make a noise. And to be honest, a lot of the gym culture have embraced that noise because there's an association of strength with noise. It's like a massive exhale, then you're just clearing your lungs as quickly as possible. Exactly. And you use it with things like kiai in martial arts, where they'll intentionally instruct noises to be made when you punch or. Yes, things like what we call a valsalva technique, where you intentionally hold your breath until you get to the point where you need to exert and then sharply breathe out. So a couple of things in addition to what you're saying. Sarah Donovan says a grunt is just a big exhale. That's all. It helps with muscle movement and that's from an ex pro tennis player. So she knows of what she speaks. And Chris, who's a personal trainer, talks about hydraulic amplifier effect the strain on your trunk and diaphragm. It can take your breath away. So you need a forceful exhalation to sort of replace it as soon as possible. Yeah. They're both solid, but, yeah. The power generation from a sharp exhale will brace your core to a point. Yeah. And the noise then becomes a habit. You could do it silently, but people prefer not to. And it's also quite intimidating, you know. Anish, what's the chop? Sharapova. Maria Sharapova at the other end of the court can put you right off your stroke. Yeah. Azarenka is qualifications. Alex, personal trainer of eight years and now run gym. Nice play. Round of applause for Alec. What's the name of the gym? It's the factory fitness and dance centre, just past crouch end. There you go. Well played. Free advert as well. What's not to like? Fatima's in Sudbury. Fatima. Question or answer? An answer. Carry on, Fatima. It's an answer to the question about the salt. When it's on the chips, you can have it. Or you could dip your finger on the salt and it wouldn't taste so bad. But in the water. Test birth. The reason why is because of the minerals in the water. If you do the same thing, put it on a cucumber or a lettuce where one of those vegetables that has more quantity of water in them, the taste would still taste bad. The same as putting it in the water. So it's the minerals in the water that intensifies the taste of the salt, really? Yes. But you need to put salt on salad. Not as much as you do on chips. Yes. So if you put more on the salad, you would not be able to eat it. But if you put more on the chips, you can still eat it because the potato, when you fry it, the water is already taken out on the process of frying. But if you put it on the raw water makes salt saltier is what you're telling us. Yes. It just doesn't sound likely. But all of your explanation sounds perfect. Perfectly plausible. What are your qualifications? A Mother. I was hoping you're going to say something a little bit more academical than that. Mother. Water makes salt saltier. I can't accept that as an answer. You have to. Because it's the minerals in the water? Because the water has a lot of minerals. Honestly? Yes. It's not. That doesn't make you sound more authoritative. Minerals and everything in the water. If you put. If you take a water that is filtered and stripped of all the natural minerals of the water and put salt in it and put a normal tap water on the salt, it will not taste the. It will not be the same rubbish. Yes, absolutely. I tell you what, I've heard some nonsense on this hour, but that takes the absolute. Get your own round. You can applaud yourself. You would not get an answer. Shut the front door. You are not getting a round of applause for suggesting that water makes salt saltier. Yes, it does. No, it doesn't. Okay. Saltier than salt. Water makes salt saltier than salties. Just use some fancy language, say some clever things. I can't give you a round of applause, Fatima. I'm sorry. I get a better answer, then I'll accept it. Yeah. All right. Same here. If I get a better answer, they'll get a round of applause. But you're not having that, Scott. You got even. You could have just said something like electrolytes or something. I don't know. Marks or osmosis. Marks in Macclesfield. Mark. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, mate. It's the answer to the dragon's Den. Is the money real qualifications? I was on the program three years ago. What were you pitching? I was pitching my company, bionic gloves. Well played. So, yeah, during filming. It's not a continual filming cycle, so you get breaks. And while I was up talking to Peter Jones, his money was on the table, so I picked some up. Did you. Did they go? Did they back you? I did. I got an investment offer of Theo and Deborah. Did you take it? I didn't take it in the end. No, it didn't. We couldn't sort of get the deal right. I've often found it. I've often thought it's very much skewed in their favor on that program. I don't like you. I don't watch it very often, but whenever I do, I think 50% just for sitting there with a pile of cash. This bloke spent his whole life coming up with this idea. Well, yeah, it's only one part of it, though. I mean, the exposure is good. And I must say, throughout the process, there were terrific people to deal with. But. So it's a real note on to Mike, my friend, the floor manager says. Will says it's real. The note on top of the pile is real and the rest of it isn't. Yeah, the top one was, but the. The rest of it, it's just like a good forgery. You know, you can sort of tell as soon as you pick it up, but for the purposes of the camera, it looked real enough. It'll be printed probably only on one side as well, to avoid any kind of criminal or legal issues. Exactly, yeah. How's business? After you? Very good. Yeah. The filming takes place six months before it goes, so, yeah, as soon as it went on air, it was very, very good, and it has been since. So can you crack? Continue? No. Brilliant. It's earned you a round of applause as well. What's not to like? Thanks, James. Well played, Mark. Can we squeeze in one more? Yeah, we can. Peter's in Kensington. Question or answer? Peter? Yeah, it's the answer to the NASA cameras. Why don't they use colored ones? Well, today, for example, even though the technology has been around for a long time. We still x ray human beings in black and white. We also x ray all sorts of other engineering perspectives in pipes that are welded and things, because the black and white shows a true image as best that it possibly can with minimum distortion. My understanding of the technology is that color and the way it's perceived through the spectrum can distort even just and cause minor problems. No, that makes a lot of sense. We had that frock a few months ago and people were arguing over what colour it was, even when they were looking at the same picture. So what are your qualifications? Well, I'm retired now, but I used to be an engineering surveyor and I used to. That'll do. Have a round of applause. We're out of time. And that's it for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. I'm James O'Brien. This is LBC. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty.