Why does your tongue get stuck on cold things?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery Hour is about to get underway for the first time in three weeks. Your weekly opportunity to achieve. Well, obviously it's not your weekly opportunity, is it? If I've been off for a fortnight and you haven't been able to do it, your usually weekly. Your often weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You ring in with a question, right? And then someone else rings in with the answer. Now, I grant you, that does not sound like the most exciting invention in the history of radio inventions, but it is. Well, maybe not the most exciting invention in the history of radio inventions, but it's a heck of a lot of fun and incredibly popular. So much so it's even spawned its own game. Which leads me to the incredible news that there's even a prize for my favorite contribution of the week. Whether it's question or answer or somewhere in between, my favorite contribution of the week wins a brand spanking new mystery hour game box fresh and fancy free. Full terms and conditions are available at LBC dot co dot UK dot. And if you go now to Mysteryhour dot co dot UK Mysteryhour dot co dot UK comma, you can see the game in glorious technicolor. Find out a little bit more about it and then buy it yourself. Have I covered all the bases? I think I have. I think I have covered all the bases. I've got some phone lines free. I mean, God knows how, usually by five minutes after twelve on a Thursday, the switchboard's absolutely groaning under the weight of contributions. But maybe. Maybe I've broken your rhythms. Maybe the fact that it hasn't been on air for a couple of weeks means that you'd forgotten. But I will say the number, because if I don't say the number, I end up speaking to the same three people every day. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And honestly, stop sending me snacks. Now, there's some very funny suggestions, but what happens is that we become victims of our own success, you see? So I don't see the funny ones, because they are buried in an avalanche of mediocre ones. That's the problem. For example, speaking of mediocre. No, I can't read that out because that might be rude and I just don't understand what the words are. But anyway, five after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. If you don't know quite what I'm talking about at the moment. Plus a change. Plus la meme chose. But also wait and see. Just, just stick around, pay attention. You'll soon pick it up. Won't take long. Rob is in God's own country. Kidderminster. Question or answer, Rob? Question, James. Carry on. Whereabouts in kiddie are you? Just outside towards Hartlebury. Okay, so Wolverley then, Wesley. Okay, lovely. I went to school in Chattersley. Oh, just around the corner. Yeah. No. Anyway, carry on. Sorry. So, question is, I was having a conversation with some people about engines and horsepower and things and it got me wondering, what is the origin of the horsepower? So how was it decided? How did they first? Did they actually. Did they take 100 horses and measure the output? Did they take one horse? Which type of horse? How did they cut? So I'm going to ask you a question now, Rob, which I hope you appreciate. I think you will, but I reckon that probably only a maximum of between 51 hundred people currently listening to this program will understand why the question I'm about to ask you next is such a classic. Are you ready? Yes, sir. Were you in the horse fair when you had this conversation about horse power? No. No. How many, Jerry? It was on a much more boring topic that usually wouldn't make it onto Mistra, but it stretched, it segued. I don't even know which pubs are still open in the horse fair, but anyway, we shall find out for you. Thank you, Rob. And thank you also for making me mildly homesick. It's the first game of the season on Saturday, but someone's still not finished his bloody book, so he won't be able to go. Seven after twelve is the time. Where does horse power come from? What role did horses play in the invention of horse power? Nigel is in Southampton. Nigel, question or answer? It is a question, if I may. You may. So basically, I'm sat here looking out of a window, looking at a tree. Oh, yeah. And I'm thinking to myself, living the dream. Living the dream. Looking at the branches on the tree and using the scenario of us having arms that poke out at the top and legs that poke out at the bottom. Does a tree know when it's planted, where those branches are going to come out? Or does the. Do the branches come out in a time because of the place it's been planted? Yeah, I see what you mean. So in the way that a sunflower will turn to the sun, would a tree return to the sun. Yeah. So I'm looking at a big oak tree at the moment with a branch that's pointing out on the side. Yeah. And it's like, did that tree know that, that. I'm a little bit uncomfortable. I'm a little bit uncomfortable with us in parting consciousness to trees. So I think the idea of a tree knowing something, so we're talking about it being predetermined, biologically predetermined. I think when it's a little tiny sapling and there's no branches, is it always going to be the case that that branch is going to come out at that point on the tree? I like this question. I think probably not, because, I mean, just to bring it down to first principles, presumably a four leaf clover is. Is. Comes from a three leaf clover. I don't know. No, I've never found one. I'm not that lucky. But also all trees, you never really. I mean, even in an orchard, all the trees are different, aren't they? They're not identical. They are, exactly. But I don't know whether that makes your question more or less like the branches. Who makes the branches? Does the branch dispersal on a tree, is it determined by nature or nurture by environment? Yeah, there we go. Is it environment or sort of origin? I like that. Or are they. I'm glad you do. I very nearly didn't phone in. Well, it still might be daft, just because I like it. Nigel, let's not get carried away. There's absolutely no guard whatsoever against the conclusion that it will turn out to be daft. But we shall. We shall try to find out. I've got a little, right at the front of the house, near the car, that we've got a little oak tree. Saplings come up, for some reason, in the middle of. I mean, it can't. We can't possibly leave it there because it's going to get trodden on. But there's something quite sad about that. I'm going to try and repot it. Yeah, exactly. God knows how. Well, I know how it got there, obviously an acorn, but it's quite remarkable, really. But anyway, I digress. Thank you. Thank you, Nigel. So does the branch dispersal of a tree get determined by environment? That is where the tree is, or by. Is it genetics? It's not genetics, it's biology. Just, you know, predetermined. DNA, is it? Yeah, DNA. Would it be DNA? I don't know. Oh, I should have paid more attention at school. Tom's in Hopton on Sea. Tom, question or answer question, please, James, carry on. Well, I was eating a nice pop with the wife last night. Is that a figure of speech, Tom? This is a family program. And as I was talking to her and went to take a lick, my tongue got stuck to the lollipop, just like the. Just like the film, dumb and dumber. And I just wondered, why is that? Why does your tongue get stuck to freezing things? Oh, yes. Yeah. I don't know, actually. I thought. I didn't know that had been asked before because everyone had seen dumb and dumb and there's just something I pitched as soon as that happened. It gets stuck to a car, doesn't it? And what does it get stuck to? It gets stuck to the pole. They're on the. Why does it happen? Yeah, why does it happen? Why does it get stuck? Because obviously your tongue is. Obviously your temperature of your body, the freezing cold. Obviously freezing. And just wondering why it gets stuck. I like this question. I haven't got a clue. It's metal, generally, but I mean, did you really get stuck to an ice pop or are you. Can I say what brand it was? Well, yeah, of course you can. It was a fab lolly. Oh, okay. And, yeah, I was just talking along. Went to. Went to have another lick. It's a nice lolly, though. My tongue is stuck to it. But not for very long. Not for very long, though, because the lolly would melt, whereas maybe a second or so. But, yeah. No, I just wanted to. I wanted to get the science straight, because if it was a metal pole in arctic temperatures, then you need to call the emergency services. I mean, you can't mess about with that. But the lolly would melt and release you. The melt, the metal works. If you've got an ice bucket and you pick some ice out with your hand, you can feel that you get stuck to your hand. Yeah. Just momentarily you can. Yeah. I just wondered why that happens. I shall find out for you. So were you sharing a fab with your wife? I can't conclude. I can't say that. Okay. Sorry, mate, I didn't mean to. Pie. And we had one each and mine up, so I need it quite quick. That's why. Having one each. Cost of living crisis. What cost of living crisis? All my lollies. I like a fab, actually. Although what? Did I discover it? Oh, hang on. Tom, come back. Do you remember refresher sweets? Remember the chews? Oh, yes, yes. They're lollies now. Oh, are they? I did see the rainbow lollies in there as well. No, get yourself. Get your lips around the refresher lolly, mate. They were absolutely delicious. They've got that sherbet y kick, you know, that the lollies had. I found them in Morrison's the other day and. Yeah, let's just say they're now a regular fixture on my shopping list. Thank you, Tom. So why do our tongues stick to frozen things? Do branches know where they're going on a tree? And what's the origin of horsepower? And did it involve horses? Gareth is in. So, right, I'm not criticizing my colleagues. I never criticize my colleagues. But sometimes if someone is ringing in from a. From a. From an interestingly named place, or if someone has an interesting name, they sometimes put a phonetic pronunciation guide on the screen for me. So Siobhan is a good example. The irish name Siobhan is spelled s I o b h a n. So anyone called Siobhan will tell you that they've heard some right old abominations of people trying to pronounce their name. So you might put on the board s I s h I v a u n. Shit, Vaughn. Right, to help me. So Gareth is ringing from a place in Derbyshire that is spelt crick, c r I c h. So what? Crouch? Yeah. Oh, it's Crich. So the. The phonetic explanation I've had put on the screen in front of me, Gareth, for c r I c h, is c r y c h I. Well, I don't know what to say. How does that help anybody? How does that help anybody? Critch. Crick. Critch. Crick. Crich. Crike. Everybody always calls it critch, but it's crich. Crich. It's always crich. To me, Gareth is in crouch, that well known Derbyshire village. Gareth, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on. Right, so the bank of England just put the interest rate up. And for the 14th month in the row, I've had the same question going through my head. Where does the money go? So obviously I've got mortgage with nationwide, they put the interest rate up because they get more money to pay the bank of England. When it filters up to the top at the bank of England, where does that money go? Does it go to the government? Does it go to the bank of England? Somewhere. Somewhere there's a huge pile of money. Where's it go? I don't quite understand. I know HSBC announced absolutely ginormous profits yesterday and the clever people said that was partly due to interest rates. So I guess it depends how liquid a bank is. They keep it. You know, they lend you money and you're paying. They're borrowing money from the bank of England because they're the ones that are setting the interest. Not always. I don't think. I don't know. I thought it all came filtered down from there. I don't think so if it didn't. It's a central, it's a central bank, but it's not. It doesn't. I mean it doesn't. I don't think that the. I don't think that they're in debt. The normal banks, as a matter of course, quite the opposite. Because if they can't cover their debts, they go under, don't they? But should, then a commercial mindset would say, well, if all of the other banks are following what the bank of England have told them to do, then we will undercut them all and we won't put our interest rates up. Well that is why. That's why there are different mortgage rates around. But they're all going up and up and up, aren't they? None of them are saying, right, we're just going to. If you've got ten quid and you're lending me ten quid and I have to pay you back 15 quid and someone else comes along and says, you only have to pay me back eleven quid. That's what you're talking about. I still need the ten quid in the eleven quid instead of two people paying about 15 quid. It makes commercial sense to do that. Yeah, but they're banks, aren't they? I just can't get my head around the fact that, nor can I now paid extra. But it's all got to be going somewhere. And where is it going? But that's when I come back to HSBS profits from, I think it was the beginning of this week, maybe even yesterday, when they just announced something like a billion gazillion pounds and said it's largely because of interest rate. So some banks. So, yeah. $2 billion share buyback after profit boost from interest rates. That's the Financial Times, that is. HSB unveiled its 2nd $2 billion share buyback of the year after rising interest rates helped it post bumper quarterly profits of $8.8 billion. Does that answer your question? No, because then we're in the position where it would benefit the banks always. But that's a different question. That's a different question. You said where does the money go? And the fact. I don't think it's all going to bank profits. It's all got to be filtering off somewhere. To the bank of England, surely. Why? I don't know. This is not a financial wizard. I just found myself thinking, hang on, everybody's now paying hundreds of pounds extra a month. Somewhere, money is going up the chain. Have we just got, like, you know, so what's the top of the chain? Well, yeah, I think we might. I think it might. I mean, this is what I often find with matters financial, is that you and I, because we're fundamentally decent people, think, well, it can't be that big a rig. But actually, no, it is all just designed to make banks really rich. We'll find out. I mean, where does it go? After it goes to HSBC? So for all the money that HSBC is currently getting in mortgage. But who's at the top of the chain? And where does it go? Who's at the very top of the chain and where does it go? I don't think that the bank of England is like this sort of peak of the period. But I could be wrong. In fact, the likelihood of me being wrong is quite high, which means I should stop talking, really. How big is Kreich? How big is Kreich? What's the population of Kreich? It's quite a small town. 200. 400. It's famous for one thing and one thing only. Many years ago, peak practice was filmed in crouch. Peak practice was filmed in crouch. There you go. That's a big claim to fame, my friend, was in peak practice. Thank you, Gareth. 1219 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 22 minutes after twelve. How do we calculate horsepower? How was it originally calculated? And did it involve horses? Does the dispersal of branches on a tree, is it defined by environment? Or does the sort of. Is it there? Is it established from inception, as it were, nearly said? Birth. What's the correct word for a tree being bought? I imagine if you just turn this on. Just being born. A tree being born. It's too loud that I can't hear what you're saying in my ear. Why did Tom's tongue get stuck to his ice pop? But it's actually a fab lolly, to be precise. But why do our tongues get stuck to frozen things? Frozen stuff. And when you're paying interest, where does it end up? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Taf. Sink. Cardiff taft. Question or answer? I have a question. Please carry on. Why are police officers known as coppers I know this. Oh, okay. I don't know whether I know it because it's come up before, or whether I know it just generally, but it's actually, when you think about it, you're going to kick yourself. Go on. So if you think of the phrase cop it, you're gonna cop it. It's a bit chicken and egg, so you might think the phrase you're gonna cop, it comes from copper being slang for cop, but it doesn't. It's a synonym for capture. So I think the latin was capere. And cop means if you go back to the. I don't know, medieval, probably post medieval, 17th, 16th century, cop would be just another word for capture. So the copper is a captureur. And, ergo, police officers became known as coppers because they were the ones that were going to capture you. Fascinating. You should give yourself the prize this week. I've got them coming out of my ears. But I shall certainly accept a round of applause with your compliments, taf. Absolutely. Thank you for that. No, thank you for that. That was a lovely little etymological discourse. Izzy's in Nottingham. Is he? Question or answer? It's an answer. Please, James, carry on. It's about the interest rates question, basically. The guy who phoned in kind of has it a little bit wrong, unfortunately. Yeah. What a dope. Yeah. Gareth? So did I, to be fair. Well, I don't know if I did. You carry on. I'll soon find out. Basically, what happens is the system was designed so that banks use interest to regulate loans and to regulate savings. So, obviously, the interest rate on your loan is what you pay back and the interest rate on your savings is what the bank pays you. So when the bank of England wants people to stop spending so much, they put the interest rate up to try and encourage people to save money, and then they don't go out and spend as much, but the bank still keeps the interest, because the bank is using the interest to then fund the other side of the business, if you like. So your money in savings pays for the loans that they give to other people, and vice versa. So they need to incentivize both sides. They need to encourage you to keep your savings at the bank so they can lend it out to other people on the other side. They do pay some kind of like, I guess you would call it a fee to the bank of England, because they have to keep a certain amount of money at the bank of England to kind of keep them stable, if you like. But the bank of England doesn't see that money, when they put that interest rate up, that's not what they do it for. So it doesn't go anywhere near the bank of England. It stops with the height, with the individual institutions, which is why HSBC posted profits of $8.8 billion for the last month or quarter. And it's also why you see so many fluctuations in interest rates. So, like, bigger banks that have got bigger cash deposits can probably afford to offer lower rates, and smaller banks that don't have as much cannot afford to do that, so they have to offer higher rates. Yeah, yeah. And I think I did pretty well, actually. You did pretty well? Yeah. Not as well as you, obviously. You get the round of applause. Well, hang on, I need to check. What are your qualifications locations? I work for a big high street bank. That's perfect. And you get a round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you, Izzy. Amazingly, I understood all of that. Normally, I sort of get close to sort of 85, 90% on a good day, but I understood absolutely all of that. And it does fit with the sort of sense that the profits that they're talking about now, the $8.8 billion, would not be there unless they were keeping the money that is being raised via interest. And we are spending less money because our money costs more. Effectively. The higher interest rates are. Izzy. I did say Izzy, didn't I? Didn't turn it into Lizzy halfway through, did I? I think no. Good. 27 minutes after twelve is the time room for more questions as well. Of course, John is in. Oh, we've got a bit of a scandal brewing. Apparently, the national tram museum is also in crich, so Gareth may have done a disservice to his own hometown and has been in touch to, say, my husband, Graham, who is a born and bred Derbyshire man, Tideswell, which is probably pronounced Tidswell, contends that Critch is mostly known for peak, is not mostly known for peak practice. He says people flock to the national tram museum there, so that's two reasons to visit Kreich. Thank you. I'm glad we cleared that up. John's in Bristol. John, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, John. Right, I have been wondering for ages about whether. About how the atmosphere works. So, like, you know, the troposphere. So, like, you go up a mountain and you go up the top of, say, Mount Everest and gets really cold, and then you keep going up and up and up and it gets colder and colder. That all makes loads of sense. Right, yeah. But then you get to the stratosphere and it starts getting hotter again. So it goes from like -60 up to zero. So it, like, it gets hotter again and then it gets colder again. And then above that there's something called the thermosphere and it goes all the way up to like 200 degrees. Right. So why it would get colder and then hotter. Colder and then hotter the further you go up. It's weird. Doesn't make any sense. Well, I mean, bits of it make sense because you're getting closer to the sun, so the hotter bit makes sense, but then the colder bit makes even less sense. Yeah, because you also get. How much of this has got to do with the earth's atmosphere? Yeah, it's all the earth's atmosphere. That's what I mean. So this is all in the earth's atmosphere? Yeah, that's right. And then it goes all the way to the exosphere and it goes to zero, like Kelvin, you know, minus zero Kelvin. So why does it get colder the further you go up? That makes a lot of sense. Give them to me in order. So what are they called? Oh, I can't remember them all, but it's. There is the one by the earth and then the next one up is the stratosphere. And the stratosphere is inversely proportional to the troposphere in terms of temperature. Yeah, yeah. So the further you go up in the stratosphere, we need Professor Hal. I think on this one, I haven't a clue. Nor have I. Now. I mean, I don't. To be fair, John, I have got no idea what you're talking about in general, let alone sphere stratosphere. Never fear, we'll try and find out. Are you sure you got your facts right? That's the first thing, yeah, yeah, 100% cool. I had to do meteorology for my pilot's exam and I was taught this and I never figured out why on earth. No, you need to do that. No. All right then, so why. I mean, yeah, depending on where you are. How can it be getting colder than it was before as you head towards the sun? Yeah, well, away from the sun as well, like on the outside of the earth. All right, you're on. I mean, hopefully someone understands the question. Yeah, yeah. All right, I'm good, I'm good. No, thank you. That's. There you go. Temperature inversion. The higher you get in the atmosphere, the temperature changes. What's going on? Right. There you go. Very clever. 12:30 is time. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1234 is the time. Some breaking news for you. This is bad for the people that work there, but also, I think, politically, because Richie Sunak's claimed yesterday that business was doing well and that lots of people were coming up to him at a beer festival to tell him how good things were. Didn't seem to tally, did it? When we did it as a phone in with the experiences of most people in business. But Wilco, the retailer, you'll be familiar with it, sort of home wares and garden stuff and things like that. Have warned that they're on the brinks of collapse after failing to find investment. So they filed a notice of intention to appoint administrators after failing to find enough investment. Chief executive Mark Jackson said it would continue to talk with interested parties about options for the business, but it's mounting cost pressures that are causing their problems at the moment. Julian is in. Hessel. Julian, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Please carry on, mate. Horsepower. It does have everything to do with horses. Fantastic. So in the good old days, when everything was done by horses as work horses, that is, pulling, pushing, lifting, that sort of thing, dragging those horses provided a very, very stable way of doing lots of tasks. However, then along came Mister Watt and Mister Stevenson and their friends and created the steam engines. So in a bid to try and persuade people to move away from horses or horsepower to steam to new inventions, what they would do is they would calculate some particular things that were known to people, such as down the mines. It was known that there was a big issue with flooding. While the water had to be extracted from the mines, that was normally done via horses. That would get the horses to operate pumps or to actually pull it up using large vessels, they would use the horses. So Mister Watts created an engine that could replicate two or four horses. Oh, wow. Two and 4. That was then used as a measure of the engines moving forwards. So it started on the pumps as opposed to the, like trains, as it were, or steam engines. It will have. It also had to do with carriages, because they were. There were horse pulled carriages which then changed steam carriages. So how accurate is. It's very accurate. Not accurate at all, to be fair. No, because now, I mean, what would. What would a car be? Horsepower for a Porsche or a Formula one car? Porsche. About 350. So that the idea is that that is, if it was pulling something, it would be as effective as having 300 horses. China. But it's a bit of a misnomer because power and traction and everything else has a lot to do with it. So whereas horses would have a lot of traction, so they could get a lot of grip and pull things very heavy. That's a brilliant answer. Qualifications? Ex mechanic. That question was asked of all the students for an old gentleman that told me mechanics very years ago. Yes. Just to go and find out what the answer was. I remembered it ever since. I like it. And when Rob in Kidderminster asked the question, Julian, do you know why? I hilariously asked him if he had been having the conversation in the horse fair. No, I didn't know. That's because a well known thoroughfare in the heart of my hometown is known as the horse fair. Ah. So now you know. Possibly the least interesting piece of information I've ever shared. I do have one more nugget of information, though, regarding snacks on a roof. Oh, yeah, go on. Never tubes the Pringles. They'll just roll off. He's so cross as well. Wouldn't you pass me the Pringles? There you go. Oh, no, you're on. Round of applause for Julian, please. Thank you, James. Thank you, Julian. Lovely stuff. Mike's in Cambridge. Mike, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Have you? I have. Carry on. I was driving earlier and I suddenly got a really bad itch in between my shoulder blades, which is a hard place to reach, so you. And you have to do it within seconds. Why do you suddenly get an itch somewhere? Well, I mean, there's a difference. There's a lot of different answers to that. Oh, isn't it? Well, I don't know. That's why I'm reading you. Well, I mean, I don't know if there's a definitive answer because you're going to be looking at. You could have got something on your skin, you know, it could have been a bit of dried shower gel from earlier or something like that, or a bit of dry skin or it could be. It could be anything, actually. Could just. I mean, I don't know. I'm going to put it on the board. I like the question, but I don't know if you can go definitive on an itch, because there must be something on the skin that suddenly decides they need scratching. And why does it suddenly decide? I mean, shower gels been on there since this morning. Yeah, but it's just reached a point of desiccation. It's dried to a point where it begins to exert and it's. I don't. I don't use shower gel. Yeah, but I wasn't. I mean, don't be pedantic. Don't be pedantic. It could be so. And also, James. Yeah. Also, when you're carrying a tray of beers. Yeah. Yours, you always get an itch on your nose, don't you? This is not untrue. You get that you, or at least you notice it more than you would have done. All right. Yeah. I mean, it could be like a bit of dust, couldn't it? That's the most obvious example. A bit of dust has settled on you. Yeah, but there's dust everywhere. You'd be itching all day long, wouldn't you? Well, some people are. It depends how sensitive. Some people are hypersensitive, most of us aren't. So it's just a normal person. Why do you suddenly get one of those ones? You have to scratch it. Yeah. So the skin cells are irritated by something. And the reason why I'm worried that we're not going to get a definitive answer to this is that I think they can be irritated by lots of different things. Do you see what I mean? That's all. But I put it on the board. I see what someone thinks. So, I mean, hopefully we'll get an answer. Lovely. Thank you. No, thank you, Mike. Thank you. 1240 is the time. Be careful. Obviously, if you're driving and you get an itch between your shoulder blades, I'm sure you don't need me to issue a health and safety warning at this point. Zara is in Kingston. Zara, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Why is it so difficult to predict the exact date that a baby's going to be born? Because we can do surrogacy. Egg donor, sperm donor. But even if a doctor examines the woman, they still can't say when she's going to go into labor. And apparently 90% of babies are born two weeks either side of their predicted due date. So why is it, with all that we can do, we cannot get that exact. Well, first of all, if you'll allow me, I don't think it's helpful to bring in other scientific breakthroughs, even in the context of gynecology, as a sort of either or type scenario. If we can do this, why can't we do that? I think it's two completely different kettles of fish. Second of all, I'm pretty sure they use a different metric. In France, for example, I'm pretty sure they use a different. So that's how unreliable it is, is that other societies have different measures for even predicting when it's going to be. Third of all, I don't. I mean, it's not an exact science from the point of conception to the point of birth is not. It's not on rails, Zara, is it? It's not, it's not. I mean, we can talk about trimesters, and we can talk about gestation periods, and we can talk about nine months for humans, but I don't think it is like cast in stone. Depends on size, depends on if they. Even if they, like, I know someone that was examined weeks before her due date, and she was 4 cm dilated, but she still didn't go into labor for another six weeks. So like, there's got to be some way. No, I think you're looking through the wrong end of the telescope. Okay. Because that, that's a reason why it's so hard to do. Because someone else who was 4 cm dilated before six weeks before their due date, or four weeks before their due date might have dropped the sprog two weeks later. Yeah. So it's impossible to be someone that can answer a bit. Why are you being so mistrustful of my own meanderings? Well, I guess what it comes down to, James, is what medical school did you go to? Well, I went to the school of common sense, I think is what people say at this point in proceedings. But that, I mean, the question of why is it so hard to predict when a baby is going to be born, I think is going to turn out to be one of those questions to which the answer is the question. And it is literally because it's really hard. It's really hard to predict when a baby is going to be born, which is. Which is why it's a mistake to think that it's exact, because, you know, people go way past their due date, and then of course, you have completely unexpected premature babies as well. So I think we're wrong to think that it's like, we're wrong to actually try and predict it. Well, you have to try and predict it because you've got to get the nursery ready and make sure you're not drunk on the nights when you might go into labor, or your wife, a partner might go into labor and things like. But I'll ask why? Why are we so, why is it so hard to predict when a baby is born? Yeah, that's the question we want. Why is it so hard to predict when a baby will be born? Marks in Bromley. Mark, question or answer? I have a question, James, carry on. Okay, when I listen to the playback of this conversation we're having, if I play it back at a faster speed. Yeah, our voices will raise in pitch and we'll sound like pinky and perky. This is true. But if I suddenly start speaking quickly now like that. Yeah. It doesn't happen. So why is that? No, no, it wasn't that noise. Wasn't that noise. It was more than a. Mmm. Because I think, I think you're comparing apples with oranges. But I just said that to, to zara, so I feel bad saying it again. It makes me sound like a one trick pony. It does a bit, doesn't it? Yeah, I know it does. I'm sorry about that. Why am I comparing apples with oranges? Because talking quickly at the same pitch is not, it's not a mystery why the pitch doesn't change. So why does it change if you play better recording quickly? Because you doing something different. You're doing something different if you speak more quickly. Yeah, but you're speaking at the same pitch. Yeah, but you're speaking at the same pitch. So when you, when you, when you speed something up, it's all recorded at the same pitch. Yeah, I understand the mystery. I understand why it's a mystery, but I don't think it's helpful to bring in the. I speak quicker and it doesn't go up in pitch. It's going up in pitch because they've pressed fast forward on it. So it doesn't matter. I don't either. I don't either. Put it on the board. I'm gonna put it on the board. Everyone's a producer now. I'm gonna put it on the board. All right. I'm not, I mean, I'm just trying to, I'm trying to trim the flab from the question before we put it into the public place. Just gonna. Alright, so why does our voice go up in pitch when we press fast forward on a recording is the question. Really. And it also drops in pitch if you play at a slower speed. Yes, this is true. Yeah, it does. Okay, you're on. Yeah. I want to know why. Yeah, I do know as well. I did before. I just haven't really realized. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Satellite Smurfs. Do you know something funny? Wait, it's not that funny. I think I must have not been able to read at the time and, but I knew how to use my dad's record player, so I mean, that must have been tiny. So I got my dad's old record player when I was a kid and I must have put the an album on at 45. You remember when you had a, you flicked a switch from 33 to 45. I was going to use that as an example. Yeah. But I thought probably most of the people listening, young to know, they wouldn't know what we were on about, would they? I'm getting used to that. 45s on a 78, all of that. It happens more and more, but I spent about an hour one Sunday morning thinking that my dad had bought me a Smurfs album, because I put an album on and I didn't. And it must have been on 45 instead of 33. And it started playing and I don't know what it was, Frank Sinatra or something like that, but I thought he'd bought me a Smurfs album without telling me. You must have been crushed when you found out the truth. Well, I was actually. That might have damaged you. Well, I never got much that kind of thing. Do you remember when national garages or national garages gave out Smurfs as well? With petrol? Yes, we do. Dad had expenses. He had expenses for petrol, so I could have had all the Smurfs, but he never went. It was a bit further away. It wasn't on his way home or his way to work, so he never went. He never went. I mean, I lost him in 2012, so I'd hate anyone to think that I'm still bitter about anything like this. But just a few Smurfs. Smart. Smurfs are Smurfs, man. I know. And then it was a great hour, though. They were good playground currency as well. I know they were. Everyone except me had Smurfs, but male interest magazines and things like that. You know, we're having a little moment here. A little. I was thinking more of the stickers you used to get in Weetabix than I was about mail interest magazines. But I suppose you're right. There you go. So what's the reason why? If you press, if you're listening to this now, you can do it, can't you, on the podcast, you can rewind the podcast and you can speed up the speed at which you're listening. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1251 is the time. On it goes. Any favourites so far for the. For the mystery hour game? Anybody got any record? We should have a look. It's all to play for Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Hello, James. Good to be again. Atmospheric stratification. Yes. Is the phenomenon that your questioner was asking about? Phenomenon. And I'm going to draw on my climate change masters for this. You usually do, Andy, you usually do. So he's absolutely right. This is an effect that is noticeable, and I never. So we. During the. In the troposphere, and obviously, this is very topical at the moment, because we're talking essentially about the greenhouse effect. Yes. So as you go up vertically through the troposphere, there is a reduction in the percentages, the quantity of gases within the atmosphere, so there is less absorption of the radiation at the higher levels of the atmosphere. And that's why they've got different names, because they're different atmospheres. Yes. Now, when you get to the top of the troposphere, there's something called a temperature inversion. Yes. We've got something called the tropopause, and then it goes into the stratosphere. Now, in the stratosphere, the principal gases are what, again, you'll know this. Ozone. So the hole in the ozone layer was a deficit in the quantities of the gases over that part of the Antarctic. Now, ozone is a powerful greenhouse gas, which is why it has a high absorption rate of solar radiation. And therefore there is an increase in temperature as you go up through the stratosphere. Then there is, again, there is a layer in of those gases and it moves into the next layer, and then the composition of that layer is different again, which has less properties for absorbing radiation. And then, obviously, when you go into the higher atmosphere, I mean, I know you've got that masters that you want to explore, but I think you've nailed it already. I think you nailed it quite early on, didn't you? I mean. I mean, it is essentially that they are just different atmospheres. So the heat is going to be different, the temperature is going to be different. Yeah. Essentially, it's about different gas ratios, or whatever you want to call it. And, I mean, it makes perfect sense. I can feel the clouds clearing. Hopefully, John will be similarly, similarly delighted. And I think you covered everything, haven't you? All the bits that you mentioned. The inversion. The inversion question. Qualifications. He's got a master's in climate change. Yeah. Thank you. Round of applause. You were into it before it was cool. Yeah, weren't you? What's that? Sorry? You were into climate change before it was cool. Yes. Yes. Certainly don't. Well, we shall see. We shall see. Don't look back and think, oh, why did I do a master's in climate change? No one talks about that anymore. Joe's in Cambridge. Joe, question or answer? It's an answer. Please carry on, Joe. So it's to do with the speeding up and slowing down of your voice? Yes. So, essentially, when you speak, or when you record some sound, you produce a sound wave, and if you play that sound wave back over a short period of time. Yeah. You're squeezing it, aren't you? So it becomes squeaky. Yeah. So essentially, if you play it back over a shorter period of time, you're making that wavelength shorter and therefore the pitch goes higher. Yeah. And it works, obviously in reverse as well, if you make the sound wave longer. I can see this. I can see your answer. I can visualize your answer as you speak. That doesn't happen very often. So it's like when you had in sort of action films, the bodyguard jumping in front of the president, and they would be going, no, in that really low voice. They're saying it normally when they film it, but because they're playing it in slow motion, it goes down in pitch because you're making the wavelength longer. Yeah. So you think of it as a piece of string, and that is your x axis, and your y axis is how high pitched or low pitched it is. And if you squeeze both ends of the piece of string in, then the middle goes up and the pitch gets higher because the wavelength is getting higher. If you had a spring. Yeah, that's better. I shouldn't have said a piece of spring. Like a pipe cleaner or something like that. Yeah. Well, no, like. Like a spring, because it's got the coils on it. And if you stretch the coils further and further apart. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That works as well. And. Or nearer together, you know, if you push it together. Love it. No, you nailed it. Qualifications? I have a physics degree. That'll do. Round of applause for Joe. What an academic band. What's not jamboree this is turning out to be. I nearly said Banjeri then I don't know what's up going. Absolutely ridiculous. So Mark asked the question, Joe answered it in double quick time. 1056 is the time. No, no, it's not. It's 1256. Everyone relax. Toby's in Salzburg. Toby, question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on. Toby. It's the trees. Carry on. The short answer is three. Aha. Pardon, but nature is a bit more complex than numbers. Yes. So it's both predetermined. Any branch that you cut back will produce three new branches for every tree. Okay, but there's a slight difference, but it's also circumstantial. But when. When the first branch appears, would that have been determined at germination or will that be environmentally determined? There is no first branch. It's a straight shoot it goes straight up. There's just one. Then there comes a leaf. But if you cut back the first shoot, if you just. If you don't cut back anything, if you don't cut back anything. You get branches, though. Yeah. Because every year puts on a new layer. So what. What would be here it becomes. Here it becomes circumstantial. So if. If a tree grows in a forest, can anyone hear it? A tree? Yeah. Well, yeah, exactly. Sorry, carry on. It will grow straight up. Why does it do that? Because it wants to reach the sun. The purpose of the leaves and the needles is just to gather in sunlight to get to the sun. So if you've got tightly packed trees, they're going to behave very differently from a tree that is in a meadow unmolested by other trees. In German, it's even called a meadow tree. What you're describing is it really? Well, they always get. And a meadow tree is an absolute. Is an absolute nightmare to cut to pieces, because it's full of branches. And branches make it more difficult to split. Industrial forests, which most forests in Europa are densely packed because we want straight trees to make boards. Wow. I'd never thought of that. Now, the bypass for boards is every piece of furniture now is made of chip wood. But the straighter your tree is, the more you get, the easier it is. The easier it is to turn it into planks of wood. Boards of wood. No. And it's more valuable. Of course it is, yeah. Now, I can see that a straight tree is a lot more valuable than. Brilliant answer, chip wood or for the paper industry. What are your qualifications? My uncle is a big forest owner and he knows everything about trees. And I help him with the foresting because he's in his eighties. Perfect answer. Toby, have a round of applause for me. That was an absolute education. Oh, Lord. I think I'm going to give Zara the game because she didn't get an answer to her question about babies. And I felt that she was quite unimpressed with my attempts to engage with her. I mean, I don't know, is that a qualification to win a game or someone who's. But anyway, I'm giving it. I think I'm gonna give it. Oh, shank if it's a horsepower. Julian, go right. I'm out of time. Zara gets the game. That's it. Thank you. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow from ten. Don't forget global player and all its magnificent accoutrements, including the freedom to rewind live radio and speed it up and hear because the sound waves would then get shorter and so my voice would become higher pitched. I learned that on mischief. There's also a game. Rewind live radio on global player download for free from your App Store. Head to globalplayer.com. Now coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Sawbrick. But now it's time for Sheila Fogarty.