If you drink a hot drink in hot weather does it cool you down?

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1204 is the time you're listening. Was that different from usual? They seem to have a refrain going on or a double bubble on it, but anyway, it is guest. Guess what? Yeah, he's right. It's mystery on LBC with James O'Brien. If you want to book your plays on the board, do it now. Be quick. Oh. 345. I used to say it's the busiest time of the week, this twelve till one slot on Thursdays, but to be honest with you, my phones have gone so bonkers for the last six months, I'm probably going to have to change that little catchphrase under trades descriptions. But if you do have a question that needs an answer, I'll go into a little bit more detail about how this works in a minute. If you're not familiar with the feature, but if you are familiar with it and you've got a question, hit the numbers now, you will get through zero 345-606-0973 and if you don't get through, judicious use of redial is the answer, because we're sorting wheat from chaff all through the hour. The question, or rather the point of this, is to get answers that you haven't been able to find anywhere else. Okay? So if you've got a little mystery bubbling away in the back of your brain, a who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whence, a whither, even the occasional wherefore, then you ring in, you ask your question and somebody else listening knows the answer. The only actual rule, hard and fast rule, is that you. You're not allowed to look stuff up. So if you're providing an answer to the question, I'll ask you how. You know. I'll say, what are your qualifications? And you'll tell me. And it could be anything from, oh, I saw it on telly last night to I have a PhD and I'm the visiting professor of semantics at the University of Wisconsin. I mean, right across the board, your qualification just means, how do you know what you just told me? It doesn't. You don't have to say. Sort of bag of gymnastics award three or cycling proficiency at Stourport police station, sir car. 1983, six minutes after twelve is the time. The next two things are sort of items of advice rather than rules. Don't be boring, okay? Never be dull. So if the question is likely, if the answer to your question is likely only to be of interest to you, then unless it sort of walks a weird tightrope of surreal humour, it's unlikely to make the cut. So save yourself tuppence on ringing in if it's going to be about roads, for example, or miles per gallon or mysterious exits or esoteric roundabouts, and similarly repetition, which you can actually do a little bit to help do. The website can go and have a look at the archive at LBC Dot co dot UK and find an exhaustive list of questions and answers that we've dealt with in the past. But, you know, otherwise it's our job. Jones, the engineer, who regular listeners to the program. Do you know the audience has gone up by over a quarter since you left? Did you know that? It's incredible. And he worked with me for the first eleven years that I worked at LBC, but he clocked off last year and the audience figures have gone through the roof since. I don't know if there's a relationship between those two phenomena, but he's back and he actually does have, like me, some memory and knowledge of questions that we've dealt with in the past. So for the first time this year, we might actually be able to invoke the repetition rule with a degree of consistency. Seven minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Let's get mister. Yeah, let's get this party started. Helen is in Sheffield. Helen, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. I want to know how high the average garden frog can jump. The reason why I'm saying this is I have a chronic frog phobia and I've had to redo my garden, take all the grass away, hire the fences, have limestone chippings down. Oh, Helen, I was going to stop. I was going to take the mickey out of you. But this is no laughing matter, is it, really, James, I love my garden, but it's got too much. So we've taken the fence right down into limestone chipping so we can't get under. There's no water around like a rabbit proof fence, but for frogs. Yeah. And they. I've got little dogs that go out last night, so I thought I was all clear. I've already had one frog that got in. But, James, these aren't just normal frogs, they're like mutants. Last night I did. I'm putting my head out just to check it's not so bad. And I thought if we took the fence from four foot to six foot. I thought they were jumping over and I want. So this is possible, jump four foot over your fence. The security light triggered off last night and I thought I maybe had a cat in the garden. James, when I went out on my patio with three frogs on top of each other. Walking across the patio. What? Three frogs on top of each other? On top? What? What do you mean, on top of each other? Frog sandwich. Like a frog block? Yeah. Mangy. Yeah, mangy toi. Same to you, madam. Thank you. All right, where are the frogs? So what's the question? How high can a garden frog jump? Or where are the frogs on my patio coming from? How the heck are they getting in? Because there's no possible way of them getting in. Are they jumping over? It's unlikely. So the fence is four foot high? No, it was raised from four to six. You've got. You've put it up already. I thought that was just on the to do list. So it's a six foot fence and it goes all the way around the garden and down into the ground. What about the drains? Could they be coming up the drains? We don't have drains on the back. All right, I'm just thinking out loud. Don't be so dismissive, Helen. I'm trying to help. I was going to suggest the frog had been dropped by a bird, but I don't get how you get a triple decca frog that wouldn't be dropped by. It looked like a hamburger. I just. But it was. It was. They were moving pretty quickly and. Enough to trigger off the pir on the security. I went out. I thought it was so. I was expecting a cat. Yes. And I have you. The screams across my face. Oh, you poor thing. Absolutely shocking. This is going to sound. This is going to sound rude, but in advance. I swear to you, this is a sincere question. I can't think of any other way of phrasing it, but have you sought psychological help for the phobia? And you know what? That's a serious question. I know. Yes, I have. And no good. Didn't work. No. Someone said, will help you to fight your fear. And I just. I did chat. God knows I did try. We tried it. Just doing a bit of gardening and I had to go out and put my hands near the planters that I had. And I'm sort of. I'm like on a bungee, James. I'm sort of putting my hand down and coming back at 200 miles an hour. If I think I've felt a frog and once did think I've felt one and I nearly fainted. It turned out just to be an old bulb and I just had to boycott my garden. Well, I feel for you, I really do. I mean, frog phobias can be funny sometimes to others. Some people are frightened of buttons and clowns and balloons and you don't take it seriously. But where does it stem from? This is quite an odd mystery how it's turning into amphibian hour. Someone tells Steve what word it stems from. When I was a child, years ago, and I was sunbathing with a friend in the garden. She could have a pond. Yeah, probably about 1213. And I. And I said to her, the grasses were moving a lot, there was no wind. And she said, it's not the wind. She says, it's the baby frogs jumping. And that freaked you out? As soon as I knew, because then as soon as she told me what they were, I stood up and these little tiddly things started jumping up all over. And that was it. It's like a plague of frogs. It's in the Bible, isn't it, the plague of frogs. And there you are. And I know you've never looked back. It was basset hounds with me. Someone said, and for a million. We have a. We used to have a pub in Sheffield called the frog and parrot and is this some sort of elaborate wind up? You've got a frog phobia and you used to have a pub called the frog and Parrot. James. All right, let me just tell you. Go on. There was a cage and it had a parrot and it had a bullfrog in it. And the knights takens, you could go in and put the money in each cage. Yes. And if you could put your hand in, it was a nasty parrot and it was horrendous, like a canadian bull frog. And if you could put your hand in to Toshiba, you would get the catens that was in that box. Blimey. For a million pounds, I would not put my hand on a frog. That's how bad it is. Um, I've got some bad news. They're probably toads. Well, switch it, then. How high can the flipping toad you? Yeah, but they probably live in your garden already. They live underground. They've probably got a nest in your garden. Yeah, yeah, they have. No, under the patio. I need an answer. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right. You haven't got ninja frogs or toads, but whether or not whether. My mum's in Sheffield next week. Do you want me to get. I'll get her to pop round. She'll chase them out of the garden. I need therapy and someone tell me how to frog proof a garden. Well, can you frog proof a garden? That's the question, really, isn't it? Help. All right, I will. You know, I've been desperately trying to find some puns relating to the word croak or similar in the course of this entire conversation, but I got nothing. Helen. Tell me to hop off, get some help for Helen. You remember her? She said she used to have the frog and parrot. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Good grief. Well, all human life is here. And indeed amphibian life. Rachel is in Putney. Rachel, question or answer? Question. Carry on. I've listened for years and years and never asked you anything. You probably think this is idiotic suddenly. Yes, you might be able to answer it if somebody has a gin and tonic or a whisky and soda or something and doesn't really want it and leaves. What? How bizarre. Who would possibly find this strange man? And the next day, at least a day after, he or I will finish it off. Yes, but I can't taste any alcohol and I want to know if alcohol disappears like perfume would. No, I don't think it is. It's going to be about the dilution, isn't it? So you think if you leave a gin and tonic overnight and you polish it off in the morning, you can't taste the gin in it? That's right. So has the gin evaporated, but the tonic has essentially remained? Absolutely. It seems unlikely, doesn't it? Well, yes, but I don't understand it. Is it because when you're necking them in the morning, you've still got the taste of toothpaste in your mouth? It truly isn't. We're very old. We're very, very ancient. My husband and he said, I don't know, that was very annoying because he thought it was an idiotic question. Well, I certainly don't. Oh, thank you, sweetheart. You're very welcome. I shall find out for you. That's one for Professor Hal. I think probably we need a scientist. So how high can a frog jump? Or how can you frog prove toad proof a garden? And does the alcohol in a mixed drink, a gin and tonic or a whiskey and soda, does it evaporate, leaving behind the non alcoholic constituents of the drink? If you can answer either of those, I'll give you the money myself. It's 1215 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 20 minutes after twelve. I've got quite a dipsomaniac streak in my listenership this morning. Philip's been in touch with regard to that question about alcohol evaporating. He says, I think I had alcohol evaporation issues just this morning with my whiskey and coke. The booze must have gone because the ice melted overnight and diluted the grog. I drink too much, ain't no secret of that. I don't think I do, but everyone else does. But I would never wake up in the morning and polish off leftovers. I would never have leftovers, actually. What is wrong with you people? It's astonishing. But anyway, that's one of the questions on the board. Does alcohol evaporate even when it's in solution? That's the word. Dilution solution. And can you frog proof of garden zero 345-606-0973 and is in stains? Andy, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. My daughter Nancy would like to know. She asked me the other day, where does the phrase getting down off of your high horse? She's reading her book and she said to me, dad, what's that mean? I said, well, I tried to explain to her what I thought the meaning was, but why? So get over yourself. Doesn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Which is pretty much what I explained for her. But where does it come from? Isn't it? It'd just be physical, wouldn't it? Whoever had the biggest horse would be the snob in the. In the group. So come down off your big. You're not going to take that, are you, Andy? Nor should you. With all your education and training. You should know. You really should know better than that. Well, yeah, you're probably right, but it might turn out to be as simple as it sounds. But I'm not going to be able to go definitive because I'm speculating. So get down off your high horse. Me? Stop being so conceited. Yeah, okay. Yeah. How old's Nancy? She's 1313. Perfect. So she should be. She should be contemplating. And considering these things might give Wayne in Basildon a chance to get on air as well, with his encyclopedic knowledge of the brewers dictionary of phrase and fable. So I want the origins of the phrase getting off your high horse. Get off your high horse. I want to know whether you can frog proof a garden or how high a toad can jump. Or frog or you. Look, Helen was on for ten minutes. You could just help her. Will you? If you can. Zero. 345-606-0973 and the alcohol evaporation question. I like that. Havel is in Norbury. Question or answer? Havel question, please. Good afternoon. Hello. I would like to know why microwave ovens have dark tinted glass. Not a clear. So that you can see through easily. Yeah, so would I now. Actually, I think mine has. Mine got. Yeah. I mean, even ordinary ovens have a tinted glass, but the microwave is even darker. It really is dark, isn't it? Something to do with. I don't know, maybe it's not glo. Why am I talking? Have I. Yeah, I think there's no room for guessing here. Somebody should. That's very polite. You're very diplomatic, man. Have I like your style. Because you could have just said, james, shut up and get someone on who knows. I wouldn't say that. No, nor would I. Nor would I. I like you. Where do you stand on frogs? Actually, I've seen frogs in my garden and there are no ponds or any source of water around that area. No. Same here. Might be toad. They travel a long way. I think. I think. I think the next caller is going to. Is going to. She is Helen. It's going to be Helen's worst nightmare. But anyway, I'll get you an answer. Why do microwaves have such dark glass? Zero. 345-606-0973 take care. Have all. Doug's in Barnett. Question or answer, Doug. It's an answer, James. Go on, mate. So my garden is kind of. It doesn't have any ponds or any water around, but unfortunately it does have a lot of frogs. Why unfortunately? Why? People got a problem with frogs. A lot of people do. I love frogs. Yeah. So not, unfortunately, amphibians. Unfortunately for my wife and daughters. Oh, really? Oh, dear. And they're a little bit. Yeah, when they see them, it's, daddy, please help. Yes. But I have seen them many, many times, actually climbing fences, not on the flat surface of the fence, but where the fence connects to the wall or somewhere else. And, yeah, it doesn't matter how high, high. They're gonna find a way or they can climb. We could have sat. It's like a riddle, this. We could have sat there for hours because we automatically. As soon as she said, how high can a frog jump? Everyone's thinking of jumping. But actually that's what you should have done. You should have been like Sherlock Holmes and gone right back to the beginning and remove jump from the equation and simply ask how frogs get into gardens. Yes, but I mean, unfortunately for that lady, there's really not much she can do. I guess something might find a frog in there. Where are they coming from? Where are they coming from? Yeah, but the cats are badass because our cats bring frogs into the house and, I mean, Helen's already having sort of shivers once they find their way into the garden. They actually do end up spawning in the garden. So we've had tadpoles in the mud, for example. So they're very resourceful and industrious in terms of how they actually spawn. So, yeah, it's fascinating and they're a fascinating creature, but there's nothing you can do because it can climb. They can climb. So there's nothing you can do. Unless she creates a dome like structure in her garden, turns it into a sort of giant polytunnel. Yeah. I mean, if there's any positives for the lady, what they do is they do take out mosquitoes and flies and other insects, etcetera, so. But we're talking about a weapons grade phobia here, Doug, a little bit of mosquito management. It's not going to cut any mustard at all, is it? She needs to watch a bit of David Attenborough. Hopefully he can talk her around. Yeah, and then become. It's funny you should say that. I've actually got a picture of David Attenborough on my t shirt today. How weird is that? Brilliant. Seriously, I have. No one's going to believe me sometimes I'm on the radio. It's ridiculous. Doug, great work. Oh, hang on. Come back, come back, come back. Doug, you there? You know what you get now, don't you? Oh, Jonas. He still remembers. Thank you very much, Rob. Lady Jane. James. My first time calling in, I've got a bit of a head cold. Sorry if I sound a bit croaky. Jones is back. James is in Rickmansworth. James, question or answer? Afternoon, James. Question. Please carry on. I've been religiously listening to the podcast and there was a question recently that. But I wasn't recently. It was about a year ago that was asked. That wasn't answered. Yes, and it was. Why is my beard ginger? Well, someone rang in to ask a question about your beard. Well, no, not specifically my beard, but, yeah, it's something that all of my brothers have. There's no ginger in our family, but we all have Ginger beards and I have no idea why. My dad was the same. My dad cried, tired. Mum always used to joke about when he tried to grow a moustache shortly after they first met and it came out ginger. And my dad had jet black hair. What color is the rest of your hair. Same again. Jet black. Jet black hair and ginger jeans. Jet black hair and a ginger tash. Sounds like a sort of 1960s song. I'll find out. I mean, I don't know what the answer is. Going to be quite boring, though, isn't it? I can imagine. But, like, we all look really strange. Well, don't grow a beard, then. I mean, that's the thing. You should shave more. That. Do you get. I mean, have you got. Do you get ginger stubble even if. 05:00 shadow. No, actually, it's not. The stubble's fine. Yeah. Just when you start growing it out, it just turns. Ginger. Ginger central. Nothing wrong with gingers. But. But obviously, if you've got black hair on your head, you don't necessarily want a ginger beard on your chin. Basically. Yeah. I mean, you wouldn't want ginger eyebrows, would you? Be quite. Can look a little. A little bit Boris Becker. But he's got bigger. He's got bigger problems to worry about today. Mind. There you go, James. I'll get you an answer to that, I promise. How long ago was it? A year or so. It's been a long time coming. Let's see what we can do. Come on. Zero. 345-606-0973 gingerbeards. Hi. Horse done. The frogs. What else is on the board? This one. Alcohol evaporation. That's an urgent question that needs an answer. There's one other as well. I'll consult my notes. John's in Feltham. John, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, John. It's get off one tie horse. I was doing a project with my ten year old just after Christmas, and he asked me what high and mighty meant. So he went to the library and we researched it and it was pretty much what you said, that the rich people in those times wanted a more expensive and more higher horse than the commoners. So as they rode in, they would be looking down on the people that were less fortunate, themselves and high and mighty and get off your high horse are basically the same thing. Seems pretty. Seems pretty convincing to me. So literally would just be. You associated the local aristocrats with the people on the big horses, whereas. And they see themselves as more superior than obviously we. Yeah. And be looking down their nose. That probably comes from that as well. Well, looking down your nose that someone might have something to do with horses as well, you know. Well, my son asked me what the high and mighty thing, because they didn't look any bigger off the horse than they did on. So oh, yeah, of course. Library and researched it. Yeah. It's all down to the horses. It's all down to the horses. Do you remember where you found it, what book it was in, or anything like that? It was on a book of medieval England and it was to do with the nobleman and how they actually were assigned their land. Mate, you are a legend. Can I? Can I? Can I. Would you allow me to say that's top quality dadding? Oh, thanks very much. No, thank you very much for reminding the rest of us how inadequate we are when we help our children with their homework and their projects. Well, listen, the Internet is such an easy tool. But then again, if you actually have to look on the Internet, a couple of clicks at a button and you know it. Yeah, yeah. Well, that's what mystery hour is about. It's about the pleasure. The pleasure of discovery, the pleasure of knowledge. And look what. Look what it's got you. It's got you one of these. Okay, that. Very fine. Thank you very much. Nice one, John. Mind how you go. It's coming up to 12:30. Ginger beards, alcohol, evaporation. What else have we got? What else is on the board? Can we remember? Is there anything else before we could do it? Frogs, horses, ginger? I think we're all right. It's just the booze and the beard got still on the board. Which means there's room for loads more questions. Zero. 345-606-0973 John's in Perth. John, quickly, what? Question or answer? Oh, microwave doors as well. Come on, Jones, mate. Keep up with you. John, question or answer? Question. Go on. Have you ever been granted I like these questions. No. You've been disgruntled. I certainly have. Is there other words like that where you only get the dis and that? You don't know if this. Yeah, thinking of them. But I can't think of anything. No, nor can I. Pressure's on. It's like when you ask someone if they know any jokes, isn't it? Disgruntled? Gruntled. Gruntled. Can. Can gruntled be an adjective? Is there an adjective? Grunt or. I like it. I think we should start using it. No, I will. Yeah. I'm feeling very gruntled today. Are you? I am. No. Yeah. There you go. You got on the radio. Well, it's not get carried away. There you go. From gruntle to disgruntled. In 4 seconds flat, it's 12:30 Simon Conway has the headlines. Councils in mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1234 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour is underway. I love this, the ginger beards question. Richard's got in touch. So funny. It was my question about ginger beards that didn't get answered, James. It made me chuckle to hear it get mentioned again today. It must have been a long time ago, though, that I asked it as the ginger bits have now gone grey. Loving the show. Keep at it. Listening to mister turns your beard grey. Turns your ginger beard grey. Love it. Stick it on a t shirt. Tristan is in Bury St Edmunds, but question or answer, Tristan? It's an answer. Carry on. It's the microwave doors. Why that? They are tinted. Yes. They're not actually tinted. Basically, there's a sheet of metal on the inside of the glass with lots of little holes in it, and it's to stop the microwave radiation from escaping out through the door, out through the glass, so that otherwise. Within the microwave. Yeah, otherwise you'd be cooking yourself if you stood too near it. Yeah, that's right. Perfect answer, I think. Qualifications. I asked my dad when I was about 14, when we had a microwave, and he found out and told me that that's one of my favorite ever qualifications. Absolutely lovely. Have a round of applause. Great work. There you go. Two top dads there, Tristan's dad and John, who took his boy down the library to get an answer to the high horse. Question 1235 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Rachel's in Manchester. Rachel, question or answer? It's a question, Jane. Carry on. So, dog years. Why is it seven years? Right. Who made that up? Why did they make it up? And it applied to anything like, can you do like, cat years or frog years or. Why have we never had that before? What the hell are dog years all about? Is the question, really? Isn't it? Why is it one year or seven years in dog world? Maybe just to bring a bit of parity with humans. Like these aren't answers make sense when a dog reaches 15, you know, it's not like. I don't know. Well, my dog reached 20 and it wasn't 100. It wasn't acting like it was 150 human years. 140. I don't know what that is. No, no, you wouldn't. Why? Yeah. Who? I don't know what it is. Weird. Like what's going on? I don't know. Now you got me. You got me. There's another word. Discombobulated. Yeah. You never hear anyone say that. I am not combo. You are you? Don't sound combobulated. Gruntled. I shall make you gruntled, Rachel, by getting you an answer to this question. Dog years. It's just dog years. What's that about, then? Oh. 304 5606-0973 is gruntled a word? To be fair, that's not. I mean, I liked it because I'm a big fan of words and lots of people who listen to the program are, as well you. Jackie's already picked up on the combobulated. Well, Matt wants to know whether or not you can be whelmed, dismayed. Anyone ever been made? She don't answer that question. But, I mean, you could find out so easily whether gruntled was a word or not that. I won't take questions like that again, but I'll leave that one on the board. Alcohol evaporation in a. If you've got a gin and tonic and you leave it, will the gin evaporate, but the tonic remain because of the. Whatever it is, the scientific phrase. Why do people with black hair sometimes grow ginger beards? Microwave doors. We've done. And dog ears. What's that all about? Where are we going next? Stuart is in Orpington. Question or answer, Stuart. Oh, hello. It's a question. Please carry on. Stuart. Just been wondering if you've ever been detained at her Majesty's pleasure. Not yet. Do you actually receive a telegram when you're 100? I don't imagine there's ever been a hundred year old in jail. Well, I meant in or out of jail, really. Oh. What if you've been imprisoned and then let out again? Would you get a telegram? Why, mate? How old. How old are you and what you. What were you in for? No, no, no. Nothing to do with that. I'll just wonder. I have a friend. Of course you do. How old are you, Stuart? All right, so what is it? Is it people in prison? Or is it the question, if you've ever been to prison, do you still get a telegram off the queen when you turn 100? Yeah. What kind of. Is a sort of. You just, you know, if you haven't been in too long, you know, you can have one. I'm very intrigued, very intrigued by why you want to know about this, mate. It's just one of those stupid things. It so isn't, though. I'm not buying that for a moment. You've got someone in mind. I know you have, haven't you? No. No family, is it? Or just a mate? Just about. Let's find out for you. Anybody listening who's over 100 has been in jail. Did you get a telegram? Off to Queen Zero? 345-606-0973 thank you, Stuart. Paul's in Sydenham. Paul, question or answer? It's a few answers, actually. No, just the one that you cleared with Caroline. Okay, yeah, well, it's the alcohol one, and basically, I used to work in a bar, and alcohol does evaporate a lot quicker than other things. If you. If you deal with electronics, for instance, you might clean a circuit board with alcohol because it evaporates before any. Anything can go wrong. Yeah, no, I know. No, no, no, you've misunderstood. We know that alcohol evaporates. But does it evaporate when it's in a. In a solution with something like tonic water? Does the. Well, it evaporates quicker than water. So it would evaporate quicker than the tonic water would. So the rate of evaporation is a lot quicker. So if you work in a bar for exit, for instance, at the end of the night, all the bottles have to have caps on. No, but it's the. I know you're right about all of that, but it's. I don't know what the science is of the solution. Does it really evaporate? Does a solute? Because once it's dissolved, it's a liquid, and I don't know how a constituent part of that liquid can evaporate faster than another constituent part of the same liquid. Well, the alcohols are liquid in the first place. If you had them two separate separately in glasses, one would evaporate quicker than the other. If you mix them together, that one would still evaporate quicker than the other one. Are you sure? Are you sure? Yes. Because weights and measures, the people that stipulate that a drink has to be a certain volume at a certain amount of alcohol, stipulate that you have to have the bottles covered at the end of the night, otherwise the alcohol content changes and you can't sell that. Oh, no, sorry. That was relevant then, the fact that you have to leave the lids on, because it would be the alcohol that was evaporating, and then whatever else left in the whiskey would be staying behind. So it would be a less. So the lovely lady who rang in. Gin has evaporated overnight. James, would I be able to add to the microwave question? Oh, yes. Because I was a little bit brusque with you on the. On the. On the bottles thing, but don't spoil it. Don't take away anyone's round of applause. So. No, no, I wouldn't. The guy was right. It's got a mesh on it. And basically, the holes in the mesh are smaller than the wavelength, so the wavelength can't get through. You're very clever. And that's about it. And I've got another answer. No, let's leave it now. No, no, let's just take your round of applause, count your lucky stars. No, thank you. Hang on, Tony's in Kingsbury. Tony, question or answer? Answer. Go on. The word you're looking for is volatility. Ah, I didn't know that. Alcohol is volatile. Much more volatile than water, for example. So it would, in a mixture, drink out overnight, the alcohol will evaporate. But more importantly, your caller said it doesn't taste of gin and tonic. Yes, and the reason is because the. The extract of the berries that are used. Juniper. The gin. Juniper, they're also volatile. That's why you can smell them. That's why you smell gin. Oh. If you can smell it, it's evaporating. No, it's volatile. No, but if you can smell it, smell it, you what? No, that's what I mean. If the simple fact that you can smell it means that it's volatile, it means that it is evaporating. Oh, that's lovely. There's not so much evaporation. All right. Well, it is evaporation. Slightly different, but it's. Okay, so it's sublimation, then? No, sublimation is when something turns instantly from solid to gas. Yeah. It was a frozen drink. What are your qualifications? Scientists. I found you a couple of weeks ago. So, yeah, I like that a lot. Volatility. So it's not evaporation. That's the wrong word. Well, because volatility is a noun. What's the verb, then? What is happening to the alcohol as it makes its way from the glass to the. To the ether, to the. To the atmosphere? It is. Well, evaporation tends to be more for water, but for organics, it tends. Organic substances like alcohol, it tends to be more volatility. Yes, I know, but what's the verb to be? Volatile. No, no, I don't think there is a verb. Well, there you go. We should invent one, shouldn't we? Yeah, why not? It's volatizing. It's volatizing. Anyway. The best way is to put it in the fridge and cover it. Yeah, always round of applause for Tony, even though we like that you've embellished on the answer. I like that a lot. Grant, in Lewis. Grant. Question or answer? Answer. Go on. It's. It's the. Why do we get the occasional ginger hair in our beard? No, that wasn't the question. That wasn't the question. He's got black hair and a full ginger beard and a full ginger beer. All I know is from reading an article years ago, because I've got a good ginger friend and we used to do some research on great ginger facts. Yes, good. Good for you. All of the hairs that come out of the body have got a colored sheath over them, whether it's black or blonde or whatever, but ginger hair is the actual follicle underneath. So we all have ginger hair just with the various coloring over the top. And sometimes, if you get a genetic throw up in one of the. One of the hair follicles, it will come out without its sheath, and that's why we get the ginger hair come out. Wow. The really interesting thing is that this came from the police wanting to get a photo fit from DNA evidence at a scene where they really wanted to get a picture of someone from DNA, which is way in the future. But the very first thing they could do was hair colour, and the very first hair color they managed to achieve was whether the person was ginger. Well, I never. Who'd have thought that researching gingerness could have yielded such nuggets? I'm going to give you a round of applause, even though you didn't answer the question that we're trying to answer. I was just such a sort of general feeling of warmth. You left me feeling very gruntled, Grant. Good, good. I'm glad to keep up the good work. Thank you. And you. Everybody's gruntled Olive is in Epsom. Question or answer, Olive? Hello. It's a question. Carry on. You know, it's very hot at the moment. No, it's not, is it? Hang on, hang on. Wait there, Olive. Alert the news desk. Carry on. Anyhow, why is it when you drink a very hot cup of tea, it cools you down? Ah. I think I know this, but I usually explain it wrong. This. This takes me back to my days as a building site labourer. Olive? Oh, yeah, well, not very long days, but I did do it for a while up in Doncaster, and I presume when they sent me to get this teas, I bought them all the tea. I thought they were all mad. It's a hot day. We're building an extension on a little house near Skipton and they sent me to get the teas and I've got myself a coke from the fridge in the cafe and brought the teas back for the lads and they all laughed at me and explained to me that if you drink a hot drink, it heats you up, so your body starts trying to cool down. But you're not going to take that, are you? Well, I don't. I don't know. It seems a reasonable answer to me. Well, it's kind of right, but I don't sound persuasive enough and you're just being kind. Well, yes, that's true. Yes. I thought so. I will get you an answer if it kills me. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Why does a hot cup of tea cool you down in hot weather? Because theoretically it shouldn't. It's like two wrongs making a right. Hot plus hot equals cool. It really does. A hot drink cools you down more than a cold drink does in hot weather. At least, I think it does. Dog years. What's that all about? We're running out of time. We ain't got no answer. Jones is back. He's messed everything up. Alcohol evaporation with darn ginger beards. We haven't done so dog years. Hot cups of tea and gruntled. And the telegram for Stuart, Stuart's mate, who's done a stretch, but he's going to be 100 soon. Is he going to get a telegram? It's 1246 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's ten to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Let's crack on with the questions that are still in need of answers. Why do hot drinks cool you down in hot weather? Dog ears. Where do they come from? What are they for? What are they all about? I'd love to get an answer to that one. And ginger beards, it's another one as well. Was a grunt old? I think we kind of know it is a word, but if you can find it used in literature, I'll give you a round of applause. Alex is in print and on sea. Alex. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. It's an answer to the ginger beards question. I was. I've got to say, I'm very nervous. I'm so nervous my kidneys are hurt for some reason. And I'm nervous because. Because last time I ever called was the first time I ever called a show and it was a year ago and it was about ginger beers and it was the question about, why do we have ginger beers? Yeah. So, well, you've done it. You've. So you've answered it already a year ago. No, I asked it. Oh. But we've had that someone else has asked it as well. Richard asked it. A few believe it. I was heartbroken to hear that because it was my question. But he probably asked it years ago. You know what my memory is like he said, I can't believe there's only two. Two people have asked it at different times in history and they didn't get any answers. So have you got an answer now? I do. I discovered it after I didn't get an answer, unfortunately, on mystery. So I googled. I know, I know. Sorry. So I googled. I know, I know, I know. Don't worry. All right, so I googled it and I looked it up and I even heard it in a podcast as well, funnily enough. And it turns out that the body has recessive and dominant genes. Yes. And some people have recessive ginger genes that could have been down. Passed down the family for years and years and generations. Generations. And they don't really know what to do with themselves, so they pop out now and again in different parts of the body. So sometimes you get a ginger beard and a full ginger beard. Not. Yeah, you know, not the one or two little strands of hair full. I've got, like I said to you, lifetime, a full, full, full ginger beard. I mean, super red. Yeah. And the rest of the hair is, you know, dark brown or black, actually. I mean, my beard is a different color to my hair. It's just not as stark. So it is just simply the case that you really, really notice if it's ginger. You know, I grew up in Dubai, and in Dubai, a lot of the men, the pakistani men, would dye their hair with henna. Yes. It would go orange. And they used to think that I did it, but it was just natural. Oh, natural, oh, natural. Your henna beard. I like that. And I just got you a round of applause. So that's the first time ever anyone's answered their own question on mystery. Oh, I know. It's exciting. That really is exciting, actually. Come on. That's like history. This is incredible. It's like Ian both playing for Scunthorpe United and playing cricket for Somerset. You've done something sensational, Alex. Thank you. Thank you. No, thank you. That's brilliant. How are your kidneys before you go? They're feeling so much better. Thank God for that. Grunt 1253, Phil Teignmouth. Question or answer? It's an answer to dog years. Oh, yeah. What's that all about? Well, I've been. Many moons ago, I was in the vets with my guide dog, and somebody looked up this many vets have this chart for dog ears. Oh, do they? Apparently so, yes. My black lab was seven at the time. Yeah. In what? In what years? Normal human. Yeah. And on this chart, he was 52, a Jack Russell was 40, and a great Dane would be 70. Great Danes tend not to live much beyond ten labs, typically 13 or 14, where Jack ruffles can live till, you know, well into their teens. And it has no berry whatsoever on cats, because our cats regularly live into their late teens and early twenties. So what are they for? They're just made up, basically. But why? They have no bed. The bigger the dog, generally speaking, the bigger the dog. So something like a great Dane or sub Bernard or whatever. The shorter their life tend to be, sadly. And the smaller the dog, the longer their life. But we thought was all the same. We thought seven years per year for a dog. I mean, you've just made a complicated question even more complicated. Well, it's not complicated. It is complicated because you don't know why it was done in the first place. Is it so that you can normalize life expectancy, for example? Well, it probably is. You know, it's completely made up. It has no bearing. Then why is it on the wall in a veterinary surgery, then? It must be science. I am listening on the wall in the veterinary surgery, it said, if my dog at the time was seven in our lives. Yeah, yeah. And he was a black lad. Yeah, you said all that. I know all that. So had he been a little tiny dog, he would have been 14, but he wasn't. He was a medium. But why do they do it? Why is it? Why? Why? Phil? Phil. It's not. Oh, man alive. Poor girl in Manchester is going to be going out of her mind. She's going to be profoundly disgruntled. I'm going to give you a round of applause because you're top fella, all right? But you have to share it with your guide dog. Right, fair enough. Thank you. Carry on. Christian is in Brentford. Christian, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Christian. It's about the hot. What hot drinks cooling you down to do with. If you're making yourself feel hotter because of how you perceive temperature, it makes the hot weather feel colder. So if you, let's say you're ten degrees, hypothetically, and it's 20 degrees outside, if you make yourself feel hotter and make yourself hotter, the difference in temperature is less. So you don't feel the heat as much. Oh, yeah. Oh, I see. So it raises your temperature so I don't want to say raises your temperature, because obviously, if you're. I don't know if that's physically true, but it makes you feel temporarily hotter and then the temperature differences, so therefore you're not going to feel. So the heat on the outside of you is not going to feel as oppressive as it does when you've got more heat inside you. Yes. Qualifications? I'm a radiographer. It doesn't in any way answer how I know that qualification. I mean, you know, I've got a BSc, of all things. But how do you know what you just told us? It's just the thing I've found out over the years. All right, I'll give you that. I like it. It's nothing to do with sweat, obviously does cool you down. So a hot drink might make you sweat and that might cool you down, but no, a hot cup of tea doesn't make you sweat, does it? Really? Yeah, yeah, no, I like that. Anyway, you got your round of applause, Christian, good work. Paul is in home firth in West Yorkshire. Paul, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Go on, mate. It's this gruntled, disgruntled etymology. I like a little bit of etymology now and again. There's nothing sad about it, mate. Knowledge. Knowledge is power. Yeah. I watch Qi all the time and you go, oh. And then it makes you go off on a tangent. You think, oh, now this, you're right, obviously. Usually you're right and wrong. Okay, this, usually from the Latin, means the opposite of. So disallow. Not allowed. Yeah. But sometimes it goes back to middle English. It's later than that, around 1617. Hundreds. But this was starting to be used to mean very. Okay, so. So disheveled is another good, good example. It means very heavily. So does. But gruntled is a word, though. So gruntled in the past is an unused word meaning literally from grunt. Okay, very. You're very grunty. I'm disgruntled. Very grunty now, I think. Hang on a minute, I'm just gonna. I'm just gonna take some. Some outside. You're buying this, Sheila? Fuck, it's nice. She's not having it, Paul. So. And then I think, apparently, like, as a bit of a jokey, because people often think of this meaning opposite. Yeah. In the 1930s, people started jokingly using the word gruntled to mean happy. I think you've nailed it because it pops up in one of the PG Wodehouse books. Yeah. So in the thirties, it started to be happy, but really. Oh, no, this is strong. This is meaning very and it's just from the word grunt. And I think back in the Middle East, I gruntle might mean, you know, you just. You just a bit of a dirty pleb, Paul. I'm going to give you a round of applause. Wow. Speaking of dirty. Controversial. I like it. It, though, because it is in one of the woodhouse books. But that explanation explains why I think it does. It's likewise like gormless, isn't it? People without any gore gone. My dad used to know Yorkshire people talk about gorm. Do they? Yeah. So if someone has no gorm. Yeah. I'm pretty sure that what does have gone. No Ruth. No Ruth. Ruth is in the Bible. It's a name, though. No, I think there's Ruth. You should demonstrate. Ruth. I think I could be. I could be making it all up. This is what happens when you dare to engage with. With mystery hour. Sheila Fogarty. Indeed it is. Right back in your corner. You know Jones the engineer is in the house. I do. Should we fire it up? Should we fire up the fogarty? Thanks.