Why do I go deaf when I yawn? - 17 Sep 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC four minutes after twelve. Very good afternoon to you. Yes, it is that time again. Mystery Hour is upon us, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction routinely denied to listeners of any other radio program on the planet. We deliver closure. We deliver knowledge, we deliver enlightenment, and we do it hopefully with a few laughs along the way. Don't say my word for it. Look at the numbers of people that download the podcast, or indeed are rude enough to tell me when I bump into them outside of the studio that they only really tune in on Thursdays from twelve outrageous behavior if you've got a question that needs an answer, the number you need is 0345-6060 I'll give you a little bit more explanation and then I will invite you to pile in. By explanation, all I mean is a quick heads up for people who are new. You'll be able to work out how it works yourself fairly quickly. But the newspaper columns probably where it all began, where readers write in with a who, a why, a what, a where, a when, or a wherefore. Even a wither. In fact, I got a mystery out question on Twitter last week that said, has any mystery out question ever began with a wither? It hasn't. Take that as a challenge. That's your starter for ten this hour. Can you give me a mystery question that begins with a wither? Any interrogative pronoun? The more recondite the better. And the point is this, you don't know the answer to the question, but you're pretty certain there is an answer. You don't want to google it or look it up because life is becoming too dependent upon search engines and keyboards, smartphones and technology. We want to return to the salad days, the halcyon days of education and enlightenment, when the friend could give you the answer that you needed to a question rather than a device that sits in your pocket for the rest of the day. I want you to ask a question that you know has an answer, but you want an answer to have a human feel to it rather than a technological one. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. We're going to try and get a question off Twitter every single week. I say that I will do my best to include people who are listening on the podcast rather than listening live. And every single week, I completely forget. Different. Then again, it might be not. I can't make any promises. I suppose history would suggest that I'll forget once again. But if you have submitted a question with the hashtag mystery hour or Twitter mystery hour, I'll do my best to get it on the board, or to at least get one of them on the board in the course of the next 53 minutes. Should we start in Holland? That's where Nick is, in Zandam in the Netherlands. Nick, what's your question? Hi. Hello. Good afternoon. I'm not feeling very well at the moment. It's not the medical hour, mate. It's mystery hour. Yeah, but I'm wondering about. It's getting colder outside. It is going into winter. Why does the planet actually move on its axis? What does that and does it happen to all the planets in the solar system move on its axis? As in revolve? No, as in, of course it revolves around the sun, but it tilts. Obviously, were tilting away from the sun because were going to winter. The southern hemisphere, obviously the opposite, and six months later were going to be tilting the other way. What makes the planet tilts? I'm trying to visualize. Are you sure you've got this right in terms of interplanetary movement? No, I'm going to say a phrase which ordinarily leads to epic embarrassment. Okay. Jones the engineer thinks you've got this all wrong. Oh, it does. It doesn't tilt one way or the other. Apparently, it goes around the sun. And then sometimes we'll be near the sun, or we're facing in the right direction, and sometimes we won't. Still a valid question, he says. Backtracking horribly, but not, not tilting to and away from the sun. That doesn't make sense to me. No, nor me, actually. I knew this was going to end in tears. Why do I ever listen to him? Ten years he's been burbling in my ear and I've never learned to ignore him. I haven't got the right. Let's try to help us to. Why do we have seasons is what you're asking? Yeah. Well, yeah, but also, basically, it comes down to the physical thing. I'm convinced that the planet does. Why do we have seasons? And do all planets have seasons? What does that. You know? Well, you can only have one question. And if this. If I'm trying to help you here, Nick, if the premise of your question was flawed, I'm going to turn and turn it into an unflawed question. Why do we have seasons? And I'll let you have the supplementary. Do other planets have them, too? It's the deal. I'll take that. Yeah. While you're here, I need some help with a dutch related inquiry from about three weeks ago. Do you feel. No, I'll do my best. Okay. Are you of dutch extraction or are you an expat living there? I am an expat living here 32 years. So you speak a bit of the Dutch? A little bit of the Dutch. Are you familiar with the phrase hunky dory? Yes. Do you know where it comes from? I have no idea, thank you very much. I was told Holland, but that doesn't necessarily mean that everyone in Holland would know why. Nick, we'll get you an answer to that if it kills us. It's nine minutes after twelve. Why do we have seasons on Earth? And do other planets have them, too? James is in Wellingarden city in Hertfordshire. James, question or answer? It's a question. But first of all, I'm Dutch and it means nothing to me either. Oh, this is just getting. What are the odds on that? Hey, how Dutch are you? Igbonatellas blimey, that's pretty dutch fair play. So. Right, well, maybe we need to park the hunky dory thing. I've just got it stuck in my sort of mental craw for some reason. What's your question, James? Right, okay. I've been wondering about this for years, but I was watching mastermind the other week, and in this specialist round, somebody's asking questions about, or asked questions about. Catherine of Aragon. Yes. Next person. About the rock band Rush. Yes. You can't equate the two. So how do they check in the specialist rounds that the questions are of equal difficulty? Then they just have to take the expert's word for it. So they have trusted experts and. Oh, mate, this is a brilliant question. This is a brilliant question, but I don't think it's got an answer. But if you're an expert in Catherine of Aragon. I'm an expert in rush. How would one party know that the two questions are of equal difficulty? I think they sit us both down, right, you and me, and they say, all right, James. Katherine of Aragon, expert. All right there, James? Dutch rush, expert. And they say, come up with the hardest questions you can. There must be a formula. It's a brilliant question, but, I mean, who would know the answer? One of the experts. Well, they have to put the program together. If you build it, they will come. It's probably a mastermind question setter listening to this program at the moment. Why are you laughing? Everyone else is listening, not laughing. Yeah, well, I hope so. What would your specialist subject be? Well, you know, I know a bit about metals trading. You've asked. I've answered some questions about gold before. The value of gold. So your specialist subject would be metals. Metals. Blimey. Go. You're biting off a lot there. Let's find out. How, on mastermind, do they make sure that the specialist subject questions are of equal difficulty? That's one of my favorite questions of all time. But often with my favorite questions, they turn out not to have answers. And the questions I think are stupid turn out to have really clever and brilliant answers. Which brings us back to Nick and his seasons. Emma is in Hammersmith. Emma, question or answer? Is that me? No, I don't know. Is your name Emma? Is your name Emma? No, it's not. It's not, because I've got a really stupid question. So you've used a false name? Yes, I have. And you forgot what false name you'd used? Well, I didn't think I was in Hannah Smith. Where did you think you were? So you're not Emma and you're not in Hammersmith and if you don't even know your own name, how can I trust that you know where you are? No, I know where I am. But anyway, to the point. No, this is the point. Why are you using a false name and a false location? It's mystery hour. It's not exactly controversial. Okay, all right, give me a question. So you were talking about nuclear weapons this week and I was just picturing the scenario of someone pushing the button. And so who. Who. How does. How does the other country know when the button has been pushed and if it really has been pushed? When someone's lying or someone pretended that they pushed, you know, that's not why. It's not a stupid question at all. Why don't you use your real name? I don't know, it's just a bit embarrassing. Why is that embarrassing? I don't know the answer to that. I'm not embarrassed. How do they. How do you know that there's definitely a nuclear weapon heading towards you? Yeah. And then do you press your button straight away or do you think. No, no, you're only allowed one question. How do you know for certain there's a nuclear bomb coming towards you? Yeah. And then if. And then if you don't, well, then what is. No, no, when I said you're only allowed one question. That meant, don't ask any more questions after that one. Okay? All right. Was that your phone buzzing there? Yes, it was. Are you running out of juice? No, no. It's just people are calling me, all right. Saying there's a woman on the radio, sounds just like you, but she's lying about her name. Is that you, Doris? It could be. Let's find out for you. It's 1213. Tony is in Crawley. Tony. Question or answer? I have a question for you, James. Come on, then, Tony. The thing is, why do people, including myself, drink tomato juice on airplanes? Including yourself? I've worked behind bars, and tomato juice collects dust on the shelves. I never see people buy in supermarkets. Rarely do I see in a pub, people ask for a bloody Mary. But on airplanes, loads of people order it. They can't get enough of it. And I do a lot of business travel. And apart from the booze, there are three cartons on the trolleys. There's always orange juice, apple juice and tomato juice. And everyone goes for tomato juice. I don't know why. Well, that doesn't have any answer to your question. Because there's only three to choose from. If you fancy a juice, it's supply and demand, right? So people must want it in order to order it. I don't know, actually. I know. I don't know if it is supply and demand. Well, I order it. I'd rather have a martini. But they're not stocking up on martinis, are they? They're giving us what's easiest for them. Tomato juice. I think there must be something scientific. Why do you order. Why do you. Why are you asking me? I never have tomato juice on a plane, and I often order bloody marys in pubs. Why do you have tomato juice on a plane? I just don't know that. Well, let's. Let's take you back. Close your eye. You're not driving, are you? At the moment, I'm not driving. Right. Imagine you're on an airplane. I'm on an airplane. Feeling thirsty. Very thirsty. And a little bit hungry. Not particularly, but I'm very thirsty. Okay. And here comes the trolley. Yep. Don't fancy booze. Fancy an apple juice. And then the fella next to me orders a tomato juice. I think you know what? I could do with one of them. So are we. Are we knocking at the door, Tony, of there being something about plane travel that excites parts of our palate, that don't routinely get excited at other times. That's what I think. Like something in the air conditioning or such as the tomato juice seems more appealing. One on an aeroplane. Kind of umami type. Umami, yeah, exactly. So it's that kind of taste that being at 30,000ft makes you want to try it. I think you might be onto something there. Although glancing at my list of questions, there's a very real possibility that all four of them are fundamentally unanswerable. That's why I love mystery hour. We'll be back after this. This is LBC. 21 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to mystery hour with me, James O'Brien, on LBC. Questions currently in need of answers are why do we have seasons? The line about the axis, it was kind of true. Get stuck down in the first question. It's always a bad sign. Why do we have seasons? It's to do with a 23.5 degree tilt from the vertical that the axis of the earth sits on. But why? And do other planets have them? How do they make sure that the specialist subject questions on mastermind are equally difficult across such a wide array of subjects? How do you know for certain that someone has fired a nuclear weapon at you? Very topical question, that, from Emma, whose real name is not actually Emma, and who called from Dagenham but told us it was Hammersmith? And why do we drink tomato juice on planes when we very, very rarely drink it anywhere else? I like all of those questions. If you can answer them, you know what to do. Zero 345-606-0973 please don't forget that global's make some noise day is fast approaching. In just seven days, on Thursday, October 8, we'll be raising money for LBC's charity to give a voice to small projects in London and throughout the UK. This week, we'll be telling you how you can bid for some amazing money. Can't buy auction prizes, including an amazing day behind the scenes here at LBC and a fantastic holiday to Washington DC. So do help us make a difference. You can go to LBC dot co dot UK to download our dress loud pack and to find out how you can be part of something really special on Global's make some noise day, October 8, globals make some noise with just text giving by Vodafone. Back to my phones now. Kathy's in whitstable. Cathy, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on, Kathy. Well, why? It's silly, actually, but never say that. No. Well, I know what you're like. Let's start again. Now. You can't say it's silly. I want. Have you got. Come on. No, but we got. No, I was listening to you on Monday. Oh, yeah. Can't remember who you speaking to. That's how much I love you. It doesn't matter, does it? You said that's that person's nickname. So where does the saying nickname come from? And who's Nick? What was that? Who was I talking to? Why would I mention nicknames? What happened on Monday? I don't know. I think it was politics or something. Oh, dear. Yeah, I know it. Yeah, I know, I must have wondered. Nickname. Nickname, yeah, I like. Did you know? That's a lovely question. Is it? And sort of the nick of time. In the nick of time. Wind your neck in now. All right, that was a lovely question. I didn't. When I say that was a lovely question, it doesn't mean. Why don't you ask me a few more? No, but I want to know who Nick is. Yeah, that's fine. Just don't talk about the nick of time or nicknick. Yeah, nickname. So where does that come from? I've never heard of it before. What is a nickname? Oh, you know, I've got nickname. What is it? Bearing in mind it's a family program and it's 24 minutes after twelve, Kathy. All right? My name's Dots. Is it? Yeah, but it's Catherine. Really? Why do they call you Dot? Because they reckon I'm like dot cotton out of EastEnders. Isn't that cruel, cheeky little beggars? So it's like a nickname. You know what I mean? A nickname. Well, is it like a name? That's not your real name but people call you anyway? Yeah. Oh, and people say, oh, that's a nickname? Yeah. Have you heard it? No. Did I hear a bloke on the radio on Monday say it? No, you said it. You speak into. Yeah. You were speaking to someone and you said, maybe they should give him a nickname. All right, doc. All right, thanks, James. Leave it with me. I love listening to you, James. I love listening to you, Doc. Yes, thank you. Let's get her an answer quick. It's 25 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James and dot on LBC. Shams is in the city, not the Shams. Hi, James, mate. You're famous. You're famous. You're famous. No, you're proper famous. It's only a few thousand. Well, you say a few thousand. I had a meeting yesterday with the sales or the advertising department and all they could talk about was the cat funeral call. Probably the funniest call that's ever been made to this radio station. Well, thank you, James. Well, it was a partnership from. Also very poignant. Also very poignant. I wouldn't want you to think. I only remember the funny side. I remember the cat based concern as well. No, it was the God based concern. The God based concern as well. Yes. Anyone who doesn't know what Shams and I are talking about, head over to LBC dot co dot UK now and look for the cat funeral call. I promise you won't regret it. In the meantime, Shams, question or answer? It's an answer. But first, I also work for a dutch bank and I went into work and asked about hunky dory. They all looked at me as if I was not a mad englishman. So, hang on, how did they look at you when you told them the cat funeral story? I haven't. I've kept that very quiet. Yeah. No one else knows. Just you and me, shams. All right, I'm dropping hunky dory, then. I don't think it's got anything to do with Holland. I apologize for that appalling red herring. Okay. The answer to the nuclear weapons. Oh, yeah. Two strains. The firstly, there's the land based nuclear weapons, and the second one, which is more based around Trident, but we'll get to that. The land based ones, they're satellites that obviously circle the earth. They know their locations and they monitor for any heat signatures and also any seismic events, because a rocket taking off creates a huge seismic event, in the sense of like a mini earthquake. But that would tell us that a rocket had been launched. It wouldn't tell you whether or not it had a nuclear warhead on it. No, but it be. You'd use intelligence. It's been launched from an area where we know that nuclear warheads are used. It's the kind of rocket is. But you would never actually. This might be where we end up. You could never know for absolute certain that there was a nuclear bomb coming towards you. But better safe than sorry. Let's blow it out the sky anyway. Yes. They would take it out with jets or whatever. The. The reason we've tried and why countries are willing to pay billions and. And trillions into such a defense system is the fact that from a submarine, it's very difficult for them to pick up when the missiles being launched, because obviously it's underground. Underground. That's some submarine you've got there, mate. Underwater. Oh, I'm on medication at the moment. So that's why they're willing to pay trillions of dollars for such a system just to give them the advantage. Maybe an hour, 2 hours, not even for them to deploy any attack or defense. But it would eventually be picked up either by the satellites or also by land based air traffic control systems such as. But it would be that it would be the carrier that was identifiable because of the seismic event or the size of the eruption when it launched. You would never know for certain whether or not there was a nuclear warhead on board. You just would presume there was because they told you either unintentionally or intentionally. Yeah. Love it. Qualifications? Discovery Channel on the geek. That will do nicely. Shams. It's earned you this, mate. That's the first one today. Yes, it is. There you go. See? Shams, a man of impeccable integrity and intelligence. Zero 345-606-0973 of you. I told you. Why are you surprised that that was the first one today? I told you. The first four questions on the board might all be unanswerable. Why do we have seasons? How do they make sure on mastermind that the specialist subjects are of equal difficulty questioning wise? And why do we drink tomato juice on planes? Also, Kathy wants to know, why do we call a nickname? A nickname? Billy, you really need to get out more. Billy can remember what I said on Monday involving nicknames. He says you wanted to know why they called Cameron Puff when he was at Eaton James. I didn't. Billy, I think I know why they called Cameron Puff when he was at Eaton. But that is exactly right. That would have been the nickname I referred to. Zero 345-606-0973 shall I squeeze in one more? Can we squeeze in Andrew in Leicester quickly, before the news, or will I be pushing? Let's find out. Andrew, can you ask your question in 43 seconds? Yes, go on then. Numbers on a telephone and numbers on a calculator are in a different order. I'm wondering why that is. You know you've got the top line on a telephone. One, two, three. And the top line on a calculator, 789. And it's the same on a computer keyboard as well. Yeah, I like that reason behind it. Yeah, you're on. Why is the arrangement of numbers on a telephone on a smartphone? On a modern phone, you know, a push button phone, the opposite, in a way the inverse of how they're arranged on a calculator. Zero 345-606-0973 if you can answer that one. Yeah. And he did it as well. He came in on time as well. Give the man a medal. I'd say a round of applause. We haven't got time for that because we've got to do this. 33 minutes after twelve, you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Look at the last three texts that have come into the studio. Hi, James. Calculator versus telephone question has been done on mystery hour before, but I can't remember the answer. Ha. I recall that the calculator and phone touchpad numbers has previously been asked about a year ago. This is from Nick, who also can't remember the answer. And there you go, James, you had the keypad question on last year and I can't remember the answer either. Nor can Jones and I. We remember. So anyway, here are the questions still in need of answers. Why do calculators and telephones have different arrangements of the same numbers? What's the origin of a nickname? Why do you call it a nickname? Why is it a nickname? Why do you crave tomato? Why do you drink tomato juice on planes? Have I just given away the answer without realizing? Do you actually crave it? Perhaps for a biological. No, surely you not. How do they make sure the questions on mastermind specialist subject are equally difficult, even though you might be hearing one answering questions about the prog rock band rush and someone else answering questions about Catherine of Aragon and seasons. How do they work then? Bill's in St. Helens. Bill, question or answer? Can I answer, James? Come on, Bill. Hello. Hello, mate. Bring it on. Oh, okay. I just didn't know you were ready. An expression of approval for hunky dory. That's where hunky dory comes from, an expression of approval. No, I know what it means, mate. I want to know. I know what hunky dory means. It's the origins of the phrase that we're puzzled by. Right, okay. Where does it come from? It's an elaborate form of honky. You reading this? You're reading this? I certainly am, yeah. That's not allowed, mate. That's the first rule of mystery. Are you not allowed to read stuff? Someone should have explained that to you. Like me, Jenna is in harrow. Jenna, question or answer the question. You're not reading, are you? No, no. It'd be a miracle if you were. What's your question? Okay, this is from my son, Hardy. Actually. He's been asking me to call you about this. Is he there now? No, no, he's at school, but he told me. How will you prove to him that you got through? He won't believe you think you're just making it up like you do all the other stuff. No, no, I've got podcast. Don't worry. Okay. Well done. Okay. Hi, Hardy James here, talking to your mum. What's the question, Jenna? Okay, how do things glow in the dark? What's he got? What do you mean, what's he got that glows in the dark? What prompted the question? Oh, he's got, you know, those stars and moons on the ceiling. Yes, I do indeed. So how do they glow? So it's fluorescence or some fancy word like that, but he actually wants to know how it works. Yeah, he's into all the hows and whys at the moment. Um, I like it. The, uh. Can I actually. How old is he? Have you discovered slime on YouTube yet? Slime? Okay, if you like. My seven year old now is making her own slime on a daily basis. It's not. I'm not necessarily giving you a bit of good news here or doing you a favor, but the fun that she is deriving from mixing together some sort of weird chemicals and detergents to make genuine, proper slime that really slimes all over the place, I've got a feeling hardy would love it. Actually. He's actually done it. You know, the mad science camp. Yes, but you don't need to do them. You don't need to pay. You can just get online, have a look. They use normal shampoo and tool, toothpaste and stuff. Okay, what's it called? Slime. Just. Just good. Just go. Go. Looking for slime. I want to make slime. And let me know how you get on, okay? Definitely. And I'll get you an answer to the glowing in the dark question. In the meantime, 1236 is the time. Thank you, Jenna. Richard is in Acton. Question or answer, Richard? Answer, hopefully. Good man. The seasons, right? When you were a kid, did you ever play with a spinning top or a gyroscope? I never had one, but. But Philip. What was his name? I can't remember his surname now. He did, and I was always very jealous. Right, well, when you spin them, they generate, like, a force, and you try and you hold the gyroscope in your hand, and you spin it up to full speed, and you tilt it, and then it returns to its default position. It does. Now, the same thing happened when the. When the earth formed 4 billion years ago. Roughly. Yeah. The day length on the earth was 10 hours, so it was rotating very fast and therefore could not wobble very much on its axis. Now the moon is slowing the earth down, lengthening the day and increasing the wobble to the point that 400 million years ago, 450 million years ago, the day length was about 21 hours. Today it's about 24. And the wobble is increasing as the day length increases and the rotation on its axis slows down. And in a billion years time, when the sun ends its main sequence phase and goes into a red giant, the earth day will be about 40, 40 hours long and the moon will be twice the distance away from the sun. So the gravitational. Hang on. Just. I'm not going to lie to you, I kind of drifted off a bit in the middle of that. Did you. Did you do the season's bit and then start banging on about 40 hours, days? Or did you skip out the seasons in the middle? The seasons are because the earth wobbles more on its access. Yeah. Therefore, the British Isles, for the sake of arguments, is moving away from facing the sun as we move into winter. When we move into summer, the wobble carries the British Isles so that it faces the sun more. So the question wasn't remotely stupid at all. It was brilliant. And when Joan said in my ear, this fellow's got it all wrong, he was talking out of his backside, as usual. Yeah. Never give him a round of applause. I never will again, actually. It's unbelievable. Behead. Other planets have seasons too. Well, there you go. You've gone down. Hang on. Qualifications? I was told by a researcher to say Renaissance man. I'm actually an art. I'm actually an arts graduate. But how did. Where did you pick up this information? That's all I need to know. I'm interested in science. Yeah, there you go. That's fine. The totality of the universe is betrayal of the intellect. Good grief. Me too. Seriously. 1239. Adrian's in Crawley. Question or answer, Adrian? Answer. Yes, answer. It's the tomato juice one. Why do we. Why do we drink tomato juice on planes and never drink it anywhere else? Well, it's a couple of reasons, really. Generally, people don't have tomato juice in their, you know, cupboards at home, along with all the condiments like Worcester sauce, so. But on a plane, they're all available, so you've got. It's all there to hand, oyster sauce, etc, etc. And then when someone has it at the front of the cabin, the rest of the cabin are all watching the drinks. You're not having this? No. No chance. No chance. No, no, no. Stand on me. No way. No. I know. It's the truth. All right. Qualifications? Cabin crew for 18 years. Doesn't prove it, mate. Sorry, I'm going in on this. You're not having it? No, no, it's. Honestly, I tell you what, if one person has a tomato juice tonight when I go to work and they're in the front row, everybody else will have it, and I'll be using three or four cartons. Yeah, but that doesn't. That doesn't. That doesn't prove anything. You're trying to link causation to correlation. There's no. There's no necessarily. People fancy a tomato juice on a plane, and then they don't fancy it when they get home. I've got all the condiments in the cupboard. I could just pop into budgings on the way home. When I buy a pint of milk, I could easily buy some tomato juice. I've got the tabasco, the Worcester sauce. I've even got a stick of celery in the bottom of the fridge at the minute. But I never do. I kid you not, mate. I kid you not. You're not having it. There's no way that you just say, why do so many people drink tomato juice on planes? And your answer is, because it's there. They don't. They don't know. That's just that last night, I just came back last night, nobody had one smart juice. So you think. You think it's a domino effect? It is. It's definitely a domino effect. Last night, everybody drank water. Everybody had water. They. People go, what should I have? What should I have? And by the time you put them under pressure and go, what do you want? Yeah. And I go to my. That's pretty much it. And I don't even like tomato juice. But give me a tomato juice now. People want to try it because they don't have it in the cupboard. Tomato juice. You better give me a tomato juice. I don't like tomato juice, but I want tomato juice. Oh, yeah. They end up giving it back anyway. I've given something else because I don't like it. I gotta tell you, mate, I'm wobbling now. Well, you know what? Do you want to know something funny? Hang on. If someone else comes out with a better arm. No, I might well do that. But do you want to know something funny? Did you hear my exchange with the caller before you about my colleague, Jones, the engineer? And about him burbling in my ear and always, always leading me astray? Do you know what he just did? What? Just burbled in my ear again? I said, oh, I really like this one. Give him a round of applause. I thought, what? Does the man never listen to anything I say on the program? Does he never learn? 18 years of experience, James. 18 years of experience has got to count for something. It does have to count for something. Why do we drink some more? You can't reject me out of hand. Well, I was hoping that you'd say something like, well, there's an iron deficiency that's brought on by air travel because of the nature of the air conditioning and the fact that we're breathing recycled air for a significant period of time. And your body's craving iron. There's iron. Your bud wants iron. Iron. Any old iron. And it can get iron out of the tomato juice. So even without realizing it, were you on short haul last night? I was, yeah. Yeah, you see? So if you'd been on long haul, they'd all had tomato juice. No, they wouldn't. Yeah, they would. They will have wine. Yeah, good point. I'm going to give you half a round of applause. I'll give you the other half at the end. Half? Oh, come on. That was better than nothing, wasn't it? Did you hear it? Or were you too busy saying half in a high pitched voice? No, no, no. All right, I'll take the half. I'll take the half. Well, you've had it now. You've already had it. Oh, all right. Yeah, well, I. Go on an hour half. That's good. Yeah, you've already had it. It's gone. I'll be listening for the other half at the end of the show, though. Conan's in Hackney. Conan. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on, mate. I'd like to know what causes our sort of. I think it's our nerves or veins that are twitching. So generally when I'm tired, I notice it. I sort of get a twitching up my eyelid and last night I was in bed and I started getting a twitch in my. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Family program. I promise you it's not a medical question. I'm sure there's something that causes it, but it just feels like your nerve, like your veins wobbling and it stops and then it's not you miss mean, like a twitch, a tick. So. So it feels like someone's. Someone's got a bit of cotton stuck to your skin and they're pulling it and your skin's going. Worry? No, no, it just feels like something. It's like your. Have you never had, like a little twitch in your eye and it just feels like the. The vein in your eyes flickering? No, never. No. Well, I get it when I'm tired and it's like, I know, I know my friends get it and it gets really irritating. I'm sure. I'm sure there's a. What do you mean? Flick? I mean I get a toy. You don't mean a twitch? No, I'm not twitching. No, it's not a twitch. It's your is. I can sometimes see on my hand where you're sort of. You see your veins and they sort of flicker. You mean. You mean underneath your eye and it kind of like palpitates? Yes. Yeah, I do get that. But yesterday it was happening my leg, and I'm like, well, it only happens when I'm tired. In your leg, mate, that's smallpox. I want to know what causes it. Thank God you laughed, then. I don't know what I was thinking of. I don't know what else it is back then. If in doubt, laugh it out. That's my motivation. That's it. Right, so you mean that's like a wobbly palpitation under your eye and it spreads a bit when you're tired? Everybody knows what you mean. Involuntary muscular convulsion. Okay. Apparently. We'll try and get you an answer. We got a lot of questions still needing answers and a lot of answers I wasn't even that happy with. We must find out what a nickname is. Come on. We'll start ticking them off. I think after this. It's eleven minutes to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. You know the motto of the program. If you build it, they will come. Usually works. It's failed today. I'm a bit embarrassed we haven't taken a call. Think from any question setters on masterminds. So we may not get an answer. There's ten minutes to achieve this. To the question of how do they make sure that the questions in the specialist subject round are of equal difficulty when the subjects are so disparate and diverse? You can answer questions on Heidi High, the comedy series, and you could be up against someone who's answering questions on the work of Kierkegaard. And yet somehow they all seem to be playing on a level playing field. I don't know how they do that. Tomato juice on planes. I want more than I've been given. But maybe that is the answer. It's just, why do we drink tomato juice on planes when we don't drink it anywhere else? Because it's there, James. We see someone else order it and we decide to have it I hope there's more to it. I wanted a bit of biology. Where do nicknames come from? Why nick in the context of a nick name? And why do things glow in the dark? And why are telephones and calculators arranged so differently? We need to crack on, don't we? Where are we going first? Let's go to Abby, who's in Bedale in North Yorkshire. Yes, carry on. I've got an answer for you, James. Bring it on, Abby. Why do things glow in the dark? Anything. Yes. The answer is they contain little chemicals called phosphors, whatever it is. And they actually are energized by uv light. So during the day they absorb all that uv light and at nighttime they emit all that energy as visible light. Are they naturally occurring? They can be, yes. You can see them in jellyfish and stuff like that. Yeah, exactly. And, you know, because they live, obviously, so far down in the sea. Yeah. So they are naturally occurring, but obviously we can make them to put in things like glowing the dark star. And that is why, when you're glowing, the dark stars are looking a bit tired. The best thing you can do is leave the lights on. Yeah. And let them recharge. Almost. You used to get in the eighties. We actually hold them to the light. Yes, that's right. They're a bit more sophisticated now. Will that be enough, do you think, for the eight year old? I think so. Phosphors. You did know. It's good. And your qualifications are? I was a science teacher for a long time and I now run one of those companies that run science workshops. You've just told everyone not to pay for their services. What's your slime recipe? Oh, good old fashioned cornflour and water. You need Borax. Well, yeah, Borax. You can find it and you can find it if you've got a dad like me. Thank you. There's a lot of abbies. And I was going to do an awful joke then, so I know North Yorkshire quite well. All right, okay. Well, we're new here, so. Are you enjoying it? I am, it's lovely. Very good. I won't do my joke about all the abbeys in North Yorkshire, then. No, I have heard that one already. Have you really? Oh, you're very lucky to mix with such erudite and informed people. I was saying revo fountains. I could go on forever. Round of applause for Abby. Thank you very much, James. Quick plug for your company, seeing as I've already been rude about it. Okay, love science. There you go. It's 1252. Stephanie's in Birmingham. Question or answer, Stephanie, from one end of the country to the middle of it? Answer. It's the answer to the question about telephone keypads, if I remember correctly, it's got something to do with, perhaps, calculators being invented first for accountants, and naturally they would key in numbers from. With the lower numbers being at the bottom of the keypad and the higher numbers being at the top. But then when telephones were invented, they, along with the numbers came letters. So the number two represents ABC. You know, no, telephones were not invented after calculators. Well, I said, if I remember correctly. Well, how can you? I mean, telephones have been around since Alexander Graham Bell. Yeah, yeah, you're right there. I've remembered the answer while you were talking and I haven't had a round of applause yet today. Oh, no. Should we share it? I don't mind. Well, you obviously do go on, you carry on with your wrong answer, then. Yes, with telephones and numbers. And the letters are. It made sense for the lower numbers to be at the top of the keypad along with the letters and then the higher numbers towards the bottom with nine representing WXYZ. How do you think? Yeah, I mean, are you expecting a round of applause? Maybe half? Nah, it's not going to happen, is it? What? Do you have something to add to that? Well, it's something to do with the. We goes back to the phones that you've forgotten about, which are the ones that didn't have keypads, the ones where you had to dial it and. Yeah, because the zero, what was next to the metal bit on the phones that you had to dial, which way round did they go? It's, it's. Anyway, it's to do with that. It's to do with. It's to do with. With properly replicating the arrangement of the numbers on a dial phone, where the nine would be at the bottom and the. How's this working out for you? Because I just took the mickey out of you for being rubbish and I think I've just raised the bar on rubbishness a few notches. I wouldn't disagree with you there. No, I'm right. So what, you'd have. The one would be first on a push on a dial phone, so that. Because the nine was quite low down the bottom, so you could dial 999 in the dark. Could you? Yeah. I don't think this is going. No, I'll tell you what, let's pretend this call never happened. Give Stephanie a round of applause. That's hush money. All right? That's hush money. That's just so that you. If anyone asks you, this never happened. Sure, carry on. Thank you. Steve's in Epsom. Steve, what would you like to say? I'd like to give you an answer, if I may. Yeah, go on. To nicknames. Yeah. It comes from Father Christmas. What? It comes from St Nicholas. Father Christmas. And they used to call him a variation of Nicholas, you know, sort of olaf or whatever, and some people used to call him Nick. And it was a shortened version of his name. It became a sort of standard for a shortened version, or a variation of someone's name became a nickname. So it comes from Father Christmas. I'm on thin ice now, everything's gone. I'm a bit discombobulated, so I'm just going to say what I see. Steve, that's rubbish. Yeah, well, do you want to hear my qualifications? Yeah, go on. I used to be an elf. Oh, did you know that? LAUghter there just reminded me. The woman who answered the question, actually, she's not gonna be very pleased with that. I wonder if it's got something to do with prison nicknames, names in the nick. I don't know. Have we got anyone? Is anyone gonna be able to answer this? Let's go to. You're not getting anything for that, Steve. And that joke. Frankly, mate, we'll pretend that never happened as well. Amina's in Harrow. Quickly, Amina. We're gonna run out of time. I need more answers. What have you got? I've got an answer to the question about the twitching eyelid. Oh, good. Go on. It's called hypocalcemic tetany and it happens if you've got vitamin D deficiency, which is really common in the UK. But why does it happen when he's tired? I'm not sure if it necessarily happens more if you're tired, but definitely when you've got low vitamin D and low calcium, you can get twitching all over your body. But everyone has reported that it happens when they're tired. Can vitamin D levels fluctuate in the course of a day? No. No, that would be quite unusual. What are your qualifications? I'm a doctor. Oh, flipping it. You can't argue with me. I think you've forgotten who you're talking to, madam. I can argue with anyone. It's not. It's not. No, I'm not. It's not the right answer because I get a twitch when I'm tired and that's not what you're describing. So you've described it accurately and medically sound. But you haven't described what the fellow was asking about. Oh, gonan. Oh, come on. No, no. Max is in tunbridge Wells. Question or answer? Max, quick question. Oh, no. What's going on? Why? We've got loads that haven't been answered. Where did Nick know? I'm going to ask you the questions, all right? And you can try and answer them. Ready? No, I've got a question. No, you can't. I want you to answer them. How do they make sure that the questions in the specialized subject section on mastermind are of equal difficulty? I don't know. Where does the phrase nickname come from? What's the origin of the phrase nickname? Uh, free fine on someone. Pardon? Free fine on someone. A genius comedian coming in at the end of the show as well. And finally, what was the other one we haven't got an answer to? Why do we drink tomato juice on planes? I'm gonna ask Sheila Fogarty, why do we drink tomato juice on planes? I just. Why do we drink tomato juice? To be honest. Forget the plane. This has been the worst mystery hour in history. I don't know. Who am I gonna blame? I know. Jones, the engineer. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I thought we'd get nicknames. Old Cathy, alias Dot, wanted to know where the origin of the phrase nickname comes from, has been cruelly and completely let down and squeezing someone else. Barry and Barnhouse. Barry, what have you got? No, everyone's too busy to put calls through to the studio. That's fine. Sheila Fogarty is here to lift the bat on after 01:00 today. We'll be back tomorrow morning from ten. That situation in Russia has escalated since we began talking about it at 10:00 this morning, so stay tuned to her. Sheila Fogarty, bring you up to speed with the very latest developments. I'm James O'Brien. This is LBC. The time now is 1259. Thank.