How did saloon doors keep Western saloons safe at night?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien, time for the most fun filled hour of the week, or at least in terms of the hours that we spent together. I hope you possibly have more fun in another hour when I'm not there, but that's possibly a little intimate for four minutes after twelve on a Thursday afternoon. Do you know what mystery hour is? Of course you do. May, you may not. I'll explain briefly. All right. It's quite straightforward. You have bubbling away in the back of your brain a question to which you need to find an answer. It may be a relative, it may strike you as a relatively banal question, but if you think that loads of other people, once they hear the question, might also share your interest in the answer, I'd like to hear it. It can be silly or it can be deadly serious. It could demand the intervention of a nuclear scientist or a brain surgeon. Or it could be a question that might be answerable by someone who happened to see relevant television program on the goggle box last night. That, that's, that's the whole point. Anything goes. The goal posts couldn't be wider. In fact, the only thing that would stop you from being, yeah, I don't know why that happens. I've got to be honest with you. A few of you commenting on the fact that I did sort of try to rap a bit in the last portion of the program, I can only apologize. You have to at least acknowledge it proves we're live. No one would do that if they gave it any thought beforehand. So what we tried to do on mister, the only two things that would get you disqualified or just perturbed, discouraged from contributing would be dullness, which is in the ear of the beholder. So Thomas and Beth answering your calls today, if they politely give the impression that your question's a bit rubbish, please politely hang up and move along. Don't try and convince them that it's great or ring back again and again and again, because it just spoils it for every, spoils it for everybody else. You're letting yourself down. No, you're letting me down. You're letting mystery hour down. But most of all, you're letting yourself down. The number is the same as it is throughout the week on the program, but there's also, of course, a number. You bring the same number if you can answer the question that somebody else asks. If your answer sounds plausible, you will be asked what your qualifications are. And your qualifications, as I just mentioned, could be anything from a PhD in nuclear physics through to. I saw it on Peaky Blinders last week. James, anything goes, as all it is, is the proof that you are telling the truth. And I will take the final judgment on that. My decision is final if you are, and I should mention this because we had a couple recently and they are very special moments, if your qualifications for answering the question that you ask are impeccable, to the point of almost being unbelievable. So if, for example, we had a question about a certain type of rare breed, and that rare breed that we mentioned earlier, that there are only twelve breeding females left in the country, and you rang in to answer the question, and you were the farmer who had those twelve breeding females, or if you were to ask a question, answer a question for which a tiny number of people in the country could possibly be qualified. And you're qualified because you are actually a toaster designer, or you played football with Gill Scott Heron's dad in Kidderminster in the 1950s. You see what I mean? If your qualifications are answering the question, have a hell of a lot to do with your personal journey in life and leave you in a tiny minority, you will get what we call a Ray Liotta. If you don't know what a Ray Liotta is, you'll find out one day. Hopefully today. But one can make no promises. Fans have rung off the hook. I didn't even mention it was mystery hour before the news. Did you notice that? And the old the A team is back together. My friend and colleague Jones, the engineer, who has not been here for a while. He was here last week, but he is no longer a member of the permanent staff here at LBC. He is a professional poker player now, and it's going so well. He's back here for a month. So we are. The A Team is back. So what is it? What's that thin Lizzie song? The boys are back in town? Which means that the quality of banter should be higher because Jones often says funny things in my ear as I speak to you, which I then pass off as my own. And if I'm honest, some of them might actually be funnier than anything I could have come up with myself. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Shall we crack on? Nixon Fareham. Nick. Question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please carry on. Okay, so, you know in westerns where the cowboy goes into the saloon, goes up to the bar, nor has a gunfight. Yes, getting into that saloon, he has to go through the swing doors that start at knee high and go up to shoulder height and open in the middle. I was wondering, are those actually real? Because what happens when the guy wants to lock up for the night? How does he secure the premises? Because from what I've seen on westerns from outside, they don't seem to have any shuttles or anything that come down. You're basing your knowledge entirely on Hollywood films, your understanding of saloon bar architecture in 19th century wild West America. Absolutely nothing wrong with that. No. I tell you, I was watching Shane the other week. Great film. Yes. I've never actually seen it. Oh, Jack Palance. Yeah, he's got. He's got baby face, doesn't he? Doesn't really look like his typical. We're digressing slightly. Talk to me about doors. Yeah, but. And they had this sort of. I mean, he went through at the end of him, he goes through night, doesn't he, to confront the guy and he gets there and it's all open up. And I thought, well, I'm sure they're not open 24/7 why? Why are you sure of that? The poor, like the bars, got to sleep at some time. There'd be a rotor. No, because they're usually hotels and it's not beyond the realms of possibility that if there's people sleeping upstairs, there's somebody on duty downstairs all night. Yeah, that's very true. It may well be. It's a lovely question. I was preparing to mock you for this question when I saw it on the board, but I actually quite like it. Oh, thank goodness for that. So are saloon bar, swing doors in the wild west? Is that a historically accurate depiction? And if so, you're not really allowed supplementaries. But I'm going to make an exception in your case because I like the question so much. If so, well, the only answer could be that it was staffed all night. If they exist, there must have been someone in there. So we only need the first question. The first question is, are they real? Is it true? Because if they are real, if it is true, they must have had somebody. He's not just going to leave the bourbon there to be stolen by Billy the kid, are they? Absolutely. Yeah. That would. That would suit me down to t. Good man. Don't ring in and ask for the origin of the phrase suit me down to a t. I hate it when that happens. Des is in Collindale. Des, question or answer? Hello, James, there's a question. Carry on, Des. I'm afraid it's the word derivation. One. We're allowed one a week, so I hope it's a good one. Okay, one off. Come one off performance, usually of comedy, is regarded referred to as a gig. And some musical performances, too. If it's a one off, it's a gig. I know this. Also the gig economy. I know this. The other night, one of your late night colleagues described Chris Patton's governorship of Hong Kong as a great gig. Now, where does this word come from? 1920s, 1920s jazz? It comes. It comes from the word engagement. Oh, right. So you know what those jazz musicians were like, man. They had their own lingo. Yeah. The only thing I could think of, which was really way out and unlikely, at least in a comedy performance, maybe it was giggled. No, I don't think you should be embarrassed by that theory, despite the fact that it's completely wrong. Okay. Well, there's. The reason I know is because I think it's popped up before and it is. There's also. I think there's another theory that hinges on the definition of gig as a little carriage. You know, have you heard that? A horse and gig. Oh, yes, a horse and buggy, that kind of thing. But I think the received wisdom is that it was. It was a jazz argo. It was of the vocabulary of 1920s jazz musicians where an engagement would be a gig. Have you got a gig tonight? Have you got a gig tonight? Des is quite a jazz name, isn't it? It is, yeah. I like it. Okay, so round of applause for me, Des. Good question. Yeah. Okay, thanks. Thank you, Des. Jazzy des. Jane's in Ealing. Jane. Question or answer? Question. Please carry on. My question is. I've forgotten it. Oh, yes. With foreign languages like French, Spanish, German, who did or does decide whether a word is female or masculine? Oh, that's strong, isn't it? I didn't think it was compared to the first question, but I like the first question. Swing doors. Still waiting on that. I'd have an appalling grasp of language. Well, I did think it was something to do with whether it ends or starts with an n or an e or what, things like that. But it doesn't seem to follow. And then my. My following question, I don't know if I'm allowed one, is like, are they the same in other languages? That's what I would want to know, actually, because that would speak of us. I don't think they are. Well, then it's even more confusing, isn't it? Because if they've got the same root and then we identify an ancient language, probably Latin, possibly Greek, and they imputed gender. We can know why the Romans imputed gender to words and then that would leak through all the germanic and latin languages. But what started this off was I was in Spain and somebody, my child, asked me what a beard is in Spain, and I said, la barba. La barba. Female. Yeah. Why would a beard be female? Exactly. So, except in the other, rather more modern definition of the word, where a beard would be female because she's accompanying a gay man pretending to be straight. I've lost the room there. You have heard of that. Did I ever tell you what happened in Kidderminster regarding the gender of the word brasserie? No. You. I've got to be honest with you, Jane. You don't sound like you want to know. No, I like your stories about kidding Mechister. So, one of my first jobs was as a waiter at a rather nice restaurant in Kidderminster on Lower Mill street called. It's now called labrassery. I was quite a bumptious teenager, as I'm sure you could imagine. And one of the first things I told the bloke who only had the restaurant open for two or three months after I started working there as a waiter, was that he'd got the gender wrong and he'd had all the napkins printed and all the signage done outside the restaurant as Le Brasserie. Luckily, he kept me employed. So, anyway, back to my question. Well, hang on a minute. I don't share these anecdotes for my own entertainment. Jane, I don't introduce you to the subculture of Kiddieminster for my own entertainment. It's for yours. Is there a book on kiddieminster coming out soon with your. With your anecdotes? No. My next book is called how to be right. But after that, I might actually see how the publisher feels about a kidderminster based collection of anecdotes. I think. Thank you, Jane. I'll put you on a commission. In the meantime, I will try to find out who decides what gender is apportioned to a word in languages like French and German. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I've spoken to my publisher. He's not mad keen on the kid of Mister anecdote side there, so. I don't know. I have to go back to the drawing board. Do you know something I find really interesting? We'll crack on my mystery momentarily. What? The difference between funny and not funny. So, like comic timing. You could give, for example, some words to Paul Merton and he would deliver them in a way that made you wet yourself. The man is funny. He's funny in his bones. I had the privilege of sitting next to him. On have I got news for you. And frankly, the idea that I got paid for that is one of funniest things that's ever happened to me in my life. I'd have paid. I'd have paid thousands of pounds to sit next to Paul Martin. On have I got news for you. They paid me the mugs. But you could give exactly the same words to me or to, you know, somebody humorless, and it just wouldn't work. And then it's not just delivery, either. Sometimes the addition of words don't change the meaning of anything, but completely change how funny it is. I just saying all this because Gary Burton sent me a tweet after Jane. The last caller, who was gloriously unimpressed by my kiddieminster anecdote, mentioned the word. It's surprising that the word barb is female in Spanish. La barba. I think it's female in French as well, isn't it, labarb? Because one thinks of beards as being an essentially male thing. And Gary's tweeted at Mister James Ob. Gary Burton tweeted, my nan had a beard, bless her. And the bless her is what makes it funny, isn't it? It's not that my nan had a beard. That's mildly amusing. My nan had a beard, bless her. I think that elevates it into a much different level of funny. I don't know. Is there something I can read about this? I find it really interesting, but I digress, perhaps a little too violently. 21 minutes after twelve is the time Paul is in Chelmsford. Paul, question or answer? It's a question. James. Sorry, mate. I'm surprised you're still here. I don't know where all that came from. Let's crack on with the business in hand, shall we? That's all right. Why does the Internet slow down when it rains? That was a rejected first draft of Travis's best known single, I think. But are we certain that it does? Well, it's only anecdotal. It's purely anecdotal. But wherever I've lived, and I've never lived, you know, like in, you know, out of the way areas, I live in towns, and whichever Internet service provider I've had, and I'm. Because I'm a writer, I'm at the. I'm at the thing all day, I'm at my computer all day, and I'm researching stuff as I write. When it rains and when it really pours down, my Internet slows down, you know, my downloads get slower. Yeah, you mean a real pelting, don't you? You don't mean a light shower? I've recognized this as well. Do you have satellite television? I do. Does that get affected as well? It has done, but that could be the Internet link to the satellite television, so I don't know. We often say the plural of anecdote is not data, but I'm joining you on this one, which means it is data now. So why does it happen? Why does it always mess up my Internet when it rains? As Travis almost sang, you're on. Okay, I want an answer to that because it's true. I think we've all noticed that. Let's help out, Paul. What sort of stuff do you write, Paul, if you don't mind me asking? I write books and I write the television. Oh, fantastic. Any work for me at all? Anything I can get involved? No, you. Actually, you do owe me 700 quid for the panini thing, which I'm still going on about back in the day when we panini. Think the other week you said if you rang in. Oh, that was a figure of speech, mate. Honestly, I don't know, 23 minutes after twelve. Ban him. Don't let him back on. Ever. Ross is in Chiswick, God's own country. Ross. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Ross. Well, the question is, when you get a fever and your temperature shoots right up, why is it that you feel cold and you start to shiver, even though your temperature has gone up? Is it because your temperature goes up? So you are hotter than the air around you, which means the air around you absorbs the heat that's coming out of you. And as the heat that's coming out of you gets absorbed by the air around you, it leaves you feeling cold inside. Would you not always be hotter than the air around you? Yeah. Why, when you have a temperature, do you feel colder? You don't. You have a fever, you feel hot, don't you? Sometimes. Well, the example I have was last week I had a very high temperature and my other half was saying that I was sort of radiating heat. I was sat there in a jumper and gloves and big socks because you felt freezing. Oh, I like that. I like that. You're on. Okay, it's a deal. Why, when Ross was ill last week and he was freezing cold, was he radiating? Well, that might be it. Again, I'm going back to my first answer. Because you were radiating heat outwards, it was leaving you cold inwards. But you're not going to take that as definitive, are you, mate? Not definitive. You'd be mad. You'd be mad, frankly, to do so. 24 minutes after twelve cold, hot and temperatures. Christians in Wandsworth Christian. Question or answer? I'll try and answer out on you. Please carry on, Christian. I think it's overwhelmingly likely that saloons didn't have swing doors. And this is premised on the history of the wild west in South Dakota, to Nebraska and Wyoming. In relation to which I'm a nerd. Not a nerd, an enthusiast. Christian, this is an intellectual forum. You don't have to apologize for being interested and open minded in things. This is an oasis of intelligence and thoughtfulness. You should know that by now. Bless you, mate. Carry on. As you probably know, some of the characters that became fantasized in wild west literature and film were premised on people that existed, like Calamity Jane and Wild Bill. Wild Bill Hickok was killed by the coward Jack McCall, in fact, in a pub in Deadwood, South Dakota, in the late 19th century. And that pub was called the Gem. And pictures of the gem pub show regular doors, just two doors closed, like you might have on a. On a sort of estate house. Do you know what I mean? Of course it makes sense. And the reason why they had swing doors, probably a film director came up with it and it worked really well, would be my guess. The dramatic entrance. Yeah, exactly that. And everyone spins around and sees it. It'd be a bit odd if he. If he came in and then he had to turn around and close the door behind him, it wouldn't have quite the same dramatic cachet, would it? No. Can I throw in a little caveat? Of course you can, mate. The stuff I've read, it said that the very, very small bars might have had tween doors. Oh, yeah. If I put it in a modern context, like a pop up in Bedwood, you would have like a well built pub like the gem, which is found, but some merchant would just shove a pop up up to use a. Yeah. And so there'd be nothing left there overnight. He'd flog all his hooch. He'd flog all his hooch and then he'd. Then he'd. Then he'd head off. He'd hoof it home. But in terms of a big pucker saloon with the gallery and all the stuff we see in the wild west films, almost certainly not swingdoors. I, um. Do you watch Deadwood? The one with. Yeah, yeah. I saw Ian McShane last week in a restaurant in Soho. Ian McShane is a hero. He's the Don, isn't he? How cool is he in McShane? I just imagine doing that. Cool. I can't, mate. I can't even imagine it. I can dream of it, but I can't. He walks into the restaurant. I mean, how old is he now? Is he in his seventies, do you think? He's pretty, at least late sixties. Must be his Lovejoy. Was years ago. And he just. He came in and he's just got that thing that some actors have, male and female, regardless of what. Oh, mate, it was unbelievable. Unbelievable. But I digress. Your qualifications are your enthusiasm for matters wild west and your reward is a round of applause. No, thank you, sir. Well, you take care and keep up. Keep up the style. I like that. I need to find something to get interested. And that's why I was talking about that comedy thing. Jimmy knows what I'm talking about. Why is that funny when someone else says it and not funny when I do? There's two other things he writes. Jimmy B. Two things other than timing that also make things funny. The unexpected and specificity, which are comedy tools that Paul Merton uses a lot. Paul Merton, probably the funniest man in the country. Matthew is in Colchester. Matthew, question or answer? Question. Although I don't have an answer for another one later if you want to take only one. I'm afraid it's too popular to allow. I'll stick with a question, then. Good man. What are moles? And why do we have them? As in the moles on the skin. Not the thing to borrow. No. Spoilsport. Aren't they kind of anomalies of melanin, isn't it? The pigmentation unexpectedly gathering in certain places, pooling in certain places, and they serve no purpose whatsoever. Okay, but why would that happen, though? So what is the mechanism by which they. By which they appear? Yeah, all right. Yeah, yeah. What is a mole that doesn't live in a hole? Yeah, that works. Zero. 345-606-0973 I like that. I actually have to apologize to my twelve year old, who isn't listening today because she's at school, but she asked the question. My sister's texting me now, so I got a text of my wife telling me to stop swearing on Twitter, and now I got a text of my sister telling me that my daughter asked the question about the Internet and the rain last summer holidays. Well, I can't remember the answer. Sue me, all of you, honestly. You can choose your friends. Dom is in Durham. Dom, question or answer. I have an answer for you, James. Carry on, Dom. And it's the answer to do with the weather. Why different languages have masculine and feminine now. Oh, brilliant. Go on. So, basically, it depends what the origin of the language is. Yes. For example, Latin has masculine, feminine, and neuter nouns. Yes. And then the reason why each group. Each language has different groups of nouns. Basically, we call them masculine and feminine because generally, male things fall into the masculine category and female things fall into the feminine category. But as to whether who decides or not is based on the spelling and trying to explain it. Take your time, Tom. It's a very complicated issue. It's to do with how it's spelled, how it's sound, and the origin. From which language. The language from where? I don't know if that counts as an answer. Mate. Sure. Well, it kind of. That is what I think everybody listening would have concluded. So your challenge is to prove it. Do you see what I mean? I suppose I can ask you what your qualifications are. That might help. Well, I am a teacher of French, Spanish, and German in a secondary school that doesn't know. I think you need to be a historic historian of language rather than a speaker of languages on this one, because obviously it is. Because Barb is an interesting one. What's the French for beard? It's la. Barb, are you sure it's la? It is la. Okay, because someone have suggested the reason why is because generally, nouns that are feminine will end with an e in French, but this feminine Spanish with an a for bar de bar. Whereas in German, you would have the word is Bart, which is dead masculine now. And literally just depends on the origin of the word, where it came. But it's gonna come. That's where I'm stumbling, because it's gonna clearly has the same origin. Yeah, possibly, but it depends. But again, it depends on the spelling and the. Okay, let me try. Let me try another angle, teach, because I think you're close. All right. What. What purpose does it serve? Because we don't have it in this. In English. So what purpose does it serve in other languages? Did words having gender. Well, they do in this country, but we have the same indefinite, indefinite articles for each group of nouns. So what purpose does itself having different definite and indefinite articles for words according to whether they're masculine or feminine? Well, that's the thing. Nobody knows because nobody decides. It just happened. But how did it happen then? How did it start? Why did it start? That's really where the question leads us. This is quite aristotelian. Isn't it, in a way, breaking this down? Well, it's. It's to do with the fact. It's to do with pronunciation, so. And. And just literally, the way people have said things over the years. Maybe I'm going to give you a round of applause because you're such a good disseminator of knowledge, but I think there's still room for one last push on this. Why did it start? So, do english words have masculine and feminine? We just don't recognize it or denote it? We have masculine and feminine things which are nouns, but because our articles are the same. Is that right? So is church masculine or feminine? Sorry? Church. Is it masculine or feminine in English? What? It's just neuter, isn't it? I don't know, because we've got the three genders, haven't we? Well, what's beard in English? Is beard in English masculine or feminine? That's a very good question. Give him a round of applause. He's already done more than enough. More than enough. You remind me of that geography teacher I mentioned occasionally on mystery. Who would anything that wasn't on the GCSE syllabus, if you asked him about it, he'd say, don't know. Nobody knows. Don't need to know. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery hour is upon us. I think it may have been a little generous to give Dom his round of applause, but, you know, a man's a teacher, so he's already done more than enough to spread knowledge and enlightenment before ringing mystery out. But I still think that the very beginnings of giving words, genders, still elude us. It may be that they're lost in the mists of time, but if they're not, you'll get on. I think we're cool on the swing doors. Why does the Internet go down when it rains? And this is you see, if it was Paul Merton saying that thing about that was the rejected first draft of Travis's best known song, you'd be wetting yourself laughing. But it's me saying it. It's a good joke, but it's just not as funny. Why do we feel so cold when we've got a temperature that proves we're actually very hot? And what are moles? Not the ones that live in holes. Holes, but the ones on our skins. Jason's in rains Park. Jason, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, mate. I've always wondered this. If you're an apprentice tattooist. Yeah. How do you learn pigs? Because there's a world of difference from drawing on a piece of paper to actually doing it on someone's arm with a tattoo gun, you're not wrong. And once it's down on somebody's arm, if you're no good, you can't rub it out. No. Pigs pictures. Pigs. Pigs will fly. Pigs. Oh, really? Dead pigs. Don't reckon. Come on. I am the fount of all knowledge is they practice on dead pigs. No. Yes. Think about it. It's perfect answer. No, I can't see that. It's what you're saying. The school of tattooists is full of dead pigs. Yeah. No, there's got to be a. Well, there's those gradations of learning, I don't think. You don't turn up on your first day at tattoo school and they give you a pig, obviously, but. So you start off with your techniques, but when you first. When you first puncture skin as a tattooist, it will be the skin of a dead pig. Really? Yep. No, I don't. Next time you have a bag of pork scratchings, Jason, have a go through them quite carefully and you might find a skull and crossbones on one of them. That's funny. Thank you. But if Paul Merton said it, the whole country would be laughing. Exactly. It's not fair, but it is true. It's the correct answer. I just can't see it. I'm not. In this day and age. It's got to be somewhere. You've got to get good. You can't get good just doing it on something like that. I think there's probably something you can practice on that's not organic matter. But when you're ready to pierce skin with your tattoo gun or needle. It's a pig, mate. It's a dead pig. I've just never seen it. I've never had a joint of pulp with an anchor on the side of it. Well, you don't know that, do you? Because you. But you don't sell it raw to, you know, Jason in reigns part to knock up a. You see, you might have eaten it in a restaurant and not known. And also, you don't eat the skin on pork usually. Certainly not in a stew. You could easily do a few tattoos on a pig carcass, bung it back down the abattoir, stick it all in pork pies, mate. No, I've never seen one in a butcher's window. Not with a, you know, scorpion or something like that on it, mum. Love and hate. On his knuckles, on his trotters? No, it's done on pigskin. I swear it's done on pigskin. But if you're not going to take my answer, because, I mean, you haven't rung for a while, but you are one of my all time favourite callers to LBC, not just on this program, but on Nick's as well. So, in honor of your status, Jason, I am going to leave it on the board until someone who is a proper tattooist rings in and proves that I'm right. Okay? Thank you. You're welcome. Mind how you go. It's 1240. Peter is in Wednesbury. Question or answer, Peter? It's an answer. James. Carry on, mate. Yeah. Is the Internet question why it slows down? Go on. Yeah. So the cable that's underground is affected by moisture in the air, and even if it's cloudy, it does slightly drop as well, so the water acts as a resistance on the copper cable. And that's why you get a little bit of a slow down while the Internet's down. Qualifications? I work for one of the major telecommunications providers in the UK. Can I tell you what Jones the engineer said? Go on. He said, it's because when it's raining really heavily, there's more people at home using the Internet, so it slows down. There is an element of that. Oh, shut up. The bio. It depends on the cable. You said earlier you think the Internet comes through the satellite cable or. No, no, no. What I said was, and this is my mistake, I should have been clearer. What I said was, my telly goes on the blink as well sometimes when it's raining really heavily, and I just wondered, because I know the satellite's on the roof, it's not coming through a cable, but I wondered whether that was because it's also linked to the Internet. So. Do you see what I mean? Because I've got. Yeah, that's what you mean. Yeah, but that's the reason it's the white game. Oh. And the qualifications are perfect. Accents making me homesick. Sorry about that. It's all right, mate. I mean, but that's proper black country, isn't it? Wet Nasbury. Yeah, it is. That is. That is as black country as you can get. Round of applause. Did you know that Gil Scott herons dad used to play for Kidderminster Harriers? I'm not a kiddie Miss Harriers fan, but my football team, West Brom, they play their reserve games there at Agborough. They have that. We often get a bit of preseason action from West Brom, actually, and wolves happy days. I might see you there one day for one of Brian Murdoch's famous 1 kg pies, Peter. Oh, I look forward to that. You know what, James? If I see you, I'll buy you a pint. Well, I'll buy you one back, mate, I promise. It's only fair. And that book of Kidderminster anecdotes is getting more, more, more attractive by the minute. Jeff is in Litchfield, also not far from home in Staffordshire. Jeff, what would you like to say? Hello. Question. Carry on, Jeff. The chemist. Foot barrier. Yeah. Well, when having an exceptionally high tide, they close the barrier to protect the city from the flooding. Right? Yeah. Well, when the barrier is closed, being as the river is flowing to the sea, why doesn't the river build up behind the barrier and flood? You know, cause flooding? Because they only close it at low tide. Oh, no, because then you'd still expect it to fill up. If. I know there's going to be a big surge, but it is tight, it is tidal and it's never shut for very long. Is that. What is that? It is because it doesn't have time for the water to build up. If it was there, if you shut it for a week, it'd be like that Kevin Costa film, wouldn't it? We'd all be underwater. But I think it's because it's tidal. You can close it for that bit where the tide and the surge would combine to create possible flooding, but that passes quite quickly and then they open it up again and everything gets flushed out. Yeah, right. Yeah. I mean, I've worked that out. So I can't have a round of applause, Jeff. I'm gonna have to wait till someone who actually knows what they're talking about. Yeah, I'll have to bring you again because I've actually got six questions for you. Well, keep them on a list, Jeff, and start sensible ones. And two frivolous. Give me one of the frivolous ones. Just for future reference, in the scottish referendum, when they count in the votes. Had this big room, big hall with tables and people counting the votes. Yeah. Why are they all wearing high vis jackets? I mean, somebody must have come up with the idea and I just wondered what the purpose was for it. I look forward to getting through with that one, Jeff. If anybody listening already knows the answer, you have to listen to every mystery until Jeff gets through again. And there's no guarantee he'd ask that one first. He might do his four serious ones and his other frivolous one before he goes back to the high for his jackets. 1244 is the time. Squeeze in, Luke. Who's in slough? Question or answer, Luke? It's an answer. To confirm that your. Your story about using pig skin tattoo is totally accurate and. Oh, thank you very much. No, that's mine. That's mine, mate. Back in your box. That's for me, obviously. Calling in and confirming. Can you add to it at all? Sure. We do, of course, have a type of synthetic skin which is used quite often now, which is more appropriate for those tattooists of the vegan variety, of course, does the ink. So now you've got vegan ink alongside the. Well. Previously, people used to say they were made tires and burnt bones, but these days, of course, it's a much more animal and I hadn't thought of that angle to it, actually. You can't clean the synthetic skin because once you've tattooed it under the epidermis, even if it's manmade, you can't then use it, you can't like it. There's not, like an Etch a sketch equivalent of synthetic skin? No. You don't shake it and it disappears. Qualifications, Luke. Qualifications and tutor. And do you have your own practice? Do you have your own studio? I'm so. I have my own trolley and box, if that constitutes. I'm just trying to give you a free advert, so that's all. But it's tricky, isn't it? If you're on the road all the time, you can't give out your phone number. What's the name of Jeff? The business. Does the business have a name or is it just Luke and. Luke and his needles? Yeah, just. Just Luke and his art. I get my buying business through word of mouth. So not booking now till June. When you do your first human, do you have to tell them? I was my first human? Yes. In fact, I tattooed on before I went through these synthetic variety. It was one of these. I've got to try it. I've got to find out what it's like. But you find that, though, the pig skin doesn't move quite like human skin, it's not really all that accurate. It's a little bit tougher. And as you would human, what you do, the skin, we're losing the line. But you've already covered yourself in glory and tattoos. Something a little bit special has just happened. Okay. If you're a David Bowie fan, then I know his son, Duncan, is a big fan of the show as well. But this is amazing because I did something. If you're a massive David Bowie fan, then you might have noticed that I did something about ten minutes ago. I gotta give you more details after this. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. So I don't know if you. I mean, probably in my top three albums of all time would be hunky dory by David Bowie. A huge. I love David Bowie. My friend Sam is nuts, David Bowie, so I can't claim to be even likes Tim machine, but I do listen to hunky dory a lot. He's got one of my favorite songs on it, kooks. If I ever get on Desert island discs, don't be surprised if kooks pops up there. But there's that wonderful song, Andy Warhol, which is prefaced with a studio exchange where they're talking about how to pronounce the word hole. Holes. Holes as in holes. And when I was talking about moles earlier, I deliberately tried to do the same tone and voice as Bowie's got on hokey Thori when he's saying holes as in holes, war holes. And that's what I did. And now I just had a tweet off the David Bowie official account, the kind of official account for David Bowie fans that said, and I kid you not, did James just reiterate the pronunciation of holes moles as a reference to David Bowie's Andy Warhol? To which the answer is yes. I think that's wonderful. If it was Bowie himself, which is, of course, impossible because he's no longer with us, that would be a Rayliotta moment. But I don't think I can give one. Can I give one just to the person who. I mean, he's got a million followers. It's clearly an absolutely kosher Bowie. No, I can't, because it happened on Twitter. And as Gary reminds us, there was a time. You'll like this as well, David Bowie official. Because I can see that you're listening. You sent me a text and Gary rang from Ibiza. And immediately after speaking to Gary in Ibiza, I took a call from the Norfolk broads. That's one for the purists. Aaron is in Hendon. Aaron, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Hi. So I was wondering, when ever going into a bathroom in the UK and you look at shavers and electric light appliances there, you're always going to have european plugs and european sockets. Is it a european socket? Are you sure? If you take your shaver to France and can you just plug it straight into the wall? Is it not a slightly straight into the wall? You can, can you? Okay. And you want to know why? Why have we got the european ones in our bathrooms and not in the rest of our house? Or indeed, vice versa? Are you in a bathroom at the moment? Are you in a bathroom at the moment? I'm in my car park. Oh, it's very echoey. Is this any better? No, I like echoes. I kind of. I used to do a little prince tribute whenever someone was in an echo e car park, but I've just done my David Bowie tribute, so we should probably leave late. Legends at the door. Okay. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Nice to have you on board, Aaron. I'll do my best to get you an answer. It's a fair point that. Why do you have that two pronged socket in a bathroom and we don't have it in the rest of the building? Whereas if we went to continental Europe and elsewhere in the world, that you'd have them in the rest of the building. We need an electrician, Gene is Gene Genie just keeps on coming. Today. Gene's in Bromley. Gene, question or answer? Hello, Jack. Question. Carry on. Been niggling me for months and months. Oh, yeah. It will probably only interest Coronation street watchers when the title of Coronation street comes up. Yeah. Not when. Not when all the meerkats are running about. When you come down to the basic last stage music. Yeah. And it says the Rovers return on the bottom right hand corner of the screen. Yeah. Nine times out of ten, there is a large white block, capital letter p. And sometimes you get this on Emmerdale. They're the only two soaps I watched. Yeah, of course. And I want to know what the p stands for. So it's. It's. So it's on the screen? It's on the screen. And it's when the Coronation street music comes up just before the actual large white p in the bottom right hand corner of the screen. Yeah. And it's an open p. If I can explain to you. It's not. It's a large block, capital, but it's an open p. It's not solid. You mean it's got a squiggle rather than it's got. It's an outline. Let's put it that way. It's an outline. It isn't a solid p, but it's definitely letter p. Have you. And you've only ever seen it on Corrie and Emmerdale. That's right. And do you watch other programs? I know you don't watch other soaps. I don't watch any other soaps? No. But you've never seen this big p on any other program before. But it's. It's nine times out of ten. Has anyone else. Have you shown it to anyone else? Gene? I commented on people, and no one. No one seems. I've not really noticed it. They're probably. Perhaps they're not the curious. Maybe not. Well, I mean. I mean, treat now. Exactly. You watch Corrie tonight. I will. Is it on tonight? I don't know. I don't know. But it's as I say, it's not when all the meerkats are jumping about. No, I get that. I get that. It's at the very end. Okay. And it happens on Emmerdale as well, occasionally. On Emmerdale? Well, I never. All right. I mean, what time is it? So we've got four minutes. I'm gonna do my best. Can we free up the phone lines? Because this is gonna be quite a tricky one, and gene deserves our top class mystery. Our treatment today. Please, straight into the executive lounge for gene. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Duncan is in acton. Duncan, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. I'm going to try the mole one. Moles? Moles as in moles? As in moles. Carry on. It's to do with skin cells in your body which are called mellocytes. And mellow sites are usually distributed evenly around the body and determine how dark your skin is, but in a mold just through accidents of nature. Purely accidents of nature. They cluster in one part, and they usually cluster in specific areas of the body. Lots of people have them on their backs and shoulders for some reason, but it's simply an accident of nature. That is what I said. Yeah, that is what you said. What are your qualifications? My qualifications are you remember the big encyclopedia Britannica? The 20 books or so you used to have when you were, you know, on your bookshelves? I spent a day and a half in 1990 trying to sell them door to door. Well, this is one of the first things that me and my dad looked up because he had lots of molds. And I said, you know, why do you have them? So we looked it up in there years ago. And you remember the word mellow site? I remember the word melaside. Good work. In my head. No, that's what gives you the round of applause and not me, because you got a fancy lingo. Thank you. Welcome. Good work. Duncan. Wayne is in. Oh, go on then. Wayne's in Basildon. Question or answer? Hello, mate. It's an answer to a question I've already answered before. It's the p in the bottom right hand corner of the tv screen. Yeah. It denotes that that show has got product placement within it. So it's kind of like a pre warning. You see it on like Big Brother and they do them really blatant close ups of products and things like that. Sweet qualifications. I watch a lot of tell you, I was a lot telling you, but when it first happened, it was quite, well, sort of publicized as to it was starting that completely passed me by. And oddly, I can't even remember you explaining it to me before either. Are you sure you this is one that you've done? Definitely. I was parked up in Enfield at the time and I rang you and told you. It's been a while, mate. I remember them all. It's been a while, mate. There you go. How's that feel? Awesome. Where are you now? There's birdsong in the background. I thought you were in Basildon. No, I'm in a little village just north of reading, doing a loft intonation survey. So I've just got to run back in there now and finish it off. All right. Did they have me on the radio or did you come in and put your own radio on? No, I just come back to the van to get some paperwork and the radio was on and I heard the question so I thought, I'll quickly try it. And it went straight through. Sweet, isn't it? Because I've got. Told them, mate, you've golden ticket. You come through on the special lane. Wayne in Basil and getting his umpteenth. Round of applause. Squeeze in one more. Gary's in Waltham. Slow, Gary, question or answer? Answer. James, carry on. Bathroom. The socket in the bathroom isn't exactly the same as a European. I didn't think it. It's an isolated transformer that's in there that isolates the mains from the. The supply from the main, so that if you got a shock it wouldn't kill you. Yeah. There's basically. There's no earth connection to it and you need an earth to give you a shock from alive or a neutral through your body. So it's an isolated transformer. It's not the same as the others because. So why aren't all. Why aren't all sockets like that then? It's expensive. Is it that simple? And you wouldn't. Yeah. And you wouldn't be able to draw the amount of current that you need to have. That transformer got you I think I'm going to pretend there's no way you're making this up. I'm going to pretend I understand qualifications. See that, Jones? Proper engineer, mate. Proper engineer. Knows about plug. Knows about plugs and stuff. That's it for me. What a lovely show. Thank you. God knows we need it at the moment, don't we? We will dive back into the misery that is the current government tomorrow, no doubt. But until then, here's Sheila Fogarty. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.