Why does the monopoly's commission have a monopoly?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, gosh, that was a bit special, bit different. But my job now, of course, is to press onwards into a new direction. And that direction, because it's Thursday and it's twelve noon, is, of course, mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The way it works is you have somewhere in your consciousness a question burbling and bubbling away, a question to which you know there must be an answer, but which you have been thus far unable to find. It might be that you could find it out quite easily by googling it, but don't, because somebody listening to this program will know the answer. And this outer of radio offers them an opportunity to just share their knowledge. Not to show off, but to share knowledge in a way that younger generations are not going to have to do, because they will have all the knowledge in the world in the palm of their hand. Ooh, that was almost a poem there at the end, wasn't it? All the knowledge in the world in the palm of their hand. But you do. I've got. If I've got my phone in my hand now, and I could find out almost anything in the blink of an eye. And think back to the conversations we've been having all morning. Think back to 75 years ago when they'd managed to actually keep secret. The assembly, I think, of the largest land force seen in the second world war, possibly seen ever in Europe, and they kept it secret. Think about the technology that has appeared on this planet in the intervening 75 years. You can't keep anything secret now. You've probably got a device in your kitchen that might be listening in to you when you use certain words. Amazing. So that's what I mean when I say that the relationship between knowledge and the human brain is changing in ways that we won't appreciate the ramifications or for generations to come. All of which is a very pompous way of setting up mystery hour. Actually, forgive me, it's basically the radio equivalent of those notes and queries, those Q and a features that you see in your favorite newspapers and magazines, but which often take weeks to achieve an answer. And what happens is this. You ask a question, someone else listening knows the answer, and they ring in with it. There are only two rules, and one of them is pretty shaky. I've got a level with you. The first rule is never be dull, which is entirely in the ear of the producer or the presenter. Because occasionally the producer will put through a very dull question and then I shall indulge in some comedy ribbing. But the other rule used to be no motoring questions, and that still holds, although I'm not as opposed to motoring as I used to be, I'm one of those many areas of life where a little bit of maturity can go a very long way. But I don't want questions about, you know, miles to the gallon and all that malarkey. Seven minutes after twelve, don't ask a question that's already been asked. But of course, how will you know? There is a brilliant archive on LBC, dot co dot UK comma, where you can have a look at questions that have been asked in the past and what that archive teaches us. Again, it's a bit pompous. What that archive demonstrates, it teaches anything, is that that the answers are the point here. It's the fun. It's almost like the journey is more important than the destination. That's the thing, isn't it? It's the fun we have on the journey, not necessarily the illumination we receive when we get to the actual destination. It's eight minutes after twelve and I think with no further ado, we'll get things underway. Ted is in Bexley Heath. Ted, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. My question is this. Why in aeroplanes does the pilot sit on the left hand side and in the helicopter the pilot sits on the right hand side. Is, is that, is that true? I mean, it must be true, otherwise you wouldn't have said it, would. It would. Okay. I don't. I'm just trying to think. Yeah, you normally go, the co pilot sits on the right, but the pilot sits on the left in an aeroplane. Yeah. And say in the helicopter, I was watching, er, rescue last night and that, um, I noticed that the pilot was in the right hand seat. So I just wonder what the question, what the answer, and there it was, popped into your brain and I thought, I know who I'll ask, I know what I'll do with that little question. I'll get it on to mister. And here you are. First up, we shall do our level best to get you an answer, Ted. I hadn't clocked it before. I hope it's true on all helicopters, not just the one Ted saw on the telly last night, because that would sort of put a bit of a hole below the waterline of this particular inquiry. But let's, let's find out, actually. Shouldn't be too difficult. Nine after twelve. Ron's in healing, Ron. Question or answer? Question. And you've used it quite a few times. Here we go. What are you blaming me for now? What am I getting the blame for now, Ron? It's keeping the theme of D Day as well. Blighty. I know it means Britain, but blighty. What's the link between the word blighty and Britain? I've always wanted blighty. What a cracker. You can stop saying blighty now, Ron. I've got the gist. I've got the gist of the question. I can't believe we've never done that before. And I don't think we've ever done it before, because I haven't even got the beginnings of a. Beginnings of a muddled answer bubbling away in the back of my brain somewhere. Blighty. It'd be navel, I imagine. Don't you think it'd be naval? Well, yeah. I've been tried something because I, you know, being on Africa, ibn origin, we use a lot of slang words and I'm thinking, is there like a slang? Is there. I'm trying to work out, is there slang but Britain? Blighty? I can't make the connection. No. Nor can I. Is blighty used in west indian patois or not? Is it? Is it? No, no, I've only heard it on films. No. Same here. And yourself? What? Me and the great escape. That's it. You've gone holiday since I've been back in Blighty. Back to Blighty. Let's find out for you. I should really know. I shouldn't use words I don't know the meaning of. I normally jump down people's throats for doing that, but on this occasion. Well, I know the meaning of it, I just don't know the derivation or the origins. A lovely question. Thank you, Ron. So, aeroplane and helicopter pilots, why do they sit on different sides of the cockpit? And what is the origin of the word blighty to describe great Britain or the United Kingdom? It actually might be one and not the other. I don't know. Jules is in Sheffield. Jules, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Hello, Jules. Go on. What is the smallest animal that could kill a human in its own right? So not by. Not by injecting, you know, like mosquitoes inject malaria or whatever they do. Not. Not by injecting a parasite or something, but something that could kill a person just under its own steam. Just one thing, by biting them. So not poison, then? No poison or venom. So no yeah. No, no, I think that bacteria, but not, you know, like mosquitoes. You know, they're small, but it's the. It's the kind of. The bacteria that they inject that. So you want to kill it, but just. I don't know that that's. First of all, Jules, what have you got planned, mate? Well, I came into where I work and there's, like, a little red creepy frightler that was sat on the, you know, on the door handle. And I thought, oh, I don't like the look of that. And I wonder if that. If that could kill me if it bit me. Well, how, though? It wouldn't. Wouldn't be able to kill you unless it had some venom or some poison in it. Oh, yeah, no, but that would be allowed because after, that's its own. You know, its own poison. But not. Not by injecting a. So. So a mosquito might accidentally kill you by giving you malaria, whereas you want. And there are mosquitoes that don't carry malaria. So you want something that is deliberately designed to kill you. Yes. Yes. So what's the smallest animal that could do that? You know, anaphylactic shot? You could have an allergic reaction to something that doesn't count as much. Wouldn't it depend if you were unconscious or not? You could probably get killed by a. By a mouse, I suppose. Yeah. Well, if that's the smallest thing, then you've answered it, don't you? But I don't know if it's the smallest thing. I mean, I was thinking more of a rat. A rat will gnaw through anything, wouldn't it? And it depends whether you're conscious or not. So are you conscious or are you not conscious when this tiny animal attacks you? I think you're conscious. All right. I was thinking something like a spider or. Or something. Or, you know, something along those lines. But I just wonder, what's the smallest animal? There's quite a lot of parameters. We've got quite a lot of rules here. So you've got to be conscious. It's got to be deliberate as opposed to accidental. So choking on a fly wouldn't count. Right? Yeah. No, no, no. And it's. And it's not right. I'll find out. Well, I might find out. I don't know. I think you'll be all right with whatever it was on the door handle at work, though, Jules, I think if Sheffield. If Sheffield was under threat from fatal insects, we'd have had it on the news. Yeah, I suspect so. Yeah. I'm just not going to fall asleep near me. Door handle, just to be fair. Thank you, Jules. What's the smallest animal that could kill a conscious human? If you know the answer to that, I'll give you the money myself. Origin of the word blighty. I think I might know. Is it something to do with the Raj? We'll find out. And why did pilots sit on different sides of the cockpit in airplanes and helicopters? Andrew is in Durham. Andrew, question or answer? That's an answer. Carry on, Andrew. It was to the blighty question, and you just hit the nail on the head. It was the english soldiers studied out there. I think it was a hindi word originally. Meaning what? Oh. Oh, no. I didn't know that. I thought it might have something to do with the subcontinent, but. Really? Yeah. It was another word that's been taken over by the racists and bigots that they don't know the meaning of. Really? So there's plenty of people who aren't racists or bigots who use that. Use the word blighty. Well, hijack. Like me. Like me. Are you sure about this? What are your qualifications? I studied 20th century history at university. I. Yeah, I think it means foreign rather than home. But apart from that, you're on. You're on the money. It's derived from an Urdu word. Yeah. That's sweet. Sweet. Isn't that? Round of applause for Andrew. Nicely done. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That gorilla wouldn't have got that in a million years, I've got to be honest. Room for a little bit more information on that? I might share it. 1215 is the time. Switchboard is full, but we do turn calls over very, very quickly during this hour, so if you can answer, we'll draw a line through that comes from an Urdu word meaning foreign, and that is where we get the word blighty from airplanes and helicopters. Why do the pilots sit on different sides of the cockpit? And what's the smallest animal? Ron needs to know, otherwise he's never going to leave work today. He's actually terrified of touching the door handle. What's the smallest animal that could deliberately kill a conscious human being? And I'm not holding out a huge amount of hope for that one. But sometimes those are the circumstances in which we achieve the most unlikely satisfaction. This is LBC 1219 is the time. What's the smallest animal that can kill a conscious human? And why do the pilots sit on different sides of the cockpit on a helicopter or an airplane? Which gives you quite a nice illustration, actually, of how serious or how silly the questions can be. On Mystery Hour zero, 345-606-0973 is a number to call if you want to join in, if you've got a question of your own, if you can answer any of the ones that have popped up. Joelle is in Hendon. Joel, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. I want to know why a hen's called a hen and a stag is called a stag. Why isn't it a hen and a cockerel or a stag and a doe? Why isn't it a married couple? Hmm. I don't know. I can't believe we've never done that before. This is where we. Someone will point out, we probably have done this before, but I'm getting very old, Joel. I can't remember what the answer to this is. So we shall put it up anew. I mean, they might. They might. They might have evolved differently. You might have had stag nights before hen nights existed or hennights before stagnites existed. But, yeah, you're right. Why would you? Whichever one came first, then we should have chosen. You'd think there'd be a relationship between the two, wouldn't you? I mean, a relationship in a stag and a hen, that'd be all sorts of trouble. It won't be appropriate. Um, I shall find out for you what origins of hen and stag. So are you getting married soon or is this just a broader inquiry? I've been married for five years and I just wanted to know. Okay, well, we should try and find out for you. Still. It's going all right, is it? No regrets? No, not at all. Going fine. Probably because of our hen's bag at the beginning of it. Set you up perfectly. Thank you. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. I don't know that, but I wouldn't. I wouldn't put any money on it. Not having been answered before on mister. But that's increasingly irrelevant, not least because there's about five times more people listening now than there were when we started doing this. So the idea of banning repetition is a little bit silly. Mark's in Bristol. Mark, question or answer? Oh, answer. Carry on. It's with regards to the pilot and helicopter sitting on the right hand side. Oh, yes. The helicopter pilot with his right hand controls the cyclic, which is the stick coming up through the legs, and the collective pitch lever is on the left hand side. And in military helicopters you have weapons systems on the left hand side attached to the cyclic. It's just easier? Why is it easier? Well, because most people are right handed. Yeah. So you can control it in a fixed ring. Aircraft are cyclic, so you can do that. But also you're changing the pitch of the rotor blades. But on the same interior, it goes up into a bar with a panel on it. Oh, so it's where the controls are and it leans to. It favors right handed people. I just. I suppose I need to know why they couldn't have built it the other way. Do you see what I mean? What? Yeah. I've got no idea why in fixing aircraft, they sit on the left. I have no idea at all. But I know helicopters, you sit on the right. What are your qualifications? I trained a helicopter pilot. Yeah. That'll do as it goes. But is it a full answer, this, in your opinion, if we don't know why airplane pilots sit on the left? No, that's. I mean, I didn't do fix and flying. I just didn't. No, you didn't. I'm just asking as a mystery hour contributor, whether or not you feel your answer merits a round of applause. I feel it does, but I could just be impressed by your qualifications as a helicopter pilot. You don't meet a qualified helicopter pilot every call. I think I completely deserve a round of applause. There we go. I'm glad we reached that conclusion. There we go. A round of applause. I might. I might accept an additional answer to the question of why airplanes pilots sit on the left. I hope that satisfies Ted, who saw it on the telly last night. I really do. Robin's in Bedford. Robin. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Robin. Hi, James. You might remember a little while ago, I answered that. Sorry, I asked that question about everest that went down to whale. Which one was that? It was Everest. Always the highest mountain. Oh, yeah. I set the bar pretty hard. You're here to redeem yourself. Go on, Robin. Yeah, my question is, and it's why can crabs, or how are crabs able to breathe both underwater and out of the water? Because you think of, like, fish. Fish have gills, obviously they breathe underwater. That's fine. They can't breathe out of water. And land mammals like us have lungs and we breathe out of the water, but we can't go underwater and breathe. Yeah, I like that. It's not just crabs, is it? Yeah. Also sort of amphibians. Those amphibians? Yeah. I guess them as well. Yeah. I was thinking mainly of crabs, but there are other things as well. Yeah. Why are you thinking mainly of crabs, Robin? You're having a tough time at the moment, I guess. Lobsters. Lobsters. Lobsters. Frogs. Frogs. A good one, yeah. I haven't thought of frogs, James. Yeah. I could just list amphibians, but it's not. How do amphibians work? How come they can breathe in and out of water? That's what we want to know. It might not be the same answer for all of them. So we'll begin with crabs, for want of a slightly less unforgiving phrase, out of crabs work. Breathing in and out of water. I like that one. The origins of hen and stag. I like that one as well. The smallest animal that could kill a conscious human being. All of those are up for grabs. What have you got? Alex is in Wembley. Alex, question or answer? Hi. It's an answer. Oh, good. Yeah. So, in terms of the world's smallest animal that can kill you, it. I think it's the banana spider. Usually when they try to, you know, to pick the bananas, they basically, the spiders sit between the fruits and they can basically kill the pickers. How big is a banana spider? I think it's roughly two inches. Two inches and a half. What are your qualifications for this, Alex? Basically, I've studied biology in college. So did I, mate. But I wouldn't necessarily cite that as a quality. Well, I say in college, I did it GCSE. You just. I don't know whether it's your natural character or whether it is specific to this contribution. But you don't sound very certain. Yes, I am certain. I'm not from this country. I'm romanian, actually. No, that's absolutely fine. Don't worry. It's only 12:25. It's a little bit later in the day that Romanians aren't welcome. But we just said, I think, and then you said probably. There was just a few words in there that made me think you didn't have this down as knowledge. But you're telling me that you actually do? Yes, I do. Well, then, in that case, you get a round of applause. The banana spider. What? Yep. Thank you. Hang on, we're going to. We're going to. I'm going to. People barking in my ear for reasons I don't fully understand. I'm going to give you a round of applause and if someone wants to launch a stewards inquiry later in the program, they can. A banana spider. Two inches. There must be something. There might be something smaller than that, mate. Yeah, maybe. Yeah. It was the smallest one I can think about. I'm going to give you half a round of applause all right, just because you seem like such a nice bloke, and I want you to know that the people from Romania are welcome on LBC for at least 23 hours of the day. Round of applause. Half a round of applause for Alex, please. Thank you. Tony said, just don't go on any trains. Annie's in Guildford. Annie, question or answer? It's a question, please. And my kids will be thrilled because when I asked them this question on the way back from camping in Dorset last week, there ain't nothing. Mystery hour. Question. Don't ask us. Yeah, nice one. We were driving back from Dorset and we were coming up the a three. There were lots of road signs, brown road signs, offering eateries in pubs and restaurants, but they've all got a spoon and a fork instead of a knife and a fork. So our question was, knife in a fork is associated with eating food. Why a spoon in a fork? Because a fork might look like something. I don't know that I'm trying to picture the signs that you've seen. It's a cross. The fork goes to the right and the spoon goes to the left as a cross. Oh, it's easy. It's easy, isn't it? It's because a spoon's easier to draw. And a knife. Yeah, a knife. I thought you were talking about a fork. It's a spoon and a fork. Oh, well, a knife could be anything. It could be. It just doesn't look like anything. A knife. It's just a stick. Could be. No, stop and eat here. But here's a spoon and here's a fork. Not a nice. And a fork. Yeah, all right. A spoon and a fork. A spoon and a fork. I'm just trying to think if there's a really obvious answer that's currently eluding me. I don't. That's why the mystery. Our question, it's not specifically an italian restaurant that you've seen, is it? No. We're coming up to Gilbert White's house on the a three. Yeah. Down from Portland, up the a three. All the motorway services, all the brown signs, the inns, pubs, eateries, restaurants. Stop and eat. Stop saying eatery. No one ever says eatery. Why are you saying eatery to me? It's a word that no one uses except in tabloid newspapers. Sorry. Okay. All right. Somewhere that you would stop and eat. A motor service station is exactly the same. I've never noticed. Let me just check with Keith. Keith drives hundreds of miles a week. Is this true, Keith? Yep. You got the Keith endorsement. There why a spoon and a fork, not a knife and a fork? Yeah. Drinks. It's saying drinks. Nah, silly. No, there's a petrol thing. There's a spoon and a fork. And it'll give you where you can eat. Hotels, beds. Yeah. No, you're on. All right, I'll find out. It does seem a little odd, given that ordinarily we associate a knife and fork with our cutlery. I shall try to find out for you. Annie, did you have a nice holiday? Was it a pleasant time? It was awesome. We walked along Chesil beach. We did. Portland. We visited. Yeah, we just had an amazing time. The weather was glorious. We love camping. And then we camped with the scouts this weekend. Win win. Where are you going this weekend? Whereabouts are you camping this weekend? Back in Bentley cops up in top of Guildford. I'm Camp chef this weekend. We're about to do the shopping. Oh, wow. Lucky them. Lucky them. What's on the menu? Oh, bless. Bolognese beans, hot dogs and s'mores. Lots of marshmallows. S'mores are special. Bacon and eggy bread. Fantastic. I'm getting hungry thinking about s'mores for people who don't know are when you squish a melted marshmallow between two biscuits, ideally two chocolate biscuits, and you get an astonishing sort of sticky, gooey deliciousness and diabetes. It's 29 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien, where we need answers to the question of why do eateries, when advertised on roadsides, feature graphics? What are they called? Of spoons and forks rather than knives and forks? And a few others. Let's squeeze in one more. Louise is in seven oats. Louise, question or answer? Question. Please carry on, Louise. So, my five year old daughter has got a soft toy that is a rabbit and it's got two names. It's called Rebecca Rabbit or Becca Bunny. And she told me on this weekend that I wasn't allowed to call her Becca bunny anymore because she wasn't rabbit. She wasn't a what? Rabbit. A baby rabbit. Oh, I see. At which point I blew my kids bind by telling them that a baby rabbit was not a bunny. And then the inevitable question of why do we call them bunny rabbits then? And I didn't know, so I thought I'd come and ask you. I like that, actually. So why do we call a rabbit a bunny? Yeah, pretty simple. I like it. Do you know what a baby rabbit is called? A kit or kitten. Yeah, kitten. Yeah, we investigated that, but we got no further. Cool. I shall try just hoping something might pop into my mind, but I don't think it's going to. I'm having a terrible. I'm having a nightmare today, Louise. I normally could collect rounds of applause like they're going out of fashion on the program, but I haven't got one yet. Why is it. Why is a rabbit called a bunny? A bunny rabbit? A bunny? A Bonnie rabbit? A but bun? Bunny, bunny, bunny, bunny boney? No, I've got nothing. All right, I'll try and find out for you. Thank you, Louise. Lisa Aziz is here now with the headlines mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1235 is the time. Just a quick word of sympathy to all those people in Bridgend set to potentially lose their job as a result of that closure. It is my job and I take no pleasure in this at all, to remind you that in July of 2016, the Financial Times reported that Ford was considering closing plants in the UK and across Europe in response to Britain's vote to leave the EU as it forecast a $1 billion hit to its business over the next two years. Those forecasts, frankly, not worth the paper they were written on, because they were contingent upon so many unknown unknowns, like, what will the bank of England do with regard to qualitative easing? When will we trigger article 50, George Osborne's forecast, which I think leant towards the extreme end of the scale, but were all contingent upon article 50 being triggered the day after the vote came in and built upon the economic landscape staying the same, not being massively skewed by Mark Carney's decision to inject huge amounts of cash into the economy. But there we go. It's no comfort, of course, to the workers at Fordham Bridgend that this was both expected and predicted. But it's very, very important to keep pointing that out because otherwise the people who pooh poohed those predictions and mocked those expectations and coined phrases like project fear, when they move on to the next con, they might get away with that one as well. So that's why we have to keep pointing it out, even though the massive priority is simply sympathy, not just for the hundreds and hundreds of workers in bridgend, but also, of course, for all of the businesses that will be dependent upon that plant. Everything from the supply chain right through to the local sandwich shop. Everything gets hit, everything gets hurt. And it was optional. First country in the history of humanity to vote to impose economic sanctions on itself. 1237 is a time. Enough of that. Back to mystery. Our Raj is in Stanmore Raj. Question or answer, mister? O'Brien, answer I have for you. Carry on, Raj. Hen night and stag night parties. Yes, hen night. That term actually derives from henna. In the Middle east and Indian and Asia and all that. They have henna parties. It's actually an abbreviation for henna. Are you sure about this? I mean, I know you're right because the bride and for 25 years about that. Say that again. Been in the trade for 25 years, the party trade. Have you really? Because I know, I know you're right about henna. You paint your hands and all stuff like that. But they usually have henna parties on the Middle east and indian side where they actually paint their hands with the henna, etc. So this is a shortage for henna, which becomes Hen. And obviously on the western side they've derived it to cockerels, etc. And other male parts and anatomy. All right, I go on and stag. Stag. There's no, it's just usually a male character. So for example, Australia call it a buck. So it's not stag is just being used and it's just fallen into place. But there's nothing. So there's no significance as long as it's male. You know, for Americans, for example, say bachelorette and stag. I'm not having henna, mate. Sorry. Well, Hen is just the word for females. It's a, it's a figure of speech. Up and down the country you say in the northeast they call you Hen. Like, let's see, you're not going to get males wearing handle parties, are you? No, but it's just another word for women. Hence how do you know? Well, how do you mean, how do I know? It is? No asking you how do you know? Well, you tell me. Tell me about a male for 25 years. I've been in the trade for 25 years. That's like me saying I've been in the trade of words for 25 years. So I'm a lot more qualified than you. I've been a wordsmith for 25 years. I'm not going to trade in something without knowing the background, now am I, mister O'Brien? No, you're not having it. There's no way that hen is short for henna. Well, I tell you what, why don't you come down to the balloon and party in Stanmore and then I'll show you what we. I'm not going to Stan. It's all the tea in China. I'm not having them. What was the origin of stag then? Stag? There isn't any origin. It's just got to be a male character. Male species, as in a buck. As in Australia. I think you'll find that the first stag party was held in fifth century Sparta, mate. Yes, that's right. That's what. No, that's where the first party started. The stag part of it. But the henna goes back even further back. Henna parties have been around for years. Henna has been around for, God, billions of years. Hang on. Just. Just get back in your box. Are you googling? No, no, I'm just consulting with my top team of crack operatives. Wait there. No one's googling anything. We're just gonna. I'm gonna ask. No doubt, because you'll do. You'll end up not getting a round of applause just because we don't like you. Gotta be more likeable. Right, I'm just gonna just pause. Seriously, dial it down about. I'm just gonna check with my crack team of operatives. Keith. Absolutely. Thumbs up or thumbs down, Keith? Keith's wavering. Ava. Ava's got a no here. I'm going for the third referee in football and cricket. Ollie. Ollie says no, mate. I think you might be right, but I'm not going to gallop to your rescue because I think you've been a little bit previous in your. In your attitude towards the. Not only me, the host, but also the importance and the sanctity of the feature and the program. Exactly. That's how it works, Mister Rodgers. Thank you very much. If he's right, I will give him a retrospective round of applause. 1240 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Paul is in Wimbledon. Paul, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. I'd like to know why we have not put another man physically on the moon since 1972. It's all about the Benjamins, mate. The Benjamins. It's all about the money. All the money we spent on everything else. Doesn't matter. There's no point. There's no point going to. It's been done. It's too expensive to do it again. And you don't believe that any other countries want to do it? They might do, but, I mean, who. Who would do it? I need to double check. I need to double check because Raj has got me on my back foot now. Is this the precursor to introducing some sort of conspiracy theory to the program? No, I wasn't going to do that. Someone has said that to me. They're saying it didn't. It never actually happened. But, I mean, I don't believe that at all. Well, then the answer is because it costs so much money and they've done a cost benefit analysis and decided that it's not worth it. There can be no other answer. When you've eliminated the impossible, whatever is left, however improbable, must be the truth. I do understand what you're saying, but I do question the fact that no other country would like to say that they've actually done it as well. So what's your theory, then? That experience to only one man? Only one. One man. What's the point? Who wants to be the fifth person to walk on the moon? Fourth person? Well, you might. You might. You might be right, James. You could. You could be right. It's almost like. Don't know what my book's called. Of course I'm right. Round of applause for me. Thank you, Paul. And you were trying to smuggle in a conspiracy theory. Do not fib to me, Paul. I will always be able to tell. It's like my mum when I used to fib to her. How the hell she used to do that, I do not know. Speaking of my little book, I will be in conversation with Danny Wallace at the Shaw Theatre here in London as part of a Penguin live event next Wednesday. I need to check actually, what the ticket situation is because I'll stop plugging it when we flogged them. But if you want to come along, it should be fun. You can find a link at the top of my Twitter feed. James Ob. And you can find the book in the window of every single water stones in the land. I can't believe it. Either. Tony's in East Finchley. Tony, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on, Tony. Two basic methods of going forward. Walking and running. Yes. Presumably at some point it becomes more efficient to run than to walk. What's the difference? Well, I don't know, because you're thinking. I'm thinking of the speed walkers. So it's probably. It's not defined by momentum. I wouldn't have thought it's defined by motion. So what are the rules? Heel to toe, isn't it? Yeah. Running. Your. Your foot is off the ground for longer or something. But there must be a rule that if we look at speed walking in the Olympics, do they still do that? I don't know. Nor do I. But there must be a rule because you could have a speed walker who's walking faster than you, or I could run, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's more efficient. Presumably there is a speed depending on the person at some point, at which point it becomes easier to run than to walk. I don't know if you're going to get an answer. I thought you were essentially asking what's the difference between walking and running? Yes, that is. I mean, I don't know what the point is. Presumably it varies, but the point is. The question is why? Why is it more efficient to run at a certain speed than walk? I don't think you'll get an answer to that. I think you might have got an answer to what's the difference between running and walking in terms of the definition of what your limbs are doing or how long your foot's off the ground or something like that, but at some point it must be more efficient. Well, I know you keep saying that, but I don't think that there's going to be an answer to it, Tony. I don't think someone's going to ring in and say, oh, yes, at 4.8 mph, it becomes more. Because we might have something to do with your weight or your height or how long your legs are. Some people can run faster than others. Most people could. I mean, there's so many variables, Anthony. Yeah, but presumably at some point, the inefficiency of having both legs off the ground at the same time. But then we need to know what the definition of running is. Well, we could include that. No, because you're only allowed one question, which is why I'm hitting myself over the head trying to tell you that you asked the wrong one. Okay. What's the difference between walking and running? She's just so charming. I'm going to stick your second one on the board as well. 1245, coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. Utah. Omaha. Gold. Juno. Sword. Where allied forces began the liberation of of Europe from nazi barbarism 75 years ago. Today, hear their voices from one Sheila Fogarty on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1248. Crikey, where does the time go? Blighty. We've done that. What's the smallest animal that can kill a human? We gave a small round of applause to the suggestion that it was a banana spider, but I've. I'm not convinced. So someone have a crack at that. We only got ten minutes left. Origins of hen and stag. Doug Raj got quite previous, so he didn't get a round of applause. Possibly he deserved one. If you can sound more convincing and charming than he did. And the round of applause is yours. How can crabs breathe? Boast under both. Under okay, I'll just put my teeth in and try again. How can crabs breathe both underwater and outer water? Why do signs on motorways denoting food selling establishments, food serving establishments or eateries, as Annie likes to call them? Why do they have a spoon and a fork on them instead of a knife and a fork? Why are rabbits called bunnies? And what's the difference between walking and running? I like all of these. Can we crack on? Charlie's in Chessington. Question or answer, Charlie. Hello, James. Question. Please carry on. I would like to know where Luke came from in the phrase lukewarm. Ah, okay. I mean, we're only supposed to have one origin of phrases question a week, but we seem to have about three this week. But that's a reflection. That's not your fault, mate. It's just a reflection on the relative newness of my production team. But I usually know these ones, mate. I'm normally really good at this. I'd say old English, but you want a lot more than that, don't you? Yeah, well, I mean, we always like an attempt. I would prefer the definity. Yeah, no, that's the least I can do, is try and get you one. So can we do that? Lukewarm. What's the origin of Luke in the context of lukewarm as a temperature? Lukewarm water. Drinkable. Lukewarm could. Put your hands. It's not coming. Sometimes they come, sometimes they come. They just punch. Gone. Lukewarm. There's Luke. That's what it will be. It'll be. Nope, it's gone. Charlie. Good question. Kieran's in Wilmington. In Kent. Kieran, question or answer? Well, I think I've got an answer for you. Carry on, Kieran. I am a UK athletics running coach and I've got a BSc fitness science degree. And I'm also a nordic walking and a nordic running coach. Wow. So you're here to answer the question about crabs, then? I don't know. David Niven joke, but I couldn't really repeat that on the t. On the radio. Do not carry on. So it's the difference between walking and running? Well, the difference. Well, when you walk, you always have 1ft planted on the ground. When you're running, there is a part of the motion where you don't have any. And that's the difference? That is the difference, yes. I got a bit confused when I was listening because I couldn't quite work out what the question was. Well, he was saying. He was saying, at what point? If you're trying to keep 1ft on the ground. Would it become counterproductive? So he was sort of asking, is there a speed at which efficiency would demand that you start running rather than walking? Well, that's a complicated, biomechanical question. I can answer it for you, but I think I might bore you to tears. Can you? I mean, would it be true for all bipeds, though? Sorry? Second, it wouldn't be true for all bipeds. Surely it would be an individual answer for each individual person, because the speed an eight foot person would. Would need to start running would be different from Jimmy cranky. Probably more to do with the length of their legs. Of your leg. Exactly. So you can't answer it. Object. There won't be a number that applies equally to all. No, there would not be. But you've gone with the definition of the difference between walking and running. When you're running, both feet will be off the ground at some point. There will be, yes, because you need to create a perfect circle to enhance the momentum that you want to keep moving forwards. And you can't do that when you're walking. Perfect. And I wonder whether you know whether you can remember from your studies, do you know the circumstances in which human beings generally move fastest? Normal human beings, outside of an athletic context, move fastest without removing, ever removing both feet from the floor. What do you. I'm sorry, I don't understand the question. It's a condition that all human beings have at some point experienced, and it generally sees them move faster while technically still walking than they have at any other point in their lives. Do you know what that condition is? No. Diarrhea. I'd have to have a little bit of a think about that. It's diarrhea. Yeah, we could be. Yeah. Always get shorter. You try walking. You try walking. Yeah. Round of applause for Kieran. Thank you, Keith, in your own time. Well played, Kieran. And what's the most exciting thing you've done in your athletics career as coach or participant, Kieran? What's my what? Sorry? Most exciting sort of athletic thing you've done? Well, I did run ten, nine in the hundred once. That'll do. There you go. And that was when I was 15, but I didn't follow it up. So all the great. I have quick. I have quick jeans. You do indeed have quick jeans. Thank you. 1253 is the time Connor is in Cricklewood. Connor, question or answer? It's an answer. Good man. Carry on. For the insects that can kill humans. Yes, it is. A harvester ant. A harvester ant harvester. Ant. They are about the size of a tic tac. Yep. And they are the most. They have the most toxic venom of any insect in the world and they use it to kill their prey so that they can then eat their prey, basically. And what makes me more terrifying is that they like to hunt packs as opposed to on their own. Where. Where do you find them, generally? Not in Cricklewood. No, they're in southern the United States. Are they really? Yeah. Oh, qualifications? I have a very curious five year old son who has a healthy obsession with Steve. Factual wildlife program. Oh, great work. Round of applause for you, for your. For your son and for Steve. Nice one, Connor. I love that. So quickly. Origin of the. Why do we say lukewarm? Where does Luke come from? Why do we call rabbits bunnies? This is why we only generally have one derivation question a week, because otherwise we get bogged down in them. Why did a restaurant signs on motorways feature a spoon and a fork instead of a knife and a fork? And how do amphibians breathe both in and out of water? Matthew's in Perpignan in France. Indeed. Good morning. Hello, Matthew. Question or answer? It's an answer to the helicopter and aeroplane. Oh, yes. Now, a helicopter needs to always be flown. That is, you have to keep your hand. The right hand. Well, it's mainly the right hand, because most people are right handed on the controls. If you don't, the helicopter will crash. Yes. An aeroplane can fly on its own, so therefore it doesn't really matter if the pilot takes his hand off the control stick and moves around pressing buttons. But a helicopter pilot must always. Because the helicopter does not want to fly. But you could still have had the handle on the right of the pilot and the seat on the left of the cockpit. It's to do. I suppose it's to do with ergonomics. It's just that to put this, the handle, where it's easier for the pilot to keep his hand on the stick and fly it and also reach the buttons. Makes sense. And I mean, equally, I could ask, why don't they. Why don't aeroplane pilots sit on the right? Why do we know? I think it matters. No, I don't think it matters either. So it's probably just tradition. Or port and starboard. It might have something to do with port and starboard. It may well be. And also, one of the first designers of helicopters was a chap called Sikorsky, maybe Sikorsky. Something to do with Russia qualifications. They're very tenuous. They're my favorite kind. When I was younger I had, I was the proud owner of a gripping hands action man and gripping an action man helicopter and I was playing with it in the garden age, I don't know, 1112. And the neighbor who had been a helicopter pilot said, oh, you've got the action man holding the joystick or whatever it's called with the wrong hand. And he went on to explain and strange enough for an eleven year old I listened rather than going that's not, that's not even, that's not even vaguely tenuous. That's a thing of beauty as qualifications. It's something that's been in the back of my mind for 40 odd years and only because I heard the question come up on your program did it come back to the forefront of the brain. So there you go. Good man. I. Oranges last week when you're on holiday I did that and laughed. I smiled. My flipping children. Honestly, I don't know. They're born, they drank the stuff. But they weren't impressed by me taking my electric orange squeezer on holiday. I had that. Speaking of electrics, did it, did you, did the helicopter have the little cylinder of batteries that made the blades go round? Of course it did. I had that one and the big glass. Not glass, but the clear plastic thing that came off, didn't it? The COVID of the cock. So how old are you? I was spoiled as a child. How old were you, if you don't mind me asking? How old are you? Well, I had it. Yeah. No, now. How old are you now? Late forties. 56. 56, okay. So it was quite a long shelf life. I also had the action man parachute that you could throw off. I threw it off the top. I had that we're very privileged to have. The one where you pulled a string and it shouted out orders. Oh, I hate you now. Yeah. I mean I had a. Everything to do with that. Round of applause for Matthew, a man after my own heart. I threw my action man off the roof of the multi story car park next to Waitrose in Kita Mister. And it floated gently to the ground, I was gonna add, and then someone nicked it and ran away but that wouldn't be true and it would paint Kiddermisser in a very negative light. Alan is in Beckenham, in Kent. Alan, question or answer? Carry on, Alan. It's the answer about how do crabs breathe? Oh yes. And I suppose you've heard the term dead man's fingers, have you? Probably, yes. Dead man's fingers. Yeah, go on. Crabs have man's fears, and they are the gills of a crab. So they've got two separate respiratory systems. They have gills like fish. And why don't they work? Well, they're not like fish because fish can't breathe out of water. So that was the question. How can crabs breathe in and out of water? Okay, I just caught the. That's all right. I'm gonna sac. I'm gonna sack the producer. But, you know, I don't want you to feel embarrassed by this in any way, shape or form. I need to know what they can do differently. And so you're right. You just sort of sneaking at the end. You can say, I shall squeeze in Phil in reading. Question or answer, Phil. It's an answer. Go on. So, lukewarm comes from about. I think it's either the 15th or 16th century. There was an old english word, basically, which was pronounced Luke. L e w k. Yeah, that sounds. And it kind of meant sunny or warm. Oh, yeah. And so they. That'll do, mate. You're over the line. You're over the line. Sheila's here. What are your qualifications? Oh, hang on. Keith's already made. No, it's all right. Keith's made an executive decision. You've already had your round of applause. Crikey. I go away for a couple of weeks, I miss one mystery. Aaron. It's almost like the lunatics have taken over the asylum. Children are running wild. Isn't it? Unbelievable. Luckily, the grownups are here. Thank you very much indeed. James. Place names, men's names. Utah. Omaha. Gold. Juno. Sword. Pegasus. Bridge. Normandy. Bayeux. Young men. Young lads, some of them dying before they even reach the shore. You couldn't help them. And that is my most abiding memory, and I can't forget it. Well, we won't. Today. On the northern coast of France, a number of ceremonies have been going on since dawn, starting with a lone piper. At the moment, what the French call the great disembarkation began. Not an invasion, a liberation. Let's remember them all today.