Does colour exist?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Five minutes after twelve is the time your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not only available in. I just got distracted then. You could tell, couldn't you? I'm not very professional at this. I just got distracted because I just received a message telling me that it's now on sale. In John Lewis, the mystery out ball came. How cool is that? We started doing this God knows how many years ago because there was a by election on and you can't talk about the news when there's a by election. There was rather a slightly more laissez faire attitude to programming at LBC in those days. In other words, you could get away with murder. And so we said, why don't we just do a kind of. People can ring in, ask a question, other people ring in and answer it. Yeah, all right. That'd be nice. We had another feature back in the day where you could ring in and say, I've lost, I need something, and we'd see if someone else had it. We called that the treasure hunt. I don't think that'll be making a comeback anytime soon. But it was quite fun. It was like if you'd lost the jug from your tea set and it was. It wasn't being made anymore. But when we, when we came up with the idea, I mean, who'd have thought that a decade and a half later you'd actually be able to walk into John Lewis and buy the mystery hour board game, which I've just literally in the last 10 seconds been told is now available. You can also cause buy it from Mysteryour co dot UK and it will be dispatched to you Tootsuite. Or you could win one by being my favorite contributor to this week's edition of Mystery Hour. Obviously, that's a lot harder to achieve than simply walking into John Lewis or going to mysteryout dot co dot UK or that other website where they sell stuff, the one named after a rainforest. Six minutes after twelve is the time the terms and conditions for the competition, such as it is, can be found at LBC co dot UK. Juliet Suffolk wants to know where she can buy the cheese or penises board game, which probably needs a little bit of explanation. Or you could just google it and find oddly, and find a clip of me talking on the radio. Someone tried to hashtag it, but I don't think they allow hashtags that are a bit rude like that. I could be wrong. But anyway, seven after twelve is the time. If you've got a question that needs an answer, give me a call. Zero 345-606-0973 if you hear someone else ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same. Zero 345-606-0973 it wasn't called guess the chocolate bar. It was called beat the sweet. It was a very different feature from guess the chocolate bar. That would be really easy. Beat the sweet would be. We could get a game show out of that. Couldn't we get another board game out of beat the suite? No, maybe not. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. And no, we can't. We won't be bringing it. I've got 1.33 million listeners now and it is a serious operation. I can't bring back the treasure hunt when little old ladies would ring in asking if we could find a replacement milk jug for their tea set from 1954 because they don't make it anymore. Or Woolworths had shut. Should I crack on with mystery hour and stop with these bizarre meanderings down memory? It's all true, by the way, that you really can buy the mystery out ball game. People think that it's a figment of my imagination or some sort of comedy invention. A lot of people think Keith is as well. And then they meet him in real life and they sort of come up to him and pinch him to make sure that he's real. Keith is a real person and the mystery out board game is a real thing. And now we'll get on with the radio feature that inspired it all. The number you need, as ever, zero three. 4560-609-7673 Daniel is in Lincoln. Daniel, question or answer? It's a question. Richard James. Sorry, who's Richard? Richard O'Brien, in my head. Oh, crikey. I don't look much like him. But we do, I suppose, have the same. So, you know, it's funny that. Would you like to hear one of my showbiz anecdotes? Always, always. Go, go. This is actually quite a good one. So I'd arranged to meet. I love Richard O'Brien. He's a huge talent. And what a lot of people don't know about. Well, two things. He was 80 this week. And also he is a brilliant musician. Everyone knows he wrote Rocky horror, but he's one of those guys, if he sits in a piano, suddenly it turns into the. Like a 1930s speakeasy. He's just got a beautiful talent. But I was good at the harmonica, though. Wasn't he also the harmonica. Very gifted musician. I had arranged to meet Richard O'Brien in London's fashionable groucho club many years ago. And it was during an era in which an awful lot of people in the Groucho club had shaved heads and wore black polo necks. And you're not going to. But it was also before I realized that I needed glasses. And it being a fashionable drinking sport beloved of trendy media types, it didn't have very bright lighting in it. And I swear, and I may have had a small sherry as well, but I went up to two different bald men in black polo necks before I got the right Richard O'Brien. Oh, I bet that was a compliment to them, though. By the third, people were watching me, the other two were watching. So the first one saw me go up to the second one, they're thinking, hello, Richard. No, I'm not Richard. And then finally I found. Anyway, I digress. I've forgotten what we do. Is it a mystery or is it showbiz anecdote hour? What is your question? What is your question? My question, James, is how long would it take if you were asleep on your arm to be permanent damage? Oh, okay. You know. Well, I wake up most nights in the middle of the night and it wakes me up and I've got a dead arm. I've once had it twice where I've had to flip around like a. Because of the way you sleep, your posture, where you sleep cuts off a bit of blood flow to your arm. Yeah. Yeah. But I've also like, thought, you know, people who are in a coma and so forth have to be turned over and stuff. Yeah. So that might be more for bed sores than anything else, but. You mean if you. Yeah, okay. For long enough. Yeah. So if you had a tourniquet, how long. Is that a tourniquet on your arm or something like that? Yeah. Yeah. Then how long would it be before it did permanent damage? I like. No, I like it. No, I get it. That's a really good question. I like that a lot. Nice one. You're welcome. Carry on, Daniel. Many thanks. I'll call you Daniel because that's your name and mine is James. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Tilak is in Canary Wharf. Tillak. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Energy drinks, why are they sold in like sort of short, thin cans while soft drinks are sold in sort of short fat ones? I don't know whether I can say brand names, but certain brands. Can I say brand name? Yeah, of course you can. Yeah. Yeah. So you've got Red Bull, which is like sort of short thin ones come in like 255 mil or even 125 mil, etcetera. Yeah, but that might be. But that might be the answer, because the coke is 330, right? Correct. So you're used to buying that in terms of value for money. Maybe if it's long and thin, it is. Optically, you think you're getting more than you actually are, so you're not clocking the fact that you're getting less liquid. But then you've also got. Other brands, like Coca Cola, also have their own energy drink and they put it in the same short thin. Yeah, that fits. Yeah, that fits with my argument. Or it wants to be different from the can shape that we automatically associate with high sugar and poor. Well, it's not a health drink, is it? An energy drink? But you see what I mean. Could we get something definitive? Because I've been trying. Hang on a minute. I think you'll find I like to meander around a bit, pontificating and speculating. That's what people tune in for. They don't tune in for the answers, they tune in for the journey. Tilak. The journey is what it's all about. Traveling, hopefully. Yeah. All right, so someone will know, because someone will be in the industry, hopefully they'll be listening and hopefully they'll ring in. But if it's not roughly what I said, I'd be amazed. Yeah. Otherwise, I'm happy to give it to you. I don't want your car. I don't want it on you. I don't want your charity, mate. Seriously. Zero. 345-606-0973 why are energy drinks. Why do they come in long, thin cans when almost every other soft drink comes in a shorter, fat one? John's in Fife. John, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. And good afternoon. And good afternoon. I'd like to know which culture civilization person first came up with the idea of the love heart shape. Yeah. It doesn't really bear any real resemblance to the physical heart. A tiny little bit, but no. I mean, it's not symmetrical, is it? Then the physical heart, and it doesn't have that kind of neat reflects tidied up. I think we may have had this before. You know, some people now have that as their qualifications. The fact that they got it as a question on the mystery out board game and I'm so old and doddery, I've forgotten. You think that's going to happen? I think it might on this one. It's certainly the origins of the heart as a romantic symbol. That's what we're looking for, isn't it, really? Well, not just romantic. I mean, ambulances. Yeah. The origins, where it first started from. Yeah. It's not like. Well, we'll find out, hopefully. I mean, if this was university challenge, I'd say O'Brien lse, medieval times. But of course, on university challenge, you don't have to prove it, you just have to be right or wrong. So I think it was medieval times, but that obviously isn't going to take me definitive because I can't remember any further detail. Thank you, John. Daniel's in Croydon. Daniel, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. How do different people have different tolerances of spicy food? How they can take different forms of spice, but I can't take hardly any spice. Can you not know? I can take paprika crisps and that's as good. What are you doing, Daniel? What's going on in the back? The squeakiness? Yes. I've literally just parked up, so that was my clutch. Oh, was it? You want to get that looked at? You want to get that looked at? Yeah. What's that now? There's an alarm going, what the hell are you doing? Are you robbing a bank or something while you're on the radio? No, I'm not. My business partner. The time I parked up on the radio to decide to open the door and get out, rather than let me do the question, does he know you're live on the radio? Does he know you're live on national radio? He doesn't know. I'll tell you where this. The question originated. Yes. Right. It was my daughter. So, the other day, right? Bitch. He's eight. And obviously I'm not, but my missus cook something and I was there. Yeah. Game to look at your clutch. Game to look at your clutch while you carry on with the question. I know I should be right, right. Okay. So she said, daddy, why. Why is your nose stripping? I said, my darling, it's spicy. She goes, but why does your nose strip when. When you eat spicy food? And I was like, well, that's a question for mystery hour, isn't it? Isn't it, Josh? It is, it is. But then I thought, okay, it makes more sense. Obviously, she's eight, and I don't know whether it's the war tolerance or because she's had it at school or whatever. She can eat spicier food than you can. Yeah. Yeah. I love it. That's a great question. That's where the question came from? You're on. What's your business partner's name? Muj. All right, muj. You take it easy, Daniel. Thank you for the question and we'll do our best to get you an answer. 16 minutes after twelve is the time. Why do we have different tolerances for spicy foods? What's the origin of the heart shape as a symbol? You know, I would say as a romantic symbol, but its origins may have been different. Why do energy drinks come in tall, thin cans? And how long could you cut off blood flow to your arm for? Either because of the way that you're sleeping or because you've got a tourniquet on it before you risked permanent damage? It's 1217. LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1218. You're listening to mystery hour on LBC. Just like the man said, actually. And with me, James O'Brien. Should we crack on? Paul's in Croydon. Paul, question or answer? Question. Carry on. The question is, I think it's a double question in a way, but let me just say this. Do colors actually exist? Right? Or are they a construct of the mind? How would we know? Well, only science could really tell you the answer. How? How would we know what you mean, how would you know what. How would you know? How could you prove that something was not a construct of. Because we know. All colors are a light, effectively coming into your eyes. And light is a wave, which is frequency and amplitude. Yeah. Your eye doesn't actually see anything. Your eye just takes in the light. Yeah. This is my argument, but I'm not sure if it's true because I'm not a doctor or anything. You surprised me. So, the light oscillates the cones at the back of your eye at a certain frequency. They were given electrical impulse in a digital format that your brain then interprets. Yeah, but without the brain, if you're removing the. Yeah. Therefore, my conclusion would be it would be a construct of the mind. Yeah, I know, but how would you be able. How could you possibly prove that it wasn't? This is cartesian philosophy. This is brain in a vat territory. All you can be certain of is the existence of your own consciousness. Everything else could be an illusion. Including me. It could be, but you can't prove that it's not. This is what Rene Descartes whole career was built. I mean, I exaggerate slightly, but this was his greatest hit. Yeah, well, it's either that or Julia. That's my question. Yeah, but I'm telling you, that it's unanswerable because you're essentially asking is, can you prove. No, I'm saying that it's not. You're saying what I think it's not. I think it's. It's a. It's a decoding of the wave. It's interpreted in your brain into a color. Back at colleges. If it was true, if it was not true, then your eye can only do the visible light. We know, you know, he is sensed by another, which is an electromagnetic wave, sensed by your skin. In fact, all your senses interpret the world around us, and your brain actually decodes it and gives you the construct that you need to predict what is out there in reality. Yeah, that's my thinking. I do understand your thinking, but the problem with the question is that it doesn't really admit an answer. No, it does. It says that it's a construct because you can't. The color. But how can you prove that? You can't prove that it isn't, that it isn't a color. You can't prove. You can, because you can. Because you cannot see microwaves, you cannot see radio waves, and they're. Exactly. But you can't prove that anything exists except your own consciousness. I agree. In that sense. Right. Saying, is, is it real? That's the original question. Our colors real? Do they exist in the real world? But you can't prove that the real world exists. You can't prove definitively that the real world exists. So how can you prove that something is in it? Because you sense it, you experience it, therefore it must be real. No, you could be imagining it. This might be a dream. Yes, it could be. I would say there's enough senses of your reality because you're always one, you know, you're one brain coding away from reality itself. So you can never sense reality directly. But the fact that you sense something means something's out there that's giving you that information. Not necessarily. Not necessarily. This is. This is where I think Descartes got one over on you, Paul. You cannot prove the existence of anything except your own mind. And the only way you can prove the existence of your own mind is by referencing the fact that you're currently thinking. Yeah, because you're experiencing something. Yeah, but it could be. You might be imagining it. No, but that's still an experience. You can imagine it and it's all in the brain. Yeah, but some things. Give me the short version of the question. The short version. Are colors real in reality real? Are colors in reality real real? Yeah. Yeah. That's why I did the added bit, because it might. It's obvious that they. Yeah, well, I don't know that it is obvious that they. I don't think any two people experience colour in exactly the same way. So now you're moving. Yeah. That's what tells you. That's what tells you. Now the philosophical definition. Don't laugh at me, Paul. I'm trying to keep up here. No, I'm not trying. It's. It's a. It's a question that's puzzled me for years and years and years, and I'm still. I've come to the conclusion, you know, like the old story of a tree falling down in the woods and there's no one there to hear it. Does it make a noise? Yeah. It doesn't. It does. It doesn't make a noise. Of course it does. No, it doesn't. It does, because a noise is a wave. Again, a wave of air. Yeah. That's interpreted by the brain. When it goes into the ear, it vibrates the drum. Yeah. Create an electrical signal to the brain in a digital format that the brain then, you know, constructs in something that we can understand. Did you know when you go through. Did you know you don't see anything. It has to be interpreted in way humans can interpret. Did you know that hairs are your aerials? They probably are sensitive. They pick up. They pick up signals from the cosmos and transmit them directly into the brain. This is the reason bald headed men are uptight. I'll do my best. Okay. Anyway, thanks for listening to me. You're very welcome. I hope you can put it up there for people to try and answer. It's up there. Our colour's real in reality. You're on. Take care, Paul. Good grief. 25 minutes after twelve is the time. Of course, a quick nod towards with that. And I for that last quote, which is one of the finest lines ever written in the history of cinema. I don't advise a haircut man. Remember this scene. I don't advise a haircut man. All hairdressers are in the employ of the government. Hairs are your aerials. They pick up signals from the cosmos and transmit them directly into the brain. This is the reason bald headed men are uptight. I am available actually for small roles in films and West End plays. Robin is in Manchester. Robin, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Is it the colours? Question. No, I was baffled by that one. I couldn't quite understand it myself. It's to do with the blood supply to the limb. Oh, yeah. Different. Different tissues actually have a different ability to tolerate ischemia, as it's called. Brain cells die after a few seconds. God. Hence why people have strokes. Yeah. Heart cells can last probably about 20 minutes, half an hour maybe. But specifically to your limb, the muscles will start suffering early damage at about 4 hours, permanent damage at about six to 8 hours. Bone and tendon can last a little bit longer. But in surgical fields, generally, if a tourniquet is applied, it's released after about 2 hours to let the limb reperfuse and then reinflate it if required. That is pretty definitive qualifications. I'm an orthopaedic and trauma surgeon and use tourniquets quite often. That's pretty. That's pretty impressive. And my pseudonym is Doctor Fingers. From our previous conversation. Of course it is. Yes. A random applause for doctor fingers. Do we have to upgrade you now to doctor arms and legs? Yes, top man. Thank you very much. Cheers, Robert. Stay safe. 27 minutes after twelve is the time Claire is in Nottingham. Claire, question or answer? Question. Carry on. A simpler question than the coloured man has to say. I'm not sure. I'm not sure that's possible. God baffled me that one did. Yeah. So basically, why do we clean our teeth with cold water when everything else that we clean in, like everyday life, is with hot water or warm water? Now, I'm pretty sure I know this. Oh, go on then. And I'm pretty sure that it's in the board game, actually. Oh, I thought I was unique. Well, we all think we're unique, Claire. And then we're mugged by reality. Here is the answer. Can I ask how old you are? Or would that be on gallant? I was 44 yesterday. Oh, happy birthday for yesterday. Thank you, Kane. You're very welcome. Did you do anything nice? No, I got COVID. Oh, Lord above. That's no good. So when we were kids, do you remember. Have you got a combi boiler now? Yes, I believe I have. When we were kids, do you remember there was a water tank in the loft? Very noisy. Yeah, yeah. You don't have one anymore? No. So the hot water would stick around for quite a long time. And therefore. And I always remember stories about there being a dead rat in the water tank or something like that. So you wouldn't drink out of the hot water tap. And by association, neither would you brush your teeth with it, because you're going to swallow some of the water. So I think that brushing our teeth with cold water is a throwback to the days when hot water was less potable than cold water. Well, well done, you. Well, I could be wrong. I could be wrong, but I don't need to. I will rest easy now every time I brush my teeth. Well, you can now use hot water to brush your teeth, of course, because of the combi. But no, because of the combi boilers that we all have and we don't. And then the water is coming pretty much through at the same old rate and the same source. So you can. Yeah, but it would feel wrong. It would feel wrong. Probably sacrilegious, almost. Yeah. So I'm going to give myself a round of applause with a little kind of 8% fear that I may have done this before and got it wrong. But I don't think so. There's only one way to hold on you. No, thank you. And happy birthday. I mean, crikey, COVID, don't you celebrate when you get better? And I shall keep you guys. I shall keep you company during your confinement. Claire, it's just coming up to 12:30 I can't give myself the board game, can I? But the cold water teeth question I think I've done. Paul, did the colours. Ask the colours question. Who? What is the name of the gentleman that answered the dead arm question? Can you remember? Nice. Doctor fingers. Good, I forgot his real name. I'll double check. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1231 is the time and mystery hour continues. James is in Glasgow. James, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. When we're writing or sending a text, we use an x to signify a kiss. We do. And searching for the origins of when and how that was determined to be representative of a kiss. Now, oddly, given that I gave this answer to the bloke who asked about heart shapes, I do know for a fact that the answer is the medieval times is when. But I also, on this occasion, I know the why of it. Okay. And it's quite obvious when you think about it, or possibly less so. Originally it would have been a representation of the cross and it was a way of denoting sincerity, if you like, or good faith. Wow. So you put it on a document to sort of say, this is kosher. Actually, kosher's not the right word to use in that context, is it? So he'd say you'd put a cross on it and say, look, this is gospel. There you go, gospel. And then I guess over the centuries, it evolved into a sign of love. The one I don't know and I'm not going to take this. So no one ringing when they do the circle for a hug. I didn't really do that as a. As a. As a teenager when I was writing love letters. I don't know what that one is, but I do know that the x comes from the cross, the christian cross, and would originally have been a way of saying, look, this is. This is on the. This is on the level. Okay, nice. Pleased with that? Or disappoint? You sound a bit unhappy with it. No, I'm just quite amazed. But the christian cross isn't like an ex. No, no, it changed. It changed. Oh, I see. So you're being skeptical. Not ungrateful. You're actually being skeptical. Not at all. Never. Ungrateful and skeptical. Unbelievable. I mean, you might not like the answer, but that's the only one you're getting, because it's the truth. I accept that and I'm very thankful and look forward to you on the John Lewis advert at Christmas. Yeah. That would be a turn up for the books, wouldn't it? Round of applause for me, please. Two for 212 33. Charlie's in Northamptonshire. Charlie, question or answer? An answer? Jane. Carry on the spices and why we all taste differently. Yes. So you can be a non taster, you can be a super taster, and it all depends on how many taste buds there are on your tongue. Seriously? Seriously. My children returned from a science fair and told me all about it. They had ink to their tongue, a small area on their tongue, and then it shows up your taste buds, and depending on the number of taste buds on your tongue, that's how you taste. And so the more you have, the more you taste and. Yeah. And so Daniel has fewer taste buds than his eight year old daughter. It's that simple. Yeah. I love that. Are we 100% sure it was a proper science fair? It wasn't just a teacher making stuff up to avoid admitting that he didn't know the answer to a difficult question. Well, that could be debatable. How many taste buds do we have on average? I do not know the answer to that, James, if I'm honest, all I know is my son is a absolute super taster, my daughter a non taster, and she eats a lot and he's very picky. Is that right? Yeah. I mean, she can taste something. She can taste stuff, yeah. Just not to the extent my son does. And so something will just be too strong for him. Even if it's not something we would think of as being particularly pungent. It's just an overpowering thing for him. That's absolutely right. Oh, that's absolutely fascinating, isn't it? How do you. I mean, it must make dinner time a bit of a nightmare. Well, we get through. But do you. Do you have to prepare different meals for them? No, no, it's not to that extent. It's literally just my daughter's a lot more passionate about food because she can't taste it so much. No. Okay. I like it. Round of applause for Charlie. Good answer, Nat. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Live and learn, children involved in the question and in the answer on that one, which was nice. Thank you. Just writing down Charlie's name next to Daniels. Hope he's got his clutch sorted. 25 to one is the time. John's in Wakefield. John, question or answer? It's an answer, James, carry on. Well, the fellow who asked about the shape of a love heart. Yes, it is apparently to do with a plant in roman times that was used as a contraceptive and the seeds or the seed pods were in the shape of what we now call a levette. Really? I've read it, yeah. I think it's sylvium or philvium or something. Have you looked this up? I haven't looked it up. Read it. When? I don't know, it's some roman history book. I think you googled it in the last 20 minutes. I haven't googled it, mate. I think you have. Why do you think that? First of all, because your voice has gone up two octaves when I accused you. And second of all, because the way you described it is literally what it says on Wikipedia. Is it? And it's gonna have another octave now. Oh, no. Have I busted you? Be honest. I actually haven't. Be honest. I swear. Mom's life, last chance. I swear. Round of applause. Thank you. Oh, thank you. And also, I mean, even if you had, I had forgotten to give out the instruction that you're not allowed to, so I could be a little bit strict. And it's true. Silphium is the name of it. And it is. I think it's one we've had before, but, um, if I can't remember it, I can't expect anybody else to. Ricardo is in Swansea. Ricardo, question or answer? Hi, James, just a question. Carry on. Ricardo, is water wet? Oh, not another one. It is. Okay, I just need to know, is that it is water wet? That's it, yeah. Well, you get. I mean, could you define wet for me? I can't really. I believe the water makes things wet, but I don't think water is wet, have you? Yeah. Where do you stand on whether colors are real or not? That's too much to think about. You think that is water wet? Man thinks that our colors real is too much to think about? Yeah. Yeah. Is water wet? So, because when something gets wet, it has been soaked in water, but you can't technically soak water in water, so is water wet? Yeah, that's it. We need the definition of wet, don't we? Which I think we will have to look up, even though you're not really supposed to look things up on mystery hour. But unless we work from an agreed definition of what wet means, we could be here all day. Yeah, I think we would have to do that. And the one we've got is covered or saturated with water or another liquid. So water can't be wet? No. Okay. You knew that already. No, I didn't know that already. It wasn't your theory, your working theory was that water can't be wet because you can't dip water in water. You can't cover water with water. I'm putting. I'm leaving it on the board. I'm leaving on the board. I'm not happy. Is water wet? I think. No, I think no, water is not wet. But I wonder if anyone's got the cojones to go definitive on this. Ricardo. That's what we need. Who would it be? An aqualogist? What would be a water expert or a word expert? Maybe a fish. That's what Keith just said. Wasn't funny the first time. It's 1239. Aidan is in Chiswick. Question or answer, Aidan? Question, please, James. Carry on. James, what is the origin of the first knock knock joke? Oh, I like that. I like that. Which. What do you think it is? I have absolutely no idea. How old are you? How old are you? 41. Okay, well, you probably got the same one that I've got. The one that as a child, the first one you understood was not not not. Who's Mary? Doctor. Doctor. You just said it. That one. No. Yeah, maybe I remember. Knock knocking who's there? Phyllis. Phyllis who? Phyllis. A glass of water. I thought you were about to do something rude, then almost had a panic attack. This could have been an opportunity to stick you off. It could have got me off calm. Straight out of the door with that one. Yeah, I love that question. If it's been recorded, what was the first knock knock joke? It's a classic. Probably music hall, maybe. Do you think? Could mean music hall because the crowd would join in, wouldn't they honestly, I have absolutely no idea. I heard. I saw somebody do one online the other day and I thought, oh, I wonder who came up with the first one? Yeah, I'll try and find out. What was the first knock knock joke? Is water wet? Brushing your teeth with. Why do we brush our teeth with cold water? Some dispute over my answer to that question, but no dispute over the origin of the x as a cross. Are colours real? We've done the spicy food, we've done the heart shapes. Why do energy drinks come in tall, thin cans? And Robin, Doctor Robin, providing a brilliant answer to the dead arm question as well. On we go. Have you annoyed your producers, James? The questions this week are just weird. I disagree completely. I think we're having a very enjoyable. I mean, there's an element of the surreal to some of these questions, but I don't think weird is fair. 1241 is the time. Charlie's in Fulham. Charlie, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on. Now, your 8% was right to have the doubt on the hot water. Yes, sir. So now with the hot water, it's with the cold water tank. It's advisable. You can drink it again. It's not great because again, with the rats and the birds and stuff going in there. Yeah, it's not great. Yeah, but with the hot water, it has legionella. 55 to 65 degrees. When it's heated up, but not when it's coming out of your tap. Only when it's in the tank like that. No, you can't consume it. It's still. You're consuming, but you're not. Because I said that. It goes back to the days when we had hot water tanks, but we don't have hot water tanks anymore, so you could brush your teeth with hot water. Where does hot water come from? It comes through the combi boiler, from the same place that the cold water comes from. What do you mean? You just. You just outlawed kettles. I understand. No, no, haven't it? You've literally, just under your logic, we shouldn't use a kettle. Yeah, but that goes to boiling point, so it goes back down again. What happens when the water goes over 200 degrees? It boils, but it comes back down again. So it could get Legionella's back. When it comes back down to 55 60. Okay, not having it. I think. I think my question might be wrong. My answer might be wrong, but not for the reasons you're suggesting, because my. It's after it's in the post water tank period that I'm suggesting. You could use hot water to brush your teeth. Okay. What are your qualifications? What made you think you would be able to do this? I'm a plumber. There you go. So how many hot water tanks do you still deal with on a quite regular, especially in Chelsea? Oh, you mean the very big houses? Yes. Yeah. But if you've got a. If you've got a combi. I think the hot water is safe to drink, but anyway, it's not. A round of applause for Charlie. 1243 is the time. Craig is in Lynchfield or Litchfield? Lingfield. Well, there we go. Third time lucky Lingfield, even, because I'd never heard of Lynchfield, so I thought that was a mistake. But it wasn't a mistake that I thought it was. Question or answer? Question. Please carry on. Who. Who first thought gold was precious? And why is it precious metal? That's interesting. Civilizations around the world have sort of. That weren't connected. The Egyptians, the Aztecs. Do you know, you won't know this, and there's no reason why anyone else should have done, actually, because I'm the only person left now from the days when mystery hour was. Was invented. That was the reason. That was the first ever question. Oh, really? Yeah. And it wasn't a feature on the program. It just popped up in conversation. Why is gold precious? And it was such an. We did a whole hour on it, would you believe? And it was such an interesting conversation that we started, came up with the idea of doing regular question and answer type scenarios. Why is gold precious? The answer is, because it's shiny and rare and it could be molded into jewellery. Right. I think that's it. Although Keith's pulling a face. Yeah, but, yeah. Which is also valuable. But it's not as rare as gold, so it's not as valuable. How did the Aztecs know that gold was. You're only allowed one question. I mean, the short answer to that is they. Well, because they traveled around a lot and they hardly found any. Right, okay, so it's shiny, which is nice. People like shiny things. It's relatively malleable, which means you can turn it into jewelry. And it is sufficiently rare to count as being precious. I mean, precious just means rare, really, doesn't it? So if the Aztecs. Imagine if the Aztecs had sort of steamed into Colombia or something like that. If they hadn't been sort of wiped out by flu or whatever it was that did for them. In the end, they steamed into Colombia and they just found mountains made of gold. Literally. There was gold everywhere. There was gold coming out of the taps, then it would have ceased to be gold, wouldn't it? It would no longer be rare and precious, and it wouldn't have been something worth fighting or battling for. Okay. Someone told me that all the gold in the world, or was it the diamonds, wouldn't even fit in one Olympic swimming pool. But that seems unlikely. Yeah. I'll leave it on the board. Thank you. But I think it is. Just because it is rare, shiny and can be turned into jewelry, it is 1245. Thank you, Craig. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time. I tell you what, at the moment, I think I know who's getting the ball game. But if someone can actually tell us definitively what the first knock knock joke was, there'll be a proper challenge for the. For the prize. Why is gold so precious? It's three and a half Olympics, like swimming pools. It turns out a few other fans of pointless trivia out there, not just me. And it's been confirmed by more than one contributor. Three and a half Olympic sized swimming pools, all the gold that's ever been mined. If it was platinum, one tweet tells me you'd be ankle deep in one Olympic swimming pool. The question is water wet? I don't know if that's going to admit an answer. There might be a challenge on the why don't we brush our teeth with hot water? Are colors real? Good luck with that. Spicy foods. We've done heart shape. We have done energy drink. And why do energy drinks come in long, thin cans? Steve's in Bristol. Steve, question or answer? It was an answer about the is water wet? Question. Good luck. Yeah, tell me about it. It's a really tricky one, but. And I'm sure you could write. You could write essays on it, but a few years back, I was doing some work looking at our metals stuck to plastics. Oh, yeah. And at the time I was learning a fair bit. I'm sort of an aeronautical engineer by trade, and I buddied up with a few chemists when we were doing the work and they taught us a fair bit about it. And they would often describe the ability of a liquid to go onto a surface as its ability to wet the surface. Okay, so like the term wet was all about how readily a liquid will absorb into a surface. Yes. So for me, like, the question is water wet? Water isn't wet. It can't be wet. It can't be wet. Yeah. It's more related to, well, if I go out today and I'm wearing a certain type of jacket. Will I get wet? You know, and if you're wearing like a. You know, what's called, like a high surface energy coat or something like that, you're not going to get wet if you wear something. I think you're right. Dictionary definition would be something covered or saturated with water or another liquid you can't be saturated with. You can't saturate water with water. Yeah, exactly. Because otherwise it would get wetter. So. Yeah. Ten gallons of water would somehow be wetter than one gallon of water, which is palpably ridiculous. Yeah. It's almost like you can't use the two words together, if that makes sense. So it's actually quite a good question, in a way, from Ricardo. Yeah, it was an interesting one. It was a lot of thought, I was thinking a lot of memories. What would you. A lot of memories. What would you offer up as your qualification, then? Just as engineer? Aeronautical engineer by trade. Oh, fantastic. A lot of different things, you know. An awful lot of different things. Yeah, sort of. It's not quite rocket science. Well, kind of is surprised. Round of applause for Steve, please. Nice one. Thanks. Take care. Tom's in Swansea. Tom, question or answer? I got an answer, James. Carry on, Tom. And it's for the. It's for the. The gold question that the gentleman proposed to you just earlier on. Yes. And my answer would be. Is gold has always stood the test of time due to its immutable. It can't be destroyed. There's a few other qualities to it. It's visible, it could be. It can be divided. So you wouldn't divide a co into three pieces to. As a medium of exchange. So that's one of the reasons why. But a stone is immutable. Pardon? A stone. Is it. I mean, a lump of rock would be really. Yes, of course. But there's far, much more storm than gold. That's what I said. It's because it's rare, it's not because it doesn't perish, it's its rarity. That comfort is rarity and it's shininess. Yes, that's one reason, but it's not the sole reason. And one of the main. Like I said, like I just mentioned, I think the main reason is it. Two main reasons. It's divisible, it's recognized throughout the world. So, like the gentleman mentioned. Yeah, but it wasn't. It didn't know it didn't. I mean, you're speaking about why it's valuable now, in a way. You're not talking about why it became valuable. Why, why. Why did the Aztecs value it so highly? Well, yeah, I would say the Aztecs valued it probably because of what I'm saying. No, it's because of what I'm saying now. Because it was shiny and rare and you could turn it into jewelry. Okay, well, maybe so, yes, okay. But my just line of thinking was, let's just say I know I wanted to buy a house and I thought, yeah, you'll take one cow or five bananas. By the time I get to the house, the bananas rotted, the cows probably got COVID or something and everything was on the pan. I know, I get that. I mean, but that's just. That's the origins of anything that you would barter with. You might well have swapped several cows for a house back in the day. You wouldn't. I mean, I'm going to split the round of applause with you because, like gold, you can. You can. You can divide it. Okay, one. One thing I would like to say. The phrase sound money came from when they throw gold on the. On the. On the floor or on the table. And if it made a noise, a sound, you'd know gold was real and it wasn't fabricated. I like that. But again, it's a bit chicken and egg. It's a bit, you know, why did it become valuable? And what else? Let's just split the round of applause down the middle. Thank you, Tom. I mean, I knew property was cheaper in Wales, but I did not know you could buy a house for five bananas. Sam's in Watford. Sam. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. It's the answer to the knock knock one. Go on, then. And I do hope I'm right, because I'm an english teacher, so there's my expertise, and I've been telling. Telling students this for years. The first knock knock joke is credited to William Shakespeare. He used it in the play that I'm not allowed to name because you're performing. So we'll call it scottish play. And it was the porter, who was a minor character. And there's a tiny little scene halfway through, somebody knocks on the gate and he makes a whole big song and dance about. Knock, knock. Who's there? You're knocking on the gates of hell, here I come. And it's a very sort of long, humorous speech because he's drunk and he's comparing where he is to hell, sort of foreshadowing everything that's to come. Wow. You seem to be speechless. No, well, I just thought. I'm embarrassed, that's the sort of thing I would have backed myself to know. But I recognize the scene that you described, and you're absolutely right. It's quite a nice little part, actually, the porter. It's not because it's very self contained and you do get to do that sort of. It's not a lot of comedy in the scottish play, but it is quite a comic turn, isn't it? And it is. If I can just tell you one little trivial, please. I love little trivial facts. You know, I do an exam board, maybe five years ago or six years ago, even used that extract in a GCSE question. And teachers all around the country were absolutely furious because they skip over it because it's actually quite rude and it's quite difficult to teach. And the exam board turned around and their response to all these teachers going, but we missed it out. But that doesn't contribute to the themes. Oh, no, but hold on, hold on. The exam board turned around and said, we can use whatever we want and just count yourselves lucky. Might use it again next year. And that is the origin of the knock knock joke. Well played. Got a massive round of applause for Sam. Thank you. No, thank you. And a late challenge to see who wins the, uh. Who wins the board game as well. Not, not, not. Who's there in the name of Beelzebub, is the line, isn't it Sheila Fogarty from the scottish play? Knock, knock. Who's there in the name of. I can't remember. It's the porter. David's in Colwyn Bay, back to Wales. Do you know you can buy a house in Wales for five bananas? Question or answer? Five bananas? Yeah, they've done it recently. What have you got? Answer. Colors. Are colours real? Oh, Lord. Go on, then. Well, they are. I mean, obviously, that can't prove it. Well, there's obviously the thing called visible spectrum, but the reason it can be measured, the reason they're real, is because colors and light can be measured with scientific equipment. So if you take, say, white light, put a filter in front of it that blocks all colors, except, say, red, then it can be measured by a photo multiplier, cheap, which we needed. No, you've done it. I get it. The fact that it can be measured means that it exists beyond the cartesian brain in a vat answer, which was, frankly, a bit mischievous on my part. Qualifications? Engineer and photographer. Beautifully done. Round of applause for David. I'm only cracking on because I think we can squeeze in Richard in Sheffield if we're very quick. Richard, question or answer? It's? An answer. Go on. It's the energy drink question. Yes. Yeah. So the most popular. 10 seconds. 10 seconds. 10 seconds. It did really bad in taste testing in the US and they needed to differentiate it and market it as a medicinal product rather than soda, because they didn't think the customers would accept it as a soda, so they changed the size, the shape of the can to look more medical. To look more medicinal qualifications. Yeah. It was in a marketing book that I read once. Yeah, that'll do. Round of applause. It was a tie. It was invented in Thailand, I think. Red Bull. I think it came from a tie. That's it. We've done loads this week. Who shall I give the ball game to? Keith? Do you still vote for. You still vote for Daniel, who asked a question about spy? Yeah. It's got to be Daniel, hasn't it? It was unintentionally. Or Paul, but I don't know that Paul would appreciate a mystery. Our board game. He seems like more of a. I don't know, more of a. Well, anyway, well done, Daniel. I'll get that off to you sharpish. That's it for me for another day.