Why do our bodies wear out?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It is three minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC Misja slightly different from the rest of the week if you're just tuning in. If you're tuning in for next week's lottery numbers or predictions about what's going to be in the news headlines, a week on Thursday, a week on Friday, even then, bad luck. This is not that part of the program. This is fun. Fun and frolics. You might describe it as what happens is right, someone rings in and asks a question and then someone else brings in and answers it. Now, I know what you're thinking, sounds a bit rubbish, or even perhaps worse, sounds a bit north Norfolk digital. You'd be wrong. Something happens. It's like alchemy. It's like radio alchemy. Something happens in the ether during that process of someone asking a question and then someone answering it. We quite like wrong answers. We should start bringing wrong answers back, actually, because otherwise the board game doesn't work. What's that I hear you say there's a board game? I'll tell you more after this. Not only is there a board game, but you can win one by being my favorite contributor of the week. If you are not lucky enough to do that, then you can buy one at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK dot. It's all there. Have a look on Amazon. Loads and loads and loads of beautiful reviews. And a few fake ones by racists. That's always one of the adornments of my Amazon offerings is that a few racists like to go on there with fake one star reviews, but they're actually quite funny. Accidentally funny. So even though. Worth a look at sometimes, but you can tell the real ones. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Is that everything? Oh, terms and conditions apply and you can find them at LBC dot co dot UK. There it is. Let's just get it up and running. You can tell I'm a bit. I got a bit overexcited. I thought that was incredible. And this is actually. Give me a minute. All right. Because this is why I was telling you about Twitter. I don't know what the BBC was playing out on that phone story. They got to it late. 2040, 8 hours too late. But they did get to it eventually. And I wonder whether the number of people on social media who were saying, why are we not talking about Boris Johnson's phone, actually did move the dial. I'm normally very skeptical and even perhaps dismissive of that kind of theory. Not a big fan of dead cats. I love live cats, but. Not a big fan of dead cats. I just. It doesn't usually work like that, but that's slightly different. Just to suggest that something hadn't really made its way very far up the news list at the BBC and then Twitter, yesterday in particular, was very, very, very rightly wondering why there hadn't been more coverage of the phone. And then, lo and behold, late yesterday, there was more coverage of the phone, which kind of forces Boris Johnson's hand, because if the story's not. Not being reported, he doesn't have to come up with another excuse for not handing it over. But the story has been reported and he's come up with another excuse for not handing it over. And I mean, good God, it's a pathetic excuse, but it's evidence that the story has not been allowed to go away. And I think, somewhat embarrassingly, for a media establishment that has been talking about little but Hugh Edwards for the last five, six, seven days. Five days. It was social media that propelled that story forwards, I think could be wrong. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Let's get this up and running. Peter is in Peterborough. That's rather felicitous question or answer, Peter. Well, not willing to break with tradition. I'll start with a question for you, James. Good man. Carry on. Right. I'm of a similar vintage to you, and I played a lot of football when I was younger. Jumpers for goalposts and all that. Yeah. If I kicked a normal football with the inside of my right foot, the ball would spin and curve to the left. But I noticed if I did exactly the same thing with a plastic football, the ball would curve to the right. And I've never understood why. And I mean, when did you last attempt this? Oh, probably about 20 years ago, in the part with my kids. I mean, are we sure you can't put spin on a plastic ball? Really? Yeah, you could. You used to go to the fairs and you get those orange and black balls. Yeah. If they've got dimples on them, you can put a bit of spin. But I was thinking about the friction and it. So it's the weight. The leather ball. The leather ball is much heavier than the. Than the plastic ball, but you think exactly the same kick skews to the left with a leather ball and to the right with a plastic ball, and it can only be down to the material it's made of, in my opinion. But I'm very willing to find out what I was saying. Well, it must be that. But whether or not it's simply because it's so light, or whether or not it's because of the way it interacts with the boot or what. Well, I hope you're right. Because what if you're wrong? What if it's just you and your weird foot? It could be down to me and my weird foot. I mean, it'll match with the rest of my body. Eight minutes after twelve, Williams in Purley. William. Question or answer? Question. I'd be amazed if you can give me the answer, if someone can, because I've asked about 20 people this question, nobody seems to be able to give me a sensible answer. Go on, then. I'm trying to find out what causes us to slow down as we get older. I can never understand how Krishna Hurricane went from being the Olympic champion into 400 meters in Beijing in 2008 and eight years later in 2016, she couldn't qualify for the final. What happened to her body in those eight years that she slowed down so much? Oh, it's wear and tear. No, I mean, anyone can say that. Is it your ligaments? Is it your muscles? Is it your bones? Is it everything? What? Is it everything that causes us to slow down as we get older? Is it one thing, one specific thing? No, it's all. It's all the things. I mean, you ran a 400 meters race against another LBC presenter a few years ago. We don't. We don't talk about that on the radio. You could still do the same time. Or if you slow down, it'd be hard for me to be much slower. William, I've got to be honest with you. I don't know how that happened. You've been listening for a long time. Even Keith doesn't know what you're talking about. That was a very odd moment. I had this producer at the time who, I think someone in management had told him to come up with some imaginative ideas. So he decided that me and Ian Lee would have a running race live on my show. And Ian, I think he told me afterwards he was some sort of cross country champion or something like that. And so, well, he moonwalked. He moonwalked the last 10 meters, didn't he? He. Meanwhile, about the last 20 meters, I think, mate, I was still coughing up a lung on the. Oh, that was terrible. Well, no, I mean, it's. It's. I'll put it on the board, but I mean, it's. It's going to be a variation on wear and tear. It's like we talked yesterday about people needing new knees and hips. So if your knee hurts a bit because it's got less fluid in it, less synovial fluid, then you're going to, you're going to walk more slowly, you're going to run more slowly, and it's just your muscles are going to get a bit less, you know, it's wear and tear in it. William, I'm just thinking it's the flexibility in your muscles that causes it. Yeah. Jordan used to be able to jump in the air and stay there for about 6 seconds and as he got older, he stopped doing. It just wears out. It just. Yeah, just wears out. But I mean, why the why of it? A proper answer. There'll be a proper academic answer. Why do we slow down as we get older? But you're a bit unfair on Christina Harugu, though, I think. I mean, she was still one of the fastest people in the world even when she wasn't qualifying for the Olympics. Well, that's, that's my point. And case, how did she slow down so much in the space of a year? She went from being the greatest Audrey in the world to not be able to make it in a space of allowing to the finals. She was in the semi final. She might have had a bad day, but I tell with a broader question of why do we get slower as we get older? Well, actually, not quite. Is there? Because there must be a point, there's a tipping point where you peak because you're faster at 20 than you were at ten. Usually. Usually. Thank you, William. I like that. I'm not so fond of the reminders of one of my oddest on air experiences, but we take the rough with the smooth on this program. Tony's in Aldershot. Tony, question or answer? I have a question today, James, carry on. But. So I was out running with my friend Laura on Sunday and I get really red faced and sweat so much through my face. But Laura looks like she could wear a full set of makeup and not sweat. She sweats on her back. Why? Why do I sweat in my face and get bright? Ladies perspire. Perspire glow. Men perspire. Ladies glow. But she not. Does she want you to share this with 1.46 million people? She really does. She know that for the rest of her life she's going to be known as sweaty back Laura or Laura sweaty back. Because I did say to her, I need to phone on mystery hour on James LeBron and laugh. She knows I'm quite sweaty back. Laura so why does she sweat through her back while you sweat? I mean, does she wear a fall face of makeup when you're running? Because that might be. But there's not. I'll tell you, there is not an ounce of sweat on her face, it looks like. And how much, if you don't mind, this isn't an indiscreet inquiry, but how much sweat is there on your back? None. So your back is dry as a bone. Yeah. But your face is blown. Well, there you go. Why did. Why does Tony and Laura sweat in different places? Really, is the question. But we're good. But why? Yeah, you're on. Your answer. Thank you, Tony. We should. Why? Why? We need to know. Sunny's in ealing. Sunny. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Right. Where is the deepest part of the ocean? And how do they know that? Surely not every nautical mile of the sea has been scoured through. No, you don't need to. I mean, it's the Mariana trench, isn't it? Have you heard of that? Is it? Yeah, yeah, I have heard of that. Yeah, I think. How do they know that? Well, you don't need to go there to measure it, do you? Couldn't you just sort of shoot some beams down there or something? Well, this one I know. Sonar. Sonar in it. Sonar, sonar, sonar. So what's the question? Is that the deepest part of the ocean? Yeah, it is. No, it is. Seriously? And how do they know that it's the deepest part of the known. It's the deepest known part of the ocean. So there might be like a mad trench somewhere. No one's checked, but it's unlikely. So you just tool around the place with your sonar pinging and then someone goes, blooming heck, that's two and a half kilometers, 200 km. Well, that's deep, that is. So someone's actually checked. Well, they've checked that bit, yeah, because they can put a figure on it. What do you mean? Mmm. It's sonar. It's how owls catch things. Yeah, I know, I know. But obviously sonar's been in the news recently. It's that sonar. It's the Mariana trench and it is sonar. And I am taking a round of applause. No, no. Yes, I am. I'm not convinced. I'm not convinced. Oh, yes. All right. Well, I mean, if there's a stewards inquiry, there's a stewards inquiry, Sonny. But the only bit that won't work is the Mariana trench bit. That may not be the deepest part of the ocean. I know it's the deepest trench. So you have to presume if it's the deepest oceanic trench, it's going to be the deepest part of any ocean. Right, you would think. And then the question of how do they know? The answer's got to be sonar, I think. But now I'm patting myself on the back, as ever, insecurities and doubts begin to creep in. But maybe bit trigger happy there. With a round of applause, Keith. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 17 minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery act continues. Why does a football, if it's plastic, you kick it in exactly the same way and if it's leather, it'll. It'll spin to the left. If it's plastic, it'll spin to the right. Why do we slow down as we get older? Why does Tony sweat through her face while her friend Laura sweats through her back on the same run? So it's not meteorological considerations. And I've answered Sunny's question about the deepest part of the ocean, but it may be open to challenge. Martin's on the Wirral. Martin, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Christine Arugu. Why does she win the Olympics one year and not in four years time? Well, I think the first thing we need to understand is that at the sharp end of sport, and certainly Olympic games, the difference between success and failure is pretty small. Therefore it can be any of any of a number of reasons. One could be she ate something bad the night before. It could be the fact she was injured six months earlier and she'd only trained for the last four weeks. Weeks, and simply she wasn't fit enough. It could be that having won the Olympic Games once, the fire in the belly is not burning as bright as it once was. I think you are correct and you are picking up on the opening of William's question, which was specific to Christine. Yeah. And part of your answer is that she hadn't actually necessarily got any slower because you're comparing two moments in time involving the same person. And if she'd run the Olympic winning race the next day, she might have come last. And if she'd done the one where she didn't qualify for the final the day before, she might have come first. So you're speaking, I suspect, from the point of view of an athlete? Yeah. Yeah, I used to be one. Where did you get to? What did you do? I went to the Olympic Games. 400 meters hurdles, 1984. That's pretty good. And I didn't do very well. You got to the Olympic Games. Martin, let it go, mate. Let it go. How many people. How many people can say they got there? Where was it? Where was it held that year? Los Angeles. I was only 20. I was but a child. I was a child. There you go. I'm going to give you a ride. Do you know what? To make up for it? I'm going to give you. To make up for what? The fact I didn't do very well? Yeah, to make up for the disappointment. I can still sense in your voice all these years later. 1639 years. Is this really going to compensate for the fact I've been through hell for the last 40 years? Yes. God, yes. It is. Unable to sleep at night. Yeah. Burdened by the stigma of failure. Well, it's not. It's not failure to get there, is it? But, yes, it is. It's going to make up for all of that. It's not what the chief coach told me. Did he not? He told me I bottled it. It was the only thing he said for the entire month I was there. Are you serious? I am, yeah. It's pretty brutal. What? I mean, was he right? Did you. Do you think you did bottle it? No. No, I didn't. You don't know? You just wasn't good enough. Also, it came wrong on the day. You could have got a bit. You could have. You could have got it. No, a bit better. I had a dicky knee, but there it is. You had a dicky knee, but then. Speak to any athlete and they will tell you they're injured. But you won the AAA title that year, didn't you? I tell you what, it's remarkable, isn't it, that you carry this information? I just. You know, I like to. I have a special bond with my listeners, Martin. I have a special bond with his listeners. I remember. I remember you tearing around the track at the Royal Grammar School in High Wycombe, where your fat. Where your fellow student, Barry Marsden, first showed you how to jump over a hurdle. Barry Marston, he's been fiddling with the Wikipedia, hasn't it? I don't know. Oh, has he? Did he not teach you how to jump? I do remember Barry, actually, but he had nothing to do with teaching you how to hurdle. He has. You're right. He's claimed that. He's claimed that place in posterity on Wikipedia. But as. As. As an actual Olympic 400, albeit the hurdles, and Christine was on the flat, I think. And, yes, I mean, this will. Now, I haven't given one out for a while. This will absolutely make up for 40 years of heart. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Look at that. Look at that. But you haven't done the biological answer about wear and tear and age generally just withering us. Oh, yeah. Well, it does. But of course it does. And there's no doubt that without sort of getting too self indulgent, you do commit a huge amount of yourself, both physically and, dare I say, emotionally. And the reality is there is wear and tear and I still wake up with a very sore back. Do you really? And I like to. Seriously. I think it probably is, yeah. And Christine will suffer, I'm sure, very much the same, particularly when she gets to my age. Well, I mean, you know, it's there. You did it. French rugby after that, wasn't it? You got into french rugby, commentating. Yeah, I do. That's what I do these days. And I used to. I used to work on the radio as a talk show presenter as well, would you believe? Oh, God. You probably see. You probably see that as well. How the mighty are falling. Take care, Martin. Hey, Martin. Give my best to Barry Marston, won't you, when you see him. He's got more to answer for than I have. Is it Gillingham or Gillingham? Forgive me, I don't know. It's Gillingham. I thought it was Martin Gillingham there. What a show it's been today. Lovely. There you go. Well known olympic legend Phil's on the Wirral. Phil, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Even question? James. It's a bit of a when and a little bit of why. When did. When did surnames become locked on permanent? And what I mean by that is, imagine back in medieval times, we're known as John the Miller. Yeah. If you have a son who became, say, a barrel maker, he might be John the Cooper. Yeah. But at some stage, that becomes locked and all his progeny, the male side, anyway, will remain Cooper's up till the present day. The same thing could be said of your own name. O'Brien. Yes. When you were. You were O'Brien at some stage in, let's say, your clan's history. Clamber Brian Barroo. And then. So when, so kind of when, when and why did we stop using those trade names and son of. And it got locked in and probably why. There must have been a reason. I wonder if it was the doomsday book. Well, you know, I was thinking the same thing and I think a lot of things come back to taxation and census and stuff, but I don't know if it's just a thing that I've always been interested in names, particularly surnames. All right, so when did they happen? When did surnames become a thing for normal people? Because you'd have had them for kings and everything, wouldn't you? Probably. Oh, well, they'd have, like, a regnal name, but, you know, you know, ethelred the unready, shall we say, or whatever. There would be a nickname that went with it. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, we got Windsor lately. So you want specific to the professions or all surnames? Well, no, all surnames at one point. I mean, they wouldn't have just said, no, you can't name after the profession anymore. You still with it where you can name yourself after your father. So, yeah, it just went. And a little bit of why on that one might clear it up for me. You're on. I like it. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you can help fill out. Simon's at Sheffield. Simon, question or answer? Hi, I've got an answer. Carry on. The plastic footballs, why they bend in the opposite way to what you'd expect. Yeah. So you may remember World cup around 2000, 620, ten. Kind of controversy around the footballs that they used. Kind of people thought they kind of wobbled in the air in unexpected ways. Maybe you don't remember that. No, I do. Of course I do. You had no idea where the plastic ball was going to go, did you? Yeah, exactly. And the plastic ball, the one you might buy in kick in the park, kind of wobbles all over the place. It's a similar phenomenon. The balls they made in the world, they're too smooth. So the stitches, the seams on a football play a very important role in that. They kind of mix the air up and make it turbulent. We know about turbulent air from flying in planes. Well, a ball isn't very aerodynamic and a shape, but if you can add roughness to the ball, you make the air turbulent and actually that sticks to the ball for longer and makes it fly through the air better. So our golf balls have dimples? Oh, yeah, of course. I love that. Yeah. All of these different hockey balls have dimples. All of these things are added to the ball to actually improve, make it less erratic. Make it less erratic. Yeah, absolutely. That's a really good answer. That's happening. So the complicated thing that's happening with the football and the part why it bends in the opposite direction to what you're expecting is if you kick the ball, let's say you kick the ball, you try and curve it to the left. The right side of the ball is traveling faster, is traveling into the air, and the left side of the ball is traveling kind of with the air. And so the air on the right side of the ball, because it's moving very quickly against the surface, can become turbulent. But the air on the left side of the ball, the smooth ball, this is, stays laminar. Okay? And what that does is it actually does the opposite to what happens on a good football in that the laminar air pushes it towards the turbine air, because it creates more force. So it pushes it in the opposite direction. And your listeners might. The best equivalents you probably got of this is in cricket, where someone will try to smooth one side of the ball on their trousers and keep the other side of the ball kind of roughed up. Well, they even kept the Aussies get caught with a bottle top in their pocket to actually rough up the other side of it. Or a bit of sandpaper, wasn't it? A bit of sandpaper. So what they're trying to do there is they're trying to create laminar air on one side of the ball and turbulent air on the other. And so that will push the ball in one direction. So there's lots of ways of changing the direction of flow of a ball. And what's happening with the plastic ball is actually acting counterintuitively, like the opposite way to what you'd expect. It doesn't have those seams because it qualifications. I worked in sports engineering for about 19 years and have a PhD in the area. Well, that'll do nicely, Simon. Here you go. Thank you. What a run we're on. What a roll we're on now. 28. Should we squeeze in one more before the. I think we should. Let's go to Wolverhampton. Matthew's there. Question or answer? Matthew? Question, James. Carry on. Forgive me, it's a bit of an obscure question, so I'll ask the question. I might need to explain it a little bit. The question is. The question is, who would have been the last english monarch who we would not understand with the language today? I know this. So you know. Yeah. You know how languages change over the years. And I don't mean sort of like a French or German. I thought you meant someone who couldn't speak English. No, no, not like that. I mean, obviously, because languages have changed so much over the years. So it's a hypothetical. If you was to take all the english monarchs that we have a record of and line them up, and if King Charles was to go down the line and introduce himself and have a conversation with each one, how far back would he go? Until he reaches a point where he says, I'm sorry, I can't understand you anymore. It would depend partly on him, wouldn't it? Because. Did you do Chaucer at school? I beg pardon? Did you do Chaucer at school? Geoffrey Chaucer? Did you study any Chaucer? No, not that I'm aware of, no. So that would be 1300, 14th century. And, I mean, if you study it, you can work it out that it's English. So he called, like, you've got stuff in it, like a very parfit, gentle night. Parfit means perfect and you know what a knight is. But if you. So that that sort of 1360 something. 1370. So you'd find out who was on the. Who was on the throne, then that would probably still be just about understandable. And then when was Berwolf? Berwolf. So it's about really language. Burwell is in old English, and that is probably the point at which. So that'd be the early middle ages, mid seventies, maybe. There was like. Yeah, I mean, obviously, languages, it does change over the years. But you think that pre monarchs. No, I know, I understand exactly what you're saying. And the monarchs just become a useful measuring stick, don't they? Because it's going to be a point in time when the English or the anglo language being spoken bears so little resemblance to what we talk today that we wouldn't understand anything about what they were saying. It's a germanic language, so it was when it was all Saxon. I've got some good callers on this. I've got at least two. There's Martin up in Cumbria, and there's. I can't remember his name now, which is terrible of me, really, but someone who speaks old English. So they're probably going to be able to put a rough handle on when. When it happened and then we can just look up who the monarch was at the time and you'd get a fair answer to your question. I'll see what I can do. Thank you, Matthew. 1231 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's 1234. So I'm going to clarify that question, because it's a really good one. It would be George the. George the first. Wouldn't it be George the first who couldn't speak English at all? But that's not what. That's not what the question was about. I've written down the chap's name. I can't read my own handwriting. What's the name of the lovely bloke that. Just the lad in Wolverhampton who just asked the question about King speaking English? Matthew. Good Lord. I don't know what I wrote. That doesn't count. George the first doesn't count also. I mean, William the Conqueror probably couldn't speak English when he. They'd all be speaking Norman, wouldn't they? So it's about. It's about an english king who couldn't speak English in a way that we would recognize today, just to be clear, because I'm getting in lots of answers that don't. That are not wrong, but are also not right, if you understand what I mean. Ash is in Northampton. That's going to be the ocean question. Ash. It certainly is, James. Good morning. Good afternoon. Now. Hello. What have you got? I thought I'd answered that. The Mariana trench. I did say there was going to be a steward's inquiry on this. And lo and behold. So what's the deepest part of the ocean and how do we know? So it is part of the Mariana trench. It's called challenger deep. So I was right. But also not right at the same time. Yeah. It's a very particular part. It's 11,000 meters deep. Gosh. And two people have been there. Really? That's Charles B Benotis Barton on the bathysphere. I don't know what you just said. Two american naval officers went there on a bathysphere back in the 1950s. Really? A bathysphere is a big ball that goes underwater. Absolutely. And then the space race kicked off and nobody cared about it anymore. But, yeah. So there you go. How do we know it's the deepest? So you said sonar. That's not quite correct. I didn't just say it, I sort of shouted it quite triumphantly. Do you know, that's because Keith, actually, to be clear, because this is very much a team effort. That's because Keith said it in my ear very, very, very confidently. So what you do is you would have to use explosive ranging to get that deep. Wow. So you set up some hydrophones, which are just microphones underwater, and you would then set off dynamite and measure the echo. Yeah. The pressure wave would then be enough to get all the way down and back up. Yeah. So it's a bit like. So not. It's close. You're using a similar process, just not sound. I suppose it is sound, but you're using a massive. To get down there, you'd need a pressure wave like dynamite, otherwise it would get lost on the way there. Never mind. Never mind. There is a great book on this. Well, a great chapter in a book. The Bill Bryson short history of nearly everything. Oh, it's a great book that my. I used to make my students read the section on the deep ocean, because it's all about mapping, how they worked out time, everything. Brilliant book. Brilliant answer. Reminders of your qualifications. Chief officer in the merchant Navy and lecturer in navigation, stability and cargo. Great work. And also you knock me off the board, then you steal my round of applause. Thank you, Ash. I hope Sonny is happy. That was a brilliant, brilliant. Oh, hang on, the other bit, which you can't mean. Is it possible that there is an undiscovered deeper bit? I mean, theoretically, it might be. Is it possible? Yes. Is it likely? No, because we've pretty much covered all of it with. With acoustic ranging. Not. Not to the level where, you know, you. It's super in depth, but we pretty much know that's the deepest. That'll do nicely. You gave me. We had the applause. Nice one, Ash. Speak to you soon. Claire's in rugby. Claire, question or answer? Always a question. Please carry on. I was just wondering why it is as you get older. Yes. You see on older people have. And I'm one of them, I'm just getting them little spots called liver spots, like massive giant freckles. Well, they end up giants, but why do they happen? I know this because I looked it up. You can get them if you're younger, but you are more likely to get them if you're older. And it's. It's the melanin, isn't it? It's the. It's the. I'm not going to be able to remember, but it's like. I mean, not everybody gets them, I don't think. No. So it's the melanin, the pigment cell. Yeah. Goes into overdrive. It just starts working. Yeah. It just seems to happen on hands. Well, yeah, because they're. They get the most light, the most sunlight. It's uv light that triggers it. And the more exposure you get, the more likely you are to get. To get the spots. Age spots, liver spots. Yeah. Okay, that's it because. Do you know why? Because I bought some. Quiet. I got one on the top right hand corner of my forehead. Forehead. On your forehead? Yeah, on my forehead. You see, you can see them on forehead sometimes. Foreheads. Foreheads. Tomato, tomato. Forehead. Tomato, tomato. No, you do. You got it. So I looked it up. I looked it up and I bought some fancy cream. Yeah. And it worked and it went, oh, really? What fancy cream was that? Amazingly, I can't remember. So I thought I'd bought it from liberty, because when I'm feeling a little bit flush, I like to frequent liberty. And so I thought it would be on my purchase history and I could not find it for love or money. So I wonder whether I ordered it online from, you know, just a direct. It was a yellow bottle and it was about 40 pounds. It wasn't cheap, but I thought I was worth it. I'll be honest with you, Louis, you're worth it. Exactly that. And it worked. And, you know, the reason I mention it, and I'm going to take a round of applause for this, because I know it's true. It's like the stuff that creates freckles or makes you go brown just goes a little bit. A bit like the other question about why we get slower as we get older. It's just not working as well as it used to do. And it ends up giving you a leather spot, a liver spot. It's coming back. So I need to get some more cream. I'm off to grease on. I'm off to grease on Sunday, so, I mean, it's plimming hot out there at the moment, so I'm going to need. I'm going to need to keep an eye on it. So that is what happens. That is what happens. May I ask, did you spend a lot of time on sunbeds over the years? No, but as a child, because I'm 63 now, but as a child, we were out in the sunshine all the time without any protection. Well, that will be a part of it. That will be definitely be a part of it. That is part of it. Is it? Yeah, it is definitely exposure to uv light, ultraviolet light. Right. Which is the same thing that gives you a suntan, but this just means that the pigments producing the melanin are a bit skew with. Okay, thank you. No, thank you. Round of applause. I'll take that one, then. And that makes up for the one that, um. Ash. Nick. Softly thank you, Claire. Stay safe. 1241 Kerry is on the Shetland Islands. Kerry, question or answer? Oh, this is a question James, carry on. I keep chickens. I usually have about twelve. They vacillate up and down from a few when one dies, which can be by natural causes or by age. You never had a fox get in your henhouse? We don't have foxes in Shetland, James, nor badgers. This has been. What an education. Today's show has been. Around every corner we've discovered a nugget of new infamous. Is that right? Do you still have red squirrels? Do you still have red squirrels? No, we don't have squirrels because we've hardly got any trees. We've got polecats, we've got frogs and we got lots of rats and mice and we've got hedgehogs. But no tree. No, you're right. Because of the wind, the trees don't. There are trees. There are trees, but not enough to sustain a squirrel population. Have you never got a rat? You've never had a rat in your henhouse because they can do quite a lot of damage. We have had rats and the local environment have been along because they've come down from the bank, which is council property. We're in a rural pit position anyway. Chickens. Yes. Sorry. I like the way that I'm the presenter and you're getting annoyed with me distracting you from. From the. From the matter in hand. It's supposed to be the other way around. It's not, but here we are. Carry on, Carrie. Okay. Well, when a chicken dies, one of my chicken dies. It's usually because of old age or it could be just disease or it could have prolapse or something. Yeah. Anyway, within half an hour, the thing's gone into complete and utter rigor mortise. Like a board. Yeah. When I go to the supermarket and buy a chicken because I don't eat my chickens. I mean, there's no way I could put Henrietta into an oven. No. If you don't want to eat your own animals, never give them a name. That's my advice. I know, but we do. Well, then that's it. It's never going to be lunch. Can't go from Henrietta to lunch. Go on. So when I go to the supermarket and buy a chicken, the chickens absolutely as loose as anything. There's no rigor mortis. And I can't figure out that my chickens get rigor mortis. Chickens get rigor mortis within half an hour. Yeah. So do humans. Well, yes, correct. But you don't eat humans. But when you go to the supermarket and buy chicken, it's all. It's all. Yeah, but it doesn't rigor mortis isn't. Rigor mortis isn't permanent. You don't watch a lot of crime drama, do you, Carey? Well, it can be permanent. No, it can't. No, it sets in and then it goes away again. Oh, well, so that's how they estimate time of death. So they might say, you know, rig and mortars hasn't set in yet, which means the death was quite recent. Or. Or we've gone. We've come out the other side of rigor mortis. Well, I blew that one, didn't I? No, it's a great question. It's a great question. I'm presuming that chickens and humans share enough physiognomy for the rigor mortis question to be the same. But it's not. You don't go as stiff as a board and stay as stiff as a board. Oh, yeah, my chickens, like, after half an hour, that's it. There is software. Yeah, but if you came back after a day, it would be soft again. But by that point, you've disposed of it. Oh, that's supposedly true, yeah. They do go in the rubbish, bagging out with the rubbish, sadly. So next time you've got a dead chicken with rigor mortis, just hang on to it for a while and it'll go all floppy again. I'll have to. By the way, if you're off to Greece, go to Nisaros, which is just south of cos magical. 500 miles away from where I'm staying. What are you talking about? Well, take a ferry there. I'm going to take a ferry there. So you see, it's 40 degrees. It's a magical little place. The capital is called Mandrake and it's a little place called Nisaros. It's got a volcano that you can actually walk on at the top of the island. It's going to be hot enough, mate, without me going visiting volcanoes. Anyway, I'll take a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. I hope I got that right. The stiff chickens. I remember. Do you remember the stiff chickens? They used to play at the market tavern in Kidderminster? No. I thought that worked. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. I have got. I mean, today's show, right, has been pretty special, I think we can all agree. And that is a message for all the people who are still testing me at 10:30 telling me how good yesterday's show was. You made me rise to the challenge. I don't know what the highlight was. But. But we've now got the best Dory's watch ever. You think I'm exaggerating? I promise you I'm not. Let me get it absolutely right, though, because I don't want the, um. I don't want even the vaguest possibility that, uh, I misrepresent the best Dory's watch ever. Every time you think Dory's watch can't get any more ridiculous, up pops Nadine Dory's making Dory's watch even more ridiculous. Just bear with 1 second. Here it is. Stephen Swinford from the Times again. Actually, he's having a very good day. Well worth following on Twitter. That's scoop tastic. Let's do it. Dorries it is now. I forgot to do the 21. 34 days. 34 days since Nadine Dorries pledged to resign as an MP with, and I quote, immediate effect. Comedy pause. Nadine Dorries is still an mp. But not only that, the Times has been told. It's reported this morning that Dorries sent a WhatsApp message to Simon case, the cabinet secretary asking directly if she could be included on truss future list of peers after being blocked from receiving a peerage in Boris Johnson's resignation honours. Listen, that is possibly the most pathetic thing I've ever heard from a senior politician, but there it is. And of course, we discovered yesterday that she may well have broken the law as well. The honours Prevention of Abuses Act 1925 could come into play. Simon Case said they'd taken initial advice, but had asked for more. I would have thought that asking for a peerage was probably pretty close to breaching the prevention of abuses. The Honours Prevention of Abuses Act 1925. Especially if you've got, I don't know column in the Daily Mail, in a tv show on one of Rupert Murdoch's platforms, because you could, you know, make life quite difficult. Make life quite difficult for you. I don't know, but there it is. That is. That is, as I told you, it's the best one yet. Dory's back to mystery. Lewis is in Putney. What's it gonna be, Lewis? Slowing down with age, James? Tell me about it, mate. Oh, you mean the question. Carry on. Yeah, you got it right. It's wear and tear. But to take it down and like the athlete, I wouldn't want to. Martin went to the Olympics, you know, he did. So to take it down to a basic biological sense, it's because of accumulated DNA damage that your body accumulates over time. So, you know, like back in the day when monks would copy the Bible from another monk or from another book. Sorry. And then he'd make a little mistake and then the next monk along would do the same and he'd copy the mistake. Basically, that's happening in every cell in your body all the time. They divide and then gradually over time, lots of little changes like that slow down different cells. So it reduces, like, hormonal activity and it happens in every cell in your body. And like you were saying, with the skin and the liver spots, the uv light causes DNA damage, which is why we should wear sunscreen. Ah, there it is. So that. So the DNA damage is what turns the cells, the pigment cells, into rogue pigment cells, producing liver spot ish. It's also your body compensating for the damage there, so it's trying to prevent further. Love it, love it, love it, love it. Qualifications? I have a degree in medical genetics and my dissertation was in premature aging, progeria syndrome. Oh, I don't think that's popped up before, has it? No. But this is the first time you talked about aging. I'm aware of some of your other qualifications, but I don't think we'd ever got onto the territory of what your actual thesis was about. I love it. Round of applause for Lewis. Very clever man, Lewis. If you haven't heard him on the program before, he's one to watch. 1252 is the time. Richard is in Brighton. Richard, question or answer? Answer. Oh, my goodness. This is like Lewis and I were conversing together in the pub beforehand. So you're now going to run with what Lewis has shared with us? Yes. So, underlying it all is the, as Lewis said, is the genetic mistakes that build up over time, and that results in a cumulative loss of what we call motor units, which are the link between nerves and the muscles. As we get older, we have a gradual loss in motor units, so our muscles become weaker and less powerful. And similarly, in terms of the supply of substrate, in terms of energy and oxygen to those muscles, as our cardiovascular system weakens over time, we get a gradual reduction in delivery substrate to those motor units which are less in number. And so we become less powerful, less explosive, less strong over time. But it's multifactorial in terms of loss of collagen, loss of elasticity in our tendons and muscles, and loss of higher centers in terms of how we control those muscles and how we react to things like the starting pistol. So all of that which accumulates and comes together results in a grand lot of performance over time. Absolutely beautiful. And that is, I mean, between the two of you. You've knocked out the park, haven't you? I've got it completely. And plus Martin giving us the specifics on the athlete as well. So that is. That is one of the most comprehensive mystery our answer's ever received. Oh, hang on. What are your qualifications? You might be making it up. I did an undergraduate degree in human biology. I'm also an anaesthetic consultant. Round of applause for Richard. Happy days. Um. I can't believe more people, actually. I've got too many in, too many messages coming in from my inbox, but I can't believe no one did. What time is it? 1253. I might, because I know you don't take questions by text, so this is from Kelvin, who's a trucker. He goes, hi, James. Question, please. If I lost or can't remember the password to my iPhone, what can I do about it? Tony's in Winchmore Hill. Tony, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Tony. It's your surname as well. Oh, yes. Around about the 15th, 16th century, people started leaving the land, and once they left the land that they were, you know, attenuated. Tilling. Tilling the lands that they had tilled. Sorry, say again? Tilled. They were tilling the land. They tilled the land. Yes. They sowed and they reaped. They did. But with the 1398, with the Black plague, with the black deaths, of course, that means that the working population is hard. People tend to leave the land to the city. Plus the growth of mercantilism and shops, people lose that identification with their surname as a profession. I think we're nearly there. So. Well, no, so when, which. So no, mercantilism would make it happen more that you'd be known as. As Terry, Tony the Cooper or Tony the miller, wouldn't you? Or. You're talking about Vinod. Village life. That's village life. So you would be. And then when you were living in the town, it became your name rather than your job description, is that what you're saying? Yeah. And of course, apprenticeships as well. Yeah, I like it. Early 15th century, then, are we roughly around there? I reckon about that time. Well, 1398 is the plague. That's the plague. And so then the move towards the town and people in the countryside would still be known as the Smith and the Cooper and the. But it just then sort of cross fertilized back out from the town to the countryside. Yeah, I think you're probably right. I think you're probably right. I think I probably am. But, well, I mean, I'm not a proud man. What did they write in the doomsday book? Did they not have family names then? Well, they would have been included, wouldn't they? Yeah. That's a long time before the. Before the black death, I don't think. In the doomsday book they. They included peasants who was only landowners. Yeah, by definition. Because he wanted to know how much land. Sorry, Jose. If you own the land, then you own the people on it. Yeah. There you go. All right, cool. So then you would have had. And posh people had names based on all sorts of things, really, didn't they? It's the old Noel Coward joke, isn't it, where a guy goes up to Noel Coward and says, my family have been here since he came over with the conqueror. No cow. But. And how are they finding it? Qualifications. Tony? I'm a professor of English. Beautifully done. Round of applause for Professor Tony, please. Thank you. No, thank you. And I look forward to the next time we haven't done the king's one. The point at which Tony might have been able to help with that one as well. Michael's in latent. Michael, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Thank you. Oh, yes. Yes. You had one similar before with regards to pubs and the names Earl and the Duke and so forth, which I think you quite well answered, but my. Me and my friend were debating something else with regards to the pubs and the signs. Go on, which. Which would be why they would use, like, foxes or dog or. Same reason. What was my answer to the last one? I cannot remember. Because. I mean, because I know this one. I know this one. Yeah, I know. I know this one. This is. This is because. Michael. Yeah? Back in the day, literacy levels were very low. So what a pub sign would do is it would be a pictogram. So if you and I were going to meet in the black Bull and neither of us could read, how would we know? How would we know that we had happened upon the black Bull? Unless you saw a picture got here. There it is. And I'll tell you, when it gets interesting, it gets interesting. And this is my own theory. I haven't actually examined or researched this, but when you come across some quite odd pub names, like, for example, you might come across the bell and crown. It's not an odd pub name, but I think that's because there are probably two bells nearby. So one of the landlords decided he would better stick a crown on his sign to distinguish himself from the bell. It became the bell and crown. Why are you looking at me like that. Sheila Fogarty. That's fascinating. Oh, good. I thought you were looking skeptical. No, I'm a satisfied listener. I'm very glad to hear. There's a lot of it about. There's a lot of it about. Are you. Are you happy with that answer, Michael? 1.4 million and one. And that. Exactly. I am more than happy. I'm probably going to go look for a bell and crown now to have a. There's a nice. There's a nice one in Chiswick, actually. Lovely, lovely on the river at this time of year. It's a fuller's pub, so, you know you'll be all right. Round of applause for me. Thank you. That's it from today, the winner is Martin Gillingham, everybody's favorite former Olympic hurdler turned rugby commentator and broadcaster. That was funny. That was really funny. Anyway, if you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player. You can rewind live radio or enjoy the whole show podcast. If you rewind to 1105 and 34 seconds, you will hear me predict the next stage in Boris Johnson's desperate attempts to avoid responsibility for anything which then actually happened at 1141. Even by my own standards, that's a new world record. All LBC shows are there. Biggest podcast the Mystery app podcast archive. So you can listen to hundreds of them. Rewind live radio on global player download for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com dot. Tom Sawbrook with you at four. Sheila Fogarty with you. Now, what I was actually thinking when you caught sight of my face was, I know a pub called the odd fellow. So what would the pictogram for that be? I don't know. Who would the pictogram for that be? I don't know. Think of a dead person. Just say that. Might be. Yeah, might of a coffin. I don't know. The odd fella. Not the dead fella, the odd fellow. The odd fellow. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, that. That's obviously a post pictogram period. A post pictogram period pub. Yeah. You definitely need to go home now. Thank you, James.