What's the difference between toilet paper and tissue paper?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. Gosh, is it that time already? Good. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio. The way it works. I'll explain to you briefly. If you already know what it works, like how it works, then you can put yourself place on the board. Now Jacob and Beth are in the chairs. Last week's standards are quite low, although we managed, thanks to my genius and talent, to extract some comic potential out of the general incompetence of the call selection process, this week, I'm supremely confident normal standards, normal services will be restored. Does this count as workplace bullying, Axel? Does it? The old. Crikey. All right, I take all that back. I love you. I love you. I love you all. Almost as much as I love Tom the train man. We will imminently begin our journey into the unknown. If you've got a question that needs an answer, ideally something that will make everybody listening, either go, oh, yeah, I've always wondered that, or I never knew that. Why does that happen? For example, do you know what's popped up as a result of our conversation about trains and Ryan in Essex describing the closure of a line near him? Ongar station. I have been reliably informed and I've checked. No fake news here, folks. Ongar station, referred to by Ryan. Former station, actually, of course. And actually, if they've shut the railway, is it still a station? There's a riddle for you. That's the kind of thing we do on misjab, but not quite that nebulous. It's one of the few places in the British Isles where you can see scorpions in the wild. There are wild scorpions living in the. In the old station. If someone's yanked my chain on that and I've been misled by my attempts to fact check it, I shall be rather embarrassed. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Here is mystery. Out. You've got a question. Who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence, whatever it may be. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need to ask that question. There are only really two caveats. Try not to be boring. Of course, we very rarely recognize that we're being boring. Boredom is very much in the ear of the beholder. But if your question is, for example, about motoring but not trains, we love trains. If your question is about motoring, then it may be just a little bit dull, as a general rule of thumb. Sounded like a poem then I just write thumb with thumb. I haven't got any more. Sorry. As a general rule of thumb, ask yourself whether or not it's likely that a significant number of people listening to the question you've just asked on the radio will be as interested or almost as interested as you will be in the answer. And if you can, in all honesty, say yes, I think they will, James. Then ring in and ask that question. It would be nice if we could avoid repetition, although frankly, my short term memory is shot to pieces. So I sometimes struggle to remember stuff that we did seven minutes ago, let alone seven years. There is an archive at LBC dot co dot UK comma, where you can check some of the previous questions and some of the previous answers offered. It's great fun, actually, even as a kind of online exercise. Regardless of whether you've got mystery on in the background or whether it's Thursday, you can go and have a look at it. But it's nice to check if it's really obvious. If it's one of those sort of hardy perennials that's almost been a book title for new scientist question and answer releases, then the chances are that we have dealt with it. Otherwise, that's pretty much it, isn't it? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a question. And also the number remains the same if you find yourself hearing a question to which you know the answer. Okay, are we good? Yeah. Should we go? Right. Pressure's on, folks. No workplace bullying here, though. Jack's in Woking. Jack, question or answer? Question. James. Come on, Jack. Um, well, I'm quite sure. So how much do you need, mate? I've always said to people, I'm due a growth spurt, but obviously I stopped. But my wisdom teeth have just started coming through and I'm 30. Yeah. Why does everything stop growing, but yet your wisdom teeth start growing so many years later? And your ear hair. Yeah, yeah. You've got. Yeah, you've got that to look forward to, my friend. Your nose hair, your ear hair and when you get really old, your ears. My, uh. My mother's late. With your wisdom thief. No, I'll find out. Why? What is it? What's going on with wisdom? I like that question because I want to get tall. I want my body to do the same. Yeah, you've got to get over that, mate. Seriously. This is, you know, the best things come in small packages, Jack. They do. Or small ones are more juicy. Small ones are more juicy. Depending on your favorite advertising slogan from the 1970s. I'll find out for you. I had an impacted, infected wisdom tooth once. I might do an hour on that tomorrow. Oh, lovely. It's eight minutes after twelve is the time. Wisdom teeth are fascinating. I mean, I don't know quite how to answer Jack's question. It do the straight why? Why do wisdom teeth, these things continue to grow or develop. But then presumably there'd be some sort of evolutionary explanation, would there? I don't know. We'll find out. Zero. 3456-060-9738 minutes after twelve and Aston is in Fulham. Aston, question or answer? It's a question. James. How are you, mate? Very well, mate. What do you want to know? Ok, my questions are who and when. I want to know who and when it was decided that number ten Downing street was going to be the home of our prime minister forever. Oh, I quite like that. I would have expected a Noel like me to know that. So would I, James. George Downing was the fellow who built. No, I'm not. I'm just going to try and make up for my intellectual inadequacies by talk until you think you've got. No, I'm not going to get an answer on this one. I'm doing the thing that's even more embarrassing than that thing that I usually do, that you've just described. I'm just going to tell you some stuff that is linked to your question but doesn't answer it in an attempt to pretend that I'm cleverer than I'm. Yeah, George Downing, I think, was his name and he died. He died in disgrace. Like a sort of property. Come on, mate, I'm just giving you the headlines on this. I'm pretty sure there was some sort of property speculation. It might have involved. It might have involved the South Sea bubble. It might have involved the South Sea bubble. Aston, I shall find out for you who and when or why and when would number ten be the home of the PM? It's all rhyming today. Next week, Beth, let's do mystery hour in rhyming couplets. And on the line from Cambridge is, Ed, what little question is bothering your head? Ed, question or answer? It's a question. Good morning, James. Good morning. So, apparently beer, a pint of beer is about 1990, 5% water. Yes. So my question is, how come when you drink too much of it, you get dehydrated? I don't have it. Does the answer involve areas of low concentration? Moving to areas of high concentration through a semi permeable membrane? I mean, that's my initial thought, but I have no idea. And to be fair, I thought about this when I was with a friend over in October. Yeah, because beer, I mean, it would be easier with something that's like 40% proof, wouldn't it? Or something like that. But something that's four and a half percent alcohol. Exactly. And I know that it's. And I've understood that the alcohol content is a diuretic, and that's fine, but given the percentage of water within it, I would have thought that that would have counteracted. I kind of. There's something I want to do that regular listeners are waiting for, but Axel hasn't got his. Hasn't got his gear together today, so I'm not. I'm not going to be able to do it. We'll see if someone rings in with you. So how can beer, which is 90% water, dehydrate a human body so effectively? Have you ever had a pint of bathams? No. Next time you're in the midlands, I would urge you to seek it out. Superb tipple. I will. I'll make sure of it. Thank you, Ed. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 have we got it yet? Is it working? Is it active? I have to see if a caller does it now. You've ruined my day. Axel, you think that was workplace bullying with the other two? Just you wait and see what's going to happen to you. At 01:00 today, Karen is in basing state. Karen, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. On days like today where it's absolutely bitterly cold. Yeah. Why do people say it's brass monkey? Because it's cold enough to freeze the bits off a brass monkey. Right. You don't sound pleased. Well, why does that have to be a monkey? Well, I don't know. That's a supplementary question. The figure of speech that has been abbreviated in your common parlance is it's cold enough to freeze the bits off a brass monkey, meaning that it's so cold, even something made of brass is likely to suffer from testicular frostbite. Right. Okay. Why. So why do you sound so skeptical? Because I just wondered why it had. Why then does it have to be a monkey? Why couldn't it have been something else? I presume that brass monkeys were a thing, but you're gonna have to ring in next week and ask that I've given you an answer. Okay. Sorry. You sound, like, so unsatisfied, Karen. Is this normal for you? Are you quite hard to please. No, it's just not that convincing of an answer. I don't know, it's just not really answered it. Well, it is that. The phrase refers to the bits of a brass monkey. All right, then, I'll leave it on the board. Origin of the phrase. We'll turn it into an origin of the phrase, will we? Thank you. All right. Honestly. 1212 is the time. Matt is in Tangley in Hampshire. Matt, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, mate. It's to the beer question. Why does it make you dehydrated? Good man. Alcohol in the beer is a diuretic. Diuretics dehydrate you? Yes. And doesn't matter how much you drink, you'll still be dehydrated. So you're going to mixture eight more than your body would want you to, simply by dint of having alcohol, however diluted in your system. And if you like me, you might have had one or two more than what you things can handle. You are making a little run to the men's room more often and you're actually excreting more liquid than you're taking in. So someone has suggested that if it's less than 4%, it won't work like that. But that doesn't fit. It doesn't fit? No. Because the diuretics are diuretic. Absolutely. Unless you're taking homeopathic style doses of it, in which case it won't have any impact on anything whatever Gwyneth Paltrow might believe. I wouldn't be in that. And the. And the fellow who asked the question did refer to its diuretic qualities, but felt there must be a more complicated or stronger answer. Bottom line is there isn't. No. That's it. You're going to wee it out. Good one. Qualifications? I've been a landlord for 30 years and I've just opened up a microbury. Have you? Whereabouts in Tangley? Not far. A place called Broughton. I've got two pubs and we've talked before about them. I serve thai food in them. Yes. Do you know, that was just ringing a bell. But I knew it wasn't beer last time. It was thai food. So what? Spicy. The spiciness of the scoffership shale. That's what I entered last time. There you go. Putting your landlording skills to extremely good use on this show. What's the name of the micro brewery? It's called test brewing test because it's in the test valley and we test out different styles and flavors and wicked. Yeah. And are you just supplying yourself at the moment or are you supplying other people as well? We're going to go through another, you know, other pubs in the area. We've bottled up quite a bit at the moment, so this is ground level. This is literally just. Just getting off its feet now. Yeah, I've got the first brew on my bar this week. How exciting. Best of luck, Matt. Seriously, thank you very much. Accept this small round of applause as a token of my encouragement. You're a good man. You're a good man. You've got two pubs, so I'm going to win this. Swapping of compliments, you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery arrow is upon us. Wisdom teeth. Why Downing street? When and who? And brass monkeys. What? Zero. 345-606-0973 Lee's in Bristol. Lee, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Bring it on, Lee. It is the brass monkeys. Oh, now, be careful. What's it all about? I will. The cannonballs are stacked on triangular brass monkeys and when they got too cold, they shrunk and the balls fell off on Royal Navy ships. It's just beautiful, isn't it? So it has nothing to do with testicular frostbite, as I erroneously suggested to the lady who asked the question? No, I doubt it. No. Well, clearly not. So the brass monkey is the. Is the. Is the cannonball holder. The ball holder? Yeah. If it's really, really cold, it contracts ever so slightly, but enough to allow the cannonballs to slide off it? Yeah. Oh, man alive, that's just beautiful. Have we never done this before? I don't think so, no. Nor do I. How long have you been listening? Um, a couple of months. Oh. It's been running for about ten years. So I don't know that you're a tester. I don't know how useful your evidence is in the. In this. Oh, you've got yourself around. What are your qualifications, Axel? Navy. That'll do nicely. Well done, mate. Take a round of applause. Thank you. I love that. Also, hearing from people who are friends with the Batham family, I probably should stop going on about Batham's bitter. Everyone's going to think I'm after a freebie. I'm totally not. Although, you know, Fraser's in Sunbury. Fraser, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Fraser. Right, so I've been growing my hair for about three and a half years now. It's very long, it's very thick. My sister's quite jealous. Yeah, so am I now. Oh, your head's lovely, James. It's not. It's running out. It's seriously full. Anyway, don't, don't. I'm pretty cool about it, so. Yeah, I am. Every time I. Well, every time I wash it, there's always, like, hair that's coming out and it's always in the sink. And every time I'm combing it, there's always hair. It gets mucked up, it stays in the comb, basically. And I've been doing this for four years. Yeah, and I just want to know how it maintains the thickness. But you've just phoned up to boast about being the Michael Bolton of sunbury, haven't you? Really? Yeah. Well, how does my hair maintain its luscious thickness? Just. I don't know, Fraser, do you wash and go? No, I'm a head and shoulders man for you. Tim, how does my James James mystery out? Could you just tell me why my hair is so lovely and luxuriant and long, and how does it retain its amazing thickness? I don't know, Fraser. Do you use Tim or tape? Well, I just wanted the country to know that it's lovely. I don't clearly understand what the question is. The longer it is, the more you're going to notice when it falls out, that's all. It's not falling out more than shorthead does, it's just longer. This is why. I mean, no offense, mate, but it's why you're the one that's clogging up the shower, not, not. Not whoever you share your life with. Yeah, I don't know. Just. I just. I don't know. I can't. I don't know. No, that's all it is. There's no. There's no. The length of your hair has no bearing upon how much of it falls out. The only thing that it affects is how noticeable the fallout is. My hair falls out the same rate as yours does. But it's so pathetic and sparse that, um, I barely. I barely trouble the plug hole. Misses O'Brien sometimes when she has a sh. I've got to go and get a bottle of plug on blocker before I can use it after her. She might not thank me for that, especially if she shaved her legs. Shut up. Stop it. Oh, dear. All right, so that's all it is. Well, unless I've misunderstood your question, in which case you really were phoning into us. Hey, how come I've got such amazing hair? James, any thoughts? No, no, I promise not. Can you, before you go, just give it a flick. I've got to. Sorry. That was a bit of a sound effect on that one. Just give us a proper flick. You don't need any sound effects. I just want to feel it. I want to feel it. You can't hear it. I don't need to hear it. I just want to feel it. Give it a flick, man. Okay. Sorry. Okay. I had a ponytail in 1990. 1991. God, I missed my hair. I got in touch with someone on Facebook the other day. She was very kind about my hair and it just. Just made me miss it all the more. Kieran is in Harrow Kiran. Question or answer? Question, buddy. Carry on. Why is a box ring square? Because it was originally a circle. So why have they changed it to a square and still got it a boxing ring? Because it was a circle defined by the crowd who would be watching inner circle and the fighters would fight in a ring in the middle of the crowd. But when it became a more formalized and raised up onto a platform, it made a lot more sense to have corners so that the boxers had somewhere to go in between rounds. Okay, fair enough. Thank you. I've got some foleys free. Seriously, be quick. I think Beth's been a bit strict after my entirely tongue in cheek suggestion that last week's question selection was a little bit below par. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Did I take a round of applause for the hair question? I don't think I did. So we'll leave that on the board cautiously. All right? Wisdom teeth, if anyone knows, because evolutionary, evolutionarily, they don't make any sense. All they do is cause problems. You don't need them. They should really probably have been evolved out of existence. And when I had a problem with my. Did I tell you what the dentist said? You might. If we did have to extract them, we'd have to break your jaw under a general anesthetic, I think, or something like that. And there's a slim chance after they've done that kind of surgery that it can affect your voice. I thought, my voice is my fortune. I can't be running around messing with that. But if you know the answer, I'd love to hear it. Zero. 345-606-0973 why does the prime minister to live at Downing street? When did it start? And whose idea was it? And we've done the brass monkeys and we'll leave the hair question on the board because the fellow who asked it was so charming. Jack's in Bristol. Jack, question or answer? This is an answer to the wisdom teeth, James. Oh, how splendid. Carry on. Well, you're absolutely right in terms of saying evolutionary, because it is evolutionary if you think our diet used to be, you know, unprocessed foods, uncooked foods, it used to be a lot of raw sort of things like, you know, nuts and vegetation, things like that. And of course, other animals, you know, horses, and they have teeth that sort of constantly grow because they're constantly being worn away by the sort of grass that they're chewing on and stuff like that. Like a rat. Like a rat has to gnaw, otherwise its teeth will grow so long that it will kind of stab itself in the stomach every time it sneezes. Yeah, so we don't have that, obviously. And of course, the consequence would have been that teeth would have, you know, rotted away over time and then. So you needed new teeth. You need new teeth. Exactly. Yeah. That seems pretty plausible to me. What are your qualifications? My wisdom teeth started coming through about a year or two ago, and I looked it up at the time. So I've just known ever since. That's beautiful. And it makes. I love that. It makes perfect, perfect sense. And they were known as the wisdom teeth because they came with age. And supposedly with age comes wisdom. Absolutely. Round of applause for Jack. No, thank you very much. 26 minutes after twelve, Clara is in Leeds. Clara, question or answer? Question. Okay, carry on. So I just have a question for you about what is the difference in process that makes trees wood, or. I mean, wood paper or tissues? It's just thickness, isn't it? But then, like, how do they do the difference in densities? And, like, it's not just a thickness, like there's such different qualities. What's the difference between. What's the manufacturing difference between paper that you write on and tissue paper? Exactly. Different ingredients, even perhaps ingredients. Well, it may be. Maybe not wood in tissue paper. It may be something else. Yeah, that's true. It's a very odd question, if you don't mind me saying so, Clara, where does it come from? What? I've just been wondering for a while. No, okay. Well, I'm not going to. I mean, you know, it's better to wonder about things than not. I'll try and find out for you. So really, we want to know the difference, the processing, the production differences between tissues and writing paper or wrapping paper. Papery paper. Paper, paper, paper. Well, I look forward to hearing it next time you get through to mystery. Oh, a question. A few weeks ago. It doesn't work like that. You should have rung in with that. If a question goes unanswered in a previous week, you want to ring in and ask it again, that's your go. Used up. Honestly, people playing fast and loose with the rules, don't they realize how much effort I put into making them up every week? Catherine's in Ricelli. Catherine, question or answer? It's question. Okay, Catherine, you know, when a person dies in Ireland, they have a wake. They do. I just really want to know, what exactly where did that originate from and what exactly does it mean? Apart from the fact, you know, they lay in the house for about two days and two nights, and somebody sits up with them. But I just really want to know what it really does mean. Oh, originally, it wasn't the knees up that you had after the funeral. It was. It was sitting up all night. It was like a vigil where you'd sit up all night and observe the body. Sit up with the body, which we don't really do anymore, do we, as Catholics? Well, I've never done it. No. I think. I think my brother in America says that sometimes to have a wake and an island, they're getting more. Having funeral. You know, funeral parlors. Yes. So it is dying out a little bit, but, you know, I wouldn't like it to die out because I thought it was a very nice thing. Does it mean that they're frightened in case the body wakens up again or something? I think it might, yeah. But I'm not gonna. I'm not gonna put that up as an answer. I'm gonna wait until someone confirms it from a position of knowledge and expertise. Okay. Yeah, no, I mean, it's a lovely answer, but I hope it's kind of right. I presume it's got some link to. You get the wake after a boat, though, don't you? Yeah. So it could be that, you know, the little bit after a life that's not. That's not going to fly. You sound like quite a hard task, Mistress Catherine. I don't think you're going to accept any sort of half assed answers, are you? Let's find out for Catherine what the origin of awake is in the context of christian burial or funerals or death. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number you need. So we've got wakes, tissues, hair, downing street and wisdom teeth. What's not to like? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Wisdom teeth was a lovely answer, wasn't it? I never thought of it quite well, when you think about it, why does the prime minister live at Downing street? Whose idea was it? When did it start? I'm surprised people don't know that one. Tish, what's the difference between the production process for writing paper and tissues? I understand that question from Clara up in Leeds. It might sound a bit weird, but I do get it. And now I'm quite interested. And why do we call awake awake? The bit where you sit with the body overnight after a death. And I want a proper answer with qualifications and evidence rather than just speculation. Even if the speculation that Clara and I. Not Clara and I. That the lady who asked the question and I indulged in Catherine. It was, wasn't it? Even if our speculation is correct, I need you to go definitive on it by providing qualifications and evidence. And there's a nice question about hair, which, if you didn't hear it, you'll never know what it was. Gary is in Hartley. Gary, question or answer? Hi, James. This is a question, and it's a little bit of a deeper question than I think you've had in the last half hour, so bear with me. Go on. Where is the proof that we're revolving around the sun? And the reason I asked that question is because there's something called vortex theory, and that is we're running around the tail of the sun as it hurtles off into space. So where is that? Where is the proof? Okay, I think you're right. It's too deep and heavy for the likes of us that Gary Wayne's in Basildon. Wayne. Question or answer? It's an answer to your ridiculous answer on the ring. Right, listen, pal, you don't ring up radio's James O'Brien. However. However far back our acquaintanceship may go, you do not ring up radios James O'Brien with his 1 million listeners a week and start weighing in with that sort of language. All right, listen, mate. You listen, mate. You cooked my wife's cheesecake recipe last week, so you owe me. All right? I did. It was fantastic. Now, what do you want anyway? Right, you're. Have you ever heard the term squared circle? Yes. Yeah. That's where the origins of the comes from. So you're questioning my boxing ring answer? Yeah, because you can't square off a circle in a perfect circle. So you put the four posts in to separate the punters from the wrestlers or the boxers, and that's why you have the square circle. The ring was originally a circle, but to separate the two. You had to put a post in. And as soon as you put the posts in, you've got. You've got. You've got a square. Yeah, I was kind of right. I just did it. I just got it the wrong way around. You've done it from the outside of the. Of the. Of the square. I was doing it from the inside, thinking that the poor little fighters needed somewhere to go during the break in the rounds. But of course, they could have anywhere. Wherever you put the bucket. Qualifications. Yeah, go on. Massive wrestling geek. Is that right? So you looked into it? Yeah, love it. How many rounds of applause? It's been a while, Wayne. It's been a while. Oh, no, I've got the other people. Have a go. Yeah, look at that. You see socialism in action. Round of applause for Wayne. That's fine. We'll get together before Christmas, will we? Oh, mate. Yeah, definitely, yeah. Let me know. All right. 1238 is the time. Peter is in Leighton Buzzard. Peter, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. On the wake. Yes. Back in. I don't know whether it was actually many evil times or beyond that medicine wasn't nearly as good as it is or accurate as it is now. So when somebody died, they would actually lay them out for 24 hours or so to see if they came around. I think that's highly plausible. That is where Catherine and I, our speculations had led us. Which leads to my crucial question now, which is, what are your qualifications? Just simply saw it on a documentary about a year ago and I remembered it as soon as the question came up. That'll do. Do we remember any other details of the documentary? It was generally about. I can't remember if it was about the fire of London and they brought it up, but it was about, you know, old times. Anyway, that'll do nicely. Round of applause for Peter. Lovely work. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you've got a question, or if you can answer the questions about Downing street hair and tissue paper. Um, is that all we've got left? Oh, yes. Uh, Jordan is in Stockport. Jordan, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. I didn't think I'd get through. Oh, no, that doesn't fill me with joy. Jordan, why didn't you think you'd get through? Um, well, I don't know. It's a bit of a hard one. Oh, okay. It's a bit of a hypothetical question. It doesn't have anything to do with the sun rotating around the earth or the earth rotating around the sun, does it? Um, no, not quite. Not quite. What do you mean, not quite? Oh, you'll see. Okay, so my question. Have you ever been trolled by your own colleagues? Constantly. All right, well, that makes two of us. Go on. So if you were in a hot air balloon or something, that raises you very slowly away from the earth. Yeah. I'm wondering, at what point would you notice, or what height would you notice the earth starting to rotate? You wouldn't. At some point you would surely. I don't think you would. At no point you would notice the earth. I can't see how it's happening so slowly. It's slower than the eye. The naked eye could register. Okay, sorry. I know. Don't be sorry, because I'm probably being wrong. So at what height. From what height could you see the earth rotate? Yeah. Well, you've seen the pictures from space. Yeah, exactly. But there must be, like, a minimum. So if they. If they used a video camera rather than a stills camera from space, you'd be able to. I don't think you'd ever be able to see, like, videos of using people using weather balloons. And they've put a camera in it and they've obviously, the balloon burst before it, you know, gets to a good height where you can see it rotate. I'm wondering, like, hypothetically, we had something better than that. I like it. I think I like it. I think I do as well. Whereabouts in Stockport are you? Bradbury. No way. Yes, I. Shut up. I know Bradbury really well. Yeah? Yeah. Do you know Gilwood drive? It would drive. No, it's on the big estate, you know, never. You've got the primary school, you've got all the shops on your left. And then you go past the primary school and you make your way down into that. The Bradbury Green I'm talking about now. Vaguely. What do you mean, vaguely? I thought Bradbury was tiny. Get the train from Romley, right? Yeah, sometimes I do, yeah. Small world. 1241 is the time. I can't. I was trying to remember the name of my favorite. What's the favorite? Stockport based beer. Jordan. I don't like Stopport base beers, man. Why? You're Boddington's man. No, let's see. I like brew dog at the moment. Oh, do you go a bit hipster? All right, fair enough. There's a lovely. As it begins with M. Can't remember what it is. A brewery based in Stockport. Anyway, I've done too much beer today. 1242 is the time. As Jordan mad. Or will there be a point at which from a higher balloon, you could see the earth rotating. Is that how I pronounce your name? Yoel? Yes, it is. Yoel. Yola in bushy. Yoel. Question or answer? An answer, James. Yul, as in Yul Brynner. Sorry, Jule, as in Yule Brynner. Yule y u l or Yul Moshe Salomon, if you heard of. Great, let's just pretend that I have move on, shall we? What are you going to tell us? Okay. The answer for the hair issue. The poor guy, I feel bad for him. I'm trying to grow my hair for years. Just my wife won't allow me. Yeah. Anyway, basically, the quality of the hair basically determines by what you eat. Protein, amino acids, good fats for the body and stuff like that. That determines the quality for the hair. Yes. And why the poor guy, if the hair is falling, is there it not falling, it's just dying, basically. Yes, exactly. And he's only noticing because it's long. Exactly. It's noticing because it's long. And every time there's a hair dye, a few grows back. Yes. So he's got nothing to worry about. Except when you reach my stage in life. Because at some point in my twenties, the hair was falling out and it wasn't growing back, y'all. Yeah. That's genetics, I'm afraid. Is it really? That's one of the other problems. We're being adopted. I've got no idea what my genetic future might hold. Receding. Oh, well, it's good and bad. It's good and. But. So why won't your wife let you grow your hair because you're receding, not because I'm basically, you know, women. Come on. There's no logic, mate. Come on, it's 2017. We're moving away from those sort of positions. There must be logic. She's probably got a logical reason that you don't like. She thinks you look. She thinks you look silly. If you're receding, mate. If you're receding, if your hair is receding and your wife is discouraging you from growing it long, she is doing you a favor, friend. How do you look? Like Ron Jeremy. You don't hold on to your youth by growing your hair long. As it continues to fall out at a rate of knots, you do the precise opposite it, you know, unless you sort of go for a full Donald Trump. I just. Just embrace it. Embrace it. But it's a lovely answer. What are your qualifications? Studied biology in high school for I was. That was excelling, actually. I was excelling. In biology at school. So this is one of those topics that you learn about. Love it, love it, love it, love it. Round of applause. 1244 is the time. Sam's in Croydon. Sam, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Where does it originate from that we'd put our thumbs up or down, meaning good or bad or yes or no. Roman Empress, isn't it? I don't know. Have you seen gladiator? No. You've not seen Gladiator? Not much of a films person, really. No. Robinson's mate is the name of the brewery in Stockport. Doesn't begin with Emma talk. I've got some brilliant listeners. Nice pint of Robinson's. If I ask you what you do in your leisure time, am I going to regret it? Well, I'm a 21 year old boy. You don't like films? No, I don't like them. Just the thought of sitting there watching an hour and a half is just a bit long winded sometimes. Yeah, I hear you gladiators about 3 hours long as well, I think so that kind of proves your point for you, I think. I think what happened was right. You know what gladiators are, you know, the roman fight, you know, chuck them to the lines or what have you. And then when I've got you on the ground, because you just lost, sadly, for the purposes of this bit of mental theatre, I've got you on the ground and I've got my blade against your throat. And I look up to the emperor, and he's got his thumb on the horizon. He's got his thumb sideways, neither up nor down. And if he puts it up, you're dead. You're toast. And if he puts it down, you're going to live to fight another day. I think that's where it began. I kind of see what you mean now. Yeah, I suppose it makes sense. Yeah. So I'd give somebody. Do you want to share a round of applause on this? Yeah, go on. Is that not the answer? Oh, hang on. It's no. Axel's been in touch to say it's not the answer. Sam, what's the last film you saw? The Pennywise the clown film. The Stephen King one. Yeah. Okay. That was pretty long, wasn't it? Yeah, it was, but I was kind of a bit excited for it, you know? Yeah, yeah, no, I do. Yeah, I do. All right, well, I'll try and get you an answer about the old thumbs up and thumbs down, because Axel's sort of ruined our fun, rained on our parade, thinking that we got there in the end. So mind how you go. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. You are listening to mystery out where we still need our Downing street. Has no one done Downing street? I'm pretty sure he was called. The fellow was called Downing. He was a bit of a wrong and he lost a bunch of money. But before he lost all his money, he'd managed to build that street, which was a street. It's not really a proper street anymore. Even though it's called Downing street, it's only got about 910 and eleven on it. But who. Who decided that the prime minister should live there? And when? And possibly even a little bit of why? What's the difference in production between writing paper and tissue paper? I'm quite intrigued by that question. Now, how high up in the air would you have to be in order to see the rotation of the earth? I sneaky suspicion that question from Jordan in Stockport might not be as daft as I initially suspected. 034-560-6973 is the number you need. And I think that's it. So we've probably got time for a couple more questions. Stu is also in Stockport. I'm very big in Stockport. I've noticed you. I might make a state visit next year. What have you got for me? Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Hello, mate. What is it? Okay, so, essentially, bear with me on this one. I was watching a documentary on the tv last week. Can't remember what it was. And there was some incidental music in the background. And I was thinking, I recognize that music, but I can't pinpoint what it is. It's on the tip of my tongue. Yeah. What is the process that's going on in your mind where you know something, but you can't access that information? You've almost got it, but it's to do with. It's to do with whether it's in your Rom or your ram memory. Someone explained to me once, so, you know, you can remember. I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what. I don't know what the name is and we'll find out for you, but I want people to understand exactly what the question is. Frederick Hitch. Stu. Right. Frederick Hitch. Okay. Frederick Hitch. My daughter is really into her history at the moment, so I'm always looking for things nearby that I can use to keep the interest alive. And there's a burial ground near my local church. And I've got a little booklet about the church and the river Thames and the relationship between just the church and the village, the town. And Frederick Hitch is buried in that place. And I will now never forget that. Frederick Hitch got a Victoria cross awarded by Queen Victoria herself for his bravery at Rorke's drift. And then when he moved back, when he came back home, he was a taxi driver. I think he's the only taxi driver ever to get a Victoria cross. And presumably it would have been a horse drawn cab then, in that era. And I was telling my eldest about it and I couldn't remember. I knew that there was a taxi driver who'd got a Victoria Cross. So that bit of your memory you've got access to, but you need to do something, you need to drill down to something to get it into the bit of your memory that you can always like old, old memories. It's relevant to dementia, this, because you know how people with dementia can sometimes remember stuff that happened 50 years ago, but they can't remember their own name? Yeah. That. That is. That is at the heart of your question. So I went back to my books and I've now got Frederick Hitch filed away. I'm never going to forget his name as long as I live. So you want to know. Well, someone cleverer than me to explain that. That relationship between deep memory and shallow memory. Yeah. Why does it feel like you've almost got it? Like you've sort of narrowed it down and you can think, yeah, it's. It's my example. Yeah. I knew the music was from a film. I knew that it had a. Because it's there. Science fiction film, sort of there. But I like it. It'll be something to do with different types of memory and where you've got stuff filed away. But whether or not there's a name for it or. Well, let's find out. I'm talking too much. We've only got five minutes left. Whereabouts in Stockport are you, Stu? Well, I live in Davenport. Oh, okay. So a bit further down. I don't know Davenport. So I'll stop trying to show off my knowledge of the British Isles now and crack on with mystery. Ask. Do you mind? How you go? Michael's in Wickford. Question or answer, Michael. I've got an answer. Carry on. It was the. What height do you have to be to notice the rotation of the earth? It's not a question of height, it's a question of time. Go on. Because, like you say, you can be at the top of a hill to see the rotation. Or what you think you could be flying 40,000ft of aircraft or like you mentioned earlier, go up to space. Yeah. Try and see the rotation. But the end of that is still picture. So what you need is a moving picture. You need time to judge or see the rotation of the earth. Good example is at night, if you leave your camera on at night, leave the shutter open for 30 seconds, stars will be blurred because they've moved a tiny bit. That's it, yeah. And if you leave the shutter open for ten minutes, you'll see the stars will be blurred because that'd be the rotation of the earth in relation to a fixed object in space. Wow. Relatively fixed. So can it roughly. Yeah, no, it sounds very plausible to me. And plausibility is half. Half the battle. Michael, what then? To answer the fellow's question, could he ever be anywhere where he could see the earth rotate? If he got. We'd have to be in some sort of. No, that's the thing, because it's not a question of a place, it's time. It could be anywhere. You could be. Yeah, but I think he means with the naked eye. He means with the naked eye. So rather than having to leave a shutter open, is that the height, the perspective from which you'd actually be able to physically see the height, to see the curvature of the earth? But in terms of the rotation of the earth, it's just a time thing. But I think to see the curvature of the earth, you can. You think in maybe 50, 60,000ft upwards, which is. Which is slightly higher than most commercial jets and it's just military aircraft above that. I'm going to give you a round of applause. A, because I believe you, and b, because incorrigible FCA has just tweeted utter nonsense. And I think that's unnecessarily rude. What are your qualifications, Michael? I'm a commercial pilot. That's very nicely done. So sit out the window and see the curvature of the earth just about all day. Let's do it. 1256 is the time Kevin is in Leeds. Kevin, question or answer? Answer. Go on. Basically, to the paper. Question. Yeah, really straightforward. Paper is made from wood. To create it, you dissolve the wood in water and then you apply the slurry paper and water mixed together onto a moving belt. That in turn sucks the water out, leaving you with, like, a blotting paper. Yeah. So all paper starts like that, and then you either apply pressure, heat or a coating to it to actually make it stronger, shinier, whatever end result you want. And basically as simple as that. Well, you say simple. So if I wanted to make tissue paper. If you want me to get really complicated, you've got wood free paper, which is made by dissolving the wood with chemicals, or you can chop it up with blades or make it from recycle, but, you know, the fundamentals are all the same. What are your qualifications, Kevin? Well, I started out life with a degree in printing sciences and used to test raw paper coming into printing companies. And then you were a paper. You were a paper tester. Correct. What we thinking, guys? How often do you listen to mister? Well, whenever I'm in the car, which is quite frequently. Do you know what? Even when I'm in America, I listen to LBC on digital radio. Bless you, mate. Do you know what the highest accolade I can give you is on this program? Well, you could send me 50 quid. That'd be good. It's better than that. It's better than that. Kevin. So surprised that money can't buy it. You've actually got. You did a degree in printing and paper and you worked as a paper tester. Yeah. And you find in to answer a question about paper. Yes. The first time I've ever known any answers to any question. Didn't just know it. You did it. You did it. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. We can possibly. If we're very quick and Beverly doesn't mind, we might be able to tick off everything on the list today. Jeremy's in common. Quickly, Jeremy, question or answer? Answer. Go on. Thumbs up. Yes, you're almost right, actually. In ancient Rome, it thought to predate ancient Rome. Within gladiatorial contest, they actually used thumbs up, which was thought to mean raise the sword to finish the guy off. Yes. It was a much later painting. In the classical era, for some reason, artists show thumbs up and thumbs down, so you're almost right. Round of applause for Jeremy. Qualifications? Qualifications. I did classics at Oxford. There you go. See what a high class of listener we. Oh, hang on. So did Boris Johnson. I take about that compliment. Mark's in tooting Mark. Question or answer? Quickly. Quickly. Downing street donated to Robert Walpole by George II in the early part of the 18th century. Early 17 hundreds, basically. George II spoke little or no English. Robert Walpole was first lord of the treasury, so he was our de facto first prime minister. And you write about George Downing. He was an absolute cowboy. Qualifications? Chairman of footprints of London, London's largest independent and accredited group of tour guides. That'll do nicely. Thank you very much. Robert Walpole, of course, very famously associated with Chiswick, as is Beverly Turner, who's here to do Sheila Fogerty's holiday cover. And if that's not the smoothest segue you've ever heard, I am an EU approved Bendy Banana. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.