Can a swan break your arm?

BC three minutes after twelve is the time. And I actually know I sort of artificially inject a little bit of bounce into my voice. Like you, I'm still profoundly moved by the conversations that we heard in the last hours pass on to everybody who did ring in the deep, heartfelt thanks of lots of people who've been in touch over the course of the news bulletin. But it is now time for, as promised, a complete change of pace. This is. It's a little bit of radio magic. I don't do the magic seriously, I just provide the cauldron. You do. You do all the spells. The way it works is this question nestling somewhere in the back of your mind to which you know there must be an answer, but you have thus far been unable to find it. Now, maybe you could find it by employing a search engine or some sort of form of online encyclopedia. But here's the thing. This hour of radio is a bullock, a line of defense, a wall, if you will, holding back the march of technological tyranny. This is a celebration of old fashioned style, knowledge and education. And to take, well, the idea that you've got illumination somewhere inside you as a result of something you've seen or read or heard, actual learned knowledge, which is going out of fashion, because you don't really need to know stuff anymore. You can google everything at the drop of a hat, which is the first rule of mystery hour. You're not allowed to google anything. You're only allowed to answer the questions that you hear asked. If you know already what the answer is. That's why I will ask you what your qualifications are, and you will tell me the reason why you know what you know. What's particularly interesting about the qualifications question is that you don't need to have a degree. You say, what are your qualifications? Some people get a bit spooked when they're new to the show, and they say, oh, well, I haven't really got any. I mean, why do you know what you know? So you could say, I saw it on telly last night, or you could say, as one of our most regular contributor regularly does, you could say, well, I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, James, and we'll go, oh, have a round of applause for going definitive. That is it. The only rules for questions are no repetition and no dullness, which is really my job to police, to be honest with you. Dullness. You can probably get an inkling of yourself. It's just ask yourself this. If I stood up in a room full of people and asked this question, how many would be interested in the answer? If you think you've got a rough majority, then crack on. Zero 345-606-0973 if you think that the majority of people in the room where you've stood up and asked your question would throw rotten tomatoes at you or shout, sit down, you boring freak, then don't ring in. Don't call. Zero 345-606-0973 the question, of course, remains, or beg your pardon, the number remains the same regardless of whether you're ringing in with a question or an answer. That's it. Should we crack on? Phone lines are already full. I will only say the phone number when I have phone lines free. Okay, so judicious use of redial is the answer. And yes, in response to a question that I've now lost, yes, I will reinstitute the Twitter mystery. I one question a week via Twitter. I can't do it this week, but it's for the benefit of all the people who listen on podcast. Danny is in Woodford. Danny, question or answer? It's a question, James. I'm scared now because I'm worried that it's going to be dull. And I promise myself I wouldn't call in unless I've actually got a question that I want to know the answer. I'm not going to think and make one up. I respect. I respect your honesty. I'm a little troubled by your querulousness. Well, I came across one this morning and what it is, I've been talking to trail running, and I'm running in the forest and I'm seeing all the, like creatures, animals, birds chasing the worms, foxes chasing the duck, squirrels. And that's the way it occurred to me. All the animals that eat other animals are hiding. Now I'm going to get. The ducks are in the water, and the foxes absolutely will not go in the water. They won't go near it. They won't. The ducks are safe in the water. So I started wondering, why are foxes the only wild animal that will not go in water? What do you mean, the only wild animals that will? I knew you were going to do that. So I may modify the question a bit and say, can you get off hands free? Are you on hands free? I want to take the mickey out of you and I can't do it if you're on hands free. Yeah, that's much better. Right, bring it on. Go on. Modify the question then. So, basically, right, Hopkins will not go in the water. And I'm thinking, why is that? I don't know about cats, but cats are not wild animals. And tiger, if not foxes, why is it that some animals will go in the water and not others? Now you know. Okay. Some animals have wild predators. They've learned. I know. Well, just wind your neck in, Danny. I don't know if it's even true that foxes won't go in the water. What about the gingerbread man? That famous story of the gingerbread man, it gets a lift over the river off the fox and then eats and he says, why'd you do that? Because I'm a fox. Is that. Now I think you talk about the scorpion, isn't it? The scorpion in the front there? In my nature, I don't think, I don't think. I think foxes go in the water. You're saying they do go in the water? Okay. I don't think they do. How many did you see? How many did you see on this amazing run through? It sounds like something a Beatrix potter, your morning running. I go through it quite, yeah. Now, often do you see the duck in the water going, the fox is stuck on the shore going, oh, you pesky duck, you foiled me again. No, no, the fox is around the edge of the pond. How many? How many foxes around the edge of the pond? I'm not standing there counting them, I'm running. My phone lines got even worse. All right. I mean, I mean, your question is bogus on almost every imaginable level. They are not the only wild animals that don't go near water. I'm not convinced that they don't go near water at all. And I mean. All right, I'll put it on the board. Danny. No, I can't. Phone's too bad. Alright, nine minutes after twelve, we'll find out. I'll see if anyone understands your question better than I do and we'll get them to answer it. Not the most auspicious of starts, Danny. Frankly, James is in Totnes. James, question or answer? James question, please carry on. If you're fixing a piece of paper using sellotape, say, to a parcel or something similar. Yeah. Why does the paper rise up to meet the sellotape? Well before they make contact? Almost like a magnet. What if you get a piece of paper? Right. No, I understand the question. I'm struggling to see what you describe in my mind's eye. So you're sending, I don't know, a parcel via ebay or whatever. It would be static electricity, wouldn't it? I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, it must be. But. Well, you know, within about a centimeter, one will rise. Static electricity. Yeah. Same reason a balloon sticks to your jumper. Yeah. Where's the static come from? Oh, no, that's not what you asked. Yeah, but you give me a. No, no, no. Supplementaries on mystery. I. Mate, I'm not sure how's. What's the weather like in totnes at the moment? Raining today. Is it flipping boiling yesterday? I know, it's been shocking lately. Isn't it? Nice part of the world. I tell you, I got a postcard banning me from Devon. Why? I got a postcard off a racist saying, we saw you in our little town. You are not welcome here. It is a white english town. It's probably. No, it wasn't. I'm not. I'm not going to tell anyone where it was because it was a beautiful town and I hate anyone to think that. That that person was representative of the population. It was a town with no bookshops, though I don't know whether that is pertinent. I'm going to. Well, do I have to leave that on the board or. Can I take this? Can I have the round of applause, James? I don't know. I'm not convinced. I'm not sure. Static. Static. Or as the last caller would describe it, static. 1211 is the time. All right, I'll leave it on the board. Stellar tape and foxes. Did anyone hear me explain what the rule was for not getting on due to being dull? Or was I just sort of barking at the moon on that one? Joe is in Greenwich. Joe, question or answer? Hi, James. Question, please. Yes, so, I work at a pub called the Joiners Arms, and my question is. Good work. Good work there for the boss. The Joiners arms in Greenwich, is it? Yeah, near enough. Go on. So, I was wondering what arms is like. You've got the king's arms, the swan's arms. I wanted to know what. Swans arms. Where's the swans arms, then, Joe? I must pop in for a pint sometime. I'm not sure. I think I passed it on. The king's arms. The joiner's arms. What do you mean by arms? Well, I don't know, literally, honestly. Pub site. Pub questions almost always are answered by reference to the fact that they used to be pictograms. So they would go back to the days when literacy was quite rare and illiteracy was very common. And you would recognize a pub by the pictogram that would depict the name of the pub. So whether or not the joiners arms would have. I don't know if there's a guild of joiners that had its own coat of arms that people would have recognised back in the day, and that would have been on the. On the pub sign or whether it actually refers to the limbs. And somehow there'd be a picture that made it clear these arms belong to a joiner. I mean, the king's arms are more likely to be the insignia. Coat of arms is what you need to think of. And it would be linked with professions. It would link back to trades, and it would date back to the days when you couldn't read the letters joiners arms. But you knew the sign for a joiner, a joiner's arms. So then you'd pop into that pub. Okay, well, look at lost. Seriously. What do you mean? You're not convinced you've been drinking in the swan's arms? Tell me what? I don't know. I just. I'd like you. Maybe a definitive answer is a definitive. I'm gonna go a bit cross in a minute. I invented. All right, then. Okay, so join King Joiner's arms. King's arms. If I'm right, what. What penance are you gonna pay? What forfeit are you gonna do? Make your pull your house pipe on the house? I get that anyway, wouldn't I? Don't you give all Zed list celebrities a free pint when they pop into the joiner's arms in Camberwell? Oh, you'd be surprised. Yeah, I wouldn't. What are your guest ales at the moment? Sorry, what? Your guest ales at the moment. You got a nice ipa on or anything like that? We got madness. I'll do all right. I'll see what I can do. If I'm right and you owe me a drink. It's 1213. Brian is in high Wycombe. Brian. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Oh, go on, then. Which one? They're all a bit rubbish. Well, seriously. No, hang on, Brian. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Honestly, don't. Don't hold back. Don't pull your punches. Bit rubbish so far. The questions. Don't you feel well, I've actually been on. Hold on here, so I've not been listening to it because my radio is off. Going from bad to worse. Go on, Brian, quickly, fill your boots. Yes, regarding foxes going into water, the only time they go into water is to get rid of their fleas. What they do is gently walk into the water, get deeper and deeper. Slowly get so all the fleas then gather on the top of the. Over the neck onto the head and eventually the fox will just dip under the water and leave all the fleas in the water and the fox will walk away with no fleas. That doesn't really answer the question of why. I mean, first of all, foxes are not the only wild animals that don't go in water, obviously, but that doesn't answer the question of why they don't go in the water. Because you're telling me that they do. Well, actually, no, that is an answer. So we can dismiss the question because you've provided proof that they do go in the water. Yes. Yes. Why wouldn't they go in to catch a duck, though, if they're going to go in to kill a few fleas? I really don't know that you're a fox expert, Brian. What do you mean you don't know? You're the Fox expert on the program. I'm not an expert. Well, how do you know this? What are your qualifications? I know qualifications. It's just that I was always taught by my grandfather, my father. That's a qualification, Brian. That's probably the most powerful qualification of all. Family. Family heritage handed down through the generations. Knowledge of how foxes kill fleas. Is it true? I'm going to give you a round of applause anyway because we haven't heard any yet. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Absolutely shocking question, very strong answer. 1215, this is LBC. Hello, James. I'm not a fan of great British Bake off, so I watched you on BBC two last night instead. You were great. But my question for mystery is, why are your ears so epically huge? Do your studio headphones have anything to do with it? Regards, James. No, I mean, I noticed that myself, mate. Actually, I thought it was a camera angle. Well, apparently not. I've just got big ears. You know what they say about men with big ears, don't you? Big moths. Denise is in leatherhead. Denise, what would you like to say? Hi, James. Question or answer, Denise. It's a question. Go on. A question is, do animals get jet lag? I know it sounds weird, but thinking about the Olympics and the horses. I knew it. I knew it would be the horses in the. In the Olympics. Do you believe. Do you believe in fate? Yes. Are you currently single? No. What? Are you currently single? No. Oh. Are you happy in your relationship? Yes, I'm completely happy, yes. Oh. I just want to sort of almost a sense of the planets aligning here. Stay where you are, Denise. Chris. Is in Stanford. Chris, question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on, Chris, following on from the Pegasus last week, do animals get jet lag? And the only reason I ask is because my wife, who doesn't actually listen to mystery hour, asked me the same question last week, which I thought was very spooky. I don't know how you can stay with someone who doesn't listen to mystery Al. Would you, would you like to, would you like to meet a lady who not only listens to mystery Al, but also just rang in with exactly the same question as you for exactly the same reason? Hello, Denise. Denise, meet Chris. Hello. Do I need to buy a hat? No, I love it. I knew as soon as I saw them on the board. You both were listening last week and you both thought this is a result of the question about whether or not horses catch planes, which indeed they do. So do they, do horses, do animals in general, horses in particular in this case, get jet lag. I'm going to stop my clumsy matchmaking because it's clearly, it's clearly not going to lead anywhere. Denise. Thank you, Chris. Thank you. 22 minutes after twelve. Just a minute. Bring Chris back quickly. Chris. Chris, why doesn't your wife listen to mystery? I mean, is she a high court judge? Is she flying jumbo jets? I'm doing my best to convert her and she thinks she's above podcasts, to be honest, James, and she thinks she's above a lot of things, but I always take my life in my hands ever so slightly when I do things like that. Because you could quite conceivably and quite reasonably a comeback. Look, James, I don't know how to put this nice. She just really, really doesn't like you. It's 22 minutes after twelve. Do animals get jet lag? What are the arms on pub signs like the joiner's arms or the king's arms? I've already answered that satisfactorily, but the fellow who asked the question was being a little bit difficult, so we've left it out there. And why does Sellotape, why does the paper upon which you are applying sellotape rise up slightly to meet the sellotape? And I now have two phone lines free. Zero. 345-606-0973 hit the numbers now. You will get through okay. Only if you're very quick, though. And I need answers to those questions. So use a phone line for the answers, but use them also for your question. 23 minutes after twelve is the time. Josh is an edgeware. Josh, question or answer question, please go on, Josh. Hello. Before I do, I'm a. I am a podcast. I'm one of the people who listen to the podcast. Enjoy it quite a lot. Thank you very much, Josh. I'm quite pleased to hear that. One thing I noticed, and I took some Asperger's and one thing that comes with that is I'm obsessed with puzzles. Oh, yes. And one thing I've wondered for a long time is when was the first puzzle either created or discovered? Blimey. And what was it? Good grief. Well, by which you mean something that people just did for fun. Because, I mean, everything would be a puzzle, wouldn't it? In a way, getting water from the bottom of a well is a puzzle. But you mean not for a purpose, simply for fun? Yeah, like, just like. Yeah, like a fun puzzle. I don't. I mean, I think the Egyptians, wouldn't you something like that. Or, I mean, I would have thought. But I think it could have been a. I think it could have been slightly earlier. I'm not too sure. Assyrian? I'm not sure. Well, I know you're not sure. I'm not sure either. I'm just worried that there may not be known, it may be lost in the mists of time. But we will find out for you. Josh, I like your question. I also enjoy puzzles. Do you like riddles as well or just puzzles? Yeah, I like riddles. Riddles can't always do it, but I like them. I like riddles. We're doing a lot of riddles at the moment, but they're like jokes. You can never, ever remember them when you want to. My eldest is obsessed with riddles. Josh, thank you ever so much. Take care. 24 minutes after twelve, Tony is in Cyprus. Tony. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Ella. Ella. Polycalachy. Get on with it. So I'm here on holiday with my family. Yes, we're. We're in the beach, or the beach every day. We're in the sea. That waist height. And it was sort of late afternoon, the wind had picked up a little bit, but, you know, nothing too bad. And there was a few waves coming across. And then suddenly with one wave, thousands of fish jumped in an arc. Thousands of the water. Yeah, honestly, James, shut up. Thousands. I'm not scarce. Scarce per the more, Alicia. Thousands. Honestly. Okay, honestly, no joke. All right? No joke. Thousands. And they look like white bait. That's okay. Little ones. Yes. Little ones. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Not big fish. Little white fate. And it only happened on one particular wave forming this arc. And then they must have risen about eight to twelve inches above the surface of the water, climbing. Great to see once. Oh, it was incredible. I mean, I had an underwater camera or waterproof camera in my hand, and I was so in awe of what I was witnessing, I didn't even think to take a picture of it because, you know, it was just spectacular. But obviously, the question remains, why did they do this? What is this behavior? What. What is it that we witnessed? We've only seen it one of all the times we've been here, so maybe we need a marine biologist. No, I like it. I like it. Could it be insects? Could there been a swarm of tiny insects that they spotted and decided to gobble? You're not buying any insects. You're not buying that? I'm not buying that in the slightest. Surprised? I'm not surprised. And they were hitting us against our chest, you know, jumping up pretty high. I was going to say about eight to twelve inches. So they. They seemingly didn't know where they were going because obviously we were in the water and they were hitting us and they were just bouncing off us and then just carrying on. Sounds really exciting. Okay, what was going on? So just one massive arc of thousands of tiny little fish jumping out of the sea. And however long you stay in the sea, however hard you watch, it's only happened once. It's only ever happened once. Love it. When are you back? Saturday. Take it easy. Enjoy the rest of your holiday. Callo taxidy Tony 1227 is the time. Professor Martin is the professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. He calls from Manor park with, I presume, an answer, professor? Yes, I do. The answer to the sellotape question. Oh, yes. What happens is sellotape is two materials which are both insulators. One's got glue on and one's got the tape on. When you pull it apart, you're applying energy and the electrons, the negative charges, are preferentially attracted to one of the surfaces. And the positive charges, the protons are connected, are positive and preferentially attracted to the other surface. So you've got something that's electrically charged. And as you quite rightly say, you've got static electricity created. Well, we put me in an easy position here because the answer is static electricity. You have provided an academic patina that is persuasive and accurate. But I think that. I mean, I think the round of applause is mine. Okay? But it's not friction. It's not created by friction. I never said friction. I thought you said something about rubbing a balloon. Yeah. No, that's also static electricity. Just another way of creating it. You've gone for the two types of insulator protons and electrons theory. I was just pointing out that the reason why a balloon can be stuck on a wall after you've rubbed it on your jumper is also static electricity. That's true. Created differently. Yeah. Okay. I'm having this one, mate. I'm having this one, professor. I'm a little bit thin. I'm a little bit thin at the moment. The cupboard is almost bare, so you've got plenty. I'm keeping that. 112. 29 is the time. 105. Nine three. As Professor Martin vacates that one, you can grab it. The other question I'm pretty sure I got right was the question about the arms on pubs. What does the joiners arms, the king's arms. What does the arms refer to? If you know the answer to that? 034-56-0609 can animals, most notably horses, get jet lag? Zero. 345-606-0973 and then we've got Josh's lovely question about what was the first ever puzzle that humankind. Well, the first known puzzle that humankind formulated just for fun. Not the puzzle of how you're going to feed your children or how you're going to get your horse up a hill. But the puzzle. The puzzles for fun. What was the very first one? And Tony's fish. On holiday in Cyprus, a shoal of thousands of tiny fish leapt gaily from the surface, bouncing off his rippling torso. But it only happened once. What was happening there? Zero. 345-606-0973 it's just coming up to 12:30 and Rupert Bartier has the headlines. Police say the five people who drowned. And on LBC 1232. Right, pay attention. Something special on the way here I am going to do, in the course of the next 28 minutes, a tribute to David Bowie. And you have to listen out for it when you hear it. Is it going to work? Are we going to be able to do this? Is it? Will you be able to find him? Yeah, sorry, just Caroline and I doing a little bit of high level negotiations. I'm going to do. I'm going to do a very subtle David Bowie tribute. So, Bowie fans, when you spot it, cheer. All right, mystery hour is underway. Phone lines are full, but they won't be in a minute. We've done a cellotake question. What do arms mean on pubs in pubs? Names. Pub names. Joiners arms, King's arms, etcetera. That fish story. The fish. I think. Ah, yes. I think we might be getting an answer to that one. What's the first known puzzle that mankind invented just to amuse himself rather than to actually solve something important? Okay. All right. Remember, listen out for the David Bowie tribute, okay? Gary is in Ibiza. Gary. Hello. Hello, mate. Question or answer, Gary, I've got a question for you. James, what are you doing in Ibiza? You're on holiday, obviously. I'm back on holiday, yeah. So many people. It's my wife and I's first year, buddy. Anniversary. Oh, lovely stuff. Enjoy. Yes, thank you, mate. Yeah, it's a question about birthday candles. What's the tradition of birthday candles? Why do you put them on cakes? I should know. We should know. That rung Nobel tycoon bell must be something that we've done before. It's my birthday today and I got a cake. And that's what prompted me to ask you. So you're celebrating your first anniversary, you're on holiday and it's your birthday. Yeah. And we're listening to Mister Al, so. What an embarrassment of riches, listening to Mister Al by the pool. Yeah. Yeah, we actually. I called you last year from Sardinia for our pre. Is it like a pre wedding mini moon? I don't know if you remember calling you, I asked you about why you got seasick on boats. I do remember. You go, free wedding mini moon. I get lovely. Look there. Lovely. How many candles on the birthday, Gary? Uh, 32, I'm afraid. That's right. You're in your prime. You're in your prime. We shall get you. I don't know what. What is the traditional birthday, Gary? There in Ibiza. James next is in. Is in Dereham. So that's from Ibiza to the Norfolk broads. James, question or answer? Question, please. James, mate, I've got a level with you. Go on, then. Your question's rubbish. I've only put. I've only put you on so that I could do that link there. From Ibiza to the Norfolk broads, which obviously was my secret David Bowie tribute. I saw your name on the sky, saw where you were. I saw that Gary was ringing from Ibiza. I got that lyric of Bowie playing in my mind. From Ibiza to the north at broads. Caroline said, you can't let him on. His question is rubbish. And she was probably right. No, it's not rubbish. It's a good question. Is it? Well, I love you, and there's nothing personal about this, but I just thought I'd level with you at the outset that if it wasn't for the fact that you were ringing almost from the Norfolk broads, and I got that a beautiful ib for juxtaposition you probably wouldn't have got on, actually, scratch the probably. Okay, well, all right, let's go. This is where I end up looking stupid, because everyone else is going to love your question. All right. Okay, here we go. Swans. Swine. When I was growing up, my mom told me, don't go near the swans because their wings can flap so hard that they'll break your arm. Yeah. I was like, all right, mum, yeah, I'll stay clear of them swans. Yeah. And I said it to my daughter the other day, but I was like, well, could they actually break someone's arm? Like, if a swan had a go at me today, I don't think it would be out. Break my arm. Can a swan break a human arm? Yeah. Yeah. All right. I've got nowhere to go now. I know what comes off. What's the lyric up from Ibiza to the Norfolk broad? I'm not as old as you. I don't know. It's not as old as Mick David Bowie, man. It's timeless. All right, can a swan break a human on? Did your mum also tell you that if you swallowed your chewing gum, it would stick to your heart and kill you? No. She said it would stay in my stomach for ten years. Ten years? Ten years. Your mum was an early advocate of colonic irrigation. Can a swan break a swan's arm? It's maybe not quite as bad a question, as I was saying. Now we'll find out for you. You'd have to know. We were having this conversation quite recently, I think. Oh, that's it. My mum's. A swan landed on the pond near my mum's and six signets have all gone. And just wondering why the swans hadn't fought off whatever predator it was that apparently got the signets. We will find out. Can a swan break a human arm? We just need one example of it happening to say yes to that. I guess Andy's in Raynham. Andy, question or answer? I think I might have an answer for you, James. Carry on. Let's do it again. Sound a bit more confident. Andy, question or answer? I think I've got an answer. Come on. About the fish coming out of the sea. I believe it's probably just something as easy as the fact that it's a predatory fish chasing them and that's what they do to evade being eaten. Is it? Yes. Simple as that? Yeah. Yeah. That's what they'll do they. Whenever flying fish as well. When you see flying fish, they normally jump out. If there's a predatory fish about, it just gives them a little bit of an edge to sort of evade, because obviously the predatory fish normally doesn't follow them to jump out of the water. It's just the schooly fish that will jump and it gives them that slight. You know. And that would explain why Tony only saw it happen once, because it is quite a rare. Not really. It just happens to be. If you're in the right place. That's what I mean. He was in there, so, I mean, you could never. It wouldn't be. It's a freakish occurrence. It's not something you could ever plan or arrange. I don't know how you'd arrange it, but, I mean, you think that much out on the water. I suppose so, you know, I mean, it does happen a lot, but I think some predatory. I mean, some bait fish won't jump or. Because they might have a different way of trying to get away or they might hide or they might play dead or, you know. But it sounds like a lot of small bait fish and that will jump out the water if there's a. If there's a fish chasing them. I love it. Qualifications. Years and years of diving and being a complete nerd. Loving, loving, loving the water. Yeah, yeah, basically, yeah. Rural Britannia is out of browns tell my mother my dog and clowns. Well, yeah, I've been called a clown. You're brilliant. Round of applause. That's the next line of life on Mars. From my booter to the Norfolk broad. I hope this has amused somebody else, not just me. It's a brilliant little bit of radio engineering. Andy. Another Andy. This one's in phone line free. As I say farewell to that. Andy. Room for questions. I'll remind you the answers in a minute. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you could smuggle a boat. No, I won't do that today. Andy's in slough. Andy, question or answer? It's to do with the coat of arms. It's an answer. Go on, then. Well, you weren't half wrong. They used to make up, like coats of arms for carpenters and coopers and everything, so the joiners arms would be the coat of arms for the guild of carpenters. It was a way to reconnect the pub, like you said. But also if a pub was denoted as the king's arms in the civil war, it was to show your support for the royalists, whereas if it said the king's head. It was to show your support, the parliamentarians, to show that you wanted the king to lose his head. No. Are you serious? No. Where'd you pick that up, then? I'm an absolute history geek and it's just something I've picked up along the way. Really? Yeah. I mean, isn't that like a painting a target on your backside? But it depends on. Depending on what part of the country you were in and whether roundheads and parliamentarians were in your area. So if you were in your area and it was a royalist area and you put the king's head, it meant you'd get business rather than somebody coming in and trashing your pub. It often changed week to week. That was the thing during the civil war. The pubs would change from the king's arms to the king's head in a matter of days. Is that for real? That's an absolutely brilliant bit of information. I love that if the force is rolled in of the opposite side, you quickly jump up and change your sign and then they'd come in a bicep rather than stealing it. Oh, mate. Qualifications? You just love history. Yeah, I'm an absolute history geek. I didn't realize that. I'm seeing somebody about it. It's a problem I've got. No, don't. Don't be soft, mate. This is a peculiarly british condition, not to revere knowledge and education. I know that factor going out of fashion, but not here. I love that. That's a great. I only discovered after moving to Chiswick that there were civil war battles in Chiswick, in Turnham. The battle of Turnham Green and the battle of Brentford were key battles in the civil war. I never studied them at school. But then you've got to think about the tiny scare machines that happen. They will come across each other on the road and you'll have tiny skirmishes where maybe 10, 15, 20 blokes died, but you don't. They never recorded and nobody ever hears about it except peace battles. You hear about. It was fought all over the british countryside, but, yeah, that's what it was. As town changed. Yeah. And you'd probably find it was the same in War of the Roses. They changed the color of the rose depending on where people were. Love it. Horses held. What part? Love it. Love it, love it, love it. Like having a reversible football shot every time we go to Glasgow, just in case. Round of applause for Andy. I love that. 1241 is the time Mike is in Basildon. Question or answer, Mike? Answer, James. Come on, Mike? Jigsaws were first created by cartographers. They used to cut around the boundary of countries so they could fit together as teaching aids. And you think that would be the first puzzle ever? Yes, certainly. As old as maps. Pretty much. It dates back to the mad King. King George III. Oh, I'll go back further than that. And it must have. You spoilt it. And you shouldn't have said that because there must have been puzzles in Egypt, ancient Egypt. They must have had puzzles. Sphinx had a riddle, mate. But the first 1st time someone cut around something, if you see, I'd have given you the round of applause if you hadn't. So if you just said, oh, it's lost in the mists of time. But there's no way that the first puzzle was invented during George III's reign. There were puzzles long before that. I think lost in a mission of time is a cheap answer. I do as well, but it would have got you a round of applause because I'm a cheap date. We're talking 300 years ago. Yeah, I know, but they would have had puzzles in ancient Egypt. They'd had puzzles, but yes, they would. Otherwise you would have seen them inscribed on the side of a pyramid. You did. I mean in a picture, mate. Hieroglyphics are puzzles in a way. Well, they're not, are they? In a way. On the side of a wall. They're not going to work it out. It's a puzzle. We don't have the Rosetta stone. We can't read the hieroglyphics. I'll go. The hieroglyphics are a puzzle. It's a mental puzzle. But there's no way. I really admire your. Your vim and vigor, but there's no way you're going to get a round of applause for this. There's no earthly way. You don't. Well, you do deserve a round of applause, but you blew it by putting a date on it. You haven't asked me what a qualification is. What are your qualifications, Mike? A little kid told me at the weekend. I give him a round of applause. Chris still on the board? Mouth of babes. Rob's in triokey in South Wales. Rob, question or answer? No question. Yeah. Right. Yeah. When we get up to a bath, my kids spend hours. Is this about wrinkly skin? It is, yeah. I'm gonna have to piss you off, mate. We've answered that about 600 times. Are you joking? I'm not joking. I'm really sorry. I sound ungrateful and unwelcoming. Don't I? But. And also, you've brought your children into it. But we must have answered that more times than. I don't know any other question that we've answered loads of times. Why do our hands and toes wrinkle up when we're in the water? It's osmosis, isn't it? I love it. You will stop. 44 bits a bit in that. Sorry. Patrick's in. Awesome. Question or answer, Patrick? It's answer, James. Hello. It's the. It's the swan and the arm breaking. Oh, yeah. Yeah. When I was quite young, I used to live in reading and I remember there was a tale in the newspaper about a guy on a boat on the Thames. He got too near some rushes and stuff on the river. Some swan came bursting out, and not with his wings, but with his beak. Yeah. Broke his. Broke his arm. That doesn't prove that he couldn't have broken an arm with a wing, though. I've got no idea if they can do with a wing. But this was definitely with the beat because I remember reading it in the newspaper that it started jabbing at him. That's quite scary. I've got a problem now. You can help me with it a bit. So this is on sign. Can't call him, but wanted you to know a swan can't break the bones of a human with its wing. It's a myth. Qualification I saw on a wildlife program many years ago. Round of applause to me. Ellie in east London, meanwhile, writes, a swan can break a person's arm. A swan broke my mum's arm some years back by grabbing her arm. And she has suffered with damage ever. But that would be the beak as well, wouldn't it? Probably, yeah. By grabbing. And she describes herself as a shy listener, which is why she isn't going to ring in. I think in laboratory circumstances, a swan's wing probably could break an arm, but the circumstances in which it would happen would be almost impossible to create. No swan, when under threat, ever, goes in wing. First. The beak's going to. It's going to be the beak, mate. I know. I'd use the beak over the wing. So no would be the answer to the original question. We don't believe that a swan's wing can break a human arm. All right, go on. Round of applause, Patrick, feeling generous? No. You're very welcome, mate. It's nearly the weekend. 1245 is the time from the LBC. Making jam is the answer to that question I asked you about 17 hours ago. A lot of complaints coming in. I completely forgot to deliver the punchline. This was what happened on Tuesday when members of Jeremy Corbyn's communications team were desperately trying to get hold of him so that they could put to bed this stupid story of him on the train. But they couldn't get hold of him because he was making jam. It's not a euphemism either. Back to mystery. Our George is in Berkham. So, George, question or answer? Question. Go on. So I work as a brewer for a Carthage brewery in Berkhamstead. The well known thing. Thank you. Thank you. It's a well known thing. You can't bottle beer in clear bottles because the light will affect the flavour of the beer, even for a short period of time, if it sees light. So I'm asking why. Why light can change the flavor of a beer. I understand why it might change the colour. Like, the red wine will turn brown if you leave that in a clear bottle. But I don't understand why it will change the flavor. So that is my question. I like that question. I mean, it's probably the same answer, isn't it? This is a chemical process that involves the changing of the colour. Also invokes a changing of taste in some way, I would have thought. But I'll get you a proper answer, I promise. How long have you been a brewer? I have been a home brewer for a long time. Working as a brewer for about six months. How's it working out? It's great. It's great brew. About 2500 liters of beer a week. Great. What's the company? What's the company called, George? It's called Haresfoot Brewery, based in Berkhamstead. Haresfoot Brewery. It's the big thing, isn't it? 100 years after the last one closed down. So. That's beautiful. That's lovely. I'm learning a lot today. I shall try and get you an answer. It's a bit late on the bit. Where can I get a pint of Haresfoot? I'll look out for it. Oh, pubs all around. Hertfordshire and all that. Buckinghamshire. All right, you're on. I like it. I'm getting quite annoyed, man. I know what you're thinking. 44 years old, you've grown a beard and now you're getting into real ale. Yeah, all right. But it's cool. It's cool being a hipster. Verity is in healing. Verity. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Verity. Well, I was watching the telly this morning. Oh, yeah? Ben shepherd asked exactly the same question about whether the horses get jet lagged or not. To the dressage couple that won gold. Oh, yeah, they was. Well, they're not a couple, but they ride together. What? You know what I mean? No, I thought the horse and. The horse and a human are the couple that win dressage. What did two humans do? There's like. There was like a fella and a lass. A what? A fella and a lass. Yeah. And they both ride different horses. Well, obviously should ride the same horse. That be. That'd be worth watching. Okay. And they got asked, what. What is the. What do the horses get jack like? And they said. They said, yes, they do. And one of the horses ended up with swollen legs as well. A bit like an old lady. Round of applause for Verity. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. A quick bit of information for you. This Sunday night from eight on LBC, you must join Clive ball for the travel hour. As always, Clive and his expert guests will be offering holiday advice and answering your travel questions. Catch up on previous episodes at LBC Dot Co Dot UK, where you can also win a long haul break to your pick of destinations, including Dubai, Hong Kong and New York. It's all thanks to Gatwick Express, who are helping you arrive without the stress. Why does light change food and drink, beer in particular? What is the chemical explanation for that birthday? Why do we put candles on birthday cakes? I love that question. I'm surprised we've never answered it before. We've done the fish, we've done the. Done the animal with jet lag, we've done the arms, we haven't done the puzzle. What's the earliest puzzle? Andy's in Kennington. How many andies have we had on mystery house so far today? Has anyone been counting? I've had a lot of andies, Andy. This one's in Kenley. Question or answer, Andy? In Kenley. I've got an answer for you. Bring it on. It's the oldest puzzle. The oldest puzzle. Go back to the egyptian times. It was the biggest puzzle ever made and it was a pyramid, because when they built the pyramid, they built the tombs inside and built many forced entrances and labyrinth to it. And once it was all completed, all the people that tried to get in it stood back and wondered how they get in it. Hence it was a puzzle. I like that. I'm going to give you a round of applause. It may not be the earliest known example of a puzzle, but it's good enough for me. And it's way, way, way earlier than George III. Although he was called Andy as well, wasn't he? I think so, yeah. He was right. You know, it was the first known jigsaw was a cartographer during the reign of George III who cut up maps to make children's puzzles. But there's no way that was the first puzzle known to man. And just while we're on a kind of. What's it called? An information festival that misses has turned into this week. The sphinx's riddle is part of greek mythology. It's not. Not actually part of egyptian mythology. But your qualifications are what? Interesting history, I suppose. Another nerd called Andy. A nerd called. Another nerd called Andy. That's it. Great stuff. Round of applause. Zero. 345-606-0973 I think we're going to run out of questions, which is a good thing. We just need answers. We've got Stewart's inquiry coming in on the swans wing. Is that right or not? I don't know. Have Al is in Norbury. Havel, question or answer a question, please. A bit late, mate, but I'll do my best. Okay. I think I have an answer for the beer question. That doesn't work like that. You should have done it. I'll give you my question. Yes, go on. What is the origin of the thumbs up sign? In my mind, it's something to do with aircraft. You'd be in a circumstance where people couldn't see, couldn't hear what you were doing. So you put your thumbs up so they knew that everything was all right. So is it a news? You mean it's a new thing that humans do? Well, new. New ish in the terms. Oh, no. Because you had roman emperors doing it, didn't you as well? Yeah. It's very old gladiator, you know. Is he gonna kill him? All is. Maybe that's where it started. Thumbs up you live, thumbs down you dive. Is that where it all starts? That. I'm gonna go for that as the answer? That's the earliest known example of the thumbs up sign. You're gonna earn a round of applause for that. Why not? Thank you, Havel. Would you like one as well? Well, I can give you an unsighting for the beer. Let me check the screen. Do you know what? Should we just break the rules? Have our. You and me? Should we just. Let's try. It might not be convincing to you. Let's just do the show right here. Come on. Let's go. Come on. I think it is because of the yeast. Yeast is used. Is used in making beer and yeast is affected by light. And if you look at the jars that, you know, the product that says you might hate or like begins with M. Marmite. Marmite, yes. They all come in black or very dark jars. And that is because the light affects them, affects the yeast. I think you've done. I think you've done it. So I have a feeling it's the same for the beer because yeast is used in. So it would carry on fermenting or something. If it got in the line, they'd all explode. I couldn't go into the. You know. Yeah, you could. Yeah. I think. I think you've done it. I think you've done it. Excellent. So, I mean. Did I get a round of applause? I did, didn't I? And now you can have one as well. I can have my. Thank you. How about that? Have a four. You've had. I didn't realize that. Otherwise I wouldn't have given it to you. I just broke the rules for you. Have. I thought you were new. I was trying to tempt on boys. Was like an opening offer for a new song. Subscriber. I'll become the exception to the rule. It's 57 two minutes left. So Brian's got a question, but the likelihood of getting answered is pretty slim. Brian, in all the shot, question or answer, I would say it's extremely unlikely. It's a question. And it's something that's bugged me for a number of years, since somebody actually gave me the answer to it about 30 years ago and I forgot it years ago. In the midst of time. Why is it, if you're using a vacuum cleaner, why is it when the tube gets blocked, the motor runs faster? Mate, that is the most boring question I have ever heard in my life. I know, but it's a good one to finish the day on. Plumbing, isn't, mate? Absolutely nothing. The motor runs faster when the tube is blocked. Yeah. If you put your hand over the end of a nose. No, no, no, no. And no again. No. Alan is in. Bushy Alan. Question or answer? Yeah. It's the answer to the thumbs up. No, mate, I've done that. You did it? Yeah. Nailed it. Knocked it out. The pulse. Bye. What can you tell? I'm going away for the weekend in one minute's time, Alan? Yes. So am I. Can you not take the answer? Yeah, but you're gonna be wrong. Whatever you say will be wrong. But anyway, you go ahead and prove it. It's used in scuba diving. Meaning, let's go up and. Water sports were used long before aircraft true. But what came first, scuba diving or gladiatorial combat in ancient Rome? Um, I actually reckon gladiator fighting, but never mind. So, last word. Lawrence in Holloway, 23 seconds. Lawrence, what's it going to be? Is, uh, it's the answer to the swan question. Could the swan break Iran with its wings? It probably could. Qualifications? I've been rescuing for the swan sanctuary for the past 15 years and I've been hit by many a swan. But you've never had an arm broken? You've never heard of anyone having their arm broken? Well, that's because I know how to handle. Let me say. Oh, okay. Yeah, all right, all right. I'm going to give you a round of applause for all your excellent work with swans, but I'm not having the original answer challenge because you need actual evidence of an arm being broken. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again on Tuesday morning from ten. It's taking a long weekend because I've been working so hard. The next voice you'll hear belongs to Sheila for have a nice break. Thank you. Later on from three. A folk festival has banned Morris dancers from blacking up their faces, saying it could cause offence. Some say it has its roots in the arab origins of Morris dancing. This is like mystery hour. What should be honored most tradition or modern norms? And at two, serial killer Peter Sutcliffe, dubbed the Yorkshire Ripper, has been moved from Broadmoor psychiatric hospital to prison. He'd been treated for 30 years for paranoid schizophrenia, but is now deemed cured. Is that possible? And after the news at 157 thousand EU nationals work in our NHS, one in ten hospital doctors is from the EU. To secure staffing levels in the NHS. Should all of these people be.