Mystery hour

Hour with James O'Brien. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Here it is, your weekly opportunity to get an answer to a question that's been puzzling you for the longest time and, well, I guess we never know quite how much of a heads up to give you as to how it works. I'm conscious of new people tuning in all the time, but equally conscious of many of you having heard the spiel, the rubric, the rigmarole, more times than you care to remember. It's fairly straightforward. It's a fairly sort of self explanatory process. Try not to be boring and if you promise, then I do too. Repetition is increasingly hard to avoid, given that we've been doing it for so long and I can't even remember what I had for breakfast, never mind what we covered on mystery hour last year. And that pretty much covers it. I generally don't like question about roads, but the format is you ring in with a question, which you need an answer to. Somebody else hears you ask that question and they ring in with the answer. The only really hard and fast rule is that you're not allowed to look anything up. That would make a mockery, really, of the entire process, wouldn't it, if you were to google it? It's a sort of celebration of knowledge, enlightenment, illumination. I think the best thing to do, probably, is just to crack on. And then, if you're still not entirely clear on how it works, very, very different from the other 14 hours of the week that we spend together, I think that's a fair observation to make. So, a little bit of a trial run. Let's start with Katie, who's in Cambridge. Katie, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on, Katie. In elite sports, I'm thinking mostly along the line of athletics and things, are people who are pacemakers allowed to win the race? Oh, I love that question. I've got a vague inkling that we may have tackled. I mean, they can't be allowed to win the race, otherwise we'd all be able to remember a famous occasion when they had won the race, wouldn't we? Is that just because of kind of. Is that actually a legal thing or is it just frowned upon? You set off. You set off at a cracking old pace and the favourite makes a decision not to go with you. You've got three laps left and you're 200 meters ahead of everybody else and you just sort of think, well, this is the bit where I'm supposed to just slide onto the sidelines, but I reckon I've got. I reckon I've got this one in the back. I'm going to crack on and win it. I love that question. I just. I got a horrible feeling the answer won't be as much fun as the question is, but we shall. Why? Have you been. Have you been watching sport? Oh, yeah, no, I'm a big athletics fan and I was watching some diamond league the other week and just thought, I wonder if they are actually allowed to. So it's the oddest job, isn't it? I don't know how the remuneration or the reward was, but it's the most thankless. I suppose if you're helping someone get a world record, maybe you get a sense of sort of community satisfaction out of it and pride. But like you said, if you're having a great day and you're going for it, it seems a bit frustrating if you have to drop out. So it's more likely that the favorite decides not to go for the record that you set the pace for. They're just going to go for gold. And you realize that. Actually, do you know what? I reckon I'm far enough ahead to take this one all the way to the finish. Right. We shall find out, ideally from a pacemaker. I don't know where the bar will be for a Ray Liotta on this one, but I love that. So the pacemakers, the pace setters, if you prefer that you see, you know, trying to sort of set the pace for the world record attempt or the big record attempt, are they allowed to actually hang up the pace setting duties halfway through the race and make a beeline for the finish? I kind of hope so. Hallie is in Burnham. Did you see your namesake on Twitter last night being brilliant? Hallie, by any chance? No. Have you heard of Halle Berry? Oh, yes, but I spelled it differently. I know you did, but it's pronounced the same. So someone tweeted, like, with no followers at all. Someone said, how does Halle Berry feel about being in almost every rap song ever? And she. And she replied herself saying, I love it, actually. But anyway, we digress. Question or answer, Hallie? It's a question. Carry on. A week ago, I had a weird dream where I was on the moon in a. Flying. In a swimming pool. Oh, yes. Inside a dome, obviously. Of course. Yes. And I was floating, swimming higher up in the water than I would have been if I'd been on a swimming pool on earth. Right. And I've tried for. Tried to work it out and it's just a gravity thing. I think I can't work it out. And I've got physics background. Yeah. I can't work out whether I should have been high or whether I should have been lower in the water, because it was. Well, hang on, what's the point of the dome? Well, so you say you can have a swimming pool and swim inside it. Yeah, but that. I mean, is it. Is there gravity inside the dome? Of course there is. There it. What do you say? Like that, moon gravity. I mean, the gravity on the moon is a six of that on earth. Yes. So it's moon. So it's not. So. But the dome is irrelevant to the gravitational pull then. That's all I'm trying to establish, actually. Go swimming? Yeah. Indoors. So you. Would you. If you jumped in a swimming pool on the moon? Yes. Would you float more or less than you would on earth? Yeah, that's basically it, yes. Okay. I can't figure it out. How did the dream end? I woke up, of course. Oh, yeah, they all. They all end like that. Woke up enough to remember the dream. I just. Bit special anyway. And to work. You try and work out and spend the next week trying to work out what it was all about. Well, I don't want to get your hopes up. I'll do my best. But it's quite a. It's quite an esoteric inquiry, this. 1 may not let itself. Yeah, I do. I love them all the time. I just. What do you do without wither vote? No, exactly that. Well, I can't guarantee satisfaction on this occasion, but I shall do my level best to achieve. Have you got the ability ever? Because I'm getting better at this as I get older to get back into a dream. If I wake up and I'm only half sort of awake and I think I was enjoying that dream. I can actually now sometimes get back into them. I have sometimes. But in this case it wasn't going to be. It was. No, it was water pressure that was getting me up. I see what you mean. There you go. Ah, it's a good job that you weren't too immersed in your dream then. Otherwise. Well, we'll leave it there, shall we? Not be swimming through a warm patch, would you? I don't do that in a swimming pool anyway. No, of course you don't. But it's probably slightly more tempting in a swimming pool than it is in bed. Twelve after twelve is the time, or human life is here. Can you? And indeed, in a sense, interplanetary inquiries as well. 1211 is the time. Sam's in Bavaria Sam, question or answer? Question. Please carry on. Good morning. Hello. If we've been to the moon in 1972, I think it was last time the moon was walked and successfully landed. Terrible phone line. If you could just take. If you could just take me off speaker, I'd be ever so grateful. Okay. Sorry. That's okay. Thank you. Hello. That's. There we go. I can hear it just sounds like you're down a well now, but not on the other side of the street. What would you like to say? Sorry? If the last time we walked on the moon was in 1972 or something like that. Why is it that we've never, ever been able to land and successfully moonwalk or put a man on the moon, a woman on the moon since then with far superior technology? I think the question isn't that we haven't been able to. It's just that we haven't. We've chosen not to. That's the question, is it? No. I mean, if that was the case, we wouldn't have spent billions of exploding rockets trying to launch at various locations. We've just never been able to get off the ground, pun intended, really. I don't want to argue, but I'm pretty sure if we wanted to land on the moon, we could. Well, you know, there's all this talk about landing on Mars, landing on various planets, looking for alien life forms, and yet there is a sort of. I think that the boring answer to your question, I'll leave it on the board, is that we've been there and we've done that. There's too many space programs, I think. Yes, but they're all, as you've just reminded us, they're all doing things that we haven't done yet. Yeah, but they still keep going on about wanting to go back to the moon. That was last week. They don't. Last week by NASA. They want. So NASA announced they want to go back to the moon, but they don't have the technology to do so. Well, then how could they do it in 1972? It's really frustrating me. I'm going around a big circle here. I'm 99.9% certain that they could go to the moon if they wanted to. I find that hard to believe because I think if that was the case, the nature of the way science has kind of gone into reverse, then since Apollo 13, they've forgotten. They've forgotten how they did it the first time, have they? Well, this is. This is the birth of a lot of conspiracy theories around that because obviously, technology from 1972. No, you're not. You're not, are you? You suggesting to me that there weren't moon landings? No, I'm not. I'm just saying that the evidence. Oh, you are. Oh, I don't. Sorry, mate. We should. I apologize for wasting your time. Kevin's in Sunderland. Kevin. Questioner, answer. It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Kevin. So I was wondering, like when a baby is inside the womb, it's surrounded by water and amniotic fluid, to be precise. Yes, and I surmise that's to protect the baby. But I wondered, is there also like another function for that? Like does it provide nutrients or does it form another part of the development other than just to protect the baby? I don't know. I can't. I don't know whether this is a good question or a silly one. Well, I just thought, you know, like evolution, like, is it. Is it literally just water or is that an opportunity for. It's not. No, I think it is, isn't it? I mean, what's. What goes through the umbilical? I'm going to sound really stupid now. That's why I worry about questions like this, because I don't know whether they're going to make me look stupid or not. So does amniotic fluid serve any other purpose than cushioning? Yeah, all right. No, I actually don't know is the short. So that makes it a good mystery. Why are you wondering about this? What are you up to? I don't know. It was just, you know when you just have like, just a random sort of. I wonder if that does more than you know. So. Yeah, it was just a. Just an occurrence. I mean, my gut instinct is. Gut instinct. See what I did there? My gut instinct is. Yeah, of course it does. I kind of. And I was about to say something about the umbilical cord, but I stopped myself in case I sounded silly. I also kind of think the human body's never that simple. There's always like something a bit more happening. Yeah, that's true too. That's true too, isn't it? Okay, you're on. Does the amniotic fluid serve a further purpose than the mere cushioning of the embryo? 16 after twelve is the time on LBC with James O'Brien. 19 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC where we would like to know whether or not if you went swimming on the moon. Yeah, I know, but if you went swimming on the moon, would you be more floaty or less float? Buoyant? Buoyant is the word we want. More buoyant or less buoyant than you would be on Earth in an atmosphere that has about one 6th of the gravity that we have here and our pacemakers allowed to win races. That's one of my favorite questions of all time. In fact, I like it so much, I'm not even going to check whether or not we've done it before. And does amniotic fluid serve any other purpose than cushioning the embryo? And I think that's one where I will. If it doesn't, I'll give you the money myself. But I need, obviously, a slightly more informed answer than that. David is in Heathfield. David, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, David. It's to the pacemaker question. The pacemakers have to register for the event in the same way that any other entrant would. And so, yes, they can go on and win the race. And I think. I'm sure this came up when we were on an athletics club trip away. Oh, yeah. And I'm pretty sure it's happened. I think it was the La marathon, but I couldn't remember when it was. That would do, especially when you're not allowed to look stuff up. So if you can't. I mean, a marathon is going to be the same rules as other athletic disciplines, isn't it? So if you can't be on the pitch, on the track, on the course, unless you're a registered entrant. Exactly right. And if you are a registered entrant, then technically there is nothing to stop you from winning the race. Yeah, and as I say, I'm pretty sure it's happened at the La marathon. All right, I'm going to break with tradition on this one and see whether or not we can find any evidence of that before the end of the program today, because it's such a lovely story. Qualifications? Well, as I say, we were on a club trip to the Mallorca marathon in Parma. That's not a bad one, is it? I bet you go to the Majorca. I bet you didn't go to the. I don't know, the great Yarmouth marathon, did you? No, I've done some pretty ranked ones as well. But I think against Yarmouth, by the way, it's just clearly not major. But, yeah, while we were there, there was the Elliot Kipchoge attempt to go under 2 hours. Yes. And that prompted the question. I mean, that attempt would have been slightly different because it wasn't a race as such. It was literally just for him but yeah, in a standard event then yeah, the pacemakers can do it. What's your best time? 330 at London? No, it was a gravesend in something where you had to run 17 laps of a track, which was pretty dull. But yeah, it was a good one. That's not a bad time, though. Nice one. And we got this as well. It goes with all your winners medals, or at least completers medals. Thank you. David Duncan's in Edinburgh. Duncan, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Evolutionarily speaking, why do we blush? I understand what causes us to blush, but why do we blush? Yeah, I like that. Yeah. I don't know about you, but I did sometimes with some of these questions. I love the thought that we should know the answer to that and the discovery that we actually don't. That's why you know the mysteries of life. Why do we blush? I'm just trying to think possible people turning. Why does turning pink when I get embarrassed or blushing is. Why does pink be advantageous to me? Well, unless it's a side effect of something else. So unless it's a side effect of the adrenaline that is part of the fight or flight response that is advantageous to you. Well, there we go. I think you've answered it. Well, I may have done. I'm not going to go definitive on that one. I was just thinking, if we can't think of a reason why it itself is of evolutionary advantage, then it might be a side effect to something that is more obviously of evolutionary advantage. You're very good at this, James. Well, I have done it before, Duncan. Practice. Make something that we shall try and find out for you. Why do we blush? And also, I'm sure I've blushed without feeling. Have I? Without feeling. Fight or flight? I don't know. David's in Tunbridge Wells. David, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, David. It's to the swimming in a pool on the moon. Basically, you would swim at the same level that you would on earth because the gravity is having the same effect on the water and your body. So you would displace the same volume of water as you do on earth. Start again. Do it again more slowly. It's related to mass, volume and weight. Right. The moon only has a 6th of the gravity of the earth, so the water is going to weigh a 6th, but also you are going to weigh a 6th. So you will displace the same amount of water. You'll be swimming at exactly the same level as you would be on a. Oh, wow. Because all of the bodies for want of a better word, because we're actually talking about a body. But all bodies will be subject to the same level of gravity. Yep. Same gravitational pull. I think Halle and. I don't know, but I think Halle might be feeling a bit silly now. I mean, given that she's a physicist, she will now be sitting at home kicking herself. I suspect you would have thought that would have been in the equations that I learnt in physics. I'm sure it was, and that's what she'll be. Because somehow I think the mention of the moon gave it a. We forgot what we were talking. Do you see what I mean? As if the moon would give it a slightly different gravity. Exactly. But it's the same gravity. Doesn't apply according to what you are, it applies according to where you are. Exactly. Oh, I love that. Qualifications. I'm a civil engineer working in geotechnical engineering. So we deal with a lot of buoyancy issues and weights of different soils and film materials, expecting foundations. That'll do. I mean, it's not really fair on you, is it? To get a Ray Liotta on this one, I think you'd have to have built a swimming pool on the moon. Yeah, I've never done that, but never on the moon. It's 1225 Barry's in Croydon. Question or answer, Barry? It's an answer, James, carry on, mate, to the pacemaking question. And the answer is, it has happened. And it happened to american pacemaker called Tom Byers, I think it was at the Bisnick games in 1981. And sometimes what happens in these races, it was 1500 meters race, by the way, middle distance. And sometimes what happens is sometimes the top guys think, well, you know what I don't fancy, guy. I don't fancy sticking behind the pace, but we just gotta hang back a bit. And buyers thought this, I'm feeling good. It was on the last lap. He said, we go, I'm first. It's all right, I'll apologize on your behalf, but that's not the kind of. Honestly, just say cheeky beggars. These cheeky beggars. Cheeky beggars. Yeah. Anyway, Tom was obviously feeling good and he just. And he just went through it. What was his name? Tom. Tom Byers. He was a long haired, curly headed american, and he just went through it. And by the time the top guys thought he said, he's not actually going to stop, is he? They went. They couldn't count him up again, but I couldn't catch him in time. Has it been made into a film? I'm going to make a film of this. I don't know. It may have been a film. I don't know. What year was it? About 81. At the Bislit Games. Bisli? Yeah. In Oslo. Nowadays we call the Diamond League. Well, it's not a steward's inquiry, it's a clarification, really, because the other fellow was right, but he couldn't remember the example. He thought it might have been in LA. But you've got it in the. Yeah, yeah. And that's when it happened. And I think it has happened once or twice, but that was the most famous occasion that I came here and I've been following athletics since the days of living in ball at the end of the sixties. Well, I was about to ask what your qualifications are and the answer is, clearly massive athletics fan. Absolutely. James, have you got an all time favourite? Have you got. It is tonight, isn't it? Have you got an all time favourite athlete? Oh, there's so many journeys, but currently I'm fading. And Ashley Smith. Yeah. Great sprinter. I was thinking more of a goal tonight. Yes, I know she is. Well, I didn't know that, but I know she's a great prospect in the 200. Who is our greatest of all time, then? Probably some people like Daley Thompson, who won. I'm so glad you said Daley Thompson, Barry. I'm so glad, because for me, Daley Thompson, I don't want to go into too much detail, but quite a lot of my childhood heroes have turned out to have feet of clay. Talking about Peter Shilton earlier, it's not exactly. And of course, Morrissey and Ian Brown and various other artistes, but Daley Thompson. Oh, my days. What a. What an absolute. I mean, just unbelievable. And, you know, James, I could do something that he couldn't do. What's that? That was touch my toes. Why couldn't he touch his toes? He couldn't even do that. Why not? I don't know. Maybe he wasn't flexible enough or something, but he was an absolute star. He certainly was. And you've got you a round of applause. Thank you. And a shout out to all listeners of a certain age who are now thinking about the blisters they got on their fingers after furiously doing this on their ZX spectrums. Jump, jump. Blank looks all round in the studio, except from Alex Keith. You do not remember daily Thompson's decathlon. Laura's in Bishop Storford. Laura, question or answer? Answer, please, to the amniotic, amniotic fluid question. Yes. Quite an important function in the development of a baby's internal organs. So a baby swallows the amniotic fluid, it passes through the stomach and the kidneys and is urinated out. So amniotic fluid is actually baby urine and it is a homeostatic process, so it should be constant swallowing, going through the system and urinating out. And that continues throughout the pregnancy. And if there's too little amniotic fluid or too much, it's a potential indication of a problem. And that's how I know the answer, because we had a problem in our pregnancy where I had too much. And it can be an indication of one thing called gestational diabetes. So during diabetes, people urinate too much, so hence too much amniotic fluid. In my case, they thought it was that my son had two stomachs, but in the end, they didn't find a cause for it. But it is something that is measured regularly throughout the pregnancy. There you go. And also, I guess it's a sort of. Well, I don't need to go on top of that. You've given us the answer. There might be other things it does as well. But you've answered the question. It definitely does one of things. Yeah, exactly. Does do something other than cushion the baby. There we go. Round of applause for Laura. Thank you so much. Lovely answer. Great one. We're only halfway through mystery hours already shaping up to be vintage. The number you need if you want to join in is the same as it is if you want to join in on any other day. Here's Tim Humphrey with the headlines. 1233 is the time you're listening to. Well, you know the rest. And the number you need is 0345 and is in. Milne. Gavi Milne. Guy to pronounce it correctly in Scotland. Question or answer, Anne? Question? Carry on. It's an evolution type question. I have a laurel bush outside my kitchen window. You realize this is mystery hour, not gardener's question time on the other side. You do know that, Sam, it's all gone a bit gardener's question. And I noticed insects were going underneath new leaf shoots, where the shoot, the leaf meets the branch, and wondered what that was all about. And apparently there's some kind of gland, I don't know what you call it, where nectar comes out. And I wondered what's in it for the plant, because normally bees and insects would be pollinating the plants. Well, yeah, but think women. Green. What's in it for a plant that's got green? Fly normally, though. Plant. Yeah, but I'm pointing out that sometimes insects are parasites, they're not they're not in a symbiotic relationship, helping the pollination process of the plant. It sounds to me. Could the panel recommend some, some creepers for my south facing patio? It sounds to me as if you've got. You're describing a relationship which is of no benefit whatsoever to the host plant and is entirely to the benefit of the insect. So why, why waste the energy producing the nectar? Well, because they're not. Because it's not. Because it's not all gonna get guzzled, but they, you know. Well, I don't. I mean, I don't understand the questions, which makes it probably an error for me to try to answer it because it wasn't a minute ago it was, it wasn't nectar, it was water. It might be naturally occurring. So you. So to be, to be clear, there's a laurel bush in Milgai, in Scotland. Yes. And it attracts insects before the flowers, before flowering. But why bother doing both? That's a waste of energy for the plant. Surely, if evolution is working, you use the minimum amount of energy to produce benefit for yourself. Sounds like if you were the plant. Yes, no, I get that. I just. I'm trying to establish the parameters of the question. So basically, why is the plant doing it? I know what you've said. I'm just trying to get the bits that you understand and I don't. Out in the open. So I've got a clearer idea on what's going on. So these insects visit the plant before the plant has flowered. That's why you're confident it's got nothing to do with pollination. Is that correct? They seem to visit whether it's flowering or not. The one outside our window doesn't flower every year. Right. So the only thing I could think of was that the plant does it to make sure the insects keep coming back. Well, that's what I was about to suggest. Right. That's the only thing I could think of. I think you've applied Occam's razor and you've come up with the correct answer. I mean, the plant needs to attract insects. And if the price it pays for attracting insects when it needs the insects is attracting insects when it doesn't need the insects, then evolutionarily speaking, that is a price worth pay. So why don't all plants do that? Because they've evolved differently. Okay. Okay. What was that quizzical noise for? You answer it again, then. Why do you think? Well, that's why I'm asking the question. They're different. I mean, we've all evolved differently. That's why you don't have a trunk. That should be useful sometimes, mind. It would be incredibly useful on occasions, actually. But it is. But I think, you know, different environment, different evolutions, different steps. I'm going to give you a round of applause for answering your own question. Which doesn't happen very often. No, but it's been an education. But obviously, the door is open, or at least a jar, for. For a clarification. Or indeed a challenge. I'd be fascinated to find out from somebody. Or a confirmation. Yes, from a botanist. If a botanist can confirm what you've said, that would be even better. But in the meantime, please accept this with my regards. Thank you. And thanks for your show. You're very welcome. Thank you for listening. Chris is annealing Chris. Question or answer? Good afternoon, James. Question. Please carry on, Chris. Okay. It's to do with bubbles. As in the bubbles that kids play with. Oh, yes. So, obviously, when you blow bubbles, you get. Sometimes you get a really nice, good sized one. I just wondered, in the right circumstances, could you freeze a bubble? I wouldn't have thought so. Because the air inside it would expand. Okay. Even though the outside is made from water. So that would freeze, wouldn't it? Yeah, but the air inside would expand, and that would pop the bubble before it could freeze. Why would the air inside expand? Because it always does. When you freeze stuff, it expands, doesn't it? Okay, maybe it doesn't. I'm just thinking of water. Maybe air doesn't. You know, water does. Yeah, yeah, I get that. There's water in the air. So the water in the air would expand as it got colder. But wouldn't the bubble expand, too, to accommodate that? Because bubbles get bigger and bigger, don't they? Because, you know, a bubble, you can blow and blow, and sometimes you can get quite big ones. That's very true. So, in theory, you know, if you had, like, one of those blast tillers that those posh chefs use. Where you could, like, freeze it really quickly. Yeah. Would you be able to freeze it? I. I mean, I like this question more as it goes on, because my instincts are. No, but then you're talking about theoretical physics, I think, rather than. Yes, a personal experiment that we do in our back garden. So, theoretically, because it'd be almost impossible to get the laboratory conditions correct, which is. But if it is about what's inside the bubble expanding, then I think we do, then I am right. If I'm not okay, then I'm not okay. Yeah. So could you freeze? Can you freeze a bubble? I mean, ideally, practically rather than theoretically, but we'll take theoretically in the absence of a practically, please. That'd be fantastic. No, thank you. Chris. Blushing and bubbles are the only ones I've got left on the list. Unless I made a horrible mess of Anne's question about evolution and Laurel. Was it a Laurel bush? I think it was a Laurel bush. Julia is in Edinburgh. Julia, question or answer? Hi, I have a question. Carry on. I was wondering, why is it easier to remember lyrics to a song than it is just to remember the words of a poem? For example. Are you sure it is? Oh, definitely. Well, because I'm thinking. I mean, the obvious answer would be a tune, but what you need to do is, because I think a tumty tum ty tum poem is very easy to remember for the same reason that a lyric is very easy to is a boy stood on the burning deck picking his nose like Maddie to roll them into little balls and flick them at his dad. So there's almost a tune to that when it's a tum ty tum scansion or Ross. Yes, I accept that. But I have to say, sometimes you sort of will quote a poem on the radio, which I very much enjoy, and I'll look it up afterwards and I'll think, oh, I want to remember that. Thank you. I really, really. But they're very rarely tum tum poems. Are they closed like confessionals they thread loud noons of cities giving back none the glances they absorb something, something arms on a plaque light, glossy grey arms on a plaque they come to rest at any curb all streets in time are visited I think Larkin I've been quoting more recently than anyone else, and his poems are almost impossible to memorize because although I think each one of those lines has 13 syllables in it and there's a form of rhyme, it's not what you'd call tumty tumty tumty tum. No, absolutely. It's something that I find it incredibly easy to remember, that I wrote to music and I really, really cannot remember poetry. And I just. I didn't know if it was something like when you're revising for an exam, they tell you to sort of do it. Well, have you tried putting poems to a tune? Have you tried adding. Because. What about Jerusalem? Yes, I. Yeah. And so if Jerusalem were just written down and I was trying to remember just off a page, there would be no way. But because it's put to a tune, I know the lyrics well, we've just answered the question. Well, but I wondered whether it was something going on in the brain that like somehow we respond to music differently or whether it's just you kind of take it in a different way. Wondering how much of Jerusalem I can remember off the top of my head after showing off so pathetically with a bit of larkin. I'm also trying to remember whether I know a poem that is tumty, tumpty tum. There's a bit of Blake. I wander through each chartered town near where the chartered tempsters flow and mark on every fate I wonder through each chartered street I wander through each chartered street near where the chartered tempsters flow and mark on every face I meet marks of wheat, marks of woe. So if I do it like that, maybe you'd find it easier to remember. Maybe. Maybe. Okay, maybe it is just a rhythm thing. I think it probably is rhythm tuned. Something like. I mean, learning blank verse is almost flipping impossible. Learning a poem. There's that wonderful Stevie Smith poem. Croft sits aloft in the loft. He is soft. Poor Croft. I think that was very easy to remember because it's so weird. But I love that. Why is it easier to remember lyrics, song lyrics than poems? Zero 345-606-0973 thank you, Julia. Andy's in Liverpool. Andy. Question or answer? Right. You know if the earth blew up? Yeah, of course I do, yeah. What do you think? I understand. Well, yeah. So the earth blows up and there's things in on the earth that don't burn. Like I can only think of like my bird bath or like boss to Queen Victoria and EastEnders. Just how hot do you think it's going to be if the earth blows up? Mate, just because you can't set fire to it with a bit lighter doesn't mean it's not going to burn in an interplanetary conflagration. Well, that's part of the question. Well, what? So are they floating in space forever? These things that don't burn? But they do burn. How do you know? Everything burns if you get temperature high enough. And if the temperature is high enough to explode the entire earth, it's high enough to burn your bloody birdbath, man. You've just said bloody. And you told that man off. The fuck. I know, but you've pushed me to the brink of my own natural self policing. Censorship, swearing. So I'm just saying someone's driving through. Starch me up in the starch. You can't miss Jared to say it's hot enough for the world to explode, but my bird bath would survive. Survive? Yeah. Someone's driving through space. Are they going to drive past it? Is it just knocking around in space? Right. The answer is no. Round of applause for me. Thank you. You're welcome. Mark's in Morven. Mark. Question or answer? Hi, James. How you doing? I'm pretty good, actually. Lovely part of the world where you are. Hey? Yeah. Thrashing me. It's a nice day as well. I got lost on the Morven hills once, Mark. Oh, really? Yeah. I'll tell you the story. I'll tell you the story another time. It's all going a bit Alan Partridge. I got horribly lost, actually. I was getting quite scared by the time they found me. Anyway, carry on. Excellent question, then, James, please. Yes. Why don't birds get electrocuted when they land on electric wires? Because they're not earthed. No, but if I fell out the sky and I hit it, I'd blow up. Would you? Yeah. How do you know? Just because you see situations where, for example, if you've got the lads who are in the cables and on the little carts when they're going across the cable. Yeah. They obviously have to be earthed out, right? Because the cases, even if they were just hanging there, they would still need to be earthed, would they? So, yes. Yeah. So basically that means if they weren't earth, they would get electrocuted. But if a bird lands on it, it doesn't. Maybe birds feet are made of really interesting stuff. I thought that. I thought maybe it's a moisture thing, but what about its rainy. They've got. Ah, okay. Oh, go on. There's no circuit. So. So it's not quite. I mean, technically, I think I might have been wrong when I said you're not earthed, but you need. You need a circuit for the electricity to go through you. And because a bird lands on a wire with both feet, there's no circuit. But wouldn't that be if he did land, his left foot would then make the circuit to his right foot? Well, I suspect evolution is playing quite a large part in this week's mystery. I suspect that birds very quickly evolved to land with both feet hitting the wire at exactly the same time. That would be impressive. Well, not really. Not if your life depended on it. Yeah. So. So I saw a heron. Oh, don't talk to me about herons. Oh, sorry. Oh, mate. You never guess what happened to me. No. Do you know what happened yesterday? I'm gonna get all upset about this. I saw a heron, I think. Well, I saw heron take a duckling, right. And the mum went nuts and got the duckling out of the heron. The heron dropped the duckling and flew away. All the other ducklings were then left as the duck chased the heron and another bloody. I've got to stop swearing. Another heron turned up and I couldn't. I couldn't bear to watch. I went home because I thought that other heron, one heron is being attacked by the mother duck, who has now abandoned all of her ducklings to chase off one heron. And the other heron is going to come in and eat all the ducklings. That's terribly unlucky. It was even worse because the duckling that escaped, I think. I think that the duckling. I think the heron had broken the top. I mean, they're so small at that age as well. They're smaller than, you know, a clenched fist. I think that the duckling that had escaped had been injured because it kept rolling over onto its side and then writing itself in the water. And I'm not. Don't think ill of me, Mark. I threw it. I threw a twig. I threw a twig at the heron to try and get it to go away. Sorry to bring that up. Yeah. I wish you'd just gone with a gull or something. Yeah, that I should have done. Now, philosophy. And now the pond. The pond. It had so many chicks in it. There was some moorhen chicks, there's some ducklings. No goslings. Because oddly, the Canada geese steer clear of that particular pond, I think because the river's so near. I daren't go back. I dare go back because I usually keep a rough tally, particularly on signets. Mark. I like to keep an eye on something. So, you know, if they start off with five and then they're down to three, you think that's not a bad result, really, in the nature being red in tooth and claw. But the way these herons were behaving, I don't think there's going to be a. I don't think there's going to be a chick left in that pond by tea time tonight. Sorry, mate. Oh, no, it's all right. Anyway, I'll try and get you an answer to your question. Coming. So, Brian, 1252 is the time. Blushing? Why do we blush? Is there an evolutionary explanation for it? Maybe help out with the question about insects and laurels, bubbles, can we freeze them? A couple of other things, but we're doing pretty well this week. Melvin is in Labbrook Grove. Melvin, question or answer? Answer to the rhymes and words. Carry on. So I'm a poet. And a rapper somewhat. And I've actually studied this for quite a bit. As to rhyming structures and why it's easier to remember words. And quite simply, when you're having to remember the structure or the layout of words as well as the words at the same time, our brains can't process it as fast. So if you've got the structure laid out, you know the rhyming pattern, or you know which lines rev two and four, it's much easier for your brain to process the remaining information in time for you to recall it. At the moment, you need to actually say it. And there's a brilliant example of this that we probably should have thought of when we were talking to Julia. Can you. Can you spot what it is? No. Well, it's the Alphabet, isn't it? Oh, yeah. And also on top of that is emotive. So because we've actually done something physical, there's a sound that actually kind of gives us the cue as well of what's coming next. So that's. I mean, that's quite simply why one of my best. Oh, not my best, one of my favorite poems is the Raven. And even though that's got a structure, it's so long and so complex that actually, it's quite difficult to remember it word for word. So it's just. It's just too long. But, um. Yeah, if there's music, it's always easier because that it creates a significant and unique enough pattern for you to remember what's coming next. That's. Of course it's. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, I love that. So, in fact, if you were struggling to learn a poem, then setting it to some sort of music would be a good way of doing it. That's exactly why I started putting my poems to music, because I couldn't perform them without it. Nice one. I wonder whether Hubert Parry was just trying to learn Jerusalem and he ended up writing one of the most famous hymns of all time. Yeah, quite possible. It could be, couldn't it? I like that. I've got a great tune here. Hang on, let's try and learn that one. Right. Round of applause for Melvin qualifications. He's a poet and that is the point, I guess, why? Maybe it's easier to remember raps than it is to remember poems, even though technically they're the same thing. Artemis is in Glastonbury. Artemis. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The answer for canned bubbles. Freeze. Oh, yes. I haven't been able to test that out because it's never been cold enough. But I saw on a video that I think it was in, like, Russia or Alaska. When it's really cold. Yes. But if you blow a bubble when it's cold enough, it will very slowly freeze into, like, really thin ice. I think I might have seen that as well, actually. I mean, there are videos on there of things freezing. Like, you pour something out of a bottle and it freezes before it even hits the ground. So if you blew. I mean, it would have to freeze almost. Yeah, if it was cold enough. I'm gonna go. Your qualifications are that you have been watching videos on the Internet. Yeah, yeah. I mean, that's not really magnificent as far as qualifications go, but on this occasion, I think it may have done the job. Artemis. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm gonna give you a round of applause. Yay. Was that. Stop that. Stop. Was that a sarcastic yay? No, it wasn't, actually. Could you do it again with a little bit more oomph, please? Yay. There we go. Because she can have a round of applause. Honestly, there's one thing I won't tolerate on my own program. It's sarcastic. Yeas, Artemis. Have a lovely day. Well played. Luke's in Kingston. Luke, question or answer? Oh, hey, I've got a question and answer. No, you haven't. You've got whatever you cleared with the producer. Sorry to sound so brusque. Okay, well, I was going to talk about the bubble. Your previous caller answered. Sorry, I'm a refrigeration apprentice. Oh, yes. And one of your callers was talking about the air pressure. Or maybe you were saying about the air expanding and the bubble popping. Well, basically, the pressure would drop at low temperatures because it's such a thin layer of moisture, it would have no problem freezing. And like your previous school, I said, there's plenty of videos out there. Bubbles, freezer. I've been a bit thick. Thought I was being clever. It's often what happens when I veer into areas of science. I end up embarrassing myself. And thankfully, there are thousands and thousands of people just waiting for the opportunity to point it out live on national radio. Terry's in Bournemouth. Terry, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on. Terry, you know your bird on the wire? Yes, I do. I don't know that song. Leonard Cohen, is it? Well, I'm gonna have to be. You probably do know that song, Terry. You just saw no resemblance whatsoever between my rendition of it and the actual recorded reality. Go on. Possibly I'll book you in for vocal coaching then. Please. Basically, if a bird is sitting on a high voltage wire, as long as it doesn't connect to the ground or the wire next to it, there is no circuit. So even though it might have two legs on the wire, there is no electrical circuit between those feet. If you were able to glide down on a parachute very slowly and land on a high voltage wire, as long as the parachute was ejected and didn't touch any of those other wires or earth, you also could stand on that wire without any fear of electrocution. There you go. I mean, don't do anything like that. No, no, don't do it. Nearly. It's nearly sheila time. I relax a bit. At 1250, I take my foot off the pedal. My usual laser like focus upon every syllable being uttered on the program begins to slip slightly. So do not, whatever you do, try and float down gently on a parachute onto an electrical wire. But technically speaking, you could. Yeah, technically. It's a little bit like we had an analogy a little while back about electric vehicles and I came up with the analogy of the water tank above and the amount of current that flows. Well, imagine in this case you have no pipe from the water tank. Got it? To the ground. It's the same principle. You can't go anywhere. Exactly. Qualifications, I know, but remind a qualified electrician and I used to work in an around 25,000 volts on the railway. There you go. Round of applause for Terry. Thank you. No, thank you. Great week. Did we get everything? We knock everything off the board. Blushing. We haven't got blushing, have we? Maybe a couple of others. Anyway, nobody's perfect. Except. No, I'm alright. I blushed the other day. Did you? For the first time in ages. Why did not. I mean, I don't need to. It's fine. It happened live on air and I revealed that I was blushing because I began the program very confidently. Lots of energy, talking about the wrong story and the wrong guests. Fantastic. It was as though I didn't just walked in the room and it was a proper blush. It was a proper blush. But was there adrenaline involved? Because I was wondering whether the blush is a side effect of the fight or flight adrenaline. So when you're in that situation, it felt very much like red faced embarrassment. Just red faced, straight up red faced embarrassment. Well, you live in line. You do. Sheila Fergus is here. Yeah, I'll try and get it right today. Thanks, James. At three, a tribunal judge has ruled that believing in the reality of biological sex is, after all, worthy of respect in a democratic society. So how do we accommodate women's rights? Enshrined already in law and trans rights in the ethical soup that is biology, sex and gender. That's at three. At two, if you're not furious about the Ofsted report detailing ingrained and pervasive sexual harassment of children by children in our schools, then you're not paying attention. We're going to talk about that from too. And straight up after the news, the health secretary, Matt Hancock, is defending his actions during the pandemic. What charges would you lay against him on your radio on global player and play LBC?