How do they decide where to put bus stops?

Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve this. Actually, it's. I mean, usually it sticks out like a sore thumb in the schedule, but quite a lot of our Brexit conversations have had a flavor of mystery hour about them lately. And nobody knows. I don't know. You don't know? He doesn't know. Anyone pretending to know is a liar. Holy moly. I will, however, remember to say good morning. No, got that wrong. Let's start again. Good afternoon to Kofi, who drove me to work this morning and is a big fan of mystery hour. I promised I'd say hello, so. Hello, Kofi. Right. Four phone lines currently empty. Which is quite a good sign because it means some people have already rung in and been politely invited to move along because their question was too boring or repetitive. Although Sam and Beth were, I hope, far too polite to be explicit about that. A diplomatic explanation that your question is too boring. One day I'm going to go into the room next door and listen to how they do it. But it means that if you hit the numbers now, you've got a. If you're very, very quick, you've got a middling chance of actually getting through to the studio. Gosh. If you hear me say the number, it means there are phone lines free. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you don't hear me say the number, it means at the moment, it means there aren't phone lines free. But as a general rule, if you don't hear me say the number, it means I'm happy talking to the same seven or eight people every day for the rest of my career. Don't be boring. Don't be repetitive. Anything else? If you don't know what this. Wait and see. Don't ask me motoring questions. They generally get filed under boring. But the last time that happened turned out I was wrong. I had to have a small slither of humble pie. If you get a. If you hear a question to which you know the answer, ring in and tell me the answer. I will ask you what your qualifications are. You will reply by telling me how you know the answer. You don't have to have a PhD in the relevant subject. You might just have seen it on the telly last night, or you were helping yourself daughter with her homework last week and it popped up. Do you see what I mean? It's simply a way of establishing your good faith rather than actually looking for any academic rationale. I think that's it. If you are astonishingly well qualified, it's almost unbelievable how on the money your qualifications are to answer the question that's being asked. If, for example, to continue with my Brexit analogy, we were talking about toasters and you had actually invented the toaster, then you would get what we call a ray LTA. And a ray LDA is the shiniest accolade available to radio listeners anywhere. Now, you might be thinking to yourself, well, hang on a minute. I was listening to Chris Moyes the other day. He gave away a car. I don't think he did give away a car. It was a figure of speech. So you might be thinking to yourself, there are much bigger accolades available on british radio. I was listening to Ronan Kemp the other morning, and he gave away a holiday. No, no, no, no. Because cars perish. They get scrapped, they run out of road. Holidays come to an end. A ray Liotta is forever. No one can ever take that away from you. If you don't know what I'm talking about, you better hope that somebody who rings in with an answer to a question that hasn't yet been heard is astonishingly well qualified to provide that answer to that question that hasn't yet been asked. Are you still with me at the back? Really? Let's crack on. Lucy is in Bratislava. Of course. Question or answer, Lucy? Question, please carry on. Why do women faint more than men? Do they? Well, I was liable today, and I was really hungry, and I was like, I'm so hungry, I actually might pass out. Boys don't do that, do they? Not as a rule. I mean, they do faint, but I'm just trying to think of the last three or four instances of fainting that I've been familiar with, and they were all involving women, actually. So why do women faint more than men? Well, are you more likely to have gone without food, or is that a stupid answer? Well, I had lunch. You just felt all weak and wobbly. What are you doing in Bratislava, Lucy? Honestly, the flights were really cheap, and we thought we better get it in. So you just gone for a little holiday in Bratislava? But, yeah, just for the weekend. I love it. You're not sufficiently embedded in the holiday mood that you could do without mystery hour. I like that. Well, normally, you can't ring in because you're working or you're, like, in lectures and stuff. So you thought you'd take advantage of your holiday to bring mystery. I love it. And I will try and get you an answer. Why do women faint more than men? No, you're on. I mean, I know that there is. There are a couple of medical conditions involving fainting, where fainting is a symptom of the medical condition that are exclusive to women, but I don't know whether the same is true of some other medical conditions that involve fainting being exclusive to men. Hit the numbers now. You will get through. You can grab the. You can grab the line that Lucy's just vacated. Steve's in Southgate. Come on, then. Chuckles yeah. You invented the toaster. I mean, there's been a lot of talk about such an oath. This is a serious academic exercise in illumination, enlightenment and education, mate. It's not opportunity for you to ring in and start heckling from the back row. What do you mean by toaster? Well, yeah, you put. You know, you put your bread into. Yeah, but toasting, no, I mean, it'd be impossible to work out who invented toasting. Someone just happened to be holding a piece of bread near a fire. But the actual machine. You mean the machine with the first electric toaster? Who invented the electric toaster? Yeah, I quite like that, actually. And remember, you're not allowed to look stuff up people who are new to mystery hour. No, I know you haven't, you fool. You phoned in with a question. What would you have looked up? But other people aren't allowed to look up? Who invented the toaster? You either know it or you don't know it. And if you know it, you can come on air. And if it's you, which is frankly unlikely, you'll get a ray Liotta. Steve, you're on. Who invented the electric toaster? Why do women faint more than men? You get the flavor. Now, questions can be silly or serious or somewhere in between. Deborah is in Swanscomb. Deborah, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Deborah. How do they decide how far apart to put bus stops? And is each bus stop the same length of, like, meters? Yards? You can answer the second bit for yourself, can't you? No. When were you last on a bus? Well, I don't really go on buses. Ooh la dee. I about to go, ooh la dee da. And you're about to say, no, James, there have been cuts where I am and there's only one bus service a week. I go everywhere by horse and cartoon. No, there's lots of buses and bus stops around here. Just not for the likes of you, eh? No. I have a car. Misses bouquet. Well, I travel by bus a lot, actually, for what it's worth. And there's no way that the stops are equidistant. But that's not, that's only the second bit of your question. It's a bit. I mean, it's a massive mathematical equation now, you come to think of it, because more than what? You might not know this, Deborah, but buses of different numbers stop at the same bus stops. So, for example, I often find myself at a bus stop where a 272 and e three and a 260 all congregate, but they all go off in different directions. Although, as you know, the 272 and the e three replicate quite a lot of each other's routes. One is usually a double decker and one is usually a single deck. But if you were to get all the buses in a town and do the routes without any bus stops and then try to work out where the bus stops go, that would be actually. Don't laugh. That would be really interesting. Yeah. But I still can't work out how they work out. Well, that's what we're going to find out. Yeah. It's not the logistics, even, it's the space in between. That's what logistics means. Yeah. Yeah. There's the space in between. So what I would do it like this, I'd get the roots sorted first. Have a map of all the routes with different colored pens. Right? Yeah. And then I'd start trying to plot my stops and I'd move a couple and I'd use pins to start with, because then you're not committed to that location. So I'd have colored pins for my stops. And then when I'd. I'll just ask the question there. Brucella. Yeah. Because there's so many ways you could try and work this out. Gazillions. Gazillion. I actually, with my silly brain, thought that maybe they do it like, where they stop near shops or houses, but you go down a country lane and you might see two bus stops down there, but no houses in sight. So it wasn't, you know, that theory went out the window. That's very true. If you, if you, if you take the road from from King's Lynn to Fakenham, for example, as I frequently do, then the bus stops are, I mean, a good, good half a mile walk from where anybody lives, and quite often more than half a mile. Well, because it's better having it there than not having it there. Even if you live a mile away from the bus stop, you're still 20 miles away from King's Lynn. Deborah. Oh. So it could actually take you an hour sort of nearer to Kingsley, then. Yes. Obviously, you'd rather have a bus stop a mile from your front door than no bus stop at all. Well, there is that. If you didn't have a fancy car like Deborah does. I do do buses now and then, yeah. I like this question. I'm just hoping its answer is as interesting as we've set it up to be. Deborah. Well, you've made it sound more interesting than I did. That's why they pay me the big bucks. I know. Have a great day. It's 1212. Martin is in Epping. Question or answer, Martin. Good afternoon. It's a question my young son plays rugby, and he was asking me, why is the gumshield only covering the top teeth, not the bottom teeth? Because if you want to hit the bottom teeth, you've got to go through the top teeth. Martin, if the ball hits you in the. In the mouth, you'll be all right. It's not really to protect you from balls. Yeah. It's to protect you from other rugby players. Just close your eyes. Now, you're going to be able to talk to me, all right? Mm hmm. Now try and punch yourself in the lower teeth with the knuckles. Yeah, but come off. It's like a surgical operation. The bottom line is, if you've got a big guard on the top of your teeth, it's going to be doing a job for the whole of your goblin. But he also has to wear it for. Quite pedantic, your son, isn't he? Well, he's only eight. He's a bit of a hair splitter. Or is this you that's trying to find holes in my brilliant answers? As opposed to your imagined responses from your eight year old son? If you cover the top and the bottom, you'd look ridiculous and you wouldn't be able to run anywhere or speak. So you're faced with a choice between the top and the bottom. And because most of us have an overbite, most of us have, the front of our teeth is ahead of the bottom of our jaw. You put a guard on the. On the top teeth and it covers the bottom teeth. Martin, think about it, because when you close your mouth now, like that, your top teeth are already covering your bottom teeth. So if you have a guard on your top teeth and your mouth is closed, then your bottom teeth are covered as well. If your mouth is wide open, then, yeah, you could take a punch to the jaw. But if you had to choose between what needs protection more, the top of the jaw or the bottom of the jaw, you'd have to go with the top of the jaw. I don't know if Alex will accept that. Well, that's your problem. I'm right. There's no other available at that. What do you mean? It's well gone. Then debate it. Surely there must be a top England, or whichever nationality, rugby player listening to your show. That could explain it. But that doesn't make them more right or less right, it just makes them different explainers of what is right. Or an orthodontist, maybe. I might take an orthodontist, but in the meantime, I'm having a round of applause. I noticed during the Six nations this year that Mario Itojo follows me on Twitter. So maybe he listens to the program and he might be able to ring in with the answer. Although he has got quite a lot on his mind at the moment. That would. That would make. What's your boy's name? Alex. He's injured, so he could. Well, that would imagine if Mauro rang in, you could say it was all for Alex. There we go. Probably a bit busy and sort of physio or something like that. I'm having a round of applause in the meantime. No, no, no. I am. But I will accept to stewards inquiry on my answer because I'm not actually a fully quiet orthodontist or I am no longer a first rank rugby player. It's 1215 LBC. It is 18 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour, thankfully, is underway, which gives us a much needed opportunity for a little light relief. Verity is in Brighton. Verity, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. First of all, I just want to say thanks for the shout out to the bus route along the north Norfolk coast. It was nice to hear that on the radio. It's one of my favorite bus routes in the world. I think when all this messes up about the bus stops just being in the middle of nowhere, why is there a stop here? By a field? But if you stray off the main road, of course there's lots of little villages dotted around. And the people who've lived there all their lives think nothing of walking a mile and a half to get to the. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it is. When all this Brexit mess is over, Verity, I'm going to do a phone in on favorite bus routes. Yeah, that'd be nice. I think so. So tune in in 2047, won't you? Okay, where were we? Question or answer? Yeah, it's a question and you're gonna hate this one. Why is the toast called the toast. Were you gonna ask this before we started talking about toast? And I don't. I mean a toast as in a dinner toast. No, I know you do. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I think now, I love the question. No, I love this question. I've got a feeling and I don't. You. I mean, this must happen to you as well. It could be complete hokum. So there's no way I'm getting a round of applause, but I've got. I just got a weird feeling that they used to put a bit of toast in the drink before you drank it. No, don't laugh. Don't laugh. Like it. Like a crouton, if you will. But. But not a crouton because that's more often fried than toast. But it depends what you're drinking, actually. But yeah, I think there is something in it that would go well with a bit of bread in it. Well, you remember as a Catholic, we have bread and wine at mass every Sunday. It often involves the. I think the priest has to put a little bit of the host into the wine, into the bread. Yeah, they do. Yeah. So, you know, it's not unheard or. I just got a feeling it's got something to do with that. But don't. Don't, whatever you do, don't hold me to it. Okay? Okay. Okay. Why do we call a toast a toast? As in I shall raise a toast or toast of London, one of the best things ever to grace our television screens. 21 minutes after twelve is the time. Who invented the electric toaster? There's a very toast. In fact, I think Adrian's put up a clip of my toast based Brexit analogy as well. Toaster based Brexit analogy. So that'll be fun. In fact, I shouldn't say this, but I will. If you really, really want to understand why Brexit is happening, have a look at the replies to tweets like that, where ignorance and kind of low level xenophobia are almost elevated to performance art. So much so you think I'm exaggerating when I say I can't tell the difference between what's sent to me in jest and what's sent to me in seriousness anymore when people start talking about the will of the people and the sovereignty of parliament. Have a look at some of that. You know what will happen now? There won't be any reply, but go and have a shifty either way. Who invented the electric toaster? Why do women faint more than men? How do you decide where the bus stops go? Why do. Well, the jaw guard. I think we've got a steward's inquiry already. And finally, why are toasts called toasts? James is in Dunfermline. James, question or answer? Oh, it's the answer or suit inquiry on your gumshield, really. Oh, go on. It's more of a mouth guard, you see. It's actually to protect the teeth from hitting each other and then causing a concussion. It's secondary. It's a barrier for something because a rugby ball is not going to take your teeth out. Well, I didn't want to laugh at the fellow who asked me because he's going to play this back to his son. But equally, I didn't cover myself in glory either. It now tries. You take a shoulder in the jaw, that's not going to go, but if you then smash your teeth together, then you're knocked out. And same for boxers and same for others. Now, well, I never. I could have sat here speculating for months without getting to the answer on this one. Of course, it makes perfect sense as soon as you say it. But it's there to stop the teeth, to protect one set of teeth from the other set of teeth effectively, rather than to protect either set of teeth from some external agent. Exactly. And in american football now, where it's even more violent, they actually do cover the top and bottom teeth. You see these mouthpieces inside their helmets, you see dangling around. They shove them in and they actually do cover both sets of teeth. Oh, really? Because they have these extreme impacts to the head, which. Yeah, end their. Their careers and their lives way early. Um, qualifications. I think I can work it out. I play ice hockey. Professionally? No, not. Not professionally, no. Well, don't laugh. I didn't think anyone played ice hockey in Dunfermline. I know. I go over to Edinburgh playing Murray Field with a bunch of boys. We used to play competitively, but those days are long gone and most of us have got one or two missing teeth because those mouth guards just get in the way. So you. Whoa. Yeah, that's tough, man. So, hey, mouth guards are for wusses is what you say sometimes in the dress. That's what I'm saying. And if you cover both teeth, and I appreciate, as you've explained to us, in some sports they choose to do that, but you would struggle to communicate with your teammates. Exactly. And in rugby, there's loads of communication. Or hockey, so not so much in the likes of american football. They've got the plan already etched into their head so they can cover both teeth and go away they go, yeah. Also, their tactical conversations generally sound like this, whereas in rugby, things can get a little bit more complicated. That's a beautiful answer, actually. And a really beautiful answer. And I hope that Martin plays it to Alex and I hope that Alex is happy because, of course, often the way with questions that seem impenetrable at first is that we were looking through the wrong end of the telescope. We were using the phrase mouth guard to describe something that it doesn't actually do, which is protect from external objects or force. It's to protect from internal. Inside the head. Round of applause for James. Beautiful. I love that. That's why we do this every week. 25 minutes after twelve. Alistair's in Chester. Alistair, question or answer a question, please, James, carry on, mate. So this is from my italian colleague who has lived over here a couple of years. Citizen of nowhere. Yeah. And to complicate things, he's actually having a baby in a couple of months and there's a bit of limbo about what happens with that, which is confusing for him. But back to the question. It's about translations in the english language. He's confused as to why we say a bomb has gone off or a fire alarm has gone off, when in fact it's gone on. Oh, come off it. And it doesn't translate in Italian, they would say it's gone on. Okay, so what about a firework? You say fireworks gone off? Yeah. What does he say? I don't know. He's not in front of me now. But I said I'd call him on his behalf and I've tried for the last couple of weeks and not got to him. Going off and going on, going off, going off, off. But you set off something, that's where it comes from. You set off something. That's our figure of speech, is to set off again, white off and not on, because a fire alarm, when a fire alarm is finished, again, you would say it has finished or it's gone off. If you say it's gone off, you're using the same term as when it actually goes on. God, I've lived my whole life without realizing this. So when the firearm starts, you say it's gone off and when it stops, you say it's gone off. Exactly. And he can't understand that. And I am not clever enough to give him the answer. Nor am I, mate. My head is throbbing, my teeth are itching. I haven't even got a mouth guard on. That's. I mean, it's gone off when it starts and it's gone off when it stops. Yeah. Did you see that thing during the rounds the other day about how to eat a pineapple? I did. That's how I feel now. Except that the thing about how to eat a pineapple was really useful and helpful. Whereas all you've done is play with my. Play with my mind, Alistair. Yeah, sorry about that. Well, I've got enough going on with Brexit trying to work out whether we're upside down or the right way up or somewhere in between. But you're absolutely right. So why do we say alarm's gone off when it's gone on? You can say it's gone off when it stopped going off, but you can't say it's gone off when it starts going off because it's actually just gone on. Whoa. Almost need a sort of two Ronnie scriptwriter to steer us through this one. It's like fork handles. Alistair. Thank you. And Laura is in King's Lynn, appropriately enough. You're not on a bus, are you? That would be too good to be true. No, in a car. Carry on, Laura. You're not on the road to faking them, are you? As we speak at this moment. Oh, all right, I'll stop now, Laura, you carry on. I have the answer to your toaster question. Oh, wow. I believe the man who invented it was a scottish man named Alan McMasters. The inventor of the electric toaster? I believe so, yes. Do we? Do we hadn't have a rough idea of when. I don't know. I don't know the year, but it was quite a long time ago. What are your qualifications? Where does this nugget of information, how did it get into your consciousness? I work in catering equipment sales. Do you? Yeah. And somewhere along the line, you've heard that the bloke who invented the toaster was called Alan McMasters. You learn a lot of history when you have to learn about all the equipment. So, no, I believe. I'm not doubting you for a moment. I mean, it makes perfect sense. I just wish you'd learn a bit more history, that is, the dates, so that we could take a view on how likely it is that he might still be with us, even. I'm guessing maybe the 19th or 20th century, because pop up bolsters came out in the late 20th century. Late 20th century for a pop up toast to get over yourself. Or maybe the early, the early 20th century. I mean, electricity would be the key, wouldn't it? Electricity in home. So you're looking at early between. Yeah, I mean, he's not going. Maybe 1895 to 1900. You're just saying numbers now at random. If you don't know, you say, I don't know. You don't say, 7 million pounds. Thank you very much. I love this and I'm gonna give you a round of applause. Oh, thank you. But if anyone's got Allen McMaster's dates, is it definitely McMaster's, plural? McMaster is in similar to McDonald's. So, yeah. So the name of the bloke was McDonald. McMasters. Yeah. But McDonald's was founded by a bloke called. Well, it actually wasn't found by anyone called McDonald but Ronald McDonald. It's Ronald McDonald, not Ronald McDonald's. Correct. So it's probably Alan McMaster. Potentially not Alan McMaster's. It's Alan McMaster's toaster. But his name is Alan McMaster. Oh, I don't know. I just went to school with a lad called McMaster and I've never come across anyone called McMasters. I have a feeling it's McMaster's, but I'm not 100%. I'll tell you something for nothing, Laura. This is scintillating radio. Good round of applause for Laura. If you're yanking my chain, madam, I shall come to King's lynn and demand retribution. It's 12:30 Lisa Aziz has the headlines. Thank you. A former british paratrooper is facing prosecution of 1235. Now, in the trade, what you just heard is known as a stab. I don't know if you've noticed, we've got new stabs on Mystery hour this week. Seriously, we've been doing Misha for over a decade without noticing that all of the promotional accompaniments, or stabs, as they're known in the trade, include the text and the. Sometimes even the tweet. And I don't take texts or tweets during mystery hour. Keith has been on the team for about a month and he has now taken it upon himself to rectify that decades old error. So already, Keith covering himself in glory as a new member of team. Job well done, Keith. If you're very good, I'll tell them what your dj name is so they can come and see your next set in one of the flesh palaces of Romford. It is 1236. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. John Amici is a pal of mine. You may know him as a former NBA star. He's one of those people that, you know, he's nearby because it gets a little bit darker if the sun is out. I last saw him strolling up St Martin's lane, actually, just near where Aaron sells his big issues. And I knew it was John from the other side of the street, even though I didn't have my glasses on, because he's absolutely enormous. But he's obviously listening. Today it is McMasters, the inventor of the toaster, and, astonishingly, 1893. So when the lady in King's Lynn, his name temporarily escapes me, when the lovely lady in Kingsley actually just guessed at 1895 to 1900 on most tv quiz shows, she'd have got that because she was only two years out. It was invented in 1893. The electric toaster, later marketed by Stephen J Cook and Co. Crompton. Stephen J Cook and Co. As the eclipse. And presumably Mister McMasters did all right out of it because by the time he died on Christmas Day 1927, he appears to have been living in Versailles. 1237 is the time Paul is in Whitechapel. Paul, question or answer? I don't know why I'm sad sounding like a Dalek. Carry on. Hi, James, how's it going? All good, mate, very good. My question is beside any debate in our house with me and my girlfriend who bought paper scissors. Whoever gets to make a cup of tea. I just don't know what the origin of that one. Play that a lot with the kids. Actually, there's a new one they play as well. If you play the new one where you can't, you say the number like you can put down. If you've got. If you think about it, your two hands are either zero, five or ten, depending on how you spread them out. And you do that and you try and guess. You can do it in twos or you can do it in bigger number. Anyway, I digress. We want to know where it started. Yeah, it's a terrible phone line. I've got enough. I've got enough to go on. I'm pretty sure that rock, paper, scissors is the american incarnation of what we call scissors, paper, stone, and other countries and cultures have completely different things as well. But where does it come from? I quite like that. Also, why do we call a toast a toast? Not as in what we eat, but as in the thing we raise in a drink? Why do women faint more than men? And how do they decide where the bus stops go? I love that question. Sophie is in Sheffield. Sophie, question or answer? Oh, I've got an answer. Carry on, Sophie. My answer is for the bus stop one. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So it's not. It's not, like, exciting, really. It's quite. Come back Sophie. Well, we've lost a lot. Can we get Sophie back? I bet it's a lot more exciting than she realizes. Also, I've got a gig in Sheffield coming up, so I need to ask her advice about something. Lisa is in Birmingham. Lisa, question or answer to the fainting? Oh, carry on. Well, I'm. I've got two children, boy and a girl, and they both suffer from vasovagus syncope, which is the medical term for fainting. So for me. Do you feed them just as much as girls? Do you feed them? I do feed. Just checking. Just checking. Yes. They've both been diagnosed with lots of heart tests, all that kind of thing. Quite scary, actually, because you can really hurt yourself when you find it is scary. At one stage, my son was fainting almost every day. His is to do with stress and my daughter's is to do with if she stands up too quickly or sits down or is in too hot. So I was going to say that actually, for me, boys and girls do faint the same, but traditionally, I think, we think girls faint more because the idea of the sort of swooning, love sick teenager who sort of fell down the stairs and was in the tight corsets. But I think women do actually faint more between the ages of about 15 and 30. A lot of it can be done to their time of the month. I was going to say it's got to be linked to menstruation if it's to do with it. So lots of iron is quite a big thing. Diet can be a big thing. But anxiety, when I've had my children through all sorts of hospital tests, a lot of the consultants talk about girls suffer an awful lot of anxiety these days, a lot of pressure on themselves. And fainting is a physiological reaction to a physical reaction to a physiological symptom. So it could be claustrophobia, it could be fright, it can be the sight of blood, and it's that fear that it comes out as a faint. You're brilliant. Thank you. And, no, there's actually not one piece of that is medical. Doesn't know what it is. It is, actually. I mean, you start off with the Latin, which, of course, as Jacob Rees Mogg has demonstrated, you use a little bit of Latin. Even my mother can't tell me and Jacob Rees Mogg apart. Exactly. That. Even the thickest person on the planet sounds clever if they know a couple of words of Latin. So she. I thought I'd throw them in there for you. Yeah. And they're all right now, are they? My son hasn't fainted for about four or five months, but my daughter's now fainting at least once a week. But the actual fainting itself is not. That doesn't cause any damage. The landing. Yes, the landing, that's a problem. My daughter's quite tall, but actually all it is is your body trying to write itself. And so actually, the fainting is not an issue. And they're only out for a minute. Of course, it is just the fear of where they are when it happens, rather than when my daughter banged ahead that it's coming now and sit down. Yeah. And both of them actually are surrounded by really great friends who have spent their last year catching them in different schools. So. Yes. So when they faint, they have friends to catch. They say, this is how to walk around with a t shirt. This is not a trust exercise. It's not a trust exercise. I try and keep them sitting down as much as I possibly can. Love it. You've got a round of applause. What about us in Birmingham? Are you. Yes, in Bournville. Okay, that'll do nicely. Round of applause for Quaker country 1241 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Back to Sheffield. Sophie is there. Sophie, where were we? We were talking about bus stops. And you, I think, inaccurately suggested that the answer to how they decide where to put bus stops was not that exciting. I will be the judge of that, Sophie. Now take it away. Okay, so I don't know what I got to. I think, like, local. Local council set, like, a minimum distance, and every house should be at least within 400 meters, and the majority of them should be within, like, 200 meters. Well, that's in an urban area, but not in a rural area. Yeah. Yeah. Now, you know what? It can be a bit further. So then they'll shift it. So it'll be like 400 and 800 meters. But then if it's uphill, like in Sheffield, they'll say, you need to be within 150 meters because it's, you know, harder to walk and stuff. And that's it, really. And then they've got. No, it isn't, because then you'd have a different route for every bus. So they have to also look at the fact that the 272 and the e three and the 260 follow a similar route for some of the route, but not for the rest of the route. So there's all sorts of other things they have to take into account. Yeah. But they do expect people to change. And you'll know if you. If you've ever worked in, like, the complaints department era bus. You'll know that they're not that considerate to things like that. Well, you should see poor old Clive who deals with the complaints for this program. The poor blokes aged about 30 years since he started doing that. It's absolutely astonishing. Don't tell anyone, but the funniest ones we pass around the office and laugh at. You should probably do the same in the bus. Bus department. What are your qualifications? Well, I did a master's in transport planning and I used to work at the transport executive in Sheffield. I think that's really interesting. I think that's really interesting. But you know what the best thing about it used to be? What? There's this really cool, like, computer system, like a geographical information system that plots all these bus stops. That's. That's what I'm looking for, the route and things. So you have, like, you have these big maps that have houses in green that I've got, bus stops, houses in purple that haven't, houses in red that don't have any transport at all. So they always narrows. That's what they keep track of it and stuff. Are you going to the Sheffield festival of debate? I'm not, no. No. Why not? I'm in it. How are you? I think so. I think I've got that. I might. Have you ever heard of it? I have heard of it. It looks really good. Yeah. My husband would love to go. He'll be gutted that I'm on the radio, but this is the second time I've been on with you. My biggest achievement? Well, apart from finding him, I think it's. I think pretty sure I'm doing something in Sheffield in a month or two. Have a look at. Look it up. The festival of debate. Some really cool stuff there. Janice Vadoukis is going. That greek fellow, renewed lodge. Ed Miliband and Jeff Lloyd, James O'Brien. Oh, you don't want to see him. He's all right, Muppet. But the rest of them look good, seriously. I think it runs April, May and June, but just at weekends. Right. In the meantime, have this. Look at that fantastic 1245. I often think, as you know, I'm talking to everyone now, not just Sophie. I often find myself reflecting on how wasted some of the education I received was on me when I was young. I appreciate this doesn't apply to everybody. In fact, the younger generation seem a lot more committed to their studies, largely because one imagines of tuition fees if you're paying for it. The idea that it's somehow, a result if your lecturer doesn't turn up would feel a little bit ridiculous, wouldn't it? But, um. But I do think if I'd lived my life backwards, I'd follow completely different academic enthusiasts. Town planning fascinates me. I'm just. I am just turning into Adam Partridge, aren't I? Give me a ring. Tell me about your favorite bus route. Coming up at one on LBC. Sheila fee with James O'Brien. It is 1249, and I didn't imagine it. I am in Sheffield on Saturday, May 18, as part of the Sheffield festival of Debate, which has an astonishing lineup of talent, plus me. So I'm at the Pennine lecture theatre at Sheffield Hallam University on Saturday, May 18. If you want to come along and say hello, I'll also be signing books afterwards. It's a Saturday evening. It's 07:30 on a Saturday night. Crikey. That's the first time I've ever performed on a Saturday night. 1249 is the time Nam or Nam is in Dartford. Question or answer? Nam. Nam. Nam. Nam. It's Nam. It's. It's a question when you dial in to anyone. So, like, I called in to you guys today, why in the UK does it have a double dial in tone? And internationally, it's a single one. You mean a. As opposed to a brrrr? Yeah, yeah, exactly that. Exactly that. Why in the UK, is it completely different to everywhere else? Have you phoned other countries from other countries and left the UK out of the loop entirely? Yes. And it's still. I've called, I've. I've been abroad in Greece and it's. It transfers into a double, um, when you ring. I remember. That's correct. Yeah. And I've. My parents. My parents are from Ghana to called Ghana. And it goes into a single. From the UK. So we think the UK is unique, then, in its double trill. It thinks. I believe so. I like that question. I've got a sneaking suspicion we might have done it before, but don't hold me to that. I'll try and find out for you. What is it? What's with that dialing tone on british phones? That doesn't appear to happen on any others. Why do we call a toaster toast? What's the origin of rock paper scissors or scissors paper stone? That's all I've got, I think. Have we got anything else done? The fainting? We've done the toasters, we've done the bus stops. Done the jaw guards. Oh, an alarm off. I don't know if anyone's going to be able to answer this, but it's mad when you think about it. I love these little moments that we stumble across. Why do we say that an alarm's gone off when it's gone on? Think about it. You know, an alarm starts and we turn to each other and say, oh, that alarm's gone off. And then you say, I can't wait until that alarm goes off. It's really getting on my nerves. Two offs. It's like flammable and inflammable. Don't they mean the same thing? I think they do. Thank you. Nam. Bill's in Bishop Stortford. Bill, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Bill. It's about the toast. Why is it called a toast? You were right, actually. But I first learned about this when I was a chef and I worked at the Garrick club. And the sommelier at the Garrick club was just full of useless information. Oh, very nice. This apparently goes back to elizabethan times when they would put a piece of spiced toast into the bottom of the cup or the glass before they poured the. Whatever it was they poured in. Yes. And it was typically done in group contexts, and that's where we get the phrase toast of the town from. Yeah. And apparently at first came Tatla. Sometime in the early 17 hundreds, Tatler ran a story about this. This local belle of the town in bath, having a bath in the communal baths for the health benefits. Some male admirer went in and apparently took a. A cup full of her bath water, put a piece of toast in it and drank it. This is supposed to be in the reign of Charles II, but the phrase a toast kind of seemed to have gathered popularity in the 1700, early 17 hundreds. And it does involve. Do we know why they stuck a bit of toast in the. In the toast? To make it toast, yeah, apparently to make the stuff taste better, because it was pretty dreadful. The. The ale or the wine. It was pretty ropey at the time. So they would put spice toast in first and it would do two things. It would make the. Make the liquid taste better, but it would soak up the dregs as well. Oh, apparently. I love that answer. Qualifications? The sommelier at the Garrick club told me. Yeah, I was. Yeah, I was the chef there. And this guy was awesome, actually. He just had so much knowledge about wine. And I did research it. I mean, this was long before the days of Internet, so I had to go to the library and look at all. But from what I could find. That's apparently the history of it. I love it. Round of applause for Bill. Where are you chefing now, Bill? I'm not. I haven't done that for. Absolutely don't give yours. I don't do that anymore. That's much too hard work. Try and get a gig as a radio presenter, mate. So walk in the park. 1253 is the time. Good work, Bill. I love that. I just thinking about gout as well. I must have heard. I think I heard a program about gout on the radio. And it turns out to be a bit of a myth that it is like that falstaffian myth that it's to do with red wine. It's more likely to do with spirits or port, which is a fortified wine, so that would get filed under spirits. You wonder why I share all this stuff with you. But one day it will come up in a mystery. Our question, and I might just have given you what you need to answer it. Just like Bill's conversation with that sommelier at the Garrick club many moons ago. Stephen is in Barnett. Question or answer, Stephen? Answer. Carry on. It's the mouth guard question. Well, the concussion isn't actually. That's one of the possible injuries that can occur. That's not the reason why the mouth guard is made on the upper and the lower. Oh, go on. Well, basically, it's to do with the tongue. The bulk of the mouth guard itself. Obviously, the thickness you have on the front of the teeth, it's forming. So that bulk goes on the inside of the mouth as well as the outside. So your tongue is designed, obviously, sits in the lower arch of the teeth, on the palatial aspects of the teeth. And if you had that bulk on the inside of your mouth. Oh, your tongue will be all over the place. So you can do it, because we've seen in american football. But it would be profoundly uncomfortable. And you have it in american football, though, is their plays are normally 30 seconds to, like, a minute. So you pop it in and that's why they have it on the little chain on their cages, on their helmets. Yeah. It affects your oxygen intake, so that's fine for them. But if you're obviously running around like, you know, five minutes, like a proper sport, a proper sport like rugby, where they don't wear arms. That's right. Then your oxygen levels deteriorate and then obviously that affects you. So that's why it's just on the upper. That's a brilliant answer. It doesn't cancel out the previous one, but it certainly adds. Adds more to the weight. What are your qualifications, Stephen? I own the a company that developed the lamination and we're the only C marked mouth guard company in the UK. What does C marked mean? You know, European Union passes all their tests. Well, it gets you a round of applause. It's pretty close to a radio, sir, but not quite. Good man, I like that. Hang on, tell us what the company's called because you clearly make top ranking. Play safe, mouse guards. Say again? Play safe. Yeah, play safe mouth guards. 1256 is time. Nice one, Stephen. Jordan's in Norwich. Jordan, question or answer? Answer, mate. Carry on. It's regarding the guy who rang up about his italian friend with the alarm. Why do we say an alarm goes off when it goes on? So obviously? Well, from my point of view, it's logic. So the alarm is. You set the alarm? So the alarm is on? It's constantly on. The alarm is always set? Yes. So you can't, you can't set the alarm on because the alarm is constantly. What about fireworks? Trigger the alarm to go off. What about firework? So with regards to a firework, I would say, and in Italy they say the alarms just gone on, but in Italian. Yeah. So, well, see, I don't understand because obviously. So you set the alarm off, something triggers the alarm. In the case of a firework, I would say you have to commit an action that is a light, a lighter or something to set the. I like you, Jordan, and I like the way your mind works. But what do you describe, what verb do you use to describe the alarm no longer going off? Well, see, the alarm. So when you say the alarm is going off, the alarm is going off. Yeah. Now it's not going off anymore. Has it gone off or has it gone on? Well, it's gone off. So it's gone off and then it's gone off. No. So my wording would be the alarm is going off. Yes. The alarm has now gone off. It's been deactivated, it's finished, it's off now. So when it first went off, though, when it first started going off, it went off, therefore it had gone off. It continues to go off and now it has gone off. But something had to trigger it in order to. So the alarm can't say. In order to say the alarm is on. The alarm is set. The idea of an alarm is that something triggers the alarm in a security situation or to say that include. And then it goes off and then for a period of time it is going off until it goes off again at which point it has gone off. Yeah. So when it's off, is it off or on? It's off, but it's just gone off. Yeah. So, yeah, so it's when the alarm is on or when the arm is. Give Jordan a round of applause. Jordan, you're a genius, mate. Before you go, do you want to buy four candles? Four candles? Not really, mate, no. I've got. Yeah, I get four candles. 1258. Thank you, Jordan, you're a star. Tim's in Twickenham. Quickly, Tim. Question or answer? Answer. James, carry on, mate. The UK telephone, it's not unique to the UK because I'm australian and it's exactly the same as one that's in Australia. I heard New Zealand was as well. So there might be some Commonwealth colonial answer to this, but we don't need it today because you have answered the question by dismantling the premises of said question posed by Nam. Indeed. Thank you. Speaking of geniuses, we'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. But here's Sheila Fogarty. Oh, is that me? Am I the genius? Oh, the pressure, the pressure. Well, it's all about Brexit pretty much again today, inevitably dominating as another debate and vote takes place today, this time on extending Article 50. A big moment just a few moments ago in the House of Commons when David Liddington, standing in for Theresa May in that debate, confirmed that if her third attempt at the meaningful vote is defeated, then she won't bring it back. She'll then move on to seeking a delay in order to find some kind of parliamentary compromise that enough MP's could get behind. It's a big moment with a lot of implications for both of the main parties. There are other amendments being brought forward today of interest as well, some more likely than others to succeed. Theo Ashwood will explain it all and hopefully I will keep.