Do rats avoid mice?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It's three minutes after twelve and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery Hour is. Well, it's upon us your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. It's very straightforward, but surprisingly fun, surprising and also illuminating. It involves you ringing in with a mystery, a question to which you know there is almost certainly an answer, but you're dashed if you can work out what it is. You may have put some effort into trying to find out. You may have put precisely zero effort into trying to find out. The point is that there is a space, there is an answer shaped space in your life that somebody else will be able to fill. And they fill it, of course, by dialing zero 345-606-0973 the best contribution and the management's decision is final and the management is me. The best contribution of the of the hour receives a brand spanking new mystery hour board game, soon to be seen at the toy fair, the toy and game fair at Olympia in January, where I will be holding Stephen Mulhern's jacket as people pose for him with selfies. I. Oh, yeah. The terms and conditions are at the website. I always forget that it's a proper grown up competition, this with terms and conditions. And if you want to find out more about the ballgame, you can go to mysteryhour dot co dot UK, where you can buy it and enjoy hours and hours and hours of family fun. I think that's pretty much it. We'll probably just crack on, shall we? I think I'll just read this quickly. Which came in? I was about to say Sally. It came in from Sally, but the word is actually, sadly. So. Whoever wrote this wrote, I would have thought lockdown would have made society more compassionate and self aware. It seems to be the opposite, sadly. I thought that furlough would make people more sympathetic to the welfare state. I thought that realising that the government does have to help people when they're in a bit of bother would actually change the political nature of those sort of conversations. Or the emotional nature of those political conversations shows what I know, doesn't it? In the last hour, saying that people are abusing pub staff on the grounds that we paid your wages during lockdown, we paid your furlough. So there it is. Let's crack straight on. James is in Haywards Heath. James, question or answer? Question, please carry on. I am at school secondary school, I got sent out of my physics lesson for asking this question because my physics teacher thought I was making it up. So hopefully you don't do the same when a car accelerates and you're looking at the wheels. So the alloy wheels. Yes, they go forward, as you'd expect, but at one point, a certain speed, they appear to go backwards. Yes. And I wanted to know why that was. I think I know. I also think you probably won't accept my answer, but. Well, I'll try. It's because of the speed with which your brain can process what's coming through your eyes. Okay, so think of it. Go on, take it on. Well, yeah, so, I mean, think of like, snapshots. So if you. If you're. If your brain was processing the snaps as quickly as the wheel was turning, then it would constantly be moving forward. But when you're only getting one snap in five, then you can have an appearance of going backwards. Okay, you're right. I don't really get it, but that's probably down to me. No, hang on. Let me try again while drawing a diagram in the studio that I will endeavor. That I will endeavor to describe to you. So here are, let's say, ten pictures of a twelve. Because then you can imagine a clock face. Yep. So twelve pictures of a clock face and you are only seeing twelve and seven. Okay, so because seven is more than halfway round, it looks like it's got twelve and five might work better, but whatever works better for you, it's going. It looks like it's going backwards, not forwards. And then it reverts back to going forwards again when it slows down and your brain is processing it better again. I think it does. It's only for a period of time. And then it goes back to looking like it's forward. There's no guarantee that it would look like it was going backwards, is there? Because you're seeing two out of ten snapshots and they could convey the image that it's going forwards. But in some circumstances. In some circumstances, because you're not seeing all of the snapshots, it will appear to be going backwards. Okay. I wish he'd at least endeavoured rather than sending me out the room, but I'm delighted you've at least. Well, I mean, yeah, I think it was a valid question. I mean, he probably thought you were being mischievous. And let's be honest, James, there was probably some history there, mate. I doubt that he was making that decision entirely in the moment. There was probably some context a little bit of a little bit of history, a little bit of reasoning. Yes. But I'm not going to take the round of applause because someone else will be able to explain it better than I can. And given that you've been for years. Well, exactly. Given that you've been waiting all these years for your answer, I will. I will make sure you get something of a slightly higher calibre than I have been able to provide. James is in Malaga. James, what would you question or answer? Question. James. Two James's. So that's three. James. James. No, we've got another James up next. James Incroyden, are you there? Oh, that's John. Where did I get the other James from, then? Never mind. Sorry, I think I'm having a bit of a moment today. I don't know what's going on. James in Malaga. Question or answer? It's a question. And my question is, why is champagne the drink of celebration? Cost. Cost. Yeah. I really appreciate the power of your response there. That was a lovely cost. Yeah, of course it is. And froth. You know, you can shake it up, baby, and get a nice. Well, yeah, but someone, somewhere along the line or some, decided that it was going to be the drink of celebration. It's not. That's why, you know, it's a celebration. So get me the finest wine. Get me the finest wines known to man. And the finest wines known to man for a long time were the fizzy ones, because they were much harder to produce and therefore more expensive. And therefore, when it's a special occasion, we'll get that. We'll get the champagne in. I don't think Dom Perignon was thinking that myself. What do you think he was thinking? I think he. Well, all I do know is that I think he got the idea of making champagne from cider, but, yeah, I don't have to say it that way. So the. I don't know. I don't know why it is a drink of celebration. I know it's cultures that don't drink, but invariably, when there's a wedding or something. But why are you rejecting my theory? It is only a theory I've had to start. I've realized that because the board game, James, depends upon wrong answers, I have to start trying to answer all the questions again, even though I may get it wrong. So I have to put up answers that then turn out to be wrong. But on this occasion, I think it must be right. What other reason could there be? Well, there's more affordable drink, more affordable champagnes than, say, the high end brands you know, you can get own brands. Maybe it's the pop. It's the pop of the cork. It's the celebratory nature of the popping cork. Like a firework. Yeah, but cider does the same, doesn't it? I mean, James, there is nothing to stop you celebrating major milestones in your life with cider, mate. It's not a rule. No, because you're sounding a little. You're sounding a bit aggrieved. You're sounding a bit aggrieved now, on behalf of cider. Yes, but it is. I have heard the term poor man, champagne insider, a few songs. Wasn't there a Lily Allen song she said to it? I think so. It might have been. All right, I'll put it on the board. Why? Champagne for the special occasions. Thank you. You're very welcome. Are you on holiday? Malaga or do you live there? We do live here, yes. Retired or working or sort of semi retired, really. And it's incredibly hot, so it's not as enjoyable as people think it is. No. In fact, there are some stories in town today about future holidays being possibly moving further north in Europe, sort of Belgium and Poland becoming holiday destinations, because we're not really built for the levels of heat that southern Europe is getting at the moment. But stay safe, James. Twelve after twelve is the time. John's in Croydon. John, question or answer? Question. James, carry on. Why do moles accumulate more hair or regularly accumulate hair? So, say, for example, if it's on your arm, even though it might be hair there already, it'll be more sort of dense and thick. The hair on the mole, for example. Why is that? Yeah. I mean, I presume that it's the same reason you've got a mole. So there must be something to do with melanin and hair. Melanin must be like hair fertilizer. John, this is part of your having to answer more questions for the board game, isn't it, James? Yes, it is, John. Can we put it on the. On there for an expert? It's been rattling my brain. I didn't want to go to Cuban. Could we spend 40 seconds or so, actually, just sort of paying a bit of respect to my suggestion or not? Yeah, go on. And that makes sense. It does. But if something is happening in your skin, that creates a mole, and something is happening in your skin, that creates hairs in the same place as the mole, it's probably the same thing in your skin, and the thing that creates the mole is the melanin, which leads me inexorably to the conclusion that the melanin is also having an impact upon the hair follicle production. Very well done, James. Brilliant. Thank you. I mean, it's a good answer. Right. This is why you get the big bucks. It is why I get the big bucks. Well, I've got a whole game named after me, but I'm not going to take a round of applause at this point, John, because I sense that you'd be quite offended if I did let down, rather than offended, but, yeah, I don't want to let you down, John. I don't want to let you down. No, that's all right. It's on the board. Why do you get hairy moles? Zero 345-606-0973 why is champagne the tipple of choice for celebrations? And why, when you look at wheels turning, do they often appear to be going backwards? And I'm fairly confident that the answers I've given to all three of those questions are wrong. But that's the nature of mystery. A. You see, 12:15 is the time. The number you need to answer any of those, or indeed to pose a question of your own, is zero 345-606-0973 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's 16 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Lots of nice questions in place. I like this from Terry. I've just bought tickets to your Manchester gig, James, and tickets two nights later to watch Metallica for an anniversary present. What strange bedfellows? Well, I don't think so, frankly, Terry, I think that, you know, a night with me in Manchester talking about my new book in November, followed by a night with Metallica, I think that's called covering all the bases rather than strange bedfellows. You know, you're nourishing different parts of your cultural appetites. 17 after twelve is the time Harry is in Tamworth. Question or answer, Harry? It's a question, James. Carry on, Harry. Okay, so after a sweaty, sweaty night's sleep, which hasn't happened very often this summer, unfortunately. Yeah. When I wake up, my left armpit smells worse than the right armpit. How did. Yeah. Right. Okay. And I know it's a small sample size because my girlfriend didn't believe me, but then she woke up the other day and she also performed a sniff test on her, which was verified pretty disgustingly by myself. Okay. And her left armpit also smelt worse than the right, and I want to know why. Can I ask you a personal question? Yeah, sure. Do you spoon? Spoon? Yeah, but I'm the little spoon. Well, I didn't need that extra detail. But when you can picture, if you like, I am. She's a big girl. Is she? I know, I know, I know, I know. But do you spoon in the same direction every night? No. Are you sure? Do you have a favored direction for spooning? It's hard to say because we don't live together at the moment. So we kind of, you know. But you've only conducted these experiments when you have spent the night together. I would say that I've also conducted the experiment on my own as well. I see. It's something which I did a few weeks ago that doesn't undo my slowly germinating theory, which is that you. You favor one side when you're sleeping. Yeah, I suppose I could do more research and see whether it is just after sleep or whether, you know, going to the gym or something. I beg your pardon? I thought it was just a morning thing that we established. So far, I've only done the sniff test in the morning. I think it's going to be correct. I think it's going to be that. I think it's going to be the ventilation issue. A ventilation issue or something. I mean, it could be the other way around, but the side you sleep on is gonna have a different armpit result than the side that you're not sleeping on, isn't it? When you think about it? Yeah, it could. But I'd say I sleep in many different positions. But then again, I suppose in my sleep I probably default to one. But could it be circulation? I don't know. I mean. Well, I mean, I don't know that this answer is one that admits a definition. This question is one that admits a definitive answer. I like it. I tell you what, though, I don't know whether this will come as a shock to you, Harry. You're getting a lot of solidarity for being the male little spoon. I had no idea there was such a large community. David says, male little spoon pride. Oh, it's fantastic. Yeah, there it is. Well, I have to experiment. I wonder how many people around the nation are sniffing their armpits right now. Well, I don't know that. It's one way of establishing whether you've got this new strain of COVID or not, I suppose. But you shouldn't really have smelly armpits at all in normal circulation. Like now, I'm sitting in a studio, but I find. So, okay, so I think probably going to be a morning thing rather than a post exercise thing. But I will put why does Harry's left armpit smell more strongly than his right armpit? All right, I hope it's not just me. We'll find out. Well, I don't know. It might be just you that's inquired, you know, checked. Why would you check? Well, you got to check these things, you know. No, you don't. Why would you check? What did you think? Did you. Did you sort of think, gosh, you turned your head slightly and noticed a change in atmosphere and thought, gosh, that's odd. I seem to be smelling a little bit more when I face this way. And then you went in, or why would you do it? What do you. Quite possibly it's something that I noticed quite a while ago. So I can't quite pinpoint the exact moment when I realized, but I just thought of it the other day when I was listening to mister hour last week, and I thought that would be a great question. That is a mystery. You thought to yourself and who you are. I mean, I'm not going to lie to you, Harry. I'm surprised you got past the. The quality control that is supposed to be in place. But I'm glad you did. Well, maybe the producers have the same symptoms. Maybe they want to find out, too. I don't want to think about that, mate, but I will. Why is Harry's left armpit smellier than his right arm? But as far as we know, after sleeping okay, Louise is in Aberdeen. Louise, question or answer? Question. James. Please carry on. Years ago, we used to take our four kids camping to France with all our camping equipment and stay on small campsite. Oh, Lordy. I know. It was great. Absolutely brilliant. You know, against unhaven. Are we there yet? However, on some of the campsites, there would be mice, and you would see them come up, you know, through the floor of the tent. What? Field field mice. Field mice. Yeah. Okay. I hope they were. So we spoke. We would speak to the campsite owner, and this happened on maybe three or four different campsites. And they always said the same thing, which was where you get mice, you don't get rats. Yes. Now, I'd like to know whether that's true or whether it's only true in France. Well, I mean, again, I think that we may have a category error here, because I think that would be referring to domiciles to buildings. Ah. Because there's no way that an entire french meadow could be rat free as a consequence of there being two dormice in it, is there? Well, I think there were more than that. I mean, the mice that we had in various campsites were fairly prolific. And did you ever see a rat? I never saw a rat, but it's an indoor outdoor thing as well. So, albeit that it's a campsite, it's an. It's an outdoor environment. I mean, they would have buildings or, you know, toilet blocks and places you can. We want to examine the broad claim that where there are mice, there aren't rats, but I think it is usually talking about. So a pest control person might say, if you get them to come and look at some droppings and say, well, that's mice droppings. But the good news is, if you've got mice, you haven't got rats. I don't think they'd say that in a field. Okay. But I'm going to put it out to the experts. Thank you very much, James. Thank you very much. Do you have more enjoyable holidays now, I hope, Louise? Well, yeah, lots of enjoyable holidays. But, you know, the camping ones were great because the kids met other kids. Oh, no, that's true. You did have a sort of built in social life and that meant that the mum and dad got a little bit more time. The kids were happy. They made up a language called Trangledeut and they just all had an absolutely billion time. And if you cooked bacon in the morning, you could upset a whole campsite. Yes, I can imagine. Or delight or create envy, I suppose. Thank you, Louise. Mice and rats. Is it true if you've got mice, you can't get rats? What's the truth of that? Lots of pest control experts listen to this program, so no doubt we'll get to the bottom of it. Why does Harry's left armpit smell worse than his right armpit? Why does John have hairy moles? That's a more general question. Hopefully they both are, otherwise it'd be a bit weird. Why do we use champagne for celebrations? And why does it sometimes look like wheels are going backwards? Oh, thank goodness for that. The grown ups have arrived. Is in Brighton. Professor Hal is in Brighton. It's going to be the wheels question. It is for the second time. I posit. I know, but I think we've been doing it so long now, we don't need to be embarrassed about repetition or possibly how point it out at all. No, but it's a nice question. It is. There's lots and lots of science going on and you're not going to like this. No, no, you're not going to like this. I think that the op. The original contributor. I think they think they've seen in the street aloe wills looking like they're going backwards, but they haven't. They've seen it on film, on tv. That was it. Yes. No, and I'll explain why. Yes. No, that was it. That's what I forgot. You're right. You're exactly right. Go on. Right. So the tv thing is called the cartwheel effect, and it's most noticeable in 1940s westerns when the cartwheels were going round. But they weren't going round as quickly as the frame rate of the film. That was it. Yeah. And therefore, each time the next frame comes up, the cartwheel hasn't quite caught up, so it appears to be going backwards. Now, I got. I think I got pulled up on Twitter about this because somebody. Oh, no, no. I. I hang around Red Hill aerodrome and as you might imagine, a chap like me looks at helicopters and propellers and asks science questions and they absolutely go round and then they blur into a single disc. And there's two bits of evidence for this, because if people say, oh, no, no, I'd see there's two things. You know the color wheel thing, you get, you spin a color wheel and it ends up looking white. Yes. We don't see the color wheel going backwards. At some point, our eyes just say, you know what I can't be doing with this? Say your eyes. Your eyes say, yeah, but the second one is, it's a really lovely thing on trains. If you look into someone's eyes across the table. Look into my eyes. Look into my eyes and you look at their eyes and look at the window, you see their eyes jerking back to make. You don't notice you're doing it, but their eyes jerk back. It's called nystagmus and it's a way that we can stitch together a series of pictures to make it into one continuous vista. Now, don't do it to someone you don't know because I think that's a bit strange. But next time you're on the train with Misses O'Brien, for example, look into her eyes as she looks out the window and you'll see them jerking faster than you can imagine. So it is about frame rates, as you've said, and you can sort of. You have to sit down and work it out. That have their back, but they'd have to be facing the engine for that to happen, I think. Well, if they look out at right angles to the direction of travel, right angles is fine. Yeah. Looking at the houses or the fields, whatever, passing your eyes. Keep flicking back to the previous scene. And it's so interesting. I'm sure it's on YouTube, but it's much more relevant if you see someone doing it. Very, very interesting. That's called nystagmus, the rapidly jerking eyes. And if you want to work out the kind of frame thing, just imagine there's a propeller pointing at 12:00 as the next frame comes up, the propeller tries to get back to 12:00. But it makes it only to, let's say, 11:00. Yeah. And then the next frame, 10:00. It appears to be going backwards because it's not coinciding with the frames. And if the frame is exactly the same frequency as the propeller, it will appear to be absolutely motionless. And on YouTube, there's some videos of helicopters apparently having a motionless rotor because the frame rate's exactly the same. Wow. That's a characteristically brilliant answer. I kind of zoned. I zoned out would be the wrong way of putting it. I was a bit blinded by science about two thirds of the way through. So, from Richard's point of view, do you think it's almost impossible that he's seen this happening with wheels, not on film? Yes, yes, that's fine. I just wanted to clarify that. So do I, now. But there it is. So, I mean, Mark's out of ten for my answer. No, we're looking at a mid seven, I think. I think you have it absolutely right, bar the fact that it wasn't. It's not your eyes that do it. It's about flipping camera, isn't it? It's the flipping camera. Yeah. There it is. Qualifications? For the time being, I'm professor of public understanding at the University of Brighton. Why for the time being? Brighton's been in the news recently, my good chap, and we've had some. There's blood on the floor. I'm afraid to say that we're having some redundancies. And are you moving on? Yes, it would appear so. Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. But you know that you're brilliant and you'll bounce back and find a new birth imminently. Professor. It is. I'm very stoic about it and it's quite exciting. I've been here for 28 years, so there's a lot going on. Well, I wish you all the very best and you will never be redundant in mystery hour. Hal. What a lovely thing to say, James. I'm glad you think so. I'm sorry to hear your news. I should perhaps have been across it sooner. So you take care and enjoy. In the meantime, your first. The first round of applause of the day. But it's about Hal's millionth. And there it is. Have you got a board game, Hal? I haven't, no. Well, you've just moved into the lead for this week's competition. Although I can't, obviously. You know, who knows? Who knows where it. Where it will end? Who knows? It's coming up to 12:30 so we've still got the champagne question. The hairy moles, the smelly armpits. This sounds like a punk festival, doesn't it? The hairy moles, the smelly armpits and mice. The rats and the mice. Yeah, there it is. It's a lemon. Punk. And speaking of punk, I just want to pay a little brief tribute, if I may, to Jamie Reed, who's a brilliant artist. You'll be familiar with his work, his collage work for the. For the Sex Pistols, the God Save the Queen album cover for the Sex Pistol being possibly his most famous image. But he passed away yesterday, it was announced. And it suddenly occurred to me that having just listed questions that sound very like the lineup at a punk festival, it would be quite a good moment to hope that Jamie Reid rests in peace. 76 years old. Lovely obituary in the Guardian today that you might want to read. Artist and graphic designer whose work for the Sex Pistols was a central pillar of the punk East. 12:30 is the time. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 it is 1233. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. I'll remind you of the questions that still need answers in a minute, but let's crack on first. Terry's in Bexley. Terry, question or answer? It's a question, James. It's something that keeps me awake at night and wondering. And you can probably cast some light on this. It relates to your good self. Now, the O, as in O'Brien, my irish neighbor tells me it's to express surprise. Now he's yanking your chain, as I'm sure you know. I love that. It does seem to be only from Ireland and I just. I'm curious. I'm sure you know the answer to this, but when he told me it was to express surprise, I thought, yes, that's hilarious, but how can that be true? But then he's from Waterford and they've got great sense of humor. There and I guess maybe it could be true. Well, you've opened a minefield, actually. Or rather you've opened a pandora's box. You can't open a minefield because, I mean, you've got. There's a colonial element to this conversation. There's controversy. It wasn't originally. I know this. The answer, basically is descendant of. So both O and Mac. Both denote. For irish people, both denote descendant of. So I see. So for Bryan's, it's usually believed to be Brian Beru, who was a sort of king of Ireland, but it would be clan leaders. So O'Neil, O'Keeffe, O'Shaughnessy, all of those. Originally, it wouldn't have been an apostrophe. I do know the name of what it would have been. It was a sort of little mark above. Above the o. Do you see what I mean? I think it's a fada. Fada. And when the English started killing us all for fun, they wanted to change our names. They wanted to anglicize our names. So they got rid of the fada and they often got rid of the Mac, but some of us kept an apostrophe instead. So the apostrophe is best understood as an anglicized father. And yet, to answer your original question, that the o is descendant of. Well, that seemed. The description is obviously correct, but it seems a bit dark and a bit sad, so I'm happier to keep. Continue to think it means to express surprise. Well, then you'd need an h. An h rather than an apostrophe, which is. No, because it's a silent h, isn't it? It's also a name I go by occasionally. Oh, it's not. I mean, the bit. The bit about the anglicization and the colonial oppression is sad, but the bit about descendent of denoting descendant of is. Oh, yeah. And it's the same for ap in Wales. So you live and learn, eh? I like it. I've learned something today and I've got my first round of applause. Thank you, Terry. You're very welcome. Lovely stuff. 1237. Cheers, Terry. Take care. James is in Brentwood. James, what would you like to say? I mean, question or question or answer? I got confused because Terry was still talking. I never get that wrong. I've got question or answer, James. Answer, please. Carry on to the mice and rats. Yes. Generally they won't be in the same area, but they can infest the same building. Go on, tell me more. So, for example, you could have rats underneath your kitchen cupboards and you could get mice lost, but generally you don't get them in the same area because the rats will eat the mice. It's that simple. So it's not like the mice keep the rats away, it's that the rats eat the mice. Yeah, that's essentially the long and short of it. So, on Louise's french campsite, where there were lots of mice, just the rats hadn't turned up. Pretty much, yeah. And they probably wouldn't because, I mean, all you need, because there's no permanent residences there. So rats are going to be either in a building or near a. Near a railway line or a river or. I mean, what are you looking. I presume you're in pest control, are you, James? Yeah, I've just set up on my own this year, actually, but I've been doing it for five years. All right, I'll give you an advert in a minute if you want one. In the mean. In the meantime, what are we looking? So, a rat, do they want different habitats? So a rat will need a higher amount of water. So they need more water than they do food, whereas mice can actually survive without water as long as the food is above 16% moisture. That's a great answer. And that does explain why you would not have them in Louise's campsite. Unless there's a water source around. Unless there was a pond or a lake nearby, in which case you stand very, very often new sea rats. Near watercourses, near canals. Exactly. Exactly that, yeah. Qualifications? I've got a bachelor's in environmental science and a master's in post harvest technology. Post harvest technology, yeah. It's essentially just like food security. Global logistics of food security. Fantastic. What's the business called? Mitchell Environmental Solutions. Mitchell Environmental Solutions. And how's it going? It's going all right, actually. Yeah? Yeah. I've still got room for a lot more work. Of course you have. Well, hopefully we'll push some your way if you're. And you're based in Brentwood, are you? Yeah, I cover Essex in London. So if you're looking for someone to advise on pest control in general, I mean, what do you do? Do you do everything? Mice, rats, foxes, squirrels. Yeah. Mice, rats. Foxes, moths. We. Wasps. Bees, beetles. Birds. Squirrels. Squirrels. Yeah. I've had a few squirrel jobs. I'm sorry? I've had a lot of experience with pest control. You know, I've had bees. Because you live in London in it. Well, yeah, but, no, the bees was. Bees was in a sort of outbuilding. Okay. Foxes, yeah. There's a lot of foxes around. I quite like foxes. They keep. Do you think foxes do keep rats away? Is that a thing? They will. They will actively hunt them. Yeah, that's good. Yeah. Yeah. Fox foot, bees, squirrels in the loft. That's a weird one because you think you've got no idea. That noise is bizarre. Right. And then they'll come back again. They'll nibble their way back in again. If you're not careful, they can do all sorts of damage. Yeah. Their teeth are actually strong enough to chew through concrete and steel. Same for mice and rats. You know your stuff, I think that's my lot. I don't. What's the most exotic thing you've been called out for or unexpected? Probably a gecko, but don't tend to get geckos over here. But why would that be a pest or was it just lost and they wanted your help in finding it? It was at a supermarket where I used to work and they just probably. I think they changed something to do with the fumigation process. Veggies. And it just kind of a gecko, an escaped gecko came in. Well, it probably come in on the produce. Had it? Yeah. Yeah, I think it was on the bananas. What do you live and learn, eh? You get lots of spiders and things coming in on bananas as well. But that gets a little bit hairy. Have you got a website? Yeah, it's mitchellenvironmentalsolutions dot co dot Uk. There you go. That's pretty basic. No, mate, you don't want to mess around with that. You don't want to be faffing about with it. You've got an environmental problem, it needs a solution. Mitchell's your man. Mitchell Environmentalsolutions Co. Uk. There you go. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. I wish you well with that, James, I really do. You take care. Thank you very much and good luck. 1241 is the time. Oh, three, four. So if you're in, you know, Essex or London and you've got. You just think, you know, I need one of those. I just wanted someone over there. There you go. Get yourself on there now. Ross is in Melrose. Ross. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Okay, but backgrounds. Remember back in the winter time when we were looking cost eleven crisis, being told to maybe turn the thermostat down a degree or two? Yes, in glorious times. I like a 21, you know, living the dream. Yeah, but maybe get it down to 19, but that's as far as I was willing to go. I don't think I'd go down to 18. Right. However, it was 18 degrees in Scotland yesterday, and there's people wandering about with their tops off. So why does temperature feel different when it's the same? Well, it's probably not, is it? Well, I mean, it is if you look at thermostat or a thermometer. Yeah, but it's probably not the same, if you see what I mean. Nope. Well, nor do I, actually. But it can. But it can't be, can it? Well, hence why I'm phoning you. I don't want to google it, but, you know, even at 19 or 20 degrees in the winter, you'd have, you know, a jumper on, maybe your house yearly. But, you know, it's 18 degrees here today, and I'm in shorts and sleeves rolled up, so. All right. Temperature. Yeah. So in your house, that degree centigrade would be quite cold, but. But when you're out and about, it's quite hot. What's going on? Yeah. Yeah, I like that question. Thank you. I'll try and get an answer, Ross. That's the point, isn't it? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you know the answer to that fodder I'm being told is how I should have pronounced that. I did so well on that answer about O's and irish names as well. But fodder, I don't have any irish at all. The only irish phrases I know are rude, and I can't say them on the radio. 1243 is the time. Cindy's in Alicante. That's the second spanish caller of the hour. Question or answer, Cindy? Question, James. Carry on. Okay, so I've got quite long hair, and the hair that's still attached to my head when it touches my shoulder doesn't irritate me. But as soon as the hair becomes loose and it lands on my shoulder, I have to get rid of it. It's like having a mosquito or a fly or something land on me. Yeah, but. Yes. No, I'm just thinking, you know, I never. I'm never presumptuous enough to come in quickly on it. But you never have. You never have a lone hair resting on your shoulder, do you? I do, yes. No, you don't. Yes. Don't be silly. I do. If a hair becomes loose. If. Course I do. If hair becomes loose, it just sticks to my. No, I don't know. I mean, a lone attached hair. Oh, I see. I see. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Well, do you think that would be the difference? Yeah, absolutely certain of it. If it's a lot of hair. It wouldn't irritate me because it's not got the. It's not got the, you know, like a feather. So a lone, unattached hair is tickling you like a feather, isn't it? But if it was. If it was a. If it was a sort of mid ponytail type scenario, then it's not going to tickly like a feather. It's too heavy to do that tickling type thing. I don't. I don't know. But it's a brilliant answer. It is. It is. Well, no, it's not. It is actually tickling it. I mean, it's just a. Perhaps a different kind, because the. Because the hair is a bit different texture to the feather, but it is. It's the lightness of the individual unattached hair that is causing the irritation. And if you. If you. If it was still attached to your head, then it would not be. If you could somehow. I don't know if you want to do this now. If you could some. If you could somehow separate a single hair still attached to your head. Yeah. Just a single one, and then sort of tickle your shoulder with it, then I bet you get the same sort of effect. What's happened now? I think you've dropped your phone because you're trying to pick a hair out the side of your head. What? No. Phone's gone. Phone's gone. Funny. I think I've answered your question, but I will respectfully leave it on the board. Why is a single hair. Well, I don't. I think it is that, but we lost the phone line then. I hope that wasn't my fault for asking her to contort herself in pursuit of a single hair. 1245 is the time. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1249 already. Questions that still need answers include why we drink champagne when we're celebrating. I thought this one would be quite easy. Even if I got it right, I've left it on the board so you can ring in and get the round of applause and, of course, entry into the competition to win a mystery, our board game. But why do hairs grow out of moles? Why is the part of your skin where a mole is hairier than the rest of it? That's for John in Croydon. Harry wants to know why one arm pit is smellier than the other in the morning. Again, I think it's probably because he's laying on one side, but if anyone. I mean, what qualifications would you need to go definitive on that, that 1 may stay unanswered. Why the temperature? When they say it's 18 degrees outside and you think, oh, I won't take a coat, but then when it's cold inside and you turn your thermostat on, 18 degrees wouldn't touch the sides. What's going on there? And Cindy's hair. Why does a lone hair irritate her, but a hair still attached to her head does not? Well, we'll find out. Paul's in Swansea. Paul, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Champagne is linked to a celebration because the french kings were coronated in Reims back in the 12th century, right. And they invited the british aristocrats and kings and then they thought, oh, this is quite nice, so they imported it back to the UK and then that's why it was linked to celebration. Well, that's a. That's a lovely answer. In fact, probably not even importing it back to the UK. But, you know, for quite a long period of time, the links between the english monarchy and the french monarchy were so close that they'd have just done the same thing. They'd have said, well, we must have champagne, we are celebrating. That's what. That's it. That's the answer. So they did it. Qualifications. I've worked in hospitality all my work in life and I went to many champagne tasting sessions and the salesman for Vervecko said, it should not be linked to celebration, but an everyday drink. So I said to him, why was it linked to celebrations? And then that's what he told me. That's interesting. I mean, it's sound business sense from your verve clico fella, isn't it? Because the last thing you want is to be flogging something that you only have on high days and holidays. Exactly. And they did. I mean, that is a lovely answer, Paul. It's got you a round of applause. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. I'll remember that as well now, because that is one of those things that can pop up in all sorts. What did I say? It was just the cost. So I was completely wrong. Not for the first time and almost certainly not for the last. Completely wrong. And indeed, as the fellow who wrote James, who asked the question pointed out, it's not the most expensive you could drop. You know, you get a bottle of champagne for 50 quid, you can get a bottle of normal wine. Well, non fizzy wine for 200 quid or 2000 quid. Thank you, Paul. Steve's in Basingstoke. Steve, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Right. I'm answering the question about why it feels hotter outside than in your own home sometimes. So. And the answer is quite simple. If it's a bright day outside, you've got the sun's radiant heat. Yes. That warms you up. And the radiant temperature can be significantly higher than the air temperature. Right. And that's. So there are two different types of. When they say that today it's 18 degrees outside, what are they taking there? What? That's the. What we call the dry bulb temperature. So it's the air temperature rather than the radiant heat that strikes. I understand that. But then I come into my house and I set my thermostat to 18, and I'm not warm at all. That's right. Because you've lost that radiant heat from the sun and it's just the air temperature you're feeling. So even though. Even though it's 18 outside and 18 inside, it's just the sun that's making the difference. It is, yes. Yeah. It's the radiant heat from the sun that's striking you. So you can even feel hot. It could be t shirt weather on a brisk, cold day if the sun is shining brightly. Okay, I think I understand. So it could be 18 without much sun, and you'd feel cold outside. That's right. It could feel very cold outside. In fact, it could feel colder than 18 if with a wind chill. But the air temperature. You can feel hot with the same air temperature. Or cold even. Qualifications? Well, I run a small business called window treat, and it's. We're like doctors for glass, and many of my customers suffer from overheating behind glass. It's making commercial environments, homes, more comfortable. Either too cold, too hot, whatever it might be cool. So we solved the puzzle for them. Round of applause for Steve. 1254 is the time George is in Torquay. George, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Sweaty armpits are. I used to be, many years ago, the secretary of the West Country Armed Wrestling association. We used to put on events at various regattas and fetes, and it became evident to me that the amount of perspiration generated by armpits during the course of a contest could cause an atrocious amount of sweat and smell. Yes. I mean, if you've ever seen a. An event competition, you'll notice that the two contestants usually avert their heads away from the union of their two arms simply because of the enormous stink. It's not because of the enormous stink. Oh, it is. They grimace. They grimace. They're not grimacing because of the smell, Joe. I mean, you could deodorize before, before a competition, couldn't you? Well, also, it's stale chalk on their hands, but they don't put chalk on their armpits. It's stale sweat that smells. And you're, you're in the middle of. About is about the correct terminology, George, but you have to remember that these events go on for quite a while. Yeah, but it's fresh sweat, mate. It's gushing. Fresh sweat gushing from the pits. We're talking about west country, my friend. What's the longest bout you can remember? Oh, these things could. The primary stage to the final could be about 2 hours. The longest individual contest. Is there a time limit? I mean, is it always to the death? The best of three. But is it always to the death, though? You never, you're never going to get like a stalemate where the referee. You had sometimes where they couldn't, they couldn't prevail, so they would. Yeah, they would. An impasse. Yeah, they would put that down as a draw. And deciding. Deciding. I don't. I mean, I'm fascinated by your history and arm wrestling etiquette in general. I've never taken part in arm wrestling myself. You were just secretary of the association. Well, I'm five foot two, you know, I'm only five foot two and seven and a half stone. Sound a lot bigger. I can assure you that my armpits are absolutely pristine. I'm very glad. How did you get into that role, then, if you had no personal involvement in the sport? Well, the same way that a cox and gets to be on a rowing boat, I suppose. Sort of, yes. I don't. I mean, I don't think you've provided us with an answer to the question of why one armpit would be smellier than another, though, after a night's sleep. Well, because that's, that's the armpit that's engaging in the physical effort. So I would suspect. He's asleep. He's asleep. He's not engaging in any physical effort. And remember, this is a family program before you start exploring other possible theories. I wasn't about to do that. Yeah, but you laugh first, so I win. He's asleep. There's no physical activities at all. Right. I had missed that point. I still maintain that the arm, your right arm, which you use mostly, will create more perspiration and hence more sweat. Thank you. I'm not going to give you a round of applause, especially not now. I know you're only five foot seven. I was quite intimidated earlier because your voice is so deep, but I'm a lot happier now. So no chance there's nothing there. That explains why Harry's left armpit smells worse than his right armpit. Are you going to write your memoirs, George? I doubt it. It's just another one of my failed theories of life, I suppose. It's just one chapter, mate. I wouldn't. Put yourself down. I'd love to know more. Thank you, George. Paul's in Wexford. Question or answer? Clarification, James. Carry on, Paul. In the irish language, you're partially correct when you talk about your name being O'Brien, yes. Being of the family of Brian. Yes. But the Mac is actually the son of. Oh, is it specifies. It specifies on orange. Yeah. So you would have Mac for son and then you would have Nick. Nic. Yeah. Who was the daughter of. Okay, so if you see. If you see somebody who's Max Sweeney. And, like, we would just use maxweening in the anglicized version most of the time, but in Irish it would be Maxiv noc, meaning the son of Sweeney, but it would also be Nick Sibnach, meaning the daughter of Sweeney. So it clarifies, kind of male or female in terms of son or daughter of the clan of Sweeney. And the o just means of. The o means of the clan. Right. Not the. Not the. Not the child of the director. It's not the child of. No, it's not the child of. It's just of the clan of Brian. Whereabouts in Wexford are you? Just outside Wexford town. Lovely qualification. Proud Irishman and European. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Paul. And how do you pronounce. How do you pronounce that little diacritic mark above the o before the. It's fodder. And what it does is elongates the vowel. Oh, not. Oh. Aubrian. Aubrian. No. So. Oh, it is elongated, the vowel. It's why I'm a fogarty, not a foggy. That's why she's a fogarty, not a foggy. Exactly. There you go. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Round of applause. He had his round of applause. Well done, Paul. There we go. Okay. Lovely stuff. Enjoy the show. Thank you. I'm glad to hear it. I'm glad someone does. I mean, crikey, I'm spoiled for choice today, but I'm gonna have to give the misjab all going to Professor Hal, because he shared that sad news about his tenure at Brighton University coming to a close. But it could have been Paul. It could have been. Well, I guess James got a free advert, didn't he, for his Mitchell environmental services? It could have been. It could have been almost anyone this week as a vintage mystery hour, which is appropriate because the second question was about champagne. Vintage shirt. No? All right, if you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global play at Rewind live radio or enjoy the whole show podcast. You'll also find all of LBC's shows to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcasts, including the self contained Mystery Hour podcast. So there's loads of these that you can listen to in isolation. Rewind live radio on global player, download it for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Ben Kentish with you at four, standing in for Tom Smallbrook. But now it's time for Sheila foe. Not for a good tea. Exactly.