Why is it called a skip?- 4 Dec 14

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time, and mystery hour is upon us. It was Carl who sent that tweet I read out to you a moment ago, using it as evidence that some people hold an affection for this hour of radio that occasionally even we are slightly taken by surprise by. Carl writes, I've just had a prostrate opposite prostate operation, but it means I'm at home for mystery hour. Yippee. And one lady I've just retweeted is currently listening to us in the bath, it would appear. Thank you, Heather. Lots of people love this. If you're new to it, why not stick around and find out why? The best way to explain is probably that you are. Well, actually, if you don't need it explaining, pile in. Now, I've got some phone lines free, so if you know what's what, zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you are familiar with those newspaper features, notes and queries. I think it is in. Is it notes and queries in the Guardian or Q and A? The mail carries it as well. So if the Guardian and the mail both do it, then there's got to be a fair degree of enjoyment. Whatever your background or outlooks may be, this is the radio equivalent. So someone rings in with a question, ideally you actually a question that is both fascinating and, if you will, intriguing in the sense that it will have an answer and someone will know it. It's not a sort of existential question or a philosophical conundrum. It's a who or a why or a what or a where or a when, a wither a whether or wherefore, and someone else knows the answer. So if you've got a question, whatever it is, if I tell you that some of our regular responders are professors, university professors I met. Well, I met Professor Howe, I met him for the first time on Sunday, in fact, if you go to my Twitter feed, you can see me doing an amazing experiment live in a publisher with Professor Hal. Absolutely magical, the experiment and the meeting. Lovely man. And that gives you an indication of the serious end of the questions that we deal with. But equally, the answer to the question, when I say, what are your qualifications? How do you know this? He would say, well, I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. But you might say, oh, I saw it on telly last week, James, it doesn't matter where you got the knowledge from, this is a celebration of the fact that you have it. You've got the knowledge. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call. And I think that's it. If you hear someone else ask a question to which you know the answer, zero 345-606-0973 is still the number to call. If it's a question about motoring or something else that is generally quite dull and only of interest to the person asking the question, we'll politely invite you to move along. Nothing to see here. And similarly with repetition. Although that's a pretty hard rule to police, because none of us are getting any younger and our memories aren't what they used to be. You've got the sort of question in mind. There is an archive at LBC dot co dot UK comma, where we list some of the ones that we've dealt with in the past. But generally speaking, the only reason you won't be made to feel very welcome is because the question is either one that we've done before or one that is considered dull, is that it? I think that's all the housework we need, isn't it? That's all the sort of foundation building. Just sit back and enjoy. And you'll see in a matter of moments that the questions will move from the sublime to the truly ridiculous in the blink of an eye. Actually, before that, just give me a moment. I said yesterday, now that my mum listens, we've gone national, so you can get me in kidderminster. I get picked up on things that I am capable, perfectly capable of addressing and saying my p's and qs properly. Getting my thank yous in there is important. So I'd like to thank british turkey for the turkey they've just sent into the studio. British turkey, quality british turkey. And they've just sent an entire turkey, cooked, roasted with all the trimmings. And I like this because this is the first time in ten years I won't be cooking on Christmas day, actually. But if I was, this could have been quite useful advice. If you go to their website, Britishturkey dot co dot UK, there's a helpline you can right up until 05:00 p.m. On Christmas Eve. So there's a text number you can send with the weight of your bird, and they'll send back instant cooking time and. And the number of people that it will feed. There's great advice on what turkey you should buy stuff to do with leftovers. I love that. And it's. It's a good. I mean, that's british farmers that are being supported by this, isn't it? British turkey farm. There's no downside to this. Michael, the producer got to eat a whole turkey single handedly, and everybody else can go to the website and find out whether or not they can get any help for them. So thank you. British turkey. What was it yesterday? Beer and sausages. Today it's a roast turkey. What the hell is going to get delivered to the studio tomorrow? James is in Canterbury. James, you can kick us off. What's your question? Hi, James. I've got many questions, but I know I'm only asked one, so I'm going to hopefully cool every week. My first question is a person of diplomatic community, which I assume exists, what is the limits of that? Can they just steal sweeps or can we do other, worse things? Where's the limits of what you can get away with the community? I think it goes all the way to the wire. I'm not claiming an answer on this. I'm just chewing the fat with you anyway, James. Well, fair enough. I think it goes. There was something. I was listening to something on the radio the other day about diplomatic immunity certainly goes a lot more seriously than stealing, sweets. I mean, it was a sexual assault. I think that was being discussed and diplomatic immunity was pertinent. We really want to know about murder, don't we? Well, if you're suspected of murder, extreme things like maybe terrorism and stuff, where's the limits? That's what I so do. I know. That's a lovely question. Are there any limits on diplomatic immunity? We'll get an answer to that. Or I'm a turkey. Zero. 345-606-0973 the number you need if you can answer James question, or indeed any of the other questions that are coming up in the course of the next hour. For example, Mark in Heathrow has probably got one, unless he's got an amazingly quick answer to the last one. Mark. Question or answer? Hey, question. James. Good afternoon. Silver and gold, etcetera, like silver candelabras and things, how they are baited. They have all these fancy stamps on there, all these letters of different shapes and so. And so. Why don't they just put the date on there? For example, if it was made in 1881 for a eight one, what is the point of all these fancy letters and things? You've lost me a bit, my friend. What. What are you are you talking about roman numerals? No, they're not roman. Roman numerals. If you made in 1881, for example, it'd be a letter k, because letter k means 1881. Right. Why don't they put a date on there? So people like me, the layman, who is ignorant, they say, oh, this is 100 years old. It says on there, 1904. Well, then some letter. We don't know what it means. Are you talking about hallmarks? Yes. Well, they're not dates. No, hallmarks. Where they made like a lion or an anchor. I don't understand the question. I don't. I've got no idea what you're so cross about. When it was manufactured, it's made in Birmingham, for example. It might be an anchor or whatever, but that's all data was made. You don't have a date. He has a letter. Yeah, and there's only 26 letters in the Alphabet. So what they do is they change actual style of the letter. Can I just say, who cares? Would that be an answer? Apart from you, obviously. I'm sure maybe two or three people do as well. No, because you phrase the question in a way that no one can answer it. Now, the essay office might answer it. Yeah, well, you could ring them, I suppose. I mean, that little rule about dullness, a question to which only you will be interested in, the answer has rarely been as well fulfilled as it just has by you. Fair enough. Unless I've misunderstood the question, which I don't think I have. It's just incredibly boring, isn't it? Maybe. Why are you getting so worked up about it, though? You sounded a bit like Russell brand that you just did it again. I'm not. You are. It's a strange thing to care about. If I've got it wrong, if I've misjudged the question, I will, I will. I'll have some humble pie with my turkey after the show, all right? Okay, I promise. But as far as I can tell, it's just hogwash. Steve's in Eastfield. Steve, did you get any of that, Steve? I did, but don't worry about it. All right, carry on. What I'd like to know is the left hand side of a ship is the port side and the right side is starboard side, but it used to be starboard and larboard. So why did it change to port? I don't know. Is it a mystery? Is it a full moon? Is it at the moment? Is this a mystery? What? I mean, no, we won't start howling at you because the port, I mean it changed the port so that everyone would know that's the side that's supposed to go into the port. So you're suggesting that everybody sails counterclockwise into a port? I'm not suggesting anything. I've never heard a larboard before. I don't. Why did they change larboard to port? Correct. All right, I'm going to take a vote at the end of whether or not these questions are good or bad. I've never. Larboard to port. When did it change? I've no idea. That's a don't. Don't. Ring in with that next week, will you? Whatever you do. All right, Steve. I'll do my best. James. Now, another James in Wellingarden City. James, what's your question? Morning, James. Likewise. I'm one of your regular tweeters. Good man. Led light bulbs. I discovered last week that the warmth is measured in kelvins. Who's Kelvin and what's he got to do with the warmth of a light bulb? Kelvin. It was a scientist who invented the temperature scale that we used before Mister Centigrade came along and invented a new one, Mister Celsius. What's the scale, then? You've had your answer, pal. He was a physicist, a british physicist, probably scottish, actually, from that era. They were leading the world in most fields, and he invented a measure, measurement of temperatures, that was in place before Celsius, or even if it wasn't before. That's the answer. Mister Kelvin invented a scale. A temperature scale. Wonderful. I'm seen of. Round of applause, please. Thank you, James. Thank you, James. Barry's in Camden. Barry, question or answer? One that's driven me mad. I like to know where words come from. And build. Oh, I like that. Doesn't come up at all anywhere. Does it not? Why is it called a skip? It's like a giant bin, effectively. Why is it called a skip? Yep, that's the one. I've asked teachers, I've asked other educated people not to clue. No one comes back with the answer to it. Why is a skip called a skip? Where does the name come from? Yeah, well, why is it. Why is it called a skip? Because you can't think of any sort of even starting point on that, does it? All the other employments of the word skip have a completely different meaning. Skip, you're on. Okay, 1215. Let's get Barry an answer. Well, skip, starboard. And diplomatic immunity is 1215, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 19 minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. You mugged that fella right off. Does that mean. I don't even understand, Johnny. It was a perfectly good question regarding dates on products. It wasn't a question about dates on products. It was a question about. I don't know what it was about. That's why I mugged him off about candlesticks and roman numerals or something similar. Mystery out continues. Barry's in Barnhurst. Barry, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Come on, then. It's an answer to the port and larboard. Yes. The two sides of a ship. One was called starboard because it's where the steering board was, where they used to, you know, like on a viking ship where they have a large paddle on the side to steer it. Yes. Well, so they could. So steer board in a way. So they couldn't put that side to the port. So the other side was the lading board and as usual, things get slightly corrupted and it became larboard, or loading board. Oh, yeah. So that would be portside. Yeah. But of course you had rudders later on so that you didn't have a steering board, but. So either side could pull up alongside the port. But the name starts confusing. Larboard and starboard are so similar that in a gale or anything else. So people started to call it the port side, the side that you pulled up to the port, because it was traditionally that was the side. And so that's why it become. When it changed. I can't tell you. Doesn't matter. He wasn't allowed to ask that question. Oh, right. So what are your qualifications, Barry? I'm just interested in all kinds of trivia and maritime trivia in particular or. No, no. Just picked it up. Etymology. Well, it's done you enough to earn this. Thank you. 21 minutes after twelve is the time Paul's in Stanmore. Paul. Question or answer? Answer. Go on, then. This is an answer to the question about diplomatic immunity. How far does it extend? Well, strictly speaking, diplomatic immunity would apply to anything anybody does. However, if somebody does something really serious, the Foreign Office can approach the embassy or the government of that particular country and ask them to lift the diplomatic immunity, which sometimes they do. So if somebody commits murder, for example, does something really serious or is suspected of suspected murder, yes, they can approach the embassy or the government of that country, because obviously that country often doesn't want that country to be brought into distribute. But if they didn't want to, they could refuse. Absolutely. You're not talking to our cultural attache about the disappearance of that person on such and such a day because our cultural attache is a spy. Might be the private conversation going back in the embassy. So you could commit a murder with the diplomatic immunity, you could do what the other thing the government can do is they can ask for that diplomat to be removed. Yes. Even if they can't prosecute them, they can ask them to be returned. You can expel them, you can expel diplomats, that's what happens. But sometimes the government of that particular country will lift the diplomatic community so that the person can be prosecuted in this country. I thought that was probably pretty much the case, but it's nice to hear it explained so fully. What are your qualifications, Paul, I've just read about. I follow these cases, I'm interested in law, I've followed them, I've seen cases where this is happened. So it stuck. So it jumped to mind as soon as the person mentioned it. And it earned you this. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. 23 minutes after twelve. Theo, Auschwitz is back with us regarding that arrest earlier of an mp after a rape allegation was made. Theo, what's happened? Now, this is. This of course relates to the MP, Mark Pritchard, the Tory MP for the Reekin in Shropshire who's been arrested and bailed over an allegation of rape. We now have two new bits of information. Firstly, we've got a statement from Scotland Yard, and I'm quoting here, we can confirm that a 48 year old man voluntarily attended a north London police station on Tuesday, December 2, where he was arrested following an allegation of rape in central London. He has been bailed to a date in early January 2015 pending further inquiries. The second piece of information we have is a letter from Met officer Sandra Looby to the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow. And in that very, very short letter, she says, I write to inform you that on December 2, Mark Pritchard MP was arrested at 06:14 p.m. At Holborn police station in London, where by Metropolitan Police Service officers, Mister Pritchard was questioned by police and released on police bail later the same evening. Now, the reason that I mention that second letter is because it relates to the way in which this information has come out. The Met did not routinely provide the public, or the press, for that matter, information when somebody has been arrested, especially on such a sensitive allegation as rape. But it's come out from this information and that letter has come out from the speaker John Bercow. You know, listeners will know when they watch pmqs. You often see MP's waving order papers at each other as they barrack each other and heckle each other. And on the very back of those order papers there's a page entitled votes and proceedings. And number four item, arrest of a member, copy of a letter addressed to the speaker, dated the 3 December 2014 from the Metropolitan Police relating to the arrest of Mark Pritchard, member for the Rekin, to the speaker. So that's how the information has come out and that's what's being picked up and being accidentally waved around. No, no, the reason I. You know when you see the order paper. Yes, and that's the official type. Those are the official documents of. So because it's been recorded officially, it's reached the public eye and it's reached the public eye and that's why people have picked up on it and that's how it's come out. And that's come from the speaker directly. Thank you very much indeed, Theo. As I said, any more developments here? We will, we will examine in the course of the day. But it is, I hesitate to use the word only or merely or anything like that. It is an allegation which he is answering and has been bailed to answer again in January. If no proceedings are brought, if no prosecution follows. I don't know why, but I think it makes me profoundly uncomfortable that a name then is associated with a certain type of crime before any, anything close to judicial process has unfolded. It is an allegation. It's 26 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. Where are we going next, Harrow or bracknell? Harrow. Anthony. Harrow. Question or answer? Harrow. James. Hello, Harrow. Harry. Well done. Harrow. Question is, I was watching a video about Pripyat. Is it Pripyat? I don't even know if that's how you pronounce it, but Chernobyl. Yeah, like the desolated playgrounds etc. Etc. But there seems to be an abundance of trees. Why? I thought radiation kills. And why, why are the trees very green and luscious? So why aren't the trees in Chernobyl dead is the question? Yeah, pretty much, yeah. Yeah. Cool. I like that. Because you don't radiation supposed to kill everything? Yeah. Why aren't the trees in Chernobyl dead? Yeah, well the animals didn't die either, did they though? Well, no, because you've got the stories about mutations and things like that, so. Right. I don't know that it, it killed everything in it. Surely after a number of years. I mean radiation kills you over a period of time, so. Surely. But you wouldn't know if a tree had mutated. It sounds a little odd, but how would you know if a tree was deformed or not? They grow in all sorts of directions. I know that's today's accidental partridge for you. Right. If the trees, if the. So if radiation kills, you can get, you can die from radiation sickness over a period of time. So why hasn't it killed more trees? Yeah, yeah. Okay, you're on. I mean, it may be a simple answer, but it's not one that comes easily to mind. And like you, I'd be very interested in hearing it. Maybe an incredibly complicated answer. So why didn't Chernobyl kill the trees? Or why are there healthy looking trees in Chernobyl? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. You need to answer that. Let's go to Bracknell next. Neil is in Bracknell. Neil, question or answer? Yeah, hi, James, I've got an answer for you on the hallmark question. Well, hang on, you need to explain to me what the question was first. The gentleman was asking why they stamp letters onto pieces of jewelry rather than, rather than the actual date. Okay. Yes. Why they changed the surround and the font style and the letter every year. Yes, it's a two part. It's a two part answer. Go on. Firstly, if you've got stamp four letters or four numbers onto something that's very small and delicate, yes. It's going to be far more problematic than stamping a single letter on there. Of course it is, because if it's a ring, you've only got to do one little stamp. Absolutely. Second part of the answer is that hallmarks are the only single text in the world getting on for a thousand years old. And if you go back sort of 7800, they used to stamp the letter because the date used to change every year and it was different for each assay office. So one assay office might change it on the 5 January and the other one might change it on the 28 July. Okay. But going back seven or 800 years, not everybody knew when the date was, so it would change year upon year because there was, you know, you didn't have diaries like you do these days. It was only since the unification of the hallmarking act in 1975. No way is that. No way is that off the top of your head, Neil? James, I'm that sad and nerdy. This is true. The unification of the Hallmark act in 1975. I'm only joking. We have a party every year round mine. The man I used to work for was president of the National association of Goldsmiths at the time. There you go. Very, very, very nice gentleman. Fantastic. They then, since the 1 January 1975, change all hallmarks on the same day every year. And they change the font and the surround and the style of lettering on the same day every year. So it wasn't a silly question then? No, it was a bit nervous, but he could have worked it out for himself. I mean, it's just easier if you've got a wedding ring or something. You want to have a little stamp. Lovely qualifications, Neil. Obviously, you've hinted at them. 15 years in the retail jewelry. Retail jeweler's diploma. That's enough. Round of applause for Neil. Thank you. 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 33 minutes after twelve. Mystery hour continues with a dizzying array of questions. We've done quite a few, actually. We've nailed diplomatic immunity. If you missed that, download the podcast. We've nailed. Why did they change larboard to port? If you missed that, download the podcast. You can do it at LBC dot co dot uk dot. You can do it at itunes as well. Actually, we want to know why a skip is called a skip and how come all the trees in Chernobyl look so healthy. Pavs in Hounslow. Pav, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Pav. Well, what is new caller business for the last six months? Great show. I was watching the X Factor last week. Really? And Andreas, the italian singer, he's got a very, very strong italian accent. When he's once talking or giving an interview. Yes. However, when he sings, you don't hit any of the accents. I'm wondering why the world that is. Because he doesn't. Just with him. Sorry, just with him. Most regional accents disappear when you sing because you're hitting a musical note which automatically affects the cadences of. It's not the same as speech. So singing an italian actor would be just the one coronet. Oh, and a singing teacher would say, you sound silly, just sing it. No, just one Cornetto. So you don't want an accent when you're singing. It's deliberate. At the moment, he's singing songs that already exist. Obviously he has that has that advantage. But when he starts writing his own songs, whatever, then, you know, with the accent, it's just deliberate and most people with it, well, I tell you what? Pav, do me a. Do me a scottish accent now. Hey, mate, how you doing? Yeah, that was pretty good. Thing is, you can control the accent that comes out of your mouth. Some people are brilliant at it. Some people are less good. When you're singing, it's a hell of a lot easier to have no accent at all. In fact, you hardly ever hear who think of a singer with a regional accent. Yeah, see, when sting talks, he's a Geordie and he talks like this, like. But when he sings, you wouldn't know he was from Newcastle, would you? So again, it's the same question of why. Why that is. But there's no why about it. They just don't have accents when they sing. And also, you wouldn't want an accent necessarily, when you sing, because it would make their song harder to understand. I don't. Unless, again, I'm feeling a bit rude today. Unless I've misunderstood you. I don't think this is a mischief. It's just like they'll sit here wondering why that was. Some do. I mean, have you ever heard Charles as naval sing or Edith Piaf? Yeah. If you listen to them singing in English, you can tell that they're French. Yeah. And then when she does in English, I don't regret anything. So it does happen. But generally speaking, you're more likely to put off a listener if they've got. If you've got an accent than if you haven't. Look at Cheryl Curl. Cheryl, you watch it. She's still on the x factor. She is, yeah. Does she have a Geordie accent when she sings? No, she doesn't know. You see, Chas and Dave are the only ones I can think of off the top of my head whose regional accents stay in place. So I don't know if there's a why here, I'll leave it on the board. I'm not going to claim a cheeky round of applause for this, but why don't regional or national accents appear when we sing much, is the question. Yeah, that's great. All right. Nice one. Nice one, Pav. The answer is probably just because they don't. Philips in Gothsoak Philip, question or answer? It's an answer to the trees in Chernobyl. Yes. Basically, trees grow very slowly. So if you would see effects if you were looking at a shoot coming out of the ground, because it's a lot of cell division, and that's where the radiation will affect the plant itself. It will actually sort of hit the chromosomal level and make be the cell abnormal, like a cancer type thing. And that's why with humans, because we have high rates of cell division, we get hit with it. But with the tree that grows, I don't know, some of them live for, what, a thousand years? It's a very, very slow process, so it will happen, but it will take a long time before you start to see any obvious issues with the tree. So the tree takes everything in its stride. In other words, it will do. But it's just the rate of cellular division that's occurring within the actual plant itself that's the big problem. That's the benefit that the tree has a lot slower growing than we are. Course qualifications? BSc in human biology. There you go. Now, human biology. Yeah, hang on a minute. I did plants at a level and stuff, and I got fed up with looking at plants under microscopes. A bit boring. Look at humans instead. It makes perfect sense. It's only a round of applause for it. Thank you. A few people pointing out that there are other people who sing with an accent. I know there are. I wasn't suggesting for a minute that nobody does. I just said off the top of my head, I could only think of chas and Dave. But you've added the proclaimers. Grant and the black cab poet have all. Both come in, piled in with the proclaimers. Wayne has come in with a few. He says, for example, Lily Allen and Paul Weller actually sing in English. Most people sing in an american accent, don't they? Always. Here, he's on the line. Wayne, why are you sending me emails and ringing in? Because I was just about to drive off, so I thought I'd give you a call. Oh, a lucky man. But, yeah, that is the reason. If you listen to people like Paul Weller and Lily Allen and Chas and Dave, as you mentioned, they all sing purposely in an english accent. But when people have singing lessons, they're all taught to sing american. If you look at the great works of the boy band five, they all sing with an american accent. Actually, no, I wasn't going to mention this because when I said qualifications, I was going to wait until then to say, you're not allowed to say, my best mate is Scott out of five. Is that your qualification for this? Yeah, no, it's all right. And. But then why would the italian fellow on X Factor sing in a non. Because he's mimicking the songs that he. I mean, the songs that he's singing, he's mimicking the american version or the english version, which is sung in the american accent. Well, not even mimicking, but just sort of applying the same accent that the words that are the words he's heard comes out with the same sound when he sings it himself. It would be odd to listen to a song, learn it, then sing the word differently from how you heard it. Exactly. If we were to sing a french song, you would put the. You'd mimic the sound that you heard. You wouldn't try and do it in an english accent. No. Sound bizarre? No, you're absolutely right. Qualifications? My best mates in a boy band called five. Are you coming on the 14? Yes, mate. Yeah, I'll confirm. I'm gonna be on the panel. I'm not presenting it. Oh, happy days. We're mixing it up a bit. 1240 if you want. If you want to find out more about the show. I do. And that way it comes to. Can't get him out of there, actually, to be honest with you. Then just follow funny on Twitter or I'll retweet links. If you want to come along to our Christmas do. Gary's in haze. Gary, question or answer? It's an answer. Yep. Anyway, go on. Right. It's about the skip. Yes. Why is it called a skip? Why is a skip called a skip? I was told, and I was in the. I was a skip driver years, and I asked him why it was a skip and he said it's all to do with the motions of skipping. Hey, when you. With your arms. You've got two arms, right? I have. And a chain. You've got your chains, actually, you've got two chains on each side of the arms. And then you attach it to a drum or a skip, if you want to call it that. And you. We have to call it a skip. You're answering the question, why is a skip called a skip? You can't start calling it a drum. Well, it's the same as using a skipping rope. It goes up and it goes down and it's a quick form of when you're skipping. And that's with the lorry using the arm. So the skip. The lorry is the skip? Yeah, the arms and with the chain to attach it to. To. To the. Do you see what I mean? It goes back and it goes forward. Does it skips? Yeah. And that's why you said drum, because the thing that's left outside our house is not actually the skip. That's just become known as a skip because it's been delivered by a skip. That's right. It's the actual motion of the Louis, if you look at the new ones now, they've got, they've got a system now where they don't have to pull right into the your garden or anything because they can extend their arms. That's right. You know. Yeah. And pick them up. I mean. But actually I was a skip driver for a well known company for years and I actually drove roll on and roll off lorries as well. But that is what I asked. Why is it said, nothing to do with the bin. We drop it. What you drop down is a bin bin. Yes it is. That's what I said. It's a giant bin. Why is it called a skip? And the answer is the mechanics of the delivery process. It's skipping. You skip the bin onto the street. You're skipping it into the street. This is one of my favorite answers ever on mystery hour. And I had no idea because I listen to you all the time. I was let down with, with them when we had the thing about Rasha bacon. Was that you? Yes. Ah, yeah. This is ending better than that, isn't it? Well, we're rashly the thin cut. But you didn't exactly. No, you were wrong then, mate. You should. Don't start bringing up the rashers again. You went into these proverbs or italian. It's just a shaving rasher is like shaving Razaj is the shave Raza. I know, but I'm telling you that it's. What a skipping. Well, you've redeemed yourself, Gary, you've redeemed yourself. Oh, thank you. You're in. You're over the line. You skipping all the way to the applause bank. Stuart is in Bellinina, in Espana. Buenos dias, Stuart. Question or answer? Hello, how are you? Very well. What's on your mind? Actually, no, don't tell me what's on your mind. Tell me whether you've got a question or an answer. I've got a question. Yes. So when matey boy was going in the mood about the roman numerals, it kind of made me think about a date. That kind of question, it's been on my mind. So basically, why do Americans put the month before the day when they write the date? Is that a mystery? I mean, you could say, why don't we. Why do we do it the other way around? Well, everyone else does it how we do it. Do they? And the Americans do. So that sometimes you have a little bit of confusion when you see if it's lower than twelve. If it's twelve or lower on the day of month. Why don't. Why do the Americans do their own thing? I like that. What are you doing in Spain? Well, I'm just hibernating for the winter. I was working on some rock called the Isle of Wight for a while and now I'm back in Spain, which is great. So what, you're living the dream, Stuart. So you just move from one holiday destination to another as the world turns throughout the calendar year? It's all right for some. And you've plugged my land for sale while I'm on the phone? Your land? You've got some land for sale? Yeah. In London? Yeah. Anyone? No. I don't know, mate. I get into. No, you can't be doing. What sort of land is it? It's basically a plot of land in Pasco Road, hither green. That's for sale? No, like one seven six. It also auctions, definitely. You can't. For a two story, three bed house. Absolutely not. No, please don't do that. Whatever happens. All right, no worries. Thank you, Stuart. Why? There you go. It's 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on. Oh, no. Oh, you're joking. But he was so happy. Gary, mate with the skip answer for just tuning in. You're gonna have to indulge us for a moment. I don't want to do this. The man went away. So what was he like when you said. Apparently, even. Even as the producer was saying goodbye to him, he was still cheering. Why is a skip called a skip? And we thought he went to Rodney's in Hoarcross in Staffordshire. Rodney, what's going on? The actual answer is it's just a corruption of Skep. Skep? When. That's what norse danish sounds. Viking. It's norse, yeah. What? How did you know that? Old north. Honestly. Shall I tell you how I knew that? Just from the fact that that lager used to be called skull. It's got that kind of sound to. It. Sounds scandinavian. That's how my brain works. But I'm interested. I'm interested in how your brain works now. Why have you done this to Gary? Why couldn't you just leave it? I sit doing crosswords all day. I know, and I feel your pain. I'm a bit. But. I mean, did you not pick up on how happy Gary was when he went away? Yeah. No. And you. And you still dialed in to rain on his parade? Not really, no. No, you can't. I'm with you. Got. You can't leave these things unaddressed. That's how urban myths start, isn't it? We'd have people running around London all saying, do you know why skips called a skip? If you look at the actual action of the chain on the glory, it looks like a skipping action. A skept was actually a. It was a bee. I had it in a crossword once. It was a boat. Was it originally a scap, a boat of some sort? No, it's from the size, I believe it's something to do with about the size of a bush or something like that. Well, there's no two ways of doing this. I'm gonna have to take Gary's round of applause away. Apparently. He offered me a free ride in his taxi, I've just been told. Yeah, I can think of a colleague or two. We might have more need of that than I do at the moment, but I will, I will give you a round of applause as well, but I'm gonna leave Gary's where it is. Oh, fair enough, yeah, but you, you what? You. Your qualifications are doing crosswords. Interesting words. Etymology, amateur etymologist. Round of applause for Rodney. Good man. Oh, that's real. It's not the stuffing right out of me that is sending Gary away so happy. No offense to Rodney. He's got to do what he's got, man's got to do what his man's got to do. Trevor's in harrow. Trevor, question or answer? I'm hoping I've got an answer for you, James. Yes, on the dates in America. Yeah, all right. I believe it goes back to sort of pilgrim days, whereas we say the 4 December. They say December the fourth. Oh yeah, that's why. Well, I believe it's why. Anyway, is that your answer? That is my answer, yeah. It's quite weak, isn't it, Trevor? Well, it's the only one I've got and I don't think you always need a strong answer when you've got the obvious answer in front of you. Okay, mate, sorry, I'm just making conversation. Spend a lot of time in America and I had to ask myself, and they do so well, if it was linked to the Mayflower, then that means probably we used to do it the way they, they do it now, but we've changed for some reason, probably because it links to Europe. So we've probably adopted the continental european way of doing it and America has clung onto the old anglo saxon way of doing it because they took it over with them on the Mayflower and it stuck. Yeah, well, the english language is always progressing, but that's what I've been led to believe. So I'm hoping that's the answer you're looking. Or the right answer, anyway. Why do the Americans write their dates numerically in a different order from us? Answer. Because they say them in a different order from us. That's right. I like that, actually. Let's see. I'm just gonna. I'm just gonna open the door and see if any applause follows. I've got no control. I've got no control over this, Trevor. I've got my fingers crossed. Oh, oh, hang on, what happened then? They sent it semi. Right, I think. No, you gotta give him. You gotta give him all of it or none of it. You can't be faffing around like that. I'm happy now. I can go way happy. Well, don't. Don't. You know what happened to Gary? Yeah, that's true. Let that be a lesson to you, Trevor. I shall wait with baked breath. How can you? Turkeys. It's 1253. Alan's in Lakeside. Alan, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Yeah, my wife's very interested in history, and she would like to know the reign of. Why she married a relic, Alan. Yes, she married a relic. Sorry, mate. Yeah. What would the reign of William be called? Because obviously James is jacobean, Elizabeth and Victoria and blah, blah. What? The new. The next William. Yeah, William and Mary. Well, that was hannoverian, because he was William of Hanover, wasn't he? Indeed. So what will Prince William, William of Windsor, what will his range be called? William Enion. William. William. William in. William in. No, he's allowed to look at stuff on Google. People say, you're not allowed Google on this show. You can try and find your own answer, because then if you found it, you wouldn't have rung me. It's only if you hear someone else ask, answer. And then you use Google to get on with the answer that we don't like. I'll come to the oracle after Google, Willie. William. William. William. William. William. And I don't know, mate, that's a quite. It's an interesting one. Who. But will anyone know the answer? You'd have to be able to see into the future, or would it already be established? And is he going to call himself William? Because wasn't there a suggestion that Charles wasn't going to call himself King Charles? He's going to be called king something else. All right. What was the Charles era called? Caroline, Carolyn. Carolean. Yeah. You never hear that, though, do you? I think it's got more to do. I think it's got more to do with how long the rain is and how much building style changes in the course of it. So you can call something elizabethan. No one ever says we're living in the second elizabethan age, really, do they? In common parlors. But you need. But you still need a word. Just in case someone needs a word. You need a word. Carolingians, actually, to get the Latin right. Be carolingian, I think. Never did Latin. The carolingian era. Carolingian. Okay. I don't know. What will Prince Williams reign be called? What will that era be for historians of the future? Oh, three. What was William the conquerors called? We've had loads of Williams, William the conqueror, William Rufus, William of Orange. William was Hanover and orange the same William. Steve's in Hayes. Steve, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's a question, go on. My question is. Oh, you'll be lucky. It's twelve. It's 1256. Steve, mate, I phoned in at just 112 o'clock. Yeah, all right. Okay. Flippin Eck. It's quite busy, you know, we go through it as quick as we can. No, you're quite right. I'm sorry, I take that back. Thank you very much. Would you like a piece of. Would you like a drumstick? I've got a turkey drumstick going spare after the show. Any interest in that? Just by way of a peace offering? Absolutely, man. Because I've just made myself some nice soup. I'm dying to get to it. Right, sorry. All right, all right. I'm sorry. You crack on. Fantastic. More power to your elbow. Yes. Where does it come from and why? That's a good question, actually. There you go. That was worth waiting for. Well, I don't think it would have been worth waiting for, but we're not going to get over the line with an answer. I don't. I stoke quickly. I've got some phone lines free on this. If you know the answer to either of those questions. What will King William's reign be known as? The. What would the latin be? The Willingian. The willing? The williest. I was born in the 13th year of the willies. Zero. 345-606-0973 and the origins of the phrase more power to your elbow? It's quite literal. But. But why is it a phrase? Susie's in Boreham Wood. Susie, question or answer? It's an answer to either of those questions or to a different one. I haven't been listening. Sorry, I've just got my car. What? No, I mean, I was listening and then I just got out of my car to meet my friend and now I'm answering the question. Right, go on, then. It's the singing question. What have your friends got that I haven't? Just incidentally, I'm not annoyed or anything, but what have they got that I haven't got?