Why do people kiss under mistletoe? - 10 Dec 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Three minutes after twelve is a time mystery hour underway. Just a quick glance back at the dump Trump campaign in the last hour. If you're hoping to visit the set of Sherlock, BBC, one of the BBC's most popular shows, Mister Trump, bad news. One of the stars of that has just said, you won't be welcome on set either. I've retweeted that as a. As a precursor to the hour of the week, where we normally have the most fun. Although this week rarely, there's actually a bit of competition, isn't there? Given the fun that we had with dump Trump, it is your weekly opportunity to get an answer to pretty much any question under the sun. The only rules are that the question needs to be interesting to others, not just to you. So don't ask me about something that will be very, very peculiar to your curiosity. And it has to be something that is likely to have an answer that is, you know, we can't solve the mystery of life. Not by 01:00 anyway. What we can do by 01:00 is make a guarantee, a cast iron guarantee, that you will know more by then than you do now. It might not be information you're grateful for or anything like that, but you will, I promise. And you'll probably have a laugh as well. Okay, it's the whos, the whys, the whens, the wherefores, the withers, the occasional whence, any question at all. Why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's all that about? Does that have that? Does this do that? Why does that do this? Only rules are it has to be answerable and it has to be interesting. Okay, if it's repetitive, if it's something we've dealt with relatively recently, you will be politely invited to move along. But quick words. Otherwise, I've got an almost entirely new team of colleagues now. So if they're relying on my short term memory to remember what we've dealt with recently and what we haven't dealt with recently, I would suggest that swiss cheese would be an accurate description of the amount of holes that might appear in that plan, if you're familiar with it. Fine. Lines are full already, but we have to sort some wheat from chaff in the first few minutes. I mean, no offense by that. It just is the case that we will have dealt with some of these questions before, and some of them might strike you as desperately interesting, but it is only when we look at them ourselves that we would politely point out, perhaps it's not going to be interesting to anybody else. But, you know, the newspaper columns, the magazine features, the notes and queries, the Q and a. Someone writes in with a question and then somebody else writes in with the answer. Here we do it all a little bit quicker than that. If you hear someone ask a question to which you do know the answer, then the number remains the same. You're not allowed to look it up. Some of the questions you hear will be answerable by consulting encyclopedias or Google or something like that. That's not the point. Okay? We're having too much fun over the years to allow anybody to look stuff up. If you've looked it up in the past, if you've read a book and learnt it from a book, if you've seen it on the telly, that's fine, but you need to know the answer as you hear it. Okay? Zero 345-606-0973 the number if you have a question, and indeed the number if you have an answer. I don't want to overdo the rules, actually. This is, I mean, pretty free for all, to be honest with you, but just with those little caveats about repetition and about dullness and about consulting works of reference, if you're trying to answer somebody else's question, the time now is six minutes after twelve. You're listening to mistrial with me, James O'Brien. Let's go. Larry's in Enfield. Larry, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Hi, James. My question is my name is Larry. And why am I so happy? When, where does it come from? How old are you? 58. You've reached the age of 58 without knowing the origin of the phrase happy as Larry. Well, it's not Larry the lamb, is it? I wouldn't have thought so. Have you tried hard to find it out? Because if you've tried to find it out, it's unlikely we're going to nail it now. Okay, well, a friend of mine said to me, why are you so happy? And I said, well, I don't know. Because I'm supposed to be happy, but I'm not. I know, I know. I just said 58 years. If we can solve it in 43 minutes, I think, I think we deserve a pat on the back. Why happy as Larry? What's Larry got to be so happy about? Are you quite a happy character, Larry? No. Oh, well, that was illustrative seven minutes after twelve is the time. Miserable Larry wants to know why everyone expects him to be happy. Robert's on the M 25. Question or answer Robert a question. James. Hello, James? Yes. Go, go. I'm here, mate. Go on. All right. My friend, years ago, that if you put a wooden spoon across boiling pasta, the water will never overflow the pots. It's true. It never does. It's true. It never does. Why is that? That's a good question, actually. I don't know whether we've dealt with it before, but as I said, the bar for that is going to be set quite low today. What's the science of a wooden Swiss? True this. You've got a pot of pasta on a rolling boil. You know that eventually it will overflow if you put a wooden spoon across the top of the pan. It won't. Why not? Zero. 345-606-0973 and what is the origin of the phrase happy as Larry? If you were quite miserable, and I'm sure Larry was being a little bit sort of tongue in cheek when he described himself as unhappy, but if you were a bit of a grump, if you were quite miserable and you were called Larry, it would be a very cruel twist of fate. Margaret is in. No, she isn't. Where are we going? But she's dropped off. Phone lines are open. As I bid farewell to one person, it frees up another for you. Of course, the number remains the same throughout the hour. If you can answer the two questions we've already had, or if you have a question of your own, zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Dan's in Houston. Dan, question or answer? Question, please carry on. I was reading in a magazine the other day that a car had 270 hp. Yeah. And I was wondering, does that mean it's, you know, it's got enough strength, so it's the equivalent of being towed by 270 horses? Yeah. And if it is that, then are there other vehicles that are labeled as having horsepower, like motorbikes or boats or. And when did it originate? Well, I. Hang on. Just. You're only allowed one question, mate. So let's start again. What's your question? What does horsepower mean? Okay. Why horsepower? When they invented steam engines. Yeah. They replaced horses. Yeah. So when be James. What wouldn't it say again? Would it be James Watt? Probably, I think. James what? James Watts. When. When he worked on sort of piston engines and steam engines, you would have used James Watt. W a t t. Shall I shut up now? And what? Should I shut up now and wait till an expert rings in? Yeah, I think so. All right, then. So, horsepower. Why zero? 345-606-0973 Margaret is in Woolwich. Margaret, question or answer? Question, please. Yes. Why are there pockets of worms in the sea at Westgate in Kent, near Margate. It's very specific. Yes, sewage. No, it's not. I don't think so. It is. Is it really? Yeah. Well, she's disappearing. Okay. No, I'm teasing you. I don't think it is sewage. I don't want to put you off your swimming. Seriously. Be underwater geezers. I don't. Oh, really? Underwater geezers like Jack Cousteau? I don't think so. Nothing? No. What would you like? Hot springs. Hot springs? Just an appalling phone line. So amateurish, your contribution. Why are there warm pockets of water when you're swimming in the sea off Westgate in Kent? Yes. You can either be wading in the sea or swimming. You can feel it. But why are we being specific? Specific to Westgate in Kent. I felt warm pockets of water in all manner of oceans. Been responsible for a few. All right. No, okay. I think you'll find it's underwater geysers. It's eleven minutes after twelve. Paul is in queue. Question or answer? Paul. That's an answer. Carry on, mate. Happy is Larry. It was a boxer. I'm not sure if he's australian or from New Zealand, but it was back in the 1890s and his name was Larry Foley and he won a fight. And the headline the next day was happy as Larry. That's where it comes from. Qualifications? Mine. Yeah. I can't remember how I know it. You remember his surname, Foley? Yeah. I mean, that's a strong play. No, I like boxing, but someone told me that about two years ago and. Yeah, that's what it was. It's a brilliant answer. It's got detail with the Larry Foley, but the absolute absence of credentials or qualifications just makes me a little reluctant to give you the round of applause, Paul. You think I googled it, don't you? I would never, ever accuse you of deceit on that level, my friend. It's the fact you can remember the surname, but you can't remember where you heard it. That just. I don't know. I smell a sort of small rodent. Yeah, I can't remember where it was, but quick, quick show of hands. Wait there. Quick show of hands. Do we trust Paul? Does Paul sound? Sound. Oh, blimey. Right. Axel's not convinced. Paul. I phoned in within about 10 seconds of the guy called. Did you? Did he, did he phone in? Did he phone in really, really quickly? Jess, was he on the phone really quickly? Apparently he was. That works in his favor. Axel, go on, mate, go and do your work. There you go, Paul. Better be true. I'm going to be furious if it's not. David's in Lewisham. David, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Who first put a candle on a cake and called it a birthday cake? Your deadpan delivery has added a whole heap of nuance to that question. Who first put a candle on a cake and called it a birthday cake? Candle on a cake. Why do you want it? I like that a lot. Why do you want to know? Why not? Yeah, yeah. It's a proper mystery that Prince Albert was responsible for quite a lot of innovations, but I don't know that the birthday cake was one of them. It'll be american, won't it? Probably. We don't know, do we? It couldn't have come from the Trump family, could it, by any chance? I think it's unlikely, although there will be many cake makers across the country preparing to ban Mister Trump from touching their buns. Why do. Who put. Yeah, who invented the birthday cake? Who put a candle on a cake and called it a birthday cake? That's a lovely question. Why are there warm pockets of water if you go swimming? Remember when I said, if it's only of interest to you, it may not get on board? The reason Margaret crept through the net was because we thought she was going to ask what warm pockets of water are when you're swimming. We didn't realise she was going to be very specific to about 500 coastline just off Kent. But, hey, she's on the board now. Why? Horsepower. What's the. What is the horse power? What does it mean? Why does a wooden spoon placed over a boiling pan of water stop the water from boiling over? And I think, well, we've gone in on Happier's Larry, that better be true. Jason is on the. Actually, I'll come to you first after the travel news. Jason, I promise you. We've got a few questions that need answers there. If you can answer any of those, or if you've got one of your own, you know what to do. It's 10, 14. 20 minutes. Oh, that was a little abrupt. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to mystery hour on LBC with me, James O'Brien. Questions that currently need answers. I love this one. I know we did. Happy as Larry. I told you I told you at the outset that we are now a new team. It's a bright new world on this program, joined by three colleagues, all under the age of 30, all relatively new on the show. So the likelihood of us being able to remember whether we've dealt some, dealt with a question relatively recently, is dependent entirely upon my short term memory. So it should come as no surprise to you that a couple of the questions that we've already allowed through have been recently answered. And don't get cross about it, for heaven's sake. The happy as Larry one is even in the LBC archive. There's about 4 million of you have tweeted or text to show me. So there you go. It's an excuse to plug the archive. Anyway, LBC dot co dot Uk. Why does a wooden spoon present prevent your pasta water from boiling over? What is horsepower? What's it got to do with horses specifically? I kind of hate that because it was tip of the tongue, but it's gone completely now. What are the warm pockets of water when you're swimming in the sea off the coast of Kent, around the west gate area? And who put a candle on a cake first and called it a birthday cake? I love that one. Jason is in Brentwood. Jason, question or answer? Question, please don't carry on. I wondered if animals have rhythm. Like when you hear a song that you like, you feel the urge to dance. I wondered if animals were the same things. Why are you asking? Well, my little girl asked, is the cat. She was playing with a cat last night. Yeah. I said, well, I laugh. I love that because this is the only time it's ever happened to me. I don't normally look at such things, but someone showed me a cat video. Was I at work? Was it here? Was it yesterday? The cat with the music, with the dance music? Yes, it was. I told you I was working with young people, didn't I? Jason? I've never looked at a cat video off the Internet before in my life. But there's one of a chapter with his cat listening to music and they're both nodding their head and the rhythm actually changes and the cat. Cat changes its nod. But I was a little concerned that the man might have been doing something to the cat to make the nod happen, rather than the cat responding naturally and intuitively to the rhythm of the music. So we need to find out. We need to find out cats in particular, but animals in general. Yeah, I like it. The cats have rhythm, this cat does. 22 minutes after twelve is the time that was the sound of a middle aged man. Colin is in Bournemouth. Colin, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Colin. It's the wooden spoon one, is it? It's because the. Yeah, the bubbles of the water hit the spoon and they can then turn back into water. So then it stops, obviously, all the bubbles grating and boiling over, doesn't it? Well, why doesn't it boil over the sides of the spoon? Because the spoon's disrupting all the bubbles so they can't get. So it's almost like a platform of bubbles, rises slowly. Yeah. And the spoon, where it's not as hot as the water or it doesn't conduct heat as quickly as, like a metal spoon. That's why you use a wooden one. So the spoon pops all the bubbles. It's quite obvious. Now, you put it like that, you're gonna get your round of applause. I don't want to sound ungrateful, but of course it's got. What else could it be? Magic. Well, exactly that, yeah. Round of qualifications, Colin. It will. I've tried it and figured it out. But also if the spoon does get hot enough, it won't work and it gets completely wet, then the pan will still boil over. Oh, really? If you. So if you leave it for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours. Not necessarily hours, but, yeah, it will eventually. When the spoon's very wet and hot. I love it. It will just boil over. Anyway, round of applause for Colin. Yeah. There exists. It pops the bubbles. Fairly straightforward. Cam's in Canary Wharf. Cam. Question or answer? Cam? Carl. It's a question. Question. What? So, Khan. Yeah, Carl. C a R l. We've got you down as Cam. Ah. Oh, well, doesn't matter anyway. First time call. A great show. Just wanted to know, when does a pond become a lake? At what size? When does a puddle become a pond? Carl, this is it. When does the stone become a rock? You know, when does a pebble become a stone? These are the great mysteries of our time. These are. These are the reasons why mystery hour was started. Losing sleep? Yeah, you're losing sleep. When does it. When does a pond become a lake? I like that a lot. Is a lake naturally occurring and a pond is dug? Don't ask me. No, I won't. Alright, so maybe I'm just pointing out it may be an unexpected answer. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you've got it. Phil's in Leicestershire. Phil, question or answer, mate? It's horsepower. Yes, well, it was James Watt, actually, because when trying to sell his first ever steam engines to the coal mines, as antenn mines, as a pumping device, he needed to be able to give them a comparison of something. And so he worked out what. He worked out the effort supplied by a draft horse to pull a certain amount of weight in a coal, or whatever it was, over a certain distance in a minute. And he then said that that effort was equal to 1 hp. This was James Watt. James Watt, yeah. Do you know, I only got this about four months ago because I went to the National Coal Mining museum in Yorkshire, and fantastic. All sorts of things learned in there. And also brake horsepower. People get confused with brake horsepower. So he's producing. He's saying the horse provides that much effort over a certain distance to move a certain weight. Now, my engines can do more than that because mine are 4 hp or 5 hp. What's a watt? What's a watt? Sorry. It's all gonna be marks brothers. Well, what is a watt, though? Because horsepower is 400 odd watts, isn't it? Or 1 hp. Yes. Well, yeah, then we get into jewels and watts and foot pounds and all sorts, aren't we? Brake horsepower is more interesting. I've actually seen that being measured. I was at an engine place in Bristol not so very long ago, and there were. You get around that. You know what? I know, I know. You are lorry driver. You do know. But I've seen them. An engine in a frame, and the engine was turning a flywheel, and then the applied brake to the flywheel and the amount of effort required by the brake to stall the engine at a given revolution provides the brake horsepower that that engine is giving out. And I didn't know. That was fascinating, watching that happening. That is fascinating. Where's the coal mining museum? It's near Barnsley. It's just off the m one. It's fascinating because you can go underground. You know, they take you down and you're underground for over an hour in a lift. You go down in a lift. It's not just a lift. You actually go down in the old fashioned cage. Miners would go down. Well, it's James, right? You need to go take the girls, because they get. You go in and they shut the door. But as you're going down, the miners mine frighten the little one. That's a long way down. It's. No, hang on. It did say 90 meters. Of course, it's not going to frighten anyone, but, yeah, you see the walls of the shaft passing the crisscrossy door thing. And of course, you have to wear a helmet and you have a lamp and the guys that take you down there. Absolutely brilliant. If anybody's listening and want to do something next summer, go to the Yorkshire Coal Mining Museum. It's fascinating. Well, you're on. And in fact, there's been some brilliant articles recently about the end of deep coal mining in this country. The final deep coal mine closed this week. Daniel Rustin wrote a brilliant piece in the Guardian that if you like that sort of thing, Phil, you should dig it out. It's 27 minutes after twelve. Round of applause for Phil. Henry's been in touch to just embellish that answer. 746 watts equals 1 hp. But the question was, what is horsepower? So, although I'm grateful for that information, it's an embellishment to Phil's answer rather than a challenge to it. 28 minutes after twelve. As I bid farewell to Phil, it frees up a phone line for you, but you have to be quick. Zero. 345-606-0973 do animals have rhythm? Who was the first person to put a candle on a cake and call it a birthday cake? Horsepower. We've done. At what point does a pond become a lake? And indeed, what are the warm pockets of water in the sea? Ideally, you'd be specific to the coastline just off Westgate, but I think the answer will probably hold for all bodies of sea water. Alan is in Ashford. Alan, question or answer? It is an answer. Good man, sir. Carry on. Pockets of water. Warm ones. And you can have cold ones as well? Actually. Yes, you can. They're called thermoclines and they can occur in any body of water, be it a lake, seas, anything coast, and it's obviously just where the sun has warmed up. We're talking about the warm ones at the moment. They've warmed up the surface temperature and during the movement of water becomes pockets of it, so you end up with pockets of warm. And likewise, in lakes and ponds or stuff like that, you can get the cold coming up from the bottom that then meets. Meets the actual warmer. So it's just. You just make. We're thinking of water as a homogeneous body when it's nothing of the sort. It's. It's loads and loads of different. Yes, pockets of water. They just. Yeah, just pockets. You can actually swim through them and fill one into another. Into another. So has it got nothing to do with on. Has it got nothing to do with underwater geysers? No, no, we're not really, because you're not gonna have an underwater geezer in a lake in the middle of Kent, because that's where I've experienced a lot of them. So what are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? I'm a scuba diver. So you are an underwater geezer? Yeah, basically, yeah. Come on, Alan. That's got to be good for a giggle. Oh, that was a good one. Hey, come on. Honestly, I don't know why I bother. I know. I'm here all weekend as well. You watch scuba diving? Yeah. That's a good idea. My partner's a diver as well. Both do it. You can actually. There's many a lake that I've been in where it's been lovely. You're at a certain temperature and it always is nice. You drop down a couple of meters. A place called bobster keys. They've got an airplane down there. And you literally just 2 meters off the aeroplane. It was freezing. Absolutely. You could feel the difference. Come up 2 meters. Lovely. Back to how it was again. And it does the same in warm and cold. You, sir, have earned yourself this. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. You're my favorite underwater geezer. It's 10:30. Twelve. With James O'Brien on LBC 1236 is the time. Questions still in search of answers. Are, do animals have rhythm? Cats in particular, if any. Film directors are waiting for their musical scores to be delivered today. And they've put their task in the hands of the esteemed composer David Arnold. I suggest he might be a little bit late delivering because Thursday seemed to involve him tuning into mystery hour. He said, animals definitely have rhythm in Disney films. Yeah. Ooh, doopie doo. And when does a pond become a lake? We would need to know that as well. Candles on a cake pond becoming lake. And do cats have rhythm? Who put a candle on a cake first and called it a birthday cake? Which means we've got room for more questions as well. I don't think we've missed any off there. If we have, I'm sure you'll remind me. Mike Heathrow. Mike. Question or answer? It's a question, James. And it strikes fear into all children at this time of year, especially when Bristol, the Auntie Mary walks through the door. Why do we kiss underneath the mistletoe? I think this is one of the things that has nothing to do with christian festivals. It's one of the hangovers that we celebrate at Christmas from the. From the pagan times. And I think it. Doesn't it not have some sort of fertility relevance or something like that? I don't know. Are you guessing? I know I. I'm waiting for enlightenment or are you googling as we speak? Could you imagine if I was the shame that would fall upon mystery hour? No, I'd. Sometimes I start talking. You must have noticed this by now, Mike. Sometimes I start talking without quite knowing where I'm going, in the hope that before I finish talking, I'll have worked out where I was planning to go when I started talking. We've all. We've all noticed that. It's not happening here, though, is it? So there you go. Why do we kiss under the missile? So I like that. And do you have it in your house? I will do, yeah. Even with Bristol, the auntie Mary on the way? Well, I had to put up with it, so my children have got us up to the same way, haven't they? Yes. I like that attitude. It's 1238 is the time. I'm looking forward to the days when my children are going to be absolutely mortified with embarrassment at my antics. They're still young enough to find it funny. Just you weight, girls. Adam's in Anfield. Adam, question or answer the question, please, James, carry on. I'm very curious to know why they refer to the zip at the front of your trousers as the flies. The flies aren't the zip. Yeah, the flies are the two flaps. If you like that, the zip puts together. Are they? Yes. So they're like wings on each side and then you zip them up and they're not. They're not separated anymore. And you get the same thing on the side of stages. They're called the flies. Sometimes I'm just chuntering again onto Adam. Yeah, it doesn't sound right. No, nor me. Actually. This is an awful week for mystery hours because I put so much effort into the dump trump in the last hour. All my sort of sense of mischief and comedy got used up then. I'm an empty vessel, Adam. I'm a spent force. Well, I've been trying to get on for a couple of months with this question and within 15 seconds of putting it to your producer, I thought I might have come up with an answer, so. Oh, go on, then. What was that, then? Well, flying low. Flying low? No, no, no. Flies must have come before flying low. Do you think? Yeah. Okay, let's see what we can do with that. So why do we call it the flies? It's got something to do with curtains. But be careful when you're answering that question, Adam. Thank you. Charlie's in Thamesme. Charlie, question or answer? Hello, James. You can answer. Carry on, Charlie. It's regarding the ponds and the lakes. Oh, yeah. What's the difference? Well, there's a complete difference between the two, as far as I've always been aware, and that's the pond. This naturally just occurs because of the water table in an area. Like, you dig a hole and it would just naturally fill up, whereas a lake is fed by a stream. So if you go to a lake, it's got an inlet, a stream flowing into it, then you've got the body of water and then you've got an outlet and the stream carries on. Qualifications? Um, just a fisherman, really. So I've always been interested in lakes and ponds. I like that a lot. I think that's a great answer. What's a reservoir, then? Um, a reservoir is a man made pond. Well, no, because it's fed, isn't it? Reservoirs are fed by water that comes. Of course they are. So it's a man made lake. So a naturally occurring lake is a lake and a man made lake is a reservoir. Yeah. And a pond is something that has no inlets or outlets. No, that's it, mate. You've nailed it. I do hope so, because it's my first time I've had a bad answer. Well, hang on, let's see. Hang on, I'll press the button. Let's see what happens. Oh, get in. Happy fishing, Charlie. Paul's in Croydon. Paul, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Paul. Right, I've got two events for you. Yes. The great train robbery. Yeah. And the Hatton Garden heist. Yeah. What's the difference between a robbery and a heist? Well, have I had any applause yet today? All right. There isn't really any difference between it. I mean, a heist is just a big robbery undertaken by a gang. So the great train robbery was a heist. Yeah, but it was quite big, wasn't it? Yeah, it was a heist. It was a heist. They just called it the great train robbery. It just looks better on a front page than the great train heist. And a hat and. Yeah, Hatton Garden heist. It's alliteration. It's just headline writers. Hgh looks, you know. Hatton garden heist, great train heist. Now, great train robbery. Oh, I like that. Brinksmat robbery. Brinksmat heist. No, well, the robbery would be the removal of the goods, wouldn't it? The heist would be the whole operation, if you want to get really technical about it. But if it involves a gang and it involves a large scale theft and planning, it's a heist. Planning is the key. So the great train robbery will be a heist. That and garden thing will be a heist. Brinksmat will be a heist. A robbery that is not a heist would either involve a very small number of people doing it or no planning whatsoever. I'm taking the round of applause on this whether you like it or not, Paul, so you're welcome to come back with quibbles and questions now. But just so you know, we are heading towards to applause on this. Are you done it again? Can you bind your own? Applause? All right, well, I don't sound so downcast about it, Paul. See, I promise you the Hatton garden heist was a robbery and the great train robbery was a heist. Okay, buddy, that's cool. Thank you. Thank you, buddy. Paul, thank you. 1242. If I've got that wrong, I'll eat humble pie. Anthony's in Battersea. Question or answer? Anthony? An answer. Bring it on. I'm trying to say with lots of confidence, yes, it's not working for me today, so good luck. The mistletoe, definitely to do ancient pagan fertility rights to do with barren. Because it's a parasite in a tree. Mistletoe grows in the tree? Tree. It's not part of the tree, it's a parasite of the tree. And it's something to do with that and the berries and bearing winter and all that sort of thing. But the rest has got lust in the midst of time. So fertility, because it's still in bloom when the rest of the tree isn't. You can still pick. Yeah, definitely. Qualifications. I mean, just even vaguely. I gave you that video about fertility. I don't know if you saw it or not. You gave me a video about fertility. What sort of a pervert are you? No, we talk about male fertility issues. Oh, the grown up fertility issues. I thought I'm getting mixed up with toys and panties up in. I didn't know lots about things like that at one time. I remember reading the. Go on then. 1244 is the time. There's some breaking news that Donald Trump's mooted visit to Israel has been called off. I'm just waiting to find out whether Benjamin Netanyahu has joined the hashtag dumptrump campaign that was launched on this program in the last hour, or whether Donald Trump has offered up an alternative reason for calling off his mooted. His plan, his scheduled visit to Israel. 1244 is the time Robert is in Surrey. Robert, question or answer? I've got an answer. Carry on, Robert. Robbery and heist. Question. Oh, basically, I mean, heist is an americanism. The difference. I think you're trying to get to the difference between a robbery and a burglary. No, because. No, no, no. The difference between a robbery and a heist. And the answer is there isn't one. Well, a robbery, the definition of a robbery is a theft without. With violence or threat of violence against the person. So a gang, or. I suppose one person could pull that off. So the brinks. Brinks met. Sorry, the safety deposit place. Oh, yeah. Which is unoccupied. Couldn't. Couldn't be a robbery. Must be a burglary. That is a brilliant answer. I mean, because I thought you were barking up the wrong tree when you started talking about burglary. So if it's. If there's no threat of violence, it's. It can't be a robbery. No. And a burglary is when you're on premises of their trespass. So the great train robbery because the great train robbery was a robbery because they hit the driver over there, didn't they? Whereas the Hatton garden heist didn't involve any. Well, I'm an idiot. I shouldn't have given myself a round of applause on that. I knew it as I did it, that it was going to come back to bite me on the bum. Hang on a minute. What are your qualifications? Ex police officer. Flipping it. All right. Okay. You enjoy the travel news while I eat humble pie. 1251 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC Mystery. I continued. I continued. Tell you. Actually, we've got eight minutes left, but I've got room for more questions on this, so if you've been trying to get through and failing, I just sort of took my off the board a little bit, forgot to tell you and you could grab a birth. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. You need questions that still need answers. We're not going to. We need a birthday cake. Someone must know when people first put candles on cakes and called it a birthday cake. That cannot be a mystery that's lost in the mists of time. If you know the answer that even if you've never found a radio station before in your life, book your answer now. Who would be able to tell us? Who would have the qualifications to tell us definitively whether or not animals have rhythm? I think it's probably enough to have a dog that has rhythm. Or is it? Because then you'd struggle to prove it. Maybe you need to be a vet or some form of scientist. Speaking of scientists, nothing has tickled Professor Hal's fancy this week, which suggests that the questions haven't been scaling dizzy heights of scientific inquiry. We've done the mistletoe, we've done the pond and the lake. We've done the heist. So all we've got is the candle on the cake and the animals with rhythm. Oh, and the flies. Why do we call that zip and our trouser legs? Flies Havel is in Norbury. Havel. Question or answer? Good afternoon. I've got an answer for the flies and the zip. Really? Go on. Yes, it's actually a Cockney rhyme. Fly tip rhymes with zip. And I'm certain about that because one of your Cockney listeners answered that on mystery hour. That little warning I did at the top of the show this week about having new colleagues and my short term memory not being what it used to be. It's come back to haunt me a bit. That have all, hasn't it? It looks like it. Are you sure that we went definitive on that? We went definitive and he got a round of applause for it. Your honesty does you credit. It really does. Fly tip flies. Fly tip. Fly tip zip. Why don't we call any other tip zip flies then? You never call the zip on your, on your coat, your flies. Do up your flies. Or only the zip on the trousers? I don't know. We have to ask the Cockney listeners. Cockney listeners. Where are you from? Well, I'm Kurdish. I love the idea. I love, I love the fact that a Kurd has rung up mystery hour to answer a question based on cockney rhyming slang. That's the sort of thing. That's the sort of thing that makes Donald Trump's hair fall out. Havel. Exactly. Although I suppose he'd probably be grateful. Round of applause for Havel. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas to you too, sir. Please don't everybody do that. Martin's in Epping. Martin, question or answer? It's a question, James. Yes. I was watching Blackadder the other night and he was stuttering in parts, and I wondered, if you speak in a foreign language and you have a stutter in English, will you stutter in the foreign language? I like that question. I mean, it would treat it respectfully, obviously, but when I was at school, there was a lad with a very, very pronounced stutter, and the headmaster, who was a bit of a brute in many ways, but with this lad, he had a really nice way about him, and he'd get the lad to stand up and sing his answer to questions in class. And if he was singing, his stutter disappeared when he was speaking. That was on television. I saw that. Was it as well. It happened in my school years and years ago. If you relax, I guess it might be different for everybody. Why would you be more relaxed speaking a foreign language than you were speaking your own? I don't know. It's just a mystery. Let's see what we can do. If you have a stutter and you learn a foreign language, does the stutter translate to the foreign language? And if Martin and I are unwittingly being a little bit unsympathetic about people with stutters, then we're both sorry. I don't think we are. But I just mention that because it seems sometimes the country's turning into a place where you're discouraged from being considerate or compassionate in any way. You have to say sorry for everything. No, you don't. You just don't be deliberately horrible. And if you think you might have just been accidentally horrible, just. Just say sorry. It's not difficult. Donald. Karen's in Woodford Green. Karen. Question or answer? It's an answer to whether animals have rhythm. Yes. Go on, then. They do, actually. That's not enough. I'm going to need more than that. Yeah. Example. So, example would be snakes. Snakes can't hear, so they don't have visible ears, actually, or they don't hear sound. And if you. And if you know that snakes actually dance to the tunes of snake charmers, they do. They're actually not dancing to the tune. They're actually not dancing to the tune, but they're actually dancing to the movement of the flute in front of them. And hence the rhythm. The movement of what in front of them? The flute. You know, the snake charmer's flute. Oh, are they hypnotized by the visual rather than. Well, is that rit. That's not rhythm, though. They don't rhythm. They're dancing the rhythm of the movement of the flute. Yeah, but they're just copying us. Like saying a mirror has rhythm. Well, they dance in a rhythm to the snake charmer. No, mate, it's not going to work. Because if the snake charmer wasn't moving rhythmically, the snake wouldn't be copying the rhythmic move. But what happens if the snake charmer starts moving around randomly waving his flute around? I could do it with my cat and a torch. My cat will follow the laser on the carpet or something like that. Or if I've got a dangly toy. If I did it rhythmically, then the cat would be moving left to right, rhythmically. But that's not proof that the cat has rhythm, Karen? Well, the cat can actually move to your sound and to actions. I'm saying snakes prove that they actually have the sense of rhythm, that they can move in a particular. It's not a sense of rhythm if they're just copying the snake charmer. Okay, well, I will leave that to you. I feel bad now. I just. I just shouted at you and all you've done is you've been. Can I give you half a round of applause? I'll take that. All right. Practically the whole lot there. Helen's in Tunbridge Wells. Helen, question or answer? Hello, James. Hello, Helen. Hello. It's an answer, James. Yes. The stuttering question. Yes. Want to be pedantic? In the UK, we tend to call it stammering. Of course we do. Yes. But that's fine. Either is good. It depends what your trigger factors for stammering are. And so for some people, they have underlying it, they have a stammer, but if they are talking particularly quickly, it gets worse and it's more noticeable. So, effectively, if you're using and learning a foreign language, you may be naturally slowing down, thinking things through a bit more. And so you may be more fluent and as you become more confident in a foreign language, your stammer may become more pronounced. But equally, you can just have a real issue around confidence and anxiety and finding the right words and more language based difficulties of stammering. And if that's the case, the foreign language might be even more challenging because you're having to organise your language as well as cope with the demands of stammer. So it would. Yeah, go on. There isn't really a set pattern. It will be different from one person to the next. But generally, I would say most people who are learning a foreign language because the language is naturally more simple and less complex in the way you're constructing sentences, you're more likely to be a little bit more fluent, but it's not that you don't stammer in it. Qualifications? Wow. I'm a speech and language therapist. Kind of figured that, actually. Would you be able to help George Osborne develop a deeper voice? Oh, is that not your thing? Well, it would come under our remit. Well, it would help, wouldn't it? Yes, with some techniques. What help do I need? Oh, no, you're amazing. You don't need any help. I speech that because sometimes my mum gets cross. I don't. You know, I don't think she feels she got her money's worth from private school. No, no, it wouldn't do anything. Wouldn't change you. No. Sound any posher, Helen? Round of applause for Helen, please. Professor. How's it. We've only got 4 seconds. Hal. Do your worst. Snake charmers tap their feet, which is why the snakes moves and cockatiels dance to heavy metal on facebook. With rhythm? Yes, with rhythm. Go on, then. And there's a great film of a nodding cat. Professor Halley is a professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. You wouldn't necessarily think it from that answer, but trust me, he really is. That's it from me for another day. I am James O'Brien. Hashtag dumptrump is up and running. Sheila Fogarty is next.