Where do birds go to die?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time, and I'm just hearing that Vladimir Putin has agreed to stop bombing Ukraine until Pretty Patel's new visa application scheme is up and ready. Aren't you? I'm only joking. Kids still sleeping in cars, people still desperate. They're trying to find refuge in asylum. But we might be ready by Tuesday to make things a tiny bit easier than they currently are and will still be the worst in the whole of Europe. But hey ho, on we go. It's three minutes after it's Thursday, and you can tell by the cheery music in the background that the mood is about to change rather markedly. It's time for mystery hour, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you're not familiar with this feature, if you join us for the grown up stuff, I hope and believe that you're in for a pleasant surprise. Although you may be alienated by the immaturity and frivolity that follows, I can assure you that come 01:00 today, normal service will be resumed and Sheila Fogarty will be steering you back into the major issues of the moment. But for now, we are having a bit of fun. What happens is this. You ring in with a question and the question is put on the metaphorical board. It's a who, why, what, where, when, a whither, whether, even the occasional wherefore. Whatever your question may be, as long as it's not silly or boring, you ring in with a question. Somebody listening to the program hears you ask your question and thinks, oh, I think I know the answer to that. And they then ring in with the answer. At which point, having listened to the alleged answer, I ask them what their qualifications are and they reveal the reason why they know the thing, what they know. And it doesn't have to be that you have a PhD in astrophysics. It could simply be that you saw it on the telly last night, but it might be that you have a PhD in astrophysics. It might also be, somewhat embarrassingly, that you know the answer to the question that's been asked because you bought the mystery hour board game for Christmas, have played it. And the question that I have forgotten the answer to, or forgotten even that it had ever been asked, actually features in the new ish mystery hour board game that's available from Mysteryhour dot co dot UK dot. That also counts as a qualification. I'm just highlighting how low the bar is, really because you don't need to. Anyway, I've now highlighted how low the bar is. If your qualifications turn out to be truly exceptional. If, in other words, it is almost beyond belief that somebody with your qualifications was listening to this modest radio entertainment at this precise moment when that exact question was asked. If, in other words, at least five planets align in the contribution you make to the program, then you may receive the highest offer. And we've been quite stingy. We haven't had one for a while, have we? Did we have any last week? I can't remember. We've been quite stingy with them lately. You will receive a Ray Liotta, which is not an aquatic mammal that lives in an Essex town, it's a Hollywood star. It just depends where you put the pause. Ray Leota, not Rayleigh otter. All right? It's a bit of an in joke. Maybe you had to be there. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Should we crack on? I think we should. We're good to go. Okay. I stress again. Back, back into the deep end. Come 01:00 today. Natalie's in. Steven is. Natalie. Question or answer? Question, please carry on, Natalie. So I want to know, is our sense of taste and smell hereditary? Why'd you ask? Well, I can't stand the smell of oranges, let alone the taste. Really? And I found out. Yeah, can't be anywhere near him. How weird. But I found out that my great nan, my mum, told me. Yeah, that when she used to visit when my mum was younger. So. Your mum's nan, they weren't allowed any oranges in the house. So your mum's nan hated the smell of oranges and you hate the smell of oranges as well? Well, that. I mean, it's either a remarkable coincidence or you've answered your own question, haven't you? Oh, find out. It skipped two generations. It doesn't affect your nan or your mum? No, just your mum's nan and you. Correct. Oh, I love that. I wonder if there's a reason for it. Because some people can't eat coriander. Did you know that? No, I didn't. Some people, it's about 20% of the population. I think it might be lower. The coriander tastes in their mouths like something rank and horrible, whereas for other people it's a relatively innocuous herb. So it might be something like that. There might be some sort of genetic reaction to oranges that can skip a generation. But I can't wait to find out. Natalie. I can't wait, either. Let's get it on the board. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. The general question about the sense of taste and smell or the specifics of a revulsion regarding oranges is probably easier to answer because you clearly don't inherit entirely the palate of your parents, otherwise my kids would be living on kebabs and curry and they're fond of neither. Seven minutes after twelve is a time. Jake's in Highgate. Jake, question or answer? It's a question, James, carry on. Fantastic. So I was wondering, what is the oldest language still currently spoken today? And you, by spoken you mean as in not like some recondite? Yeah, not like university academic can speak it, but like a country, would it have to be the lingua franca in a population? I was thinking something like maybe Hebrew or something like that. Maybe, but honestly I don't know enough to comment on that. I mean, is Hebrew that's spoken now the same as biblical Hebrew or is it like Greek? Is there a big difference between modern Greek and Asian? Well, that's the other kind of caveat, isn't it? You know, is it, is it that it evolved and it's no longer really the language that it started out, or is it still. It has to be. It has to be that if you had a DeLorean sports car with a flux capacitor and you got into it and started speaking that language. Yeah, back when at first that you'd have to be able to be understood, wouldn't you? Yeah. You still have the gift of the gab, so to speak. You might not have the gift of the gab, but you'd be able to be understood. Let's not, let's not denigrate the gift of the gab, Jake, it keeps my kids shoes. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. What's the oldest language still spoken? And do you inherit any of your sense of taste or smell? In other words, does Natalie's repulsion at the very sniff of an orange, does the fact that her great grandmother was the same, does that have a genetic explanation, a genetic justification? John's in Dundee. John, question or answer? It's a question, James, carry on, John, why is 999 emergency number? I believe the first 999 was introduced in like the 1930s. Back then the telephones were the old style pulse styles where you need to wind it around window, not 111. It would be a lot quicker surely, because if it's dark and you have found the phone, the nine was the first number next to the little metal stopper at the bottom of the dialer. Ah, well, there you go. I. That's right. I can't believe I just said I. That means your accent is contagious. I never say I. So when I say grand to irish callers, I've got this weird kind of. I don't know what it is, like a reflex action. When I'm in the presence of accents that I love. Ask me what my qualifications are. No qualifications. No. Ask me what mine are. Ask me what mine are. You don't need qualifications to ask a question. We've had it before. We've had it before. I wouldn't be surprised if it's even on in the board game, but it gets me a round of applause. John, one for the younger listeners that they needed explaining. They say telephones. What they did. They what they did. They. What you did. The thing. The what? The dial. Nah. Elliot's in Solihull. Elliot, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. Elliot, why do we get car sick in the backseat of cars? And I say this because when I was younger, I was a child and a couple of my friends as well, on long car journeys, typically over an hour long, I feel really nauseous, really dizzy, really sick. I eventually grew out of it, but the cure for this was my dad saying, come and sit up the front. Yeah. And for whatever reason that worked, I never felt nauseous at the front of the car, sitting in the passenger seat. But for many years, I always felt really quite peaky on long journeys in the back. And this is apparently a trend with friends of mine. Peaky as opposed to perky. Peaky as opposed to perky. I think I know the answer to this one as well. It's been a while since I had a swing at two questions in a row, but I think it is, and it makes sense, given that it would dissipate when you moved into the front seat of the car. I suffered similarly, though not as badly as you. I just couldn't read and still can't. I can't read in cars. I've got one of my kids can. And it drives me green with envy, because if you're going on a long journey and you're stuck into a brilliant novel, the journey's going to go in a flash. But I think it's because you can see your body is telling you that you're moving, but the brain is not getting the information that it needs to catch up with your body because you're in the back and what you've got in front of you is a seat. And back when we were kids, the back windows of cars were a bit rubbish and often quite small. Whereas if you move into the front seat, your brain, your eyes and your body are in perfect synchronicity and you can see the speed at which you're traveling and everything flying past you and so you just make more sense of it. But I never had this on the bus or anything like that. Same here. Because I can track and read on a train and no problem at all. And the friends of mine as well. I have one friend now who still can't sit at the back of a bus for the same reasons. But I never had that with the bus. It was only over the back seat of a car and only tells. I'm clearly not going to get the round of applause. You're a very hard taskmaster. Sorry. That's how it should be. No, no, no. Absolutely not. I don't want your sympathy or your charity, Elliot, but it's got something to do with the relationship between moving, movement and sight. I'm almost certain of it. But you're quite right to quibble at the. You set them up, James. I'll let someone else knock them out. There we go. Thank you, Elliot. What's that about, then? How come Elliot used to feel carsick in the back of the car and then feel fine when he moved to the front? Zero. 345-606-0973 quite a lot of response via text saying, I might have got that telephone question wrong. Oh, we'll have to wait and see. I'm not giving back the round of applause. Remember, the best contribution to the program at this stage in proceedings, Windsor misjabble. You can find the full terms and conditions at LBC dot co dot UK dot. My decision is final. Can be either a question or an answer. But the one I enjoy the most wins a board game. And I can tell you now, it's had very little to do with me. The genesis of that board game, which is probably why it's so brilliant. I got so many lovely messages over Christmas, including pictures. I don't know why I found it so moving. Just this idea that I popped around to yours for a quick over Christmas and we both enjoyed the experience. You find out more at mysteryour dot co dot UK dot. It is 13 after twelve is the time Stephen is in South Harrow. Stephen, question or answer? James. Hi. I've got a question for you regarding the honours system. Okay. If you or I, more likely you, were to be awarded a knighthood. Not under this lot, mate. Carry on. Our wives would be known as Lady Stephen or Lady James, would they not? Or O'Brien or. Yeah, whatever. Or whatever. Yeah. So if the situation were reversed and one of our wives were awarded a dame hood. Very likely. In most cases. Very likely. Okay. Especially in my case, would we, the men, be. Have a title or a courtesy title? Would we become a Sir Stephen or a Sir James? And if not, why not? You'd think that there would be something, wouldn't there? But I don't. I don't think there is. I know. I know the answer for dames. Is the dame an equivalent of a knighthood? Is it a dame? Is it a female dame? Well, there is nothing like a dame, is there? There is nothing like a dame Stephen. So that is, I think, the answer. Because a knighthood, the female equivalent of a knighthood, is a damehood. And the husband, the husband of a dame, stays as a plain old mister. Hmm. So why? So the question is, if that is the case, why is that sexism? So it's the persecution of men. There's also an international women's day. But there's no international men's day. Don't me. There is. There is. It's a joke. Follow Richard Herring, find out more. But it is this. It's evidence that all the incels are correct. All the people who think that the world is being reordered to give far too much power to women. It's yet more evidence that the really, truly persecuted minority in this country are middle aged married men whose wives have been given damehoods. I think you're right. Maybe I should refuse the David on my wife's behalf. Right. Either that or get yourself out there, Stephen, and start doing it. Enough to merit a knighthood. I think. Large donations to the conservative. Change your name to Oleg and make an enormous donation to the conservative party. You'll be in the House of Lords by Christmas. Oh, too late, mate. Sorry. You've missed that boat. You've missed that chara boat. That boat sailed. You'll have to find something else, Stephen. Thank you. Round of applause for me. I'm not giving this one back either. The reason I know this is because I actually know a dame socially. But I'm not telling you any more than that. It would undermine my working class hero credentials. It's 1216 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 3456-060-9739 minutes after twelve is the time. A little surprised earlier, I don't know if you were listening, that there were a couple of oligarchs on the sanctioned list that my friend Bill Browder had not heard of. He's a world authority on oligarchs who should be sanctioned, one of them called Lebedev, but not linked to the Lebedevs that sit in the House of Lords and own the Evening Standard newspaper and employed George Osborne as editor of the Evening Standard and invited Boris Johnson to a massive knees up in Italy that he reportedly gave his security detail the night off when he attended before being photographed looking extremely disheveled on his way back to London at an italian airport. So nothing to do with those Lebedevs. But I was a little surprised bill didn't know who they were. Sadly, I'm not surprised to learn that when the Foreign Office, Priti Patel's foreign office, put a picture of this Lebedev bloke up on their Twitter account not long long ago, they accidentally used a picture of Dmitry Medvedev, the former russian president, instead. So, you know, really finally getting a grip on things over at the Home office. But remember, if you're going to slag off pretty Patel, whatever you do, don't mention Boris Johnson. Oh, and John Bercow is a bully. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. Back to mystery. John's in Buckhurst Hill. All right, John, bring it on. Give me my medicine. Slap bottom there. Steady on, just the wrist. I think I answered this question four years ago. Yeah, well, no one's counting except you. Well, nowadays dialing is done via. It's tone dialing and you use a frequency going back when the 999 service was first bought in, signalling was done via two wires. Yes. If you look at. If you look at old houses, you can still see some of those, like candlesticks on the, on the ends of these old houses. Yes, that's right. These were, these, these were open wires. There was no insulation on there. Yeah. So when, when the wind blew, or when the wind blew and it was in hot weather, these, these wires sometimes would sag. Right. And they would touch and that would cause a pulse. Now, if you had a signal in for the. For 999 or for the emergency services of the three pulses that could easily be affected by. By the wind or caused by the wind. Yes. The wind would never cause three pulses of 999. Yeah. So it was just the most pulsey number available, really. It was the hardest number or the hardest amount of pulses that nature could replicate. God, you know, I'm so old now, John, I've forgotten that completely. But now you mention it. Yes, I do. It's a more complicated answer than mine. So the placing of the nine on the dial has absolutely nothing to do with the nine? Nothing to do with it, but to answer John in Dundee's question. I see he's been on Twitter self flagellating himself for asking a rubbish question. Never do that, John, because if it feels like a rubbish question more often than not on mystery hour, it turns out to be a brilliant question later. And you would have been wise to tell me to shut up and go away and chill. Talk. So the reason why it's not one one one is that you feasibly could have meteorological conditions doing a fake one one one on the pulses. Exactly. Because the pulses now are frequency orientated and not. Not pulses. It doesn't matter at all now. But 999 is encased in our consciousness as the emergency number. Exactly. And the american system would just have been different, would it? Or when they had 911 or. Well, they've got different 911. Probably similar with the nine. Yeah, but whatever, it doesn't matter. You've given us. What did you do with your last round of applause? Have you still got it? I've still got it. I still stored it. That's right. I think this is my third round of applause. Well, you've got sahatcha. You're gonna need a new shelf in your trophy cabinet. There you go. Thank you. Thank you. Did that one make the board game? Don't ring in to tell me that. Just drop me a tweet or something. I should have done that. If it's not in the board game, I'll put in the booster pack. That's on the way. Later this year, 23 minutes after twelve is the time baron is in Maidstone. Should have found in about the question about honors and knights and dames, Baron. You'd be well qualified to answer that, Baron. No, there's just corruption. There's only one word for that question of us. You're not the baron of Siberia, are you by any chance? Not too far. My dad was probably not a good time to drop that into the conversation, but my dad was a Soviet who escaped Stalin. In fact, he got out under very good time to drop that into the conversation. Demonstrating that not looking at anything new. Oh, he knows nothing new in history, just repetitions and recyclings. What. What have you got for me? A question or an answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's. It's simply on the. While you feel sick in the back of the car. Something I sort of looked up a long, long time ago because it was horrendous. In the old days when you, especially when your parents used to smoke in a car as well. Yes. And they'd wind the window down that one inch at the front and do that. My mate's dad used to put the heater on full, used to give us a lift of work in Worcester. When I was worth, I worked at River island and Chris worked at Waterstones bookshop in Woodstone. We get a lift in with his dad, his dad changed job and so for about a fortnight we got a lift in with him. We were made up because we saved the money on the train fare and it's much. And after that we said, we can't do it anymore. Go for car, got him for Sema. It was absolutely incredible. We used to play the stone roses, so he'd let us choose the music, but he wouldn't open the window. I digress slightly, Baron, I've forgotten what you've rung in about getting car sick in the back of a car, but not feeling sick in the back of the car. Yeah, I think a lot of people probably did dive passive smoking, but there's never a new echo to that, is there? Yeah. So my feel sick. I mean, it's really just a very old response to. And you're right, it's what you can see. But if you sit in the car, your ears are telling you something, so you've got fluid flapping around in the back of your ears and it's telling you you're moving, but the eyes are seeing static objects. And if you've got disassociation between what your ears are telling you and the feedback from your eyes, then there's probably something wrong. We haven't evolved with cars, just like foxes and rabbits running across the road. So it says there's something wrong, you've probably been poisoned, you probably need to throw up your food, whatever you've just eaten, there's probably something wrong with it. So the nausea is deliberate. Your nausea, it's a lifesaving. Yeah, it's a very ancient part. And when you get into the front, your eyes are taking in more information that your tally's with your ears. And perhaps the answer as to why we're all right on trains or even buses is going to be something to do with suspension, is it? Probably, yeah, I mean, they don't swing around corners like cars do. They don't have a speed ramps, they're generally quite smooth. Yes, probably the repetition of the tracks was probably quite soothing than anything else. But yeah, if you sit in front of the car. You'll probably be lookout. I remember back in many, many years ago when I used to be a diver. I remember one time going out on the rib and we'd bounce around and it would all be fine. And as we were slowing down, you'd start to look down just to sort your boots out and get your kit. And that's usually when I kick off as well, being thrown around. Save your life. Ears and eyes. Eyes and ears, yeah. And never actually been. The funny thing is, never actually threw up, but always felt like, yeah, well, that's it, though, isn't it? And that's probably why it gets better with age, because it's not hardwired into you and you almost have a bit of learning. Well, you see, when you get older, where'd you tend to end up? Not the bag. You're a driver now, so you left. I don't like sitting in the back. You're probably right. Qualifications? Oh, general geek. Lots of biologists in my family. Alexander Fleming was my relative. I probably should have been biologist or physics. Oh, don't say that. We saw a gravestone the other day and it said something like that. Someone had it on their gravestone. Yeah. It says it's buried in. Not Alexander Fleming's gravestone. We saw just a random gravestone and it said something like, I should have been a doctor or I should have been an engineer. Oh, God, that's. He's probably. I know. My daughter spotted it. I can't remember where we were. Might have been old Brompton. Anyway, you get a round of applause. Baron. Oh, thank you so much. Lovely answer. Good work. Thank you. You carry on. 27. I was going to ask him about diving because they've found Shackleton's boat, but I think that the. The anecdote limit had been reached with the story about my mate's dad's car. Martin's in Morecambe, or Morracambie, as we used to call it when we were pretending that we'd been on exotic holidays. Marty, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on, mate. Yeah. What's been going on in the last couple of weeks in the Ukraine? Studying a map book, looking all the surrounding countries. Yeah. I was suddenly wondering that why Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan? There's another two or three more, Pakistan. And why do they all end in Stan? It's a good question. What's the reason for the stan? Must be. I mean, they're probably all soviet names, are they? I don't know. Soviet era name, so it might be the russian word for state or something like that. What about Pakistan, then? Yeah, all right. Clever clocks. That'll do. I'm just saying. Well, hang on, where are these countries? Afghanistan. Let me get a picture in my head, because the one I can never pronounce. Kyrgyzstan. Pakistan, Tajik center. Afghanistan. It's gonna be. It's gonna be Persian, then, isn't it? It's not gonna be Russian. It's gonna be something to do with the persian language, I'd have thought. Yeah, we want to have a queen, mate. That's why I'm falling in. Yeah, all right. I'm trying to work it out as we go. Do you know what the weird thing is, Martin? No. We only really went on holidays to two places when I was a child. One of them was Morecambe, which when. When I started at private school and it turned out all my mates were going to places like Barbados. My dad said, tell them you went to Morikambi. They never would have heard of it. And it worked for a while, so they thought I'd been somewhere exotic and. Stay where you are, Martin, because Mick's on the other line. And the only other place we ever went on holiday when I was a kid. Mick, where are you? I'm entirely unbelievable. This is like the biggest coincidence ever. My uncle John Williamson had a cottage in file, Mick. I wouldn't be able to tell you where it was, but we used to go out to Scarborough for the. For the ice cream. Anyway, I'm doing too much anecdotes, not enough mysteries. Why do you can't have it? Well, we'll find out, Martin, but it will be something to do with the persian word stan. Meaning something. Okay, James, thanks very much. I bet you a tenor. Yeah, okay, well, yeah, I'll try and give it to you one day if I bump into you. Carry on. What does Stan mean at the end of words? We better squeeze in Mick. I can't. I've got to leave him on hold. This is what I mean. Too many anecdotes, not enough mystery. We'll get to Mick quickly in filee after the very latest news headlines with Amelia Cox. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 poor old Mick in file. I've got to take Louise quicker in Salford because everyone's ringing in about Stan, apparently. So, Louise in Salford. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. And it's about the stand question. Yeah, that it means land. Are you sure? No, I'm not sure, but the reason I know is because I worked with. I used to work at Bsama, support work. I worked with people from all different backgrounds. Yes. And they explained to me, a family from Pakistan explained to me the meaning of Pakistan and that the Sudan meant land. And that is. That's what it means. All the stuns mean land. It's more. I believe it's more of a kind of place, rather than land, like where I am. It means where. Where. But I'm gonna give. We're gonna give you the round of applause and I'm gonna urge everybody else to stop. To stop. I should have stopped you because it's gonna be Persian or Urdu. That's the point. Or Persian and Urdu, possibly, but it doesn't quite mean land. It means more of a. More of a kind of where I am place. Yeah. Place is better land. So, everyone else, stop ringing in on this, because Louise is. And now you can have your round of applause uninterrupted. Louise. There you go. I've always been excited to phone in and I'm really excited. Knocked it out of the park. And the lesson is, of course, always ask people questions and then you'll get information that one day you might be able to use on mystery, how to win yourself a round of applause. Uh, and I need to write down Louise's name because I'm keeping a list of everybody who has rung in in order. I forgot. Who asked the Stan question. Who asked the Stan question? It was Martin, wasn't it? In. And where's Mick gone now? Don't worry about Mick. He's coming back. All right. Hugh's in Hampstead. Hugh, question or answer? Stam was a continuation of the stan. Okay, go on. Quickly. Though. It does mean land, but it actually means land of. Land of that as in, I am the land of me. So my land, I am from the land of Turkmen becomes. Well, the persian empire used to be. Yeah, they used to call it land of whatever. Kyrgyzstan or Kirk or Kazakhs. The tribes, essentially. Exactly. Lovely, lovely stuff. Lovely addition to the qualifications. That'll do. Round of applause. In fact, I'm interviewing on with Jalili after this disclosure. Oh. I met in Sandy a few years ago. There you go. Small world, isn't it, Hugh? Yes, that lovely stuff. 1236 is the time mix in filee. Lovely part of the world. Used to go there as a kid. Mick, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Mick, why is a corned beef tin shaped like a corned beef tin? Now, I know this. This has come up before and I'll be going to kick myself if I get the wrong answer. It's so it comes out easy, does it? Yeah. So it's partly so you can have the key on top. You can't have that on a round tin, I don't think. No, you can't, can you? Because it would snap off. You can't. You can't peel back a round tin lid and it's. Oh, there's all sorts of. Oh, no. It's to do with storage. It's to do with getting the meat out of the tin easily. And it's to do with the tin. The key on the top. But you're not going to take that. Oh, you want a definitive answer. Well, no, you can get tins of chopped ham and pork that are similar shaped in. Yeah. With a key on the side. But they are not corned beef tin shaped. Well, that's fry bentos. That's because all the corned beef in the world comes out of the same factory in Argentina. It's probably not even Argentina now. I'm saying it so confidently, I'm no doubt making a complete prune of myself. But that. That is, I think. I think all the. Doesn't all the. Doesn't all the corned beef in the world come out of one company or one country? Might not be Argentina, but it's around there. So that. Which bit are you objecting to in my answer? Don't say all of it. No, I'm not objecting to any part of the key. You'd have a key? Superior knowledge. Yeah. So I can't remember. All right, you win. I'll put the question on the board. What is it nice and filey this time of year. It's lovely today. Yes. I spent weeks there as a kid. I'm not sure I ever saw the sun once mixed. Well, it's enough today. We get. You get the sun in Scarborough, which is what, 5 miles away? Something like that, yeah. No, I'm only joking, love. Filing. 1238 is a time I. One day I might take my children on some of the holidays I went on as a child. They may never recover. Mark's in Barrow Inn furnace. Mark. Question or answer? Hello? It's an answer. Oldest language still spoken. Have you done this one before? Not this particular topic. Are you sure? Do you keep notes? Do you keep a record, Mark? I keep a record. There we go. So I trust you. I trust you implicitly. You're Aguai, isn't it, with the fray Bentos? Not Argentina. Anyway, I digress. Carry on oldest language in the world, what do you reckon? Still spoken. The oldest language still used. The best short answer is Chinese. We have it written from two, 3000 bce. There are languages that we have written earlier, but they're no longer spoken, like sumerian and Egyptian. Yeah, Chinese has diversified and changed a lot in that time, but the cult, the idea of it being a single culture, and the writing system encouraged people to think of it as still the same language. Lovely. If I turned up. That is an issue. What is an issue? How much a language changes and diversifies. For example, we've got Greek, which has changed a lot over a long period, but it's remained thought of as one language, same Alphabet. Latin is diversified into French and Italian and Spanish and so on, so they don't think of themselves as speaking Latin. Now. Went to ancient China. Speaking modern Chinese, would I be understood? No, there's too much change in that time, but it's still counted as the same language. It means same. If you went to old english speakers where they had beer wolf and that you wouldn't understand them and they wouldn't understand you, but it's still regarded as English. How far before Chaucer was Berwolf? About a thousand years. That's. Well, that's. That's. That's a thousand years. I mean, you could understand what Chaucer was saying if you met him now, but you couldn't. You couldn't understand what the Beowulf fellow was saying. There was a big change between old and middle English for various reasons. Yes, there was. Hebrew was mentioned. He was a special case. Go on. Well, unless you believe biblical fundamentalist ideas that it was the old, the first language of humanity, and we don't now believe that. That. Sure. Oh, have we lost him? The phone lines. Okay, he's dropped off. We'll try and get him back. I'll have a quick word with Sean, who's in bletchingly. Question or answer? Sean. It's a question. Please, James. Carry on. Shawn. Where do birds go to die? They don't. They just die. It's not like an elephant gravy. Yeah, you never see a dead bird. They're covered in blue tits. They're covered in every household bird. Very occasionally a bird might hit one of the windows in the house, but I don't know what the lifespan is of a common garden bird, but you don't see hundreds and thousands of them dead everywhere because they get eaten. So where do they go? Into the tummies of foxes and cats and things. Are you sure? Yes, of course I'm sure. Where else do you think they go? Fairyland. It does seem really, really odd. It doesn't seem really, really odd. I'll tell you what, the amount of birds that we actually have, it does not seem odd at all. How many, can I ask how many people live in your house? Me. Just you at the moment, is it? Yes. Okay. That's not going to work. Imagine my house, right? I've got two kids and a lovely wife. Yes. Imagine if I left a packet of biscuits out on the kitchen table. Yes. And then you ring me next week and say, where do all the biscuits go when you leave them out on the kitchen table. That's what you're doing with birds. No. Yes. That's what you're doing. Yes, yes. Yes. It is the same. It's a delicious forum. Thousands and thousands of birds dying just in my life. Thousands of thousands of biscuits in this country just walk into any supermarket. A bird, to a predator, is a tasty snack in the way that a biscuit is to an O'Brien. Right. That's. Where else do you think they go? What was your theory when you rang in Sian? Well, my theory was, uh. Oh. My theory was there might be a more complicated answer. Yes. I'm not sure how many birds are fox can get through. But it's not going to be just one fox, is it? You're going to have all sorts of predators. Cats, domestic cats, will pick a bird up, go and take it somewhere quiet where it can, you know, devour the enids without being disturbed by another animal. The odd badger. You're absolutely certain? Bird knows it's poorly, the bird doesn't know it's Pauly. It doesn't have a place. There's not somewhere that birds. Well, here's a. Right here. If there was. Yeah. Did you watch Tarzan when you were. Do you watch Tarzan? Do you remember Tarzan? Do you remember when a pauly elephant, and like, there was this great myth that there was an elephant's graveyard, and if you could follow a sick elephant for long enough, you'd come to this secret hideout full of dead elephants. And if you could get all the ivory from there, you'd be one of the richest people in the world. You probably don't. Yeah. So you think that somewhere in bletchingly. Yeah. There is like an enormous mausoleum of bird skeletons, secret that only birds know about. And they all go there? They all fly there when they're sick. No. What then? Well, yes and no. I don't think there's a mausoleum. No, but the bird. Bird is ill. I can't believe it. Just drops out the sky and then nobody ever sees one. You do? Very occasionally see one? Very, very, very occasionally. See my very early mystery hour. Someone asked, why do you never see a bird drop out of the sky? And the switchboard lit up with people who had seen a bird drop out of the sky. But the massive majority of us have never seen a bird drop out of the sky. No, I agree. Even if they die in their nest. I hate to say this, they might be eaten by fellow birds. Right. So they get eaten, whether by other birds, by predators, by foxes or by. I mean, Frenchmen eat a lot of little birds, but I think that's illegal now. Right. You don't sound convinced. I just. I think I just want there to be something a little bit more about it. Well, I mean, you know, I want world peace, but we're on a bad week that, aren't we? No, I just don't think there is anything better than that. All right. Can I clear off? Leave it on the board, just in case. I don't know if you can, actually, because that's quite insulting to me and the quality of my answer, but I will make an. Your answer was the only thing I could think of. And then I thought, no. When you have eliminated Sian, when you have eliminated the impossible, in your case, the secret bird graveyard. Yes. Whatever you or the fairy that comes around collecting birds, like the one that collects teeth, whatever you are left with, however improbable, must be the answer. Right? It's not improbable, though. It's just. The answer is they just get boring for you. It's boring is what you're saying. Shall I go? No, you can stay if you want, but, I mean, I've got to go to a break. Okay. Mind how you go. Thank you. I'll leave it on the board, but only as an act of kindness. What happens to dead birds? It's 1245. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 it's 1249. Natalie's question still hasn't been answered. Do you inherit an aversion to things like oranges? Is that hereditary? Or coriander? Zero 3456-060-9730 actually, we've answered a lot of them. I was just telling everyone off for not putting enough answers on the board. What happens to dead birds? That's for Sian. Like, it's not obvious. Zero 345-606-0973 and the corned beef tin. It's the. It's to get the beef out, isn't it? But apparently someone else needs to ring and answer that as well. Simon's in Clerkenwell. Simon, question or answer? Question. Yes. Why is it that when you put tiger balm or deep heat, like, you rub it on your leg? Yeah. Why does your leg get hot but your hands don't? Thickness of skin. Well, see, what I do for a living means that my fingertips have got very thin skin. What do you do for a living? I'm a jeweler. Oh, wow. So I'm continuing, like you file when you wear away. Yeah, but they're still a lot thicker than the skin on your thighs. Yeah, but even if you get it on the back of your fingers and in between your fingers. Well, it's the. It's just because the. But I think where the bone is, the bone's really near the surface. I bet if you put it right on your kneecap, it wouldn't burn much. I don't know. Have you got any there now? Have you got any there now? Actually, I do. Let's do it on your knee. Cut. I mean, roll your trouser leg up rather than take them down. It's a family program. My calves are so big, I think I'm gonna have to drop my stride. All right, drop your strides, mate. We'll look the other way. Everyone look the other way. All right. And then I've got the tiger bomb now. Nice one. Just put a blob on your kneecap. All right, and how. You try this. Yep, I reckon you're probably right. It's probably not going to get. But there's no muscle there. That doesn't matter. There's no muscle on your fingers. Yeah, there is. No, there isn't, not really. Well, I mean, it's the closeness of the bone. It's the. It's the amount of skin between balm and bone that determines whether or not you get a kick on it, because it's got to get all absorbed and everything, like a sort of osmosis type situation. You reckon it's nerves in the muscle? Yeah. Yeah. It's not. Well, I mean, I've proved it, haven't I? With actual science, live on the radio. What more do you want from me, man? What I'm doing now isn't very scientific. It's an experiment. It's an experiment. I mean, until it. I admit, first of all, we're going to have to publish and get it peer reviewed. But I think for the purposes of mystery. There you go. Qed. Would you get a round of applause? Hell, yeah. Yeah. You're not getting. It's not. Maybe we need a bit more. Bit more time to. If it's on your fingers. No, it's mean to put a bit on your thigh now. Go on. Yeah, go on. Just put a blob on your thigh, your inner thigh, where it's going to be even more sensitive than. Jesus is getting a bit rude. I know it is, but carry on. All right. I'm rubbing it. I'm rubbing it in. Yeah. Getting hot already, am I right, this might be dodgy tiger bomb now. You can't really tell. Oh, come off it. Oh, it's cold. Yeah, it's working, though. It's working. Tell me it's working. Yeah. Yeah. More than the knee. More than the knee. More than the knee. Round of applause for me. There we go. Thank you, Simon. There we go. You happy? You going away happy? Satisfied customers, I'm covered in tiger bar. Now. Your trousers around your ankles. I have to waddle back into the workshop. Are there any customers waiting? 1252 is the time. So I went to this jeweller's yesterday to get myself some new jewellery and I don't know what it was, maybe something to do with the job that he does, but the fellow walks in, he's covered in tiger bomb and his trousers around his ankles. Another. Simon. This one is fully closed, I hope. And in Balam. Simon, question or answer? It's a bit of an answer, James. Just an expansion on why we get nauseous in the back of a car more than in the front. Yes. We have three orientation systems in our bodies. 75% of it is vision. The rest of it is your inner ear. And the inner ear is two systems. One is a sort of gyro system that detects kind of circular motion, and the other one is an organ called the Ottilis that detects gravity. When you're in the back of the car and you can't see much in front of you, as you say when you're a kid, you only see the seat in front of you. Yes. Your peripheral vision is telling you that there's motion happening through the window. But because you can't see in front of you, those three systems aren't agreeing with each other. So for you not to feel nauseous or disoriented, the three systems have to agree. So your body is telling you that you're sitting still because of the constant motion of the car. So your inner ear system is telling you that you're sitting still. Got it. Your vision is telling you that you're moving. Got it. When you're in the front of the car, you can actually see the horizon. And so the horizon. That was the key word, isn't it? It's the horizon, exactly, yeah. Yeah. So you can see that you're moving towards something. There's a steady point in front of you. And so your inner ear is saying to you, actually, it's all right, you're not in trouble. Whereas you sort of think you're in trouble. Pilots get this illusion a lot when they're flying. I know this because I trained as a pilot in the South African Air force. As your answer. There you go. That's the qualifications. That's it. Round of applause for Simon. Even snuck in the qualifications. I'm unasked. A little bit of ego management coming in now from Helen. He says, I've no idea, says Helen, I've no idea who this is on LBC, but I haven't laughed so much in ages. Tiger balm. In more ways than one. I can't say my name more often than I do already. Helen, honestly. Andrew Zimworthing. Andrew, question or answer? Hunter. Carry on. I take you by surprise. You here under a false name. Yeah, because I'm not in Worthing. False place. Carry on. So, cans of corned beef. So the reason they are essentially conical is that when they're empty, they can nest inside each other. And when they have to transport empty cans to very rural locations or very remote locations, they can ship in millions of empty cans, fill them up with something of value and then ship them out full. And the same is true for alaskan salmon, where they only do it for. I disagree with you on this. Well, I'm not wrong. How dare you? I've written books about this. What are your qualifications? I've bought food for maybe 30 years or something. What? As a consumer, as a professional. So you eat food buyer. Oh, okay. Well, I'm an amateur. I'm an amateur food. I'm a gifted amateur food buyer. Yeah. So a normal can is a true cylinder and a normal cannery. I'll tell you what I missed. It's slicing, mate. It comes out in one piece. You see, that's the point about the shape of the corn bee. Wouldn't it come out in one piece if it was just a round can? It doesn't. You own a cat? Do you own a cat? That's irrelevant. That's a no. So if you'd shake a cat. A cat can. A cat can. A can of cat food. I mean, it will come out eventually, but it's not going to come out very easily. You'd spoon it out, wouldn't you? You spoon it out. Whereas with corned beef, one slice and then you can slice it up neatly and serve it up for dinner. You don't want your corned beef like you have your cat food, do you? Because it would look like cat food. Yeah. Where you get it in nice neat slices. Round of applause for me. Well done. Well done. Thank you for playing. Take care, Andrew. 1256 is the time Lewis is in healing. Lewis, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Lewis. So, the smell of oranges. Which of your hats are you wearing today? My. My degree. Okay, carry on. So you. You were partially right. Um. Or basically, that'd be a rubbish book title, how to be partially right. I must prefer the one I went with. Go on. That was a good book. Thank you. Well, I've read your first. I read the first one. I'm done. The second one. Carry on. But anyway, so like you were saying, with coriander, there's a percentage of the people of the population. Sorry. Who taste it much more soapy because they have a variation in their olfactory receptor genes. Yes. So it activates more acutely so it tastes more soapy for some people. Not for me. I love coriander. Yes. In theory, with her grandmother having it as well. Or her great grandmother, was it? Yeah. But chances are it's probably a recessive gene, so it'd be the same principle as the coriander question. Yeah. And so it's just been passed down. So it could. Yeah, it could. Well, so there'll be. There'll be more people. There'll be a few people listening to this program who have a similar response to oranges. Yeah. As with all genetic variants, there'll be random ones that are going, you know, it's evolution, effectively. There'll be little variations that go on and as it's not disadvantageous, it won't get eliminated. Qualifications. I have a degree in medical genetics. Round of applause for Lewis. Thank you, Louis. Gina is in reading. Gina, question or answer? It's an answer. It's an answer to where do birds go to die? Go on. Basically, like a lot of animals, when they feel vulnerable because they're feeling ill under the weather, they don't want to be out in the open so that they can be picked off by predators, so they'll hide away in a bush or the undergrowth to die. And other animals do it, don't they? Deers, rabbits, badgers. Yes, but then they get eaten. Well, yes, they may do, but we won't know, will we, because they're in the undergrowth or bush. But they still get eaten, though. This is the point. I mean, the question is, what happens to them? The answer is they get eaten. Yes, eventually. I should think so, yes. Circle of life and all that. Yes. I'm going to give you the round of applause because Sharma's such a loony prank. I'm going to add one more to that. Yolanda is here from Burkhold. Yolanda, what would you like? Question or answer? I will answer. Carry on to the dead animals. Yeah. If they don't get eaten by a scavenger or predator, then they'll be eaten by the maggots from the flies that lay eggs in them and then the worms and everything else. Like any dead body. Qualifications, my vet. That'll do. Round of applause for you, land of the vet. I think we can all agree we needed that right this week of all weeks. That was a very, very funny mystery. A huge thanks to everybody who contributed to it. And I'm going to give the mystery ad ball game to Sian, who asked the question about the birds, which just got answered quite beautifully by both Gina and Yolanda, even though I was right all along. I'm also going to go and work on my new book, how to be partially right. Cedar faculty, I was just thinking, when you were talking about the birds going off into the bush and then dying, does the carbon and nitrogen cycle have anything to do with that? Or is that just plant life and leaves and as in rotting cores and things? Yeah. Or do we rot in the same way? Carbon and nitrogen cycle? I think so. If you managed to sort of find a place where you wouldn't be predated upon or consumed, as Yolanda reminded us, by maggots and worms, then you would probably. Yeah, just get real, tilt down, shields.