The sawing sound as a plane lands?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It's four minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where I have to put aside my newly signed copy of bad actors by Mick Heron, which will be taking pride of place on my bookshelf a little later today and turn my attention to the almost as compelling mystery hour, which is, of course, your weekly opportunity to get answers to the questions that have had you befuddled for the longest time. The way it works is this. I won't overburden you with the details because you can work it out as we go along and most people are going to know already. You ring in with a question that needs an answer and then someone else rings in with the answer. The only rules, really, are that you can't look up the answer, which should be obvious but isn't always obvious. And the reason for that is that this isn't really about the destination, it's about the journey, and it's getting there that's fun. If we were going to allow googling or whatever, then there would be no mystery hour, largely speaking. And also, don't be dull. What do you mean? Pot, kettle. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. And of course, the prize remains a copy. What do you call it? It's not a copy, is it an edition? Sounds a bit weird as well. In addition to a box of a box. A prize. I don't know. What is the kind of descriptive term for board games? A board of board games. I don't know. Not the collective noun. Descriptive. Anyway, you get a board game, a board game if you make the most amusing stroke, interesting contribution to the program. And my decision is final. Full terms and conditions are available at LBC dot co dot UK. But the board game, I got to tell you, I mentioned Glasgow a moment ago. I was talking to Mick off air, actually, talking about book festivals and book tours. I signed one in Glasgow. Someone brought a lovely bloke, brought a ball game for me to sign, which was nice. And the number of people coming to the book signings now who want to tell me how much they're enjoying the board game, it's hugely gratifying. It's not quite as gratifying as you might expect it to be for someone as sort of delighted with praise as I am, because I didn't have much to do with the ball game. So if you love the book, that's great, because that's part of me. If you love the board game. That's also great because it's got, you know, we invented mystery air and it's got my face on the box. But all the hard work was done by other people, including my colleague Adrian Shirley, who wrote all the questions and did all the question cards, and Greg, who runs the company that actually make the game. They all did loads, loads more work than I did. But it's still gratifying when you come to my book signing to tell me how much you like the board game. Ideally, you like both. Seven minutes after twelve is the time you can get hold of your own copy if you don't win one. Today at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK dot. It's also available on the website named after the rainforest and indeed at John Lewis. Jeff is in Epsom to kick off mystery hour. Question or answer, Jeff? It's a question, James. Carry on. Okay. Right. When you get on an aircraft, before you take off and you're sitting, you're taxing along the Runway, the pilot, he or her, does their checks. They. There's a noise that sounds very similar to a lump of wood being sawn or a dog barking. It's a very distinctive. It's a long dog bark. It's a long bar. Yeah. A grinding noise is what you're looking for, isn't it? Grinding, soaring noise. You hear it every time before you as you're texting along the Runway before you take. And also when you land as well. Are you sure? Is when you're taxiing along the Runway. Well, we saw you taxi before you take off. Yeah. They will carry out the checks there before you, actually. But that's when you get the noise. Yeah, well, it's tootling along. It's still on the ground. Still on the ground. You're probably going. I know, probably 1015 miles an hour max, I would imagine. And then. Okay. No, I actually did video it when I was on the aircraft last year, but I've deleted it and I couldn't play it because you can't play it as well while you're on the phone, so I had to kept it. But it's just something I was just curious to hear. Cool. I think I recognize it. I flew for the first time in a long time on Saturday, so I do actually remember it. And it still takes you by surprise, particularly when you haven't flown for a while, you think, aye, aye. That doesn't sound right. And then you remember, no, I think that happens all the time. So plain grinding noise for Geoff, please. Zero, 345-606-0973 Yasmin's in Rickmansworth. Yasmin, question or answer? Hi, it's a question. Carry on. Okay. So. Gosh, sorry, I'm a bit nervous. It's only me. If you have a successful heart transplant from a pig into a person and it doesn't get rejected, would that affect the person's lifespan going forwards? So, like, as in, could they live as long as a normal person going forwards? Or would it be limited to the lifespan of a pig? This has only just happened, hasn't it? Yeah. Well, I think there was one earlier this year. I thought it was about a week ago. It happened in January. I think they only got reported. I think they only survived for a couple of months. This is. I mean, Yasmin, this is a horrible question. I'm sorry. It's not your fault. I mean, you know, we come to mystery out on a Thursday, expecting a bit of a lightening of mood. Well, it could be a lightening of mood if the answer is really positive and the answer is not positive. Because I read this story. I read it probably within the last couple of weeks. The bloke who got the pig, he only survived for two months. Yasmin. But is that because the heart wasn't. Was rejected? It's early. They know. They thought. They think he might have died of a pig virus. Oh. But if they weren't. If they were to survive from the pig virus, so if everything went fine and everything with the heart was fine. Yeah. Well, you. Yeah, it's actually. Yeah. Okay. Because otherwise. Because they wouldn't have done it, would they? Yeah, they must have thought there was a chance of it. I mean, it's. But by life expectancy, you can't mean would he survive as long as he would have done if he hadn't had a transplant? Because I don't think even human heart transplants do that, necessarily, do they? I have no idea. Oh, boy. I don't know who's going to be qualified to answer this, Yasmin, given that there's only one surgeon in the world who's ever put a pig heart inside a human. Who knows, he might be the one to ring in. I'll tell you what, he gets a rally osa if he does a bit of everyday sexism there. We're both presuming it's a man that did it. It's like that old riddle, isn't it? Bartley Griffith is the surgeon's name. It turns out the pig's heart was infected with a porcine porcine virus known as porcine cytomegalovirus, which may have contributed to his death. Okay. I mean, it's a. It's. Why do you want to know? I don't know. I saw it. I saw it, like, someone asked the question in the comments of a YouTube video, and I thought, oh, that's interesting. Maybe that could be a good one for mystery. Well, I mean, it is and it isn't, so we'll put it on the board and we'll try and find out for you. Would a pig heart give you as much lifespan as a human heart in the context of a transplant? There we go. That's the question that we're looking for. Oh, dear. Zero. 345-606-0973 it's put me right off my lunch. That story. Engin is in cat. Is it engin or engine engin? I thought it would be. You got it right the first time. No good. Engin's in Catford. Question or answer? Engin question. Yes. Is there. Is there a difference in metals that can go into a microwave? There's only one way to find out. What's stopping you? Well, I've just got. And got a pie. Yeah. Like a chicken and mushroom pie. And it's in a foil tin. Well, a posh one or Frey Benton. No, not if it's in a foil taste. What brand is it? Supermarket own or am I allowed to say the name? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's a pucker pie. A pucker pie. I can buy them in shops now. That's quite a recent. That's only the last few years, I think, that they've. I've seen. And you get the big ones. Is that a big one or a little one? It's a big one, isn't it? I'd say it's a small one. Is it? It's not that you can get the big ones as well. You know, you'd slice shop. It's just on a chip shop. It's a. It's a chip shop pie. Yeah. Did you get it from the chip shop or did you get it and the guy literally puts it in a microwave and zaps it and nothing happens? But, yeah, I've done this in the past where I've had a jar of Nutella in the winter. It's a bit hard to spread, so I put it into the microwave. I like this. It has remains of the foil on the top of the jar, which ends up sparking and cracking away. I think it's got as much to do with the microwave. As it does with the foil. But I could be wrong. So that. You're talking about the microwave in the chippy, are you? Yeah, but it's a domestic. How do you know? Because I understand this stuff. I can see it's just a normal high street brand home microwave. It's not a commercial one. And so, yeah, I just got a feeling that the whole sparking off in a microwave thing has gone down in recent years. Because it used to be, even if a plate had a bit of trim on it, it would kick off, wouldn't I? Could be. Yeah, that's right. But I don't think that doesn't need as well. Okay, I'll find out for you. So what. What metals go off in a microwave. Really? Yeah. Or what makes. What makes metal not go off in a microwave. You think it might be a treatment of the metal or something like that? Yeah. I don't know if it's plastic coated or couldn't it. Well, it unlikely, though, because the microwave goes in, doesn't it? Goes under the coating. That's how it cooks. It goes through. Yeah. That's one puzzle. The guy actually did it in front of me just now, and I'm like, I was waiting for sparks. And he said, no. He goes, it can be done. But he didn't know why either. He didn't know. He didn't know why either. No. Have you had the pie yet? I've literally just finished it. Living the dream. Delicious. Living the dream. You get the pie and then you get to. You get through to mystery, how to ask a question about the pie you've just enjoyed. I try every week to get through. Obviously, I have to find the right question to get onto the show. This is absolutely all day long. This is the right question. And do you know what? Not a chicken and mushroom man, really? But with the pucker pie. With the pucker pie? Yeah, with the pucker pie, you're better off going for the chicken and mushroom, because much as it pains me to say this, and I don't know, upset anyone at pucker pies, with the beef. The beef pie can sometimes not hit the spot. The steak also, you don't know exactly how much beef's in there either. I don't mind about that, as long as it tastes nice. But it just. Yeah, you just. Mate, if you're buying a pie in a chip shop, you're not exactly. Have you ever had a saveloy? No, I can't do it. Just wrapping meat in plastic just doesn't work. It's not plastic. It's a delicious sort of case. It looks like plastic, but with the steak pie or the steak and kidney, it does sometimes get quite grisly, which you'd never have that problem with a chicken and mushroom. No, exactly. It's nice and moist as well, so it's all good. Do you know what? I had lost my appetite completely after that conversation about pig viruses. And now, thanks to you, Engin, it's come back like a wrecking ball. Oh, excellent. Pies for lunch. Pies all round for lunch. Let's get him an answer to the question. Well, what kicks off? What determines whether or not a metal starts sparking in a microwave? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. 1215 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is. 1217. I don't take mystery hour questions generally by text or tweet, but I'll take this one. James, why is the Daily Mail run nine front page stories about Keir Starmer's big eight lockdown breach and only one front page story about the war in Ukraine. Ukraine since responding to Boris Johnson's party gate. Fine with the dismissive headline. Don't they know there's a war on? I put that on the list. Why would they have done that? I mean, you can have a crack at that if you want. Or would you rather that we leave the politics out of mystery hour? Because it is usually an hour. Keith will probably not like this. You'd quite like to keep it clean, don't you, Keith? Keep it clean, lads. Thank you. All right, but it's out there now. Kyle's in Liverpool. Kyle, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Bring it on, Kyle. It's called the barking dog on an airplane. Is it? Is it actually called that or did you just. Well, that's what everybody says. So what it is, it's only on Airbus 320 aircraft, so a 319. A 320. A 321 easyJet, for example. So there's three hydraulic systems on an Airbus. Green, blue and yellow. The blue one's powered up by the ground when it's connected up and that stays pressurized. The yellow one goes on when the first engine turns on or engine two turns on and then when engine one turns on, it activates, called a PTU, a power transfer unit, which then sends the hydraulic fluid and pressurizes the green line. And that's what makes that noise. The hydraulics pressuring up in the green line. And if you look out the window, if you're looking at the wings, you may see the aileron droop. And when you hear that noise, you see the aileron drew back up to normal position. Story. My boyfriend used to be a cabin crew for easyJet. Oh, yeah. And when he see people not listening to them doing the safety demonstration, he used to look out at these people. But when that noise happened, because they soon shoot their heads off then. And look at that, the crew doing the safety demonstration. But, yeah, it's the hydraulic system. Great stuff. Qualifications? I'm a simulator pilot, so it's a hobby. And we log onto a network and fly our airbuses and probably be able to land an Airbus then that guy in the Miami. I bet you would. How sophisticated is your kit? Do you just do it on a big computer or have you kind of. It's on the pc. Gaming pc. But the software is absolutely to the point. If you mess up on an aircraft, on the software, you're going down, basically. No, I can believe it. Know, some people build. They build like their own cockpits, don't they? Some people play the. Yeah, I've got the thrust levers and the joysticks and everything, but, yeah, I don't earn enough money forward for the kit. Kit out the spare room. Like it was a. Like. Also, it'd be a bit of a busman's holiday for your partner, wouldn't it? The last thing he wants. Thing he wants when he gets home is to have a cockpit in the spare room. Well, he works for a big red company now, so. And they. Even though they fly Airbus, the bigger airbuses, they have a practice transfer unit, but it doesn't make that noise. There you go. That is an incredible. That's one of the most detailed answers we've ever had. Carl, well played, mate. Lovely stuff. Thank you. Thank you. Vince is in Waterloo. Vince, question or answer? It's an answer, James, but I've got to say, I'm more interested in the microwave answer. Now you've got a question, given what's going on in the Ukraine and I don't want to bring the place down. No, but do us in Britain still have an air raid siren system? Because I remember seeing those things on the corner of ruse. I'm about the same age as you. Yeah. And I can't remember seeing one for a long time. That's as simple as that. No, I mean, I don't know, actually. I think they do. I think they don't. They test them very, very occasionally. Well, I remember them. Testing them. Do you. And. I haven't heard them for a long time and I'm a builder. I'll go on route. Right. I haven't seen one for a long, long time. No, nor have I, actually, so, yeah, you could. I mean, what are they going to do? Send out town? Cries with bells? Well, I don't know. We've got. We've got widespread community. It'd be me. I'd be your Adrian. Siren now. Night. Be me. Do you think it would be radio? Yeah, well, radio, telly, billboards, everything. Internet. You could probably send a text to everybody's phone, can't you? Can't you do that these days? I don't know. I mean, I'll find out for you. And if someone's really clever, they might know what the alternative is if we don't still have them. I kind of presumed we did when you asked the question, but the more I think about it, the more I wonder whether we actually do, because of, you know, everything has moved along. Well, we'll find out. All right, I'll find out for you, then. Take it, mate. Stay safe. Uh, do we still have air? Right, an air raid siren system? What. What determines why does some metal spark in the microwave while other metal doesn't? And is it possible that a pig heart could be as an effective in a transplant as a human heart? Ian? Zinjabra. Ian, question or answer? I think it's kind of an answer. Go on. To do with the pig heart. Oh, yeah. So I can't really tell you about an entire heart, but I had a pig valve fitted in my heart and its life expectancy was around 15 years. Right. But I managed to ruin it inside seven. What did you do? I had to get it replaced again. But when you say ruin, you just mean unlucky. Yeah, unlucky. It wore out, it calcified and leaked quite badly, so they had to replace it with another valve. I mean, it's fascinating, but you're right, it's not really an answer to the question we were asking, is it? I'm just going to suggest that there isn't much chance that the pig valve is going to last any longer than the pig heart is going to last any longer than the valve. No. How commonplace is that? Is that a well known thing? I mean, is your aortic valve. Is it. Is that the one it is, yeah, that's right. That's the one that I had replaced. They usually. I think they usually do them now with. With coat issues, supposedly, or you get. Or you get a mechanical one, like the one I've got just now. Good grief. I'm going to give you a round of applause, obviously, but I don't know that the question has been comprehensively, conclusively answered, but I can't see how anyone's going to get any closer, can you? Well, I don't really. Well, since the guy that you just said had the actual pig vibe, pig heart died after two months, I don't think it's going to get much closer than having part of the pig. No, I think you're right. I think you're right. And the only reason I'm not giving you a bray Liota is that this is actually quite, quite, quite a commonplace operation. Yeah. Yeah, it's quite. I mean, well, I've had two of them in six years, seven years. So let's hope the new one lasts longer. Let's hope the new one lasts longer than the old one, hopefully. So, top man, round of applause for Ian, please. I mean, that is kind of definitive in terms of what. What might be available unless the actual surgeon rings in or something like that. Rory's in Horsham. Rory, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Rory. So, for Christmas, we bought my little three year old boy a pirate ship, and we've been messing around with the way pirates supposedly speaks. My question was, did pirates back in the days of empire actually speak the way they're portrayed in popular culture, like Yahaha and Yahoo and Shiba. Shimmer me. Timber. That's a lovely question. Isn't it such a lovely question? And if they don't? If they don't, well, then where on earth did that come from? Where does it. Where does it come from? Does it come from Robert Louis Stevenson? Maybe come from Treasure island, but I can't remember how it was written down. I did wonder that, but I wonder where, if they really did, if that was taken from experience somehow, or why would they speak differently from everyone else? Anyway, they're pirates. It's not like they were born pirates. They've become pirates. I love that question. I hope we get an answer. It's no. There's no guarantee that we will, but someone might know. Did pirates really talk like that? And if not, where did the idea that they do talk like that in popular culture come from? Rory, lovely question. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Matt's in Plymouth. Matt, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Hello? Yeah, so, basically, the answer I have is that, yes, we do still have air raid sirens in places that still require them, particularly here in Plymouth, because we have Devonport dockyard. They test their air raid siren every Monday at 11:00. Seriously? Yes, seriously. Every Monday at 11:00 we test the air raid siren and you can hear them. Can you get them to wait a bit? Because I'm on at eleven. Can you get them to do it a bit later? Don't want people getting distracted when they're tuning into the big show. Well, certainly when I first moved to Plymouth over 20 years ago, it was quite alarming. It was like, yeah, so. And they also are now moving towards a emergency text message alert system which were tested this week in Plymouth. Oh, was it really? Residents had a text message alert just. Just to say this is an emergency alert system test. So in answer to the question, do they still exist? The answer is yes. But are they on anything like the scale they were in previous generations, particularly, you know, wartime and shortly afterwards, then, no, this is a really, really good answer. And qualifications. Absolutely. Listen to it. I hear it every Monday. I hear it every Monday. Did you get one of the text messages? I didn't know. I don't think I was part of the test. You're not important enough, mate. Apparently not. You can take your chances with the error. Round of applause for Matt. What a lovely answer. Thank you, Vincent. Vince will be pleased. Sam's in Manchester. Sam, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So I'm just wondering if I like barbecue sauce and you don't like barbecue sauce. Does it taste the same to us and you don't like that taste or does it taste differently to different people? Because since my wife had COVID, she used to really like onions and now she can't stand the taste of onions. It tastes totally different. Gosh. So I'm wondering if there's an enzyme or something in her taste bud that's been changed and therefore, you know, when someone tells me they don't like strawberries and I like strawberries, does it taste differently to them? Because strawberries are so nice. I know. Why would you not like them? Yeah, I like that question because I thought it would be, you know, some people like hot food. I'm thinking of spicy food. So obviously we taste differently because some people can't eat really spicy food, can they? And other people love it. Yeah. And there's some things like. So coffee, which I like. I can understand maybe why someone wouldn't like it, but then there's other things that I just think it's just strawberries or chicken and mushroom pucker. Pies. Yeah, exactly. No, you're on. I like that. Inconceivable that someone wouldn't like. So it's almost bio. Is our biology different? Isn't it? Or our chemistry? Is there something scientifically different that determines how things taste? Because otherwise, how did COVID work like that if it wasn't in some way? No. There must be some chemical reaction in my mind, in my wife's taste buds, which is now different. So it's not that she's got no taste. She can still taste onion, onions, but she doesn't like it anymore. Yeah. And they don't taste the same as they did a year ago. It's not as though she tastes the same, but she doesn't like it anymore. They taste totally different to her. How bad is it? I mean, would she not even eat onions in a. In a sauce now or just a sandwich? No, she doesn't mind them if they're in sort of cooked in a spaghetti bolognese. Raw onions on a salad? No, that's fine. I was going to say it'd be quite limiting if it was. If it was cooking as well, because so many dishes have it as the base. But I don't know why I'm getting so hungry during this mystery. That's a lovely question, Sam. We will find out for you. It is. Coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three 4560-609-7333 minutes after twelve is the time. Anybody else do a little double take? Then that thing in the news about Boris Johnson saying he wakes up every morning wondering about what he can do to help alleviate the cost of living crisis. Except Wednesday morning, eh? When he must have woken up and thought, oh, Dan, why didn't I put anything in the Queen's speech about how I'm going to alleviate the cost of living crisis? I'm here all week. Try the veal. Ken's in Leeds. Ken, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Ken. First of all, great program. Keeps me sane. Me too. Right. It's about the pirates speak. Fantastic. And I believe that this started with an actor called Robert Newton, who played Long John Silver in a film of Treasure island in the 1950s. And he went on then to star as long John Silver in a series called Long John Silver. And it was his way of speaking with the R's and it was so. It was so pervasive. It caught on so much that now that just became associated with all. Yeah. Makes perfect sense to me, actually. Yeah. Someone's just texted to say, modern pirates speak with an etonian action. That's pretty good, isn't it? It's true as well, yeah. Qualifications are film fun. Picked it up over the years, aren't you? A round of applause. Well done, Ken. Thank you very much. Do you follow the football, Fred? I do, yes. Bad night last night, wasn't it? Well, there you go. It's what it is. It is what it is. There is the philosophy of Elise United fan, like my late father. It is what it is. Carl's in Belfast. Carl, question or answer? Hi, James. Good afternoon. Hello. My question's a bit weird, actually. The more I think about it, the worse it gets. Oh, no, I'm just going to hang up a minute ago. So you're looking at a white wall with a black square on it. Yeah. For a second or two. And then you close your eyes and you can still see it. Oh, yeah. What's going on there? I mean, it's not the word. Burn is not the right word, but does it burn something into your retina or your brain or what's going on there? Yeah, I don't. Of course, I know what you mean. It's not a complicated question. This stays in your brain for a while. You must have had it before. It might be in your game. I don't know. No, I like it. No, I don't think it is in my game, actually. I don't mean. Although there's no guarantee of that because I can't remember. I've got a black strip of tiles in my bathroom, you know, busy. Yeah, of course. And you blink it and you can see it. Yeah, you can. So you can still. Yeah. Whereas you can't. It doesn't work with other things, does it? I'm looking at Keith now. Good grief. And I close my eyes. It's not like I can still see. Keith stopped pulling silly faces now. It's so unprofessional. Keith. Keith's away. Yeah, but it works with black and white or with Tetris. Did you ever play Tetris? Did you ever play Tetris? Yeah, I suppose, yeah. Did you play Tetris ever on the game boy? I did all the time. Do you not remember? You could see Tetris when you closed your eyes, if you play. If you played. And then another thing was, we've got the Northwest 200 happening this weekend in Northern Ireland. Oh, yeah. And whenever I was up as a child with my parents. And you would come home at night and you could still hear that in your ears. Oh, like. Like an echo. Except not. I swear. You could hear an internal echo. I like that. I shall try and find out for you. Thank you, Carl. Why can you still see stuff when you close your eyes? 034560. The stuff you've just been looking at. Zero. 345-606-0973 bit of a stewards inquiry from Matt. In Plymouth, the test siren is actually every Monday at 11:30 on the dot, not 11:00. I don't think we rescind the round of applause for that. But Judy lives opposite the dockyard in the port of Plymouth. No, opposite the port of Plymouth, not far from the dockyard. I also didn't receive the recent text. I'm happy to relieve him of his round of applause. You'll have to share, Judy. Mark's in Sunbury on Thames. Mark, question or answer? It's a question, actually, James. Carry on. Mark, why do airline pilots sit on sheepskin covers in the flight deck? I didn't know they did. Are you sure? Well, in the days when you could go up into the flight deck, I always remember noticing that. And on YouTube videos that people and pilots post of them, you know, landing at various airports, they always still seem to be sitting on sheepskin covers. I can't believe in this day and age there's no technical advance whereby the seats are air conditioned or whatever, but they all still seem to sit on them. Maybe it's like superstition stroke tradition. Maybe. But we need to know, don't we? And I'm taking the premise of the question on trust here, Mark. You realize 100%, because it's a while since any of us have been in a cockpit. We could have asked, who was it that answered the question about the plane noise? It was Kyle, wasn't it, in Liverpool? We could have asked Kyle about that. He might have a sheepskin in his computer room. He might have a sheepskin on his simulation. Right, you're on. Let's find out. Why do pilots always sit on sheepskins? Zero. 345-606-0978 Tom's in subway. Tom, question or answer? I have an answer, James. Bring it on, Tom. It was about a guy who asked about his wife as having different tastes of onions. It sounds like she's got a condition called parosmia, which is an after effect of COVID It's quite a common one. And parasmia is where the cells in the nasal receptors are picking up distorted signals. From their food. It's a very common post COVID, and when people recover post COVID, it's quite a common symptom. See more and more of it. So you can't. I mean, that's strong. And it's an answer to part of the question. But the bulk of the question was more, do we taste the people without parosmia? Do we all taste things differently or do we all taste the same thing when we taste the same thing? Basically, Sam wants to know how anyone can not like strawberries. Well, it's a different one in Perosmia. It's quite a clear one, which is what we all can describe, an experience which might be quite similar. But then people who have parosmia does show that actually, if all of the nasal receptors aren't picking up the same code, then they are having a very different experience. And then people who smell onions that are experiencing them are, I think, quite a common one. It's sort of a tarry flavor. Coming. Okay, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Qualifications, actually, before I do, just to check, I work with the leading charity on smell and taste disorders called fifth sense. I do a lot of work with them. Fifth sense. Fifth sense, yeah. So anyone who is listening to this and thinking, oh, blimey, that's me, might be able to get a little bit of help from fifth sense. Absolutely. There's a message on the website and it's absolutely devastating. People who can't eat, they put food in their mouth and it takes rotten and people are just restricting themselves. It is really. And people who've lost it altogether. And I've talked to people who've had nose dissertation smile for nearly two years. My friend Jack, that happened to my friend James Cracknell after he had his accident in America when he was filming that thing. And, I mean, it was almost as a party trick. He can put Wasabi in his mouth, you know, and chew it like a. Like a minstrel, because he's got. He got completely wiped out his sense of taste. Thank you, Tom. That's a cracking answer and I thank you for it. A round of applause for Tom, please. Thank you. Thank you. And mention the charity there because there'll be a lot of people affected by this who aren't quite sure where to turn. And it's still not quite the definitive answer to the. To the original question as well, though. So there's room for improvement on that. Well, not improvement, because it was answering a different question. It's slightly more important, in a way, than how can anyone not like strawberries? Which I think we can all agree is Sam's question distilled down to its very essence. Because the only possible explanation for some people not liking strawberries must be that they don't like the taste of the same thing that we taste, which means they must be tasting something different. My sister doesn't like strawberries, but I think that was like me not liking fish fingers because strawberries were her favorite. Strawberries were my favorite food when I was a kid and fish fingers were her favorite food when she was a kid. So in order to try and deny each other our favorite foods, we pretended that we didn't like each other's favorite food. So she ends up not liking strawberries. I ended up not liking fish fingers. I actually quite like fish fingers, but somehow I still have a mental resistance to the idea of fish fingers. It's a weird one. Andy's in Manchester. Andy, question or answer? Question. James, carry on. Why do we use the word once and twice? No, sorry, I'll put that different. Worded it wrong. Don't worry. Use the words first and second when they burn. No resemblance to the words one and two. But we use 3rd, 4th, fifth and 6th. Oh, and that's why you had to change it back from one to two. Yeah, yeah, I know, I didn't yet. No, I guess that's, uh. Just trying to think. No, I've got. No, I'm just trying to think about language. 2nd, 1st. So it should be once and two st. Yeah, I mean, you know, is it kind of related to what we use for french, like beef and coke? Yeah, I think it probably. 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th. It's literally only the first two. Yeah, I love that question. That's a great question. No, good work we got there in the end, Andy. Yeah, good man. Thank you, mate. Let's try. So why. Why is it first and second when they bear no resemblance whatsoever to one and two? Nathan's in Swansea. Nathan, question or answer? It's an answer, James, carry on. It's for the pig heart. Oh, yes. The gentleman in question ended up passing away, unfortunately, because of mass organ failure, which usually occurs when you have a major cardiovascular operation, as in a heart transplant or a lung transplant. The heart itself was in very good condition and was doing very well. But unfortunately, the reason why this gentleman was up for this surgery was because he was so near end of life and at that point, the rest of his body wasn't able to keep up with the performance of the pig. There's also the possibility the surgeon said he thought it might have been a virus as well, but it's unlikely to be one single thing. But does this answer the question of whether or not a pig heart could potentially be as successful in a transplant as a human heart? Well, this is one of the things, I think it's so new, really. Unknown. That's what I thought. As at the time, they said it was. It was going strong, it was performing well, more than they thought it could do. It was completely unknown. I think you're right. I think Yasmin's gonna have to wait a few years to get her answer, isn't she? I think so. I'm gonna give you a round of applause, though. Oh, hang on. Qualifications? I play sports with one of the surgeons who was on that surgical team in America. Yes. Okay. I'm visiting the UK, but I currently. I live and work in the US. And you play sports with someone who was actually in that theater at the time, in the room where it happens. Yep. And she was a female, or still is a female. I mean, that's Ray Leo to terror. It's not, is it? It would have to be her to get the radio to. But you get. You definitely get your round of applause, which was so cruelly interrupted. We did ask you what the bacon would taste like. Behave. 1245 is the time. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. We've done the plane noise, we've done the plague transplant. We haven't done the metal in microwaves, we've done the air raid sirens. Although bad news for Matt, mate. I mean, another stewards inquiry. It's not an air raid siren. It is at 1130, not 11:00 as Matt said. But it is actually on account it's a nuclear accident alarm. On account of the nuclear submarines being repaired in the dockyard. Testing is part of the safety justification that comes from Tony in Plymouth. Qualifications? I work in the dockyard on the submarines. Pretty strong, you know, the mystery house. Sometimes you just get the impression everyone's listening. Like literally everyone. Or at least somebody everywhere, perhaps so. Nice one, Tony. I'm not. I mean, it's all good, Matt. Matt was kind of right. There are still sirens around, but they're not aerosol. That makes sense, doesn't it? Otherwise there'd be loads of places where you should be having air raid sirens. I should have thought about that. Inverted colors. Why do you still see some images when you close your eyes? Do people taste? How come some people don't like strawberries? Are they tasting something different from those of us that do. We've done the pirate do. Why do pilots always sit on sheepskin covers? And why do we say first and second when they don't bear any resemblance to one and two? But as you carry on down the ladder, it's 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th. That's the lot. I think, as far as I can tell, Ryan is impressed. And Ryan. Question or answer? Answer, James, carry on. So it's the pilot seat cover question. Is it true? Is it? They do sit on sheepskin, do they? Yeah. So they do. They do, yeah. So there's a number of reasons. The big one is that they're. They maintain temperature, so whether it's hot, cold in a flight deck, the seat kind of stays the same temperature and sheep have them as coats, I suppose. They're also hypoallergenic, so they won't irritate a pilot's skin and they don't melt. So if there's a fire in the flight deck, the seat cover won't catch fire and when they do melt, they don't stick to anything. Qualifications? I'm an airline pilot for one of the UK's largest leisure carriers, so it's a tradition as well. Presumably there would be a modern. There'd be something modern you could use that would fulfill all those criteria. But it's always been. Yeah, it a lot more common on Boeing airplanes because obviously, I think Americans like their traditions a bit more. Okay. Obviously the Airbus is a bit more modern and they probably come up with something a bit more nifty. And I like it. I like it a lot. And you're perfectly qualified. Where are you off to next? You know, I'm getting married in two days time, so I've got two weeks off and then I'm off to Lancret at the end. Oh, thanks. Well, best of luck getting married on Saturday. That's the one. Is it on schedule or did you put it off during lockdown? Delayed by three years. Oh, boy. And you're still together? We are. That's a relief. That's a relief because they don't give the deposit back that easily. No, no, we've been really lucky. They've just moved the dates. Oh, lovely stuff. Well, can we give Ryan a round of applause for his brilliant answer? We haven't got any suitable music ready, have we, to give him a what? Yeah, go on, give him a hallelujah. That's just to get you in the mood for the music on Saturday. Probably not having anything like that Amy is in bath. Amy, question or answer? I've got an answer. I need to press the button. I can still. Sorry, carry on. Amy. I've got an answer to the color after image. Yep. So it's also sometimes called the waterfall illusion, for movement. And it's about, basically your neurons getting tired because you've been staring at the color black for too long. So then when you look away, they go, I'm too tired. But all the other colors that you weren't staring at are obviously still at a normal activation level. So then you see the opponent colour instead, because the black ones have got too tired. It's the fatigued neurons. It's fatigued neurons, yeah. And the waterfall illusion is the same, but with. With motion. So when you're watching at the end of a cinema and you see the credits going up. Yeah. And then you look to a blank wall, you'll see downward motion. You will. And that's because you're up. That's tetris firing. That's tetris. I would rename it. I'd rename it for the 21st century. Call it the Tetris. Actually, it's the late 20th century, I think, if anything. Oh, I love that. What are your qualifications? A psychology degree. And that counts as psychology, does it? It's all about perception. So it's about how your brain and neurons are firing and obviously how you perceive things. Same as illusions, you know, any illusion is actually about perception and in the brain. Round of applause for Amy, please. Thank you. Amy Lewis is in Putney. Lewis. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Lewis. So it's an expansion of the answer on the taste and the smell? Yeah, go on. So basically, it's genetic. The reason some people do taste things differently to other people. The most obvious one being coriander, where people have. Some people can't abide it. Tastes like soap, doesn't it? To some people of the population, I think. Exactly. And it's different genes that have a different receptor which picks it up more acutely, so they taste more soapy. So the reason for this is because, as with many tastes and genetic variability, it's evolutionary advantageous. So, hypothetically, with the bitter taste, because he mentioned coffee, I think. Yes. Bitter comes about from being able to taste poison. Okay. And if hypothetically, I have a variation of a gene, which means I can detect a certain poison, more from a, say, a plant, and then everyone in our population who doesn't have it eats that plant, they die, my children live on, and I take over the world. Look at that. Yes, exactly. And so that might even apply to a strawberry, because that's. I mean, someone not liking a strawberry is not tasting what you and me and Sam would be tasting. Yeah. Because, well, genetic variability is happening all the time, and if it's advantageous, it will propagate more. If it's. If it's negligible, like with a strawberry, which isn't poisonous. Yeah. It's not necessarily going to negatively select against you. You'll just won't like the strawberries. But if, hypothetically, the graph would stay quite flat, really, on it being passed. Well, it depends on food. Because if suddenly, if food became scarce and there was only strawberries, those people would die out. So good at this. Every time you ring in, I sit here feeling educated. I like that. What would be the most remarkable food? Would it be a strawberry if you had to pick the food that you simply can't believe someone doesn't like? Oh, now there's a question, isn't it? A strawberry would be up there, wouldn't it? A really nice, juicy, ripe strawberry. It's a pretty good flavor, I've got to say. Yeah. It's one of my favorites. I'm thinking someone who doesn't like sticky toffee pudding, I always think it's. You don't like sticky. Oh, you think that is strange. I think that's strange. Unless it's the texture. I mean, the flavors. Anyway, we digress, Lewis. Have yet another round of applause for yet another brilliant contribution. 1255 is the time. It was subsistence rations was the phrase I was looking for approximately 2 hours and 50 minutes ago. No, you didn't. Subsistence rations is what your man Lee Anderson thinks people should be expected to survive on. Melanie is in bow. Melanie. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Oh, you're pushing your luck. It's five to one. Go on. Aha. Right. So, very simply, the money that we use sterling with the queen's head on notes and coins. When she passes away, what happens? Do the notes slowly get taken out of circulation? Yes. Or do they just sort of basically stop them? They've already got Charles on the next note. Yeah, they just carry on as norm. They're just. All the new stuff has Charles's bonds on it, and then they slightly. Then all the old stuff would be taken out of circulation at the same rate that it would have been anyway. So they still keep them for, like, many years, basically, yeah. I mean, if you're depending on. You're too young like me, but you could still get. What was the queen's dad called King. King George. George. Yeah. You could still get King George coins around well into the fifties, I think, or sixties, I can't remember. But yeah, the answer is yes. Everybody brings all their money to the bank and swap it. Melanie. Yeah. No, but they could have like started to discontinue them, so to speak. And they will. They will. They'll knock it on the head overnight and then, and then they'll take it out of circulation coins. And so you'll be using the coins for quite a long time after. Oh, okay. Yeah. Okay. No, I didn't expect them to be withdrawn straight away, to be honest. Equally, I didn't know if there'd be like a used by date on it. None of that. Round of applause for me. Qualifications. We've had it before and I think it's in the board game, actually, I think this question is in the board game, I could be wrong. Mark's in Barrow, in furnace, with yet another sparkling contribution. And Mark is a linguist, so I'm going to say he's going to go for the. Why do we say first and second when we go on to say 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th? Mark? Yeah, there's a word for this. It's called suppletion. And it's what happens when you get, in an early stages of a language before it gets fully standardized, you may get different parts of the same word from different sources. So first is from the same root as Greek, protos, as in lots of words beginning with proto, protozoic, and so on. Prototype, 2nd. 2nd is from a latin root meaning following, coming after the first one, after number one. Now what then happens is that when a language gets sequitur, as in following. Yeah, yeah. The same music, and when a language gets more standardized, that kind of thing tends to get evened out. And you get the same, the same route for all the parts of the same word. Very common words, very common. And short words. You use them so much that you're very familiar with it and you don't feel the need to replace them by more regular forms. Perfect. This happens as well with the verb to be like, you've got I am, but you are she is. And you get it with go and went. It should be ir urer. And in Afrikaans it's gone like that. But in English it hasn't got to that point. Greek is absolutely full of it. Verbs in Greek have got this. And a good example with numbers is Russian, sodok, which means 40, and it has nothing to do with the words for four or ten. Oh, really? Where does it come from? Could you know? So you know, it does. Little bits of it pop up, but mostly it happens with the very common words. I love this one qualification. Supreme linguist extraordinaire. Another. Yet another round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you. Always a pleasure to talk to you. So it's about one a week at the moment. Who's going to win it this week? Poor old Engin with his. I'm tempted to give it to Engin because he didn't get an answer. I'm gonna do that. I'm gonna give it to Engin because he's. I mean, he's had a pie. What a day. He's had a pie. He's had a puck of pie. He's got on mystery Aaron. Now he's won the bloody board game. Engin, mate, this is like Christmas for you. So Engin is the winner of this week's board game for his question about microwaves and metals that did not get answered. I think according to my notes, every other question was, that's it from me for another day. Sheila Fogarty's up next.