How long does a house last?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time mystery hour is upon as your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that is not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. And if you don't know how it works, you're in for a treat. If you do know how it works, you already know that you're in for a treat, so you don't even need to tell you that you're in for a treat. If you have a mystery, a question in search of an answer, and it has to be a question that you know must have an answer, but you just haven't been able to work it out for yourself, then call me now on zero 345-606-0973 and somebody else listening who will know the answer already. That's pretty much the only rule that's left after years of shaving away the edges of this whole feature for various reasons. The only rule left, really, is that if you know the answer, you ring in. You're not allowed to look anything up. And the reasons for that vary from the pretentious to the perfect, depending on what sort of mood you're in when I explain them to you and what sort of mood in I'm in when I explain. But that is pretty much it. You give us a ring, you asks us a question, and you waits for the answers. Sometimes I will provide the answers, ideally, quite often, but rarely, I have to be honest, increasingly rarely. But if I do know the answer, then I accept the round of applause myself. Otherwise we wait for other people to ring it. It's a very, very busy switchboard. It's busy all the time these days, but it's particularly busy between twelve and one, and it will be slightly curtailed this week. I'll tell you why now, because we may get overtaken by events. I'll be leaving you with the words of a woman whose funeral I'm attending a little later this afternoon. So Majid Nawaz will pick up on the end of a little reminder of the last big conversation, public conversation, I had with my dear friend Lily Pullman, who, as you know, passed away last week. And Lily, regular listener to LBC, regular caller to various programs on LBC. But it was when she phoned to talk to me about her. It's not quite an escape from the Holocaust, but that's the best word I can think of. It just touched so many of us so deeply that we became friends. And she appeared on stage with me at Leicester Square at the beginning of last year when she was in amazing, sparkling form. And I love the thought that the standing ovation she told me that the standing ovation she received that night kept her company. The memory of it kept her company during lockdown. So I shall be leaving the studio a little early and leaving you with a memory of that particular evening, and I'll be representing you at that funeral. And everybody who listens to LBC and indeed works at LBC, who Lily Polman touched in ways that I don't think any other listener or caller has ever touched us. Six minutes after twelve is the time. So mystery app is a fun feature designed to increase our illumination, our sum total of our knowledge. The guarantee I offer you at 12:00 every Thursday is that by 01:00 you will know more now. You will know more by 01:00 than you do now. Although I will throw in the caveat, the terms and conditions that you might have forgotten it by 01:15. And even if you haven't forgotten it by 01:15, the knowledge that you accrue between now and 1 may never, ever, ever prove to be of the vaguest use to you at all. Although there's always the possibility that you can ring a future mystery hour and provide the knowledge that you learnt from this mystery hour and win yourself a much coveted and and widely cherished mystery. Our round of applause. I think that covers it. Should we crack on? I think we should. Bernard. Bernard is in Victoria. Hello. Hello, Bernard. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Of course I would. What is the difference between a ballad and a song? Well, all ballads are songs. Well, exactly that. Considering a ballad is already a song. At what point does a song become a ballad? Yeah. Why do you want to know? Well, because it's just something of what? The clues in the name of the show, really. Mystery. It's a mystery. These are mystery. When is it? When does a song become a ballad? What? Do you have any favorite ballad? I mean, could you, for people not familiar with ballads, can you give it, give them a flavor of how you would define a ballad? I've got a favorite one. Is it a love song? Is it a love song? Or can Danny boy. Is Danny boy a ballad? That's not really a love song. Not really. Is it not? I'm not really sure. I'm not really sure either. Yeah. Dj call song. Song up. Oh, that's a lovely ballad. And you think, well, it's a song, innit? They usually mean a love song. Is there more to a ballad than just a love song. And also you can have quite fast love songs, so they wouldn't be ballads. I like this, mate. I like it. But it's already a song. It's already a song. When does it become a ballad? Hmm. I like that a lot. I don't laugh, right. But I like to learn poems. It's a way of keeping my mind active as my dotage grows ever closer. And I'm trying to learn a sonnet at the moment, a Shakespeare sonnet. I'm having a right old time with it. And then guess what I stumbled across, Bernard, tell me. I stumbled across a recording. Pardon? No, that was just the phone buzzing. I don't know what happened there. I stumbled across a recording of Florence from Florence of the machine singing the sonnet. I am trying to learn to music written by Rufus Wainwright. No way would that be a ballad. You tell me, mate. We'll wait for Rufus to ring in and tell us. Thank you very much, Bernard. Nine minutes after twelve is the time Alan is in Woking. Alan, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Well, I love Brighton. I think the beach is a bit rubbish. I just want to know. You don't like the pebbles? I don't like the pebbles. Will Brighton beach ever become like Cocoa cabana Beach? Not in your lifetime, I would. Not in my lifetime, I would venture. I like this because there are different types of beaches, aren't there? And some of them are almost entirely made up of broken down shells and coral, as opposed to broken down pebbles, whether or not all of them are. I used to think that all sandy beaches used to be pebbly beaches, and then they'd sort of bumped against each other over the millennia so much that we ended up with sand. Right. Exactly. Yeah, me too. Yeah. So, yeah. So, yeah, basically, when. How long do I have to wait? So if we hung around for long enough, there would be no pebbles left? I know there would because big rocks would break into pebbles. I like that. Will Brighton beach be sand eventually, in time for Alan to leave his flip flops at home? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I don't like sandy beaches. I prefer pebbly beaches. No, I know that's odd. Not for the swimming of it, but I hate the way sand gets everywhere. I just don't like it. Some people are fine with it. All three other members of my immediate family, absolutely fine with it, think I'm ridiculous and hilarious in my sort of anti sand posturing, but I get. Right. Gets everywhere. That's the point. Not just up my nose. Ross is in thorough. Ross, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Ross, why does sweat smell differently in different parts of your body? Oh, Ross, mate, people are having a lunch. Yeah, well it's an important question. I don't know that it does smell differently in different parts of your body at the point of emergence. No, but if you go for a run, your head doesn't smell the same as your armpit. But it would if you had a hat on. No, I run with a hat. No, that doesn't work. Yes, but you're wiped? Yeah, yeah. All right. Okay. I mean it's not the most delicate of questions we've ever had on mystery hour or the most genteel, but it's obviously one that has bothered you in real life, as they say, it sparked me for a while. I've been meaning to call him why does sweat smell differently according to which part of the body it has emerged from? I like that a lot. Thank you, Ross. Eleven after twelve is the time. When does a song become a ballad? In other words, what's the definition of a ballad? Do all beaches eventually become sand, notably or chiefly, Brighton being the beach that we're most interested in? And why does sweat smell differently depending on which part of the body it has emerged from? Amy, is it Amy or Amy? Hi James, it's Amy. Amy is in ealing. Question or answer? Amy, carry on. My question is do animals, and dogs in particular, do they suffer from mental illnesses in the same way? Well, not necessarily in the same way, but do they suffer from the same mental illnesses as humans? So I'm thinking more about like things like paranoia, schizophrenia, bipolar. So I know that they, they suffer from depression and anxiety, but the more severe cases is what I'm wondering about. I mean you obviously dogs can have what we might loosely describe as mental health problems. I'd be amazed if they can be diagnosed specifically because you need to be able to speak to them to measure or work out what the delusion may be or what the symptoms might be, but I don't know, I love that mental health and dogs sort of almost just give me a ring and tell us anything interesting is where we are. Yeah, I'm hoping Doctor dog's listening. Yes, so am I. Now he probably would know. Let's find out. I mean, what do dogs suffer from mental illnesses in anything recognizable from the context of human mental illness? Crikey. Great questions we've got this week. That's 413 after twelve's a time. Heather is in East Dulwich Heather. Question or answer? Oh, question, please, James. Hello, Heather. Hello. Why, when I come back from my run, is my face very, very bright, beetroot red and stays that way for ages, and the rest of me is still my normal skin color. Yeah, I quite like that. Is it. I mean, is it, is it the thick, what could it be? I don't know. I feel we should know that between us, Heather. It should be. There should be an obvious answer presenting itself to us as we. I mean, is it the thinness of the skin, the. The closeness of the blood vessels to the surface of the skin? It has to be one. It has to be something like that. But I've just been meaning to do, you know, go red anywhere? I don't want to pry, but you don't go red anywhere else? No, everywhere else stays the same color. It's just my face and it stays really, really red for ages. Yeah. Okay. I like that as well. Quite anatomical this week, with the sweat and the. And the rosy faces. It's got a very unfamiliar, and for me at least, a very unpleasant air of exercise hanging over the first 15 minutes of mystery. But we will try to find out for you. Why does your face go red when you jog and no other part of your body? Do dogs get mentally ill in anything similar, in any way similar to humans? Why do we smell differently? Why does our sweat smell differently? Depending on where it comes from, will Brighton beach eventually be sand? Because all pebbles will eventually break down into sand. And when does a song become a ballad? Or what makes a given song a ballad? That's five questions on the board. Time now to encourage you to ring in with answers zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The time now is 1215. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery Hour is underway. A lot of requests for me to play out that clip of Boris Johnson's brilliant speech to the UN again, where he hilariously and powerfully cited the great frog Kermit in his pursuit of. Well, in his attempts to persuade the rest of the world to take the environment more seriously. God knows what's going to happen if they read any of the columns he used to write on the issue of the environment. Kermit the frog look like Albert Einstein. But hey, how? I can't because it's mystery hour and we don't do stuff like that during mystery hour. But it's available you can find it online. Mon is in Eastham. Mon. Question or answer? Hi, James question. Please carry on. Okay, so I've heard a lot of people say that central banks print money out of thin air for governments to borrow. My question is, where do the interest payments for borrowed money go to? Okay, are we sure that governments. I mean, this is very thin ice for me. The governments borrow from central banks? Yeah. I mean, I'd assume when you do like quantitative easing, the money has to come from somewhere. Right. So the bank of England loans the government the money. Right. I don't know that that's true. That bit there. And I'm highlighting my own ignorance here. That bit there sounds unlikely to me because the whole point of quantitative easing is it has to be finite, otherwise you end up with rapacious inflation. So they will print some money as the government and the central bank being, if you like, part of the state. But the rest of the money that they need, they have to borrow from elsewhere. Yeah. Well, how about the. And the interest is paid to whoever they've borrowed it from? Well, if they borrow from the central bank, where does the central bank? But I'm just not sure they do and nor are you. We're just presuming that they do. Yeah. We should have established this before you rang in. I've heard a lot of people say that central banks print money out of thin air. Like there is. No, but that's a different thing from. From. From. That's a different thing from borrowing, isn't it? Printing money out of thin air is a slightly unhelpful phrase, because where else are you going to print it from? Well, I mean, I would assume that they would like government bonds, don't they? All right, I'll put the question on the board. But if it turns out to be a rubbish question, then you're banned for a week. All right. I laugh that's a really serious sanction stroke punishment. Do governments borrow from central banks? And if so, where does the interest go? Gareth is in Birmingham. Gareth. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Gareth. It's. What is a ballad? Yes. A ballad is a story. Of course it is. I should have got that one. Oh, rather, if you go back to the medieval sort of, well, middle ages and you've got balladeers, you know, walking around with lutes, telling stories and putting it into a song made it easy for someone to remember and easy for people to understand. And it was also. It was also, you know, it was the first sort of showbiz, wasn't it is that you'd travel from court to court telling stories, usually, about whoever's caught it was and how brave they were. And that kind of history of brave Sir Gareth, he slayed six knights and that's why we're lucky that he's in our fights. And we love brave Sir Gareth. He's such a cool dude. Now it's time for the end of my song. Let's all have some food. That kind of thing would be a ballad. My night slaying career. You wear it very lightly upon your emerald sleeve, Sir Gareth. But, yes, I mean, I did a degree in popular music, and, believe it or not, you can do one of those. Where did you do it? In Northampton. Fantastic. And basically that sort of. Yeah. That idea of sort of commercial and touring and stuff is sort of. Would piano man by Billy Joel be a ballad? Would that be a ballad, piano man? Yes, it would. I think. I think often we link. Nowadays we link because we think of. You mentioned love songs earlier. Yeah. Love ballads is a genre of the ballad, and then rock ballad is a. Is a genre. You know, is a genre of the ballad. Living on a prayer by Bon Jovi is probably a ballad because it's about Tommy, who used to work on the docks. Union's been on strike. He's down on his luck. That's a ballad. And you remember the story. Yeah. You know, fresh Prince of Bel Air. Would that be a ballad? Because here is a story all about how it's announcing its ballad status in the opening line. Here is a story all about how my life got switched on upside down. Yeah. Yeah. There's very little between Will Smith and someone who played the loop 500 years ago. I think you're right. I think will smith 500 years ago. Probably go back even further than that. I bet they had balladeers in William the Conqueror's court. Probably well before that even. I bet the Saxons were the first who had the loot. Well, I bet when Christianity. Anyway, we're digressing slightly now. What are your qualifications, Gareth? Well, I'm a songwriter. Written any ballads lately, governor? No, but I might now about being on mystery out. Might try and steal the one you wrote earlier. It was quite good, that one. Yeah. Time for some food, you funky old dude. Round of applause for Gareth. He's now off to write the ballad of Gareth and James and their mystery hour adventures. 1223 is the time Tim's in. Leads. Tim. Question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. Carry on, Tim. So it's for the running and the flushing one while you get redder in your face. So the general concept about why you tend to get red when you exercise is your body temperature goes up. It's exactly the same as if you have a nasty infection, you get a temperature that way. Oh, yes. So your blood vessels basically is a way to lose heat. They vasodilate so they get slightly bigger as a way to lose heat through your skin, which is why you go redder, because your vessels are closer to the surface of your skin. That happens more in your face because you have a high percentage of capillaries in your face. So it's more obvious in your face. Again, just by actually say that. Although I didn't say capillaries. Yeah, capillaries. Capillaries. The key. That's what got you the round of applause, you rat fink. There's a tiny little blood vessels, basically. So that's a way of losing heat. It's a way when you run. So Amy doesn't have. Was it Amy who asked the question? I think it was Amy. Amy. Amy doesn't have Heather. I beg your pardon? Heather doesn't have capillaries as near the surface of her skin in any other parts of her body, basically, yeah. Okay, cool qualifications. I'm a nurse, so it's just anatomy, physiology knowledge, basically. Nicely played. You're a round of applause. That's perfect. So we will cross that one off and we've got the central banks question, the mental illness and dogs question, the sweat smelling differently question. We've done that one. And the Brighton beach question. So I can tell you now at 24 minutes after twelve, this would be a good time to ring in with a question. If you failed to get through earlier, we're picking them off a little quicker than usual. Zero three 4560-666-0973 if you're new to the program, then you have now heard how it works and you can join in. So give us a ring and get your question on the board. Zero 345-606-0973 Martin's in Ealing. Martin, what would you like to say? All right, question or answer? I should add. Sorry, what am I talking about? It's an answer for the sweat smelling different one. Yeah, go on. You basically have different bacteria in different bits of your body and they excrete different smells. So your sweat itself doesn't smell. It says it's the bacteria. Why would you have more different bacteria in different parts of the body? And remember, people are having their lunch, mate. I don't know the answer to that. I don't know the answer to that. But I don't know if I can believe you. Then what are your qualifications? I literally just watched the documentary on skin yesterday. Oh, that's all right. But no, I need more. I mean, it's a decent qualification if the answer sounds definitive. But why would I have different bacteria on my head from what I've got in my armpit? It's just a different, different world, isn't it? Is it a different world? Is it, Martin? So one is armpit world and the other is head world, is it? Is that it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's a whole new world, apparently. That's a good thing, because that means that the bacteria is doing a job of stopping you from getting athletes fun stuff like that. That's not. I mean, it's the beginning of an answer. It may even be half an answer. I was really sad because I was going to ring up and answer the ballads one as well. Musician. No. Well, you blew it. Should write a song about it. You could call it missed opportunities or mystery hour. I can't give you the round of applause, can I? You must acknowledge that, I think. Yeah, because I need to know why you haven't told us why the smell is different in different parts of the body. I don't think. Except to suggest that it's different bacteria. You don't know that bit. Sure, yeah. But I don't know why there's different types of bacteria and there might not be different back types of bacteria. It might not be really different types of bacteria. It's not just more or less. Bacteria will excrete a different smell. All right, well, I'm sure someone else will ring up and give you. Well, I feel bad now because you're pretty confident it's different types of bacteria, because that is a good enough answer. That's all you have to say? Yeah. It's a shame, because if I. If I was a. Well, don't talk yourself out of it. I might give it to you yet. Oh, just. Just give it to me. What if you're different types of. I don't understand why you'd have different types of bacteria in different parts of your body, though. That's the bit where I'm fast bit where I think you might have made a mistake. So now some bacteria. I mean, this is terrible. It's not. It's definitely not. I'm gonna give you half. I'm gonna give you half and then I'll save the other half for someone else. All right, yeah. I'll take a singular clap. Are you ready? No. I'll give you a whole half an applause, mate. None of that singular clap nonsense over here. But you have to pay attention because sometimes it can get lost in the ether. So here it is. That was quite long. Hang on, mate. We need. We need a bit of that back. Martin, can we have a bit of that back, please? Thank you. Good. Well played. Thank you, mate. 28 minutes after twelve is the time. I'm leaving now on the board because I don't think we went all the way. The beach question remains. The central bank question remains. And the dog with mental illness. Ah, not for long. Vieri is here, aka doctor dog. No prizes, forgetting which you're going to answer. You've got a minute to do it, Vieri, so make it sing. Hi, James. Yeah, I'll be quick. Yes, they can get mental illnesses, the usual. The most widespread ones are dementia and, yeah, depression, canine cognitive dysfunction, which is very similar to Alzheimer's. Basically, it's just a deterioration of. So, yeah, I was gonna say in the brain, the degenerative stuff they can get. But can they get. They can get that. The normal. They can get people PTSD? Yes, absolutely. For example, if a young dog has been bitten by a much bigger dog and it's hurt, of course they can. A large part of what you do as a dog trainer is teaching dogs to respond differently to different stimuli. In fact, the US army has a center in the states for PTSD. Dogs service dogs, really, that get PTSD? Yeah, they get. Usually, they found out that they get PTSD six months after the handler gets it, so they never used to treat the dogs and then the dog went into depression when the handler was getting out of it. So, yeah. So now they try to sense qualifications. I know, but not everybody listening will know. What are your qualifications? I'm Doctor dog and I work with dogs. Thank goodness, not humans. I envy you. Sorry, no offense, Keith. Round of applause for doctor dog. Cheers. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to Mistra with me, James O'Brien on LBC. If you've got a question, there's still room for it. If you can answer any of the questions already on the board, then, well, you know what to do. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1233 is the time. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where questions still in need of an answer include, will Brighton beach be sand soon? If so, how soon? Just a little bit more, perhaps. Yeah, there's half a round of applause. Going for the. For the final bit of the answer to the question of why sweat smells differently depending on which part of the body it is emanating from. That's a better word than emerging. Emanating. Glowing, even. And central banks and interest payments. I mean, who gets the interest? Do governments pay interest on money they borrow from central banks? There's a lot going on there. And quite possibly the most economically illiterate graduate of the London School of economics, I'm conscious that I may need a little bit of guidance even on the earliest parameters of that question. 1234 is the time. Speaking of economic illiteracy is a story we didn't talk about today, but remind me, we might do it tomorrow or later next week about whether or not a level math should be compulsory. It's a really interesting question there. I bet our mate Martin Lewis thinks it should be. Imagine how different your life would be if you had a level. Even if you think you're rubbish at maths, you'd be better at it if you'd done an A level. And everything from insurance policies to mortgages and rents and bank balances. I just. I thought that was really interesting. 1235 is the time. David is in Tunbridge Wells. David, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Brighton beach. Yes. Unfortunately, unless there are significant changes in the tidal flows along the south coast of England will always be a pebble beach. Why? Basically, the way things work with soil and rock is that as it descends down a river, the larger rocks, the boulders, get ground down into gravel and eventually down into sand, and then silt and then clay particles. And the pace of the water carries the smaller particles along. As the speed of the water drops, the larger particles drop out of suspension. So when you're on the coastline, the gravel that's on the beach at Brighton will gradually head down the coast and be reduced to sand, and will finally drop out somewhere where the water is slower. So a beach in one position on the coast, the next day, the sand or the gravel on that beach will have moved down the coast and be slightly smaller, and the material on the beach will be deposited afresh. So the gravel that's coming into the beach, Brighton, will always be the same sort of size. You're probably looking down towards Worthing and Hastings, round the corner, where you get the shade of the headland where the sand will be deposited, because the speed of the tide has slowed down, and that will be in perpetuity then, as long as we did something to actually change the flow rates along the shore, there put in breakwaters or groins and they would slow the tidal flow along there and you would then get sand accreting, which would cover over the beach. Okay. So quite often, groins or breakwaters are introduced to actually encourage sand. It tends to upset the neighbouring town that used to have a sand beach, because you've just stolen their sand then, which does actually happen, doesn't it? Oh, yes. Oh, I love that. That's a great answer. Qualifications? Civil engineer and geotechnical engineer. So I deal with a lot of coastal works and soil and rock is my general stocking trade nicely. Great work, David. Round of applause, please. Thank you. No, thank you. 1237 is the time and Dan is in Southfield. Dan, question or answer? I'd say question, James. Carry on, Dan. Question is, how long, roughly, does a. Does a sort of standard brick built house last for. Obviously, they don't last forever. Eventually, I don't know, the mortar breaks down and they collapse. But there's loads of victorian houses around, some regency houses around, but kind of war aside, obviously the pyramids have been around a very long time, but I'm assuming, you know, all of the victorian houses that we have around now won't be here in, I don't know, 500 years. Well, it depends, doesn't it? I mean, at risk of sounding dull. Actually, it's not dull at all, but at risk of sounding unhelpful. Oh, you're very kind. You'd be surprised. Keith, behave. You know, it depends on repointing, for example, doesn't it? You need to do your repointing at some point, or, you know, if you can't repoint, you might pebble, dash or paint. There's all sorts of things you can do to prolong the life, your average brick house. But will they last? You know, so will they still if you do all that? So if you repoint your victorian house, is it likely still to be around in a thousand years time or always, will someone say, eventually, you can repoint all you like, but the bricks will break down, the mortar in between that, because obviously pointing so sort of on the surface, isn't it sort of almost cosmetic? I mean, I'm sure it protects. No, it's not. It's not just cosmetic. Well, your house will fall down sooner if you don't get it repointed. It costs us a fortune. How long? I don't know. I know, I know. It's a lot of work. I don't understand the question, because it's going to vary depending on where you are. In the world. It's going to vary depending on where you are in the country. It's going to vary depending on where you are in just your typical English, sort of, let's say. Why do you want to know? Why do you want to know what you worried about? I might know a man. I might know a fella. I just kind of. Because most of the housing stock in London is. Seems to be sort of either edwardian or victorian. And foundations, these victorian houses have shallow foundations, so that can have an effect on me, you know. I don't know if there's such a thing as an average house, Dan. Yeah, I guess so. I guess so. I really don't. Okay, let's say a victorian or a house built today, then a modern. A modern. How long will it last? Everything else, how long will it, all things being equal, no refurbishments or restorations. All things being equal, an average house built today, how. How long before it would become uninhabitable or until it actually falls down? Yeah, I'm guessing that they get knocked down before they become sort of most of them because of the land value. So at some point they sort of get worn out. If you get an answer to this question, I'll give you the money myself. Seriously. We're talking about land values now and knocking houses down to make way for new redevelopments. Here's a house. How long until it falls down? Yeah, yeah. How long? How long will the materials. He's off again. He's all forget, in the absence of earthquakes, landslides and sundry other acts of God, how long would the average house last? Yeah. Right. Yeah. Okay. You know that. Yeah. Thank you. Got there in the end. It's 08:20 I'm joking. It's 20 to one. You're listening to James I pride on LBC. In the absence of all sort of freakish occurrences, average house built today, how long would it last? I quite like that question, actually. I mean, presumably it has a bearing on mortgages and things like that, doesn't it? I mean, the survey would, but an average house built today with no unexpected external factors, what's the average life expectancy of a house? Yes, I do like that question. 1240 is the time back to Tunbridge Wells? Tunbridge Wells is getting a bit of a. Do you hear someone else ringing from Tunbridge Wells, Peter? And that almost acts as a call to arms. And you think, gosh, people from Tunbridge Rose are getting on the show today. I think I'll ring in after all. Or is it just a coincidence? Well, my wife's been on me for ages to bring in and ask this question, because every time I cook jam, it comes out the same colour as the food. Except gooseberry jam, which comes out a different color, comes out red. That's my question. Why does gooseberry jam not come out green? When strawberry jam comes out red, raspberry jam comes out red. BlackBerry jam comes out dark, BlackBerry colored, etcetera. Apricot jam comes out apricot colored. I don't know. I've never cooked any. Well, I think you've eaten it. Yeah, probably. Yeah. Yeah, I think you're right there. So gooseberry jam is red. Well, it comes out reddish. Hang on a minute. Does it come out red or reddish? There's a big difference. Well, if I was comparing green and red, I would say it was closer to red than green. Okay. But it looks nothing like strawberry jam. It's a sort of rose. Is it like a rose? A rose of jams, perhaps? Well, maybe, but, you know, it's only gooseberries in it, so. And it always not worries me. But I always think, what am I putting there to make worry would be a bit strong. Oh, my God. My gooseberry jam is pale pink. Oh, ye gods and little fishes. What's occurring? It's going to be all about the pectin in it. No. Well, I know because other foods have as much pectin as. But the darkness of the other bits of it would. Would. Shut up. Oh, Brian, I haven't got a Scooby doo. Right, you're on. Why is Peter's gooseberry jam pink? Yes. Can we say pink? We're thinking pink. More than red. Yeah. Okay, Pinky. Yeah. Pinkish. Let's go reddish. Reddish. Pink. All right. Reddish pink. Why isn't it green? That's the real question. Yeah, exactly. It's not easy being gone. Now we're back to him again. Thank you very much. Pizza. Why is Peter's got. How much jam do you make in an average year? Well, I've got. I suppose this year I've made about 30 or 40 jars. It's quite because you've got fruit trees and fruit bushes of your own. Yeah. And we don't know what to do with it half the time. In the garden or the allotment. No, garden. Garden. You don't need a big garden to get a lot of fruit. I know you don't. Where I live, oddly, I couldn't work it out because most people have got apple trees in their garden. But of course, it used to be orchards where we are used to be prior to the. But whatever the Royal Horticultural Society was before it became the Royal Horticultural Society. So we've got fruit trees all over. I've got figs and apples and pears in our garden, but, um, I haven't made jam out of any of them. 1240 is the time. It's time I started, time I tried. Why is. Why is Peter's gooseberry jam pink? Zero. 345-606-0973 Leo is in Canary Wharf. Now, if I was a geographical determinist, I'd suggest that you're going to answer the money question. I am indeed. There you go. Carry on. So. So, yeah, so, treasuries. Treasuries issued the issue bonds. Yes. It's quite simple. Central banks buy them and the interest gets paid by ultimately always the bondholder. So the central bank keeps that bond on its balance sheet and pays interest to itself. Yeah, correct. So either keeps, in the case of quantitative easing, either keeps the interest proceeds and reinvest them again and buying more bonds, or it just sits on them and eventually the bonds expire. It's a bit of a. It's a bit of a scam, then, really. How so what? Albeit a scam that holds up all international economies? Well, yeah, I mean, ultimately it's printed. It's printing money, just not the direct way of printing money, as in the old school way, which now would be called helicopter money, where. Which is sort of zimbabwean style levels of inflation and what have you. Yes, which would. Yeah, correct. That's a great example. Which. Otherwise, you know, the central bank would pay money directly into someone's account. So the bonds act as a firebreak, in a sense, then, or as a sort of. In effect, what they're trying to do is keep the bond market going as it does and treasury is on the hook for its own debt. However, you know, there is a central bank which. Which buys that debt and thereby creates the money into the system. Qualifications. I work with bonds. That'll do nicely. And if you want, I can. I can attempt the answer on the sweat question as well. That's not allowed, unfortunately. I know what you city boys are like. You don't think the rules apply to you, but I'll tell you now, pal, they apply equally to everybody on this program. No special treatment, no velvet ropes, no vip sections on mystery hour. Suck it up. That was a brilliant answer. Very helpful. I say brilliant because I understood it. Round of applause. Thank you, Leo. 1245 is the time. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC it's coming up to ten to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC Mystery. I continue. So, three questions left, all requiring answers. And with my slightly premature departure this morning, we should, all things being equal, be able to clear the board. So we need to know why. And this is half a round of applause up for grabs, because we accepted the answer involves bacteria. We just need a little more detail on why we smell differently. Or sweat. In other words, smells differently or sweating smells differently, depending upon which part of the body it is occurring in. That was a lovely answer from Leo, wasn't it? I don't know how immature you are, but when he said, I work with bonds, my internal voice said, James Bonds. Straight away, I work with bonds. James Bonds. I said to Keith, did you think that as well? He goes, no, because I'm an adult. So I thought, I just sort of wonder how many other people, when Leo said, I work with bonds, in their internal voice goes, James Bonds? No, just me, apparently. How embarrassing. The gooseberry jam. Peter's gooseberry jam is unexpectedly pink. It's not confined to Peter. I can stress. I've just been sent a photograph of somebody else's gooseberry jam. Or more pertinently, Jamie's mum's gooseberry jam. With apologies for the fact that the jar is so empty it doesn't last long in our house. A bit of a yen for gooseberry jam now. And what was the other one? We'll find out in a minute. Oh, the average house price. How long does a house last for all things being equal? Paula is in Bromley. Paula, question or answer? I've got an answer, Jane. Carry on, Paula. So I'd like to answer the question on why sweat smells differently in different parts of the body. Excellent. And so I would like to confirm the previous listener, who did say that it was due to different types of sweat glands as well as different bacteria. But I can perhaps elaborate a little bit further. Well, I don't know. Are you a microbiologist? I am indeed, James. All right, well, carry on, then. So there are different types of bacteria that will inhabit different parts of your body, and these will produce metabolical byproducts. And the smell of these byproducts will differ based on the different environmental factors that are involved. So it will be things such as temperature, moisture, availability. You're hotter under your armpit than you are on the top of your head. Therefore the sweat is going to behave differently. The bacteria is going to behave differently, indeed. Hotter and wetter, for sure. That's all we need qualifications. Microbiologists. Round of applause. You just be done. Thank you. No, thank you. Mike's in Marlowe. Mike, I've got a minute. Make it sing. Hi, James. Houses depends very much on how they're built, but we were always taught at college that a modern house was designed to last 100 years. It will last a lot longer than that, obviously, but it's about so many factors. The materials that went into it, the weather, whether the walls, north facing salty air. We'll do a house in. There's 101 things you get. Ballpark figure. 100 years per house. Roughly. Roughly. Qualifications. But you think, well, I've been building nearly. No, that'll do. Round of applause. I've just got one more now. Well, plumlee or the gooseberry? Question or answer? Hi. Is there an answer about the gooseberry jam? Yes. Quickly. It will depend on the variety of the gooseberry. It's quite natural for it to be pink. Why? Why is it natural for it to be pink? Well, because the gooseberries start off with a pink pigmentation in the skin. The longer. Why are they green? Jam for. Yes. Then the darker the color will be. I know that bit. But why is it pink, not green in the first place? Because it's taking the pigmentation from inside the natural variety, not from the skin. Round of applause. Pink inside. It's just the skin that's green. There we go. A full board. Oh, we got there in the end.