Why do we always have salt and pepper on the table?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien, and you are listening to mystery out with me, James O'Brien, live on LBC, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that's not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you're wondering what it is, if you've joined the th family quite recently and you haven't heard it before, then you're in for a bit of a surprise, actually. It's mostly entertaining, funny and informative. It has no, or very, very little to do with what's currently in the news, and it offers you an opportunity to show off the fruits of your learning, something that seems to be increasingly unfashionable in these days of Google and Twitter. You can get answers to almost every question pretty much immediately, which I feel, and I know this makes me sound like a pompous old goat, I feel it somehow I somehow lessens the human experience, the pleasure, particularly as a parent, of sharing knowledge with your child that you've accrued, you know, not how, over the course of your time upon this earth, and to see in their little eyes the admiration and the love ignite. Those were the days. My eldest now has just reached the eye rolling stage. At any point I make to inform or enlighten her. Youngest is still hanging in there. Youngest still thinks I know everything but the oldest. That ship has sailed, never, ever to return to port, sadly. But the point I'm making, I can remember, the point I'm making is that this is not a feature where you can look stuff up. If you hear somebody else ask a question when they ring in, zero, 345-606-0973 being the number that you need. If you hear somebody ask a question to which you happen to know the answer, then ring in and tell us, don't look it up or cheat or anything like that, because I will be able to tell. I have an astonishing power of mind reading when it comes to mystery hour. And the point is that it doesn't matter how you know it, whether or not you've got a PhD in applied mathematics, whether you're like our earlier caller from Cornwall talking about isotopes, who was clearly possessed of more scientific qualifications than I could conceive of. Or it might just be that you saw it on the telly last night, because when you hear the questions, you'll realize that they range from the banal to the brainiac. And your reason for knowing the answer could be that you saw ray mears do it on the telly last month. Or it could be that you are actually the Regis professor of theology at Convol and Keys College. It's seven minutes after twelve. If you're still wondering what the hell I'm blathering on about, then plus a change. But also just listen, suck it in c for a while and you'll soon get the hang of it. And do join in if you want, especially if you've been toying with the idea of getting stuck in but you didn't necessarily know if you were ready for a rampage or a set to. This is always have we ever had a row with anyone on mystery Hour? One of the official mystery hour archivists will get in touch with me now via Twitter to remind me of the times that we did actually manage to have some ill tempers on mystery hour. But at this point in proceedings, I can't remember any couple of phone lines. 30 345-606-0973 Alex and Beth will be. I sound like a pilot now. Don't know, a chief steward on an airplane. Alex and Beth will be handling your calls during this mystery hour. Please be polite to them at all times and attempt to recognise when they are encouraging you to clear off without asking your question. They will probably never be rude enough to say, that's rubbish. Clear off. That's why they're on that side of the class and I'm on this side of the class. But you can probably take a hint. Don't be dull, don't ask me any questions about driving. And try not to be repetitious, which is tough for you to police. But if you head over to LBC dot co dot UK comma, you can see a sort of history of Mister Aaron. A lot of the questions that may have popped into your mind. If you're new to this, you'll be able to establish whether or not they've already been dealt with. Let's start in Brentwood. Ramsay's there. Ramsay, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Ramsay. Okay. I want to know why everyone always has salt and pepper on their table. Why not have two random spices like oregano and chili pepper? That's a curious mixture of brilliant and bonkers, isn't it? That question? Yeah, it's from my wife, to be honest. Is it really? Yeah. I mean, I don't know. Obviously, I don't know. But I presume that it is some sort of culinary evolution. Salt and pepper providing flavors, ease of availability. But now that everything's really easily available, I have chilli sauce on meals that, frankly, have no business having chilli sauce applied to them. So I wonder whether condiments have evolved a little bit further than salt and pepper and we just haven't moved with the times. It would have been availability originally, wouldn't it? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Because there are always other things available, you know, like what they called bay leaves and all that sort of stuff that would have been widely. Sprinkle a bay leaf on your chips, Ramsay, are you, mate? So, ease of application, ease of availability, pungentness per gram. I don't know who's going to be able to tell us this. Do you think there is such a thing as a condiment historian? I think there's someone who's going to know out there. Fundamental. Someone who works in one of these factories or something. I hope so. It's a brilliant question. Why didn't your wife ring me herself? She's not an avid listener. Because she's at work. I sort of work shift, so I always get to listen. Pass this off as your own, aren't you? We get a definitive answer. You're going to say, I was just thinking about it, love. And have you ever. Maybe it's this, maybe it's that. We'll see what we can do. I love that question, actually. The more I think about it, the more I love it. Ramsay, great work. Thank you. Ten minutes after twelve, Elliott is in Guildford. Elliot, question or answer? Hi there, James. Question, please. Carry on, Elliot. I'm a commercial launch engineer, so I fixed, mate. I can't understand what you're saying. Get your phone out of your hat. Was it really in your hat? Yeah, it was in my hand. Small. A hat. It's a very bad phone line. Give me the question quickly. Machines, why do they work? Why doesn't the colour go onto other clothing? And it just magically goes onto a little sheet? You just have to talk me through what a color catcher is. Terrible phone line. Basically, a colour catcher is a little sheet of fabric or something that you put in a washing machine. And you can put colors and darks and lights in. And when the colour runs, it just goes onto that sheet and it doesn't go onto the other hose. And why is that a mystery? Well, why doesn't it go on to the other clothes? What was so special? Because it all goes into the color catcher you just told me. Yeah. What's so special about that color catcher? That it absorbs. Absorb. It's got. It's got high absorbability. Yeah. I'm not buying that. Nor am I. Frankly, I'm ashamed that I even tried to sell it to you. Elliot, how'd the color catchers work? I like that. 0345. Of course I knew what a color catcher was. I was just pretending not to, for the benefit of people listening to the program who don't do as much laundry as I do. Just waiting for my phone to ping. Now with misses O'Brien. Sean's in Glasgow. Sean, question or answer? Hi, James, a question. Carry on, mate. On the back of a standard visa debit card. Wiser. Hang on a minute. We've got new staff today. I worry that I have. We have. We briefed Alex properly on what's interesting and what's not interesting. Color. How the color catch did you put this one through? Look at them blaming each other. This is horrible. Crikey, it's like parliament. Sorry. I'm sorry, Sean. I possibly haven't sounded as enthusiastic as I should. You were asking me a question about the digits on the back of your bank card. Yeah. Why is there seven when you only have the last three? Well, the others are on the front as well. But why? Why are you on the other side? The first four of the seven are the last four of the twelve on the front of the card. Yeah, I can see that, but why? Why they there? Why they not just have three numbers in the back? They have done in the past? I mean, this is one of the worst questions ever, mate, isn't it? What is answer, then, why? Well, I don't know, but I really don't care. Why do you care? I don't know, just everything. What's the weather like? Did you know before you rang me that the four are the mirror of the last on the front? No, I've never paid that much attention to no, you right, pal. You've come on the radio to ask me a question about the numbers on the back of your credit card and now you're kind of condescending to me by saying, oh, I've never really paid it that much attention. Really? No, you geek. Well, I just want to know why you. That's what just happened here. That's what just happened here. You phoned me up to ask a question about credit card numbers and when I pointed out a slight flaw in your question, or augmented your knowledge of the issue, you kind of called me a geek there, Sean. No, I just want to know why. What, those other four numbers. But now that you know that the first four numbers on the back of the card are the same as the last four, numbers on the front, are you still as intrigued as you were when you didn't realize this nugget of knowledge? Um, still intrigued, yeah. Why you put them on the back, then, so that you can check that it matches up with the front. It's an anti forgery device. I'm not having that either. All right, I'll put it on the board, mate. But seriously, I can't believe the heads are going to roll. I'll tell you what numbers are going to come out of this call. P 45s. Herman's in Cheltenham. Herman, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on, Herman. Salt and pepper. Yes. I'm going to go back historical here. Okay. CatheRine the Medici, that married the french king. Yes. She took her cooks and taught the French how to cook. Yes. They remember the Medici controlled trade with east. Yes. Pepper coming in from Zanzibar and places like that. In Italian, you have a verb called sal pimentare. Sal pimentare. And it means salt. Pepper. Something to add. Salt and pepper seasoning. Exactly. The pepper normally to hide the rotten flavors of meat. Mask. To mask. To mask the bouquet of rot. Yes. The French did not adopt the word. They don't have it. The Spanish do. Sal pimentar. Do they really? Sal pimentar. But the French just have du celle et de prove. Exactly. And it is now just convention. So theoretically, it could have been abandoned because we could. It might be nicer to have chili sauce and, I don't know, oregano flakes on the table. But salt and pepper are pretty effective spices. There's a combination of taste and history. The only thing you need to bring flavor out of food, they're the kings and queens of condiments. Give you the proportion. Go on. Yeah. Do a simple cooking. Salt. Yes. Seven parts for one part pepper. You're serious? And that's a good seasoning for meat. That's all you need. Qualifications. Herman. Economist, cook. Love history. When did you pick up this little nugget of knowledge? Oh, it's a brilliant show on basque television. It's a. It's a cook with seven Michelin stars. Seven? Oh, you mean more than one restaurant? Yeah. Yeah. And it's a brilliant video show for the secrets of Michelin cooks. What's his name? What's the chef called? David de Jorge. David la Jorge. David. David of George in Spanish. David de Jorge. David de Jorge. Yeah. Round of applause for Herman. Thank you. Good work, Herman. That is your answer? Actually, it is the most effective mode of seasoning. So the Medicis, prior to settling upon salt and pepper, or indeed, the cork cooks would no doubt have tried a veritable cornucopia of condiments. But salt and pepper are your staples, your solids. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery hour is upon us. A really boring question about credit cards. If you can answer that, you'd be very welcome. And was that it? I've got the salt and pepper question as well. We've done that. We only got two. I've got to stop waffling and take more calls. For example, Jesse's in east ly. Jesse, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Jesse. Right. So the CBC code on the back of your card is not electronically stored. Only the print on the card and the merchant provider knows that code. So if your card gets cloned. Yes. Someone goes online to try and pay for something using that card. They'll have the card number on the front of your card and have the expiry date, but they won't have an electronic copy of the CBC code so they won't be able to make the majority transactions they want to make. Also, for a telephone transaction where you say, for example, you phone up and you order pizza from your favorite pizza provider or whatever, they'll also ask for that last three just in the back of the code because you need to physically see that code in order to obviously provide it. I'm going to give you a round of applause because you're a top man, but don't go away because I'm going to use you as a tool with which to teach my producer a lesson because you're right. But this question was so boring that it isn't actually the one you answered because the question what's the security code for on the back of the card? Would have been quite interesting and you just answered it perfectly, which is why I gave you a round of applause without even checking your qualifications because I can even tell from here that you work in it. Security, right? Yeah. I'm too nerdy. Yeah. The question, and you're not going to believe this, it was so boring that I can't believe it got put through, was why do we have the four digits preceding the three digits on the back of some cards? It's not even true of all cards. Some cards have only got on the signature strip. They've only got the three numbers. Is that the CBC code? That's the card verification code. Yeah. The CVC, not CBC. The last four numbers on the front, the card number are duplicated on the back of some cards in the same box prior to the CVC. That's what the question was about. Have you ever heard a more boring question than that in your life? I do. And I saw. I may. I may know the answer to that. There are some cards that are not so. For example, American Express may have that and I believe. I can't verify it. I believe it's because they have a longer basic version of their own CBC code which includes the last four digits on the back of the. I've got it on two of the cards in my wallet. One is from Lloyds, one is from first direct and I haven't got it on the one from Santander. Okay, that case, I'm speaking rubbish then, am I? So I'm just. I'm not challenging your analysis. I'm just seeking to dissuade you from trying to pretend this isn't one of the worst questions that we've ever had or missed here. I'm sorry. Do not tend to agree with you on that. Yeah. Thank you. Carry on. Give them another round of applause. You write this down. Seriously, it's not hard. Angela is in Sheffield. Angela, question or answer? It's a question. Yes. I'd like to know, why is it impossible to contract HIV or AIDS from mosquito bites? How do you know it is? Well, apparently it is. It's impossible. But you can. You can catch malaria, you take tablets, but if they are drinking blood, why can you not contract HIV or AIDS? Because you're positing the notion of a mosquito drinking blood from someone who's got HIV and then going off to bite someone who hasn't got HIV and they'd infect them. But how would the HIV blood get into the uninfected person? Because they then go into their blood and drink their blood. So presumably there's some transference there between. But how much on the tip of a mosquito's spike, how much blood could there conceivably be? But it only needs to be on a little bit, doesn't it? It doesn't have to be. I don't know. That's the question. Well, I suspect that's the answer. If you're right, and I've never heard that you can't contract HIV from a mosquito, but to be honest, it's not something. I've never looked into it. I imagine that the quantities are so. So infinitesimal that you wouldn't be able to contract anything from what's left over on a mosquito stinger. From the last feller that he bit, possibly. All right, you're not taking that, are you? No. No. All right, I'll put it up. Why have you. Why have you wonderings? Why have you mental meanderings headed off in this direction? Angela? I used to live abroad. I lived abroad in many, many years in different countries, and I always had to take malaria precautions. I just. It just crossed my mind one day. Why can you not, you know, is there a more serious consequence of getting bit by a mosquito? Why can't you have HIV and AIds? Yeah, no, fair enough. I mean, it is. Yeah. I mean, you catch malaria, then there's obviously some ability to transfer. So why not catch something else that we think of as being transferable via blood? Danny is in boreham wood. Danny, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Danny. So when you are pushing two magnets together and they're repelling against each other, that force never seems to die out. It seems to be perpetual, which doesn't make sense to me, because energy can't be created or destroyed. It's never ending. If you stuck him in a vice, even if the vice was strong enough to keep it together, and then you undid the vice, ten years later, they ping apart. They're always pushing. It doesn't run out. So don't understand it. Nor does gravity. Does it? Are you there? Yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah. I don't know. But does that. I mean, that. So this notion that we've got of what perpetual motion means or permanent force is probably flawed. Our science isn't strong, you and me. I mean, gravity doesn't run out either, I guess. Magnets linked to gravity. A magnets link to gravity. This is high powered stuff. We need to get the fellow from Cornwall back. I don't think they are. I don't think they are, because you can just get a. Yeah, but you can get, like, just a rock that has no magnetic force or field, but it's still affected by gravity, so don't think they're the same thing. So where do magnets get their power from? There you go. All right. I like it. Cheers. See ya. Keith's in Bexhill. Keith, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Keith, when you buy a suit or a jacket, your tailor, the pockets are always sewn up. They are. Why? Um, so that it doesn't get creased when it's ironed. It's true, mate. Are you sure? I'm 100% positive. Well, regular listeners will attest that my only genuine field of expertise is menswear. So what. What you have is during transit, you want to minimize the amount of movement. Of cloth that there can be. And sewing up the pocket means that you won't have the pocket lining getting scrunched up or moved around in a way that would then make the jacket look more creased when you tried it on. Think about it. It's not just the pocket lining. If the pocket is sewn shut, then it can't get crammed onto a coat hanger in transit in a way that would have the pocket open and. And then sticking out. Do you see what I mean? Getting all creased? It just minimizes the amount of creasing. Okay. Oh, mate, you say. You don't sound convinced. I spent five years in menswear, man and boy. Oh, you did, didn't you? Yes, I've heard you say that before. All right, I'm going to do my party trick on you. All right. Ready? Yeah. How tall? How tall are you, Keith? 500. 1042 regular? Yes. Now, do you trust me? Yes. Coming up to 12:30. If I have got that wrong, feel free to correct me, but I didn't get a suit right size wrong. It's coming up to 12:30. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a number of your own, or if you can answer the questions about magnets, mosquitoes done the credit cards, we've done the Medicis, or indeed, soup pockets. If, in the unlikely event of me not having got that 100, 100% correct in the first place, you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we will continue with mister e imminently. I would refer you back briefly to events in the first hour, the conversation about the escalating situation vis a vis Russia, because social media appears to have not noticed that France has now come behind Theresa May fall square, and so have many members of the labor front bench. So stop telling me that Jeremy Corbyn is just following international law without being able to tell me what international laws you're talking about. Or indeed telling me that we're just doing due process and waiting for the evidence because the secretary of state for defence, the Labour party's shadow defence secretary of state, now disagrees. So ask yourself how your party is being managed if you think that the shadow defence secretary is somehow in contradiction of the leader. And for a third leg of the same stool, the leaders, chief spokesman Seamus Milne. Three different policy positions, one party electable. You tell me. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mistria is underway. Where do magnets get their power from? And don't laugh if that is a silly question, because me and the chap who asked it think it's brilliant, why don't mosquitoes transport or infect human beings with HIV? And there is some chatter about the suit pockets question, but I'm sticking with mine for the time being. If you've got a question of your own that you'd like to get on the board, the number you need remains zero. 345-606-0973 Cameron's in Edinburgh. Cameron, question or answer? Hi, answer, please. Carry on. So when the lady asked about whether HIV can be transmitted through mosquitoes, basically. Short answer is that it can't, because the mosquito basically can't survive in the. Sorry, the HIV can't survive in the mosquito's gut and malaria can. Malaria can, yeah. So malaria matures in the mosquito's gut, whereas HIV will just die, so it can't replicate and then can be transmitted. I mean, forgive me if this makes me sound even more ignorant than I do already, but why would it have to involve the gut? Why couldn't it just be a bit of blood left over on the. On the sucker from the last bloke that they drank blood from? So I think, firstly, if, if you imagine it on the end of the mosquito's beak, if you like. Yeah, beak, that's the word I'm looking for. We'll call it a beak then. Basically, I don't think, be able to survive in the conditions where it's not got any nutrients. So HIV needs to be in a bloodstream almost. Yeah, it needs to be in the bloodstream. So, I mean, otherwise it dies. I think the main reason would also be that, like the woman said, there's just not enough on the mosquito's beak to actually cause any significant infection. I mean, you know, if there's someone with. There wasn't a woman that said that was me. Oh, is it yourself? Yeah. If you get, say, for example, someone who has a sort of a needle sick injury with someone with HIV, if they have a low viral count, which essentially means that they don't have much hiv in them, there's such a small chance infection. Yeah. So, same principle there. Qualifications? Medical student. I'll do nicely. Round of applause for Cameron. 1238 is the time. Thank you, Cameron. Professor Hal is here of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. But it can't be, to answer the mosquito question, because we've just done that. And that means it's either suit pockets or magnets. It's magnets, James. Carry on. And it is a delightful question, if I may. Oh, good. I'm glad. Okay, so I'm going to use the analogy of springs, and then in the alternative, with echoes of our lovely discussions yesterday, we'll talk about gravity, the original contributor. If they were pushing a spring in and a spring pushed back, they wouldn't bat an eyelid somehow, because it's an invisible form. They are batting an eyelid. Eyelids are being battered. They are furious. No, there's furious batting of eyelids going on here. And the answer is that you've got two atoms facing different ways in one magnet and another magnet, and they just don't like each other, so they use a magnetic force to repel. But what he was asking is, where does the energy come from? So let's go the other way. Suppose two magnets shoot together. You might imagine that there's some kinetic energy because they're moving, that energy comes back when they're being pulled apart. So we are energy. So the spring is the really useful image, isn't it? Yes. As is gravity. Yes. Imagine, if you will, you have to push a car up a hill. You have to put energy in. You get all that energy back again. If the car rolls down the hill, you know, better off and no worse off. And that's because, of course, you have to push it up to bump start it and then come down again. So it's gravitational potential, spring potential and its magnetic potential. Its potential energy turning into kinetic energy. Round of applause for Professor Hal, I think. Look at that. Thanks for yesterday as well, Hal. It was a special hour, that, wasn't it? I really, really enjoyed it. Good. So did I. I was cloud nine on the way home, which is odd, considering that we were marking the passing of Professor Stephen Hawking. But we managed to do it with the help of people like Hal in such an utterly lovely way that it left a smile on a lot of people's faces and perhaps even the odd tear on a few cheeks. 1240 is the time. Right. I've got three finalized free. I've got room for more questions. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If we're doing an etymology question, are we sure that it's real? Ian is in Stepney. Ian, question or answer? Afternoon, James. It's a question. Go on. And I believe it's real. It's the etymology of a cockney rhyming slang, if I may imagine Alan Ford and Ray Winston covertly meeting the top glass and steel rooftop in the remake of the Sweeney by Nick Love. Yeah. And then Ray Winston says, I haven't seen it, but I'll tell you why. That's right. He says, you've got a yogurt. And he hands him a gun. No, this is rude, mate. This is a rude one. You might not realize that yourself, but you can look it up yourself. John's in Stratford. John, question or answer, James? Question. Carry on, John. Right. I was in the gym the other day. I was up in the gymnasium doing a bit of a workout. Doing a bit of a. Get a bit of sweat on. Right. What a lovely image, John. Thanks for sharing that. So I go down into the sitting sauna, where they've got the swimming pool outside, and I'm thinking to myself, when they're swimming, do they sweat? If they do sweat, how would you know? Well, you'd weigh them before they went in, and you'd wear them after they came out, I suppose, wouldn't you? James, who weighs their self before they go swimming? You asked me how you'd know, mate. I'm giving you. I'm giving you a theory. Come on. I thought to myself today, with all the questions that were being answered, I thought, I've got a bit on the day. This is a prime opportunity. It's a very. It's a very good question. But is it. What is it? Is it. Do you sweat when you are swimming? Is that the question that we're asking? Yes, please. Okay. The answer is yes. Would you know? Well, you'd have to weigh yourself before you went in, and then weigh yourself when you got out again. I mean, what would you want someone who sounds cleverer than me to answer your question, really? Don't you? Well, you're a very clever man. You're very kind. You're very clever. You're very kind. Right. Thank you. What I do is I need someone who sounds like a little bit cleverer than you on this field. Maybe the professor's gone now. He's only. He's been on twice in two days. We can't be doing any of that. I shall. I shall find out. For I know that you do sweat when you're swimming, for a variety of reasons, but my evidence is observational. You want a scientific explanation, don't you? Yes, if that's possible. No, we'll definitely. I was on once before, answering a question about the lions and lion cubs, and you said, you love me. You said, I love you, man. So after this, I hope you still love me. There is no diminishment in my regard for you, John. Not one iota. In fact, that image of you all oiled up after coming out of the gym and heading down the sauna. It's possible. It's possible that my regard has gone even higher. Eastbourne. Martin, question or answer? Hello, James, I've got a question. Go on. And when we have, like, a national day, like, there's all sorts of national days. Who actually dictates them? Well, it depends which day you're talking about, doesn't it? Well, there was one, like, national doughnut Day. Yeah, well, that just a pr company, so, I mean, who's going to challenge them is the problem. So you. You weren't. Well, anyone could say, oh, it's national, whatever. Yeah. So the question is, how much pr coverage have you got? How many. How many tame journalists. Journalists can you persuade to say on their radio shows that today is national Doughnut Day? Sometimes they're linked to charities. In fact, usually they're linked to charities, so that makes it easier to persuade people in the media to spread it around a bit. But I think. Or it'll be linked to a sort of health push, like national no smoking day, which might have governmental or department of health backing, but in terms of whether or not you need to jump any hurdles or clear any regulations to suddenly you and I could now say, it's National Martin day. Be nice to martins. And it is a good idea, but all it depends on is how far and wide we can get our message. Do you see? Yeah, yeah. It's a bit boring. But your question basically is, who authorizes and regulates them? And the answer is, nobody. That's interesting. Is it? No, seriously, is it? Kind of. Not really. It would have been interesting. It's a good question, but it's one of those good questions that admits a fairly rubbish answer. What made you think about it? Anything specific? Music. Just something. I lay there thinking about something. We've all been there, Martin. We've all been there. It's coming up to 1245. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where. What day could we launch? We should do National Darts Day. There probably is already one. I may and I can't share this with you fully yet, because we haven't checked the provenance. I may have come across my first example of our darts theory coming back round again. You know how I explained to you that darts was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth when his yeoman yeomanry were unable to do archery practice because it was raining? So they all came into the manor house and he invented darts. It's completely made up, but listeners to mystery out are passing it off as real in the hope that eventually it will come back to us and someone will say, oh, do you know that the Earl of Dartmouth invented darts? And we won't tell them that it's not true. We'll just have a quiet smile to ourselves and then share it with each other on the program. I may have had my first example of this, but I haven't been able to double check. It arrived at my door secondhand. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. We would like to know whether you sweat when you're swimming. We'd like to know. I think that's it, actually. All that we've got left, whether anyone regulates and authorizes national days. Have I forgotten anything? Oh, colour catchers. How do colour catchers work? That poor fella right at the beginning, I forgot to write his question down. How do colour catchers work when you're doing your laundry? Duncan's in Richmond. Duncan, question or answer? Hi, James. A question, please. Carry on. You know when you get out of the car, sometimes you get a static shock off the metal? Yeah. When we had all the snow a couple of weeks ago, it happened every single time. Every time I got out of the car, when I've been driving in the snow or ice, I got a big static shock and I don't know why. Just moisture in the atmosphere being more conductive, wouldn't it? I don't know. It could be. Water conducts electricity a lot more effectively than air does, so you got rubber tight. It doesn't happen in the rain or in the fog or anything like that. Does it not? No, it's not that. Then, to be honest, I've already given the producer a roasting for putting through terrible questions. But this only really works if it's a common phenomenon. And not just you. The question be, does everyone else get it? You can't ring in and say, hey, this thing happened to me. Has that happened to anyone else? That's not how mystery hour works. How much research have you done? How much peer reviewed research have you done? Loads. Loads and loads. I'll rephrase my question. I get it. Why did it happen to me? And then again, we're kind of breaking the rules of mystery, Aaron. Turning it into some sort of medical phone in. I. Shall I look? I'll put it on the board. But I've never heard of this before. So you've only been driving for a short amount of time, though, haven't you? 14 years. But I've also been talking to people for 46 and no one's ever mentioned to me before that the incident of static shocks when they get out of their car increases when it snows. I was hoping you'd say, have much to know. Maybe we need someone from the outskirring. Maybe we certainly need to prove that it's a thing before we work out what the thing is. And we've only got seven minutes. Linda's in Bromley. Linda, question or answer? I've got an answer for you. Carry on, then. I've got an answer about forming national days, because I am personally responsible for introducing national fish and chip day three years ago. Get in. Round of applause, just for that. First of all, what day of the year is national fish and chip? They remind me it's on the first Friday in June every year. And talk me through the process of forming National Fish and Chip Day. Well, it was an idea that came about by a young fish fryer at the National Fish and Chip Shop of the Year competition, and we, as a trade association, decided to take it forward and form it. And with a fantastic PR company, we've done brilliantly. And so I was right. It is all down to how good your idea is and how good your pr is, how good you can get the message far and wide. But you've also got this charity element involved as well, because we do raise money for the fisherman's mission, who are obviously heavily involved in fish and chips. Oh, fantastic. And you've also got this wonderful infrastructure in place so that every chippy in the country, or at least all the ones that subscribe to the. To the awards, it kind of gets involved without you having to do much heavy lifting or indeed pay them or anything like that. Absolutely. They can get as involved as they want to and it can cost as little as they want to get involved in. So what year? Which awards was it? What year was the awards? Well, the awards are every year. No, I know the one for the year. No, I know the one where you came up with the idea, Linda, keep up. 2015, is that when our place in Hagley won? Oh, no, no, that was a long time ago. Was it? How long ago was that? I think that was possibly 2006. 2009. God, where does the time go, Linda? I know. I remember celebrating when our place in Hagley won the national Fish and Chip shop of the year award with a large cod and chips. They've now got two other successful shops as well. They have one on Cumberton Hill, which poses a bit of a threat to Captain Cod. Where's the other one not sure, because it's not my. Not my neck. You weren't expecting this when you rang in, were you? No. The fish and chip shops of kid of Insta and its surrounding suburbs. It's my specialist subject. So what role do you play in the. In the. In the fish and chip association? I am the secretary general for the National Edible Oil Distributors association. Look at that. That's brilliant. That's one of my favorite answers ever, actually, and I will. I will. Remind me if I forget, but I will give you a massive shout out on the first Friday in June. Linda. All right, we'll send you fish and chips in. Well, you don't have to do that. I always worry about what happens in transit. It is 1254. Can somebody know? Is it under control? Sheila Fogarty is locked out of the studio. Is anyone going to let her in? This is the kind of theatre of the mind that I specialise in creating on the radio. That's why they pay me the silly money. That's one of my favourite calls ever. You should have saved Linda till the end. I want to go home on that and have fish and chips on the way. But before I do, have you noticed this new defense secretary, Gavin Williamson? Actually, let's squeeze in Lizzie's question, because we might have time to answer it before home time, and then I'll talk to you about the defence secretary. Lizzie's in Islington. Question or answer, Lizzie? Question, please, James, carry on. If a pregnant lady can have identical twins, does this happen in the animal world as well? Animal twins, yeah. So if a dog has puppies. Yeah, I know what twins are. You mean identical twins, where the egg is split rather than a large litter? Where I suppose they are twins in the. In the strictest sense of the word. Can animals have identical twins? Yeah. Lizzie, I'll try and get you an answer. We've only got four minutes. I'll squeeze in one more as well. Um, no, this is an answer. Terry's in croydon. Terry, question or answer? That's an answer. Carry on, terry, to the snow one. I think what happens is that when it snows, you, grit and grit is basically salt. And once salt gets put into water, the conductivity, which isn't very high, actually, it's pure water. It doesn't conduct electricity very well. The conductivity rockets. That's actually brilliant. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but that is. I mean, it must be, if the fellow who asked the question is describing something that happens generally, rather than just to him. Your answer is a thing of beauty. Did you just work that out on the hoof? Well, actually, I'm trained geologist and I worked as a hydrogeologist for a bit, so using conductivity to look for water is lucky. Now, came around of applause. What's going to happen to the country when every clever person in the land is tuned into my program between 10:00 and 01:00 I dread to think. We might have to start banning air traffic controllers from tuning in. 1256 is the time, Terry. Thank you very much indeed. Now, briefly, this new defense secretary, Gavin Williamson. I don't know if you've been struck as. You never know as you get older, whether or not it's you or them. Like police officers, you know, and everyone says, oh, they're getting younger police officers. And then one day you realize, God, they are. This is the first time I've ever looked at a senior politician, a cabinet minister, and thought that he belongs in Grange Hill, not downing street. Luckily, today he's come out with an intervention on the Russia story. That means I was completely wrong. Here is a man of almost unbelievable maturity and gravitas. Frankly, Russia should go away. It should shut up. Ladies and gentlemen, the secretary of state for defense. I'll go on once more. Frankly, Russia should go away. It should shut up. He's the man tipped to be prime minister one day, who apparently is such a ruthless operator that he managed to sort of inveigle himself into that position after doing for the previous income. Oh, once more. Come on. Frankly, Russia should go away. It should shut up. That's diplomacy. The thing is, with Boris Johnson in the cabinet, I'm not even confident he's the biggest clown in town. I'm really not. Those are the two men, the foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, and this fella. Frankly, Russia should go away. It should shut up. That will show him. I can feel them quaking in the Kremlin from here. Paul's in Fleet street. Poor. Question or answer? I've got an answer for the swimming question. Carry on. I swam the swim a thon many years ago at the oasis. It's in Giles. And I was sweating culps when I come out. I don't know I was unfit or you do. People sweat when they swim? There's no reason why they shouldn't. The body will cool you down a bit, which might make sweating less lightly than if you're working out. But there will be sweat, especially in warmer water. That's right. And we lose weight as well. We do lose weight. I do feel a bit lightheaded when I come out of the place. There you go. Any thoughts on Russia? What we should do about Russia? Go away. Funny you should say that, Paul. Seriously. They say America's got paw offence. That's lovely. Should we have one more? Yeah. Frankly, Russia should go away. It should shut up. Can I be mean? I try. I really try not to be too personal about politics, because it's. It's a road that leads to nowhere. But he's got the kind of voice that sounds like it should be saying, would you like another slice of cake, Mother? It's Alan Bennett. This is the secretary of state defense, as imagined by Alan Bennett. Oh, there's a chip in the sugar. Sheila Fogarty's got the giggles. Oh, lord. Really? It's risky strategy. I'm known for not being able to stop once I start. So, anyway, thank you very much indeed, James. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.