When did we start eating Spaghetti?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery Hour with James O'Brien three minutes after twelve. And no, there is no conspiracy to put the call on just before midday that flirts with the parameters of being hinged, but just a coincidence that it's happened on the last couple of days. Time now for mystery Hour, three minutes after twelve is the time, and I've solved one mystery for you. John Mundy, the legend who does our voiceovers here on this program, was actually listening the other day when someone rang in and asked. I can't remember why I let them, given that it can't possibly have been on topic, why it is mystery hour with James O'Brien rather than James O'Brien's mystery hour, and John had recorded and sent in an adjusted version before anyone had even got in touch with him. But as you may have noticed, we haven't used it because there's a reason why it is mystery hour with James O'Brien as opposed to James O'Brien's mystery hour that I will share with you a little later in the program. But before that, you need to ring in with your questions. And of course, if you hear someone else ask a question, ring in with your answers. There's nothing else to add, except perhaps we try to avoid dullness, although that's very much in the ear of the beholder. We try to avoid repetition, although that's an increasingly forlorn task as the personnel on the program change with every passing season. And my ability to remember what happened yesterday, never mind last week, or indeed five years ago, is. It's never been great. And we used to have a rule about not liking motoring questions, but oddly, I'm even sort of. I nearly said growing out of that, but that would involve me admitting that my previous antipathy towards matters motoring may have been somewhat childish or immature, and I'm not sure I'm ready to do that just yet. If you hear someone ask a question and you can answer it, ring it and I'll ask you, if you're new to this, what your qualifications are, and you don't have to say, I've got a PhD in applied mathematics, you could just say, I saw it on the telly last night. Know the thing that you've just told us. All right. I'd also ask you to be polite to Ava and Shivani, who are asking the phones today, because, for reasons that perhaps will elude me for the rest of my life, tempers get more frayed. I think, because it's so hard to get through. Tempers get more frayed during this hour than they do even during our conversations about politics and primarily even. Well, maybe it's close, but just be nice, will you? I mean, have a crack at me if we're arguing about politics or something like that, but don't have a crack at my colleagues when they're trying to get through as many phone calls as they humanly can in as little time as possible. All right. Six minutes after twelve is the time Noel is in. Bracknell. Question or answer, Noel? Question, James. Carry on. Okay. I'd like to know if we can find out when was the first known use of wallpaper? You're trolling me. This is ridiculous. This is the hour of the week where I step away from the news agenda and immerse myself in trivia and frivolity. And you've steered us right. I mean, this is any roll of wallpaper. Or does it have to be 800 pound rolls of wallpaper? No, any roll. Any roll. When was wallpaper first used? I imagine. Not that you asked for my imaginings. I wouldn't be surprised if it had something to do with Prince Albert. Prince Albert? Yeah. I don't know why. No, I know, but I just. I don't know why. He seems to have been some of an aesthete. You know, the Victoria and Albert museum is very big on, you know, that kind of thing. Prior to Albert's arrival in this country. Well, I don't know. I'll find out for you. I reckon it'll be earlier than that, though. I think it'll probably be the Georgians started us, I think. But I don't know if we should. Yeah, no, quite possibly, quite possibly. I shall find out for you. Someone will know and I'd love to. I can't wait, actually, to hear what the qualifications are for that one. I hope it's not. I saw it on telly last night. I hope it is somebody who perhaps could comment on whether or not a 12,000 owl lantern is something that was quite correctly purchased for the heritage and posterity of the nation, as grant shaps seemed to claim yesterday. Daniel's in Hoddeston. Daniel, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. How far can you see with the naked eye before the curvature of the earth stops you seeing any further? We did this about a month ago. Even my short term memory. Even my short term memory is up to this question. I must have been on a job at the time. No, that's all right. I'll dig it out from. I don't know. We still do. In the mystery, our archive, since Adrian moved on. I don't know if we are. We should probably double check. But we did that about a month ago. Can you remember the answer, Keith? There is a figure, and it's maritime. Laura. Ship's captain rang in to answer. Yeah, because that's where I was going to go with it. If you're at sea and you can't see any land. That's right. The horizon will. How far is it? You know, I'm going to have to let someone on to answer the question with the qualification that they were paying more attention to mystery hour a month ago than the professionals that present and produce the program. I'll go with that, yeah. All right. Thanks for that. Daniel did a cheer, so that's why we used to have the repetition rule. Annie is in Guildford. Annie, question or answer? Hi, good morning. Good. Sorry. Good afternoon. I'm just curious. I'm a chef, and I was wondering, if I was walking through the jungle, and there was an egg on the ground, and I was hungry, could I cook that egg from any animal, be it a snake or a lizard, or just a wild bird? How could I cook that? Or would I get poisoned from eating that egg? Just any egg. Can you eat any egg? Snake egg. What about a venomous snake's egg? That's what I'm asking. Because these people were walking through the jungle, and they found these two eggs. I saw this. What were you doing in the jungle? You live in Guildford? No, I was watching a program. I wonder if it was called. But they were walking through the jungle. They found these eggs, they put them in a bamboo pipe, and they steamed them, and they ate the eggs. And I was thinking, if that was a venomous snake, surely they'd be poisoned, because there'd be venom in that egg. But they didn't. They were fine. But then they ate some under ripe bananas and got really sick. So I can't work out if you could get. What was this program? It's called. What can I say? Yeah, of course you can. Okay. It's called naked and afraid, where they just dump these people in the jungle, and then they have to forage and live for 21 days, find water, find food and survive. And they got really sick from under ripe bananas. And they're just ordinary people, are they? It's like a reality show. Yeah. And they go in with, like, a figure of a number of how much they're going to survive, and they're there for 21 days. And then they have to be extracted, get to a point and get removed from the jungle. And they still can't believe it. They still haven't. They still haven't commissioned monkey tennis, but they've made naked and afraid. What is the world coming to? Can you eat any egg? That's a really lovely question. In fact, I go so far as to say, wait for it, Annie. That's an excellent. No, sorry, I won't do it. I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it. I'm not going there. Keith wouldn't bear it. Thank you, Annie. When was wallpaper first used? Can you remember the call from about a month ago, telling us how far you can see the horizon from the naked eye? It depends partly on how tall you are. But there's a maritime answer to that question, and to my eternal shame, I can't remember what it is. And eggs. Can you eat any old egg? Any old egg? Any old egg. Any. Any old egg. Paul's in Morecambe. Or do you know my Morecambe story, Paul? No, I don't, James. Well, when I was a lad, a slip of a lad, when I first started at private school, we never really had fancy holidays. When I was a kid, there was a reason, and it's because I was going to private school, so there wasn't enough money left over for fancy holidays. But some of the kids I went to school with did go on fancy holidays and I can't remember why, but I was. I think I may even have been moaning slightly about it. And they were going to places like Ibiza and, you know, Majorca and Barbados. And my dad said to me, and I didn't know why this was funny, but I remember it making my mum laugh her socks off. He said, tell him you went to Morrokambi. So I went back to school. I went back to school the next day, told all the kids that I'd been on my holidays to Mauricambie. And I still took me years to work out why the teacher looked at me with such pity. Anyway, question or answer, Paul? It's a question. Carry on. Why do electric cars have to have this specialized plug to plug in your house? Why can't it just be a three pin plug like we plug everything else in with, but you plug it in your house at one end. But it's not everything else. Your mobile phone has a specialized plug, right? But that's small, that's a size issue. So why can't you just stick a three pin plug in your car? Yeah. I mean, you can plug everything like, say from a mobile charger to a cement mixer in to your house electric. So it's not the actual electric, is it? So what, what is it that makes it so have to be such a specialized plug? We're talking about the plug that goes into the car. Well, whichever way it goes. But it goes into the car. But I mean, it's like, but I've never seen one. I'm just being, I'm not being thick. I have genuine ignorance. Can you not just plug it into any sockets at one end and then stick it in the car at the other end? Well, this is what, I don't know what, I have seen. People with electric cars, they just have this box, the cable on it. So. Yes, but they must be able to. Or do they, though? Because then you know, nor do I now, so, but this is the problem, Paul. There are two mysteries now, and you're only allowed to ask one. We've got what end of the cable are we talking about? No, no. It's still basically the same thing, isn't it? Doesn't matter which end the cable is because you can just, you should be able to. Is it going to be the same? Why can't they make a cable? You can just use a three pin plug. What about shaver sockets? Oh, that's got something to do with water. Ah, maybe because it rains. It rains. Yeah, but you can't, you can still use, you can still use plugs. You can still utilize. Yeah, but you don't, you should. No, you shouldn't. You can have a sort of rubberized, vulcanized garden plug with a cover over it, but the COVID is there to protect the plug when it's raining but not plugged in. You wouldn't go out in a rainstorm and plug in your fly mo, would you? You wouldn't. So that's the answer, I bet. Yeah. Because I mean, you can have an outdoor socket. That's the dog. That's the dog telling you. I'm right. He's going. Leave it, Paul. Leave it, Paul. James has got this one. James has got this one covered. Leave it. Okay. Or is it. We'll find out. I don't know why and who and what and when. An electric cars 1213 is the time Tim's been in touch to say James, and they are actually naked, which I'll admit I did a double take out, but it's referring back to Annie's television favorite, naked and afraid Tim, I don't want to sound ungrateful. But when she told me the program was called naked and afraid, I presumed that all of the participants would be both naked and afraid. It's not an entirely reliable measure, I grant you, but it's one that I was prepared to accept in the first instance. Archie is in reading. Archie, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Yeah. By the way, I stutter at times, but that's fine. Take all the time you want, Archie. You're among friends. Formula. As I was in the navy, lecturing as an officer and in teaching radar, we had a formula which was the distance to horizon in miles is equal to 1.23 times the square root of the height. So it meant, say, the aerial was 50ft above the sea? Yes. Sorry, 100ft above the sea. Square root, that's ten. So 1.23 times ten is 12.3 miles. Now, if your eyes were, say, six foot above the land, then square root of six is roughly 2.4 and 1.23 times that is roughly 3 miles. Good grief. That's brilliant. And qualifications. You lectured on this in the navy? Yes, I was a short service officer and I taught at the briar school in Fazda and also HMS Triad, where I taught computers as well as radar. Fantastic. So we needed to. We just did it so that the students would know roughly how far with, say, a radar for just where the ship was, could see, and then why we needed a different type of radar to see long distances. Blimey. What a beautiful answer. Archie, accept a round of applause with my compliments. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you very much indeed. Cracking job. And the time is 1216. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 90 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour continues. Questions in need of answers include the wallpaper one, the X one and the electric car plug one, which came close to reminding me of why I used to have a moratorium on motoring related questions. But not close enough. Terry is in Bournemouth. Terry, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Terry on Terry. Well, in my previous guise a couple of years ago, well, I still am a qualified electrician and I've installed car chargers. And the reason that the plugs are different and the leads are different is it's all to do with the rate of charge. So if you plug an ordinary main plug type charger that's normally supplied with the vehicle for. I'm looking at the. You know, you're looking at. You're looking at time. It takes a long, long time to charge at that rate, because capacity, if you. The best analogy for electricity is think of water. If you had a tank of water with a tiny little pipe, it would take ages to drain down. Whereas if you had a tank of the same tank of water with a large or pipe pretty quickly. That's a good analogy. That's a great analogy. Electrical principles teacher taught us at West Ham College years ago. West Ham College. How many years ago was that? 1977 onwards. Good grief. And here it is. Here it is, galloping to mystery hour magic in 2021. I love that. So, I mean, you could do it with a normal three pin plug, but it would take ages. It takes longer. It's to do with the rate of charger. Those big, powerful chargers are actually charging at hundreds of volts. 480 volts, if I remember, off the top of my head, for a Nissan leaf. Other cars are available, of course. Indeed they are. Briefly, forgive me if this is a really stupid question. What does it do? To continue with your sort of water analogy, is it sucking more electricity out of the national grid than it would be without the special? Yeah, it will be. I mean, I won't bore you with technicals, but you wouldn't be boring me, you'd just be confusing. You'd just be confusing me. But I'll try my best. If you ever want, anyone ever wants to look into it, just look up Ohm's law. But basically, the more current or the more charge that you put, put in, the more current you have to. So with a 13 amp plug in it, it would take flipping ages. It would take ages. Whereas if you've got a specialist charger, then the current flow is. No, that's charges quicker. Beautiful work. I remember ohm, believe it or not, I got an e in my. In my ao level. Physics or my. You go to Greece, don't you? Quite a lot, yeah. But don't rub it in, mate, not for a while. Why omega? What? It's from the symbol for Omis. Yes, it's called omega. Yes, of course it is. Omega. Or Omicron. It's Omega. You're absolutely right. Flipping it. We're covering a lot of ground here, Terry. We've gone from West Ham to the greek Alphabet while answering a question about electric car chargers. Round of applause. Yes, of course you can. Of course you can. Go on. Why on the first. When you first open the show, do you say question or answer? When there is no question being posed? What is the name of this feature? Say that again. What is the name of the feature to which you are currently contributing? What? Question time. Sorry? Mystery hour with James. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. So what better way than to inaugurate the weekly mystery hour than with a mystery that can never be solved? I love that. I love that. I think you need a Rayleigh officer. Round of applauses for you. Qualifications make it up as I go along. But I made that one up a long time ago. Stuart is in Maidenhead. Stuart, question or answer? Hello, I have a question. When does a roundabout cease to be a roundabout and start being a gyratory system? How large does it need to be? Am I being trolled by my own colleagues on this one, do you think? I mean, my well established indifference stroke animosity towards motoring based questions is usually explained with the example of an actual roundabout. And here we are. And you know what, Stuart? I'm actually quite interested because I'm kind of. Stop it, stop it, stop it. Sorry, Stuart, you were saying? I'm puzzled because the higher lane gyratory is a gyratory, but really it's just a big roundabout with, like, eight lanes at one bit. Well, is it going to be the number of exits? Perhaps it could be the number of lanes that exit. Is it the number of traffic lights that's on it? Because my other question is then somebody might notice, is that, I believe, elephant and castle. You're only allowed. No, no, don't spoil it. You've got me interested. We're not going to get down to specific roundabouts. How do you think that's going to play out in Nantwich, Nuneaton or nunhead? So I like the question. It's a bit like, how big does a pond have to be before it becomes a lake? Yeah, possibly. At what point does a roundabout become or qualify as a gyratory? I can't believe I'm really interested in the answer to that. I've changed, honestly, I really have. 25 minutes after twelve is the time Liam is in Watford. Liam, question or answer? Hi, James. My question is. Well, I've got a question. Sorry. My question is, is light pollution naturally luminous? So I'd like to know, if you was to turn off every light source in, say, for example, the city of London, would the night sky still glow orange, as it sort of currently does of an evening, or would it. I don't know. Would it go away? I mean, I assume you wouldn't be able to see the stars through it, but would there still be that glow? Is that glow light pollution? Well, I think so. When you said it, I just thought of the sunset then. Well, yes, but then it's still there, isn't it? If you were to venture outside your. Your house at, like, three in the morning, not that you would, but if you were looking outside your window, well, you might have done. Yeah. The. The night sky sort of glows, kind of an orange color. So what we want to know is what would happen to the sky if we turned off every single light? But surely you just need to go to the seaside, don't you? Well, no, because at the seaside, you don't have the sort of level of. That's what I mean. So you'd find out what it was like if there weren't any lights on. Well, no, because you'll be able to see the stars, whereas in London you can't see the stars because of the pollution level. Am I right? I don't know, you've lost me a bit. Which is a reflection on me, not on you. Perhaps it's on me. Well, it could be both. Let's split the difference. 52, me. 48, you. So if we turned off all the lights in London, what would the sky look like? Well, yeah, yeah. I mean, yeah. Would it still glow orange in a way that it does? Seems unlikely. I don't know if you've ever tripped, been driving down the m eleven. I'm just taking a question on roundabouts. I'm not going to have a motorway based analogy. Okay, right, I'll drop the motorway based analogy. I think I understand the question, because. Yeah, all right, so the sky reflects. Well, I think it's obvious, but that's why I think I must have misunderstood, because the sky is reflecting from what is below. So if you turned off everything below, there'd be nothing to reflect. Surely there'd be nothing to reflect. Okay. Hmm. Isn't that obvious? Interesting. It's on the list. It's on the list. It's on the list. So, well done. And if someone can answer that, I'll be very grateful. 27 after twelve. Well played, Liam. Stefan is in Luxembourg. Stefan, question or answer? Question, please carry on. So, I'm amazed with the carry on in, in the Downing street. And I just wonder if Johnson and Simmons have to move out of the Downing street flat so they can keep the furniture. Trying to have a break from the politics, Stefan. Well, still amazed. It's a good question and I love it. Actually, another question would be, if they keep it, is it tax? Do they have to declare it as an imputed income? Well, this is one of the things the electoral commission would be looking into, I imagine. Because if it is a benefit in kind, then it would be subject to very different rules than those which appear to have been followed. But, yeah, they must be able to keep it because Theresa May moved a lot of her stuff out and whatever it was that was. So the 30 grand a year's worth probably stays put because that is paid for by the taxpayer. But the 60 grand plus that they've spent from mysterious, as yet undisclosed sources that presumably they can take with them, who would know? She was put off by the. She was put off by the John Lewis look, that suggests. John Lewis look. If they. If Theresa May would have taken the furniture. No, but that might be the difference between the furniture that was bought with the 30,000 pounds per annum allowance, that is. That stuff has to stay. And the money spent individually by prime ministers or chancellors because Rishi Sunak has paid for it himself. So there's no one suggesting for a minute that he should have to give it all back when he moves out of number eleven into number ten. I'm just curious. Yeah, I am as well. Unfortunately. I don't know who'd be qualified to answer. Well, any of the ministers that John Major, Theresa May, Tony Blair, Gordon Brown. If an actual prime minister rings in, Stefan, do you think they would deserve a ray Liotta? Yes. Yes. Yes. All right, as long as we're agreed on that. So when they move out of Downing street, what do they get to keep? Zero. 345-606-0973 if anything at all. So we've got the Downing street. Do they keep the furniture? We've got the light pollution, the roundabout. We've done that. Eggs. Can you eat any egg? And when did we start? When was wallpaper first used? If you can answer those, there is a wonderful mystery, our round of applause just dangling in front of you like a juicy fruit. And it could be yours for the price of a phone call. Zero 345-606-0973 it's coming out to 12:30 Tim Humphrey is here with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1233. Mystery hour continues with James O'Brien. That's an in joke. All right. Not that in, given that I explained it half an hour ago, but, um. Oh, I haven't explained it yet, have I? So the reason why it's mystery hour with James O'Brien and not James O'Brien's mystery hour, which is what the board game will be called, is branding across the whole station. So John Mundy, who is our voiceover guru, unprompted and unasked, sent in an amended version after someone earlier in the week said, why isn't it James O'Brien's mystery? I said, with James O'Brien. So I was expecting to hear it. I didn't hear it at 12:00 so I said to Keith, Keith, why didn't I hear it? And Keith said to me, he said, well, James, the thing is, it's all about branding across the station, so it's cross questions with Ian Dale, cross questions with Ian Dale, not Ian Dale's cross questions. It could be James O'Brien's cross callers, couldn't it, some days. And then it is, you know, call the cabinet with Nick Ferrari, legal hour with Daniel Barnett. So it's just. It's just sort of brand consistency is what you might call it. And of course, I don't have to comply with that. When the board game hits a shop near you shortly, 1234 is the time Graeme is in Cambridge. Graham, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. I've got a question. Carry on. Why is it that when a police camera is out of action. What do you mean? On a road? On the side of a road. Right, wait, wait there a minute. Just. Sorry, Graham, would you excuse me for, like, one moment? Yep, all right. You think this is funny, do you? Yeah. Loads and loads of motoring questions today. No, no, not you, Graham. Graham, I asked you to. Excuse me, I'm addressing the troops. All right? Look at me when I'm talking to you. You think this is funny? Yeah, all right, all right, carry on. You didn't have to say it quite that loudly, Graham. My apologies for interrupting you. Please continue with your fascinating motoring based inquiry. Yeah, well, the question is, why is it when a police camera is out of action on the side of the road and they. They put a sack over it or sign saying, not in use when surely it's beneficial to safety? Oh, yeah. So have it still, you know, lead us to believe that it is still operative, you know, still working. That is actually a mildly interesting question. I am surprised. I mean, would it not be? So they know which one to fix? I don't know. They should know what one footage, should they, on their day? There's a lot of them. There's a lot of them. And you can't be just pulling over and checking the serial number or something like that. And you can't be counting while you're driving, can you? Because you wouldn't be concentrating on the road. So get yourself down the m eleven. I'm doing it myself now. Get yourself down the m eleven. We've got a camera that needs fixing, Graham. Graham says, which one, James? And I said, well, the one with the flipping hood on it, obviously. Graham, what else are you going to do? Get out and check every single one to see if it's still. So it's got to be that, hasn't it? They would have a database, they would know exactly which ones are. But how are you going to know when you've passed it on the road? Yeah, good point. That's a good point. Oh, no, now I've. Now I've answered them, I'd like to know the answer. Well, I think you've just got it, mate. Don't be so ungrateful. There must be someone out there that knows the reason why. Because they wouldn't know that I was the one that needed fixing. They must know. There must be a database of the ones that have gone down. Yes, but again, I'm going around in roundabouts now because that would be impossible to find unless you were distracted from actually driving, especially pre gps as well. It might. I mean, now, these days you could put in like a coordinates and it'd start pinging when you were near. But we're talking about practices that predate the proliferation of gps, aren't we? Oh, man, I sound like a petrol head. You do. Oh, lord, you're on the list. It's a nice question. If I get another question about motoring, can you tell Sheila Ferguson to be on her toes? Because I might be clocking off early today. 1237 is the time. Tony is in Manchester. Tony, question or answer? Answer. I've got several answers, but I'm told I'm only allowed one. That's correct. So make sure you follow those very, very strict rules. I absolutely will. So the answer is about the. The answer is about naked and afraid and snake eggs. Oh, yes. So the answer is quite simply that the venom sachs in snake developed quite late in the embryological process. Right. And in fact, there's a clue in the fact that snakes, venomous snakes and their eggs have been eaten freons by humans with no ill effects, naturally eat a snake. As long as you remove the egg sack, the venom sack and don't eat that, it'll taste like chicken. Win a winner chicken dinner as a chicken taping dinner, as I put in my email to you. Very nice. As you've discovered, I don't read out emails, so I'm glad you've called in. I don't read our emails during misty hour. I'm flipping slack at it the rest of the time, because the phones are always so busy, but mistry hour is immune from text, tweet and. And email contributions. So you're. So what if the egg was in the late embryonic stage? What if the embryo was in a late stage while it was still in the egg? How would someone planning to eat the egg even know that? It would be a bad idea to do that. Yeah, but how are you going to know? Well, there's an easy way. Most people won't eat an egg once there's a half formed chicken in it, and that's a chicken egg. By the time the venom sac has developed, you've got pretty much fully formed snake in the egg. So you wouldn't. Yeah. Again, I don't quite. I mean, you could hold it up to a bright light. What would? What happens in the jungle? Do we know? I just seem that you crack the egg. Oh, you're not going to eat it? Oh, Tony, mate, I am such a flump. I mean, I think you've been too polite. I think you probably couldn't believe how stupid my question was. I'm trying really hard not to be James O'Brien, to be honest. Just go all in, mate. Go all in. Turn my head off. Seriously, you'll be viral by tea time. I am actually a bit devastated. I've been wanting to call him for ages and ages and ages, but this is the first time I've caught the show live. I usually catch stuff on YouTube after the fact. Well, here you are. Now. It's even better, isn't it, in real life. And I'm a science blogger who writes about science, logic, skepticism. Oh, fantastic. I haven't read your book yet, but it's on my list. Good. And I'm actually currently in the process of writing two books. One about the logic of leadership and effective team building. Oh, yes. In the context of how to win Hell's Kitchen, the US version. We got in Ramsay because it's a popular show and I figure, no, it's a good case study. The sort of people who really need the education on logic and critical thinking aren't the sort of people who are going to pick up a book on logic and leadership thinking, but they might pick up a book about Hell's Kitchen. I like it a lot. Just for the benefit of the tape, the reason you didn't answer my incredibly stupid question is that nobody really eats an egg without cracking it first. Yeah, well, you wouldn't want to, because I know that now. But that was what I kept asking you. Oh, hang on. A minute. You're going to hold it up to the light, which completely overlooked the fact that you're not going to eat an egg. Yeah. As they say, Tony, you may be familiar with this vigorous fish. You can't make an omelet without cracking eggs. So just for fun, I answered, I sent an email. Answer to the pollution question. All right, I can answer the last caller's question. No, you can't. I'm going to cut you off with a round of applause and bid you fail. All right, mind, there you go. You definitely will. I sense it. And there you go, Tony, discovering the joys of the James O'Brien experience in real time as opposed to. Yes, it is called the James O'Brien experience. All right, if I say so, the experience with James O'Brien, that's an entirely different proposition in real time, in real life as opposed to on. I don't know that the YouTube clips are desperately representative of this program because they're usually the sort of one call in every ten or 20 when someone has an accident on the program. But hey ho, I suppose I'm just suggesting that I'm much more mellow, much more mellow, perhaps, than some of the, some of the viral clips allowed, especially these days. 1240 one's the time. Lee is. Leron is in Woolwich. Lee, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Question or answer? Even? I'd like to try and answer the question about light pollution. Oh, crack on then. I didn't even understand it. So this will be fun. Well, okay, so my understanding of it is this, okay, if you were to shine a torch, a ball and you've got a football and you shone a torch at it. Yeah. You would light up the ball, but you'd also light up the area around that ball. Right. And that would be your light pollution. Yeah. So all of the light, all of the street lights and car lights and basically all the light sources in a built up area do sort of give off a bit of pollution. So you get sort of like a glow all around that area that's lit up. Yeah. And that is going up into the sky. And that's why I've recently started amateur astronomy and I found that you have to travel, I have to travel out of London to get a better view of the night sky. You can view the stars from London, but the further afield you go, the further out you go, the better your view will be. But if they turned off all the lights in London, the ball would still be there, but it wouldn't be lit up, the ball would still. I'm trying to just hold on because the ball is the paloo shah. I knew this was going to. No, the ball isn't the pollution. Right. Okay. So you is in the question. I know. Go on. So I'm shining a torch. A ball. A football. Right. Yeah. That's where I want my main concentration of light to go. But then also all of the whole room around this ball lit up. Yeah, but if I turn off the torque, the ball is still there. Yeah, the ball is still there, but all the spare lights. So if we turned off all the lights in London, what our caller called light pollution would not be there. It wouldn't be there if I. If I had. That's what I thought. It was as simple a question as I believed it to be. If I had an empty room and I popped a basketball in there and I should have talked to this at this basketball. Yeah. Right. Yeah. The ball would get lit up and so would the rest of the room. Yeah, I got it. If I turn the torch off, all would still be there, but the rest of the room would be dark. So your sky is dark. It's just like when the moon's out as clear. What are you doing? A lap of honor. I've got. I understand what. You understand what you told me. Qualifications? Taking up astronomy. It's not much fun. It's not much fun in a built up city. And it's got more to do with light pollution than it has with pollution. Pollution like air pollution. That's right. In fact, I think the caller got the two mixed up, to be honest with you. Yeah, yeah. Well, you even. I just want to add, you even get a bit of light pollution from the moon as well, because that's bouncing light off the reflection of the sun, like, into the sky. So astronomy is better when the moon's not there. You heard it here first. Round of applause for Leron. Cheers. Bye bye. How big is your telescope? Do you know what? It's just. It's. That was for Keith. It's all right for a starter telescope. It's an astronaut astromaster 130 celestrion. Yeah. No, it's all right for beginners. Very on. And you don't want to front up too much cash until you found out whether it's one of those hobbies that ends up in the loft or whether it's one of the few that actually make it, make it through for the long run. I love that. Thank you, Leron. It's coming up to quarter to one. You're listening to mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three four five six zero six zero nine seven three twelve. Forty nine. I am surprised that no one has phoned in to say that Ohm's law is named after a man named Ohm. Ohm. It's nothing to do with the greek Alphabet. Alistair. Alistair, allow me to put you out of your misery. The reason no one has rung in to question that point is because nobody else is confused by it. You're absolutely right, George. Ohm, I think his name was, actually. But the ohm, the greek letter omega is the unit of measure, the abbreviation of the unit of measure for resistance. So, you know, what is the resistance in that thingamy? It's six ohms. And you would use the omega greek letter to express ohm in the same way that v is short for volt and a is short for amp or indeed ampere. So there you go. Bespoke answer for you on that. Just because I didn't understand the question. And so I took a moment to work it out. Stephen is in Milton Keynes. Stephen, question or answer? I've got a question for you, sir. Carry on. Well, I was asked about the car, but I'll go past that one. When dogs are looking to go for a toilet, what is it that they are sniffing for before they go? Is that someone laughing in the background or is that a dog? That's your dog and it's not my dog. Whose dog is that? I don't know. He's laughing at you, Stephen. The dog is literally laughing at you on national radio, mate. You're getting owned by a dog. I don't think it's just the dog. I think I want to say that I can't believe that you fake. This is a bloke over there. Oi, oi, oi, spot. There's a geezer over there on the phone. I don't know who he's talking to. He wants to know why we sniff around before we do our business and then the other dog's gone. Let's hear him. Let's hear him point the phone up. Gone. What? He's gone quiet now he's embarrassed. He didn't realize he's gonna be on the radio. Yes. All right. You can tell it's live today, can't you, Steve? Like that one, don't you? Like that one? Oh, snorted. I will, um. I'll endeavor to get you an answer. I presume it's. They're marking their territory. So they're making sure no one. No. What? Oh, it's not that. No, apparently not. No. Even in our own garden. You know, this is what she's looking for. I know. Make sure that she or he hasn't been to the same place before. Well, Australia. Hang on, that could be it. He's nodding now. Stay there, I'll give you. I gotta introduce you to a celebrity dog trainer. Our friend Vieri, otherwise known as Doctor dog. What's the dog? It's not your dog in the background, Stephen. That's not my dog. No. No. All right, so I won't introduce your dog because it isn't your dog, but Doctor dog is here. So I'll introduce Doctor dog to Steven. Steve. Hello, Doctor dog. What? Why are they sniffing around before they do their doings? They're just trying to find the sweet spot, as it were. Meaning. But the more important question is why they're turning around in circles. No, I know that. I know that. Stop it, stop it. Stop. Stop bigging up your part. I don't know what the sweet spot means. No, I'm just. I'm joking. The reason why they sniff is because they do this all the time. But are they looking for a bit that is on a bit that they haven't used before, a bit that no other dog has used before? Well, maybe they're just looking for something to inspire them to. You're not answering this. Seriously. There must be. Why don't they go until they've had a good sniff? Because they need to have a good sniff before they go. It's turned into a philosophical conundrum. So we. Or at least you don't know. Nobody knows. No, because they haven't. Geography teacher. Yes. I can tell you why they turn around and circulate. Yeah, go on then. Go on, then. Well, actually, there's a real good answer to that. And the reason is because they're looking for the north south magnetic axis of the earth's magnetic field. What they've actually done is imagine, get this, 80 dogs have been watched for two years by german and danish students. Go on. Defecating. So can you imagine these students watch dogs for two years doing their business, a bit like Keith's job and great, lovely job. So at the end of that, they suddenly realized that what? The reasons why dogs turn around in circles before they poop, not before they pee, but before they poop, is because they're trying to align themselves to about 90% of the time on the north south axis. And that is the proof that mammals are what's known as magnetosensitive. Wow. Which is what we know from migratory birds. We know that from insects and stuff, but we've never been able to prove it from mammals. Well, that's incredible. Elephants migrate and whales. Do we know why they do it? I mean, we've established that they do it and causation is correlation in this case. But do we know why they do it? No. Again, does it ease. Does it ease the process, I wonder? Well, I don't know. It's a bit of dog feng shui, I guess. It is exactly that, Stephen. That's not what you rang in for, but I hope you consider that to be an unexpected bonus. I'll take it, thanks. There we go. And has your canine friend moved on, or will we have a chance of canvassing their opinion about Doctor dog's contribution to the program today? The dog is now gone, so, yes, round of applause for vieri, please. Doctor Dog himself. No, thank you. 1254 is the time. See, there'd be some people listening who hate dog questions with the same passion that I hate or used to hate motoring questions. Yeah, well, get your own radio show. John's in Palmer's green. John. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, John. It's the wallpaper question. Oh, yeah. And my knowledge of it is through the National Trust. Go on. I'm a member of National Trust and there's 16 properties that have chinese wallpaper dating from 17 hundreds. But the volunteers that work there, they do some research into wallpapers and different things in the National Trust. Tell them to be careful. If they're doing research, they might get attacked by the Daily Telegraph. They might do, yes. That could be a big problem. Just be on your toes. Go on. What's the discovery? Oh, the Chinese use wallpaper 200 years BC. They use rice paper to decorate their walls. So I was told by the one of the women working there. That'll do me their qualifications. National Trust guide with a bit of an interesting war. 200 years BC, they were putting up paper. That's a long time ago, isn't it? No one's going to argue with that, John. No, not even me, apparently. One of the National Trust properties, I think it's called Saltram House, there's a guy that does a book on wallpaper, so if the man who phoned in is that interested, he could go there and buy a copy of this wallpaper. That's you told, isn't it, John? Round of applause for you. Well, please. No, thank you. Very much. Be careful with that research, though, seriously. You could end up being accused of being a member of the woke brigade and attacked by the right wing media for doing research into actual things that what happened in history. 1256 is the time Livio is in Islington. Livio. Question or answer, James. All right. Was that your. Was that your horn or is someone else gone? No, I'm actually in Palmer's green as well at the moment because I'm a bus driver. It's a small world. It is a small world. And the answer is to the gyrotry question. Oh, yeah. What is the difference between a roundabout and a gyratory system? Yes, a roundabout. Imagine even if it had two lanes, if you get into one of the lanes, you could continue going round. If you don't move out of it and it wouldn't lead anywhere, effectively, you just continue going round the roundabout. Yeah. With the gyrotry, the lanes are designed in such a way that they spit you out at the right exit, so they sort of call outwards as it goes around. Yeah. So, providing you've selected the right lane to start with, you will leave at the right exit. You'll generally egress down the correct exit. And if you did, if you wanted to go round and round and round a gyratory, what would happen? Well, I mean, you could. You'd crash, would you? Well, no, you wouldn't crash because it's just the way. It's just the way the lanes are marked. So you could. You could, in theory, continue to go around and around. You'd probably pee a few people off, so to speak, because everyone else is driving according to the presumptions and regulations. I love it. Qualifications? Well, the pastor driver's part of our test. All right, don't make it sound like I'm the one being stupid. I'm just going through. I'm just going through the motions. Livio, back to the last question. Going through the motions. Round of applause for Livio. Thank you. Thank you. Round of applause for Lino as well. Actually, I know I don't normally read in tweets, but the fellow who rang in from. And I said to him, do you know my Malcolm story? Paul and Lino tweeted, memo to self, if James O'Brien ever asks, do you know my blank story? Always answer yes. Have you heard it before? Tony's on Merseyside. Tony, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's about the speed cameras. Oh, yes. Basically, under legislation, you've got to notify motorists that there is speed cameras or radar cameras or whatever they call it. The latest one. Because I mean, you think like on the m six, there's no speed cameras but the speed camera signs. That's because local authorities will put a speed camera in a van on one of the gantries. Okay. So when it's got the not in use sign on, it's just to notify motorists that it's, it's not in use, obviously. The other thing is they're usually set up ready for roadworks or average speed cameras, etcetera. But like, if they've got roadworks in the future. So there you go. So you've got to be notified so you can have a country lane. Yeah, but you've got to be notified that there might be a speed camera. There's no legal requirement to notify you that there isn't, surely. Exactly. So there's no notification that it's the 30 miles hour speed limit because it is in like a built up area. So the presumption is there aren't any speed cameras. So they notify people to say there are speakers. Yeah. No, but why then? If it was broken, then you'd be better off leaving it on like a sort of empty alarm box on the front of your house. They don't say that it's broken, they just say not in use. Yeah, it's not in use because they're not doing the average speed. Can we check, etcetera? So. But we do, we are notified. Them country lanes, everything like that. I think I understand. Although this is why. This is why I don't do motoring questions, Tony, because I'm so slow. I think you've had your fill today. Not kidding, mate, seriously. But, um, your qualifications? Uh, a retired police officer as police liaison officer for the highways agency for three years. That'll do. 2006, 2000. How many police liaisons officers are there for the highways agency, roughly? It depends. When I was in, there were five. Right, go on then. That'll do. No, you're in your own. James O'Brien on LBC. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. They will come. Okay. Great work. We're late for Sheila, so sadly we haven't got time to play the rocky music. Sheila Fogarty, over to you. Thank you, James. The report that I'm going to talk about probably for the first 2 hours of the program, actually, and then depending on your reaction, maybe even more than that, I found, well, more than shocking, I found disturbing, actually. It was a survey of over 22,000 women and girls and it looked at their experiences of violence, sexual and otherwise, prior to being 18 and after the age of 18. And given what we've learned recently in conversations that we've had on air and in your own homes as well, I'm sure some of this won't come as a surprise to you, but some of it, I hope anyway, really, really will. The question is, what do we do about it? So let's talk about that after the news on your radio. On global player and play LBC, leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.