Another Mystery Hour With Many Belly Laughs

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Three minutes after twelve is the time the phone lines are open. Your weekly opportunity to achieve intellectual satisfaction of a kind not ordinary, available anywhere else on your radio dial is now upon us. The number you need, zero 345-606-0973 you will only hear that number when I have phone lines free. It gets incredibly busy. But we also have to deal with quite a lot of repeat business at the top of the hour. A lot of people have to be politely invited to move along with their questions. So, as always on this program, judicious use of redial is your best chance of getting through to the studio. If you're not familiar with mystery hour, I'll talk you through the rules regulations in a moment. If you are familiar with it, then book your place now by dialing zero 345-606-0973 you know those newspaper articles, those features where a reader writes in and says, why do we do this? And what's the origin of that, and where does that come from? The whos, the whys, the whens, the wheres, the withers, and even the occasional wherefore. This is your real time equivalent. Okay? Zero 345-606-0973 if you have a question that needs an answer, do not ring me. If your question is boring. And by that, what I mean is if it's unlikely that anyone else is going to be interested in the answer, which is often the case with motoring questions, we find if it's unlikely that anyone except you is going to be interested in the answer, then spare us. Seriously, it's not worth the effort. Similarly with repetition, which obviously you can't be expected to police as closely as dullness, but you can check out the Mister hour archive at LBC Dot co dot UK and find out whether the question you're thinking about is one that we've already answered. Because there's no way I'm going to remember. We've been doing this for so long and I'm getting to an age now. I can't remember what I had for breakfast, let alone what we covered on mystery hour three years ago. So do bear that in mind. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, you have to ring in, otherwise your radio will break and you're not allowed to look stuff up. That's the only other rule of mystery hour. It's a celebration of education, enlightenment. It's actually more about the journey than the destination, as you'll discover if you haven't listened before. It's not for the humourless, is it, mister hour? If you think it's a sort of serious exercise in questions and answers, like a sort of radio equivalent of an encyclopedia, you're probably going to be slightly disappointed. It's about traveling, hopefully in the rough direction of a correct answer. Dullness and repetition are our enemies, but so is Google. So if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer and the reason why you know the answer is often as interesting as the answer itself. It can be as banal as having watched it on television last week. Mythbusters pops up quite a lot. Or, as the patron saint of mystery hour tests, you could just happen to be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, who is one of our most regular contributors. It gives you an idea of how we lurch uncontrolled from the sublime to the ridiculous and back to the sublime again in the course of an hour. I also usually guarantee a, that you'll learn something new by 01:00 today, and b that you'll have a genuine laugh out loud moment. And I'm happy to issue both of those guarantees once again today. Should we crack on any other business? Anybody else know we remembered everything? Yeah. Oh, a little bit of mystery. Our magic for you. I think I am going to have smuggled the word osmosis into tomorrow's Daily Mirror unless they change my copy between now and publication. As things stand, I've managed, as a special gift for mystery hour fans, to smuggle the word osmosis, which you won't understand why, unless you are a mystery hour fan of old. This is exciting news. I've smuggled it into a national newspaper. Seven minutes after twelve is a time Neil is in Esha to kick us off. Question or answer? Neil. Hi, James. I've got a question. You know the things that you get on Brighton Pier, where you've got the sort of bodybuilder and the girl in bikini you put your head through and have your photo taken? Yes. I'd like to know what they're called. That's a nice question. Why would you like to know what they're called? Well, I run a chiropractic clinic in Kingston and I'm always looking for things to put onto my Facebook page, just to give the clinic a bit of a. Bit of a lift. And I was thinking about getting one made, perhaps with a skeleton or maybe an athlete or something, and putting it in my reception, having patience take their photo with it and just post it, just for a bit of fun. I like that. I mean, from the point of view of commissioning one, it's a piece of wood with a hole in it and some paint on it. I'd work that out. I thought you might have done it. I'd like to know if they've got an official name. Sort of victorian picture postcard period, isn't it? I don't know if it does, but if anyone can find out, it's us. I love that question. The problem is now, every time I repeat the question, as I have to do through the cause of mystery, I have to employ the same sort of clumsy phraseology as you, with a correct name. The boards you stick your head through and take photos of when you're at the beach. I think you did it a little more eloquently than I did, though. Liar. Neil. Thank you. Eight minutes after twelve. What is the correct name for those boards you stick your head through and find yourself atop the body of a well upholstered woman in a bikini when you're visiting the beach? They also do it at children's play, parks and sundry. But is there a name for it? Is there a name for it? Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Dave is in Slough. Dave, what's your question? Hello, James. I would like to know, all my children would like to know, why is it rude for you to put your elbows on the dining room table? I know this. Just go on, mate, come on. Because they asked me why. I said, why can't they? Why can't we put our elbows down? I said, because it's rude. And they said, why is it rude? I said, I don't know. I like your kids. They've got a long future ahead of them as journalists. That's the spirit. Why? Why that? Why is it? And did you find yourself saying, because it is, Dave, at any point? Because I was told it by my mother, who was told it by her mother, who was told it by, I don't know, years down the line, I suppose. Why is it rude to put your elbows on the table? I just. I'm trying to keep you talking in the hope that the penny will drop while I've got you on the other end of the line. But I'm not, I'm not. I'm not getting it. No. Something to do with knives. Is it something doing knives? Ah, absolutely. No. It's not there either. No. All right. No, I know nothing. I got nothing. I got nothing. Dave. Nothing. I got. I got even less than you. I just thought I had something, which is embarrassing now because at least you admitted you had nothing. I pretended I had something and now I've got nothing. I've got less than nothing. Why is it rude to put your elbows on the table? I don't know. Why? I was thinking about knives and the French or something. Nope. Nothing. Absolutely naba zero. 345-606-0973 if you know why it's rude to put your elbows on the table. Or is there a name for those end of pier entertainments which involve you sticking your head through a hole and appearing on top of an over large ladies on bon pon bomb? Gary's in Crystal Palace. Gary, question or answer? Hello, James. Gary, question or answer? Hi, mate. I'm in Lanzarote. You're in Lanzarote? Yeah, I was in Crystal palace when I tried you last week, but I didn't get on, so you. Now you've phoned from Lanzarote. Can we change Gary's records to reflect his location? He's in Lanzarote, not Crystal. Are you on your hollibobs, Gary? I am. I think you might have remembered my picture. I tweeted. I do. You look very nice indeed. Yeah. It made us feel great that, seeing you and your sub saharan paradise. What's your question? I'm with my little boy, Oliver, and he wanted to know about the four. You got your four suits off the cards, you know, your heart, diamond, space. He wanted to know where they come from, why they're on the cards. She's embarrassing. This week I got loads of stuff I thought I would know the answer to. I don't know any of it. Yeah, I wasn't sure the answer he asked on the flight. It started with tarot, didn't it? I'm not sure. I don't want to lead him in the wrong direction. Diamonds, hearts, clubs and space. What's the. Yeah, all right, you're on. Okay. How old is Oliver? 27. James, he's five. Give him our best. Seriously. We'll try and get him an answer. Where did the four suits come from in decks of cards? Why is it rude to put your elbows on the table? And what are those? End of pier entertainment call where you stick your head through a hole and appear on top of somebody else's body. Annie is in Woking. Annie, question or answer? Hello. My kids have been so tough. They got through surf school in Devon last week, camping. And when we were at the surf school bearing mine, they're only six and nine. The lifeguard said to us, always wait for the fourth and the 7th wave because they're always bigger. And then we started jumping over the waves. And it's true. Fourth one and the 7th one are always bigger as the tide coming in. No, that's not. It's true. Well, how do you decide what the first one is? Well, that's what we were trying to work out. So you wait for, like, a really shallow one, and that comes in and you jump over it. You jump over it, and then the fourth one. And then either the fourth or the 7th one will come in and it's much bigger. And that's the one you jump on when you're bodyboarding. And that's how you learn to body board and surf. But how do you know? You're not answering my question. How do you decide what the first one is? Well, you've got to just kind of work it out. So you wait for the big one. Oh, no, no, no. Because I'm choosing a big one as the first one. You know, that's the 7th one. How can it be 7th if you haven't got a fast. Right, so you wait for that one to come in and you jump over it. Yeah. And then you puddle out and paddle out, and then the next few that come in are much smaller. And then the next one that comes in should be the 7th or the fourth. I don't. I don't think you're making any sense. I think I am. I know you do. What? Honestly? Really? But you can't have a 7th wave. You can't have a 7th wave without a first, a second, a third, a fourth, a fifth, and a 6th. I think you should definitely put it to the listeners, honestly. Really? Why? But if. If I choose your 7th wave, that's your 7th wave, right? Yeah. That's the big one. Yeah, that's my first one. That's my first wave. Okay, well, that's your first wave. We'll rule it on number six. One of us. One of us is sounding very silly, and I'm not 100% sure that it's. That it's you anymore. Okay. I really, honestly. So the small ones come in, and then a big one comes in, and then it's back to the small ones again. Something causes it. All right? Fourth and 7th, the numbers, the cycles of what? Somebody. Somebody knows what you're talking about. Perhaps. No, I said perhaps. I said perhaps. We will find out for you. I think we might be doing a bit of that next week as well. So if it is true, I'd like the information myself. Was it. What was the name of that lovely little girl last week? Was it Aurelia? Got a bell ringing on Aurelia. Producers on holiday. I have to do it all myself these days. Was it Aurelia who wanted to know whether a giraffe can cough? And I promised I'd put it back on the list this week. If I've got your name wrong, I'm so sorry, but I've got your question, so there you go. One out of two ain't bad. Can a giraffe cough? We're putting that on the list as well. Dennis is in Turnpike Lane. Dennis, question or answer? Hey, James, I've got an answer. Go on. Why you shouldn't put your elbows on the table? Is it the answer or an answer? The answer. Oh, good. All right, then. The definitive answer. What it is, is it goes back to the days when not many people could have pulled tables. So what they used to do is they used to put balls across. Yeah. And these trestles. You're right, yeah, yeah. And if you put your elbows on the table, you'd tip the balls up. Yeah. So the table wouldn't be permanent. You'd bring it out at meal times, rest it on a couple of trestles. And it's happened, actually happened to me at the Edinburgh festival. Dennis, whoever told you this story? We were doing a show at the Edinburgh festival and it involved a massive dinner table being laid out for dinner. And there was an american guy in the play. I can't remember what his name was. We were doing slum clearance by Vatslak Havel. It involved him being quite lucian and arrogant. I was the worker, I was the voice of the villagers coming to complain about the rich people up the hill ruining our town. And on the second night of the play in Edinburgh, he was obviously really getting into his character and chilling out and feeling relaxed. So he leaned back on the table, he sat. When you perched your bum on the edge of the table, and it all went belly up, the whole shebang. There's twelve places laid in this little theater in Edinburgh, and it wasn't part of the play. It was quite, quite remarkable. Yeah, it was worth. It was the best bit of the play, actually. And I had to do an ad lib. I can't remember what I said. I said something like, I hope you build better houses than you do tables, or something like that. Just managed to save ad libs better than the play. 1215 is the time, Dennis. Round of applause. How do you like them apples, Dennis? Love it. Love it. I never thought I'd get a round of applause. There you go, mate. You got a dream big. It's 12, 16. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the questions include, is mystery out underway? I know the elbows question came up a couple of weeks ago. But look, we're only human, all right? We are fallible and we are human. Repetition is the enemy of mystery. But sometimes it's quite fun when questions come around again. You heard the fellow, he got a round of applause. He was over the moon. But also, Sophie and Beth are on the phones today. They haven't worked on many mystery hours, so you can't expect me to do all the heavy lifting. Just keep it friendly, all right? Stop sending me abusive messages telling me that you heard that question two weeks ago. And stop sending me abusive messages saying that I was the one that sounded silly during the conversation about the 7th wave. Everybody knows this. Apparently it's even in the Dustin Hoffman film Papillon. All right, so if you start with a big one, the one after a big one is wave one. Waves four and seven will be big. Why? Zero. 345-606-0973 what else do we need to know? The names of those seaside entertainments where you stick your head through a hole and appear on top of somebody else's body and can a giraffe cough and the origin of the suits on playing cards. That sounds familiar as well. But anyway, we're there now. Dave's in reading. Dave, question or answer? Answer. Come on, Dave. It's for the seaside prop that you stick your head through. Oh, yeah. It's called a peep through board. Is it? It is. Peep through board. A peep through board because you fundamentally peep through it. No, I know. I didn't need the explanation just in case. Just a bit stupid sometimes, but I'm not that soft. It's been one of those days. I know what you mean. Everything wrong in a second. Now everyone's going to be correcting me and talking to me like I'm simple. What are your qualifications, Dave? I had to hire one of these for a customer early on in the year for an event they were running. And I spent a little bit of time, time speaking to prop companies and so so forth, trying to explain in the same way as a gentleman that phoned up with the. With the question of what I was looking for and it just came back in conversation. So you're looking for a peep through board? Peep through board. What sort of peep through board did you get for your client? A fat man sitting in a deck chair with a model like lady in a bikini stood next to him with his arm around her. Mate, you've done it, you've absolutely nailed it. One mystery. I have a round of applause. Peep through board. If you had to invent a name for it, you might come up with peep through board. But that was a beautiful answer. Comprehensive. There you go, we've done it. We can cross that one off as well. And the elbows. So the waves. All right, it was me. Often the way I've said it to you a million times, when I start condescending to a caller, suggesting that they're sounding very stupid, it usually comes back to bite me on the backside. And it turns out it was me that was being stupid. It would appear from my inbox that the waves question is very much in the category of questions I thought were stupid, but it was me that was being stupid. I still don't understand what the first wave is, though. 23 minutes after twelve is the time. And can a giraffe cough? I need a zoologist or a giraffe expert or a giraffe, I suppose. Can a giraffe cough? It was a question of a really, really nice ten year old girl last week. I remember it because my ten year old daughter gets cross when I let other children on and don't let her on. 23 after twelve is the time Jay is in Coventry. Jay, question or answer? Answer. Play it, Jay. Yes. Answer for the wave question. Really? Yeah. Go on then. It's to do with the natural frequency of water. So if you're carrying cups of tea, the natural frequency on the 7th step is going to. Is most likely to overfill you, most likely to spill it. So it's to do with the bounce frequency of the natural frequency of the water. I don't know that you're helping, Jay. I'm sure you're right, but you may need to simplify your explanation slightly. The bounce frequency of the water. Yes. So it's the natural frequency of water. So if you tap water at the frequency at a certain frequency, the water will vibrate at a maximum. So the 7th and the fourth wave is just the maximum that's caused by that vibrations of the water. Why? It's just to do with the wind and the way that. It's just the way the unnatural freaks. Every particle has a natural frequency. It's just laws. It's just laws of physics. So where's the first wave, then? The first wave will be. You can count anything, it's all relative. No, but then. No, no, this is where my brain starts hurting, because if I choose that wave there and start counting, and you choose a different wave and start counting, the fourth and 7th waves aren't going to be the biggest. How do you know which wave to start with? Well, it will be one for one and one for other. It's all relevant. When I went surfing a while ago, we tried to count for the 7th wave and I kept missing out, but it's just. Stay there, Jay. Don't go away. I'm just going to chat to Axel, my colleague, a bit. He won't be able to hear his voice. Mate. Am I sounding stupid? Not at all. Not even a little bit stupid. Well, how do you know which is the first wave? Everyone's texting me to say, this is well known. It's in that Dustin Hoffman film, Papillon. But how do you know what the first wave is? Because if the first wave is the one after the big wave, that could be the fifth wave. What if you just count to seven, which one is the biggest? What? What if you count seven, say, right, the fifth one look like it was the biggest? Yeah. And again to five and then after the 6th one will be the first one. That's supposed to make it easier to understand, is it what you just said? You count to seven and then you think, which one is biggest? Yeah. Okay. Then whichever one you thought was biggest, you know what number it was? That was seven. So five was seven? Yeah. So, yes, five, seven, then you. So one is three. So I'm on three now. Four. So the next one will be big and then five, six, seven. So you start from the biggest and the first wave is the one after the biggest? Yeah. Why? Why is it again? It's to do with the natural frequency of water molecules. See, that is the sort of thing I would have said at school while all my mates were sniggering, because I was clearly talking out of my bum. It's all to do with the natural frequency of water molecules, sir. Yes. And my background is that I did a. I did a. My dissertation. My master's thesis was based on vibrations of engines, so I was looking into frequencies and damping and things like that. Stay there, stay there, stay there. Jay. Phil's in Barnes. Phil, what do you reckon? Oh, hello, James. Talk to you. Likewise. So, when you go surfing, you'll sit on your board during lulls and then you get sets of waves that come. So a set of waves will be a pulse in the ocean that comes from that low pressure, basically. So you'll sit on your board looking like a bit of a wally for five minutes. You don't, you never look like a wally if you're sitting on a surfboard, especially if you've got kind of, you know, blonde highlights in your hair. Okay. Like Brad? Like Brad, off home and away. So you sit on a board, you wait for the set to come? Yes. I don't think the fourth wave and the 7th wave is relevant. Oh, but it wouldn't be the first wave. It probably be about the third or the fourth wave in the set. And then they will typically be the bigger wave of the set and then you'll surf those in, then you'll paddle back out in the lull and then wait again. And would it be the same one in the set the next time? You're typically not always take the first wave. If you watch pro surfing contests, they'll probably let the first wave go through because it tends to. This is just ignorance for me. Now you're a surfer. Jay's written a thesis. Did he sound right to you? He's coming at it from a scientific perspective. And I think that most surfers in reality would just know that when you get a swell that comes from a low pressure and the lower the pressure, typically the bigger the surf. But would it repeat? Would the cycle repeat? Is it feasible that the fourth and 7th waves or the 8th and 12th waves would be the biggest? No. I've never, in 25 years of surfing, I've never heard it being prescriptively the fourth and the 7th. But it's in Papillon, apparently. Dustin Hoffman says it to Steve McQueen. He says 7th wave is the biggest. Oh, well, I can't overrule Steve McQueen. Well, I don't any of us can overrule Steve McQueen or Jay. I mean, it looks to me like Jay's going to get the round of applause. Well, it depends if you want to take a scientific rather than a practical perspective. I'd like to do, but I'd like to do both. But so many people recognize the 7th wave story that it must be true. And your explanation of it denies that it's true. Jay's explanation not only confirms that it's true, but you wrote a dissertation, Jay, didn't you? No. Yeah, I did. Also, it's not just waves, it's also cups of tea. So if you actually got a cup of tea that's filled to the brim or even not filled to the brim, if you just have a cup of tea on the 7th bounce, if you're walking on the 7th step is where it's going to go the highest, so you're most likely. So it's like maximum oscillation? Maximum oscillation, that's it, yes. It's all to do with oscillations and things like that. Is it really? Yeah. I just use the word oscillation correctly. You did, yeah. It's all to do with natural frequency. At natural freak. At the natural frequency. Yeah, I know that. It's oscillations in it. Maximum oscillations, you get a maximum displacement. Can a giraffe cough? I don't know. Oh, well, round of applause for Jay. Nice wave to Phil. A fond, fair farewell to Phil. It's 12:30 Rupert barter is here with the headlines. Unions mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1232. It's all going to be bit pizzant. Stewart's inquiries to the left of me. Stewart's inquiries to the right of me. Questions that still need answers. Can a giraffe cough? And what's the origin of the suits in playing cards? I need some more questions. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you hit the numbers now, you will get through. Actually, it's only half time, but we've rattled through quite a lot this week. I need some. I need some questions. Zero 345-606-0973 getting a lot of repetitions. We're having to politely decline a lot of calls this week, not just because the two people answering the calls haven't done many mystery hours, but also because, of course, it's the school holidays, so lots of people are listening who don't normally listen and don't realise their questions have been dealt with before. But, hey, that's my problem, not yours. John's in Hampton. John, question or answer? It's an answer, James, the one you've already had answered, but I'm not sure if the answer was a little bit dubious. That's called a stewards inquiry, John. Could be. Could be. You better get it ranked up. All right, then, come on, what have you got? Well, I'm thinking more. The peep through answer might be more pertinent to Soho or maybe Amsterdam. Peep show. Not peep through. A peep through board. A peep through board. Yeah, yeah. The. The, um. The carnival cutout, as it was referred to back in the 18 hundreds, american side, first of all, or the festival cutout, or even the beach cutout or festival amusement cutout. That was the sort of broad names. If you're ordering one today because you wanted one for the foyer of LBC, you would ask for a stand in. A what in a stand in, as opposed to a stand up. A stand in, qualifications. We used to build them for a sign company I worked for many moons ago called the Sign Express group. And primarily you have them there in most of the foyers of big theaters. So it could be Aladdin, you know, whatever, some sort of economy. Could you not both be right? Because couldn't the other fellow be right as well? I mean, it could be called a peep through board, but also a carnival cut out and also a standing. It could have lots and lots of names. The four primary names, the ones that if you were to look and try and hunt for it, you'd see carnival cutouts because they originated from the carnivals, where you'd have the strongman posed with the empty head slot. There would be no sky generally on it, and that's why it was a cutout. They didn't tend to be a big square board with a hole in the middle. So the original ones came from America, the barnum circuses and so on. And then obviously the Victorians, they're like an expert on this. Who'd have thought they'd be an expert? My mum used to make fun of people at a bar. She's like that. She was very funny. She used to have one at the end of the bar, one at kids height and one at adult site for the sneaky people who'd walk around the back of this west country inn to try and order a drink from the side. And on the inside, facing the customers, was a gorilla suit and a little tiny chimpanzee. It used to make everyone laugh. I've had three to get a drink. I can give you two rounds of applause. One for your lovely answer and one for being such a nice bloke. That's for the answer. That's for your general excellence, John. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Sam's in Croydon. Sam, question or answer? Question. Go on. And when you're not working very hard, someone says, pull your finger out. I want to know where that comes from. It's because you're sucking it. When you're messing about, when you're being lazy, you've got your finger in your mouth or you're picking your nose. I don't believe that. What? Not. What's not to believe? I never suck my fingers. You pick your nose. Huh? Drop myself in that one a bit, didn't I? Yeah. And when do you pick your nose? When you're not, when you're bored, when you're doing stuff you shouldn't be doing. Get your finger out. You pull it out of your mouth or pull it out of your nose. Just, you know, you clearly, if your finger is employed elsewhere, you're not doing your job, might be having a scratch. Pull your finger out. I think there might be a more elaborate explanation for it. Rather than picking your nose, do you? Go on, then. I don't know. That's what I'm asking. Pull your finger out. Where else could it have been? Maybe it's not rude. All right, I'll leave it on the board. But I am short of applause this week, mate, and that's looking quite likely for me to come in later and swoop down and claim it for myself. But the origin of the phrase to pull your finger out, it's a nice one. We haven't done it before, but it must be, mustn't it? You're being lazy. You're chewing your nail or picking your nose. And. Zero. 345-606-0973 next in Chelsea. Net. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. It's probably quite a simple question, but it might have quite a complicated answer. I'd like to know if humans invented maths or whether we discovered maths. Does that make sense? Well, you'd have to define maths, wouldn't you? Okay, I guess the intrinsic numerical value of the universe, I suppose, because things like PI, the ratio of circles, radius to its circumference, is something we discovered. But then you have things like calculus, I suppose, and algebra. Actually, I don't think there's a question here. I think, as you've just proved. Fair enough. Because you mean you were talking about calculus and PI and pythagoras. Really? You just mean counting. So I guess my question is these theories, this light propagator theorem, did he discover that and it's a natural phenomenon or invented. No, of course he discovered it. Okay. Because if someone. Because if someone else had come along later and done the, you know, the. Whatever it is, the opposite and the adjacent and the hypotenuse, it would still have come up with the same result. So he didn't invent it, he discovered it. Yeah, that's specific for that example. But there are. Well, that's why it's not a question, you see. So in terms of maths. Maths is numbers. Numbers are a human invention to describe something that already existed. It's like words, you know, an apple is an apple, but it's only called an apple because we decided to call it an apple. So we invented numbers. We came up with numbers, but they describe eternal truths, universal truths, like the fact that if you've got two of something and you add two more, you'll have twice as many as you have before, which we call four. So maybe I'll doubt my question and say, does the universe have an intrinsic numerical. I can't, no. I thought we'd end up there. 1239 is the time. Adam is in Staffordshire. Adam, question or answer? Answer. Come on, then. Whereabouts in Staffordshire are you? I hate it when we do this. It makes us sound so London centric. It's a big county. Staffordshire. Whereabouts are you? Yeah. Tamworth, Southern Staffordshire. Yeah, I know it well. Carry on. What's your. What's your question? It's an answer. Sorry? Oh, sorry. What's your answer? Even pull your finger out. Well, I'm doing my best, mate. Cannons. In the olden days, you had cannon. One chap would stuff the gunpowder and the cannonball into the cannon. Another chap was sticking the ignition wick in. Another chap wanted to light the ignition wick. Oh, he's good. It stickies the ignition stick wicking with his finger. The other chap would say, come on, mate, pull your finger out, because he'd want a light's head. Cannon. Boom. Qualification boom. Literally. What are your qualifications? I don't know. I don't know where I know that from. I do. School trip. Whereabouts? I used to have Warwick Castle. School trip at Warwick Castle. Eric, did you grow up in Tamworth? I didn't know. I grew up in North Derbyshire. North Derbyshire. Where would you have gone then for that? You still Warwick Castle, probably. Did you ever go on a school trip to Warwick Castle? I think. I think it was Carnarvon Castle. Caernarvon Castle. That's where it will be. You've been. Or on a ship. You might have been on the. What's the one you can go to now down on the. On the south bank? And you've been on. You've been somewhere and someone has explained it to you while you've been looking at a cannon. I'm certain of it, definitely. Round of applause for Adam. I love it. Love it. Pull your finger out. Involve cannons and gunpowder and all sorts of stuff. Well played. Cannon giraffe cough zero. 345-606-0973 and the origin of the suits on the cards for your man in Lanzarote and his son, Oliver. I thought we'd have nailed that more quickly. But we're not. We're not. We're not. 1240 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. Very, very busy, but you still got a chance of getting a question on the board. Joe Zim Windsor. Joe, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Jo. Are smells good smells and bad smells? Learnt. What's that noise in the background? Oh, it's a big truck, the mangle. Going for a minute there. I'm in the car. Fair enough. So what you mean is, does someone need to tell you that something is nasty? Only recently has he started commenting on smells being bad smells, as opposed to when he was younger. Would. He wouldn't have noticed that smell? Is it because he's heard us say, oh, that doesn't smell good? How old is he? He's just about to turn three. Three, because, I mean, I don't want to get indelicate, but you have to teach children not to be fascinated by the contents of their nappies, for example, don't you? Yeah. Yeah. And also, you know, people that live near something that smells bad and they've always lived there, you know, do they notice that that's a bad smell or is that just a smile they've grown up with? So they don't know. And, yeah, I was thinking, yes, and because you might. You might. Well, we all love the smell of fresh bread, but. No, we don't. We probably wouldn't love the smell of fresh bread until we tasted fresh bread. So we've learned to love the smell of fresh bread. This is a brilliant question. Oh, that's a lovely smell. You know, and then. Have you just. Yeah, that's a dad. Yes. White musk for me as a teenager. White musk from the body shop, because the girl that I was going out with at the time was absolutely gorgeous. I've always loved the smell of white musk, but if it had been on someone, if it had been on someone I didn't like, maybe I wouldn't have loved the smell of white musk for all these. Exactly that, yeah. Oh, what a lovely question, Joe. We put it on the board. Do we learn to like or dislike bad smells? Good smells? Zero three. Or is it somehow in 80? 345-606-0973 is 1242. Paul is in Colchester question or answer? Paul Stewart, inquiry. James? Well, on that math bloke asked the question, mate. This isn't going to end well, Paul. Good. Let me remind you, the fellow who asked the question ended up by saying, I've got no idea what I'm talking about. Ah, but I have. Oh, go on then, Paul. I've warned you. The fundamental concept of math has to start with the concept of zero and that has to be invented. There are tribes in Africa that still only can't count because they have 12345, then many. And lots of fingers on their hands. Yeah. What if they haven't got anything? You've got to have a concept of zero. So once you get that, you start at zero and you go 01234, and then you've got 1020, etcetera. And so maths has to be invented. And so it was invented by the Arabs. No, you're just describing the invention of a language to describe something that already existed. Well, what is math other than the language is describing something that has to be exist? That's exactly what it is. Which is how I answered the original question. No, you didn't. Well, actually, I did and I just answered it again. Yeah, but you didn't really give it the. No, no, I did, Paul. Did you? Oh, yes. Oh, no. Naomi's in Luton. Naomi, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why are your veins, when you look at them on your skin, bluey green. They're not, but when they're in here, they are gone. But when you go inside the body, they're red. Yeah. What's the mystery? Why do they show one color outside and another color inside when there's no oxygen present? They're blue. It's only when they get out of your veins that they turn red. Oh, isn't it? Okay. No, I might. I know. Don't go. I don't do that. I'm being all arrogant and rude and you've been all polite and nice. I could. I might have just made that up, Naomi? Well, I did hear something about oxygen once, but then I thought to myself, well, that doesn't quite follow, because. Well, maybe it does, actually. But I was thinking, when they show an operation, yeah, it's really red. Now, I appreciate there may still not be oxygen there, but it just. I think the answer involves oxygen. But I certainly don't think that I have provided you with an answer that you should be satisfied with. And I'm a little bit. I'm a little bit embarrassed that you were polite enough to pretend that I had. Oh, no, I'm just. I'm just. Because thinking about it, that doesn't quite follow, does it? Because when I'm looking at my veins, that still doesn't explain why they look blue. It is blue. It is blue. Inside you, it's blue. As soon as it gets outside, it turns red. But I was happy with that as an explanation until people started to show operations with little cameras, right? Yeah. And when you see the operation, little cameras inside, it's red. No, it's not. It is. Think about when you go to the doctor. Sometimes you have an operation and they rather unfortunately, can sometimes show it live. Back to you. Maybe the vein. Maybe the vein is blue, but the blood inside it's red. That's good. Well, it's good and bad. It's good in the sense that it fits the available evidence. It's bad in the sense it completely contradicts what I tried to pass off as the correct answer just 48 seconds ago. My son thinks you're very smart, so he's going to make his decision on this answer. I've got a lot of time for your son, and I prefer being told that your son thinks I'm very smart. To the usual much is. I get my grand. Thinks you're magnificent. That seems to be so, yeah. Well, we're spreading the generations on this one. What's your. What's your son's name? Theo Keo. Theo. Theo, right. Top name. Like Theo Usherwood, our political editor. The boy's going to go far. Well, I will leave the question. It's a great name. I will leave the question. The board. Theo's on holiday at the moment. Much needed break. We're going to run out of time. You've got to get that answer for Theo. Why are your veins bluey greeny when the stuff inside is red? 1247 is the time. And giraffes coughing we're just letting down children left, right and centre this week on the program. And. And the origin of the suits in card games. Those three are all for children. Come on, you hard hearted lot. Help. Help the little children. It's 1247. It's 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where a few more mysteries need to be solved. Can a giraffe cough? Did we do the wave? We did do the wave. Question the origins of the suits in a deck of cards. And do we learn smells? Do we learn that they're bad? I thought I better clarify that last one before reading you this message that came in during the news regarding the smell question, James. I can't ring in due to work, but it's not really an answer. I was born and brought up on a dairy farm and I lived with the smell of cow poo. I'm now 57 and I absolutely love the smell of cow poo. It reminds me so much of those long, hot, carefree summer days as a kid on the farm. And Mike, who's in Chiddingfold in Surrey, ends on this line. That's going to take some beating, I think, especially only ten minutes of the program left. I would love my wife to wear cow poo perfume. Dragons Denmark. Seriously? Colin's in New Southgate. Colin, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Colin. The deck of cards. One. Yes. Now I've got 90% of the answer in my head. I'm pretty sure. Go on then, get it out. I used to be, when I was young, I was a member of the magic circle. Steve Allen still is, you know. Oh, Steve Allen. I forgot to tell everybody. He's won another award. Did I tell you this, Conor, did you know about this? No. Steve Allen has been voted the 10th most popular voice on the radio by a panel of experts in the Radio Times. But. But the public vote, the vote that was for everybody online. Steve Allen, my friend and colleague, came first. The most likable voice on british radio ever. So congratulations. I forgot to say that yesterday. Thank you for reminding me. Anyway, back to the magic circle, Colin. Okay. Some years ago I was in LA and I had the fortune of going to the magic circle there. Oh, yeah. Where they do dinners and shows and there was a particular magician. I can't remember his name. The great soprano story. Yes. Using the suits of the cards. And apparently from what I remember, somebody will no doubt ring in and prove me wrong. It was pre the french revolution. The french cards used to play a lot of cards. Of French. Yeah. And they named them after different areas of the public. Yes. I don't know which suit represented which member of the public. Is that it? Only one, possibly, I think. Is this your answer? Spades was the king in France. This is it. And then there were other sections and that's how the name kings. Sorry, kings, spades, hearts, etc, etc. Is this it? Well, what else do you want? Well, an answer. Be nice. Well, that is the answer. You just come on the radio and just sort of meandered. You've just been having a meander, mate. You've been meandering after french cards. What? French? Named after french cards. That doesn't even mean anything. Well, the French used to play. I think maybe the French even invented playing cards, but I don't know that. I know you don't. That's how they did it. They told stories. Yeah, they gave names to the cards based on groups of people in France at the time, before they all had that group. What groups of people, though? Who do the clubs represent? Unfortunately, you know, when you get to my age, the mind goes a bit. Colin, Colin, you know when you were in the magic circle, did anybody ever make you disappear? Are you going to try and do that now? I just did. Paul's in Wimbledon. Paul, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Paul. Yes, James, in reference to the babies. And can you just do something about your phone? Have you got me on hands free or are you just. Are you just in a bucket? I'm just standing here in the open. All right. Not quite sure what's going on. Have you got your phone upside down? No, it's completely right way up. Do we learn smells? Do we learn smells? Yes, we do. Really? Yeah. When we're born, as babies, we're a complete blank canvas. The only thing that we have is obviously the fear of falling or the fear of loud noise. Everything else that happens in our life is something that we have to learn for experience, either through our peers or our parents or people around us. We don't have an automatic dislike for something until someone tells us. That is, for example, a child doesn't not like spiders until someone tells them it's a spider. You know, we have to learn all of that. And smell is a sense that we also have to learn. Like, for example, there are some smells that you would like and other smells that you'll find quite repugnant, but other people will like. Love it. Qualifications? Anatomy and physiology. Five years of it. I'm personal trainer. And how to learn it. Obviously, human body is one of. One of the biggest things that you have to learn. Sweet as a. Sweet as a nut, mate. Send you a round of applause. Boom. Thank you very much. You're very, very welcome. Canna giraffe cough and we certainly still need to go back to the suits in a deck of cards. Still not clear on the waves either. What was the other one? We've done the smells. So that was for. That was for Theo, hasn't it? Natalie is in St. Albans. Natalie, question or answer? Answer. Come on then. About the blood in your veins when you see them as blue. Yes. It's actually to do with light passing through your skin. It reacts and causes it to appear blue. But actually the hemoglobin is the coloured part in your blood and it never actually becomes blue, it's just the light makes it look blue. So it's the properties of the skin that make the blood look blue? Yeah. It's nothing to do with the actual color of the blood, although the blood. The color of the blood does change when it. When it comes out of the. Because it gets older, doesn't it? Gets darker, the less fresh it is. But it's not. It's never actually blue inside the body. It's never blue inside the body. It's always a red color. Different shades of red. And it'll be darker or lighter according to whether it's making its way into or out of the lungs or the heart or stuff like that. Would it? Yeah. Qualifications? I'm a biomedical science student. All right, yeah, that'll do. Round of applause. What does that mean? Does that mean you're going to be a doctor? Something along those lines, yeah. Are you patronizing me slightly, Natalie? No. You totally are. I think you're perfectly entitled to 1256. My ignorance is my problem. Professor Martin Smith is here, professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. So I don't think you're here to tell me whether a giraffe can cough. So you must be questioning a previous answer. No, I was going to try and answer the one as to whether maths is invented or discovered. I thought I had done well. All right. I might be able to add a bit to it. I'm sure you were right. I've got an elephant keeper on the other line, so I can't give you too long. I think he's going to be able to answer the giraffe question, although maybe he's just sort of veering out of his sphere of expertise. A bit gone. Was maths invented or discovered? I'd like to say a bit of both. Yeah. Well, obviously math is a language which tries to represent the universe. Logic said that and logic has the universe. I'm not a professor. Just because I'm not a professor, you don't take me seriously, do you? Take you very, very. I said all this. Well, it's just use a word that I don't understand and then I'll give you a round of applause. So mathematicians invent a way around it. Yes. To explain something. They invented the language to describe stuff that was already there. Well, the math evolves in order to. I've got to go. I got. I've got an elephant keeper on the other line. I warned you. Okay. I cannot keep the keeper waiting. Andrew's. In seven oats. Question or answer, Andrew? Answer. Can a giraffe cough? Yes. Qualifications? Well, I used to be an elephant keeper. The giraffe house was next door to the elephants. They'd lean over, quite often, would sneeze and cough. Yeah, they can cough. Why did you. Why did you take. I mean, why aren't you an elephant keeper anymore? Oh, now, that is a long story. I went to the press. Did you? Yes. I've only got a minute left. I knew this was going to happen. Tom Sawbrick, scoop antennae are tweeting. Obviously you can't commit any libels here, but did the elephants. Are the elephants all right? Basically. Elephants are very hard to breed in captivity. We got a successful breeding program going and investment wasn't put in to monitor the cow. And she gave birth alone and killed it because she had no midwife elephant with her, which is what happens in the wild. And we were obviously going to be the midwife elephant. Oh, mate, I can't believe that you've managed to ruin mystery hour. Well, you are. I know I did. It's my fault. I didn't know we were gonna go. I thought we were all gonna be cheery and bouncy and now we've got a dead baby elephant. Well, it's a several. Well over 20 years. But we got an answer to the giraffe. So we're gonna look on the bright side, have a round of applause, and I'm gonna dedicate today's show to that dead baby Elliott. I think it was called a hearty. Hearty? Yeah, after Russell. No, no, hearty is in the indian. Oh, yeah, hearty as in the jungle book. Colonel Hearty. Never give him a name. It just makes it hurt all the more when you lose them. All right, this. This show was for hearty. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from ten some sawbricks next.