I love cranes

See? Three minutes after 1203. Four. Five. Actually, no, you don't need the number and there aren't any phone lines free. Sorry, can we start again? We rewind that three minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour with me, James O'Brien. If you don't know how it works, stay put. I'll give you a quick heads up. If you do know how it works, then you know, prepare to be amused, educated, enlightened, possibly even. I don't know, possibly even informed. I look upon this as the radio equivalent of those newspaper articles, those newspaper features where someone writes in with a question and then weeks later another reader writes in with the answer. Except it's a million times more exciting than that and a thousand times quicker. If you don't know what I'm talking about, just stick around. You ring in with a question a who are, why or what, aware or when? A whither or aware. For there are only two rules. Don't be dull. In fact, that applies all the time, not just during mystery hour. Don't be dull. Don't be dull. Never be dull. Don't ring in with a question to which only you will be interested in the answer. For example, don't ring in with a motoring related question, is a usually fairly reliable arbiter of whether it's going to be dull or not. And I'd rather you weren't repetitious, but I appreciate that's not really your job, it's more mine. In other words, don't ask a question that we've dealt with, and I've modified that slightly over the years that we've been doing this together. Don't ask a question that I can remember dealing with relatively recently. You can go to LBC dot co dot UK and have a look at painstakingly curated and often hilarious archive of previous questions and answers. It also give you a flavor of how unserious this is. Some of the best answers are wrong. For example, some of the best questions are rudely torn apart by an incredibly arrogant host who describes them as ridiculous and evidence of poor intellectual capabilities. And then within two minutes, he looks like a complete Herbert. Because the question is a hell of a lot more intelligent and a hell of a lot more interesting than he realised. In fact, if you hear the incredibly arrogant presenter pooh poohing a question, good reason to stay tuned, because it's almost guaranteed that within five to ten minutes, someone much cleverer will come on and make it clear that the question asked by the caller, who was far too modest to object to being maligned by the incredibly arrogant presenter was a much better question than anybody realized. Are you still with me at the back? Good. Then I'll begin. Abby is in Radlick. Question or answer? Abby. Hi. A question. Carry on. Ok, so I was just wondering, what's the origin of the word watershed? I know that the genuine origin. So nothing to do with television, but the actual word watershed. Can you imagine? Two lakes. Yeah. Now, I was about to say two lakes with a dividing bit between them. Yeah, that's a watershed. So it's not actually a lake, it's a drainage basin. So it's something into which water it's been dug to irrigate land. And for reasons I don't fully understand, you separate drainage basins and the thing that separates them, like a sort of wall, is called a watershed. Okay. You're not very excited. You were expecting something more exciting than that, weren't you? Yeah. Yeah, way more exciting. Well, it's not my fault you asked that question. It's a crest, if you will, dividing. Well, there's nothing I can say to make it more exciting. Abby, I'm really sorry. No, it's fine. Thanks for trying. Yeah. All right, well, this is the worst round of applause I've ever had. No, actually, keep it, Abby. Do you want it? I don't want that. It's soiled by. It's soiled by how bored you are by the answer. Do you want that round of applause? No, we can share it. Yeah, keep doing what you do. Flipping it. Well, the only way is up Adam's in Wimbledon. Question or answer, Adam. I've got a question. James, hurry on. Well, basically, it's about birthmarks. Yes. When my mum was pregnant with me, she was kicked by a horse. Hang on, isn't this. This is a joke, isn't it? Well, I say joke, I use the term very loosely. Is this a genuine question? It is a genuine question, I promise you. My apologies, then. Carry on. Yeah, she was kicked by a horse on her inner thigh. Now I've got a birthmark on my inner thigh, roughly around the same. Why have I heard this before? Why have I heard this before? I don't know. I'm hoping either you've got an answer or someone has. I mean, is it actually a thing or is it just a coincidence that I've got the birthmark there? Do you know what deja vu is? Yes. Yes, it's. Do you know what causes it? I was reading about it the other day. Something to do with chemicals in your brain. That get released in exactly the same way that a memory does. So you're convinced that this has happened before, but actually it hasn't happened. It's just a chemical reaction that feels exactly the same as a memory. Either I'm having a fairly profound moment of deja vu or I've been asked this before. I think we've been destined to talk to each other. Have I dreamt about you, Adam? Well, let's not go there. So. And that's where I've come away with this weird idea that you're setting me up for some sort of prank here. No, I promise, it's. I mean, I can send you a picture of the birthmark. Let's not get carried away, mate. Could spoil all my dreams. So your mum got. Obviously. You don't have a birthmark on your inside thigh because your mum got kicked by a horse on her inside thigh, do you? Um. I. I don't know. Really? You want me to put it out there? What is the origin of birthmarks, then? If you want to, you start. Can't start jumping around like a palomino pony you've got. You're not having any of that. I will find out whether. Is there an old wives tale about mums being kicked by a horse having birthmarks? Maybe that's what it is. I'll tell you what you think you've seen a blank face till you look up at my colleagues to during mystery era. There you go. Three blank faces. See no evil. See no evil. See no evil. I. I'll do my best for you, Adam. And my apologies for. My apologies for just veering into the aggressive at the beginning of this call. I hope you feel I reigned it back in in time. No, I listen to you all the time. I know what to expect. Not quite sure that's the response I wanted. Nine minutes after twelve horse kicks and birthmarks. I've done the watershed. Kyle's in Salford. Kyle. Question or answer, Kyle? Nope. We'll get someone else up on that line. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Is there any relate? Of course there isn't. But Adam was a nice fellow and I was nearly very rude to him. So we'll leave that question on the board. And we need some other ones as well. Mohammed is in hounslow. Mohammed? Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. The ozone layer. We don't hear much about it anymore, but I'm sure the hole is still there. What I like to find out in nature, things like trees and plants and what have you. Anything that gets damaged. Eventually it sort of repairs itself and comes around. If we as a species stop polluting, would the ozone layer be able to repair itself? I thought it had done. Oh, had it? Well, I thought it had got better. Either they misunderstood how serious the problem was in the first place or the ban on CFCs, because do you remember it was the CFCs that were supposed to be causing the ozone layer. I thought it had worked. I thought that the ozone layer had kind of repaired itself or, you know, the layers of gas in that part of the atmosphere had kind of replenished. Is that definitive, James? Does it sound definitive to you, Mohammed? Not really. Not even close, my friend. Are we going to get one of the professors on? I don't know. Probably not confined to professors. We can have a layman answering this. We could get a new professor. But you're right. What's happened to the ozone layout? That's really the question, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, you're on. Alright. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you know the answer to that. Marie is in Romsey in Hampshire. Marie, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Okay. When I was young, we used to get eggs from the supermarket. Yes. And some of them were brown and some of them were white. Yes, but now it doesn't matter whether free range or, you know, battery hens or whatever, wherever you buy them, you open the. But they're all brown. No, they're not. Yeah, I can. Well, which eggs are you buying? All sorts. I mine chickens for a while they were brown because my chickens were brown. But a white chicken will lay a white egg. But every. All local supermarkets because they're getting them from. They're getting them from industrial farming projects. Even if they are free range. What you need to do. What happens to the white ones? Whereabouts in Hampshire are you? Romsey? You just drive into the new forest, find someone that's flogging eggs from their own garden and you'll find some white ones. But why are they all in the supermarket? Why are they all brown? Because they have. Is it cheaper to get the brown ones? Well, there'll be better layers. I mean, it'll be the breed of chicken that has become proliferate. Is that a word? The breed of chick. The breeds of chicken that. Hang on a minute, I'll start. I'm just going to put my teeth in. Stay there a minute. It's the breeds of chicken that have proliferated in the commercial production of eggs. Have been selected because of their regular laying, their longevity, and probably partly because of the size of the eggs that they lay and because it's the breed of chicken that determines the colour of the egg. The predominance of the brown eggs that you're receiving is down to the predominance of the breeds of chicken that are now part of industrial chicken and egg farming. Give yourself a round. I think I will. Thank you very much. I got a little feeling the cat flaps open on that one for a steward's inquiry, but I know only a small feeling. Thank you, Marie. It's because we were spending a lot of time in Norfolk and there's loads of chickens around there. I was telling you that. The bloke who told me they don't have any problems with foxes because of all the gamekeepers. And you can often buy a box of eggs at the bottom of someone's garden and they're often a variety of colours. Ellie's in Chalfont St Peter's. Ellie, question or answer? I have a question. Are you on half term? Yes, I am. You're going to get me into trouble with my own daughters now because we've let you on during your half term. They'll say, why didn't you let us on during halftime, Daddy? But that's my problem, not yours. Ellie, what's the question? I wanted to know why we have our ring for marriage on our left finger. Our left hand on the ring finger of the left hand? Yeah, it's, um. It's to do with a vein that goes straight to your heart. Oh, is it? Yeah. I always thought it was like. I didn't just say tradition. Well, it's both. But the reason why the tradition started is because people believed that a vein ran directly from that finger to the heart. Hand to heart. Oh, say like heart for love, basically. So you put your wedding ring on the finger that's linked to your heart as a pledge of your eternal devotion to whoever it is that you've got wed to. Okay, thank you. Hang on a minute. Can you sound a little bit more excited? Stroke grateful, please. Thank you. Jane, give yourself a round of applause. You sounded even more bored than you did the first time. Third time lucky. Ellie. Come on, give it some oomph. Come on. Well played. It's made my day. It's coming up to 12:15 listening to James O'Brien on LBC. You've got ozone done. Eggs done the ring finger. What else have we left on the board? What was Mohammed's question? Mohammed was the ozone, wasn't he? We'll find out. I think we're doing pretty well, actually. Schedules coming up to 12:15 you're listening to mystery hour. James O'Brien on LBC. If you've got a question or if you can answer any of the questions that have already been asked and you're struggling to get through, I'm told by them. What? No, that judicious use of redial is the answer. So just keep, keep hitting the buttons and you might get a dial tone eventually. It's 1215. This is LBC on LBC. It's 90 minutes after twelve. Questions that still need answers. I think just the ozone one, although I've got a feeling the egg one might have been wrong. Even though I took my round of applause to the bank watershed one was definitely right, despite people moaning on social media. So I'm not giving that round of applause back. Even though the person that asked the question could not have sounded less overwhelmed by the quality of my answer. A description that I would have applied to Ellie. But she came through at the end there with a, with a blinding one person round of applause. So I'm not going to put her on the underwhelmed list. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. If you've just tuned in, you've got no idea what I'm gibbering on about. Hey, plus a change. Have all is in Norbury. Have question or answer? Question, please. Good afternoon. Can we determine or can scientists determine the time of or date of a person's when they were conceived from their DNA? Why do you want to know? I knew you'd ask that question. I don't know. Just like that? It's just like one step further from date of birth. You mean like carbon dating of DNA? I don't know how the moment of conception. I. No idea. It's a great question. Don't pinpoint it to the, to the time at least the date or the month. Do you know? Oddly enough, I wouldn't have thought so. For the very simple reason that all of the very distasteful brouhaha surrounding the child refugees coming from Syria and the two or three of them who looked to be much older than 18 could have been so easily avoided. If a simple DNA test, if you could just take a swab and determine the moment of conception. That's, that's just my like, theory. Yes, I. Yeah, but it's not an answer. It's just I would find it hard to believe if it was possible to do that, they wouldn't have done it in those circumstances, but I'll put it on the board for you. Can you date someone via their DNA? Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. I like that. Ozone and DNA. And, you know, speaking of children who look a lot older, I'd like you to look something up for me. It's a cracking tale for two reasons. Number one, it's just got romance written over it. 15 year old schoolboy taking time off school to play in a golf tournament for the first time. He's just got through to the third round of the Welsh Open after knocking out number 78 in the world. But you have a look at that picture and tell me what the Daily Mail would have done with Jackson Page if he'd got off a boat from Syria and come here seeking refuge. 15 years old. Just look it up now and then. Have a. Well, if you're made of nice stuff, have a sort of wry smile on your face. And if you made a bile, just spit a bit. I don't know that there'll be any other response. Kyle is in Salford. Kyle, question or answer? Question? James, come on, mate. Essentially, it's a bit of a weird one, but why do we eat bacon for breakfast? Why is that the essential breakfast meat? I'm not sure if you had this one before. No, never. But I can. I'm gonna. I'm gonna have a go at this off the top of my head. I've heard a rumor go on about a marketing campaign. Really? Yeah. I've heard there was a salesman in America that essentially did a thing with doctors and essentially said, is eating bacon healthy for breakfast or any less healthy than eating other meats? And they said, obviously no. And then that got a bit of spin put up on it and that's how they advertised it seems unlikely, though, doesn't it? Well, that's why. That's a question now for yourself and your listeners. It's because it's cured. Because bacon is cured, so it lasts a lot longer than other meat. So that's the reason why you'd eat bacon and not uncured meat. But surely we could have beef jerky for breakfast by that? Well, you can if you want, mate. I'll stick to my bacon. And also beef. Beef jerky. I don't know what the manufacturing process of that is, but I think it involves quite high temperatures that would not be confined to northern Europe, which is essentially northern Europe and America, which is where bacon really kicks on, isn't it? Yeah. So it's. So it's cured. So. And also because it doesn't need. Because it keeps. Well, because it's cured. You don't have to go out and buy it. You can keep it overnight and then have it for your brekka in the morning. Get in. Get in. Yeah, I think you better hit that one for a six. Do you? Really? Good one. Axel's not impressed. Axel's doing the head shake. Axel's doing the head shake. The Axel head shake in the house. I don't know that I can take this round of applause. So we've got bacon and eggs on the menu at the moment, so I'll leave it. I'll leave it on the board. Why do we have bacon for breakfast? If I have answered it correctly, I'll claim half of that round of applause subsequently. All right, thanks, sir. James. Cheers, Carl. 23 after twelve. Dean is in the city. Dean, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. All right, come on. The egg question. Why are some eggs brown and some white? Yes, I heard this the other night on believe it or not, duck quacks don't echo. Oh, yes. With the ears on the chicken. Some chickens have brown eggs, brown ears, some have white. And depending upon the color of the ear, depends upon the color of the egg, really. And the reason we have brown in this country is purely aesthetics, because in America they have white eggs and over here we have brown. And it's purely just for the look. We just prefer brown eggs over here. Okay, I'll give you my round of applause. You saw it on the teddy. I can't really argue with that. I forgot to explain the qualifications thing, didn't I? Well, like I said, duckwax, I heard it the other day in the introduction today. I forgot to explain the qualifications. I do believe you did. You want to handle that for me, Dean? Do you want to take that one? Do you want to do that? I'll leave it to you, sir. All right. If you ring in with an answer like Dean just did, I will ask you what your qualifications are in order to establish the provenance of your answer. But it doesn't have to be, you know, a PhD in applied mathematics. It could be, as Dean just demonstrated. I saw it on the telly last week. Andy's in Bromley. Andy, question or answer? James. Good morning. One of these curious ones that, sadly, every time I've sat in traffic looking at a building site, have curiously wondered. Go on. The exceptionally large cranes, you see with skyscrapers and the very tall, thin ones with a man, sits at the very top with a very long arm at the end of it. They are traditionally massive concrete weights to balance it. How do they get without building another crane? Because surely that needs the weights. Get the blocks up there in the first place, because otherwise you've got to build another crane of equal height that surely would need the same blocks to get it up there. So how do they get them up there? Oh, you sausage. I know this, it is something to call me a sausage, but you know, it is now talking to us, talking to myself, it is to do with building another crane. But how does that crane then? Wait, because when it picks up the blocks, it equally will have to have a weight to balance it. Oh, do you know, I love cranes, I thought I knew a lot about them. Yeah, well, cranes and bridges. Cranes and bridges are my jam. Are they? I can look at bridges for hours. For what can you tell me about cranes then? Because you can't tell me this one. No, I thought I did, that's what I'm saying, mate. I'm having a bit of a moment, Andy, do you want to not just sit there gloating? Well, I'm quite enjoying it, to be fair. I thought you said, you know what, Andy, that's a really boring question. I'm actually delighted you quite like it. Well, I love cranes. It probably is quite a boring question, but I love Crane, so I'm with you on this one. It's not boring to me. And the weight. So how do you get that massive weight up there? Should be obvious. All right. You know, at one point, I think I went for about four calls in a row from fellows that were up tower cranes about five years ago on the show. Because what would you do? You wouldn't want music on if you're up there all day, would you? You'd have a bit of speech, radio on, keep me company. We were going to do the show from up one once, Andy, we even looked into it, but the insurance was prohibitive. Fair enough. And I didn't want to, you know, I didn't want to go to the living. A bottle. 27 minutes after twelve is the time. How do they get those massive weight blocks right up to the top of the massive cranes? Why do we have bacon for breakfast? Can you age a human via DNA? I'm presuming not because of the recent refugee brouhaha. Which brings me back to the 15 year old snooker player in the Welsh Open at the moment, who, if he'd had the audacity to arrive here having fleed war, would have been on the front page of the Daily Mail. Because he's got a beard and looks a lot older than 15. But there we go. We are where we are. Ozone. Question, am I right in thinking that's not fair? Yes, it is. Am I right in thinking that the ozone layer is repairing itself since we banned cfcs? Cameron's in Ilford. Cameron, question or answer? Question, Mister James Ob. Bring it on, mate. Ok, ok, ok. Listen, when we get bad news. Yeah, all right. Why do we lose our appetite? Yeah. No, I'm completely with you. I mean, it's. It's. I mean, it's nerves, isn't it? And stress. But you want a chemical explanation, you just lose your appetite. You just don't feel like. Probably a hormone. It's probably a hormone that's been released so into your system that takes away the need to eat. Could even be fight or flight, couldn't it? Because if you could do in a fight or flight, if you're adrenalized, you're not going to stop for a snack, you've got a leg it. Or you got to kick someone's head in. Cameron. But, you know, if you're gonna take. You're not gonna take that for an answer, are you? No. No. Why do you lose your appetite? What was my appetite? No, it was you, mate, in the background. No, no, this is me, man. I've got you in my car stereo. No. Why do you lose your appetite when you get bad news? Yeah, man, I do. Yeah, so do I. No, so do I. I mean, I lose my appetite when I've got, you know, a gig as well. Sometimes I can't eat for hours before doing a gig. And I like it because it adrenalizes me and the nerves. But then there's probably a link. But as I've made blindingly clear, I'm clearly not the man to explain it. Cameron, lovely question. Thank you. 29 minutes after twelve is the time. Why do we lose our appetite when we get bad news? How do they get the massive weights up to the top of the massive cranes? Why do we. Bacon for breakfast. What's going on with the ozone layer? And can you age someone via their DNA? I think Jay will be first up after the news headlines and he's got an answer. Or he thinks he's got an answer to the ozone layer if it turns out to be exactly the same answer as the one I've already provided. I'm in such a lovely mood today. I'll let him keep the applause. I'll give him the. I'll give him the money. Myself. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour will continue momentarily. Before that, Simon Conway is here with the news headlines. A teenager has pleaded not guilty to the murder of on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can answer any of the questions on the board. I forgot about the horse's kick in the birthmark. One which I had a weird moment at deja vu, if you were listening, which may have been completely misplaced, but there is no. Surely there's no way. What was the fellow's name? Was it Adam? I can't remember. But there's no way. If your mum got kicked in the thigh when she was pregnant with you, that would be why you'd have a birthmark on your own thigh. But unless I have had a weird moment of deja vu, I'm sure there's some old wives tale about horses kicks and birthmarks. Just put me out of my misery, will you? On the usual number. Can you date someone? Can you age a person? Can you track back the moment of conception by using DNA? A simple no would suffice. As long as you've got the qualifications. Why do we have bacon for breakfast? How do they get the weights up to the top of the really enormous cranes? Why do we lose our appetite when we have bad news? I like all of these. And the ozone layer. What's going on? What's going on, then? Jay is in Hitchin in Hertfordshire. Jay, question or answer? I don't answer. James, bring it on. All right. So it's for the ozone layer question. Yes. So you're kind of right, basically, because, like, the CFC gases got banned and they weren't being used, the ozone layer is retiring itself. It isn't repaired yet, but if you can guess the year that it will be repaired by, you can share the applause with me. 2050. Yeah, you're right. Now give it back to Jay. Someone tweeted it a while ago and I don't accept answers on Twitter. Give it back to Jay. Jay. Sorry, mate, I just picked your pocket there. Give it back to Jay. There you go, mate. That's all yours. No, thank you. Oh, hang on. Qualifications. You could have made it up. What are your qualifications? Well, I was just on one of these YouTube video crawls and this video just came about the other. Sounds reasonable to me. There you go. Internet as educator. It's a good job my children aren't listening. It's educational, Daddy. It's educational. Daddy. Danny's in my land. Danny, question or answer? I've got a question. Please, James, bring it on. Okay. My granddad had an operation recently to remove his bladder. I've constantly been told that the human body is like a jigsaw inside, where it all fits together in there. So when he had his bladder taken out, I asked him what happens to the, you know, the empty space in there? And he's like, oh, I don't know. I was like, so what does happen with the empty space? Do the organs just fall down or do they put something in there? I don't know. Oh, dear. Oof. I've got no idea. It's a great question, but it's a little bit icky, isn't it? So he's had his bladder removed, has he not had it replaced with anything? No, no, it's. So he uses a. Anyway, we don't need to embarrass your granddad. So, I mean other things. You mean like do they use a bit of stuffing or. Yeah. So when you have an organ removed, it may be specific to the bladder because it may be a different answer for different sort of ectomies, as it were. What goes in the gap? Yeah, I really like that question, but I don't like the images that it's conjured up in my mind. Well played. So what goes in the gap when you have your bladder or other organs removed? Zero. 345-606-0973 I keep saying the number because we got quite a lot of questions on the board. We've got to start answering them. Guys, Alex is in Southgate. Alex, question or answer? Answer. Cranes. Cranes. Cranes. They start off with a mobile crane to build the first crane. Like on the really big sites, you know, we have two cranes. You start off the first one with a mobile crane, which is a, you know, big mobile crane, basically. Yeah. I tell you what it is, mate, it's a crane, right? That's mobile. Yeah. It looks like a bit like coming out of Thunderbirds. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I've seen them. And that's where you start. And, like big sites like the shard and all that, they're two cranes. So. So they build each other up as they go up. So on a normal one, the mobile crane would have started it off, so they'd have used the mobile. And then it goes up in stages, doesn't it? You jack it up, the big crane. Yeah. Well, on the really big sites, like the shard, you always have more than one crane. So as you use. Because I'll say the. Yeah, but the first crane, how do they get the weight on the first chicken and egg? This. It doesn't matter how many cranes they've got, how do they get the weight to the top of the very first crane? Great. But that's by the mobile crane which doesn't have the, the ballast in the same way that a stationary has big huge legs that come out. Yeah. And it's a major operation when they set them up. But don't they go up like in stages as well? Don't they build them up from. Yeah, you can do. But they say once you get this, the first section going, depending on how high you building, you see, you don't need another one building up from the ground because you can use the crane. You've already got to bosch the new one. That's right. First start is a mobile crane. Qualifications. 30 years in building tracing. Plenty go up and plenty come down. You've counted them in and you've counted them out. Do you understand my strange fascination with cranes? Or would that a bit like train spot incredible kit when you actually see them being put together? They are, they're amazing. It's like, did you have Mikano set when you're a kid? I did. Where you get your fascination from? I did. I don't know if it was from them. There's a lad called Dale who lived over the road who built a crane out of Meccano. So now you come to mention it, he had little motors on it and everything. It was a thing of beauty, Alex, I'm not sure ever recovered from the envy. And like bridges, it's a sign of man's dominion over nature. A massive bridge or a massive crane. I like to think of it as emblematic of humankind's taming of the elements, Alex. Sometimes it's amazing how they build them. You think, how the hell does that get that across? Yeah, exactly, exactly. Yeah. Especially in the olden days, you sort of think of, you know, the bridges that were built in the 19th century. God knows how many people died doing that. But again it's taming a river, a bridge. So you're a fan of Isabar, Kingdom Brunel? Big fan. He's buried in Kensal Green cemetery. I saw his picture in the National Portrait Gallery on Monday. Actually is in car is in bard, Kingdom Brunel. It's a lovely, lovely. It's a nice, nice old graveyard. This has all gone a bit weird, this conversation, hasn't it? You were ranging about cranes. It's all gone a bit romantic and poetic. Give the man a round of applause before I start putting rhymes out there. 1239 is the time. Professor Halley's here. Professor Halley is the professor of the public understanding of sciences. The University of Brighton. Question or answer? But let me guess. Okay. It's something we need to talk about first, though. Oh, go on. What? Did I actually hear you correctly saying? We could get another professor? Yeah. You already have a doublet of professors. You do not need a triumvirate. No, it's not personal. Well, no, you shouldn't be upset about it. It would be like being 20 up and then complaining if your team scored another goal. No, but you hurt our feelings. I'm sure. I've won. I've won. That is a brilliant answer. I'm sure Professor Smith is likewise crying into his tea in the common room. It's not. It's not. Why would you be like that? You can't have too much of a good thing when you put it like that. We can answer a question, can't we? Are you doing DNA or ozone? DNA. We've done ozone. Have we done ozone? We've done our DNA then, innit? Go on. What have you got? James, do you know how babies are made? Yeah. Okay, so we also know that sperm can be stored. And so to answer, just to give you a kind of caller hypothetical, if you stored sperm in liquid nitrogen, which is currently done, you could use it today or you could use it tomorrow or you could use it next week. So if there was some way of coding when an egg was fertilized, something would have to change in that sperm and it would have to account for something that has yet to happen. I. To conceive an egg. But a sperm is half a blueprint for a human being. Yeah. So you can't. It hasn't got, like, a time stamp to say, this. This was used today, so you couldn't. No, you can't. You can't use DNA to age someone in any way, shape or form. It's not quite true, actually, because, well, you get a ballpark figure. Could you. You can. You can look at evolutionary trends and that's how they sort of. Yeah. Homo erectus, homo sapiens, homo. What are you calling a homo? No, it was homo superior, homo erectus. And all the various iterations of humankind up to now. You can look at DNA and say, well, okay, that came from that era and that came from that era. And that's a broad to the nearest million or so. Okay. Yeah. But not. Not in order to get a refugee into the country. You could just say this guy was born within the last million years. No, exactly. Not like a little barcode. Round of applause. 1242 is the time. In the unlikely event that any unintentional offence was caused by my bantering with Professor Helther. Listen to the podcast of the first hour for a clearer picture on where we stand on such issues. Jeff Sim Wandsworth. Jeff, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Hi. Why do some bacteria have an odour and others don't? Why? Why are you asking that? I don't know. What bacteria doesn't have an odor. Be careful. Yeah, that's a good question. I don't know. I just thought they wouldn't. Well, how do you know they don't? I thought all bacteria smell because it's essentially. It's degenerating. It's rotting. Yeah. Neither of us know the answer to that. Hang on a minute. I don't think this has gone quite as philosophical as you think it has. I don't know. In order for your question to be asked, you've got to know that there are bacteria that don't smell. I know one of us is amused by this and one of us is baffled. I'm not quite sure which way round it is. 1243 is the time. Here you go. If you understood Jeff's question, then answer it. Haider is in Watford. Haider, question or answer? I have an answer for you. Bring it on. All right, so, first of all, I love you. Big fan. Thank you, mate. I love you, too. Thank you. Connective tissue is what keeps all the organs in place, so you don't have a hole inside you that gets filled up by all your other organs. Connective tissue would grow, would it, if I had something removed? No, no. Connective tissue is all around you, so, no, that's love inside. I beg your pardon? It's all inside you. So all your organs are held in place by connective tissue to the walls of your abdomen and the other organs? Yes. So it's. It looks like a white film, actually, when you. When you open someone up and it's made of fats and that's what holds everything in place. Obviously, there will be some floppage, but. Slippage. Did you say floppage? Floppage around? Yeah, absolutely. Is that a medical term, floppage? No, not at all. No. All right, carry on. So, yeah, essentially you will have some sort of cavity where his bladder was. So there'd be a little gap there, but nothing to worry about because there'd be enough floppage to sort of. You know what? Hang on. What are your qualifications? I studied pharmacology at university and two years of that was anatomy. Have you ever done a. Have you ever cut a body open? Not humans. What? Well, guinea pigs, rats. My sort of monster. Are you? Pharmaceutical research. That's what they all say. Give them a round of applause. It's a lovely answer. So it's all about connective tissue and floppage. Floppage. So many jokes, so little time. Ross Powell has never suffered from floppage in his life. Here he is with the LBC travel news. Thank you very much, James. Starting first on the a five, LBC. It's 1249. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Questions that still. We've done pretty well on this. What do we still need? We've done the cranes. Why do you lose your appetite when you get bad news? If you know the answer that. Give us a call. Just something. Something. Horse kicks birthmarks. Give us a call if you know the answer to that. We've done that. Floppage was the answer. The bacteria smelling question. There's quite a few still on the board, including why do we eat bacon for breakfast? What ain't in Basil? Doing great. Gosh. Was a great friend of the program is Wayne. Wayne, how are you, mate? I'm good, mate. You all right? Yeah. Mustn't grumble. I liked your Valentine's story the other day. Thank you. You're very welcome. It's an answer. By the way, you didn't ask me a question. Yeah, give us a chance, will you? I was just doing a bit of pants. Oh, mate, you're 45, mate. I'd say that. Question. Answer. Go on, then. Your question about the bacon and eggs was kind of half right. Oh, yeah. In his question, bacon eggs came around through a guy called Edward Bernays. He's known as the godfather of Pr. He's Sigmund Freud, or he was Sigmund Freud's nephew. And he used a lot of Sigmund Freud's techniques in his advertising. So what he did with the bacon and eggs, because the american diet used to be quite grain based for breakfast. Yeah, he was. Yeah. He was hired by a packaging firm that mainly did sort of meat products. So what he did was he went to a doctor and leaned on him, who's one of the internal doctors of the firm he worked for, leaned on him and said, look, could we say that we benefit from a protein rich breakfast? He said, yeah. He said, can you write to some of your doctors friends, colleagues, and confirm this. He wrote to him, he got 5000 responses and then he used that in the advertising to say, right, all these doctors say that a protein rich diet is good for you. Have bacon and eggs for instance. Wow. How do you know that? Qualifications? Because I read his book propaganda about two years ago and guess who put me onto the book? Who? Alex Jones of all people. Well, for the Infowars bloke, yeah. Oh lord above. Um, yeah, but he also, the thing is with this um, Edward Bernays guy, he also used um, because smoking was taboo in the thirties or twenties. So what he did was he got all these women to dress up in like these, the same sort of coats tied into the suffragette movement. He was hired by lucky strike and he got these well to do women to walk around in these parades with the cigarettes held up saying, light up your torches of equality. And that filtered through into. That's really interesting. What's the book called again? Propaganda. It's a decent reader. That's why when I listen to the news I'm very, very skeptical. Yeah, I know you are, mate. You can't be too skeptical. Do you know what I'm going to do? Do you know what I'm going to do, Wayne? What's that? I'm going to have a propaganda at that book. Thank you. Please. No, I did not make that joke off you. That was a flipping homegrown. That was beautiful right there. Open gold, slide it home. Go through my Twitter history, you'll see it there. And do you know that's because Matthew Freud, the sort of king of PR for this generation. I never knew that there was a PR link in his family. I knew he was related to Clement Freud and Sigmund Freud, but I had no idea that another branch of the family had kind of invented modern Pr. Yeah, Edward Bernays, he was, he was a massive character in the sort of like propaganda. You're a clever lad, Wayne, or at least you have become a clever lad since you started listening to this program. Oh please. Round of applause. See you soon. 1253 Randy is in London Colony. Mandy, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. I have adopted three donkeys from the donkey sanctuary. They're brilliant. They've got webcams, right? Oh yeah. And do they sleep standing up? Oh, you mean they're in a donkey sanctuary? They're not in London, Colney. No, they're in Sidmouth in Devon. Okay. Do they sleep standing up? Webcams. And they seem to sleep standing up. They don't seem to lie down. So let me just get this straight. You've got a webcam that is in a stable where a donkey sleeps? No, I haven't got the webcam. They've got them there. Yeah, but you've got access to a webcam that is in a stable where a donkey sleeps. Yeah. And they are standing up when they sleep. But your phone me to check. Well, I don't know, because sometimes they sit down. But do they sleep standing up or are they just dozing? I think they should. Don't horses sleep standing up? Do they? I don't know. I think they do, yeah. All right. It's getting a bit circular, this, isn't it? So, horses, donkeys sleeping, standing. I like this question a lot. Yes, it's a devon. Yes. Well, I would. Next time we're in the area, it's half to. Oh, there's lots of. They've gone away without me this year, Mandy. Oh, dear. I'm here paying for it. Oh, but slog. I did a double shift yesterday. I haven't plumbing, I've barely slept. Oh, they've got a camera on the outside. Oh, yeah. And there's lots of kids there today because it's half term and the donkeys love it. They choke them. It's been a nice mystery out today. It's been all warm and cuddly, hasn't it? I'll get you an answer. I'll do my level best. The donkey sleep standing up. There we go. Thank you, Mandy. Laura is in. Steven ish. Question or answer, Laura? I have an answer. Good. Good stuff. Bring it on. Excellent. So it's about the appetite and stress question that was asked. Yes. Bad news. Why do we lose our appetite when we get bad news? Yes. So, bad news. So you're right in terms of the flight or the fight situation of modern stressful situation. I guess if you want to think about it in evolutionary terms, and what you do is your body releases the hormone cortisol, which is the. And what it does is it aids metabolism of fats and proteins in your body to increase your blood sugar levels in order for you to either fight or to run away, basically. And what this then does is it suppresses other systems in your body, so your immune system is suppressed and so is your digestive system as well, in order to basically pull all your resources into either fighting or running away. Brilliant answer. Qualifications? Psychology degree. There you go. Round of applause for Laura. That's beautifully played. And it makes perfect sense as well when you explain it like that. Thank you, Laura. Adie's, in Derby. Ad. Question or answer? Answer, James. Go on, then. Can I just say, I'm a massive fan. I'm really, really excited to see. I'm actually shaking a little bit. Sweetheart, that's such a kind thing to say. Thank you so much. But no, you can't say that. What have you got for me? I'm going to ruin your cuddly mystery hour with some other bacteria. Oh, you understood that question that the bloke who asked it didn't really understand why some bacteria smell and others don't. Yeah, well, it'll all just be the sort of odors produced by byproducts of whatever it is that the bacteria are breaking down. So if you get, like, if your meat starts to go off in the fridge. Yeah. Then bacteria is because bacteria breaking down various molecules and stuff in the meat. And then that, as a byproduct of that, you'll get gases that smell like methane or sulfurous stuff and things like that. Yes. And then there must be things that break down without giving off particularly pungent aromas. Yeah, I suppose so, yeah. Where did he get body odor from, then? What's that? Is that. I think. I'm pretty sure that's bacteria as well. I would imagine it would just be bacteria that will be feeding on your sweat and things like that. Feeding on the dried sweat, dead skin? That's wrong. Well, that's a beautiful debut. Ad. Qualifications. I work in a food microbiology lab. Do you know what? Because you were so nice to me, I'm gonna give you one of these. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you just build it. But come on. A food microbiology lab. Round of applause for ad on a question about that. That's pretty cool. Pretty cool. 80, mate. Take care. We'll speak again. 1257, Bill Highbury. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Bill. It's. The horses and donkeys do tend to sleep standing up. And the reason being it's hereditary, because in the wild they stand up and doze or sleep very lightly in case predators come. Because they want to leg it. They can leg it. Yes, exactly. And I was told this by a friend who's got a livery stable. He said, when they get used to the fact that they're in the comfort and security, they will lay down to sleep. But when they're in fields, that we tend to stand up. That's pretty comprehensive. And you've even shared your qualifications with us without being asked. All right, round of applause for Bill Grace. Are you Arsenal fan, Bill? No, I'm not. Just as well. He's gone 1258. He's in high brie. That's just a question. Adam is in Romford. You got 23 seconds, Adam. Question or answer? Better be an answer. What is it? It's an answer. Go on, question. Oh, yeah. They're not related to being kicked by a horse, because I've got one and my auntie's got one and neither of our mums were kicked by a horse. That's one of my favorite answers ever. That's about as far from definitive as it's possible to be. I don't think he was asking if all birthmarks were linked to horse kicks. He was asking whether the horse kick was linked to his birthmark. But I love you, Adam. It's 1259. That's it for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. A few people asking, when are you going to get LBC one? You can download a free podcast of mystery, actually, so do that. You don't need to worry about LBC one. Here's Sheila. Thank you, James. Later on, from three. Scientists say they now have definitive proof that ADHD is a brain condition, not the result of bad parenting or poor behavior. Is your ADHD, or indeed your child's, understood at businesses in the UK have been named and shamed for paying below the minimum wage. Should there be real legal sanctions against these companies? And straight up after the news, over a million older people are being abandoned by a collapsing social care system in England. So says age UK, who warned that without extra funding, whole areas will be left with too few carers, leaving the old and the vulnerable distressed and uncanny.