What are those things that look like bird houses at the side of the road?- 30 Apr 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time, and Gary has already suggested that we've made the next hour irrelevant. We can all just Google stuff anyway. And I take your point. Actually, that's why I feel that Google is the enemy of knowledge, is the enemy of old fashioned learning and education, and it's what band for the next 55 minutes. So 345-606-0973 is the number you need is if you have an answer to which you need. I beg your pardon? If you have a question to which you need an answer, it's also the number you need if you have an answer to any of the questions that you are about to hear. If you're new to this, then think of those newspaper columns that you're probably familiar with, where readers write in and ask why, where, when, what, whither, whence, wherefore? And then someone else writes in a month later with the answer. The beauty of this is that you'll get your answer right here, right now. You will not have to wait a month for it. And indeed, you may even get a sort of collegiate answer, a joint effort. That's the way it works. Phone lines are open. You will only hear me say the number if I have a spare phone line into the building. Right, and I have one now. So the number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 it's worth using redial judiciously this hour, especially at the top, because we only have two rules. But obviously, given the growing popularity of the whole radio station, let alone this feature, some people don't know the rules. And one of the rules they're going to break without even knowing that they're breaking it. So the only rules we have involve repetition and dullness. So people often pile in right on the top of the hour with questions that we have already dealt with relatively recently, so they are politely invited to move along. As soon as they have moved along, you can pile in and grab the phone line that they've been occupying. The only other rule, and again, people break this one without really realizing that they're doing it because dullness is in the ear or the eye of the beholder. If the question is dull, which will almost certainly be the case if, for example, it involves motoring, then you won't get on board either. The best way of thinking about that dullness issue is how likely is it that a significant majority of people listening to this program are going to be as interested in the answer to my question as I am? And if the answer is none, then you kind of can do the mathematics yourself. That's it, isn't it, really? It can be as silly or as serious as you like. To give you a gauge of how serious some of the questions get, our most enduringly popular contributor who's already been the feature of some Twitter hilarity this morning is Professor Hal Sozopowski, a professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. But when I tell you that he's only one of our professors now on mystery eye, you'll get an idea of the academic interest that this feature inspires. But it is all about the ordinary punters, like you and me as well. So you don't need to have an academic qualification to answer a question. You might just have seen something on the telly, or you might just have. You might have read a book or you might have learnt it at school, or you might be in the middle of your PhD, or you might have done it at college 107 years ago. All right, are we clear? Should we crack on? Should we pile in? Shall we dive? I think we will. You know Patrick's in ealing. What's your question, Patrick? Hi, James. I wanted to know, you know when people purse their lips and then they blow and it sort of makes a high pitched, sort of farting noise, if you will. Can we say windy pops, please? Sorry, excuse me. All right. I wasn't sure if that was okay or not. Well, we don't like it. My eldest hates it. We say windy pops. All right. Do you? All right, my apologies to your elder. That's okay. No, answer me. And. Well, not really, but no. My question is, why is that referred to you too? Why is that referred flowing? Raspberries. Why is it a raspberry? Yeah, why is it a raspberry? Good. That. Is it? I think so. Excellent. Why would it be all right? Everyone's doing how many people? You know, I got a text last week, it said, bloke was stuck in traffic. What were we doing last week that involved doing some sort of physical contortion? Was it about raising your eyebrow? No. Yeah. Sneering. You know, you can. A caller said, why can you only sneer on the left hand side of your face? And it turned out that wasn't even true. Lots of people could sneer on the right hand side of their face. It doesn't sound very true. Yeah, it did at time, trust me. But I got an email of someone in traffic saying that the car to my left and to my right are obviously listening to you as well, because all three of us are doing this sneering thing with our lip. I just. I wonder how many people stuck in traffic have just glanced one way or the other and seen somebody else going like that. We may never know why. It's called a ra. Blowing a raspberry, though, is fascinating. We'll try and get you an answer. Why would it be? I'm trying to think of a physics. It doesn't look like you don't. Does it make your mouth look like a raspberry? Not really. Maybe. I don't know. I've got to stop doing it now. Otherwise I'm not able to talk properly. Katya is in Grantham. Katya, question or answer? Yes. Hello? No, not an answer. A question. Oh, yes. You know those skeletons in biology classes? We used to have them in Belgium, but real ones, real deals. What I want to know is, how can you donate your body to become one of them? Because I'll go back to death. I can't find the answer. I don't know how to. You know, it's something to look forward to after you're dead. If you're an atheist, you want to be a classroom skeleton, do you, Katya? That's what I want to be. How do I go on about that? I don't know. I don't think you can. I think they're all really old. They're all. They're all. And they use fiberglass now, don't they? I mean, I don't think they use real bones. Do they use real bones anymore? Yes, they. I don't think they do. I don't think that. I mean, who's gonna know the answer to this? You don't know, so you shouldn't say anything. Well, I have to say something. Otherwise it's gonna be a very lonely 50 minutes until Sheila Fogarty gets here. Someone's gonna have the answer. Really? All right, then. So you want to be a skeleton, and you want advice on how. I mean, obviously you have a skeleton, but you want to be an academic, teaching skeleton, and you want advice on how you could achieve that ambition. Yes. Thank you. Well, yeah. Have you spoken about it with your loved ones? I kind of have a bit. How do they feel? Well, they think it's better than the other idea I had. What's the other idea you had? You know, that gunter found something with the procrastination, with your body. The what? Oh, all right. There was this body. Oh, the german bloke, the teacher, the fellow who. Yeah, that's you. You want to be like a live autopsy person. Yeah, well. But that doesn't go down well. You're quite morbid, Katya, if you don't mind me saying so, it's good to look at death. You're right. It's a victorian hangover. People tell me our weird discomfort around death. Other cultures don't have it and they're probably a lot happier as a result than we are. I shall try to make you happier, Katya, by finding out how you can become an academic skeleton. But I have a feeling that those doors are closed. I was once tempted to leave my body to Battersea dogs home, but that also is discouraged for a whole variety of reasons. It's eleven minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour with James O'Brien. Why is a. Why do we call it blowing a raspberry when we make that noise with that mouth? And how can Katya become a skeleton? Dom is in chislehurst. Dom, question or answer? It's a question. Oh, good. It's not a driving question, so better I just put it to. Whilst driving in Kent and sometimes in France, I see in the fields a structure which is rather like a bird table or a small roof on a pole. And they've sometimes colored green, sometimes colored yellow. And the ones in France, I've noticed very often they have a large number on the side, three digits. What is their purpose? And what can anyone tell me this, Dom. This is the definition of a dull question, Dom. You put me in an almost impossible situation now because I want to find out an answer for you. But anything that's inspired by something you've seen through your car window is kind of why we introduced the dullness rule in the first place. I know. And now look. Everyone thinks I'm a meanie now. Everyone thinks I'm bullying you, Dom, which I'm not. I'm just trying to. What I'm trying to do, Dom, come here. Between you and me, I'm trying to give the producer, the production team a bit of a ticking off without actually having to do it face to face. So you are the weapon with which I'm slapping the production team around the face at the moment. Oh, hang on. Jones the engineer says he really wants to know now what they are. Well, it's quite a number of them. They're quite common. You see them, especially in France, yeah, right. You win. All right? We'll stick it on the board. You'll be about. Describe them to me again, Dom. I'll get you an answer, Dom, I promise. And I apologize for my rudeness. It was unnecessary and unwarranted. What do they look like again? They look like a small roof. Right. Pole, which is rather like a bird table. If, you know, if you had a roof to protect the seed, which you put out from getting wet. Yeah. There's no floor to it. It's just the roof part. If you follow them up. I do, I do. You know, I think I've seen them myself and I have actually wondered what they might be. Hmm. Leave it with me, Tom. Thank you very much. Sean's in Bournemouth. Sean, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Go on. Right. This might be dull, but it's really important to me. I really want to know. It's not a great flip. I nearly swore then. That's not a great start. If you're. If you're concerned that it might be dull, it's good. It's one of those things that'll make you think, I guess, yeah. So why do cigarette butts have that little orange and yellow pattern on them? Well, so that, you know, not to smoke the filter you prune. No, but I mean, why is it that pattern? Well, why not? But they all have all the different brands. No, they don't. Some of them are white and they just have a little silver line around where the filter is. But what's this kind of orange and yellow pattern? Like, where does that come from? What's. What's the need for that, really? That's the question? Yeah. I thought it might be to camouflage them, but then they should really be grey if that was the case. So camouflage them from who? You know, so when they're on the floor, they don't look messy. I. Alright. I mean, there is a question in there somewhere, isn't there? Yeah. The question is just, I suppose. Why is that? Why that design? Why that design? So to denote the filter is the obvious answer. But you're not saying that. You're saying, why that particular design? Yeah, like, why not blue? So this is a question about the design of cigarette butts. Yeah. Yeah. Been bothering me for weeks. All right, it's 1215. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 19 minutes after twelve. Andy's just tweeted to say. I nearly called up with an answer, James. Then I realized that I'm currently listening to last week's podcast that could have been confusing. I got to tell you, Andy, it would have been better than some of the contributions had so far. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can answer any of the questions we've got. Katia wants advice on becoming a medical skeleton. We also want to know where raspberry comes from, as in blowing one. Dom wants to know about those little roofs on poles by the side of motorways. And we also need to know why cigarette butts are designed like the design on the filter. Yeah, I know. All right. It's not vintage yet, but it's early doors. Pausing Grace Paul, question or answer? Hello, James, it's Paul, the ice cream man from grays. Hello, Paul, the ice cream man from grays. Business booming for you this week? Has the polar plume affected trade? Yes. Great. Hundreds of thousands I'm earning. Listen, how many times have you done that joke? How many times? More times than you listen. It's the raspberry tar question. All right? Do you remember the two Ronnie sketch many years ago about the raspberry blower? No. I probably do. Charlie Foley, the phantom. The phantom. Phantom roll. Yes. Right. And he was blowing a raspberry, wasn't? Yes, that's right. A raspberry tar, which rhymes with the word of the man said, which he wasn't allowed to say. I'll bless you for not saying. It's just straight rhyming slang. Blowing a raspberry, doing. Doing a windy pot. Oh, I. Hang on, yeah. Remember last week when I said to you about the Popeye and the lolly? Yes. You said you was going to carry it over to this week. Why is it. God, you're good on you. My memory shot to pieces. Why is it called a popeye? This is when you stick a lolly in the. Do you stick it in the cone or do you stick it in a screwball? No screwballs. A screwball because he's got a border bomb and it's like a screw that goes into it. Yeah, but I saw a girl. The ice cream has parked up outside school now, and one of the kids yesterday had a lolly stuck in her screwball. What would that be called? A screw papaya? A scoop of pie. Oh, yeah, of course, I should have worked that out for myself. But if it's a normal cone with an ice cream on the top and a lolly stuck in it, that's a popeye, and you want to know why? What's it got to do with Popeye? Yeah. All right, you're back on the board and you get a round of applause for your raspberry tart. Get in there. There you go. I told you. 21 minutes after twelve. Professor Hal is here. Just when you thought that things were irredeemably dull, Professor Hal wades into the fray to enliven the entire situation. Question or answer? Professor hall? Can I have an opportunity as an answer, please? Yes, of course. Skeletons and your original callers wish to become one, Katya? Yeah. In the days of the body snatches and so forth, it may have been possible, but there was an incident some years ago at Alderhey Hospital whereby some babies that were. Yes, it turned out that some of their body parts were kept. And as a result of that, the Human Tissue act came into force, whereby institutions were required to be accountable for storage of any human tissue, of course. And it's actually very, very rigorous. Well, as you'd hope, actually. Yeah, it makes basic music. There's a massive amount of blue sky between what you can actually do and that dreadful scandal some years ago. And so you have. Each sort of university or institution has to have an HTA officer, and they are personally not corporately responsible for the activities of others. Oh, really? Yes. Well, that's really, really interesting. Sorry to get all serious for a moment in the middle of mystery house. So that, to me, is relevant to the mandatory reporting debate that's currently unfolding in the realms of child abuse scandals. Because they're personally responsible. So they would face charges if something went wrong. Yes. It is the same with any organization that uses animal models. And you have an officer who is responsible for the home office and the head of the institution is personally responsible. So if there's a breach, they can find themselves, I suppose, at the wrong end of a huge fine, or even in prison because of this, it makes sure that the checks and balances are in place. So the point about a skeleton is there's an alternative. Now, anatomy schools, for example, need cadavers because students can only really learn by dissecting cadavers, chopping up a real body. A real cadaver. So in the absence of an alternative, they use cadavers which are donated by their. To medical science. Yes, but with a skeleton there is. You can have a fiberglass, one that serves exactly the same purpose just as well. So Katya is going to have to find something else to do with her cadaver. Yes. I think she should have a humanist funeral, which is. Well, no, she could. How would she go about getting cut up by medical students? I think you can make a codicil in your will. And if you tell your family, then what happens is you donate your body and it's discreetly and elegantly directed. And once it's been dissected and for the benefit of society, it's then the remains are buried properly and with respect and dignity. Oh, you're good, mate, you really are. I'm going to give you this round of applause with love. Until next week. It's 24 minutes after twelve. We've got a bit of a problem unfolding, which I'm going to have to share with you. Dean suggests that it's not called a popeye at all. It's called an eye pop, the lolly stuck into the top of an ice cream. See, vocabulary. It's all about the words, isn't it? I don't know, but I still would want to know why it was called that. Simon is in Clapham. Question or answer, Simon? It's an answer, James. Go on. Essentially, I know it as the cigarette butts, but I believe it was originally patented as corkies. Had the pattern on the cigarette, but that was essentially a cork that would filter the cigarette. Everyone must have caught on. And if you want to know how I know it, it was purely because at one of my clients houses, they've got an advert above the cistern of their toilet, and it advertises Corki's patented filtered cigarettes, the much famed cork, but was obviously caught on by everybody else. And now the new one does. When they got the technology to drop the corks, they still wanted it to look like corks, so they didn't spook the customers. And it has been ever thus. Exactly. Simon, you're very, very good, mate. That's what I said. No, what you've done is you've taken a question that I was deeply, profoundly unimpressed by and you've actually made by dinner the answer. You've made it quite interesting. That is almost the definition of mystery. The distillation, if you will, of why we're here. Turning water into wine. It's what we do. Turning water into wine. There you go, have a round of applause. It's my girlfriend's birthday today. Can I just say hello and happy birthday? Of course you can. Happy birthday, Zoe. I love you. Trying to make an honest woman of her. Oh, don't start that. God, we just went to a wedding this weekend. Please, not now. All right, just wondering. 26 minutes after twelve, Ian's in dorking. Ian, question or answer? James, I've got a question for you. Please. Come on, mate. I've got. When I put a red t shirt in with some white t shirts, the red runs and then when I put. Why doesn't the dye come out? When I wash the white t shirts again, because of the way it's been. Oh, I think. I think I know the answer to this. Well, if the liquid is no, I understand. Were you listening to Steve Allen this morning, by any chance? No. Oh, because he put a red t shirt in with his pants and he was. Got ten minutes worth of material out of it on his show this morning. No. No. All right, fair enough. You should. He's very good. But it's not. It's not just about his pants and laundry accidents. Sometimes he talks about Darren day. I think it's quite obvious. I think the amount of dye in your red t shirt is such that it's not all completely absorbed by the fibre, so that when you wash it, some of the dye comes out. That's why they fade. But they never fade to white. So even if you wash your red t shirt a billion times, it would never be white, would it? Because the fiber holds the dye in small quantities in a way that it can never be got out again unless you use bleach. You're very good. If that's right, I'm very impressed. It's got to be right, hasn't it? Well, it's not just with white, is it? It's with other colors. Yeah, but it's the dark. Well, no, the dye will, but just a small amount of it won't wash out. I'll leave it on the board, but I don't know who'll be able to answer it better. Well, you've done very well. I'm a bit more clear than when I first phoned up. That's what I'm here for. That's what I'm here for. But I'm not going to go definitive. I'm feeling uncharacteristically modest today. I'll leave that one hanging. But I will take half of the applause if it turns out to be the correct answer. Of course. I mean, the best advice I can give you is not to put red clothes in with your white clothes. It's 28 minutes after twelve. Julian is in Chelsea. Julian, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Good morning. Hello. It's a bird. It's a birdcage. Birdcage at the bottom. They're very simply, they encourage raptors back into the wild and they're used to perch on the. On the ledge, under cover, hidden from above and they can prey on everything. Especially by the motorways. When animals run across motorways. I don't think. I knew this question was going to cause trouble. They're quite regular spaces. They're not. They're not. And they're not. And they don't have a floor on them. There's no. There's nowhere for the bird to. I mean, what it is, what you have to imagine. Pardon? There's a bar underneath. No, it's not that. I know that. It's not that, because, to my shame, I actually know what they are. Oh, are you going to take a round of applause? No, because I don't want a round of applause for such a boring question. And now I feel bad because Dom was such a nice bloke, asking a question that he didn't realize was dull, and all I've done is criticize him. Okay. Corrected. I'll wait for the right answer. Will you? But now you feel that I've been rude as well. Oh, that's your stocking train. What, now you're being rude to me? This question is just unleashed a Pandora's box of unpleasantness. I knew this was going to happen. A Pandora's birdcage. Shall I say what it is? Have we got anyone online who's got the correct. Yeah, we've got. No, we have. No, that's wrong as well. Everyone's right. I knew this was going to cause trouble. It's not. So we've done that and we've done that and we've done that and we've done that. All right. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. And I'll tell you what, the chances of you asking the dullest question of this week's mystery are now nil. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 33 minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour on LBC. Let's get this one out of the way. Mike's in Towson. No, he isn't. Tony's in Heathrow. Is he? Mike's in. Yes. Mike is in. How do I pronounce that, Mike? Toaster. Toaster. Toaster. Mike's in a toaster. Mike. Question or answer? Toaster. It's just near Silverstone. Answer. Yeah, it's a trick point. A trigonometry point. Yes. And they're used by the people who make maps. No, they're not topographers. No, it's not that. Is it not? Because if it was, they'd be everywhere, wouldn't they? Yeah. Right there. You go, Harry's in Sig cup. Harry, question or answer? Answer, Jones. Please, God, let it be right. I hope so. I think you've been a little bit harsh on poor old Dom, I think. I know I'm being harsh on Dom. That's why I should never have been on the radio in the first place, so I didn't have to be. Anyway, from his description, I think what he's describing is their markers for fuel lines. You have them in Kent because you get me the music, I need to hear it. Carry on, mate. A massive fuel plant on the isle of grain and these fuel lines. Keep talking, Harry. I'm setting up some sound. Setting up some sound effects, mate. Keep talking. All the way to Gatwick. So I think they're. I think they're markers for underground fuel lines and they're inspected periodically. So I used to walk my dogs up on some old issues hospital and I saw them there, seeing this guy turn up in a white van. So I asked him one day what he was doing and then he was just looking. He was checking at the fuel lines, making sure there, you know, there was no damage. Damage across the field. So that's what I think they are. I think they're markers for underground fuel lines. I'm going to extract something finally interesting out of this whole. Sorry, saga, which you've kind of addressed. The reason they're there and can be tracked from the sky, of course, and you're right, they denote gas, oil or aviation fuel pipelines. That's why they're near airports, is why. Probably. Dom noticed them in France when he was on holiday, was probably driving away from the airport, because if they were involved in a crash or some form of pile up, the explosion would be immense. It would be epic. Absolutely. You've got it. There you go. A round of applause, please for Harry on top of the Alleluia chorus. 24 minutes to one. Dave's in Chichester. Dave, question or answer? Oh, that was like pulling teeth. You're telling me, mate. Honestly, Siri, go on. My question is, I ordered something online from a shop and as soon as I hit enter, literally within a second, I had a confirmation on my text on my phone. Yes. To tell me that had been reserved. Now, given that that's travelled up my phone line to perhaps London or somewhere. Oh, you sound like me now. Has it in. I mean, you're using a geographical application for a. Is it really geography? Has it traveled up your phone line? Hasn't it just sort of pinged through the air? It's got to go somewhere. Yeah, but I'd just like to know, how fast is that little packet of data in that round trip taken? It's done it in 1 second. So how fast is that travelling? Is it travelling, though? I don't know if we were speaking the same language on this. Is it true? I mean, have you got Wi Fi on your phone? Yes. All right. How long does it take for the Wi Fi signal to travel from the box to your phone? I don't know. Doesn't that sound like a silly question? No, it doesn't. It's got to be sent to somewhere else, another. It's got to be sent to a computer in another building, somewhere else. I don't know if we're using the right language. Sorry. Is it sent in the context of a physical journey or is it something meta, something. The data must have to travel somehow. Doesn't get there by magic, does it? No, no, it doesn't get there by magic. But it doesn't travel down your phone line either. Well, it doesn't get there through any other method. It has to go through my phone and the information has to go through my phone. So the speed. So you press enter, you're buying your, I don't know, your algae eating snails, and you get the acknowledgement back to your phone. Pretty much the minute, the second, the nano second I'm doing on my computer at home. Yeah, my BT phone line, but I'm getting it back on my mobile phone, so they must have had to process it, send it over to the mobile phone company. They send it back. So in a round journey, what speed is that traveling? This is an interesting. Something quite interesting just happened. Gary's tweeted to say this. Now, this is a dull question, James, but in the same nanosecond, 33 seconds versus 30 seconds, 7 seconds. So in the same five second window, the basically alarm, who is well worth following on Twitter, said, this is actually a really good question. Oh, thank God. I feel vindicated. Why are you vindicated by him? He's not even got a real name. Gary's a real person. He writes cartoons in the Times. You just told me to follow someone on Twitter. He must be better than this other chap. Well, Gary's worth following as well. I'm inclined to agree. I think this is a really good question. Well, now I really am vindicated. Yeah, that's good. Two versus one is better. Go on, then. All right, we'll try and find out for you when you put the hallelujah chorus on. I actually started to retune my radio and he says it travels as an electrical signal, but that's still not answering Dave's question. He wants to know how fast that electrical signal travels. Daniel's in Brockham. Daniel, question or answer? Hello? It's a question. Thank you. Oh, God. Come on. Okay, all right. I've got chickens and all, and I was wondering, why did chickens. Why do chickens lay eggs all year round? But you've got wild birds that only lay in breeding seasons and let sit on them, but you've got chickens that lay on them, like, lay constantly. I know you've got the ones who are like battery head ones and all that, but you've got like pure breeds and all that, but don't, aren't like, designed to lay eggs all the time, but they still lay eggs constantly, but don't sit on them. Well, what happens if you don't collect your eggs? But. Yeah, that's after a while, but not always because you've got some breeds, but those won't sit on them. They just keep sitting on them and then they crack them, don't they? And that's when you get the egg like, egg eating problem. But that's not my point. What I'm trying to say is, but eventually that all birds would stop laying eggs, wouldn't they? Unless you were taking the eggs away. Yeah. Not always, though, I think so, eventually. Well, I've got chickens and mine never lay on them when I leave them. No, I've had chickens in the past as well. I'm a little bit hurt that you're bringing it up, actually, because mine got foxed. Both. Yeah, mine always do as well. So you're bit more used to it than I am. I'm still. Still bit sensitive, to be honest with you, mate. Yeah, yeah. But eventually, even if you couldn't clean it, like, if you're on holiday, left them a pile of food, you'd come back, you might get six eggs, but eventually they would stop laying. Yeah, I can see. Yeah, they'd have to. Otherwise they'd sort of drown in a sea of eggs. Well, they start laying different places, don't they? Yeah, they do, but, I mean, otherwise the answer will just be that they've been bred that way to. To suit human beings. The answer will be human intervention. Whichever way you look at it, whether or not it's the human taking the egg away so that they lay another one, or whether it's the fact that a human has deliberately skewed the evolutionary process to replicate and reproduce the genes of the of the. Of the chicken that laid more. But I sense, Daniel, you're not going to take my answer. You want someone who knows for certain what the answer is. Yeah, because I was going to say. Because. Well, what about, say, for instance, wildlife ones? What about who started taking their eggs away? Would they still lay on them? I think they would, yeah. No, I think they would, actually. Yes, reckon. Yeah, because, like, we've. Because it's the same as, like, the ducks. You know, you got the Mallard ducks. And we're not just going to run through species that lay eggs. Yeah. And then you've got. Some people breed them at home, but they don't lay eggs. Only when it's breeding season, but they take the eggs away and they still won't lay anymore. Are you sure? I think you can buy. Don't forget duck eggs. You can. People farm duck eggs. Yeah. That's like the owls, breeze and all that, isn't there? The breed's actually for that, you know. All right, I'll get. I'll get you a bird. I'll get you a bird fancier. All right. Or a foul fancier. We'll try and get you an answer to this. 1242. So what needs answers? We need to know what. Why is it called a popeye when you stick a lolly in an ice cream? We need to know the chicken in the egg, what came first? No, that's not the question. Behave. I've forgotten the others due to hurling my note, paper and pen across the studio on several occasions during the course of the last 42 minutes. Martin's in Croydon. Martin, question or answer? It's a question. Go on. The question is, how come the queen, her Majesty the queen, has got two birthdays. Why shouldn't she? What sort of a traitor are you? I'm not a traitor. I know you're not. I think the answer will be that one of the queen's birthdays will be the same, whoever is the monarch. So you can plan it and have a ceremonial, the trooping, the color. Birth is like the celebration of the monarch's birthday. And they can't just. You know, what if a monarch should, God forbid, pass away, and you have the official celebration on the actual birthday, and the monarch passes away a week before their actual birthday, so you have to have an official birthday. That applies to all monarchs. Well, I know her birthday is on the 20. I think it's the 21. April. Yes, it is. Yes, but how do you explain the other birthday? I just did. All right, imagine it. She put me in very hot water. Now, what if. What it. Because we want to have an annual celebration of the monarch's birthday. Right? Right. That's what we want to have. If we had it on her actual birthday and we had all the preparations in place and God forbid, her Majesty passed away on the 19 April. What are we going to do? We've booked to close the mall. We've got the guards buffing their beaver hats. We've got. And if she dies one week before her official birthday, we can have it anyway, because the new monarch will also have the same official birthday date. Right. That's it, isn't it? Yeah, of course. Jones the engineer is saying, do they all have the same official birthday? Well, how else are they going to decide when to do it? She has a real birthday and then they just pick a random date for the second monarch's birthday. I'm fair on a scale of one to ten, Martin, how right do you think I am about this? Five. Oh, get lost. Everyone's ganging up on me. Give me a round of applause. I thought they were going to withhold that one of those days. That must be. That must be the answer. So that the official birthday is the one that can be planned, ceremonially arranged. You can close off the traffic, you can make sure everyone's available, invite other people, foreign heads of state. The actual calendar birthday is relevant only to the current monarchy. The official birthday is relevant to all monarchs. And if that's wrong, I'll give you the money myself. 1249 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Questions that still need answers. That ice cream with the lolly stuck in it, why is it called a popeye? We forgot, actually, about the. When you. You know, when your laundry runs. I know it's been a strange week, but bear with me. When your laundry runs, how come you can't unrun it? So when your white t shirt goes pink, when you wash it again, why doesn't it go back to white? I think I've answered that, but I'd like to hear an expert answer. What is it about eggs and wild fowl or wild birds? If. If you stopped taking the egg away from the chicken, the domesticated chicken, as it were, would it stop laying a new one every day? And how long does it take for the electrical impulse in our computer or our smartphone to travel from a to b? At what speed does it travel? So at what speed does a text message move? Alan's in St John's Wood. Alan, question or answer? I have an answer for you, James. Carry on, Alan. The royal birthdays. I thought I'd done this one. No. What? You've got it wrong. Really? Yes, I'm afraid you have gone then. One of our previous kings birthday was during the winter and he wanted to obviously celebrate as we do today, but the weather was atrocious, so he moved his birthday to make an official birthday during the summer months, where the weather normally is a lot better in June, isn't it? Yes. Correct. Yeah, that's kind of the same as my answer. Well, similar, but mine, it's pretty much the same. It's to ensure that they can have a nice celebration. No, you said so everybody can be invited in advance. Same thing. No, it was all down to the weather. Well, what happens if he dies the day before? Then the next monarch has the birthday the following year on the same day. You can still have it the next day. Why not exactly? Because everybody would have been invited anyway and it's the same day. A lot of people trying to pick holes in my argument by saying that the. The official day is the day of the coronation being commemorated. But that's hogwash as well. Everyone knows it was Governor Arthur Phillip who invented this in 1788. But it's like you and me. We plan a barbecue during second Monday in June. It is, isn't it? It doesn't matter what Monday it is. It's normally June or July because. No, it's the second Monday. It's the second Monday in June, I think always it is at the moment, yeah, it has been since. Oh, I don't know. I'm getting confused. I'm going to give you the round of applause. Thank you very much indeed. You're very welcome. Michael's in Sidcart. Michael. Question or answer? It's an answer. Come on, then. So, the signal speed. The signal he's sending from his computer is going to be an electrical signal which travels at close to the speed of light. The signal back to his phone is going to be electromagnetic, which travels at the speed of light, which is 186,000 miles a second. So, qualification, I've forgotten all about qualifications is. What are your qualifications? Well, nothing much to do with science, that's all. How do you know this? Where did you pick up this nugget of knowledge? Just from. From reading. Watching educational videos on. On YouTube. Educational videos. I remember those. I didn't have much in them about the speed of light, though. Michael. You can find lots of stuff on the Internet. Lots of, you know, videos, etc, etc. I'm watching some educational videos. Dad. Of course you are. A round of applause. Anyway, I hope this is educated. A lovely answer. 186, I think, 66% of the speed of light for the electrical impulse. But I could be wrong. Warren's in. Mason. Warren, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Come on, Warren. Right, now then, Lolly. What's the full name for a lolly? Lolly pop. Pop. Right. Ice cream. Ice. I. Ice cream. Pop. Eye. Popeye. Lollipop and ice cream makes popeye. You're good, man. But that's beautiful. That's a thing of. That is a thing of beauty that has made a particularly rubbish mystery hour worthwhile. That one answer. Get in. There you go. Lollipop ice cream. Lollipop ice cream. Can I have a lollipop ice cream, please? And then it becomes a popeye. And the reason I know that is because I'm really tight, so I always have a popeye because you get two for one in my eyes. Get the lollipop, your ice cream. Well, that's why I won't buy the kids one, because, you know, all these conversations we have about obesity and health and stuff, they can have one or the other. They can't have both in one pop. Exactly. Popeye, get in there. Everyone should be having it. Hang on, we've got. No, we've got stewards inquiry. Warren, I'm just going to withhold your round of applause while we hear from Adam in Paddington. Adam. What would you like to say, james? All right, I think I've got an answer for the Popeye ice cream. Yeah. Gone. Um. We used to get them and our ice cream man used to say, mind your eye on the stick. Yeah. Of the lollipop. So you think it might have been called a popeye in case it pops your actual eye? Yeah. But some people call it an eye popper or a popeye. It's a better James, is it, Warren? Are you sure? I'm not. I'm sure. You saw the size of my belly. You know how many popeyes I've had. It's not really a qualification to on the derivation of the phrase. I quite like Adam's argument, because if you see a kid eating one with the stick poking upwards, it could have your eye out. James, you are my favorite presenter, I tell you, on this radio station. Yeah, all right. There's no point playing top trumps because I'm probably Adam's favorite as well. Adam, quick. Yeah. It's all obvious. No, you are. Of course you are. You have the lolly. I'll have the ice cream. Let's go off. So it could be both. Because the thing about is folklore, isn't it? It's evolved over the years. No one will be 100% certain on how it started. That could have your eye out. Or it's lollipop ice cream. I'm gonna. Yeah, I'm gonna. Boys. Are you both all right splitting it? Yeah. Go on, then. Nice question, that. Nice answers. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you want to join in. What else still needs an answer? We've done that. We've done just the chickens, isn't it? Are we all right with the chickens? Dan's in Guilford. Dan, question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on. Right. At Christmas, I caught pneumonia quite badly. I'm sorry to hear that. I nearly died of it. And I was in intensive care for four days and I was put on antibiotics. A quite intensive course. Yeah. And ever since I've been on those antibiotics and I finished the course, my sweat has smelled distinctly different. Bad or good? Well, luckily good. Okay. Kind of sweet smell. Yeah. Sorry, that's my daughter screaming. I. Don't apologize. It's a recognized effect of antibiotics. When did the round finish? When did the course finish? Oh, I mean, I was only on it for two weeks, and to be honest, it was a lot more strong at the time. But I thought when I. When I came off. So is that. Is there a. Is there. Is there a recognized link between body odour and antibiotics? Yeah. Does it. And also, is it permanent? Because I was expecting it to go back to normal afterwards, but it didn't. And other people agree with you on this? Well, this is the thing, see, my wife sort of is, but my friend at work just thinks it just smells like Bo, so the other exposes it. Does my sweat change? Was my sense of smell change. But does your wife recognize that your sweat has changed or not, or she kind of just didn't? Because it sounds to me, the way you describe that, that she was just sort of humoring you, Dan. I've got to be honest, she was sort of going, yeah, all right, darling. Yeah, that's right. Your body. Well, to be. At the time when I was on them, she said definitely, it was a lot stronger. Oh, mate, I wish you'd gone earlier. This is. I wish we'd start. Why couldn't we start with this instead of that nonsense about bird tables? You know, I wasn't sure if this was going to be interesting enough. No, this is fascinating, especially if it's true. Well, I'm sure it's weird because it's definitely permanent, whatever's happened, and I can't think why. Well, we've got a minute. Phone lines are ringing off the hook, but I'm just going to only want to talk to people about antibiotics and pneumonia. All right? So if we can get an answer to that in the next 30 seconds, I'll be delighted. Dell's in Weybridge. Dell, question or answer? Answer, James. Go on, Del, make it seem it's not about the antibiotics. Don't worry, don't worry. It's about chickens. It must be quick. Yeah, it's about the chickens. Are you an expert? I'm not, but my stepfather is. But a lot of the common birds that people are having domestically in Britain lately are sort of utility birds that are meant to hatch, hatch eggs most of the year round, whereas a lot of hobbyists get other breeds which, you know, don't grow eggs all year round. So it's not really chickens that lay eggs all year round. I don't think his statement was really correct in the first place. Round of applause. We could be here all day. Have we got anything on the antibiotics and the pneumonia? But the man smells, the man smells. His very essence has changed and he's asked us to tell him why. Oh, I'm sorry about that. We might get back to it next week. That's it from me for another day. We'll be doing it again tomorrow morning. From ten I remain James O'Brien. This is LBC. And here is Beverly Turner.