what is a brownie in motion? - 15 Jan 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC. Text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC four minutes after twelve. And this is the only hour of radio in the world that comes with a cast iron guarantee of increasing your knowledge. Now, I may not increase your knowledge with knowledge that you actually want or end up grateful for. It may in fact, be end up knowledge that you end up. You will end up with knowledge that you end up cursing me for putting in your brain in the first place. But that is in the terms and conditions, the guarantee. The promise is this. Listen to this program until 01:00 today and you will know more than you do now. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you already know how it works, and a quick recap and explanation is on the way. For those of you who don't know how it works, and this is how it works, there is probably bubbling away in the back of your brain a question that needs an answer, a question that you know has an answer, but a question that you haven't been able to find an answer to. It seems a strange exercise in a world of search engines and instant gratification. But you'll have to trust me if you're new to this when I tell you that it works quite spectacularly well. I don't know why. There's something about going on a journey together to find stuff out that just seems to engage us, isn't there? And although some of the questions you will hear asked possibly could be answered with resort to Google, you're not allowed to. You hear someone else ask a question and someone else rings in with an answer because they know, because they've learned, because they've got not. It's a celebration. This is the pompous bit should come with a little warning. It's a celebration of knowledge, elucidation, illumination and education. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call if you've got a question that needs an answer, a who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a weather, a whither or even a whence. And if you're listening and you hear someone else ask a question, you have to ring in with the answer. And then I'll ask you what your qualifications are. And if you're wondering what sort of parameters there are for qualifications, it can be anything from I am the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Right through to. I saw it on telly last night. James, it just needs to be a simple line on why you know, what you have told us that you know. Okay, all clear. What questions won't we take? Very simply, boring ones and repetitive ones. The management's decision is final on whether they're dull or not. So if you are, depending on who answers the phone, either politely invited to move along or rather robustly instructed to hang up, please obey. Please obey. And by repetition again, management's decision is final. If we can remember the answer to the question, and we've dealt with it relatively recently, then we'll probably not do it again. I think we covered everything. Are we up? We're running. Should we do it? David Potter's bar. You can kick us off this week. What would you like to know? Morning, James. Hi. Why is New York also known as the Big Apple? I asked loads of people. No one seems to know I know this. I don't know whether it was because we've done it before or whether it's just stuck in the back of my brain somewhere. It was a big, big advertising campaign in the 1970s by the sort of New York tourist authority. They used it, and then there's been research into it subsequent to that to find out whether the advertising bloke invented it. And I think there was a sports writer in the 1920s who used to describe it as the Big Apple. And if you go right back to source, then there was a line in an economic book that said something about the Big Apple getting more of the nutrients from the tree or something like that when writing about New York status in american geography. And that would have been pre 1920s. We must have had this before. There's no way. I learned that at school. I was studying medieval history most of the time. So that is the big apple sauce for you, David. Thanks very much. I guess you get the round of applause then. I guess you're right. Fun of the week as well. Courtney's in Geelong. Is it Geelong or Geelong in Australia? Geelong. Geelong. Sorry. Crikey. You're a long way away. What would you like? Question or answer? Legit. Courtney. It's a question. Carry on. I was wondering why thumbs up means everything is good. I like that. I like that. How long have we had you on board as a listener in Geelong? Ever since the podcast came out, I guess. Are you serious? Fantastic. Fantastic. Well, again, I don't want it to turn into one of those weeks where I have a crack at everything. But didn't it start with roman emperors? I have no idea. So you remember, you've seen gladiator, haven't you? It's got Russell Crowe in it. He's practically australian. You remember when they. When the gladiators got the sword over his enemy and they look at the emperor and if he puts his thumb up, the. The guy lives and if he puts his thumb down, the guy dies? Really? You're not. You've not seen gladiator? I haven't. You haven't seen gladiator? I thought it was compulsory in Australia, that is. Well, that's the earliest example I can think of whether or so that would then translate into, well, hey, good news, I'm allowed to live, or, oh, no, bad news, I'm about to have my head chopped off with a trident. Can we still put on the board? I'll get out of here. How can that not be right? I'll put it. I'll put it half on the board. Do you want to say hello to anyone in Britain while you're on the line, Courtney? I'll say hello to my father. His name's Alan Gill. Fantastic. Is it he that got you into LBC? Is it he that put you onto a mystery out? Yeah, he did. We got a lot of time for him. I'm going to leave the question on the board, but only out of politeness because I'm pretty confident I've. Now, what else could the thumbs up. It was all back to an australian who's never seen Gladiator. Martin's in wood green. Martin, question or answer? Question. Yes, and this isn't my actual question, but can I say hello to someone? Oh, no. What have I done? Yeah, you've started it now. No, I can't let you, mate. No, you know, only if you ring from geelong. All right. If you go. Go to Australia and we'll check the dial code. Ring me back and then you can say hello to whoever you want. All right. Well, I realize it's only January, but this is question of the year. Does putting your hand to your forehead squint in your eyes and put in a stupid face make you see any further? That's not a proper mystery. You can just go and try yourself. I am, but I'm not sure whether it actually helps or not, so I want to know if there's any scientific proof. The tunnel effect that you create probably does provide a greater degree of focus, but you want to hear it from an eye expert. Yeah, the geezer that always calls up Professor Howe. Let's see if he's you might know. Although he's more of a chemist than a biologist. But someone might know. Someone might know. I like that. Yeah. I mean, maybe all the callers can start doing it. Maybe. Yeah, maybe. I'll run the show, Martin. Right. And you'll get back in your box. Okay, I'll do that. Who did you want to say hello to? Steve Porter and Marilyn McLeod just snorted. Donna's in Welling in Hertfordshire. Donna, question or answer? I've got a question. Yes. We were out on a party boat on the Thames on Sunday, and we went past Cleopatra's needle and we looked it up on our phones and found out that it's three and a half thousand years old. Oh, yeah. My husband said to me, I wonder if that's the oldest thing in London. In fact, I wonder if it's older than London. So is it the oldest thing in London? Apart from Steve Allen? Apart from Steve Allen, he is a national treasure. You're very right. It's on the embankment, isn't it? Cleopatra's name. Three and a half thousand years old. Well, no, London predates that. As in the beaker. People who lived on the banks of the Thames would have been. But in terms of stuff that's still here. Yeah. And you. Don't you mean something man made? Because obviously the river thames is older than. Well, yeah, I mean, yeah, you can't count that, really. I don't know. It's a really good question. Three and a half thousand years old. Imported from. From Egypt, obviously. And then stuff. Nothing to do with Cleopatra, has it? Not three dates. Cleopatra. All right. Showing off now. Well, I can't show off that much because I can't remember the pharaoh who. Who was, should we say, on the throne when it was made? Is Cleopatra's needle older than. Is the oldest man made item in London, or indeed in Stonehenge is not in London, is it? No, it's not. Point. Good point, donna, do you want to know something funny? Go on. I got told a story the other day about one of those party boats on the Thames. And were you just at a normal party, or was it a stag night or a hen night or something like that? It was. It was actually an afternoon do for a friend. 50th. Oh, lovely. What a lovely, civilized way of passing an afternoon. Imagine being as a mate of mine was. And I know the groom as well, actually. The third wedding. The third wedding of someone, and they're all wearing masks of the groom, and they go to the bar on a party boat. They haven't hired the whole thing out. But that's where they're doing part of the. Of the stag. And as they're queuing up at the bar, one the guests, one of the stags realizes that the girl in front of them in the queue at the bar is the second wife of the groom, and they're stuck on a boat. They can't. It's not like they can just sort of go to a different bar, because the cruise lasts for quite a long time. You don't stop off, do you? No. Hours was 3 hours. 3 hours. You see quite a small boat as well. Only so many places you can go. And the second wife is there, and everyone else has got a mask on of the exile. I'm glad you laughed at that. I wasn't sure it was an appropriate time to tell the story. Donna, we'll get you an answer. Is Cleopatra's needle the old man made thing in London? I mean, you've got the London Museum, you know, I was there relatively recently. There's got to be some pretty old. I can't keep saying pretty old stuff. I think we need someone with a little more knowledge. Craig is in Peterborough. Question or answer? Craig. Hi, James. It's a question, please. Yes. Okay. 2015 is the year that the DeLorean time travel to and back to the future. Yes. And I'm just wondering whether the speed of 88 miles an hour has any significant scientific. So, is the speed of 88 miles an hour in any way relevant to the ability to travel in time? Yes. No, because you can't travel in time? No. Is it just an arbitrary speed they picked out? Probably because it looked nicest on the nicest on the old fashioned digital printer. Every single bit of it would have been lit up. Yeah. I don't know. All right. You know what happens, Craig? I don't know how long you've been listening to mystery out. The more I sort of poke, the more I've. Well, then you will know. The more I poke fun at a question, as I've just poked fun at yours, the more likely it is that in the next ten minutes, someone rings in with proper knowledge to make me feel stupid. So I will leave it on the board. But as it stands, I don't think there's any scientific significance to the fact that Doc. Is it Doc Brown. Doc Brown's DeLorean was travelling at 88 miles an hour when the flux capacitor kicked in and transferred him back to Valley Valley. Spring Valley. Spring Valley, Dave. Oh, I've remembered by the tie. Hill Valley. Thank you very much in the 1950s. It's 12:15 this is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 19 minutes after twelve. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where if you follow Twitter. If you're on Twitter, the decision of the pub landlord to run for parliament in south Thanet has caused, I think, even more hilarity than anybody could have dared predict. The possibility that people stupid enough to believe that closing the Channel tunnel is a real policy to stop immigration could be tempted to vote for Al Murray instead of for Ukip is causing astonishing outrage in some circles. There's one indeed, that even includes me. I may read that to you in a moment. But first, back to mystery. Al, I've completely forgotten what questions we've already got on the, on the board, but I'm sure, I'm, I'm sure. 88 miles an hour. Does it have any scientific significance in the context of back to the future, the thumbs up and down for the gladiators? Because a young lady in Geelong. Geelong in Australia, didn't believe me when I explained to her the thumbs up and down. Thumbs up was a good thing. Takes its way back to the coliseum. But she wants to hear it from someone else, someone who sounds more intelligent than I do. What other questions did we have? What was the silly. Oh, yeah. Covering your eyes, squinting. Does it actually have a physiological improvement upon your, or a biological improvement upon your eyesight? And there's a few others as well. Graham's in Bradford. Question or answer? Graham? Question, James. Yes. As the vikings were pagans, why did they have a cross painted on the shields? Does the symbol of the cross predate Christianity? Are we sure that they had a cross painted on their shields? I think so, yeah. And then I've just seen some montages, you know, historical recreations. I've been at the Jorvik center. Oh, I like seeing the films, you know, they even got smells at the Jorvik center, haven't they? When you. Does the cross predate Christianity as a symbol of something? It probably does, but whether or not the. And at the Jorvik center, did they have crosses on the shields? They do, yes. Why would. And you. They were pagans. Even though this happened ad, happened after they were pagans. But the ones that settled in Yorkshire, I think they converted to Christianity eventually. But you sure it was painted on? It wasn't the way it was sort of bolted together? Well, they had like a central bolt in the middle. But they had definitely had a cross painted on there. Yeah. All right. You're on. I like this. So why did the vikings have a cross on their shields? Sounds like the first line of a joke. That. All right, maybe not a very funny joke. Graham, I'll see what I can do for you. Take care. Natasha is an actor. Natasha, question or answer? Answer. James. Splendid. It's about the thumbs up thing. Yes. And so you're right that it dates back to the coliseum, but it's at. Yeah, that part is right, but it's actually a myth. That sums up. Meant that you got to live and thumbs down meant that you were to die. It was actually the opposite of that. What. What the emperor would do is if he kept his thumb up, you had to stay and continue to fight or be eaten by a lion or something. And if he put his thumb down, it meant you got to go back down to the gallows and to live another day. Because we kind of naturally associate up with being benign and heavenly and all of that, over time, it's become inverted. So it began in the coliseum, but not for the reasons that I suggested. What are your qualifications? How come you know so much about this? Are you a secret? Are you a weekend gladiator? No, I was at uni when the film gladiator came out and my friend who was studying history told me, and it was so that I remembered for 15 years. Perfectly done. Round of applause for Natasha and that answer. Wings it all wings its way, all the way to Geelong in Australia. And we're happy to. Happy to oblige. International mystery Professor Martin Smith is on the line from Manor Park. Professor Smith is the professor of robotics at Middlesex University. Which question caught your eye this week? Professor? It's the squinting eye question. Oh, splendid. What have you got for me? Yes, it does work. If you make the size of the hole you look through smaller and smaller, you improve the focus because the light coming in, well, you're capturing a narrower and narrower pencil beam of light, and that enables you to focus on closer objects and more distant objects. So that would apply to both squinting and also to shielding your eyes, because when you shield your eyes, you reduce the field of vision as well. Only if you reduce the diameter of the sort of cone of light. So squinting, definitely. But with regard to this, shielding your eyes with your hand on your forehead, that would have more to do with shading it from light. That would be. Yes. Yes. So they both work in a way. Yeah. Yeah. You don't want to be blinded or to sort of overload the sensory cells. I feel that. Was it another Martin? Was it? Wasn't the questioner called Martin as well? Yes, he was. Yes. I think we've gone jewel Martin. We've gone double Martin on his. Martin in Wood Green, Martin in Manor park. Not that many, I wouldn't have thought. I've got an Uncle Martin, but it's not the most common name on the planet. I like that. A double Martin. And a round of applause for the good professor. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's 1224. Bill's in Houston. Bill, question or answer? Question, please, James. Yes. You know if you light a fire. Yeah. You need oxygen for it to burn? You do? Yeah. Right. Well, in space there's nothing, is there? No oxygen, nothing. No one can hear you scream. Right, you're right there. Where does the sun burn? It's not a fire, it's a star. What is it, then? It's a star. Yeah, but it's still. What is it? It's a massive nuclear explosion. Yeah, but it's still a light and it's not a fire, mate. No, you're just going for a round of applause here. James talking. It's not a fire, it's a nuclear explosion. Yeah, but if you went to it, you'd burn, wouldn't you? No, it's nuclear fusion. It's not a fire in the way that you mean. It does not need oxygen to burn. But all fire needs oxygen to burn. That's why I keep telling you it's not a fire. Yeah, I can't say that. All right, here's the thing, right? There's three animals in a row. One is an elephant, one is a cat and one is a dog. Got it? Right. Point at the elephant. I am. Right. That's not a cat or a dog, is it? No. Right. Now, there's three things in a row here. One is a sun, one is a moon and one is a fire. Point at a fire. Yeah. I'm pointing at the fire. That's not a moon, is it? That's not a moon. I just can't believe this. It's a nuclear explosion. All right, I'll get you another, professor, this is getting ridiculous now. I deserve the coliseum round of applause and I deserve this one. But you'll play silly beggars. The things you do are a round of applause. I don't know, I might run for parliament. Seems to be getting a lot of laughs today. It's 1226 Sam's in Liverpool. Sam, question or answer? I have a question, James. Bring it on. Well, I was wondering, why slugs and snails on the land die if you put salt on them. Because there's slugs in the sea. There's sea slugs and they live and they're surrounded by salt as well. Well, they're different. Great. I mean, the one in the. In the. In the sea, they're just different species. You might as well say, how come fish can breathe underwater and humans can't? So I think the sea slug is a bit of a red herring. Why does the floods on the land die when the soul. Are you better? You. Are you. Do you live in Liverpool or you're just passing through? I'm a student in Liverpool. So how long have you. How long have you been listening to Mistria? I listen to the podcast all the time. Before. Before you went to Liverpool or just relatively recently? I've been there two years, so I picked it up. Are you familiar with the word which in the very earliest days of mystery, was in many ways the reason why we continued with the feature? Possibly you don't remember what that word is? What? No one's flicked that switch for years. Yeah, I think that's the answer. Like, when it had last been on. That was just incredible, I think. Isn't that the answer, though? Well, yeah, but there's a chemical process, salt isn't all the. So sizing into it, is it? Salt sucks all the fluid out of the slug and the slug dies. They like bubbles. You want it bubbles a bit. Does it. Does it melt the slug? It creates an acid. Yeah. So chloride, Nacl. Okay, well, I enjoyed that. It might not be true, but that's what happens when you say the word. It's why we never say it. You turn out to be wrong. You're gonna put me in a very difficult situation here, all right? No, of course you don't. Don't be ridiculous. You haven't done anything. You just find it. And I said osmosis again without warning me. All right, seriously. Well, if you've answered your own question, you don't get a round of applause. Even I'm not that self referential, Sam. You asked me what the word was. Yes, I did. You're right. That's not together. No, let's not do this. Let's not do this. Now. Let's get you an answer to your question, and if it turns out that that word is the correct answer, then yes, I will actually make a judicial review of the original award of the applause. So we are looking for slugs and salt. We are looking for viking crosses on viking shields. We are looking for 88 miles an hour. Does it have scientific significance? And I've been answered this on Twitter and I've made the mistake of retweeting it is Cleopatra's needle, the oldest man made item in London. Time is approaching 12:30 you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery are your weekly opportunity to increase the amount of knowledge that you have unfolds upon a weekly basis. I only say the number if I've got a phone line free. I haven't got one free at the moment, but there's a few to rattle through, glancing at what's coming up. So stay where you are, keep that finger poised over redial and well broaden your intellectual horizons after the very latest news. Where you are mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 26 minutes to one and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. If you're just joining us, you don't. What's going on? Pull up a chair. You'll soon work it out. All good? Professor Hal is here, all the way from Brighton. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Actually, Professor Hal, seeing as you're such a regular fixture, you've reminded me of something. I had a question of my own this week that I was going to put on the board. I shall do that when we've heard your answer. I presume you have an answer for us because you don't need to ring in with questions. You already know everything. No, I don't know everything, James, but the point is, I'm here to back you up well and truly. In terms of the star question or the sun question, the original caller was quite correct that normally when you have a chemical combustion fuel, an oxidant and heat, that's all to do with electrons which orbit the nucleus, being transferred a star is a completely different proposition. It's a nuclear fusion reaction, as you correctly said, where deuterium and tritium are squashed together to form helium, which is why helium was a God of the sun. So they're completely different things. You don't need oxygen, it's all to do with nuclei and not to do with electrons orbiting and it's chalk and cheese. So you were completely correct. I just keep saying that. Keep saying you were completely correct. I love the academic authority that you bring to the observation. Absolutely. I think you should be emeritus Professor O'Brien. I couldn't agree more, actually. This is getting ridiculous. What would the word be, then, to describe it? Just reaction, because I think the caller was confused. About how it could look like a fire, burn like a fire, feel like a fire, but not be a fire. Right. A fire is a chemical reaction and it's a nuclear reaction and chemical reactions, electrons, which orbit atoms, and nuclear reactions do with nuclei, which are in the center of atoms and they're completely different. And there the twain shall meet. Do you want to split the round of applause? Actually, you have it on me this week. Are you serious? You've been so generous in the past. I feel I want to. Cheers. How. There you go. You see, what goes around comes around. Kids. Jack's in working. Jack. Question or answer? Answer. Bring it on. It's about the viking shields. Oh, yes. Why would they have a cross on them if they were pagans? The cross on the viking shields was one of two things. Depending on when it was, they would use the cross to link their other symbols between them, which is then, if you understand. So if they had a line on the top, an axe on the bottom, it would combine them all together, so it would make it look like a four way insignia rather than just random sort of stickers on a shield. Yeah, all right, I get that. So it's a geometric decision rather than a religious one. Yeah. And the other one that they have from a long time ago, depending on when you're looking at it, is also there's a cross on there, which means the four corners of the earth, which is to protect them from spells, from the God. I think it's mesopotamian. Something like that is qualifications. Not a lot, carpenter. No. How do you know this, you prune? I actually just been on the series coach trip with Brendan and we went over to Scandinavia in the series and the guy told us in the castle that we were working because it came up in conversation there. Ok. I've asked for qualifications on every mystery ad with every answer for the last few years. That's got to be the strangest yet, hasn't it? How do you know that? I've just been on coach trip with Brendan. You know, the producer of this program thinks that Brendan is an absolute broadcasting genius. He is. He's. Yeah, but then he's the producer of this program. He's got very low standards. Well, he's an international tour guide and he's got a lot of information. And these are. He's actually therefore giving you your answer for people who aren't familiar with Coach Tripp. How would you describe it? Let's just say a lot of people doing a lot of strange things on a coach going around Europe at the same time. Is it as much fun as it looks? It's great. Great. And can you win? You can't get chucked off. What do you get if you're the last one at the end? You get another coach trip. Really? Yeah. Good grief. It's like that old joke. Main thing. Main thing is to just stay on the coach. I wouldn't worry about the prize at the end. And how did you get on second by one vote in the final. Don't be bitter, mate. It's over now. Go. Move on. Go. Move on. Anyway, you've learned. A round of applause. The first place there, by one vote in the final, Rich, is in Eastbourne. Rich, what would you like to say? Questions. These. James. Yes. Basically wins farms and wind turbines. I've heard that they have to be turned off when it gets too windy. Yes. Why? Case they blow away. Defeat the objects. Well, no, it's easy to say that, but actually, it would be a bit like being in a go kart going down a hill. Why are you in that go kart going down a hill? Because you want to go fast, right? And you want to. You want to build up speed, but why have you got a break? Because there comes a point at which you will have built up so much speed. The go kart rattles to pieces, falls apart and crashes. And the same with a wind turbine. It spins and spins and spins and spins, but it can reach a speed at which the spinning is not safe. So it's better to turn it off altogether. But in that sense, the go kart can't benefit from going fast. Well, there's no beneficial value to the go kite itself. Well, there is, because the only reason you've built it and got in it is to go fast down a hill. But the concept, you need to take on board, the concept of going too fast and something speedy will break up. It's like a spaceship. Anything can break up. If the velocity is too high, the friction will create kinetic energy, which contributes to the actual dismantling of the apparatus. And a wind turbine is just another piece of engineering. Do you really think english weather's strong enough to dismantle a wind turbine? Well, mate, listen. That's the answer. So I guess you're gonna get round applause, aren't you? I guess you're right. Sunny's in. Thorough sunny. Question or answer? Answer, please. Bring it on, sonny. It's about the back to the future. The 18 miles tower. Yes. Well, if you take an eight and you flip it sideways becomes the infinity sign. Yeah. And that's why it's used in time travel. Rubbish. It's true. That's not true at all. I might be using it. It's got nothing to do with back to the future. It has qualifications. Just back to the future, Chan. Well, yeah, but who told you that, then? I saw it in a DVD extra. Because I've just been told that the DVD extras make it clear that there's absolutely no significance whatsoever to the 88 miles an hour velocity in the DeLorean sports car just prior to the activation of the flux capacitor and the arrival in Hill Valley. It's definitely in there. Well, they say it's not. I think it is. Well, I think it's not. We could be here a while and we could be. Have we got anyone else on the line on this one, Michael? We got anyone else? No. And we're not going to get a round of applause. Highly unlikely at this stage, mate. I've got a level with you. I've had so many people get in touch saying that I am a real back to the future addict. And the DVD extras? Hang on. Matthew's in caterer. Matthew, what have you got? Hello. Yeah, basically, 88 mph. You've got the sort of the real answer and the fantasy answer. So I'll give you the real one first. Fighting talk. No, you'll like this, mate. You'll like it. So 671 miles/second is the only recognized speed for potential time travel. And Einstein, that's like sort of his theory on time travel. Unless you're traveling at the speed of light or faster. Yes. It can't happen. Yes, but there's sort of your real answer. However, there's sort of the fantasy one in the movies. It's not relevant because there is a scene, as you'll know, where he's floating. And the strike of lightning hits him and he goes back to the west. Yes. He isn't traveling at any speed at that point. So even in the movies, 88 mph isn't actually that relevant for time travel purposes. What about the suggestion that when you turn an eight on its side. It's the symbol for infinity? And that is what the time travel sort of secret code was? Yeah. Keep eating the muesli and knitting jumpers from your armpit hair. I'd say. Yeah. The conclusion is pretty clear, Sonny, in thorough. Well, I thought I was a fan. You're just chancing your arm there. You've never heard this at all, have you? It was your own theory. And you dressed it up. You dressed it up in the cloak of a DVD extra to afford it a patina of credibility that it did not possess on its own. I'm pretty sure I'm gonna have to rewatch them. All right, well, you get back in touch in the meantime, Matthew. Come on. This is for you. This is for you. See you on my tv. Now, Chris said no one likes to show off. Thank you, James. Thank you, Matthew. It's 1243 listening to James O'Brien's mystery out on LBC, where some questions remain on the board. Is Cleopatra's needle the oldest man made item in London? That's the only one I've written down. I've been getting a bit carried away with the excitement and why does salt kill slugs? We think we might know the answer, but it would be good to go a bit medical. Ali's in. Bow. Ali. Question or answer? It's a question, actually. Carry on, Ali. We all obviously know about the greek God atlas and how he is always carrying the earth on his back. And earth seems to be around every time I see a statue of him and it just strikes me that it's a very old God and it's definitely before Christ, obviously. So how did they know the world was around when the whole world thought it was flat? Well, I think you're indulging in a bit of historical sort of relativism here. I mean, certainly there was long periods in european history where they thought the world was flat. But there'll be other myths, creationist myths, that have very different. I think. Isn't there one big religion or one big creationist myth that thinks we're all creatures on the back of a giant animal or something like that? I imagine the answer to your question is the horizon, Ali. Right, I see. Because when people used to believe the earth was flat, they couldn't really account for the fact that a ship would hove into view over the horizon, which proves that there's a curvature to the surface of the earth, whether land or water. So that's probably why the Greeks thought the world was round. Bearing in mind Pythagoras was an ancient greek, the reason they call it the Dark Ages is because a lot of the knowledge and information that had been accrued by humanity prior to the dark ages just got lost for a while after the Romans left Britain. We sort of went backwards, unfortunately. And Pythagoras was doing his work as a geometrist in the years before the birth of Christ. So I'm pretty sure that Aristotle, Pythagoras, Socrates, people like that, and then the ones that were into their math. Euclid and all these kind of characters. I'm pretty sure that they just worked it out. Is that probably why you've got very ancient maps. Before people could fly as well? So another thing that's been bugging me. How did they get it so accurate, all the maps that they had. That you're only allowed one question, which is just as well. I'm taking a round of applause for the last one. Is that all right with you? Yeah, sure. Good man. Thanks. Warren's in Northwood. Hello, Warren. Hello, Miss O'Brien. Question or answer? You get a lot of round of applause today. That's always the way, mate. That's what comes with a brain the size of mind. Exactly. Question. See if you get one for this. Yes. Smells. Pardon? Right. Smells smelly. Yeah. I was cooking last night. I was actually. I was actually baking a gammon and so pork. And I could smell it around the house. Yes. Now, there was no windows open. There was no doors open. And I wasn't walking around fast. No. How does the smell of what you're cooking. Transfer to every single room within the property? I like that. Food smells. Yes. We've got quite a fancy extractor fan. But even that doesn't really make much of a dentist particularly smelly. Fry up or something. There's no wind. No. And there's no vacuum. So how do smells like when you bake a cake. Yes. Someone walks in the house. Your researcher or editor or whatever you call him. Sitting in the office next door. He made a coffee yesterday morning. He could smell it upstairs. Do you know, it's anecdotes like that. That I get to enjoy on a daily basis for it. How does it happen? It's got to be like Torvill and Dean. With the quality of the stories we swap. It's like a match made in them. And there's nothing. There's nothing else like that. And we don't need to be unpleasant or lavatorial. But no other smells pervade the house on quite the same scale as cooking smells do. Even when you've got a sewage issue. If you go up to the second or third floor. If you're lucky enough to have one, you don't. You don't smell the sewage like you do when you're on the ground floor. But bacon or gammon in particular. Other food stuffs. Pancakes. Wow. That's a lovely question. Why do smells cooking smells reach parts that other smells cannot reach? Warren. Great stuff. Thank you. 1247. It's 1252. Do you know, I had my own mystery out question for the first time ever and I forgot to ask it, so I'll ask it next week. I already told you what I was going to do. I want to know why, on the days when I don't have to get out of bed, I don't have an overwhelming desire to have a lion. On the days when I do have to get out of bed, I cannot think of anything better than lying in bed and staying in bed. What is that about? Is it similar to when you get home after? If you walk home instead of. I don't know if. Does it work if you drive home? I hardly ever drive home. I always walk home and you get to the front door and you suddenly need to go to the lavatory. I don't know, some sort of weird sub strata psychology. Anyway, the other thing I meant to tell you about during this hour was a great piece in the Telegraph today about whether or not a lorry carrying birds would weigh less if they were all flying instead of resting on their perches. It's the kind of question that really distills the very essence of mystery hour. If you've got a lorry full of birds, James, and all the birds take off, does the lorry weigh less? Think about it. I'm not answering it. I'm just telling you. It's in the Telegraph today. The power of mystery hour is spreading slowly around the world. Charlie is in seven and oaks. Charlie, question or answer? Question? Carry on. This bugged me for ages. You know when you go into different towns and you see science and they say, welcome to, for example, seven oaks. Yes. And then underneath it, it will say twins with so and so. I have no idea what that means or where it comes from. I'll have a crack at it. I'm fairly confident. I know. Probably gonna make me look stupid. No, not at all. It's. It's. I mean, I'm trying to think of a way of explaining it that doesn't sound as if I'm accusing councillors, elected councillors, of just looking for freebies and jollies all the time, but it's a way of elected councillors getting freebies and jollies. So imagine you and me, Charlie, we were running the council in Kidderminster, right, where I grew up, and we decided, I think Kiddimus has twinned with a. With a town in Germany that used to have a concentration camp in it, unfortunately. So maybe we should use Sevenoaks. Where's seven and oaks twinned with? I have no idea. What do you mean, you've had no idea. It's been bugging you for ages. You can't even remember what's written on the sign. Not particularly that side. So you and me, we are the mayor and the deputy mayor of Sevenoaks. All right, you can be the mayor. I'll sit in the passenger seat for a change. And we decide we want to. We just want to sort of, you know, extend our horizon. So we get in touch with San Tropez or somewhere like that and we go on a fact finding mission and they come back on a fact finding mission and we arrange some sort of exchanges for our students. It's just like, imagine being a town and having a pen pal, right? And also been able to go and visit the pen pal on council expenses. Okay, so, for example, if Sevenoaks was twinned with, I don't know, Sweden, I could go to Sweden for free. Stockholm would be a better example. Stockholm, yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, not. Not just by dint of living in seven Oaks, you'd have to be on the council, right. And you go on a fact finding mission to hang out with the swedish councillors in Stockholm and compare cultural artifacts and have conversations about deepening the relationship between Sweden and Great Britain, or between Stockholm and seven Oaks, more specifically. That's all it is. Councils dreamt it up. Councils enjoy it, councils do it. Ok, that makes sense. Thank you. Thank you very much. Ian is in Red Hill. Ian, question or answer? Oh, it's a answer. Carry on, Ian, your smells around the home and how that works. Convection is the word. So heat. Heat rises. Just imagine you open an oven, what happens? You get a blast of that hot air in your face and it's consistently hot. It's not a passing heat or a cooling heat, because as you are cooking, things are getting hotter and hotter and that's convection. Same way radiators. Same way you heat up a room from a single radiator. Absolutely. Hang on, I'm just going to squeeze in Steve in south Kensington for two reasons. Steve, what would you like to say? Yeah, I would agree with Ian, but I would add in it's a brownian motion, which is when the molecules shake around and. And that's what makes it spread. I can live with that. Ian, can you live with that? I'm speechless. Brownian motion, correct. Yeah. Do you know what the producer wrote on my screen? He wrote, it's a brownie in motion. Three different words. Michael, they're laughing at you, mate. That's terrible. So if you want to stop the smells, if I can add in your kitchen, just reduce the temperature of your home to Kelvin. So the smells. The more heating you've got on, the hotter the house, the more the smells will permeate up the stairs. That's correct. Of course. I'm going to give you both around. I'm going to give you both a round of applause, but could I cautiously suggest that you throw a small part of it towards Michael for making you chuckle so much? I will do. Thank you. There we go. It's a brownie in motion. It's like. It's like a scout jamboree or a disco at the Cubs. It's 1257. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Let's go, Steve Blackfriars. 1 minute left. What's it going to be? Question or answer? Answer. My. Cleopatra's needle. Yeah. Gone by far the oldest thing. Rubbish. Nothing. Nothing to do with Cleopatra at all. No. Yeah, but it's only how. It's nowhere. How old is it? It's about 1500 years BC. Yeah, that's. That's more than that. That's peanuts. No, not as actual structure. Like a structure in London. Oh, structure, structure, structure. I'll give you structure. But we said man made item. Man made. It's the oldest man made item. No, it's not. There is the old duvet stone chopping tool from the old duvet Gorge in Tanzania. Currently resident in the British Museum and estimated to be between 1.8 and 2 million years old. And that is a round of applause coming over the horizon. That's unknown. What? That's unknown, not permanent. How do you know that song? Loan. Of course. It's on loan to the British Museum. It's not. They own it. Or. What do you think the Greeks are getting the knickers in a twist about the loan of the Elgin marbles? No, I'm having it. Round of applause. We're out of time. No, we're just squeezing on in. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. I'm James O'Brien. This is LBC. The next voice you'll hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty.