How does the The Royal Mint decide how much money to print?

James O'Brien. Ten till one weekdays on LBC. Let's get mystery out proper up and running. Now. Deborah is in Swanscomb. Deborah, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Deborah. A certain well known brand of wine guns. I don't have to do this. This is so you can say what you want. This is my show, maynards. There you go. Other wine gums are available. Yes. And from when I was little and growing up, they actually had names of drink on them. And it did. They're not anymore. But why? And how did that come about, having them with wine gum? I mean, was there any. Back in the day? Yeah, probably there was. Back in the day, they would have had a bit of wine in them because I used to eat them, specifically thinking, oh, I'm having drink. But, you know, you can sell them to children. Even in my days, though. I mean, when were you. But can I ask when you were born? Or would that be 1960? 1960. I presume you'd be going back to before the second world war to actually have booze in. But I don't know. Actually, I might be talking out of my hat, as usual. Deborah, there could be no relationship with actual alcohol at all. But I shall put you on the car. I like that idea. They didn't have gin. Where did it come from? You know, and why? Whether it had, I don't believe it's ever had alcohol in it. Because they were. I think it has. No, no, but that's. We only. We've only got the 1960 starting point for that. I can't. I mean, Occam's razor would suggest that they must have had some sort of wine in there. I mean, don't forget that there used to be cocaine in Coca Cola. Times have changed, Deborah. So the idea that there was once some wine in wine gums is a lot easier to understand than the notion that they used to be actual cocaine in Coca Cola. Yeah, in it. Yeah. It's just a little bit confusing. Well, I shall unconfuse you. That's what I'm here for. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. I'm rather partial to a wine gum even now. Are you? Oh, I didn't hear that bit. Sorry, I was doing my I'm rather partial to a wine gum voice. Are you still. I like wine gum, but the flavor that I like most, they only normally have two or three of them. Which one's that? The black ones. And it's the same with any sweet. No, it's not the same with any sweet. I'll have you know that with Haribo jelly babies, the nicest one is the very pale, almost translucent one. Oh, really? Yep, really. I don't really eat Haribo, but I'll give it a go. Should then check out that pale, almost translucent jelly baby debt. It'll change your life. It's twelve minutes after twelve. Alfie and Gabrielle, two people on the same phone, are in Brighton. Hello, question. I'm all good. This is rather nice. I like this question, or answer it is a question for you. Carry on. Ad running on LBC at the moment and it says, be sure to get your flu jab. It's an NHS ad. Be sure to get your flu jab while it's wintertime. The cold's more likely to make you catch an illness. But we were just wondering why flu season is winter? Because there are things, you know, like. Because it's the virus that you catch the cold. Yes. Why isn't summer flu season? Why are we not getting flu jabs all the time? Yeah, well, it must be something to do with the temperature, mustn't it? But you want to know a little bit more than that. Like, surely, like viruses and flu grew in warm water. Well, that's what you'd think, but they're probably not true of all of them. But no, you're right. Why? Why is. Why is flu a winter thing and not a summer thing? Or could it be that if the weather's cold and the heating's not on and you get flu, it's more dangerous than it is in summer? Do you see what I mean? Yeah, maybe. Did you argue over who was going to make the phone call and then decide that you do it both together with one of you on the extension. I was scared. I thought the question was scared. So Alfie's just here to offer you moral support and now you're thinking, I didn't really need him at all. I could have done this on my own. God bless you both. Alfie, Gabrielle. Why is flu a winter thing when most of our low level observations would suggest it should be at least as prevalent, if not more prevalent, in summer? So why are flu jabs a winter thing? Perhaps becomes the more pertinent inquiry. Thanks, folks, Michael's in Tunbridge Wells. Michael, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. No, that phone, I can't do it. Sorry, I don't know what that is, but that clicking, it's like fingernails down a blackboard. Well, can we try and sort that out? It's absolutely gone. I don't know why. Sometimes things just get into your ear. Patrick is in Bournemouth. Patrick, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. Question. Hello, Patrick. How are you? If there's an old saying gentlemen prefer. Yes, I have. The opposite sign is women prefer their men tall, dark and handsome. Are those signs true? If so, why? Well, I don't. I mean, is that a proper question? Well, it's. I just asked it. I guess it is, but, I mean, how many men would have to prefer blondes for your question to become correct? Do you see what I mean? I don't prefer blondes, particularly. They even made a movie called. I know they did, but it doesn't. I mean, how does it become testable? We'd have to ask every man in the world. And ask any hairdresser or chemist. They sell loads and loads of blonde bottle blonde for women. But they don't sell any for women, for men, do they? No. I'll ask the question. So you want me to ask, do gentlemen prefer blondes? Yeah. And do women prefer their men dark? Well, you're only allowed one question. No, it's the same question. But it isn't, is it? It's the same question. It's not the same question. It's the same question. Not the same question. Can it be the same question? One question is about gentlemen and the other question is about women. It cannot be the same question. The question is, why are they opposite? What? Well, that's three questions. Oh, my God. I thought you were the corner of the century. It's only because you keep tugging away at my loose threads, Patrick. Okay, then I'll ask one question. Do gentlemen prefer blondes? And then next week. That's not a question. Okay, next week. Do not ring in to ask whether women prefer their mental dark and handsome. That's an order. Oh, you got a. You don't like dark men going with white women? Oh, now, you've been a bit silly, but I shall leave that because I've tempted. I found your achilles heel. Yeah, you've done it. Bye bye, Patrick. Well, that escalated, didn't it? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Bit of a jungle remix, that of the usual jingles on the program. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we want to know whether or not wine gums ever contained wine. And we may ask whether there's any truth in the old adage that gentlemen prefer blondes. But the fellow who asked it went a bit weird at the end. There. So Wayne and Basildon is amused, at least, that you'd have to be a very, very close follower of the program to completely understand. Roger is in King's Cross. Question or answer, Roger? Answer, my friend. Carry on, Roger. What is it, Maynard? Yes. Wine gums. Sorry? Maynard's wine gums were started in Stamford Hill. I'm pretty sure it was a jewish guy, and his dad wasn't happy that he had put it as wine, and they never had any wine in. And he never spoke to his dad after, after the. Basically him telling his dad that basically he was producing these sweets called wine gums because his dad was religious and didn't. So did they have wine in them? No, never. But his dad didn't like the way that he'd suggested that they might have wine in them. Is that. Is there prohibition of alcohol in Judaism? I didn't know that. Just ignorance. I'm not sure you know that. Well, I'm not sure. Roger, come here a minute. I like you and I'm very glad you've rung in, but I am not at this moment, overcome with confidence in the quality of your answer. No. Okay. Thank you for taking it in such a gentlemanly fashion. But, I mean, for example, where are to say to you, what are your qualifications for answering this question? What would you then say to me? I would say that I live in the area where Maynards was first started, which is something new. I live in the area where Fuller's beer was first started, but it doesn't give me any claim to expertise upon the production of beer. Okay, well, you know, I've said my beer, I've tried, and now you're making me feel bad, but I'm trying to. I'm trying to part with it with a flavor of banter rather than you going away feeling dismissed. Do you see what I mean? I'll get you, my friend. Well, thank you, my friend. If you're right, I shall give you two rounds of applause, but I can't take your answer if your qualifications are that you just live somewhere. Well, I don't want to say that horrible word is that I researched it basically a few months back. It was this year pretty much, and I was shocked that it said that it was started in Stanford Hill, which is where I live and grew up in that area. You might be right. You might be right. So you genuinely looked it up? I genuinely looked it up because I was. I heard from a friend that, that it was started in Manor Road in Stamford Hill. Oh, no, no, no. Now you're doing it. You see, this is what I'm so good at, teasing out the quality from my callers who start off a little bit nervous or confused. So now you're naming streets. I'm pretty sure I'm right, you know, I'm not going to say I'm 100%, but I'm pretty sure that I'm right, you know. But, James, I listen to you every day near enough, and, mate, you've done it. No, you're over the line. You're over the line because, I mean, your qualifications are solid, you've researched it, that's all you need to say, and that gets you. He's right. There was never any wine in wine gum. Well played, Roger. Great work, mate. Love it. Love it. You see, a lesson to us all. You never know where that research may pay off. A few years down the line. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Why do we do flu jabs in winter and not in summer? And do gentlemen prefer blondes? Fahim is in Wakefield. Fahim, question or answer for the flu vaccine. Why are we doing the winter? So, I'm a doctor calling from West Yorkshire, essentially, it's not really known why the incidence of the flu virus increases round about the wintertime. It's thought to be that actually, in the cold weather, the flu virus and viruses survive better in the climate. In humid temperatures, the droplets in the air can actually fall to the ground, making kind of the transmission of the flu and kind of coughs and colds less. So what we do know is that the incidence of the flu virus and such viruses increase around the winter time. The World Health Organization actually gets together around February March time every year. And the public health data from various countries is pulled together to look at the strains of the flu virus for the previous year. What they do is they get together and they decide which strains of the flu virus should be kind of put in the vaccines for the following year. It only takes six to eight months for the vaccine to be produced. They're then given from the start of October to December time. Certain kind of groups are at high risk of getting the flu virus, as opposed to other groups. It's not really known why people get. Mate, you've already. You're already over the line. You can stop now if you want. So it is. It is simply the case. You're more likely to catch it in winter. And you've told us why. You've told us why. We don't really know why. You're more like casual winter. And the virus. The virus vaccination takes six to eight months to produce and they get together in February, March. Time to decide that. Fantastic qualifications. I'm a doctor, trust me. Yeah. Round of applause for heme. Can I also let you know one thing? Of course you can, mate. I think I listened to you too much because the other day I had a dream. You were in my dream the other day? Oh, no. Very, very odd. Yes. I was having a picnic with James O'Brien. What was on the menu? I have no idea. You were drinking wine. I can't drink wine because I'm Muslim. I think I was eating sandwich. I have no idea what we were talking about. But that's all I remember, is waking up thinking, listen to you far too much. Yes, well, it's impossible to listen to me far too much. It's rather nice. I like that idea. Lovely little picnic. Oddly enough, when I was talking in the first hour about my second hour of the program, about my fondness for agricultural shows, the last one I went to was near Wakefield. I'm turning into Alan Partridge now, so everyone can laugh, but are you a fan of agricultural shows? For him? Not really. Oh, all right. We were getting on so well, I thought this was the beginning of a beautiful friendship. I thought we could go to an agricultural show, check out some chickens and then go for that picnic you dreamt about. It's 25 minutes after twelve down. Daniel's in Swindon. Daniel, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, mate. So, medicine. Oh, Fahim's just gone. Doctor Fahim was on the line a minute ago. We could have asked him, but here we go. We are where we are. I know. So I take a tablet form of medicine and on the packaging it says, do not crush, take hold. My question is, why? What benefit does it have when it. When it goes into the stomach and obviously dissolves? Why can't we crush our medicine? Why are you thinking of the stomach and not the mouth? Well, I mean, it's in the body. Yeah, but I presume. And I'm not going to. Don't think I'm going to take the round of applause for this one. I'll let you decide because I think it's obvious. So you've done this with my traffic light question a couple of weeks. You should have been prepared for it, man. You should have been prepared for it. I think it's obvious. I think that it's obviously got a coating on it which makes it palatable. And if you crush it, then the very, very pungent flavor of the. Whatever is beneath the coating is going to taste absolutely foul. So if you actually want to get it down your neck, you need to swallow it whole. If you give it a crunch, man, you're in trouble. I'll leave up to Steve. Are you serious? Yeah. So you think it could have something to do with slow release in your gut? I think so, yeah. Because you do get. I've had tablets before that that are specified as slow relief sort of medicines. So you'd probably put them in a capsule, though, wouldn't you? I think a tablet. All right, I'll leave it on the board. Why are you told not to crush your table? Why is Daniel not allowed to crush his tablets? We've got figures of speech coming out of our ears this morning, showing your chickens crushing your tablets. Phil's in Ibiza. Phil. Question. What are you doing in Ibiza? I live here, James. Oh, shut up. Living the dream. Well, until the. The end of March, anyway. Well. Oh, lord. Are you worried? I mean, is it still a bit up in the air? I'd rather stay here. I'm sure you would. Are you in the north of the island? I'm just behind Pasha. Oh, man. Which is. Yeah. Nice side. You're old school, then. Yeah. Strictly. Strictly. Question or answer? Question or answer? It's a question. Did you know that I actually bought hundreds of thousands of bottles of coconut? Replaced the cocaine? I have heard of that, but I'm sure it was in the original recipe as well, back at the end of the 19th century. Willy Wonka, behave yourself. Yeah. Question is, how do the royal mints know how much money to make every day? They just replace them when it goes out of circulation. Or they. You know, they're quantitative easing. Without telling anyone. I mean, how do they know how much money goes out of circulation? My question for the day. That's a really nice question. I like it a lot. I shall find out for you if I can. How does the Roman know how to make. How much money to make on any given day? Good work, Phil. Mind how you go. I hope everything shakes down all right by the end of March. Stay tuned to this radio program to keep up to date with the very latest developments in that debacle. Scott is in Brentford. Scott. Question or answer? Yes, James, is a question, and I've been on before, and I hope this question choose. What better than the last? What was the last one? Well, I've gone three times, but that was when you weren't as nice as you are now and you just rinsed me straight away. What was the question? The question was hair colors. How comes we have ginger and blonde rather than orange and yellow and all the rest are, you know, brown, black and stuff. Yeah. That wasn't quite as bad as it sounded at the time, actually, I think I owe you an apology. That was a while ago. Yeah. I can't really remember it, but I used to be. I used to be on a much shorter fuse than I am now, Scott. I'm a much more mellow individual now than I was. You'll get a round of applause for this one, though, mate. What have we got? Can you have this one right, on a stapler? Yeah. Press the stapler down. Just a regular stapler. You press the stapler down at the bottom, it's got the little silver pad where the staples go into and, you know, clench the paper. They've got two different settings on there. One you press down and it pushes the staples outwards. And one, it kind of binds them inwards. The plate underneath when you turn the plate over. Yeah. Well, you push it up, then you spin it around, and then it does the two different settings. Yeah. What's the other one for? We've all used the one that. Yeah, the little one that pushes them inwards and the one that pushes them outwards. What's that for? Don't know, mate. No, no. You get caught on one of them, it does your finger in. Don't know why they had that one there. I don't know that one. I shall find out for you, actually. I mean, you'd think it would be for really large amounts of documents or. No, because I was thinking that. Because he seems to make it thinner. I was thinking maybe for going through, like, if you was. If you clamp documents and it was going through sort of like a filing thing, but then you wouldn't clamp them together, would you? Say, no. No, I got no idea. All right, you're on. I like that. I tell you what, mate, you've. You've restored your reputation. I had to do some idea. Back in the game, Scott, you're back in the game. Thank you very much, James, my dago. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery hour continues. It's quite a mixed bag today, I have to tell you. I think we've gone definitive on wine gums. But if you think you can add some flesh to the bones of Roger's answer, then do feel free. They never had wine in them, but his geography was correct on where they started. And it wasn't a jewish thing. I think it was a Methodist thing, but it was a father who disapproved of his confectioner son's employment of alcoholic terms, but not contents to sell sweets. Why do some tablets come with an instruction not to crush them? I've tried an answer. You're not impressed. Chances are I'm wrong. And how does the royal mint know how much money to make every day? We went agreeably definitive with the question about flu jabs, thanks to Fahim up in Wakefield, which means there's plenty of room for you should you want to join in. Zero. 345-606-0973 Richard is in Croydon. Richard. Question or answer? Couldn't answer for you. Carry on. The stapler. I forgot to list that one. Why does the stapler have that little twisty plate when no one ever twists it and all we ever really want to do is use it to staple stuff together? Well, when you. When you don't want to staple something together permanently, you twist it so that the prongs go out outweighs so that the piece of metal goes flat. And then you just literally pull at one end and they come apart. So do you do it vertically instead of horizontally? Then you can do it any which way. Am I being a bit. Don't use that tone of voice. I'm being a bit thick. All right. I can't what the problem I've got. I can't visualize what you're describing. I need a stapler. And frankly, I thought one of my colleagues would have brought one to me by now, so. Okay, so you. So you know when you. When you staple something normally. Yeah. The. The prongs, the outer edges of the staple get bent underneath. Yeah. Yeah. So it makes a c shape. Yeah, yeah. When you do it with the other side of the plate. Yeah. It comes out as a. As a flat, as a letter I. Right. And therefore it. It attaches the two pieces of paper. How still. How. Because it. It still. The prongs still go through both sets of paper, but instead of being turned over into the letter C, they go, I've got it. Yeah. So it's not quite an eye. It's a kinky eye. It's a kinky eye. Yeah. A kinky eye. Kinky Ia. As Bruce Willis family said, die hard. Indeed. Kinky I. A. And that means, for example, that if you were attaching a check to a document, you'd be able to remove the check without tearing both a bit of the check and a bit of the document. Very much so. Beautiful answer. Qualifications? I used to sell stationery. Did you? Yeah. What was your top ticket item? A four photocopy paper to shed loads of a four photo. Absolutely shed loads of it. Piles and piles and piles and piles of it. Bottoms falling out of that market now, isn't it? With emails and stuff like that and stuff. I have absolutely no idea. I drive buses now. You drive by, you move from selling stationery to being stationary. Yeah. Come on, mate. That deserves a bit more, doesn't it? Give a richer random pills for Richard, the bus driver, an ex stationary salesman. Ben is in Birmingham. Ben, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on, Ben. So regarding the tablets and why you shouldn't crush them, there's actually a few answers to that. Depends on which drug. I think your caller and you discussed one of them already. So some drugs are designed to be released in a sustained manner and the coating actually helps to prevent it all being absorbed too quickly to sort of smooth out the effects of the drug and prevent overdose or side effects in that regard. There's a couple of other answers, actually. So some drugs can. The acid in your stomach can actually destroy the drug. So the coating sometimes protects the drug, gets it into the more alkaline areas of your gut where they can be absorbed a bit more effectively without being destroyed, so therefore you actually get the right dose. And some drugs, for example, ibuprofen, similar families of drugs, can cause a lot of that side effects by acting on the stomach. So some of them can cause acid reflux or stomach ulcers. So in that case, the coating is there to again stop the drug being released into the stomach to sort of get it away from the stomach where it's less likely to cause those kind of side effects. So there's actually a few reasons. I think you got one between you already, but there's a couple more for you. Was mine not one of them. About taste, I think. Taste, gross. Well, taste, I don't know specifically about taste. I know actually sometimes the opposite. Sometimes we actually make the coating for the drug taste a bit foul to try and prevent people misusing the drug. So paracetamol tastes quite horrible in effort to try and stop people overdose on it. Okay, so I think you may be right there. Maybe that is an extra element, but there's a sort of three or four for you just there. Qualifications? Medical doctor. Pretty strange two doctors we've had today, and they've both been exemplary, actually. You give us all hope for the future, Doctor Ben. Oh, thank you very much. Also, I enjoyed your bus joke as well. I had a chocolate. I thought that was special. It was. I didn't make a big enough song and dance about it. That's the right attitude. If you crack a zinger like that, you've got to let it. Let it do what it's got to do. It speak to itself. Thank you, Ben. God, what a clever. Have a round of applause. Great stuff. 1240 is the time. How much money does the royal mint know to make on any given day? I think that's all we've got left, actually. We've got time for some more questions. Helen is in Watford. Helen, question or answer? Hello. Well, I've just arrived back from Australia. Yeah. And I want to know, were you in? I'm a celebrity. Get me out of here. Were you in? I'm a celebrity. So you didn't even see it. You didn't even see it either, did you? Because you. It was on here when you were over there. Exactly. I missed the whole thing. What a shame. Well, you say that it was brilliant this year. It was much more warm and friendly and my friend James McVeigh did absolutely brilliantly to come in. To come in fourth after such a. Such a. What's the word I'm looking for? It was a hazardous experience all round, but we digress. Wonderful experience. Good. But I have one problem. Wherever I go abroad, I always come back covered in mosquito bites and the rest of the people that I go with aren't. So my question is, why do some people seem to be prone to mosquito bites? I love that question. I mean, I'm a little bit certain that we've done it before, but that's fine. I can't remember the question. And David in Holloway points out that's becoming something of a regular feature. He says you have a very short memory. James, I asked you the stapler question many years ago and you told me it was your favorite question of all time, mate. If it was many years ago and I've forgotten it, that does not mean I've got a short memory, does it? If it was yesterday and I'd forgotten it, that would be a short memory. But either way, I can't remember the answer to Helen's question about mosquitoes. Either one of my children has the same problem as you. We can wake up on holiday, three of us are absolutely fine, and one of them is. Looks like she's got chicken pox or something. Yeah, I know, and it's awful, isn't it? It is awful. Vinegar's good vinegar doesn't know how to stop it in the first place. Yeah, get vinegar, I think. Put a bit of vinegar behind your ears. We met a lovely greek couple who didn't have much english last time we were in Greece and they noted how my child was covered in mosquitoes and managed to get through the power of mime and managed to communicate to us that we should cover in vinegar before she went to bed at night. And obviously you like those special plugs and all that sort of thing, but I shall find out for you. Why is your blood so tasty to mosquitoes? Exactly. Exactly. That we'll know. We'll find out even if it kills us. Thank you, Helen. Trevor is. Oh, come on. Trevor is on the way. It says here, to the royal mint. Trevor, question or answer, I wonder? Answer. Carry on. The question. The answer to the how much the Mormon knows how to produce. Technically, the Roman don't know how much to produce because the romantic is a independent company who have a contract with the bank of England to produce money. Right? So they don't stipulate how much money is the bank of England. The bank of England tells them so they manufacturing record the in the response to the amount they ordered from. And how does the bank of England know how much to order? Oh, that wasn't the question. No, he's just. I don't know. Look at that hoist. By my own pedantic petard. Unbelievable qualifications. I am a supplier to Royal Mint and I have a meeting there at 01:00 are you serious? Yes, I am. What do you supply? Paper. No, I know the Roman do not produce paper. The Roman only produce coins. Does it really? God, you're full of knowledge. I could talk to you a bit. I supply them with their gas detection equipment for the chemicals and toxic gases they uses on site when they're manufacturing money. How many suppliers do you think the Royal Mint has, roughly? They have about 150 supplies. But only one for this. You know what you get. I hope so. You've got to. I know. Not just because you deserve it, but also because Beth put your location on the screen as on the way to the Royal Mint. Which is. Yes. Only because she couldn't stop electric. Which is where the royal Mint is. I was going to say. It's in Wales, isn't it? It is in Wales, yes. Just outside of Cardiff. That'll do nicely. Go on, Trevor, fill your boots. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come thank you. No, thank you. Thank you. People who have absolutely no idea what's going on, I probably should have explained sooner. If somebody rings in to answer a question or to make any contribution to any conversation on the program and their qualifications for making that contribution are next level, then they get a ray Liotta. Because the motto of the program has, for a few years now, one of the many mottos, depends what day it is and how my short term memory is operating. The motto of the program today is, if you build it, they will come. Which means if I do my job right, then I'll get astonishing calls from you or astonishingly well qualified contributors to mystery app, like what we just did. Then you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I may allow, if you've rung in already, to answer this one to a question on whether or not or how the bank of England knows how much money to tell the royal mint to produce, because I thought that was a beautiful answer to an excellent question. But it wasn't completely satisfactory, because the answer then becomes, well, the royal mint don't decide how much money to make. Or you could say, how do the royal Mint know how much money to make every day? Answer the bank of England, tell them. But we kind of wanted to know about the calculation behind the instruction, didn't we? So I think I'll leave that one on the board. And the very important question of why some people are so much more attractive to mosquitoes than other people. Because contained within the answer to that question, there may be some advice on how to avoid it happening to you in the future. 1249 is the time. I've got room for a couple more questions, although we're quite tight for time, so speed would be of the essence. Neil is in suburban Neil. Question or answer? It's a question. James. Please carry on, mate. We've been watching a program called designated Survivor. It's a lot of scenes shot in the White House. On the program. It's pretty good. And what I want to know is, in the Oval Office, are the pictures curved to fit the walls? Because they look like they're flush with the walls. I don't know. It's only tv. But are they curved, the pictures on the walls of the Oval Office? That's a lovely question. I mean, they should, theoretically, if they weren't, then it'd be really hard to hang them, wouldn't, wouldn't it? Yeah. Yeah. But there'd be a gap, wouldn't it? And is it completely curvy? At the Oval Office, you've been. Because I know the carpet has got. It is completely oval, isn't it? There's no. It's not just a figure of speech. It's an ellipse, I think would be the correct word. I think you're right there. But I've never been in it, so. Have you not. No. No. Nor have I. All right, you're on. And that. All the things you could have asked about it, like why is it oval? Or da da da da da da da. The thing that's drawn your eye the most is all those pictures that are hanging on the wall sort of curved. It's unlikely, isn't it, otherwise, because they'd have to be. But then it is the president of the United States of America, which, until recently was a position held by very, very important and impressive people. So, of course, they could make a curvy picture if they had to. I think it's. I think it's oval because the designer was showing off the architect. Is that right? Just apparently strutting his architectural stuff. Well, I will find out for you. Are the pictures on the wall of the oval Office carved in some sense to accommodate the curve of the wall? It wouldn't be that difficult to do because the picture itself, of course, is on canvas. So the frame is the only thing that would to be made in a curved way. Why are you laughing at me? This is quite an astute observation, I realize. It's not as if you'd have to do a painting, especially to hang in an oval office. All you have to do is get a special frame. You could have any painting you wanted in it, unless it was done on board. Thank you, Neil. Mo is in Dublin. Mo, question. How are you, Mo? Not at all. How are you? Mustn't grumble. Have you got your irish passport yet? No, but I've actually tried to get one. I'm going to be fine. I'm going to be sweet. I'm going to be sweet as a pint of Guinness. Which has been plucked this morning from the liffey. Question or answer, mo? I've got an answer. Well, it's a partial answer for the bank of England. Oh, yeah, the money. So I can't say anything about how many are replaced because of damage, but in terms of the amount of new money that is either going into or being taken out of the economy, it's one of the measures that they use to manage inflation. So it's something called the money supply and the exact number you can find it be cash and cash, the polar cash equivalents, is an m m zero you can find on the bank of England. And this changes. So then they can try and manage inflation for the whole economy, so they increase the money supply. If they're trying to encourage and stimulate. This is a macro answer rather than a micro answer. I want to know how they decide how much to print today. Yeah, no, that's all I've got. So it'd be like. I assume it'd be prorated, but like, the decisions of how much cash should be in the economy is made at the NPC meetings, which are on the third Thursday of every month. Yeah. Okay. Round of applause for mo. But we've still got a little bit room just to build on that, because what you've said is clearly true. I just got a complaint while you were on the line. Do you want to hear it? Go for it says, love your show. Usually that's the best way to start a complaint, because it means I'll read. It means I'll read the next bit. Interesting how you referred to a helpful family while you were on holiday in Greece as having not much English, as opposed to you saying that you did not have much Greek or the local language. This is what I call unconscious bias and it's part of what's causing the problems today. You make a perfectly valid point. Regular listeners to the program would know that I actually do have quite a lot of Greek. The only problem is I just couldn't, for the life of me know, work out what the word for vinegar was. Which is why we resorted to miming. But no, it's a. It's a perfectly good point. I should, of course, have said, shouldn't I, Mo? That I didn't have enough greek for the conversation. Everyone's a critic. Everyone's a critic. Has he had his round of applause? You have. All right, that's enough. I'll see you soon. Take care. 1253. Matt's in Hull in East Yorkshire. Getting a lot of calls from Hull at the moment. Makes me very proud as a son of a former whole Daily Mail journalist. Matt, question or answer? It's an answer, hopefully. Carry on. It's the answer to whether gentlemen prefer blonde. Are we doing that one? Are we? I wasn't sure. I wasn't sure. But you've made an executive decision. No, you carry on that. But apparently when women are pregnant, yeah. Whatever color their hair is, it naturally gets lighter. And that triggers, in all other people kind of protective, nurturing instincts towards that person. And so in males, it triggers the response that they're. They're fertile and a good mate and that kind of thing. So you don't want to be mating with them? I don't want to be mating with them while they're actually pregnant. True. Excuse me. But, yeah, so it. Apparently it triggers these instincts in people. So the light of your hair is, to start with, you've got a bit of a head start with anyone who's particularly prone to those. Those responses. Qualifications. I had some genetic tests done and became quite close friends with the geneticist and she told me. Really? Yep. That's pretty strong play, actually, isn't it? I'm not going to argue with that and I suppose it must make some sort of sense. Have you. I'm trying to remember my wife's a sort of strawberry blonde or a redhead. I don't know that I noticed much about her. I was too busy watching her tummy. Yeah, well, come in, because that obviously triggers things as well. Indeed it does. I'm going to give you a round of applause. It's a lovely answer. Thank you. That would actually also kind of claws back a little bit of credibility for Patrick's original question, which went so horribly wrong towards the end. 1255 is the time Michael is in Bromley. Question or answer? Michael? Hi, James. It's an answer to an answer to an answer. Yeah. Bring it on. The royal mint. Yes. Well, I'm basically gonna go off from what the roman guy said earlier and for what mo said, the way it's done, James, let's say the bank of England want to print a billion pound next year. They do, yeah. They say, and then they'll percentage this at 70% of that will be digital money. Right. 20% in banknotes, 10% of it in coins. So then the Mark Carney will say to the real mint, can you print 100 million pounds worth of coins? And this is. This is after the monetary policy committee, or whatever the relevant body is, has decided that they've calculated how much they think they need to introduce their policies regarding things like inflation and quantitative easing, or whatever it might be. So they do all the hard crunching sums, and at the end of that, they do what you've just described? Yes, that's correct, James. And what the royal mint do is that they will allocate that into coins. So 100,000,002 pound one pound coins. So 12.5% of the coins will be two pound coins. That's 12.5 million two pound coins. Divide that by, let's say, 365 days. We're looking at 34,000. 35,000 pounds of two pound coins printed per day. This is the example. But that's how they would measure it. The royal mint. And it will be allocated and then they will do that. James, different types of two pound coins. Peaches and vice versa. You're a star. I think you've nailed it. What are your qualifications? I'll trade the stock market. And I've got background in economics. Round of applause for Michael. I like that a lot. When you say you play the stock market, is that your major source of income? Yeah. Yeah. When I buy clients and I basically get them in and out of stock market. So Brexit is basically something. A good thing for me to come in Christmas, come early, because you can make money out of. Well, I was a remainer, but put it this way. I know the wex works me out well. And because I've got a lot of remaining clients, I'm using the market to hedge them, their house value and their business. I've got a guy who sells coffee and he's worried about devaluation. So we've got a lot of. So you're moving his assets around and his investments around to cover. I like it. I'm all for silver linings, Michael. I really am. Don't, don't. Don't ever fall into the trap of thinking that I'm not. And of course, the news today that the house market has just hit a six year low. Make sure administrations on your clients behave all the more urgent. Great stuff. Did he get his round of applause? He did. Steve's in split. In what? In Croatia? Yeah. Cool. Question or answer? Answer. Okay. Split is the mosquito capital of the world. My wife sits next to me and gets bitten equally. To me, I have a hamine reaction. So I know I'm bitten. Right. My wife doesn't react to a mosquito, so she doesn't know she's bitten. Right. Okay. Yeah. So that's the answer. Some people. Everyone gets bitten. Some react, some don't. So it's about whether or not you get the big spots on you, not whether or not you've actually been bitten by the mosquito. Exactly. Everyone gets bitten. My wife, who sits next? I got it. I got it. Sorry, Steve. It was me being stupid. The silence was deafening. It was. It was deafening. I apologize. I mean, my favorite bits of radio involve silence, actually, especially when I'm on. But the. But the bottom line is that I didn't understand your answer because you were not actually giving the answer. You were describing the conditions that provide the answer. But I now understand the answer, which is why I can give you this. Oh, hang on. Qualifications. I live in split. No, that's not a qualification. First of all, I have never heard split described as the mosquito capital of the world before. Well, it's one of the capital. Well, exactly. Exactly. It's like Kidderminster is the carpet capital of the free world. But who told me? Axminster. So they are. You see. And Hugh Grant's dad used to work for gilt edge carpets. I found that out the other day. But we digress. Who told you that? That was the thing about mosquitoes. Where did you get the information? From my doctor when I went to him. Covered in those big spots, like you said. You have nailed it, Steve. We're over the line and that's it for. No, I've been bitten. I know you haven't. I've got to go. Sheila's here now. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You've had it already. You've had it. Be like mosquitoes. My wife doesn't know she's been bitten by. I think you might have grown up in your neck of the woods. I was about to say, Maddox. I love it. Love it. If you enjoyed this part, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.