What causes the massive lumps on trees?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien. Mister Arrow is upon us. What? It's Friday. Yes, well, we were very busy with important business down at Grenfell Tower yesterday, and I decided that given that our time together ends this week at 01:00 it would be quite fun to head towards that milestone in a. In a fit of fun and frolic rather than in a slough of political despond. So mystery hour will be upon us imminently. I'm also this hour, in the interests of fun and frolics, looking for Christmas round robins. Those missives that are included within Christmas cards sent by people you barely know or hardly remember, that contain the minutest detail of their previous year, from the state of their tomato crop right through to the state of Uncle Sid's bunions. And we've got one. We shall start mystery hour with one of those all the way from the old country. That's up next. But if you want to get your mystery hour question on the board, then zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. All right, shall I do the explanation of what mystery hour is? Then we'll take Angela's round robin and then we'll crack on with mister. Yeah, because we're in a new time slot. So I need to tell you very briefly, people will ring in now with questions that need answering, mysteries, if you will. They can be as daft or as serious as you like. The only rule we have is that they can't be dull. We'll do our best to weed out any that have been dealt with before. You'll do your best to ring in with a question that everyone listening is going to want to know the answer to the minute they hear the question. Okay, hit the numbers now. You will get through zero. 345-606-0973 who, why, what, where, when? Whither, whence, wherefore? Why do we do this? Why do we do that? If you hear someone ask a question you know the answer to, ring in and tell us. You could get a round of applause. If the stars are really aligned in your favor, you could get a ray Liotta. But, but, but you're not allowed to look anything up. I won't bore you with the details of why, but it's very briefly, it's an attempt to kind of just swim ever so gently against the tide of instant gratification, the way that my kids don't really need to know stuff like I did when I was their age, because they really can find out at the flick of a finger when the battle of Hastings was or what a Gladstone bag is. I don't know where that came from. You know what I mean? It's like what calculators did for mental arithmetic. So the Internet is doing for accrued nature. This is just a little old fashioned nod towards the days when the more you knew, the cleverer you seemed. Seven after twelve is the time. Hit the numbers now. You will get through. Listen out for answers. Got Jones the engineer in the house today, so we might actually be able to do a little bit of repetition guarding. It's been very bad in your absence, mate. We've had all sorts of hardy perennials creeping through since you left. Me and Jones are the only lonely, lonely couple in the earliest days of mystery. Are doing our best to stop repetition and popping up on the board. So we're back, the boys are back. It's like Jake and Elwood. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. And now our first round robin of the year, which has come to us, I should stress as a result, not of the radio program but of Twitter, there is the power of social media in a nutshell. Angela is in Dublin. Angela, good afternoon. Hello, James, good afternoon to you. What have you got? Dublin? Well, this came a good few years ago now, but I have the full round robin letter somewhere in the house. But I just. It was so odd the way that when we got it, I think it was even before emails were that common. Came through the post. Do we, can we, can we, do we know who it was from? I'll take some in a second. Are you allowed to share a little bit of who it was from or not? It was from an american couple. Perfect. That we. That were friends of my neighbours. Neighbors. It just gets better. Friends of your neighbor's neighbor? Yes, we call that next door, but one in England. Angela. Well, if, you know, I'm actually, I'm an exile Brummie, but I've been living in Dublin for 40 years. But anyway, my neighbor, I live in a place called Dunleary, my neighbor lives in a place called Rathgar and her neighbors had this couple staying with them that they didn't even really know very well. I think they'd met them and they'd foolishly said, look us up sometime. No one ever means that. No one ever means that. No one ever means that. We're coming over for November. Even the hospitable Irish. But anyway, goodness knows how they got the address, you know, from the neighbors. Your address. So you met them when they were staying with your neighbor's neighbour. Yeah. And you've been on their Christmas card list since. And here come the highlights of this round robin. Well, part of it. Just part of it. No, that's all we need. We only want little bits. James. And that was the real name. James was diagnosed with a lactose allergy during the year. And then the old problem reared its ugly head again with Billy. Unfortunately, that's all we need. So you don't know who Billy is? You don't know who Billy is. You don't know what the old problem is? No. You don't know who James is? No. We know what a lactose allergy is. We know what a lactose allergy is, but do we want to hear about it at Christmas? And I don't want to. Even from people that you do know? Well, the weird thing is, even if. Even if you got that from people that you do know what? Something you'd want to read, but from somebody that you haven't a clue who they are. And the fact that in America, I presume they send it out to Orland sundry of their pals, clearly. Yes, but they would at least know the characters. But we often wondered about it over the years. As I say, I've still got it up in some the attics. Well, I may, I may, I may, I may start pestering you next week for more details because you've set the bar quite high. And. Thank you, Angela. That's lovely. It's like the beginning of a gothic novel. And then the old problem reared its ugly head again with Billy. So now you know what we're looking for. Beautiful excerpt and all the way from Dublin. So come Monday morning, hopefully we'll get one or two a day. Last year. Last year wasn't a vintage year, but I think that may have been because I kept forgetting to tell you, my producer Beth is very, very good at reminding me to do stuff. So this year I suspect I'll put out enough reminders and we'll get enough responses and we can rise to Angela's challenge of coming up with something even more charmingly banal. Then James was diagnosed with a lactose allergy and then the old problem reared its ugly head again with Billy, unfortunately. Should we start off with mister? Yes, Benjamin is in. Perfect. Benjamin, question or answer? Hello. Thanks for having us on, James. Basically it's cigarettes. They always have like a caulk effect on them. Yes. And I don't know if it obviously originated, they were made of some sort of caulk or you've done it. You've answered your own question. Oh, right. I thought I might be able to get into some witty banter with you there. Oh, no. Oh, no. I spoil it for me. And I pulled over for work. No, I'm. No, this is terrible. You wanted some witty banter and I'm just awful. The second question. No, of course you're not allowed a second. I could be wrong, but I think that it was. It was physically different in the old days. You could see that it was cork on the end of it and therefore the would be far too sort of dense to smoke through. Well, maybe you're right. I don't know. It's gotta be put on the ball, doesn't it? I'm gonna put it on the board because you made me feel bad, Benjamin. You pulled over and everything and also you're getting really low. Push. I've succeeded there as a Rayleigh ota in it. Let's not get carried away, pal. I've only. I'm apologizing for the poor quality of the banter. You're not getting a Ray Liotta in your sack this year. Thank you, Benjamin. Mind how you go. Why does the cigarette filter have a cork effect wrapped around the outside of it? Not always. Sabranis, for example. Ross is in Chingford. Ross, question or answer a question, please, mate. Carry on, Ross. Animals associated. They've obviously got their own name. Cats are cats. And then you've got lions and they're like the feline. And then you've got fish. Why is a dog called a canine? Canos, Latin for dog. Really? When you sound skeptical, that's twice you've tried it. I can't believe you lost the last go. That's the truth. What do you mean, I lost the last go? Well, they went up on the ball, didn't it? Only because I felt bad about Benjamin's lack of banter. And we can all feel bad about everybody today, so mine going on the board as well. I can't. How can I put it on the. On the board when I know that I'm right? Okay, okay, no problem, sir. I have a round of applause for you. Well, why? What's happening? I feel it's because we're doing it on a Friday. Everything's gone a bit. Maybe it's not actually. No, it must. Can us or can I? Canine definitely comes from the Latin, but I'm not 100% sure that it is actually. Can us. Right, okay. So I'm going to put it on the board. Although only because I love you, Ross. Thank you very much, sir. You're very welcome. Cane county definitely, isn't it? I could have come a cropper on this. Who was I talking to the other day who said they were going to ring in and bumped into. I forgot. Lovely chap. I met him in Westfield last Saturday. And I've forgotten your name. I do apologize. But he was talking about how he wanted to ring into mischief. But he was worried that his question was too rubbish. And I said, well, usually when. When I think the question is rubbish, he said, yep, I know. Ten minutes later, you look like the idiot. And I thought, yes. People are really buying into this. They're getting the hang of it. Elaine's in Forest Hill. Elaine, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Okay. I tried to get through to you about it last week, but the line got blocked. Very strange. I don't know what's going on at your end. Nor do I. It's probably net neutrality anyway. Yes, it's regarding the royal family. I'm just wondering how many commoners will be allowed who are marrying into the de royal family before it ceases to become a royal family. Because every time that they marry in, surely the bloodline, supposedly of the royals is getting thinner and thinner and thinner. Is that really a thing? Well, yes, because in the past, I mean, when you had princes and princesses being gathered from all over Europe to meet up and marry, you got your royal family. But now, if they're marrying commonly, there's not going to be an answer to your question, Elaine, is there? No one's going to ring in and say, eleven, James. No, but it's a hypothetical one. Because, in fact, if you're going to regard, for example, as Kate and will as marrying, then straight away it's reduced it by 50%. So it's 50%. There's no such thing as a royal bloodline. I know they all used to marry their cousins and stuff like that. But that had more to do with making sure they didn't have to divvy up them the moolah allegiances and. But if you. If you were a princess of Forest Hill and you married the. The son of a king of Siam, that. That the notion of that being some sort of royal bloodline is absurd. No, but in this country. No, but I'm talking about the concept. Who have you got your eye on, Elaine? Who have you got your eye on? Who. No. No. Well, I don't believe in it anyway. But I mean, we're coming. We're coming. Close to almost electing them in a sense that we're putting somebody up to be a representative of the common person who will then go into it and somebody who five years ago wasn't even heard of and now everyone's burying and scraping. Yeah, I understand why you're asking, but there is no answer to this, Elaine. Impossible to answer the question, so I can't really do much with it. No, but the concept constantly is that we have a royal family. I know, but there's no answer to your question. How can we continue to have a royal family when it's full of commoners? I think you need to take this up with the constitution. I'm not. Stop. It just doesn't. You know how mystery hour works. People have to ring in and say things like kangaroo. Kangaroo? Yeah. Can you not see what I'm getting at least? But it doesn't have an answer. There's no earthly way anyone can ring in and answer your question. Well, only. Only? Well, yes, in the sense of saying that eventually it will run out, but there's no such thing. Hey, what's the matter? Just making my head hurt. Oh, yes. Well, it's something you've got to think about. It's not your. Is your constantly hearing about who's going where at Christmas to Sandringham or having meals with the queen and so on. But no. No, because. No, no, no. No print. No, no, no, no, no. There's no lip. No. No. That. The point is that the little fella, what's his name? The little one? Napoleon. Napoleon. Well, you said little fellow. No, I mean, he could have said Jimmy cranky, it wouldn't help but little. The youngest, the Prince, the son of Prince William George. Is it Prince George? Yes. Yes. Right. He is just as royal. But it doesn't matter. He's just as royal. His royalty is by dint of his birth, not his bloodline. He is as royal as his dad and his dad is as royal as his dad and his dad is as royal as his dad, even though his wife was, his mother was a commoner. Yes. All right, I. So I've got you an answer and the answer is never. Never. Okay, well, see what anyone else is. Too late. And I shall. I shall make inquiries as to why you couldn't get through last week because questions of that caliber should be queuing up to put them on every day. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I'm a bit worried about Andre and. Sorry. It just takes it to say hi, James great show. I'm off for lunch, so I just want to say God bless to you and your family. Have a lovely Christmas. See you in 2018, mate. What the hell are you having for lunch? We've still got a week till we break up. Andre, I'm here next week. I'm off for lunch. See you in 2018. Who are you having lunch with? Mister Creosote. This is quite incredible. So, anyway, merry Christmas to you as well. I'm starting again. I've got everything right so far. I'm not leaving those two questions on the board, because I was right about both of them. The reason why you have that sort of wood chip or corky effect at the bottom of cigarettes these days is because they used to have a sort of wood chip or corky filter on them. So I'll take the round of applause for that, please. And the derivation of why do we call dogs canine? Is from the lack of can. Can us. I said Canis, on reflection, is the correct answer. So I'm taking that one as well, because the answer is from the Latin. It's from the latin mate. So that means we've got no questions on the board. Carry on. And there's one phone line free. Grab it while you can. Aston is in ealing. Question or answer? Aston. It's a question. James. Carry on, mate. So, my question is, everything revolves around the sun. Everything in our solar system revolves around the sun. In our solar system rounds the sun. Yes. Is the sun moving? And we're following it. So, like, if I grabbed a big stone, put loads of little stones in orbit and propelled it forward, is that happening? Yes. How can you be so sure? Because the sun and everything in our solar system is revolving around the middle of the Milky Way galaxy. Bang. Boom. Four hour four, mate. Do you reckon I could pull it off? It could be like that arsenal team. I really hope so. It's not. Let me see what's coming up next. This would be the end of it. Good luck. Carry on. Thank you very much. Felix is in Luton. Felix, come on. Ruin my flawless record by asking a question I can't answer just for people who are listening to mister out for the first time. This isn't an exercise in ego massage on my part. It's a complete coincidence that I knew the answers to all the questions that we've had so far. And it's much, much more fun when other people ring in with the answers. So even though Felix is about to ask something that I don't think I'm going to be able to answer. That is actually good news. Felix, what have you got? Yeah, hello, James. Hello. Yeah, James. A female cow. Yeah. Yeah. And she has. Has twins. Yeah. She has calves? Yes. A male and a female. Yeah. Well, the female can never breed. Really attacking. It's actually called a free Martin. But if she has two males, no problem. If she has two females, no problem. But if she is a male and a female, the female is no good. Will never be able to have calves. Really? Are you sure? 100% is called a free martin. A free martin? Yeah, and it's a. It's. It's a female. So you have male female twins and the female twin will be infertile. Yeah, but the male will be. Okay, but that doesn't make sense. I know this. I know this because it's happened to me four times. What, you're a farmer, are you? Yeah, well, I'm a hobby farmer. How many cattle have you got? 50. It's a bit more than a hobby, mate. One. One would be a. One would be a hobby. Yeah, I know. A hamster. A hamster is a hobby. 50 cows, mate. That's a full time job. So you mean, you know. And so on four separate occasions, you cut your cow? Has had twin? Yeah. Well, why didn't you ask the vet? I just. I wonder. I want to just ask you. I've never considered asking the vet, to be honest with you. No, fair enough. It said no. In fact, it's called a free martin. I love it. Well, you're on the board now. We'll get you an answer if it kills me. Felix. Hi. God bless, mate. Mind how you go. 27 minutes after twelve, Jordan is in Bexley Heath. Question or answer, Jordan? Question, please, James, carry on. Okay, so this question come about from a bit of a near miss I had the other day while I was driving. I was driving down a 40 miles an hour road. Hang on a minute. Yeah, this sounds like a motoring question. Well, not really, no. So your story starts with you driving at 40 miles an hour down a road. And it's not a question about motoring? Well, it depends. Well, it's not about the engine or anything like that. It's more about the logistics of it. Let me know what you think. I will. So someone decided to run across the road, basically thought they'd take a chance and run across the road. And I obviously slowed down, didn't. Didn't want to hit them. I didn't want to upset their day. Very public spirited. Very public spirited. Off your choice. I was feeling festive that day. If you hit me at 30, there's a 30 cent chance I'll live or whatever, or 30% chance of surviving. I did that. 30 miles an hour is okay to hit somebody at, you know, because if I get hit by a coach or a hdv at 30 miles an hour, I'm going to postpone a lot more injury than I am from a full fiesta. Not necessarily. Well, well, yeah, but I just, you know, they can't conduct an experiment on a real person. Just go, sorry, we eat you at faulty. And. No, well, they can. I mean, they can. They can model it, they can do computer predictions and so what I. So the question is a bit more interesting than it originally appeared. It might be. How would you phrase it? So how do they determine the speed limit, the safe speed limit for cars to hit a pedestrian? Yeah. So, I mean, it's really. How do they set speed limits with pedestrian safety as being a key criteria? And it always is. Yeah. All right. I mean, I don't know that there'll be. There must be an answer, but. Well, I hope there was because, you know, I think that we all just decided one day was a good. Was a good speed, you know, so how did they hit 30? Did they arrive at 30? Because there was quite a lot of calls for it to be reduced to 20 in residential areas. Okay, I remember that. We've done that on the program before. So it's going to be a bit arbitrary. There's not going to be an objective algorithm where you punch in speeds and it tells you. So how do they set it at 30? And then we'll see if we can bring the pedestrian safety element into it. Yeah. Oh, yeah, definitely. All right, cheers, Jordan. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Questions in need of answers. What? Explain free martins. Free martins are female calves born as twins with a male twin, and they're always infertile. Why is that? Zero? 345-606-0973 and what was the other one? Oh, the speed limit. How do they arrive at 30? With regard to what? Because it's in pedestrian areas that you have to drive at 30. Even I know that. And this is sounding more like a motor in question now again, actually. But anyway, why. How did they work out that 30 was safer for pedestrians than 40 or 30? 512. 35 is the time Ben is in Twickenham. Ben, question or answer? Carry on, Ben. The free martins. Basically what happens is when a heifer has twins, quite often the placenta membranes will merge in the uterus. And so what happens is the blood vessels from each of the calves get really close and they start sharing antigens and proteins across this, which means that as they develop, they start developing some of the characteristics of the other gender. And it does it. Does it involve areas of high concentration and low concentration passing through a semi permeable membrane? Yeah. Diffusion across the blood vessels. Yeah, absolutely. Is there another word for that? It's just movement of these proteins going across. So when a mammal develops in the uterus, the mother and the fetus, their blood doesn't mix, but certain things can travel across those blood vessels and some small proteins along with oxygen and waste products and stuff to do that. And that is what renders. That's what renders the female twin infertile. So it's hormonal, is it? Is it hormones as well? No, no, it's not. It's. It's, um. It's the. The cubs, because their blood vessels in the placenta are so close. Yeah. They start sharing some of these proteins and as a consequence of that, they will start to develop some characteristics of the opposite sex. Oh, so the female twin is a little bit male, as it were. It's almost a transgender issue. This is a. No, I'm not trying to be funny. It really is. Yeah, yeah. Well, yes, yes. Hermaphrodism is probably a bit closer. Hermaphroditism. And how come? So. But the male calf will be fine, so. No, the male calf will have reduced fertility and is less affected, so. But the female calf, and I think it's 90% of the cases, will be completely infertile. That's. What a brilliant answer. What are your qualifications, Ben? I am a biology teacher and interestingly, this is actually a question I've used with candidates preparing for Oxford and Cambridge to try and get them to work that out in the past. Oh, this is just superb. How long have you been listening to Mistria? Is this the first time? Well, on and off for about the last three years. Oh, okay. So you didn't. We haven't done it much, you see, in the last three years, because I was trying to push you towards saying a word that has mythical status on mystery hour, but either. Either I don't. Either I'm wrong and the word doesn't apply, or when you said diffusion, you could have said something else that begins with osmosis. Oh, Friday's turning out all right. Now, is that. Is that biologically correct, though, Ben? Well, so osmosis is the movement of water across the semi thermo membrane, but that would be involved in this process, wouldn't it? No, because the water concentration stays the same on each side of the membrane. All right, scratch. No, it's all right. You get a round of applause, though. Brilliantly done. It's almost a thing of beauty. Is it only water that is affected? How can you live and learn? Ben, that was brilliant. Thank you so much. You. And I mean this sincerely. You've got a brilliant way of expressing yourself. Your students are lucky to have you. Angela is in Epping. Angela, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. My son was asking me the other day, why does the ink out of the bio when you take it apart, why doesn't the ink leak? Well, it's the viscosity, isn't it? Is it? Yeah, it's so. It's because it's so thick it doesn't leak. I mean, it can. A biro can leak, but you can't pour biro ink around the place. And the ball point pen means that the back of it is getting coated in ink. And then, as you write with the front of it, the ball turns around and brings ink from above. But it's only. I think. I think it's a simple answer. It's just because the ink is so thick. All right, okay. I gave him a toothpick. Yeah. And he poked down the end, and all of a sudden it just started pouring out everywhere. Did it? Yeah, well, actually pouring out everywhere. Yeah, it was just coming out all over the place. Oh, all right. Crikey, I bet that made a mess, didn't it? Yes, it did, you silly sausage. Because you can't blame him for it either. Because you gave him the toothpick. Yes, I did. Top mumming, that. Top quality parenting. I bet he was there. All right, so I'll leave it on. So you. You created laboratory conditions, circumstances in which the ink in a biro did actually flow and spread everywhere. Yeah. Well, then the question is more interesting than I thought. So then it becomes, how come it doesn't do that? How come it doesn't do that when it's in the little tubey thing? Yes. All right, then. Is he at school today? Yes, he is. But I shall play him back, then. Well, let's hope we get an answer in the next 20 minutes. Angela, great stuff. Lovely question. And. Good guy. Again, quality parenting. Give him a toothpick, let him poke stuff around, even if it results in ink going everywhere. 1240 is the time. Duncan is in Richmond. Duncan, question or answer? Hi, James. Merry Christmas. It's a question carry on, Duncan. When I'm walking my dog, usually I see these in Richmond Park. I don't know what kind of trees they are, but on the side of the trees, low down, there are these huge growths, like big bowls, coming out of the side of the tree. Do you know what I. Do you know what I mean? I know exactly what you mean. There's a rather large one outside the National Portrait Gallery, just around the corner from this very studio. Yes. Yes, I know it. I know that one. I'm wondering. I do. What a small world it is. We're comparing our knowledge of tree growths and because it's to do with plants, I don't know whether this involves some kind of movement of liquid across the semi permeable membrane. Nice try, mate. I want to know how they form. What happens to the tree that it. That it forms these huge growths on the side? Is it a knot? Is it not a knot? Is it not a knot? It can't just be some kind of large knot. There's got to be something, a giant knot, because I've seen. Well, I've seen giant knots on trees when they have their, you know, when they have a limb cut off or something and it forms a knot. So I don't think it's that they are like massive bulbous growths, like you say. Yeah. Oh, cool. They're very prized by woodturners because they've got lovely patterns inside. So wood burners like them, they cut them off and make lovely things out of it. This is a lovely question. I like Richmond Park a lot, so this is one of the nicest parts you're on. We're just going to go with large growths because we don't have a technical term and if we had the technical term, we'd probably be halfway to the answer, wouldn't we? Yeah, you're on. All right. Can anyone help Duncan with his large growths on trees? 1040, 212, 40, 212, 42. Seriously, you're not late for anything. Or indeed early. Steve's in Hornshire. Steve, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on, Steve. Nothing as interesting as some of these questions, I think. Why do dogs roll in fox poo? Mate, if you've got a dog. If you've got a dog that's rolled in fox poo, this is interesting. Not yet. I'm out there in the park now with my dog and hopefully she hasn't found any, but it seems to be only fox poo for the most part, and I'd like to know why. And she is she one of the ones that just can't resist it? Yes, I would say. But having said that, she doesn't roll in it when it's in my garden. She's curiouser and curious, Steve. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Big questions that dog owners want to know, I imagine. And as I am now a dog owner, and as I recently had experience of this curious enthusiasm that our little dog has for rolling in forks. But just the once, though, I would like to know why. Because it stinks. Yep. It's rank to get rid of. I've tried various products and most of them don't work. What sort of dog have you got? All of them don't work. Cocker spaniel. It's quite. It's not that long. Quite long hair then. Yeah. Yes, she is. She's. She. I don't really think it matters how long the hair is. It just gets in. Gets in. Now, if you've got. If you've got a short haired dog and you get your power hose on or your shower head really cranked up, you can get most of it off. But the soap, when you say product from the one dog that you've owned. James. Yes, I do. I always speak from experience. Steve, unless we're discussing Morris dancing, I'll get you an answer on that, because everybody wants to know. 1244 is the time Ed is in St. Albans. Ed, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Split into two parts, really. Chance it's to do with the speed limits and what speed hurts people effectively. Oh, yeah. First off, that would be the speed that hurts people. Rather speculatively, I imagine. There's been extensive research done on what forces on the human body caused harm. And thus it's a simple f equals ma equation as to what speed you have to hit someone to cause damage. And therefore, in built up areas, it's 30. Around schools it's 20, due to the force required being lower to do damage to them. And then secondly, why the speed limit is set. So, firstly, that's the speed at which it may do damage, but secondly, the average reaction rate of a person driving versus the risk of someone stepping out in front of you. And deceleration, as I'm sure you know, is measured in negative meters per second squared, of course. And therefore, the slower you're going, the higher the percentage of deceleration per second. So that's why it's 30, because you'll slow down much quicker. And on the motorway it's 70 because you might be 20 meters behind the car in front, and therefore you'll slow down slower initially. Like it? Qualifications. One of few people that probably listens on a speed awareness course and an airline pilot for the braking aspect of it. That will do nicely. Round of applause, Fred. Good work. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Why does the ink not spill out of a biro? Those massive growths on the side of trees? What causes them? Beloved of woodturners, of course, because they have such beautiful grain. And why do dogs roll in fox poop? Something for everyone here. Dan's in Croydon. Dan, question or answer? Question, please, James. Go on, mate. When did people start smiling in photographs? What, you want a year? Well, not to the dad. I mean, was there a. Was there something that started off, I suspect. And thinking out loud on this one, I suspect it has a lot to do with shutter speeds and exposures, because back in the day, you had to stand still, didn't you, for quite a long time, if you were having your photograph taken. So the best thing you could do would be to have quite a stern, almost your resting face. Do you see what I mean? Yes. And then, as it speeded up and you were recording a moment, rather than actually turning up at a studio and having a portrait done in quite formal, and, as I've said, lengthy circumstances, when the technology advanced and photographs have been taken more regularly and you weren't posing, and if you were, you could smile, but I don't know that that is a proper answer to your question. But then what took that from a formal to the informal smile? That would be availability of cameras, wouldn't it? I think I'll put it on the board. I hope we get someone on that, because it's a really interesting question, because even when you look at pictures from the Wild west and stuff like that, everyone looks so angry. Yeah. The American Civil War. That's it. Super serious. It should lighten up a bit. I mean, I grant you, they were at war and everything, but still, everybody needs a bit of light relief. Tusk signs, so I'm not giving that. We'll get out. I like it. When did people start smiling in photographs? Someone will know this. I just hope that they're listening. Zero. 345-606-0973 Dean's in Wigan. Dean. Question or answer answered. James. Carry on. The ink. Oh, good man. Go on. It's to do with atmospheric pressure. Oh, yeah. There is pressure pushing in, into the biro, into the pen, to keep the ink in place, because it is completely airtight at the top. There's no pressure from the other side to push it out. It's the same way as when you take a straw and put your thumb over it and pull it out of the water. The water stays in. So when he stuck his toothpick down it, what did he do? He just pulled it out. And it pushes some of the ink aside, allowing air to come in from the side, which pushes it down. So then it all spills out. All goes wrong. So, I mean, the basic answer is atmospheric pressure and the thickness of the. Oh, no, not even the thickness of the ink. Well, the thickness of the ink does help because it means that you need more of a push to push. That's what I mean. But it would still. Even if it was of a very watery consistency, it would still hold. It would just be a lot easier to disrupt. You wouldn't need a toothpick. You could probably do it by squeezing the side of the biro. Yeah. Or with the example of the water in the straw, if you shake it enough, some of the water eventually falls out. Yeah. Qualifications? I like that answer a lot. A level and physics I'll do. Have you used it much in adult life? Not for anything useful. Well, you have now. It's good for teaching the kids. You have now 52. Great stuff. Where we going to go next? Michael's in Taunton. Michael, question or answer? Answer, James, carry on. It's the one about the dogs rolling in fox mast. Yes. Oh, very diplomatically put, Michael. I. Thank you. Yeah, yeah, I thought I'd have to. Especially this time of day, if someone's having their lunch. Yeah, yeah. They do that. Especially certain types of breed, the working dog that hunt or flush out game, and they do it primarily to mask the sense of canine. So they roll in badger's mess as well, which stinks just as bad. So they'll roll in fox or badger now, I guess some could say. Well, won't be adults. Yeah, they are, but they're wild, so the smell of them won't scare away potential prey. That's right, yeah. Because on domestic dog, you'll have a great sense of human on it, which is what wildlife fears the most. This sounds like a brilliant answer. What are your qualifications? I trained as a dog behaviorist. Also, it's very interesting, he said about his dog doesn't roll if the fox messes in his own garden. Yeah. It's a cocker spaniel as well, which is that type of dog. So I was thinking about it and it came to me. Our own homes are the most secure for our dogs and the safest, you know, how they feel. It's our, it's for us as well, where we feel most safe and secure, hopefully. Yeah. So I, I'm guessing that the dog won't roll in its own, on its, in its own territory because it's not feeling to hunt and flush out. So we go, this is, this is evolutionary stuff then. Depends if you're a Christian or not. No, you can be a Christian. Darwin was a Christian. Let's not get bogged down in this one. Yeah, well, that's debatable. What is? Yeah, that he was a Christian. It's not. I asked him, when I say I asked him, what I really mean is I was reading about him at the natural History museum last week and he would have very much described himself as a Christian. But I know what you're driving at. Yeah, great work. Do you not work as a dog behaviorist? I'm not able to anymore. I have a chronic disc problem in my back. Oh, mate, I'm sorry to hear that. Okay, thank you. I've got a cross between a cavalier King Charles and a poodle. Right. What can I do to stop it to make it a bit less yappy? Well, the lady who trained me is called Jan Fennell. I always suggest people to read a book, the dog listener. All right. And go from there to actually get someone out to you. But it's interesting, the poodle is also a game dog. You know, it flashes. Yeah, it does. Well, yeah, you can tell because it does that thing with its left paw when it's just waiting to lift its paw up. Ah, fascinating. So the yapping side of things. It depends, I guess, what situation it's barking and doing that in. All right, I'll read the book, which is a big, you know, it can be a big overall, I was hoping for a sort of, you know, idiots guide, but you're clearly no idiot, Michael. Good work. I've got something really funny I want to play you because I sometimes worry that you think I might be exaggerating the curious combination of idiocy and danger that Donald Trump's administration represents to the free world. So I'll do that, I hope, before close the play. But I want to get, I've got a couple of more calls to squeeze in first. Andrew is in Newcastle. Andrew, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Andrew. It's about the growths on the wood. Oh, yeah, yeah. In England they're known as burrs. America they're known as burls. I think the other way around. Do we know what causes them. It's a deformation in the grain. When the trees grow in, it can be caused by trauma or fungus growing there or something. But something. Something alters the way the grain grows and causes it to grow in all sorts of weird shapes and directions. What are your qualifications? I am a woodturner and woodworker. Oh, get in. I mean, how many woodturners do you think there are in Britain at the moment? Well, I'm just starting myself, starting out, so I'm not professional yet. But. But that is. That's how it happens. It happens by accident. It's not by design or by nature. It's a. It's a. It's like a scab that never heals. Yeah, pretty much, yeah. Great work. Round of applause for Andrew. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.