Where is the line when it comes to buying a Saveloy from up north to down south? - 7 May 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time listening to mystery. It's Jeff in Arsenal, Ben Miller, already describing on Twitter as the best hour of radio available anywhere. If you want to know where their enthusiasm comes from and you don't already know, stick around, you're in for a treat. It is. It's actually better to sort of suck it and see, as it were, rather than to take my word for it, because it sounds, when I describe it to you, like the radio equivalent of those old newspaper columns where one reader would write in with a question and then all the other readers would write in over. And they were interesting, but they were hardly hilarious or exciting. This is all of those things. And not only that, it comes with a cast iron, copper bottomed, gold plated guarantee. And that guarantee is this. You will know more by 01:00 today than you know now. Remember, they work incredibly hard on this hour for one very simple reason. The phones go absolutely bonkers. But an awful lot of people who ring in aren't going to get on air because they're asking questions that we've dealt with in the past. They haven't quite got the hang of the kind of question that we're looking for, or they're asking a question that's very boring. And unfortunately, last week we were reminded of just how awful it can be when a bunch of boring questions get on air. So be patient. And if you hear me say the number, then dial zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Anything goes on this. If you hear someone ask a question to which you know the answer, give us a ring. And if it turns out to be a correct answer, we're persuaded by your attempt to go definitive and your qualifications. Your qualifications don't involve certificates. They might. It might be because you are the professor of the public understanding of science at the University University of Brighton. Our most regular contributor is. Or it might just be because you saw something on telly last night or last week or last year, and that's how you know the thing that you know. Either way, you'll get a mystery hour. Round of applause, you lucky, lucky person. That's it, isn't it? I can't think of any. Dullness and repetition are the only rules. Ring. The number remains the same. You'll only hear me say if I've got phone lines free and I got a nice one on Twitter, which I'll dig out as well for people who enjoy it on podcast but not live. Heather is in Oban. Wow, the other end of the country. What's your question? What makes our toes curl? You know, what's the message from the brain to tell our toes to curl if we see something? Usually with me it's if I see somebody getting hurt or an accident. Why does our toes curl and they do physically curl? Because I mean it's obviously a figure of speech that must be built on some reality but I'm just trying to think whether or not I get it myself. Yeah, like I get, see, if I see someone getting a blood test it's like a wince. If you do the wince of your face. Actually everybody don't do this if you're driving people, but if you wince your face, your toes actually go, yeah, so imagine you're eating a lemon. Oh, and then you actually never noticed before but your toes have cold. Your toes curl. Michael, did your toes curl? Michael's toes curled. Michael's toes always curl when he's producing this program. Seven minutes after twelve is the time we want to know why. Why your toes curl? Because there'll be an evolutionary explanation for it, presumably. So, yeah. Can you just talk to me a little bit about oban before you go? Well, I'm just outside open, but it's lovely. Sunny today, glorious part of the world, absolutely glorious. It's right at the other end of the train line as well, isn't it? Yeah, we're about 20 miles from Alban but it's gorgeous. Oh you lucky person. Thank you. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Why do Heather's toes curl? Not just Heather's but yours as well. What would it be? It's like getting you ready, Sal, you sort of go technical. Turn that. Sebastian's in Milton Keynes. Hello Sebastian. Hi James. Good afternoon. Question or answer? It's a question. Splendid. Outside my window here in Milton Keynes sings a bird. Of what description? I don't know but it's, it's beautifully tuneful and what it. Its utterances are highly complex. I wish I'd be able to record them so I could play them but it goes Twitter, Twitter, Twitter, Twitter, Twitter. Well you're going to have to give us a little bit more than that, my friend. Yeah, I know. The point is the aisle and it doesn't repeat itself and it lasts for about a second, a second and a half and then there's a pause and I hear another bird in a similarly high point in a tree somewhere answering, right. And it goes back and forth and, damn it, it is a conversation because it. I've got a good ear for these things, evidently. And it is not repeating itself. Really? Really. And. But occasionally it will get. It will repeat itself, and it's as if the other bird had said, what did you say? And it goes, Twitter, Twitter, Twitter, Twitter, Twitter. You know what I mean? Can I ask you two questions without you getting upset? Please do. Have you got a lot going on at the moment, Sebastian? Not. Not a terrific one, no. And why have you got one of the most. I don't know if you're aware of this. You've got one of the most engaging voices I have ever heard in my life. Oh, sweetheart, I don't believe you. I'd swear on my life, man, I could listen to you all day, but everybody in Sheffield talks like, now you're just being silly. Of course. So we need to establish. Yes. Whether or not there's any variation in Birdsong as in communication and variation. Well, obviously there is. I mean, it is highly between each other. It is highly different. What I want to know is, are they speaking to each other? Are they speaking to each other? Because I swear to God, it's a conversation. I want to hear it now. I want to come and listen to the birds of Milton. Keys. How you doing? Okay. White and kids? Yeah, they're fine. You know. What's it like in your tree? Pretty much like any other tree. Leafy. I hope there's an answer to this. I really do. And I hope you ring in again. Actually, I won't get you to do the audiobook version of Fire. I really could. Sorry, it's like a man crush. I could listen to you. You're not an actor or anything like that, are you, Sebastian? Sort of. Okay. Have I heard your voice before? In a different context, perhaps? Well, that's right. I'm actually an audio engineer. Are you? Occasionally. If I. If I'm lacking something to put in front of the microphone, I put myself there. Well, I think you should be doing that. Little voiceovers. Eleven minutes after twelve, are birds talking in the trees outside Sebastian's windows. Scott's in hornshot. Scott. Question or answer? James. Got a question, mate. Come on in. Question is, I heard you talk in yesterday. Well, you brought up savaloys. I can't remember why or what. Savalois? Yeah. You were talking about fast food. Yeah. No, it was pie barms as well. Up in Wigan, Derry's new new place, fat boys in Wigan and St Helens. That's the one, yeah. I wanted to know where I live and pretty much in the whole of London. You can't go in the chip shop without having or getting a savaloy. You don't have to have one. They're not compulsory, are they, Scott? For me they are, mate. Me too. Is. It goes north. I can't seem to get hold of a savaloy and I want to know if there was a Savaloy line like the Watford Gap. A Savaloy gap like the Watford Gap? Yeah. You get them in the Midlands, you get them. I can tell you for sure that you get them north of Birmingham in every shop. Pretty much, yeah. You'd struggle not to see a savoy in a proper chippy. I don't mean one of these newfangled sort of chicken and kebab outfits, I mean a proper chippy. If it does. If it does chips and fish, then it will do a savaloy. Yeah. So how far. How far north? Scotland. You get Savoys in Scotland? I don't think you do get Savoys in Scotland. You get battered puddings, don't you? Battered white pudding and battered black pudding. They do. Anything I'll do, mate. You're right, mate. If it moves, they'll batter it. It's twelve minutes after twelve saveloys. Is there a geographical threshold at which the saveloy is no longer available in the United Kingdom? And the bird. The birds talk. It. Does bird song serve a similar purpose to talking? And what was the very first question? Oh, it'll come to me. Twelve after twelve is the time. If you can answer any of the questions we've already had, or indeed, if you've got one of your own, then the question, remember, the number remains the same. Zero 3456-060-9730 and yes, the toe curling. Why do our toes curl? What's the evolutionary explanation for the curling of the toe when presented with a, you know, either a sourness on our palate or something horrible in our line of vision? I love these questions. We've gone back to Premier League this week after a quick foray into the vanorama conference last week. Jason's in Redding. Jason, question or answer? Good morning, James. It's a question. Bring it on. Yeah. Why is it. I've noticed, why is it that when you pour boiling water into a cup to make a cup of tea, for example, the sound is completely different if the water is hot than if it was, for example, sometimes I'll go to four of them. Cup of tea. I'll notice that I haven't. As soon as the water is in the cup, you know, straight away it's not hot and it's not because of the absence of steam. So why does hot water make it. Why does hot water make a different sound to cold water? It's not. Is it really that mysterious? Last time I called you, James, you seem to shot. You seem to have shot me down in flames. Oh, no, I'm sorry. No, don't say that. I don't want to be the bloke who shoots people down in flames anymore. I want to be the warm and welcome. Well, I mean, there's a physical difference between boiling water and cold water, as in something that you can physically. What. What would that alter the sound that it makes? Well, because it might be the viscosity of boiling water is greater or lower than the viscosity of cold. You're not saying it to me, James. What? Viscosity? That's the second most popular word in the history of mystery hour. The viscosity of the water doesn't change with temperature. Really? No, it doesn't. Well, I stand to be correct on that, but I'm certainly not aware that it does. Well, it probably does with other stuff. I mean, how can you say the viscosity of water doesn't? Okay, what happens when water freezes? What happened when it freezes? Good point. Thank you. If you actually tested the viscosity of water at 90 degrees as opposed to maybe room temperature at 30 degrees. I can't see. No, I'm not going to get a round of applause. You're right. No, fair play. I might be right, but I'm not going to be able to go definitive. Do you remember when I just said that viscosity is the second most popular word in the history of mystery? Did you? I didn't call that. Do you know what the most popular is? What? No, do you? No, I don't know. All right, I just wondering. No, no, no. I'm not saying it. I'm not saying it. I just wanted to know if the software was working today, because when someone says it and there's something is supposed to happen on the program and we haven't had it for ages, so I just didn't know if it was still working. We're in a new studio now. Do you really not know what the most the world on which mystery hour is built? No, I'm sorry. He'll build it and he will come. No, mate, it's 1215 with James O'Brien on LBC 19 minutes after twelve. Why do our toes curl when presented with something unpleasant? Does birds song? Do birds talk to each other through song in a way that we would recognise as talking? Where do Saveloys stop? These are the reasons why we do mystery out. Where do saveloys stop? We have a theory, a suspicion, a sniff of a story. The saveloy, the delicious spiced sausage available in many fish and chip emporia, stop somewhere in Britain. Because we know we get them in Birmingham, but we don't think we get them in further north territory. We could be wrong. Can we find the most northern saveloy in the country? It's one of the great benefits of the whole station, having gone national last year. And why do hot and cold water make different sounds when poured into the cup? Stella is in west Hampstead. Stella, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Big fan, by the way. You're very kind. It's mutual. I'm only filming today because you're in a good mood and you won't make me feel stupid. I'm always in a good mood. What I want to know is. Don't let me know. What I want to know is I was watching a program about greek history and I wondered why they had lions on the paintings, on the cave paintings and things like that. Because. Because. Well, I just remembered, in fact, you've got a connection with Greece as well, so you probably answer this yourself, as usual. Well, no, I mean. You mean because they're not native? Yeah. What do you mean on cave paintings? Well, they had wall paintings in the program and they were like lions in them. And I was thinking, well, did they have lions in Greece at some point a long time ago? Well, they would have done. I mean, in sort of neolithic times, they would have had all manner of creatures, but I don't know that paintings have survived. You know, they had lions in the Tower of London at the time of Henry VIII. Well, I can understand that because they're probably shipped over or something, but why wouldn't the ancient Greeks have? I mean, there's. This is. We're talking about an era, a prehistoric. Prehistoric Greece is the era of mythology, when Jason and the Argonauts were setting sail and Perseus was going to Crete. I want to know why. Why would they transport lions back to their own country? Because no one at home had ever seen one. Same reason we bring snow globes home today. No, no, come on. They're dangerous animals. How would they possibly capture them and bring them back home? And then endanger the lives of their own people the same way the Tudors did to bring them to court. At the time of Henry VIII, they had giraffes and elephants. I mean, it was just because they were amazing and exotic and no one had seen them. So, I mean, you're talking about an era where there was wealth on a scale that we find hard to contemplate in this day and age. So anything. Okay, hold it 1 second. Go on. All right. Cheeky. Do you think that. Do you think that they actually plundered Africa? Yes. Scipio. I mean, I don't know about the Greeks, but Scipio, the Romans, a similar era. Scipio was in Africa. Famously, Hannibal. The Hannibal came over the Alps with his elephant. Okay, is that your definitive anthropo? I mean, your question is, how come they had lions in ancient Greece? My answer is they went and got them from on the paintings. Yeah. So had they been travel somewhere and seen them? I'm not going definitive on this because I don't know whether there's more to this than meets the eye. I might. I don't know what sort of paintings you mean. You don't mean cave paintings. You don't mean daubs on cave walls, because you don't get those in Greece. Well. Well, no, there weren't caves, but they were wars at the end. If they went into the guy, that guy, souk. Jonathan Suk, is it? Yes. He showed some pictures with, like, weapons and they were, like, attacking. When they were attacking, they were like, yeah, and they had lions. And I was thinking, I'm leaving it up there. I'm leaving it up there. Okay. Because I don't know that I think the question might be more sophisticated than I originally realized, Stella. Oh, I really hope so. So do I. Have a lovely day. It's 23 after twelve. Professor Hal is here. We almost need a theme tune for Professor Hal now, don't you? He's got celebrity status all of his own. It's all about Professor Hal on Twitter on Thursday mornings. People putting up pictures suggesting. Suggesting this is what he looks like when he gets to work. Backlit with smoke machines kicking off in the background. All sorts of malarkey. I presume you have an answer for us. Professor House Ozobowski, professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. If I may, Jane, but can I ask you a very quick question, unrelated? First. Of course you can, mate. Do you know the difference between a savoy and a sausage? I thought I did, but just then I just went blank, like Natalie Bennett, I can tell you. But it'll pop your bubble. Go. It's not about rank. The meat is in a savoy, is it? It's not even meat, mate. It's brain. Hmm. I know. That's. That's something. I might have two on the way. Oh, you get them in Brighton. I don't eat tabloids. No, I know, you obviously don't, but they are available in Brighton. Yes, but they're the spawn of the devil. You're not gonna put me off. You don't understand. Are you a vegetarian? I've forgotten. No, I'm not, but I just. I'd like to see which particular organ of an animal I'm eating. All right, cheeky. It's a family show. Can we. Can we crack on with what you rang in for rather than you trying to put me off some of the finest foodstuffs known to man, please? Okay. Thank you. The hot water in the cup. Yes. I can give an answer and then correct the sort of the travesty that was uttered afterwards that concerns viscosity. Well, it's nothing to do with viscosity. No, it isn't. It isn't. But the original caller said viscosity doesn't change the temperature and as we all know, chocolate melts. Well, I did point that out with ice. I tried to use the ice to make that point as well. Yeah, but even something that's sort of hard and slightly sticky will get runny and so. Absolutely. What was he thinking? The second thing is that the density of water changes with temperature. So when you pour very hot water onto something, it will be best dense. And therefore a given volume of water will be lighter and therefore it will just sound different. Plus, when it's nearly boiling, if you've got little bits of dust in the cup, there'll be small nucleation sites which we'll call little micro boiling and therefore the sound will just be different. Peak. Answer, peak. So, just to give me the list. So, density, density nucleation sites for near boiling water. Nucleation sites. Cold water is more dense. Hot water is less dense. So, I mean, I don't want to sound conceited. It's a bit late for that, but I was right. Yes, you were right. I'll just put it in a slightly different format. No. Should we get the round of applause out, actually? And we can fight. We can fight over it, but I wanted to back you up on a viscosity thing because I was horrified as a scientist. That really did send a shiver up my spine. Someone actually saying viscosity is constant, regardless of temperature. Did your toes curl? They curled my face, went all manner of things. I mean, he was a nice fellow. I mean, you know, you're the professor of the public understanding at the University of Science. I'm sure if you turned up at his place of work and started very sort of, you know, coolly and calmly pontificating on a subject that was involved in his professional life, he would. You'd probably drop a similar clangor. I don't want him to feel bad about it, Hal. No, I don't want anyone to feel bad. This is my world, baby. And the viscosity thing, that's very close to my heart as it is to yours. It certainly is. It's the second closest scientific term to my heart in the history of scientific terms. It's under yet another one of these professorials. They're going to need a new cabinet for all your mystery outrage of applause the Savoy has not crossed the Irish Sea, I'm learning. And he's been in touch to tell us that his irish other half recoiled in horror at the sight of one in a chipper in Crawley recently. And as for pickled eggs. Pickled eggs haven't crossed the Irish Sea. You surprised me. I thought. I thought we pickled everything in Ireland. Ellis is in Bognor. Ellis. Question or answer? James. Good afternoon. Wasn't it Oliver Reed that took the elephant across the Alps, or am I wrong? Oliver Reed? You're absolutely right, mate. What have you got for me? My question is just that I know you're going to rip it apart. Why does everybody keep saying that? Why did I just lose my temper when people said that? That doesn't work on any level. Carry on, Ellis. That question or answer. Is there a rate by which the sea and its tidal flow turn stones into sand? Shall I rip it apart for you? Yes. I just wanted to know. I just. Perhaps it's a question for the prop that was just on. No, because it's different everywhere. It's different everywhere. I mean, some. That's why some beaches are still pebbles and some beaches are still sand. It's. There isn't a fixed rate for every. Every rock in the world. Because all seas are different. Types are different. Depends how rough the sea is. Not necessarily. In certain areas, they may dump tons of pebbles, you know, for tidal flow, et cetera, et cetera. But is there generally a rule by which a pebble or a rock will turn into sand? What do you mean, a general rule? Well, a level of. A level of friction that has to be achieved before because they're just two rocks. You get two rocks now banging them against each other. That is the process by which it will eventually end up being sandwiched. Yeah. Okay. If you. If you drove from here to Scotland it's going to take you 5 hours. If there's traffic on the road, it's going to take you 7 hours. Is there a rule of thumb that says if a stone is in the sea with the tidal flow over. Over a period of time it will turn to sand? Okay. I've got an answer for you. Go on. No. Chase is in Hamilhampston. I will come to you first after the news because I just in nick of time, glance at the clock. We've got a bit of a problem going on. You remember how I told you earlier that there were incredibly strict rules governing what we can and can't say on the day of a general election? But we haven't broken any of them. But we may have got it wrong about saveloys. I'm hearing reports from all corners of the country. The most furtherly north at the moment I think is Inverness, where they are available. In fact I'm told by my correspondent in Inverness that you can get them with battery Mister chips and without batter at the branch of Harry Ramsden's that is there, although he personally prefers a battered haggis. So we may have. We may have built one of our questions on an entirely false premise. We'll look into this during the news mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve. Savaloy gate continues. It's been suggested by Daz and I've got a lot of time for Daz and his theory that the split in Savaloy coverage in the country might be an east west phenomenon rather than a normal north south one. So the original question was where do Saveloy stop? And we thought they stopped heading north. But we've heard from Inverness. I've heard from South Shields. My thanks to you Peter Bridgman for that. He's found more evidence of the Geordie Saveloy. This is a butcher's shop in South Shields that sells them. Dickinson's is it called. And Dickson's butchers in South Shields sell them. You forget you can buy them in butchers. And Ian Dale's old producer Laura just rang in. She's listening up in Newcastle now, working for the opposition, but obviously still listening to me. So she also has revealed that you can get saveloys in Newcastle where can't you. Maybe they don't. And then Gareth suggests that it's called a smokey. Smokey's not the same as a savroloy, is it? A smokey's a scottish. It's like a smoked sausage. A savoy isn't fried, it's. Boy. Anyway, do they appear all over the nation, or were we right to suggest that they are actually geographically specific? If so, where to? That's just one of the questions on mystery. If you just tuned in and you're wondering what's going on. I haven't got time. Sorry. You just have to hang in there and hope that the clouds clear. Why do our toes curl? Does Birdsong serve a similar purpose to conversation? We've gone definitive on the hot and cold water and why were there lions in ancient Greece? I don't think that is actually such a mystery after all, Stella, I think I may have miss praised you when I said the question was more sophisticated than we realized. And I went definitive on the rock into sand question. Let's get some more on the board. Stans in southwark. Question or answer, Stan? Question. Carry on. Right, bear with me. Involves a scuba diver. Skin diver. In water. Yeah. Right. In the ocean. Yeah. If there's an explosion in the water. Yeah. Would the effects of the water nullify the explosion, that is, cushion the diver, or would the shockwaves be magnified by the water and thus injuring a diver worse? Does that make sense? It does, yeah. I quite. I mean, I think. Well, if I came around yours. Uh huh. And I had a hand grenade, would you rather. Would you rather I put it in your pocket or put it in the bathroom? House. An a or b? Multiple choice. Well, it was not so much the shrapnel like from a hand grenade. It was the force of the explosion. Would the water sort of cushion the. What have you got planned for the weekend, Stan? To tell you the truth, it's come up. About ten years ago, I was working on a power station. One of the guys, there was a diver and another one had been in the army, and we were. We had a spare hour and we end up talking about this. I love it. Bugging me ever since. I bet it has. It's a great. Because you think of things that. No laughing matter, obviously, but things like the tsunami. So you have an eruption at sea, but the wave itself is caused more by the hole created by the eruption and the sea fall. So the actual. Just a cold explosion, like an isolated explosion, which has shock waves. Does the water muffle or expand the shock waves of the explosion. Yeah. I'm getting back onto the explosive. But one of the guys I was working with was in the military. Yeah. And he said you can use, in effect, a large hot water bottle to so cushion the blast effects of an explosion going outwards. So it goes the direction you want. And this time we end up with like a bounce, like a cushion of. On a snooker table, like it would bounce it away from. This might be one of my favorite questions ever, Stan, and I'm not going to lie to you. Once. Once you sort of spat it out the first time. I thought it was a bit rubbish. You can keep your hand grenade in your pocket. I'm just pleased to see you, Stan. It's 37 minutes after twelve, Trace. Tracy's in her. Can't corpse myself. Tracy's in Hamel Hempstead. Question or answer? Tracy. What? What? Deja vu. Deja vu. Have you done this before? Have you asked this question before? How is it that you feel like and everyone's familiar with it? It's a terrible phone line, Tracy. I don't know what's happened. Whether you. That's all right. You've got the question out now. I just unfortunately can't engage in any cheeky banter with you because the phone lines. Too appalling. What is it? Because we've all been. That sense, I've had it recently, that absolutely irresistible sense that something's happened before. You've been in that exact position before. I don't know what the explanation is. Let's try and find out. Deja vu. What does it mean? Literally? Already seen Zack zing Greenwich. Zack. Question or answer? I've got a question. James has been bothering me for a while. You know, like, you see them everywhere but no real questions around cranes. How do they put cranes up with another crane? Because you got. That's what I'm saying. But then how did they put the other crane up? Well, that's a portable crane, so forth. That's a portable crane. So it comes down to ground level. You can build it at ground level and then hoist it up. Is it okay, then? It wasn't as complicated as you thought it was. I think we've had it before, but not for a while. So I'll take that one. Okay. We used to have a very strong listenership. I don't know if we still do. Among crane drivers of London. We used to get a lot of calls from crane drivers and then we looked into whether or not I could do the show from upper Crane and we couldn't. You know why? Health and safety. Who couldn't get the insurance? They wouldn't let me go. Sort of hundred foot up in the air outside Canary wharf. June's in Orpington. June. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. Why our toes curl? Yes. It's an automatic reflex of protection in the same way as a cat's claws flex out and curl inwards when they're in danger and the chicken will bend its talons around. It's a protective thing. It's to give us a stabler base, more grip, more purchase on whatever we're standing on. Oh, you're good. Yeah, you're good. I wonder if it has any links to when we lived in trees. Well, it's to when we used to climb into trees to protect ourselves from danger and what have you. How do you know this? What are your qualifications? Oh, God, this is going to sound absolutely pathetic. I noticed that our cat's claws were damaged if they'd had an accident of any description. And I noticed that our chickens always wrapped their claws around when I picked them up. So I asked the vet why and had a long discussion with the vet about it. So. I know because I was curious about my chickens. On what possible planet does that sound pathetic? That's all human life is. I mean, I. Obviously, I'm a little. Still a little sensitive about the whole chicken thing, given that we lost ours to a fox last year, but I know that you weren't deliberately. We lost four of ours last year. It's not a competition. It's not a competition. Horrible, isn't it? It really is horrible, actually. I still feel guilty. Well, I do as well. And it wasn't our fault, but it was, in a way, because I could have, I don't know, put a concrete base under the chicken run or something. You've earned a round of applause. Base. And it still got in. Yeah, little fox. Yeah. Yeah, little fox. Yeah. Yeah. Round of applause for June before we both get to emotional. Raheem's in Clapham. Raheem, question or answer? Answer, James. Come on, Raheem. Deja vu. Oh, yeah. Deja vu is effectively. It's like a very minor seizure. What's happening is the electrical impulses which are controlling your sensory input are being sent to the wrong part of the brain for a second. So what happens is, although you're experiencing the present, it goes to the part of the brain associated with memory. So although you are in the present, you sense it as a memory. And some people will often associate a very minor sense of slightly disorientated when they have deja vu. And that's just, again, the sense that the brain is just doing a little funny rewiring. And that's what the deja vu is. Qualifications? None. However, I asked my uncle, who is a neurosurgeon in Chicago, and I asked him this question years ago in a much larger debate about whether God existed or not, and he. We won't go into that bit, but he. I asked him about deja vu. I said, what about deja vu, then? And he said, this is exactly what dejavu is. That is one of my favorite answers of all time. Oh, hey, that is just a thing of beauty. Rahima, really. And just to drop in, my. My uncle is a sort of top New York neurosurgeon or neuroscientist as well. Yeah. In Chicago. Chicago. Sorry. And it may. It makes perfect sense when you think about it. The only thing I don't, and this probably does also make sense sometimes with me, I have it. But that would still fit with what you've just said about the part of the brain that's associated with memory, because I think I'm having deja, deja, deja vu. I think I have the same thing. Well, there you go. Maybe you've got an extra complicated brain. Right. So living. Raheem. Round of applause. Beautifully, cloud. Beautifully. That's one of my favorite questions about the explosion underwater. One of my favorite answers. This is like the polar opposite of last week when it was all a bit rubbish. Pause in northrop. Paul, question or answer? Answer to the birdsong. Oh, yes. And I only found out this the other day. They're actually. They are actually. The birds are talking to each other. And, for example, the dawn chorus. That's not all sweetness and light and harmony. They're actually marking out their territory, saying, keep off of this branch. Get out of my air strike. But is that mean? What Sebastian wants to know is whether they're going, keep off this branch. Keep off this branch. Keep off this branch. Keep off this branch. Or are they going, keep off this branch? Do I have to keep off that branch? Yes, you do have to keep off this branch. What's your branch like over there? Oh, leafy. So are they having a conversation or are they just putting out? They're actually having a conversation. They are actually talking to each other. And what? I've just thought about it as I'm speaking to you. Different species of birds. Must be like different races of people. They're all speaking the same language, though. Qualification, isn't it? Qualifications. Paul, my brother in law, works for the council and knows a lot about birds and animals. He cuts across for Norfolk council. He's an expert. My brother in law knows a lot about birds because he works for the council. I had to sit through this boring conversation with him last week and I was. Oh, yeah, mate. Oh, really? Oh, really? Oh, that's interesting. And then the question comes up, so I'm actually glad I sat there. Oh, well, I've got to give you a round of applause now, haven't I? Nice one. Half of that's your brother in law, but then you'd have to tell him you called him boring in front of all these people. He's coming up to quarter to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions that still need answers. Saveloys. It's all gone a bit weird, the Saveloy one. But if you can bring some clarity or closure to it, I'll give you the money myself. Lions in ancient Greece. I think a lot of people are pointing out the conquests of Africa and places like that. How far did Alexander the Great get? And pretty far. It's not that remarkable. But if they've got pictures of hunting in Greece, then that would just be the same as there being saber toothed tigers here in neolithic times, wouldn't it? I don't know if you want to have a crack at that one. If there's an explosion underwater, does the water magnify or reduce, dilute the shock waves? I love those. If you can answer any of them, you've still got time. It's 1245. It's eleven minutes to one. You are listening to mystery. Our Sharon's been in touch to tell us why she loves it so much. I'll tell you why I love mystery. As she writes. From my uncle's a neurosurgeon in Chicago to my brother in law, works for the council. In the space of just two calls. I tell you, don't know. Every single week that we veer from the ridiculous to the sublime and then back again. And every single week we do. Oliver's in Isleworth. Oliver, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Good man. Bring it on. Well, it's the explosion underwater. Oh, yeah. Would it be. Would it be. Would the shockwaves be bigger or smaller? Well, the damage would be greater, really, caused by the shockwave, because I saw it on an episode of Myth Busters, okay. And they tested it at length. And because the water is more dense, then I think the energy is carried, you know, harder. There's a very good, very good use of scientific lingo there, Oliver. That's me. And they also tested that you could reduce the effect. So it's very dangerous. You mustn't be near an explosion in the water. Good advice there. But if you can, to reduce the effect, if, you know, if it's inevitable, if you lie as flat as you can and as close to the surface of the water, then you can almost escape entirely. The effects of the. You'd sort of get waved, you'd go up and down, but you wouldn't get blown, so the body would. It's something to do with the way that the wave from the explosion dissipates. Off the top of my head, the speed of sound in water is about 1480 2 meters/second but in air, of course, it's just 332 meters of second. So if you think of sound as another pressure wave that completely, it's almost four times, four times more powerful in water than it is in air. Yeah, yeah. No, it's very, very dangerous. Well, I bet you didn't think you were going to end up with a mystery. Our round of applause when you decided to watch Mythbusters that night. I didn't. I didn't know. I have enough. A quick suggestion as well about deja vu. No, you don't. No, no, no, no. This often happens. You've just got a bit. You got. You got a bit. Of course, I've got away from myself. No. Yeah. You just got a bit giddy then with the excitement of getting over the line with your first round of applause. Let's. Let's just be grateful. Oliver RAF's in West Norwood. Question or answer, Rafael? It's an answer, James. Bring it on. It's about the lions and the greek symbols, the Greeks using them. Oh, yes. Basically, there were lots of lions in the Near east. The Egyptians even used to mummify them. They used to breed them as well, because they, although they worship them, they hunted them to extinction. And the Greeks had lots of trading posts in the Near east, and so it would have been pre Alexander the Great as well. I'm sure when he conquered that part of the world, he brought that symbol over as a symbol of power, but it would have been pre him as well. So they would have had contact with lions, and because they were so unusual, because they were the only big cats in that kind of area, that's why they were used them as symbols. They're symbols of power and strength. Qualifications, RAF? I just love greek history. The Persians used to hunt them as well. They used to import them into their game parks and hunt them. They really like the sort of hunger games, but with. With lions rather than humans. Yeah. Xerxes, was that. That's how they used to prove themselves, some of the younger ones, by, you know, killing lions. It's a fairly reliable way of proving your bravery, isn't it? Or your facility with a. With a spear or a bow. That's a beautiful answer. And it means that Stella's question was actually a little more sophisticated than we originally credited it with being. Yeah, it was. It was a lovely question. And it's earned you this. The Savaloy thing seems to have gone a bit. A bit pear shaped, if you pardon the sort of punishment. I don't. I mean, is that what I need to know now? We've only got five minutes left. Is there any way you know for certain? You can't ever buy savaloys. Okay, zero. 345-606-0973 because we thought there was a north south divide on the Savaloy, but there isn't. I think it was Susanna in Inverness who. You got them up there? So then we began, and we definitely got them in South Shields and Newcastle. We know that they're in Peterborough, East Anglia. So we're just wondering now, maybe the Saveloy is an east west thing. So we know that you get it on the east coast, in the Midlands. Can you get them in? What's not. No, but Manchester's west, you get Savlo. Do you get Savoys in? Is it a west? You get Savoys in Liverpool. Is what? Liverpool and Cornwall? That's what we need to know. Just tuned in. You're wondering what's going on. Just trust me on this. It's important. Dominic is in Camberwell. Question or answer, Dominic. Question, please, James. Carry on. It's speeds on old record players 33, 45 and 78. I just wonder. 33 plus 45 equals 78. Is there a technical reason for that or is that just a complete coincidence? It's been a great mystery. I can't believe that that would just happen by accident. It's got to be a gearing in the. In the machine. You know, that's such a coincidence. You can't. That can't just be allowed to happen, can it? So I'm surprised at the strength of feeling, Dominic, that I'm picking up from you on this. Well, I'm worried, James, because I think this knowledge is going to be lost. People that know the answer to this are going to die soon, and it's not going to be on the Internet. So, I mean, it's an old record player that even has the 78 revolutions per minute, isn't it? Well, I'm speaking for my parents, obviously. Yes. 33 and 45. Everybody knows. But 778. Is it. Is it a coincidence that the two add up? It can't be a coincidence. Well, that's just. But that's crazy. I mean, that can't be allowed to happen, can it? I don't know. I'm not sure who's going to be able to answer this question. Record player, engineer or something like that. But that's what I'm worried about. The people that the answer are dying out, they're not going to be around for much longer. Yeah, exactly. All right. Is it. So that is the question. Is it a coincidence on a record player that the three speeds are mathematically related in that if you add two of them together, you get the third one? That's it. Yeah. All right. I'll see what I can do. Lisa is in Wembley. Lisa, question or answer? I've got an answer. All right. Yes. Come on. Saveloy. Pardon? Saveloy. What? Where do you get Savroloy? Oh, yes. Yes. I work in a fish and chip shop. So it's at Wembley park station. Oh, yeah. Yes, we still do Savannah. Okay, how much do they cost? It's only 110. One pound ten for a savelor. Yes. Yes. It's still very cheap. Well, I'd probably want chips with it. So I'll be getting. Looking at two pounds 50, would I, for the whole shebang. Salt and vinegar. So you've rung me up to tell me that you sell saveloys in Wembley park? Yes. See, what I was really trying to find out is whether you don't. Where you can't buy. Savaloys. Where you can't buy. Yeah. Oh, so alchemistic. That's. No, I mean, I'm always happy to talk about Savaloys, Lisa, especially on election day. Do you know what's in a savroloy? Um, well, it's pork, mainly. Pork? Yes. And why can't you fry them? Oh, I think there are not many fish and chip shops around in town nowadays. No. Why can't you fry them? Not buy them. Fry them? Yes. Because you could get in a stew in the supermarket. But there are not many fish and chip shops around town, so that's why it's quite different. I think we're having completely different conversations. What is your fish and chip shop called Lisa. Walk and roll. Pardon? Walk and roll. Walk and roll, yes. So it's not actually official. It's a Chinese. But you do. You do chinese and fish and chips combined. Oh, that's fantastic. Yes. Yes. You could still get chinese sticky with it. So you can. If you don't fancy a savalur, you could have a sweet and sour or some sort of kung po chicken or something like that. Yeah. Do you know, I've never been to Wembley park, but I think. I think I'm gonna go now. Yes. I'm gonna come and see you for a Savaloy to see you. Thank you. I'm only there on a Tuesday, though. Thank God you told me that, Lisa. So a Tuesday soon. A Tuesday soon. I'll see you in rock and roll. Yes, yes. Love to meet you first, Avalon. Oh, thank you. That is it for another, well, half a decade, actually. In terms of the electoral rules that we've been observing today, we're still not entirely clear on whether or not saphaloids are unavailable anywhere. But my God, we know where they are available and we also know when. That's it for another day. Sheila Fogarty will be up next on LBC. You're doing a shift, aren't you? You'll be here all night. I'm here for the next 3 hours and then I'm having a bit of Kipling and I'm a great power napper. And then you're back. I mean, from ten until 05:00 a.m.. Yeah. At which point Nick Ferrari takes over. Yeah, I. Meanwhile, I'm just doing my normal shift. You lazy workshy savaloy. Eating. I don't know what you mean. Surrender monkey. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from ten. This is LBC. I'm off to walk and roll. Here's Sheila Fogarty. I was about to say, you know, you have to do that. You have to take a Tuesday off. I'll come with you. Sounds great. That food. Now, as we.