Do ducks know how many ducklings they have?

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC four minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we turn our attention next to the weekly fun and frolic that is mystery hour. Or is it, what's it supposed to be today? If you were listening to Steve Allen earlier on the program, is it toy hour or something, or magical hour? I don't know. Bless his little cotton socks to let him have his fun. I should probably explain how this bit works. It's very hard to get through, so be patient. Don't try just yet, because people who already know what they're doing have piled in on a grand scale. As always happens. Give it about six minutes and then we'll have some gaps on the switch wall because we have to, at this point in proceedings, very politely tell some people ringing in the question they want to ask is either unsuitable or just pants. So don't be offended when you're politely invited to be on your way. This is the radio equivalent of those newspaper magazine features where a reader will write in with a mystery, not like a sort of murder mystery, just why do we do that type mystery, where does that come from? What's the origin of this? Where does that, why, who? Where? When? Why? What happened? What resulted? Wherefore, whence? Even the occasional wither? And somebody else then weeks later writes in with an answer, and then they have a little argument in the letters pages and finally they might get a conclusion. You'll get your conclusion today. If you ring in with a decent question, someone else listening will know the answer and they will ring in with the answer. And that is pretty much how it works. There's not a great deal else to add. Ways of working out in advance whether your question is likely to get biffed. Probably. If it's boring, it will be, but I appreciate that you probably don't think that it's boring if you're already thinking of bringing in. So ask yourself how many people are likely to be interested in the answer once they've heard the question, and then you might get a better idea of whether it will pass the interest threshold. And the other one is repetition, which is more my problem than yours. But you can go to LBC dot co dot UK and have a look at the mystery hour archive, which is great fun anyway, even if you don't want to interfere with your listening pleasure today, just put it on your list of things to do when you've got a few minutes to kill or an hour or two to kill. It's a really good read. There's a lot of fun and mischief on there, so it also provides you with an opportunity to see whether or not your question has been asked. Is that it? Normally, I issue a guarantee that there'll be at least one laugh out loud moment, but many of you have been kind enough to suggest you've already had it this morning. I don't know whether that's linked to the full moon that was in the air last night, but I'll take half of the credit for anyone who's had a laugh out loud moment during this morning's phone in the other area in which you probably well advised to avoid. The question is if it's to do with motoring. I could be wrong on that. I find it boring. Most people find it. It's a little bit like, you know, that, oh, how many miles you get to the gate? No offense, I appreciate. Lots of people love to talk about that. What's the wife driving Vauxhall? No, I don't. And it's kind of my game. I did invent it, sort of. 1206 is the time. Shall we get things up and running? You're not allowed to look anything up either, as well. If you're new to this, you can only answer a question if you already know the answer. Even if you know it just from watching telly last night, it still counts. You don't have to be the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, although he'll probably ring in as well. He does most weeks. It's just knowledge education. In the age of the search engine, we invented mystery hour as a way of just keeping knowledge alive, rather than. Because my kids can take, you know, search engines into exams in the future. Kids, 1618 year olds. Now the notion of accruing knowledge is under threat, and I think that's a shame. 1207 is the time. Let's go to Streatham. Lawrence, is there. Lawrence, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Why is it that so many sports trophies, and I guess probably other trophies too, are in the shape of big cups? Why would that. That's actually a really good question, isn't it? I thought so, because I'm just working on that. Well, of course they are. They always have been. But you're. You're not. That's not good enough. That's like saying because I say so. Exactly. Why cut? Well, I presumably summon champagne would be put in it. They'd all have a swig of something after they won or something like that. You're not going to let me speculate my way to a round of applause on this one, are you, Lawrence? I can tell. No, I'd rather you didn't know, being the first question. Yeah, all right, mate. Flipping out. Why cups? Why? Because you don't have to. It could be a shield or it could be. It could be a plate, it could be anything. But cups. Cups, routinely it's a model of someone, a sportsman, doing the sport that they're doing. You get that as well. You get. Might get a golfer on top of a cup. But why cups? For trophies. Why? Where does it begin? I love that question. That's a really nice question. Thank you. You're quite welcome, James. Good man. There you go. Quid pro quo. Ruth is in West Hampstead. Ruth, question or answer? I have got a question. Please carry on. So I look after a couple of children, two nine year olds, and we have a kitty of money. Oh, yes, that we use, you know, kind of for expenses. And the little boy said to me this morning, says, ruby, what's a kitty? How did it get the name Kitty? I said, I have no clue. He said, please, couldn't call James O'Brien. He did not say, stop creeping. He never said that. Don't be ridiculous. No, he did. I talk about you all the time. He loves. He loves you little cops. He rather talked politics with you. Really? Well, I look forward to it. You can go on at halftime. So why do we call a kitty a kitty? Yeah, why is it a kitty? I like that. And I don't know, actually, I'm not even going to be. If it had a latin route or something like that, I'd have a go at it. But there's nothing there. Why is a kitty a kitty? A piggy bank kitty. No, no. You're on. Okay. Well played. What's. What's the lad's name? Thank you. Sorry, what's the lad's name? Daniel. Tell Daniel I send him my very best regards. All right? Wonderful. You'll make his day. Thank you. He might accuse you of lying. It's nine minutes after twelve. If you have to play the podcast, Jordan's in Liverpool. Jordan, question or answer? Question, please carry on, mate. Is there an ergonomic reason? Ergonomic? Ergonomic, mate. It's only 12:10 no, no, that's what we're going with. Is there an ergonomic reason why the numbers on my telephone are the opposite way around to the numbers on the calculator or on my keyboard. There is actually. Oh, and there is some dispute over this, so I'm going to go definitive because I've dealt with this before and I can remember the answer, but it's not. There are other theories as well, but this is, this is kind of like the, the most popular theory. Yeah, go on. So if you look at your calculator, it's got 789 across the top row, right? Yeah. And before touch tone phones were invented, when it was all click phones, remember click, click, click, click, click. Yeah. So they started inventing touch tone phones in about the seventies or the eighties, and people who were using calculators more than computer keyboards, because we didn't really have computer keyboards then, but they were so quick at the way the pad was laid out that they were quicker than the touch time phone technology could keep up with. So one way of slowing down the speed at which people operated these new keypads was to turn it upside down. So they weren't. Have you ever seen anyone touch type? My wife can do, she can type with her eyes shut. She just gets her fingers laid out in a certain way on the pad and she can type on the whole computer keyboard at a million miles an hour. Have you seen that? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So they could do that with the number bits. The accountants, the kind of statisticians, the people, the, you know, the bookkeepers, they'd be like this. I'm going to do your sound effect now, Jordan, just for you. Are you ready? They were like that. My screen's gone absolutely nuts. And in order to slow them down, when they invented the touch tone phone, because if they typed in a phone number that quickly, it wouldn't, it wouldn't process in time. They just swipped it. That's, that's. That's my favorite theory. There are other theories. Yeah, no, I'll. I'll accept that now. I'm happy with that. Good man. Thank you. Great stuff. Thank you, Jordan. Claire is in Banbury. Claire, question or answer? Question. Please carry on. I wear glasses. My husband wears glasses and my daughter wears glasses. Yes. What would happen if we were in a caveman? In the caveman times, we wouldn't be able to hunt for food. So has bad eyesight always been around, or have we evolved into having bad eyesight? And what did cavemen do before they could wear glasses? I don't know that cavemen are there. I mean, I don't know that cavemen should be the historical starting point for this, given that, you know, spectacles would have been quite far down the evolutionary process, or wouldn't they? I mean, you could die of a rotten tooth. Yes, but would they be able to hunt? Well, no, I don't. I mean, I don't. I think you'd just. I mean, there's no easy way to break this to you, but your family would be dead by tea time. But how would we. What would other hunt for us? Well, if you were lucky, but then you'd have to be providing some sort of service back at the cave that no one else could provide. And this is a family program. I don't think we want to go there at this point in proceedings. Claire. So what did we do before glasses were invented? Just die early. Yeah. I mean, the earlier, but the further back you go, the more likely it would actually be to threaten your life. But, you know, it might seem unfashionable at the moment in the british political climate, but you would also rely upon your fellow citizens to look after you. But I don't think there's a historical. I mean, I'll put it on the board. Before spectacles were invented, what did people with bad eyesight do? Is the question, isn't it? It is, but I think the answer is squint, generally. I mean, the first pair of spectacles I was reading about, I think they might have had some in Egypt. It's certainly just a simple magnifier, but otherwise. No, you're on your own, mate. I'd be dead. That's the beauty of glass. You got to be a certain age to appreciate how brilliant that was. It used to be the slogan of british gas, which is why I dropped my usual long r and went instead for the. Ah, that's the beauty of glass. Let's find out what happened. Cavemen in spectacles, that's not going to happen. They couldn't even work out pants. They're not going to move on to spectacles. But I like the question. If it has an answer that's more interesting than the one I've already provided, then please ring me and provide it. Zero, 345-606-0973 Vivek's and Abbott's Langley. Vivek, question or answer? So, question, please. James. All right, mate, cheer up. The. I was on holiday recently in Indonesia, and the people there said, time moves much more slowly here than it does in your european countries. So it got me thinking. Does time around the equator actually move that bit slower? Than where we are. And if you think about the shape of the earth, it's possible. And. But I thought. No, I'm going to ring James. Are you. Are you. Are you high? No, I'm quite seated. That my work. What do you mean? Do you mean that if you've got a watch on and you go to somewhere near the equator, it would move. The second hand would move at a different speed. It probably wouldn't be like seconds. It could be fractions of a second here. But. But time. Time and motion are two separate things. They're not motion, physically, time. Yeah, but that's what I mean. So, your proximity to the equator will influence the relationship between you and the rotation of the planet. But why would it influence time? And, you know, forgive me, Vivek, because I'm pretty sure you know this, but I need to double check. When they told you that time moves slower in Indonesia, that just meant it was a more relaxed lifestyle. Yeah, I knew that. Yeah, I knew you knew that. I just had to double check, because you've heard some of the calls today. It was a full moon last night. And anything can happen on the day after a full moon. Precisely. Hence the strange question. Hence this question. Is it. Is it possible that even if it's a fraction of a second, is it possible. So you're asking whether time is constant, what relate in relation to this earth? Yeah, yeah. Well, in relation to anything, is time constant? If the answer is yes, then your answer is no. Yeah. All right. So does time move slightly slower when you're near the equator? Yeah. Right, you're on. Yeah, okay. You know what happens when I take the Mickey out of someone for asking a daft question, don't you? It's not a daft question. That's right. That's what usually happens. It turns out not to be a daft question, and all I've done is highlight my own ignorance, my own bovine arrogance. What? You are a fan. I'm a big fan of yours, so I want to keep you that way. All right? Okay. I'll leave it there, then, mate. Let's wait and see. Let's see what the mob make of your question. 1216, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Yeah, okay, so Vivek's question might be quite good. It might involve Einstein and all sorts. I told you, if I took the Mickey out of him, it turned out that I would be the one who ended up looking like a prune. But the night is young. We shall see. Mystery house underway. Why do so many sporting trophies and other trophies. Why cups? Trophies? I like that question. Think about it. Because there's no obvious answer. Of course they are. They always have been. But why? At my school, the debating cup, the drama cup, everything was a cup. Why a cup? Why did cups and trophies become almost interchangeable? And when. Why do we call a sort of cash reserve a kitty? What's the origin of the word kitty in the context of, you know, a rainy day fund? What happened to people with poor eyesight before spectacles were invented? I don't know that there'll be a definitive answer to that, so feel free to have a bit of a riff. And does time slow down when you're nearer to the equator? 21 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to mystery air with me, James O'Brien. Let's crack on. Barney is in Paris. Barney, question or answer? I can't do that in French. Thank you. It might be a bit of a boring one, but I'll try anyway. Go on. You're through. Thank you. So, in England, books, when you're looking at the front cover, the title goes down the spine, whereas in France it's the opposite. It goes up the span. And I was wondering if anyone knew the answer for that. And it's not just books, it's also DVD's and things like this, so it goes in a different direction. I think we're the same as Americans, aren't we, on that? But I think German is the same as French as well, isn't it? Okay. I have no idea. I've never been to Germany, sir. Fair enough. No. Well, you're nearer than I am. I'll try and get you an answer. So you put the book upright on a bookshelf and the french books and the english books have the text will be back to back. They won't be facing in the same direction. Yeah, exactly. Yep. Okay. I like that. So, book spines. Why are french and british spines designed differently? I try and get you an answer. It'll probably just be a historical explanation, won't it? A convention. But I like it. It's confusing. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can answer Barney's questions about books. Is there nothing good on french radio, Barney? Or do you just not speak at a lingo? I think we've lost him. Say again? I listen to a few french podcasts, but that's about it. Good man. My french is not amazing. It's not going to get much better listening to me 23 minutes after twelve is the time. Nomdan Shan. Richard is in Cumbria. Richard, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Rich. Whereabouts in Cumbria? We can do better than that. It's a national radio station. You're gonna like this. I'll tell you what, this is the highlight of my life, this. I'm actually from Barrel Inferno. Switch. I started listening to LBC over the last year or so and I found out that Nick Ferrari's mother was a nursing Barrow Inferno. Look at that. Flipping out. They got a plaque up yet? They should be. I know they should. How did you find that out? Did he say so on the. On his show? He said so on one of his shows. Oh, she was in Leicester. But that's a lovely touch. There you go. You're practically LBC family. Have you rung in with a question or an answer? I run in with an answer. Bring it on. The reason cups are associated with sport events or trophies generally. It was to do with classical times and pagan religions. When people were involved in ancient sports, they'd make an offering to their gods and the animals that they've sacrificed. Some cases they would drink their blood in order to take on the characteristics of those animals to help them in their. In their spotted endeavors. So it goes back to sacrifice, it goes back to animal sacrifices to pagan gods. And taking all the characteristics and what your qualifications, Richard? How do you know this? I am sure I've watched it on a BBC for documentary or something like that. I should have mentioned the enemy there. That's right. That's not the enemy. It's one of my other income streams, mate. Don't be shy. How about this for another? Another? I just want to throw it in there. The Premier League trophy. Now it has a lion on one handle and a lion on the other handle and then there's the crown on the top of it. The idea is, when it's picked up, the captain of that team is the third lion. So it's the three lions. Yeah. All right, fill your boots. Great work, Richard. Thank you very much. I don't know how you did that. I should probably take lessons from you because you managed there to add extra information without sounding like a show off, which is something I've spoken 45 years trying to master, but I'm not even close. I'm northern. We're very modest. Well, yeah, you might. You could be onto something there. I need to sort of change my accent back to my dad's. 25 minutes after twelve is the time Tommy is in Westminster. Tommy, question or answer? Hi. Answer. James. Come on in. It's about time and where you are. So time slows down as you approach. As you approach the speed of light. That means if you are at the top of the shard, you're going faster than if you're at the bottom of the shard. And you will experience time differently if you extend that top of the shard thing to the distance from the center of the Earth, because the planet is sort of gumpy, not. It's like a squashed ball rather than a perfectly spherical ball. It's slightly ovoid if you're on the. It's not quite the right word, but I know what you mean. Yeah, yeah. You're closer to the. It's toroidal if you. If you're near the genius hour, go on. Toroidal if you're near the equator and you're going faster than you are if you are further north or south. So it does affect. So time does. So time does move. Time moves depending on how fast you're going. And they put a famous experiment, they put special clocks in the nose of the space shuttle. Yes. And because that went dead fast one, by the time it got back to Earth, it showed a. Showed a difference in time when it returned. Oh, man alive. I'm a bit confused, but you're clearly correct. What are your qualifications? It's a medical condition. I'm an autistic savant and I know far too much about everything. I don't know that I need to do this, but I do have the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton chomping at the bit on the other to answer the same question. I'm just going to let him mark your answer. Tommy, is that all right? Perfect. Can't stay there. Professor Hal, good afternoon. Hello, Jane. Would you like to give Tommy a viva? I would, but I'd also like to point out that, yet again, you were scathing about a question. And yet again, you've come on stuck, haven't you, mate? Yeah. Yeah. Right. It's not only speed, though, it's also gravity. Right. And by astonishing coincidence, two days ago, Richard Feynman, the famous physicist who was also the chap that did the investigation into the crash of the challenger, he was proved, right, that the inside of the earth is about, and I think it was three years, because I read the article two days ago. So it's. Technically. It's not looking up three years younger than the outside, because there's less gravity at the core and the toroidal shape of the earth. As your other answerer has correctly pointed out, tells us there will be a tiny, tiny difference. And this has been proved time and time again. Your. Your perception of time changes with both speed and with gravity. Apropos film interstellar, which was actually surprisingly correct. So who gets the applause? I'm happy to share. You're not going to let Tommy have it all? You are mean. I'm going to give it all to Tommy because you couldn't resist having a little dig at me, despite the fact that I've done all that self deprecation already. So this is all for you, Tommy. Rock on, mate. It's coming up to 1230. Listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What would Tommy's call of go? Just. Just an accruing of knowledge. And I was. Yeah, embarrassed. Vivek, mate, the love is still in the room. You win, I lose. See, I can admit it. It's coming up to 12:30 more questions that still need answers. The cups and the trophies. We've done origins of kitty. Why do we call it a kitty? That thing where we keep our money. What happened to people with poor eyesight before spectacles were invented? Presumably it could be, if you go back far enough to really primitive times, it could be a matter of life and death. And why do french and english book spines go in different directions? Why are they written in the opposite way around? In France, a few of you are seeing a freudian slip on the question about the difference between french and british spines, but that's because you're seeing everything through the lens of Brexit these days. It's coming up to 12:30 is the number you need if you can answer any of those questions, or indeed, if you've got one of your own to ask. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1233 is the time. And so the madness continues. Questions still in need of answers I reminded you of shortly before the news. Let's get a few more on the board, shall we? I'll remind you of the phone number as soon as I have a phone line free. Which on Thursdays is. Well, they're even rarer than they are the rest of the. Actually. Is that still true, Axel? Things are so busy now on the switchboard. Can we still say that mystery hour is by far the busiest hour of the week? I think we will anyway, because it's like a slogan. Laura is in Barnet. Laura, question or answer? It's a question, please. I have a ten week old baby and so we're busy sterilizing and keeping things clean. For her, because babies don't have an advanced immune system, so we're doing our best to avoid contact with germs. And then I noticed that she doesn't have nasal hairs, despite these hairs being a filter for adults to prevent infections, etcetera. So my question is, why don't babies have these nasal hairs? Yeah. Is that a different question from. I mean, some babies don't have any hair at all. Some have a little bit on their head. But as a human gets older, they start sprouting hair in the most unlikely of places. And of course, prior to middle age, they grow hairs in the more traditional places. Is nasal hair particularly mysterious? Well, I just think it sort of. It's used for one of our first lines of defense. Yeah, but their little baby nostrils are so tiny, if they had nostril hair or anything like mine, they wouldn't be able to breathe. Well, I know that the shape of their nostrils are flared so that they can breathe, particularly when breastfeeding. I think oxygen. Oxygen is more important than germ repulsion. Why am I trying to answer this, Laura? I don't know, but germs aren't that big, so, I mean, I don't know. It's a very astute observation that you have made there. Germs indeed are not that big, but. But nostril baby nostrils are nonetheless very small. I think that's the. I think that's my answer. But you're not going to accept that. You'd be mad if you did. Yeah, sorry. Babies don't have noses. Like I said, nostrils are so teeny tuny tuny. They wouldn't be able to breathe if they had big hairy nostrils. Exactly. I'm not quite sure what happened then, Laura. They'd look strange if they did have them. I don't really want her to have them. But, you know, the big mystery for me, and I'll share this with you because no one else is listening, is I wish I could stop growing hair out of my nose and my ears and somehow grow the same hair on my head. That would be, for me, deliverance and joy. Anyway, I'll try and get you an answer. Why don't babies have nasal hair? Thank you very much. You're very welcome. And congratulations. How you find, is it your first? It is, yes. Have you slept much last ten weeks? I have, yeah. I think we hit the jackpot with her, actually. She's pretty good. Yeah. I love you being a mummy. I bet. And the smell in the house at the moment is gorgeous. That sort of weird milky, skinny smell. Yes, absolutely. Maybe that's why it is, so she can smell it better. You could be on to something that. So she can bond with her mother according to scent. Because back in the olden days, before spectacles. I. Leave it there. Laura, you're on. I'll try and get you. Let's get an answer to that. Why don't babies have nasal hair? Zero. 345-606-0973 given that, as Laura explained, it plays such an important role in the. In the general health of a human. Alfie is in Sid cup. Alfie. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on, mate. I think you're not gonna like this one. But when we get cold and shiver. Yeah. Why do our nipples go hard? I think that's just you. That's not just me. How do you know? I've taken a public survey. How many nipples were involved in your server? A handful. Was that deliberate? Yeah. Well round for well played. I think the answer is goose pumps, isn't it? It's when you get cold. You know, when you get goosebumps, it makes the hairs on your body stand up and that provides some form of insulation against the cold. It stops you. It stops the warmth leaving your body quite as quickly as it does when. When you haven't got all your follicles erect, if you pardon the expression. And I think the nipple is just the most prominent manifestation of that physical phenomenon. Boom. I'll get out. I don't know. What else is it going to be? Well, that's what cooled up. There's a rush of blood to the surface of your skin that's designed to help you keep warm when you're cold. And that involves not only goosebumps sort of popping up, but also nipples hardening. Forget the bit about blood, but the rest of it's true. You want me to leave this on the book? Yeah, you know. No, no, no. If it's gonna stay on there, stand on there. All right, then. Flipping it. I might take that round of applause back, Alfie, if you're not careful. No, I appreciate that. There you go. A little bit of gratitude goes a long way. Why do Alfie's nipples get hard when he's cold? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need baby's nasal hair and Alfie's nipples. Barry is in Alton in Hampshire. Barry, question or answer? Yes, an answer. James. Carry on. Barry, it's your one regarding kitties. Why do we call it a kitty? Apparently it comes from the old version of cockney rhyming slang for hat. And it goes back to in the days from when you could gamble in a pub without being frog mashed out. I used to put a hat in the middle of the table and you throw your money in the kitty rhyming saying. As in tit for. No, this came before tit for. This is what we questioned. Kitty cat. Right. Kitty cat, was it? Yeah, kitty cat hat. Yep. That's what. That's the one I've got for you. Where did you get that from? Qualification. We did a ghostwalk and the guide was telling us about. I like it. The reason why this pub was haunted by a ghost was he'd been murdered over a gambling debt. And it came out during that story. Kitty cat hat. Where was the ghost tour? It was around the city. London. I like a ghost tour. I'm gonna give you. I like that kitty cat hat. Round of applause. A suggestion already, Barry, on Twitter, that you look that up, but I'm gonna take you at face value and let you keep that. Why are you saying that? So many cynics on social media. Daniel's in Kingston. Daniel, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Go on then. Okay, so how do ducks know how many chicks they have? Because assumedly they can't count and they don't have language, they can't really name them. So, you know, as they're going along their daily lives and they've got all their ducks following with them, how do they turn around and check that they've got them all with them? Why can't they count? Well, they can't speak English, they can't count. 12345. Processing numbers in a different way. Yeah, mostly. I mean, it just must be, mustn't it? It must just know that I've got, you know, quack and where's e? And then they just, they just wait for them all to appear. Well, that's the assumption. Right, but I mean, I don't. I'm not a psychologist on ducks. I wouldn't be. No one is, mate. I don't know who's going to be qualified to answer your question. How do ducks know how many ducklings they've got? Well, we can hope, we can dream and that's the point of mystery. How is it, James? I like you, mate. Yeah, it is. We can hope and we can dream, but sometimes, you know, dreams don't come true. I've got Goslings around my way at the moment. Got a lot of goslings. Oh, yeah, same principle and signets you see them and they know. Because, sadly, with foxes and predation, quite often when you. When you see the first clutch in spring, you come back a week later and it's diminished slightly. But. But they know. They know. They know to wait, don't they, until all the little ones have jumped into the water, even if you can't see the other little one. Could be. No. I don't know. Why. Why am I trying to work this one out? I never know. I never know. I'll try and find out for you. But, I mean, short of a duck ringing in, I don't know who's going to be able to tell the ducks. Ducks. Okay. How do ducks know how many ducklings they have? How did. How do ducks count? Ducklings. Really? Indeed. Okay, and we may need a slightly great question. Thank you, Daniel. 1241 is the time. You know, some weeks, if I'm a bit tired, I'm not. This week, actually, I'm full of beans, I think I was wondering, how long can we keep mystery going for? So, it was supposed to last for about a month when we first. I think it was just a way of filling in an hour one Thursday when there was an election. Because you weren't allowed to talk about the election on the Thursday. It's been going for years still, every single week. Quality, quality, quality. Bernice. There you go. Presses pressures on now. Bernice is in. Layton. Question or answer? Bernice. Question. Carry on. Why don't you have bones in your ears? Well, nobody does. Well, I know. You pick it on me. Nobody have it. Well, you pick it. Oh, no. So you thought. You don't just mean me in my ears. No, no. Everybody. Why don't you have bones in your ears? I don't know. You tell me. Because it would. Because they're. Because they need to be all, um. All squidgy. So. Because, you know when you sort of get your head caught between railings and things like that. Yeah. If you didn't. If you had a bone in your ear, you'd break it. You wouldn't be able to get your head into tight places, Bernice. No, but you can hear, or to hear all your body, all the part of your body have bones? Well, no. No, it doesn't. Where else hasn't got bones? I can't answer that question. You got to tell me. I'm not drawing you a picture, Bernice. That's a mystery type. So you're going to tell me what the mystery is. I promise you that they're a body. You've got some quite prominent body parts. Not doing this. It's a fat. You have got prominent body parts, as have I, that do not contain any bones, not just ears. Well, your boobs. Imagine if they did have bones in them. Well, I'm just curious. Well, you don't need a bone in your ear. You don't need a bone in your ears. Probably the answer, but I'll see if there's a more complicated evolutionary explanation. I think we need one. Obviously you don't need one, you silly woman. Otherwise we'd have what? Your ears. What? Can you hear me? Me now? Can you hear me now? So you don't need bones in your ears then, do you? Because you don't need it. Of course I need it. You, obviously. How can you tell me that you need bones in your ears while you are using your boneless ears to listen to me? You need to solve this mystery. There must be a reason why we don't have it and you're not telling me the reason. Well, all right, I put it on the list. Why don't we have bones in Arias? Quick. Call me now, otherwise Bernice is gonna. Is gonna be nuts. Oh. 304 5606-0973 Kevin is in Gillingham. Kevin. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Kevin. It's about being short sighted. And what do you. I can't go back to the caveman days. No, of course not. Say roman or norman times. Oh, yeah. People that were short sighted then would do things like etching, needlework, masonry, that type of thing. And I only asked no, this question because I'm short sighted. And I asked my sister, who's an archaeologist down in Canterbury. Oh, yeah. And I said, jack, what would happen? You know, like, if I was short sighted, go back to norman times, I'd be popped off because I'm six foot three. I'd be a big target. And she said, well, you wouldn't actually be in the, you know, fighting. You'd be at the back there making arrows or Fletcher or. So they would find a way for you to contribute that didn't. That accommodated your short sightedness. And if you were. If you were completely blind. Not. I'm not being in any way glib. That. That explains why blind people in the modern day do jobs like. It's a bit of a cliche, but I've met three. So. Piano tuners. Yeah. You find a job that allows you to accommodate your. Your. Your condition. Yeah. Because I know that I'm quite short sighted and if you do very close work, if I haven't got my contacts and I can do very, very fine, close work. Yeah. So they'll find something you can do. Yeah, I like it. And qualifications. My sister's an architect called Jack. Archaeologist. Archaeology. Archaeologist. Where'd he get architect from? I'm glad you corrected me. I was testing you there to see if your story was true. That was a deliberate, deliberate little psychological trick there. Yeah. Round of applause for Kevin. Thank you. But half of that's for Jack. Don't chuckle like that. Half of it's for Jack. Okay, I'll pass it on. Thank you very much. It's 1246, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 1250 is the time. Bernice obviously doesn't want to know about the tiny little bones that are inside your ear. She wants. She wants to know why the big lumps of gristle on the outside of your head don't have any bones in them. Give me a call if you can answer that. Why don't babies have nasal hair? How do ducks know how many ducklings they've got? Why do french and english books have their spines written in opposite directions? And why do our nipples go hard when it's cold? Moshe is in Barnett. Moshe, what would you like to say? Because when the baby would be born, would break when it came out and we'd be able to sit. Is that. Is that. We got a comedian on there. What. What question are you answering, mate? The question about the ears and the bone. Yes, go on. Ah, so when you're giving birth. So I was kind of right when I said you can't stick your head in tight places, but you've gone gynological on me. Yeah. Go give him a round of applause. Hang on. What are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? Common sense. Well, then you can't have it. What? You can't have it because, I mean, because I did common sense. I need quality also, you know, my youngest came out almost reclining with her elbow behind her head. It was quite uncomfortable for misses O'Brien, but I mean, every bone in the body theoretically could break while you have been giving birth. I don't. I don't think I'm going to give you that, actually. Oh, no. 1252, Matt is in leatherhead. Matt, what would you like? Question or answer? Oh, hello, James. It's a question, please. I'm just going to get down, down the ladder now. 1 second. What are you doing? What are you doing? Cleaning windows or you're just on a site? I'm painting the side of a house. Paint the side of house. Carry on down by the seaside. Oh, lovely, lovely, lovely. And, and, uh, okay, so the question is, right, my wife got me a helium balloon on Valentine's day. Oh. And, um, it's a lovely one. Yeah. Emoji face with a little wink, cheeky wink and a smile. Yeah, you little tinker. And, uh, it's, um. It's still on my lounge ceiling. It's almost three months. It's the light. It's the Lionel Ritchie of ballutes. Is it? What? Why is that? Don't worry. If you. If I need to explain it, the joke's gone, mate. The moments passed. Dancing on the ceiling. It's all right. You had to be there. I think I know the answer to this. Really? Yeah. Okay. Is it. Is it foil? Yes. Yeah. So you're comparing its longevity to a non foil balloon, which will generally. You struggle to get a week out of it because we just did it for the youngest birthday party to blow up 50 of them out of one of those canisters. And. And traditional, what are they called? Latex balloons are the semi permeable. That membrane, even though it's, you know, it seems to be watertight, the air slowly is seeping out. But if you've got a foil one, it's pretty close to hermetically sealed that. Okay. You've introduced a lot of scientific words into that. Yeah. It's a good way of camouflaging that. I'm not supremely confident that my answer is correct. It feels good, though. Yeah. I was wondering if helium varied in strength. I don't think so. And it would. I mean, it would be to such a. In order to be lighter than air, you've got to have pretty much pure helium. I now am making it up. But you, you would have all balloons, wouldn't you? The whole batch, that whole canister. And it doesn't work like that. You've got a foil balloon, which means that the helium can't get out and the air can't get in to dilute the helium to make it normal, more like air, which means it will sink. Okay, gotcha, gotcha. So when you were blowing up your balloons for your daughter, did you inhale something? Yeah, you know I did. She's nine, mate. Of course I did. I've probably inhaled more than I put in the balloons in the end. Good man. It just never gets old either. I'm 45. I was rolling around on the floor like a lunatic, but I didn't let them do it. And they got quite crossing me because I don't know, I just felt maybe it's a bit unhealthy. Yeah, it's probably not advisable. Health. Safety. We shall see. Anyway, speaking of health and safety, watch yourself getting back up that ladder. Cheers. Round of applause for me. 1254. Aaron is in. Benfley. Aaron. Question or answer? We need more answers. What's going on? And we don't go on. What have you got? I'm letting you down. It's question. It's not your fault, mate. Don't worry, I'm gutting them so late. This is something that's probably me since I was a kid. Oh, I really want to know. That feeling when you suddenly drop either the other end of the road bridge or if you're on a ride, that feeling you get in the pit of your stomach where it sort of makes you make that. Yeah. Yeah. You'd like. Like your tummy turns over. Yeah. I've got an idea what it is. I want to know the scientific. What happens. What happens in the body with your organs or your blood or whatever that causes that feeling? What do you think is? I think it's something maybe doing the blood raising. But if that was the case, people in space would be constantly doubled over once. Yes. It can't be that water we've got. So can we free up some phone lines? Because poor old Aaron now you can see, you can feel the pain in his voice. He's looking at the clock. He's getting his question out there. He knows that the time is ticking away. Andrew Castle's chomping at the bit to get in here and present his radio programmer. We've got to sort Erin out, so free up some phone lines and try and get an answer. So you go over a humback bridge and you feel like you've left part of your tummy behind for a couple of seconds. That's what we're talking about. We've all been there, we've all done it. We all know it. What's going on? What's the physiological explanation? Kieran's in Ellesmere. Kieran, question or answer? We're going to an answer for you. Carry on, mate. Yeah. Yes. There's somebody called in early asking about nasal hairs and babies. This is true. Yes. Yeah, yeah. So, well, actually, they do. They just very, very microscopic. So you actually just can't see them with the naked eye qualifications? I'm a medical student. Yeah, I've got a guy. I can't argue with you, can I? You're a medical student, she's a mum, she's looking in a baby's nose. She can't see any hairs. You're saying because they're so thin that you wouldn't be able to see them anyway. Well, yeah. Is there any test you can do? I mean, not that you should be putting things up, babies noses, but is there any test you can do to. I guess. I guess I'm not on a first hand, but if you did take a sample of it, you know, you would be able to see some. But if you put the baby, the whole baby's head under a microscope and just angled it so that the nose was right under the lens. Yeah. Yeah, you'd see some. Hang on, I've got. Right, you're on. Round of applause. Good work, mate. I'm going to crack on. Chris is in Walton on terms. Question or answer? Come on. The balloons. I thought I'd done that. You've done it? Yeah. Well, what's your answer? It's because it's foil, right? Not latex. So the air doesn't. Doesn't seep out. It's because the latex balloon is small and when you have inflated, it has to be pressurized to inflate it and the foil balloon is not pressurized. Okay. So, yeah. Have half a round of applause because I was right, but you've given a slightly better explanation. That was only a quarter. Bad luck. Johnson, Stratford. Question or answer, John? Answer. Bring it on. It's your question about nipples. Oh, yeah. Why do they get hard in the cold? You were pretty much bang on. It's just the skin where the skin tenses up to lift the hair. Obviously, the skin on the nipple is tension to lift the small, tiny hairs on your nipple. And why does that. Why does lifting the hair on the skin keep you warmer? I have no idea. All right. Round of applause for John. That's actually half mine. Mary's in Worcester park. Question or answer, Mary? Answer. Carry on. It's got to be ducks or books. According to my calculations, ducks. Go on. My brother's garden backs onto the river. Yes. I asked him about this when it came up. Yes. And we think it is because mothers don't actually feed ducks like mammals, then they're not just looking after their own exclusively, and they will let others join them. And little baby ducks, ducklings will go to any mum that's got a clutch and looks affable and friendly. So they're not. The mum isn't checking, they're just. The ducklings are piling in and it's like a community thing. And also I asked. I asked him and he said he watches them because they up and down his garden all the time and mothers will. Will do that thing where it's a community. I'm gonna let Andrew Castle decide on this one. Does Mary get a round of applause? Andrew Castle totally in printing. Round of applause for Mary. Beautifully done. Well done. Peter is in Harrow. Question or answer, Peter. Quickly, quickly, quickly. It's an answer. Go on. It's an answer to the question about your. Why does your tummy turn over when you go over a bridge? You've got 6 seconds. Go. It's because they're floating in space. The organs inside are floating in space for that. For that. Until gravity kicks in. Yeah, I like that. Round of applause. What are you laughing at? You don't know about science. My wife is swelling. She's in the car right now. Very funny. That's it for me. For another. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten the next.