Can I ask a motoring question?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time. Speaking of guests, I did enjoy talking to Dorian, but the guest on my podcast this week is the actor Bill Nighy, which I heartily recommend. But the film that he was supposed to be talking about, although we got rather distracted by other matters, I think slightly to his irritation towards the end of the interview, I've got to be honest, it's out tomorrow and it's an absolute cracker. So if you're looking for something to do over the weekend, sometimes, always, Bill Nye's new movie is heartily recommended. Just like Dorian's book, there is currently a ballot underway for the conservative leadership. I think everyone who, anyone who gets fewer than 17 votes is out. There's a very slim chance we'll get the results of that before 01:00 today. So I'm just warning you in advance that this is one of those occasions where even mystery hour must buckle under the weight of the news agenda. If that, if that happens, if we get any results on that, then we'll cut to it happily. Until then, Mistria is upon us your weekly opportunity to get the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. It's not complicated. Switchboard is already full, so I won't inflict an interminable introduction upon you or crack on as quickly as we can. If you need any steers at all or you're thinking of ringing in, just have a little think. If your question's really, really obvious, if it's one of those hardy perennials of why do we do that? We've probably already dealt with it. And I just remind everybody involved in this chair, we only take one derivation of a word or phrase question a week. Otherwise, for reasons I don't fully understand, we become absolutely inundated with questions asking about the origins of words or phrases. So only one of those, if you've heard one already, don't ring in with another one. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I've got some phone lines free now. We've been doing our sorting wheat from chaff exercises. I've been burbling away, and if you ring in with an answer, that's it. You're not allowed to look anything up. That's all. That's pretty much the only rule. We used to have rules about dullness, but they seem to have dissolved over the years and sometimes a question that I would once have dismissed as dull turns out to be absolutely fascinating and or hilarious. So just, just that one about obviousness and repetition again is kind of my job, not yours. Should I just shut up and get on with it? Yeah, all right. Well, there's no need to be rude. Mustafa is in Stratford. Mustafa, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Yeah. So is there a difference? Like how memory works when it comes to memorizing numbers and memorizing text? And my question is rather linguistic really, if you don't mind. Go on. Yes, basically I've been speaking English for the last seven years now. I grew up speaking Pashto in dairy. Yes. Yeah. And it's really easy for me to memorize english text rather than numbers. I still can't. I mean, I find. Answered your own question then? No, but could there be a scientific reason for it? Definitely they could. You just want to know what it is. I spoke to a fellow earlier this week and the call really stayed with me. I think we were talking about inspirational teachers. It was last Friday, actually. Yeah, I listened to that. Oh, did you? So do you remember the guy that could cope with japanese or chinese characters but couldn't cope with letters and words because the glyphs in the chinese characters had a different operation on his brain and his dyslexia didn't kick in with those characters in the way that it did with words and for other people with numbers? Yeah, I remember that. Really, really interesting. And that's going to be part of the answer to your question. But I appreciate you want a slightly more complicated or detailed or scientific sounding answer than that. So does the brain deal differently? Does memory deal differently with words and numbers? I mean, why would you ever want to memorize numbers apart from PI? So basically I'm a network engineer in east London. Yeah, I do a lot with numbers and text. So when it comes to text I just memorize them in English. But the small numbers, bigger numbers, doesn't matter. A telephone number, I can't memorize them in English. I always memorize them in Derrick. Okay. It's quite a complicated question the more we go on. So I'll knock it on the head there and see if anyone wants to have a crack at answering it. And loosely speaking, does our memory operate differently with numbers and letters? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call. Eight minutes after twelve is the time Liam is in Rochester. Liam, question or answer? Hi James, I've got a question for you. Carry on, Liam, I'm wondering if chickens and other egg laying animals have the emotional intelligence to be sad when we take their eggs away. That's actually quite a nice question, that. Thank you. I've got a slightly, slightly different angle, but also, if a fly. If you've got. You're only allowed one, mate. You're only allowed one. It's about emotional intelligence. Very, very. No, but you've asked your question. This isn't a debate. The judge has ruled. My gavel is metaphorically banging on my desk. Mate, do chickens get sad when their eggs are taken away? They've been bred to lay an egg a day. They don't lay an egg a day. In the wild, they lay an egg and then they sit on it until it hatches. So I don't. I don't know if that's part of the answer. When I had chickens many moons ago, before a fox got them, when I had chickens and when they were laying, they would lay an egg a day. And I didn't detect any signs of sadness, Liam. No, but they don't tend to. How would you be able to tell? Well, I knew you'd say that, you see. And, I mean, it's got to be like. Well, then you've prepared an answer. I hope you know how it works, Liam. You know how it works. If you knew I was going to ask you that, then you've almost certainly prepared an answer. There's got to be a professor hal of the chicken world, isn't there? Like a professor chicken or something? There's got to be someone who knows. I don't know. Well, we'll find out. I mean, do chickens even have emotions? Presumably mine were pretty distressed when they got eaten by a fox. But at what point? Tiny little brains. We'll find out. The chickens get sad when we take their eggs. Zero. 345-606-0973 does the memory operate identically when working with numbers as it does when working with words and texts? Ten minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Daniel is in Stanmore. Daniel, question or answer? I've got a question. Please, James, carry on. The question is, why are cups given in sports titles and in tournaments? When you win across the world? It's always a cup that's given rather than something else, you know, so you can have a celebratory drink, I suppose. But generally they don't really do that, not anymore. But back in the day, it'd be full of wine, wouldn't it? Is that what I said? If you want a sports final? You just get a glass of wine and you have a drink out of it. Well, both, I think you get to keep the cup. I'm thinking of that. Hamlet, when Laertes and Hamlet are going at it, and Claudius offers a jewel which is poison. I don't know. It's a spoiler alert for people who haven't seen Hamlet, but he raises his goblet and says, the winner gets the jewel that's in the goblet. So I think, Daniel, you're probably too polite to say so, but you're looking for a slightly more convincing answer than the one I'm offering up at the moment. Well, maybe. Yeah. I mean, I hadn't really. I'm not really that familiar with Tambly, I was thinking. So the whole idea about Kings cup and you have King's cup, and it could be that for some reason, sometimes you get shield. Yeah. You know. Okay. Why do we have cups as prizes? Yep. That's fairly straightforward. Let's see if we can get you an answer. Zero. 345-606-0973 do chickens get sad when we steal their eggs? And does our memory operate identically with numbers as it does with words? Eleven minutes after twelve, Sanjay is in Billericki. Sanjay, question or answer? It's a question, please, James. It's the relationship between alcohol and monasteries. Oh, yeah. I mean, yeah. Because, you know, you have trappist monks brewed beer in Belgium. There's benedictine spirit and his benedictine monks. I mean, I don't know. Buckfast. Tommy. Wine comes out of Buckfast Abbey. And Dom Perignon was a monk as well. Exactly. So it's. I mean, I know the vow of silence is that because they're ridiculously hungover in the mornings or something, they don't all have a vow of silence. Also benedictine, actually. Yes, but it's. But why specifically? Sort of. The gentleman nunneries don't make perfumes to be a gender. Gender. No. I mean, let's not overcome. Let's not overcomplicate it. The answer is fairly straightforward, and I guess it will have two prongs. The first is that it was very hard to find safe water to drink in medieval times, which is when this practice of monastic brewing or winemaking became very common. So even your average worker would have beer at lunchtime because the fermentation process also acted as a sort of sanitation process, cleansing. Yeah, but the second bit would be trade, because monasteries were economic hubs right across Europe, right across the christian world, a monastery would be probably the wealthiest institution in town. Which is why Henry VIII was so keen to get his hands on them. And that's why you had the dissolution of the monasteries. So, in terms of trade, food and drink would be the most obviously tradable commodities. Which is why monasteries not only had sort of farms and orchards and all that sort of thing attached, but they were also at the forefront of brewing technology, so that they could flog the stuff to the peasants and increase the abbot's coffers. So it's pure commerce, nothing to do with the words of God or anything? Commerce and sanitation. Well, I prostrate myself before you change. Well, I thank you, Sanjay, but, you know, you better get up. There's a draft round of applause for me. Qualifications? Classical education. Paul is in Melton. Actually, I don't know if that counts as a qualification anymore. Now that Jacob Reese Mogg has proved, you can have a classical education and be as thick as mint. Oh, and the other fella earlier who went to my school. Okay, I'll take that one back. Qualifications books. Paul is in Melton Mowbray, home of the pope. What is it? Home of the pork pie. Is he there? Paul. I'm Paul, but I'm not from Milton Mowbray. Well, where the hell did that foul calumny come from? Thank you for putting me out of my misery. I thought I was going to be left hanging there, waiting for someone in Melton Mowbray who clearly doesn't exist. Where are you today? Kingston upon Thames. Well, that's a mystery. Anyway, Paul's in Kingston upon Thames. Question or answer? Paul. That's a question, James, carry on. When will the earth's surface reach the ozone layer? On the basis that plant growth divides and grows and we pull oil out of the ground and make things. When archaeologists dig up relics, so they're often 20, 30ft down. So how many millions of years before it doesn't mean the world has grown, it just means that the bits on the ground have sunk. Well, they're increasing. I don't think the world's getting bigger, is it? Well, that is. My question is, Will. The question is based on the presumption that the earth is getting bigger all the time. I don't think it is. The earth's resources are finite. You can't create matter out of nothing, so that all the matter that will ever exist on Earth currently exists. But when cells grow, they're increasing the quantity that the volume. They're not, though, because they're growing as a result, deriving energy from things that already exist. Whether it is heat or chemicals like food and things like that they're not growing by absorbing something that doesn't already exist. Now, I take your point. In terms of energy, there is only a finite amount of energy. So perhaps the question should be then is how much will the surface of the Earth increase with the amount of energy we've got? I don't think. You know, I don't think this is a question. I'm a little. I'm a little conscious of it possibly being me that doesn't understand stuff rather than you. But I'm pretty sure the Earth isn't expanding in anything in any way at all let alone at a rate of knots. That means one day, in dim and distant future we would somehow have a planet so enormous that it reached the moon. Well, I think perhaps we should put it out there because I don't think you're sure and I'm not sure. Well, no, I'm pretty sure. I'm just being polite because if your theory is correct then eventually you'd have to argue that the Earth would reach the moon. But is. No, not reach the moon, but reach this. The surface of the edge of space. Yeah, but where does it go after that? Well, I would if we've got no oxygen left. How big was it 5000 years ago? How big was the earth 5000 years ago? Same size as anyone. No, we don't need an expert. I've given you what you need. It's not a question. I'm going to put it on the board. But I think I've answered it. But I fully accept that I'm not qualified to do so definitively. Okay. Well, I'll take that. Thank you, but I have. And also your theory would posit the inevitability of the earth eventually touching the moon. Yes. We'll probably never get there but it would be nice to get an expert. You keep saying that. Your country's had enough of experts. Haven't you been paying attention? It's 1217. This is LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 3456-060-9732 minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour on LBC. Why do we use cups as prizes? It's got to have something to do with booze. Speaking of booze, I thought I brilliantly answered a question about monasteries and alcohol. The relationships they're in. Do chickens get sad when we take their eggs? And do we remember numbers and words or letters in the same way, the same processes? I'm pretty sure the last question, I thought I was incredibly polite. I didn't dismiss it out of hand, but the notion that the earth is expanding and will therefore eventually reach the limits of outer space. Sort of question that might have popped up at 03:00 in the morning during my student days, but I'll leave it on the board out of politeness, if nothing else, and nostalgia for my student days. Brian is in Boreham wood. Brian, question or answer? That would be a question. Then carry on. You know, when they change something about the roads, for example, they put in a new roundabout, they change. I'm going to stop you right there. Only three weeks ago did I temporarily lift my ban on all motoring related questions, which has been in place for over a decade, on the grounds that they are almost always dull. So I just want you to be aware of the burden of expectation that you are carrying the responsibility currently resting upon your bony shoulders. Brian, if this is rubbish, it's a heavy burden. If this is rubbish, mate, I'm bringing the band back. All right? Now, carry on. No pressure. Well, they put up a sign saying, new roundabout, new layout, priorities changed. And how long does that sign stay up for? Oh, my God, I'm sorry. I've had. I've lived near an area for ten years now, and for the entire time here, there's been a sign up saying priorities changed. When does that go down? That. Sorry to bore you, I'm not just bored, I'm like the platonic form of boredom. How long do temporary road signs say, first of all, Brian, are you sitting down? There's not going to be a. I mean, there's not going to be an answer to that question. Even if it wasn't the dullest question I think I've ever heard in my life. I'm sure there are rules and regulations for everything. It doesn't admit an answer, does it? I'm sure there's a rule. How long can road signs stay up for? As long as they're left there for. Until they're taken down. No, no, no. Road signs that say something has changed. So if there is a new roundabout ahead, understood the question. That's where I'm deriving my confidence, that it's mind numbingly dull. I wouldn't have been so strident in my descriptions if I hadn't understood the question. Completely and utterly, Brian. Well, the challenge is now for someone to come up with a really. The challenge is for me to decide whether or not I allow this question onto my board, given that it has provided pretty much incontrovertible proof that I should never even have contemplated lifting my moratorium on motoring related questions. Because this is what happened applies to pedestrians as well. This is what? It's a road sign, you said. Yeah, well, what are roads for? Well, they could be for cyclists. Stop it. They could be for. Stop it now. Yeah, I know, I know. I'm reaping. No, I think because I'm at one with the universe and such a nice bloke, I might leave it also because there's always a chance I end up getting humiliated. And someone rings in and says, I am head of road signs at Hounslow Borough Council and I can tell you that the maximum amount of time which you are permitted to leave a temporary instruction on the roads, on the highways, is two years and three months. But I doubt it. Thank you, Brian. Thank you for indulging my slightly prickly responses. David's in Gravesend. Question or answer? David. Question, please carry on. My friend and I were on a road trip not long ago and he asked me. Yeah, he asked me what makes us warm blooded? And more specifically, what part acts as the radiator which generates the heat? Oh, I does that. I don't know that the second bit follows on from the first bit. I mean, we are warm blooded and the question of what makes us warm blooded might be interesting. But I think the suggestion that there's a radiator in place, well, I mean, you take away the heart, that stops, obviously, blood circulating, you take away the lungs, you can't breathe. So is there a specific. Okay, now I take it back. So, yeah, the radiators put me off. So what warms our blood as opposed to cold blooded creatures? Yes, definitely exist and have cold blood. So what warms our blood? I think I like that question. Thank you. I mean, it's got to be something to do with, like, thermodynamics. I don't know what that means, mate. You're just throwing words about now. Thermodynamics. I'll give you thermal. I tell you what, it's almost certainly got something to do with biology, David. There we go. Let's find out for you. What. What warms our blood. Zero. 345-606-0973 how long do temporary road signs stay up? 034-560-6973 what is actually going on today? I've got two questions there now. The one about the road signs, the one about the earth expanding until it reaches the ozone layer. Is it 25 minutes after twelve? Jeff's in Chigwell. Jeff, question or answer. I've got a question. Please carry on. Jeff. How fast does electricity travel in miles an hour? I'm getting a lot of flashbacks to 03:00 in the morning during my student days today, Jeff. I don't know why, of course. Do you mean like a bolt of lightning, or do you mean no electricity and no more? So here's a. So here's a power station, and here's a plug in your house. How long does it take? At what speed does the electricity travel from the power station to the plug in your house? Yeah, that's a question you could only really come up with while staring at a plug at 03:00 in the morning during your student days. Jeff well, that has happened all right. I mean, we're having one of those jolly mystery hours where everything's gone a bit surreal. So we shall try and get you an answer to that question. How fast does electricity travel? What makes our blood warm? Why do we have cups as prizes? And do chickens get sad when we take away their eggs? Zero 345-606-0973 if this question is what I think it is, then p 45s are going to be handed out. Sean's in maidenhead. Sean, what would you like to say? Nothing. Go on. Okay. I wondered why when you walk from sunlight to shade, you don't cast a darker shadow in the shade. Given that there is less sunlight going through, what do you think a shadow is? Well, a shadow is caused by sunlight hitting something solid. But what is a shadow is an absence of light. Yes, but why isn't there more absence of light behind me when I stand in the shade? Because the light has to be passing over the body for it to be removed from what you see. How much black is it? I don't walk into shade and I can't see anything at all. But there's not enough light. There's less light in shade, so you're going to have less shadow. The more light you have, the more shadow you have, the darker the absence of light becomes. Do you know, James, I did wonder why I was on hold for a long time. Well, I'm beginning to wonder how the hell you got on air, Sean, I'm not going to lie to you. But then I glance at the questions about road signs and electricity. By the way, I am actually head of road signs at Maidenhead County Council. Stop it. I hate it when this happens. It's only half time. I would say at least half of the questions are absolutely ridiculous. But when I say that, quite often people pop up and say I think you'll find that isn't ridiculous at all, James. In fact, the answer is this, that and the other. Zero. 345-606-0973 can we start answering some of these godforsaken questions now, please? Sam's in Madrid, in Spain. Hola. Hello. Question. I think you'll like this question because it's probably going to be one that you're going to be able to answer. You get a round of applause. It was whether on the radio, there is a mechanism by which the producers are measuring the number of people who might suddenly switch off their radio or change stations, for example, for an irritating ad. I'm saying this as someone who can be irritated by, I don't know, you should hear me where she was like, I'm not. Don't start slagging off the adverts. They pay my flipping mortgage, Sam. But that might be enough to know. Is the answer to your question genuinely? There is no. I might change with digital technology and the rise of DAB, but at the moment, they measure audience by using diaries. Some of them are electronic and some of them are paper. And a sample. A sample of people fill in their listening habits. You can do it online now. And they extrapolate from that a broader national picture. So there'd be no way that they could identify a specific radio being switched. Will the radio then have a threshold by which it will cut off the annoyingness of certain adverts? No. Stop it. With the annoyingness of certain adverts. There is nothing in place that would measure or count how many people were switching off as the result of a specific advert. At 10:00 every morning, about a dozen racists on Twitter claim that they've turned off their radio or tuned their radio. But. But you'd need to be on Twitter to see that. You wouldn't. You wouldn't be able to measure it electronically from. From headquarters or from. Or from base. Okay, so my protest. Changing stations is not actually doing any good. Not as you fill in a diary. And then it'll just. It'll just. It'll just be the program that ends up getting a negative mark against it. Not. Not the advert that you've personally objected to. Ask me what my qualifications are. How are you qualified to have given an answer? I'm an award winning radio presenter. I see. Am I allowed to give an answer to one of the other questions? Absolutely not. I've got a round of applause to absorb. It's 12:30 Lisa Resida's here with the headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1235 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. And yes, I've received an awful lot of calls for me to reintroduce my ban on all motoring related questions. And I think we go. Should we do that officially? Have we got any sound effects for official stuff? Can we get like the sound of, I don't know, a rubber stamp or something? Like what would be a sound effect for doing something officially? Oh, yay. Oh, yay. Motoring questions are banned again, temperate. Well, I don't know. We'll see. One of the. What the hell happened there? Oh, that would be our official sound. No, no, I think we're being unkind to evil, Esther. 1235 is the time. James is in Wigan. Question or answer, James? That's the only clip we've got at the moment. Carry on. Sorry. Fill your boots. An answer to what warms the blood. So basically, all the cells in your body have the ability to generate small amounts of heat as they use sugars, proteins and fats to generate energy. Exothermic chemical reactions. Indeed. So those reactions generate heat. Different parts of your body obviously have different cell types, and all those different cell types generate different amounts of heat. The blood is obviously conducted through the body. Blood in itself isn't actually that sort of active in terms of how much heat it generates. So different organs generate different amounts of. So as we basically, we converting it one kind of energy into another. And that gives off heat energy in the process. Exactly. Keep it simple. Converting potential into kinetic, usually. Well, except this is chemical potential energy into heat energy. But although ultimately you're using it as energy to power everything that you do love it. What happens in cold blooded things. So they just, they still obviously have to eat and they have to obtain energy from things, but they are, aren't as metabolically active, so they don't use the same amount of stuff. And that will be evolutionary because they live in, they live in such cold environments that it would other way around. They tend to live in hot environments. Oh, okay. From where they are. So animals. Yeah, of course. Like lizards and snakes and things like that. To lie in the sun till their muscles and their tissues are warm enough for them to be able to move around. But they're still using energy. But it's actually evolutionary advantageous for those animals because they're able to move around and not have to eat as much as hot blood animals. But from our point of view, it means that we can keep warm more easily. Which means that how human beings eventually traverse their way into. Well, as mammals manage to traverse their way into kind of more northerly and southerly climes, essentially. Love it. Qualifications. I am a hospital doctor. Well, thank you for that. And thank you for your answer. It certainly earns you this. Thank you very much, Doctor James. 1237 is the time Julia is in Roydon. Question or answer? Julia. I'm answering. Carry on. I'm answering about the chickens and their eggs. Why are you laughing? That's a very serious question, which is a very serious question, especially if you're a chicken, Carrie. I don't know if you know Peking bantams. They're very fluffy little chickens. They look like bedroom slippers. And I kept them for many years and they are. The problem with them is that they are always Rudy and it's just such a pain. So they always want to sit on their eggs and they never want you to take their eggs away. And it's quite possible to buy China imitation eggs to put underneath them, so that, you know. What happens if you take the egg away? Well, they just keep on laying. If they get three or four, they'll sit on them until they brood. But they just. And you don't want all those chicks. I ran out of people to give chicks to and I couldn't kill them. No, of course not. It just became. Because they haven't been fully, whatever the word is, domesticated or something, because the chickens we had had obviously been bred to a point where they just laid an egg every day and didn't get particularly broody. I mean. I mean, I. I had two little groups who had separate little houses about ten or 12ft apart. Oh, how delightful. And one. One hen, or they. Two of them actually used to go into the other one's house and steal an egg and roll it across the lawn. Yes. And roll it into her nest. Really? Yes. Why do you have to roll it? Why couldn't you just pick it up? They would know. They would. If I took eggs from one. Yeah. They would go to the other nest and steel eggs and rolled them across the grass and sort of. I don't know how they sort of get them up. Well, this is. This would have been a fantasy. You could have had a viral video clip there. I know. I should have done. I should have done. They were just amazing. They were just amazing. And so, yes, they do have some sort of. Whether it's. Whether it's. And I just gave up because I just couldn't find enough people to give them away. Too many chicks. Like my twenties. Too many chicks. Absolutely, absolutely. Also, there were hyper percentage of cockerels that nobody wants. No, nobody wants the cockerels. And it just became so. I was. I was driving baby, you know, baby chickens. I bet people started avoiding you, didn't they? Here comes Julia. Quick, hide. We don't want another one of her flipping chicks. Please help me. I had beautiful Peking bands, you know, in various colors. Yes, but. But this. But all I can say is that Peking bansomes, which are very maternal, they're famous for being incredibly maternal. So the answer is yes. It's a big yes, because there'll be variations of it and different gradations and what have you. But basically, the very fact that china eggs exist for the purpose of comforting chickens who've had their eggs taken away suggests. Suggests that chickens. If you have a hen that is laying a china egg in their nest would inspire them. Is that right? Yes. That's good to know. For anyone who's not got a laying. Laying chicken, stress can put them off. Laying. You know, if there's a fox sniffing around, they might take a few days off. And you want to. I lost a lot with foxes. I'm in the country and I lost a lot. You think there's a lot of foxes in the country? You should try living in a city. A horse. A hawk. Yeah, I'm a horse, you know, because they're very small. Peak in bench. And hawks swooped down and took my white one. And did you see that happen? Yes. Well, there's a swings and roundabouts. That must have been quite a magical sight. A magical. No, it's nature. Red in tooth and claw. I saw. I saw a falcon at Wormwood Scrubs once, swooping down and catching a vole. And it's burned in my memory like a moment of genuine magic. I've never seen a hawk take a chicken. Yeah, well, they're very. I mean, I don't know if you know anything about the phantom. How long have you listened to this program? I think I know a lot about everything. Oh, okay. You know a lot about. Okay. They're about the size of a poussin. Yeah. It's a poo sand. Yes. Oh, they're quite. They're quite small then? I mean, barely a meal. Well, I don't know. I've never eaten one. No, but you've eaten a poo sand, Julia. I've eaten a poo sand. Slim pickings. Slim pickings. I don't see anymore. No. Well, you've got yourself a round of applause. Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. It's an absolute joy to talk to you. Thank you, Julia. Bye bye. You put a massive smile on my face. I shall find out more about Peking Benson's one day. Rob's in Margate. Rob, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Rob, what's the largest we can get with a single rack in Scrabble? Well, that's knowledge, isn't it? I don't know if that. I don't know if that counts as a proper mystery. Well, it does sort of count because someone will know. It's like pub quiz question, isn't it? Yeah. Why do you want. If you're an. If you're a nerd? Well, I just read this book called word nerd. Yes. A scrabble competition about a guy who enters into a scrabble competition in America. And it's about the highest idea. Yeah. I mean, there's so many variables. Because it needs to be. It would almost certainly need to use all seven letters, wouldn't it? So you get your 50 point bonus. You're going to have to have some serious triple word or. And or triple letter work, triple letter action. And you're probably going to want, you know, an x in there or something like that as well. It's a tall order, but it might not be measurable or it might not have happened. I mean, that's what I love about scrapple, is that it's so unknowable, ultimately, isn't it? But I'll try and find out for you that. What is the high? I mean, it might end up being the highest score anyone's ever got without any guarantee that it's impossible to go even higher because you could find a word that got a massive score and then imagine it somehow fitting in somewhere else on the board where it would have got an even bigger score. But no one's ever had the opportunity to do that because they've never had the opportunity to do that. That's true. You should definitely read this book. Word nerd. Word nerd. Yeah. Really interesting. I will, I will, I will. And I'll try and get you an answer to this highest score you can get with a single go in. Scrabble 0345. Cheers, Rob. Zero. 345-606-0973. I can squeeze in. James, I need some answers. Come on. We need answers. Answers, answers. How fast does electricity travel? Why do we use cups as prizes? And remembering numbers and remembering words, are they different mental processes? And the ones about road signs and the ozone layer. James is in King's Cross. James, question or answer? It's an answer, James, about the electricity speed. Good man. Let's go. Okay. Well, electric current generally flows at a maximum speed in metallic conduct as about two thirds the speed of light. So that's two times ten to the 8 meters/second or roughly 450 million mph. That's the maximum speed it can travel. There are a few caveats to throw in, if I may. You may. There's a number of discontinuities in the system between the power station and your plug socket, in the studio or at home. So for example, it doesn't matter what type of power station it is. It could be a nuclear station, it could be a wind farm or a solar farm. But the current will have to flow through a number of switches, through a number of transformers, through fuses and through your electricity meter and then into your wiring. And all of these present what we call a different characteristic, surge impedance, and that will cause the electric current to speed up or slow down accordingly. So in actual fact, I believe the typical speed would be something like 350 million mph. But to all intents and purposes, James, it's the blink of an eye. When I throw a circuit breaker closed somewhere in London. Heaven forbid any lights are out. What you will see is instantaneous lights. So you cannot, you know, the human eye can't detect these sort of speeds. It's very, very fast. And I think a little clue there to the answer you're going to give to my next question, which is what are your qualifications? I'm a chartered electrical engineer working in high voltage energy supply for the capital. I don't know why I'm impressed by that. Are most people impressed by that? No, most people think I'm extremely boring. Well, I think there, idiots. But when you see, when you see these Hollywood movies and you see the lights going off in a tower block sequentially because some bad guy has switched them all off, it doesn't really work like that. No. And they certainly don't come back on sequentially either. It's generally all or nothing. But the job of me and my colleagues is to make sure that that never happens in London. You have the most reliable electricity supply in the world. For now. Yes, sir. Round of applause for James. I don't know why I did knowledge just, I find knowledge really cool. There was a man there, explained something quite complicated really, really easily. I love that. And next time you see on a Hollywood film, you know, each light going off sequentially, you'll know. You'll know that they are not being scientifically accurate. It's 1246 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Ten minutes to one is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we continue to worry at some mysteries. Why do we use cups as prizes? I like that one. In fact, I don't know why I was getting on my high horse a minute ago about not having enough answers on the board. We've kind of answered almost everything except the rubbish questions. And the rubbish questions this week. For those of you who are wondering are, will the earth expand at such a rate that eventually it reaches the ozone? Do you know, normally, if the news is moving in a way that makes me think we might have to crack on an interrupt mystery to get the news in, I get quite annoyed. I'm looking at the questions left on the board this week. I'm really hoping that they make an announcement on the conservative party leadership campaign before Sheila gets here. I'd like nothing more than to cross live to the announcer. I just heard a rumor, which is modern journalist for Red on Twitter. I just consulted a source read on Twitter, and apparently Rory Stewart's team are desperately searching for Ken Clark. He's got about eight or nine minutes left to vote. Ken Clark is a supporter of Rory Stewart, as is the other great grandee of the conservative party, Nicholas Soames. But Ken Clark, I'm told by Twitter, has gone missing, and they're very worried that he may not get there in time to vote. And Rory Stewart, of course, there, runs the risk of losing by one vote, his right to stay in the competition, in which case, he will blame it all on Ken Clark. So, Ken, if you are listening, Kenneth, or anyone, is sort of. If anyone can see Ken Clark from where they're currently sitting, go and tell him that he doesn't have a mobile phone either. He's a very hard man to pin down. You should listen to my full disclosure interview with him. It's downloadable wherever you get your podcast. Although the global app is the best way of doing it, they're desperately trying to get. So this is like the old fashioned radio. Do you remember when you were driving up the motorway with your mum and they'd put out an announcement on the radio? So would John Gibbons from Stockport please phone home. It's an emergency. If you're called John Gibbons and you're from Stockport. That was just a figure of speech to illustrate a point that I'm trying to make on the radio. There is no emergency, John, seriously, just chill. But if you are Ken Clark, the conservative MP, could you get in touch with Rory Stewart's campaign team, please? Mark's in Congleton, which, oddly enough, isn't far from Stockport. Mark, what would you question or answer? It's an answer, James. Come on, then. And it's very succinct town, so possibly the quickest one you've ever had. So does it have two letters, this answer? Yes. Go on, then. The earth expanding to meet the ozone layer. Yes. No, you need to explain. Show your working, please. All right. Well, I'm a geography graduate with a very good degree from a good university. Yes. And I've got more than a passing interest in astrophysics. That'll do nicely. And has it got something to do with AE equals MC squared? No, I don't think it has nothing at all to do with the fact that the. The earth hasn't put any real mass on since the late heavy bombardment about 3.8 billion years ago. 3.8? Yes. You can neither create nor destroy matter. Correct. And that energy and energy is massive. And there you go. It's almost a lyric. Almost a song lyric there, Mark, great work. And it was an incredibly short answer, but I needed to expand upon it a little in order to be sure that you deserve this. Thank you. No, thank you. 1253 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We're keeping one eye on the conservative leadership race. Just to be clear, each of the ten candidates needs 17 votes or more to stay in the contest. So I think the reasoning is that some of them will have to drop out tonight. Let's cross to. Let's cross just briefly to one of the hot favourites, someone I'm sure we can all agree it would be a terrible loss to the conservative leadership race if this contender were not to make. I'm talking slowly so that Keith can get his ducks in a row. Keith, have you got your duck? Spoiled it. Now it's like when Toto pulls back. Let's just cross now live to one of the key contenders to canvas her thoughts on whether or not she's going to go through into the second round. It's in one of the continents abroad. We know we've got that airport where we can't take off and land because of the winds. The cross winds there. Oh, interesting. Phil's in Teignmouth in Devon. Phil, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Philip. Phil. I've answered a similar question in the past, James. No, one likes a show off. Phil, you should read my inbox. Carry on. It's the memory one. I can't offer you a definitive answer, but I can offer you an explanation that'll do. So, there's various models of memory, and modern neuroscience is influenced by what they call the information systems model, which is basically computers. So the idea is we have different types of memory, so we have episodes, episodic memory, we have semantic memory. We have linguistic memory. And the reason they. There's that supposition, sadly, is because of brain damage. Yes. If you want to read some fascinating cases to Oliver Sacks books. The man who mistook his wife for a hat. Exactly, yes. So, anyway, I would suggest the reason we're better at remembering, I just need to interact. Apparently, Ken Clarke has voted, so everyone relax. Carry on, Phil. So the linguistic memory and the. I would suggest linguistic memory and semantic memory are closely linked, so it's easier to remember a language than it is numbers. Now, there are famous mnemonicists who can remember ridiculously long strings of memory of numbers, and I'm afraid I can't remember the chap's name, Dominic O'Brien. Why? But it was the famous russian rum. No. Didn't Dominic O'Brien, couldn't he remember, like, ten packs of cards in a row? I don't know that name, but we did a case study years ago, russian mnemonicist who can remember huge, like pie to the pie to the 500 decimal places, the numbers into a story. So it turned into partly semantic. So he's making it linguistic. Exactly. That's really interesting. I don't know. You're a clever man and I've enjoyed listening to you, but I'm not finished yet. Well, that's a relief. But I'm just going to add at this point. Point, I'm not entirely sure you've answered the question. Well, I have, because we're talking that it's easy to remember language. Yes. It uses both semantic and episodic and linguistic memory. And whereas numbers is whether or not you can transfer, albeit sometimes unconsciously, though I don't know if you've answered a different type of memory. Remember it. The original question I think you have answered, actually, Phil, because it was contingent upon the fact that our caller remembers words in English, but when he's remembering numbers, he finds it a lot more effective to translate the numbers into his native language, which I think was Parsi or. Now, what do they speak in Afghanistan? Theo, seriously, what are you? Pashtun. Pashtun? Does that fit with your theory, Phil or not? I would suggest it does, because he's turning the numbers into his native language, albeit unconsciously, then turning those into a different type of memory. Qualifications? Degree in psychology from the oU. That'll do. Round of applause for Phil. That's it, I think, for mystery air this week. Have we got anything else left the road signs question. I'd just like to apologize for on behalf of whoever decided it was a suitable question to be put through to the studio for the delectation of my listeners. We didn't get an answer on the cups. Let's see if Sheila Fogarty knows. What was the question? Why do we use cups as prizes? Oh, I have no idea. Theo ushered. I do have an observation. Well, not an observation. A lived experience, as they say. Now, about the numbers and memory. I see numbers. I see deadly. No, I don't see dead people. I see numbers in color. I just got a tweet about synesthesia. That's what I've got. You've got some form of synesthesia. Because he said that he thinks it's probably the same, and I shall find it. Adam has synesthesia and which means his brain fires color recognition for certain things, including letters and numbers. Both have color associated in exactly the same way. So I would say that both are processed in the same way, but you then become evidence for the opposite, because you don't have it with words, which suggests that maybe the brain processes words and numbers differently. Well, mine certainly does. This is absolutely fascinating. Theo's got something to say. Don't we use cups as prizes because you. You drink something. I said celebrate. Yeah. You might as well wear a t shirt saying, I wasn't listening to James today. It's not like there's anything happening in your field of politics, is it? You should have been paying attention. You said you drink something. Probably because you drink something. Your victory. I even brought Claudius in it when he drops that jewel into his cup with Gertrude in the final scenes of Hamlet. Okay, could you look any blanker? Are we. Are we doing the dimbleby thing, or are we actually having a proper. We're going to do cross tune. No, we're just doing it. What should I get out of it so that you can start being a bit more. It's okay. I'll talk from here. Yes. And then when you've left the room, when Theo's talking, I'm going to sit where you are currently sitting. Right. I shall assemble my papers and pick up my planned out in my multicolored brain. Thank you very much. James.