A dead squirrel landed on my head

BC it is three minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. These hours of fun and frolics that we have every Thursday from twelve are becoming more valuable by the moment, aren't they? And I can tell from my switchboard that you feel exactly the same way. The way it works is this. You ring in with a question and you hopefully almost always get an answer and the question can be as daft as you like. There are only really three rules. There are two rules for questions and one rule for answers. You can't if. Well, I'd rather you try to avoid a question that's boring. And the best test of whether or not your question is boring is to establish whether or not everybody else, or lots and lots of other people are going to be interested in the answer. And if you kind of think, oh, actually, maybe it'll be just me, kind of sit on your hands for a while, that's the nicest way I've ever found a putting it. It doesn't always work, though, I've got to be honest. Secondly, repetition. But that's my. That's my lookout. Now, we've been doing mystery out for so long, but frankly, it's down to me to try and recognise whether or not any questions have been dealt with before. And sometimes a little bit of repetition can be quite diverting. There is a brilliantly curated, and I use that word advisedly. There is a brilliantly curated archive over at LBC dot co dot UK comma, wherein you can find questions that have been asked and answered, often satisfactorily, in the past. Now, if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then the simple reaction is to ring in and tell me what the. What the answer is. But you're not allowed to look anything up. That's kind of how mystery hour started and we realized that we'd started googling everything. I mean, books are increasingly on the way now. There's some research out earlier in the week about the number of houses that didn't have any books in them. But it was more the idea of learning. Whether you got it out of a book or whether you got it off a teacher or a tv program doesn't actually matter. The fact is that we want to kind of rediscover the value of knowledge rather than. And this isn't a criticism, everyone's guilty of this. Rather than that slight complacency about knowledge that creeps in when you can google everything. What's the point of learning stuff I can just google it. Learning stuff gives you the bricks that you need to build ideas and to build arguments. So the more you know, the more bricks you've got, the bigger your ideas and the bigger your arguments, the better your arguments will be. That's a slightly pompous over reading of something that essentially devolves into lots and lots of laughter most weeks. But that's. That's how it started, so don't look anything up. If you hear someone ask a question, there's a reason why they're asking it. Six minutes after twelve is the time. The phone number remains the same throughout as ever on this program. I'll give you the number when I have phone lines free. There's a lot of wheat and chaff sorting that goes on in the first ten minutes or so of the program. So surprisingly, you've got quite a good chance of getting through after about eight minutes past twelve, when we've sort of managed to speak to everybody who's taken up a line into the building and very politely suggested that some people might want to move along. 0345, when that moment comes, zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I think that's pretty much it, isn't it? Should we just crack on? If you provide an answer, I'll ask you how you got that knowledge and that simply could have been you saw it on telly or you studied it to PhD level at Harvard University. It's absolutely all up for grabs. All we have to do is be persuaded that you really do know the truth. Finbar, I love that name. Finbar is in Salisbury. Finbar. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. I'm a dog walker. I've had a dog for four or five years. Take her out three times a day. Three. Is that a big dog? It's a. It's a collie. So, lively dog. Okay. Yeah. But I live quite next to three parks, so walk through them often. See squirrels, because the dog tastes them. And it struck me the other day, I've never seen a dead squirrel in all the years I walked through the parks. And I know, you know, it's obviously the birds, whatever, but I walked three times times today. Surely one would fall out of a tree or one would have a heart attack on the. On the field. Never seen a dead squirrel. Have you ever seen a dead rat? No. Ah. That wasn't the answer I was hoping for. I think I have, actually, to be honest. There you go. That's better. Yeah. So it's just the squirrel that has somehow evaded. Either they're all immortal, or there's a reason why we've never seen one. I mean, I understand that birds would, you know, pickle their carcasses and you see roadkill, you know, regularly. But I've never, ever seen a dead squirrel. Squirrel. I've seen a squirrel skull. Right, but have you seen a carcass? No, I've never. And I walk through the park every day, as well. I see live rats, dead rats, occasional dead rats. When we had cats growing up, we got a lot of dead vermin in the house, but never a dead squirrel. Would it count if. Hang on, would it? You want. You mean a squirrel that's died of natural causes? It wouldn't count if someone rang in and said their cat killed a squirrel last night, would it? Well, it's just a matter of numbers, isn't it? I mean, I see so many. I mean, you know, what's your theory? Come on, Finbar, you got to have a theory. I think they must die in their nests or whatever drays, they're called. Drays, I think, on they. Okay. And they reckon the birds must eat them from there. They just bury them. Maybe the other squirrels buried. Ceremonial burial. Okay. Why is Finbar never seen a dead squirrel? That's the first question this week. Love it. 0345, if you know the answer. 606-0973 Che's in Edinburgh. Che. Question or answer? Oh, hi, James. A question, please. Yes. How do you measure the brightness or something? It's in a unit of measurement called lumens. Lumens. Lumen. Lumens. How is that measured? The same way volume is. I mean, it's. You just introduce a scale, and then if it, you know, volume is measurable in decibels, and light is measurable in lumens. So what is an instrument? I'm sounding really persuasive then, and I was saying to myself, jay, every question he comes back with is going to make me sound less and less convincing. Actually, I was watching. I just caught a few minutes of a program, and they were talking about collisions in space, what be it comets or whatnot. And they were saying. They said that this current explosion was 15,000 times brighter than the last explosion they were talking about. And I was thinking, how did they. What did the instrument or something did they use to do this? Yeah, but if you said it was 50 million times louder as well, then it would still be the same question, wouldn't it? Well, you've got, like, an instrument to measure decibels, don't you? You've got an instrument to measure brightness. What's the instrument? Oh, brightometer. All right, yeah, I think we'll. I think. I think we'll pretend I didn't respond to your original question and we'll just put, how do you measure the brightness of something up on the board? Right. All right, thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. Where was the first call from? Somerset or something like that. Where was. Where was Finbar based? I think in the southwest, up to Edinburgh. And now off to Wigan. All human life is here. Where lead is in Wigan. Where lead? Question or answer was in Salisbury. Gone. Willie, what have you got? Many. I'm enduring to the seasonal stereotype of detoxing and I'm trying to drink as much water as possible. I'm buying these bottles of water and I'm looking at the bottles and I'm seeing a used by date. So why is there a used by date on a bottle of water? Is it a plastic bottle? Yeah. Molecular disintegration will need. But it. Oh, okay, fair enough. You're not going to buy that, are you, mate? If you are, I've got a car that I could sell you as well. Got an old Renault five, lovely little runner, one lady owner, if it's susceptible to that. But then I'm thinking this water runs through the mountainous regions in Switzerland for donkeys years, but it can't. It's the plastic bottle that creates the need for a sell by day. I think we've done this before. Are you going to let me go definitive on this? I'm not sure you should, but it is the idea that some of the plastic will leach into the water over a period of time, which kind of makes sense, doesn't it? Because, you know, when you go camping, sometimes when you drink out of some containers, the water tastes quite plasticky. But is it a finite time frame? Is it two years? Can you. Well, it's whatever. I mean, it's going to be kind of a slightly movable feast, but also there'll be commercial reasons for it, in that if it was infinite, then, you know, then we'd buy less. But I think. I think it's bad, but I think it's plastic molecules leaching into the water, but I'm not going to be able to give myself a round of applause because I've made the terrible mistake of sounding uncertainty. Yeah, jury's out. Yeah, the jury is. I could have got that one home as well. I could tell at the beginning you were kind of going, I think he might be talking absolute hogwash, but I don't know if I'm going to pick him up. I should have pushed back through with the molecular disintegration line and I reckon I'd have had this one in the bag. Do you know what? I'm not going to dismiss it as hogwash because you've gone for the polysyllabic. Polysyllabic is always a good play, isn't it? But it does often mask a broader ignorance. Indeed it does. And also, I presume, Perrier glass bottles. Have they got. Have they got islands? Have they got sell by dates on them as well? They probably have, haven't they? When you feel glass was less likely to kind of leach into the water. But anyway, okay, so why does bottled water have a use by date? Why has finbar never seen a dead squirrel? And how do you measure brightness? They're lovely questions and give you quite a good idea of how broad the parameters are on this feature. Anna is in maidenhead. Anna, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Anna, and I'm appealing to your journalistic excellence. Oh, lord above. This is going to end badly. Very often when I'm reading in the paper, you're going along and there's a description of something, and then in brackets, there is three letters, s I c. Sick. Yes. What do they mean and what are they there for? It means thus. So usually, I think it's the latin word for thus. Usually. Oh, come on. Script. Um, sick was erratic. Sick. Errat. Script. This is how it was written. It was written thus. So what it usually accompanies is a mistake. I don't know if you've noticed this, so if, for example, you were printing in a new paper, a tweet that was published on Twitter the day before, and it had that classic error of the less literate, where they got their apostrophe in the wrong place on your. But you were printing in the newspaper. One Twitter user said last night, you're a complete was a cobra, and they spelt your y o u r. Then you'd put sick after the yaw. To say that, as the editor, you know that this is spelt wrongly, but you are reproducing verbatim or syllable for syllable, what was submitted by the person that wrote the tweet so sick? It's quad erat demonstrandum and sic erat scriptum or scriptorum. And it just means this is how it was originally written. Even though it's wrong. I've got you. And that's answered my question. And your journalistic excellence still there. Thank you very much indeed. Hanging on by my fingernails. Anna, thank you very much indeed. Oh, it is 90 minutes after twelve. How do you measure brightness? Why does bottled water have a sell by date? And why has Finbar in Salisbury never seen a dead squirrel? Steve is in Chessington. Steve, question or answer? I've got a question, please, James, carry on. Steve. In second world war, in the ardennes, what was called battle of the bulge, the Americans, when they were given a chance to surrender, just replied with the word nuts. And I wanted to know how the word nuts came about as a. You're not. You're not. You're not prank. You're not pranking me here, are you? It's not some sort of rude thing that I'm not aware of and you are? No, no. It was actually watching the movie the other day called Battle of the bowl, which was in that as well, so, I mean. But he's in history books as well, they've applied that way and. Okay, no, that's fine. I mean, if the answer is really, really rude, I might not be able to say on air and, you know, like FUBAR or something like that. I mean, you'd presume that there's a no and a surrender in there, wouldn't you? If that's kind of what the context is that you've described, but I haven't heard of that before. The way it was written up on the board, it said, where did nuts come from? And I thought, well, crikey trees. I thought this was going to be a really short call, but no. So it was in. I mean, it was specifically american soldiers, was it? Yes, it was, yeah. And the idea was that you said nuts to a german demand for surrender and that was their sole reply, just the one word, nuts. Yeah. Obviously the Americans down, so the Germans didn't understand it, but. No, I like it. It's a great. It's a great question. He might not have an answer. He might just be saying that they were nuts to expect him to reply, but I love the question, Steve. Thank you very much. God, it's all here today. Daniel is in fleet. Daniel, question or answer? Answer. James, lovely speak to you. Bit of a weird one. Basically, I've started writing my autobiography and the title of my book is a squirrel hit my head, and therefore I was cycling along the road and squirrel fell out of the tree, dead squirrel, and hit me on the head. Is there any way you can prove this? I can send you a screenshot of my autobiography. No, that proves that you write in a book called a squirrel hit my head. Is there any way you can prove. Prove that a dead squirrel fell out of a tree and landed on your head? I don't have a photoshop of it, but I can. Do you have a picture of the squirrel not in flight, as it were? I don't. Okay. But I'm being. I can only say, deadly honesty. I could never imagine I'd be calling you to say about a squirrel and hitting my head and a dead squirrel. So I don't know what you want to do with that. Well, have you called me before? Is this the first time you've been on? Certainly it is. So we've got no way of sort of looking at your past performance to establish your reliability and honesty? No. Caroline, what do you think she thinks? She thinks you kosher. Axel. Axel says no. So am I gonna get the casting vote? Rosie's too busy dealing with the phone. It's on Facebook. You can check it on Facebook. I believe that you're writing a book called a squirrel hit my head. It's all the fact that it actually did. So the answer to Finbar's original question would be you just haven't walked under enough trees. Well, cycled under rough trees. So you were cycling, were you? Yeah, I was cycling. That adds to. I don't know why, but that has swung it for you, that it's all. If you're going to tell a lie, keep it simple. But the detail is what pushes it over the line. So I was. James, I went under a tree. And the fact that you were cycling as. Yeah, all right, you're on. So the answer for Finbo is, it does happen. He just hasn't seen one. Exactly. Yeah. And by the time it has been scavenged or, you know, whatever the. Yeah, all of that, it's gonna look like a rat anyway. So you're not even gonna know that it was a dead squirrel in the first place. The babies look just like rats. Yeah. All right. I don't know why you're so proud of. I mean, it was a completely random accident. It's quite weird. Yeah, it's weird, but, I mean, it's not like you did anything to it to achieve it. You're almost speaking as if you're expecting some sort of reward, just complete random chance. And what else is in your memoir? Is this the highlight? No, certainly not. There's basically sharks, bears, guns and drugs and loads of other stuff as well. Yeah, go on, then. Quentin Tarantino. Script starting with a squirrel. Andrew is in Redbridge. Andrew, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Lumens. Lumens are measured in the brightness of a candle, like a single candle, like a regular candle. So if you get a torch that has 100 lm, it will be the equivalent of the brightness of 100 candles. And how do they measure it? So how can they say, you know, that such and such an explosion would be 50 times brighter than the sun or something like that? No, no, it's got nothing to do with the sun. It's to do with the brightness of a candle. Yes, I know, but we talk about the brightness of the sun, don't we? Yeah. So that will be x lumens, will it? I don't think it's the same measurement they measured. The lumens, to my knowledge, is based on the brightness of a candle. No, I know, I get, I get that, but. But it's based on the brightness of a candle. But then you apply it to other things, like things that aren't candles, like bulbs or suns. So they would multiply the brightness of a candle by whatever the brightness. And how do they divide it? How do they measure it down to a lumen? So here is something really bright. What do I point at it to work out how many lumens it is? Oh, I see. I don't know. I don't know. Oh, do you think there is anything, or am I coming, am I looking through the wrong end of the telescope? Well, it sounds like you are, because if the measurement is the brightness of a candle, like a regular candle. Yes. Amount of light you get. So then you just times it by that. If you. Then. So, for instance, if you were to physically put 100 candles in a room, you'd get a certain amount of brightness. Exactly. So how do I count the lumens on something that isn't 100 candles? Something that is, for example, one light bulb. I'm not sure if I'm really getting your question. That means that one of us is barking up the wrong tree. And you've got to be careful when you're barking up the wrong tree because you might end up with a squirrel on your head. Here's the thing. This light bulb here is 100 lm, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now you've explained to me that that means it has the brightness of 100 candles. How did they count it up to a hundred? Well, I would have thought they would. They would. They would measure it in a, in a kind of a scientific way. So would I. But with what? So I don't know. Whatever measure they. Whichever way they measure the brightness of a single candle, and then they just multiply. Right. They don't measure the brightness of a single candle. That is the unit of measurement. Yeah. Which is the equivalent of the brightness of a single candle. So how do they measure a bowl? How do they know that that is as bright as 100 candles? How do they know that's a. I'm feeling confident now that I'm getting this. And you're not? No, I don't think you are. Well, that's often the way in life. But here is a bulb that is 100 lm. How did they count the lumens? And you just said in a scientific way, which I completely agree with. But it's not an answer, is it? No, no, that's fine. No, no, I get that. I get that. So how do they measure it? We need a word like spectrometer or something like that, don't we? Well, let me tell you this. Go on. In photography. Yeah, photography, you have the settings of a camera that measured. Measures the amount of light that the lens takes in. Yeah. So. So, I mean, I'm guessing, obviously, you know. You know, I'm not a scientist in this, but I would. I would suspect that it would be a similar type of equipment. Yeah, I would as well. But that's not. I mean, that's the opposite of definitive. A suspicion is the opposite of a definitive answer. It would be. But the answer to the question how do they measure it? It's based on the brightness of a candle. So therefore there would be some kind of. See what I mean, though? Well, I'd already said all that, though. I just didn't know that a Lumens was an individual. Lumen was the same as one candle. Brightness. He said, how do you measure brightness? I said, in lumens. So you haven't really. I mean, all you've done is define lumen. You haven't expanded upon the original answer we needed. We need that. I mean, would it be a light meter? Now that you've mentioned photography, that's what it would be. But I said that, so I get the round of applause. I said light meter, not you. Did you? Yeah, you said. You said some scientific fashion. I said light meter. Yeah, but that would be. It's only a game, Andrew. Stay there. Stay there because Mike's in sitting born. He thinks he's got something to add. What's going on, Mike? Hi, James. You're both kind of almost there. A lux or a lumen are the same thing. And 1 lm is the amount of light it takes to light 1 distance of a meter. So it's got nothing to do with candles? Well, it used to be, because it used to be called a candle foot. And it was one candle could light 1 distance. Right. Wait there, Mike. Wait there, mate. Andrew. He's better than us. Right. I think you're there, Mike. I thought. Yeah, we're with you, Mike. You can't carry on, mate. How do they measure that? It must be some kind of light meter. That's how a light meter works. So it's been essentially engineered to count lumens? That's absolutely right. And it's called a light meter. Right. You boys share this. All right. I'm going to be all modest and step out. I'm going to give two thirds of it to Mike and one third of it to you, Andrew, if that's all right. Well, I did. Well, that's just wonderful. What are your qualifications, Mike? Hey, stop it. It might be a. What are your qualifications, Michael? GCSE physics. Are you serious? Yeah. No, my son's been doing it for physics at school, and I was. We were. We were working. We were. We were. I was helping him with his physics revision. Love it. Love. It's a perfect moment. It's a perfect mystery. Our moment. Everyone's a winner. There we go, chap. Good work, Andrew. Thank you, Mike. Thank you. It's 12:30 Simon Conway has the headlines. The government has path with James O'Brien on LBC. All right. Dead squirrels. Brightness of lights. They're cool. They're down. We've done them. Nuts. The response of an american soldier to a german request for surrender. The more I look at it, the more I'm wondering. It would have just been a soldier saying, well, that's nuts. I'm not going to surrender. Then you add your sort of favorite commando style epithet, don't you? And why do bottled. Why does bottled water have a sell by day? I've got a couple of fan lines. 30 345-606-0973 is a number you need if you want to grab one of them. Or indeed, if you can answer either of the questions that remain on the board. Richard is in Stoke. Richard, question or answer? I can answer. James. Carry on, mate. It's. Why do the water have an expiry date? Yes, you're completely correct. Water acts like a sponge. So basically it absorbs anything that it comes in contact with. The plastic overtight will leach its nasties into the water make the water unsafe to drink. So I was right. I mean, and glass, I mean, because I think glass bottles probably have a sell by date on them as well and they seem less. Well, the technical term I'm going to use at this point, Richard, is leachy. Yeah, no, they don't leash as much because glasses are more solid material than plastic. Cool. Your qualifications? I've worked in the potable water industry. Potable water industry? Oh, bottled water industry. That'll do. Well, I mean, you're sounding quite mysterious. What did you do in the bottled water industry? It's. Well, it's possible. It's possible water. So it's actually working in treatment plastic. Oh, you did. You did say potable. I thought you did. And then I thought, yeah, okay, so it's treatment works that take, should we say nasty water and turns into drinking water. Splendid. Round of applause for Richard. Thank you. It's 1235. Chris is in Liverpool. We're making waves in Liverpool at the moment. You're the second or third caller today, Chris. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, mate. When a lady's pregnant, she gets stretch marks around her tummy where the baby's growing and things. Yeah. Why doesn't that happen? When a child grows older and obviously they grow and their skin grows and is there kind of a limit on how much your skin can grow before it stretches and gets stretch marks? Does that make sense? I think it makes sense, but I think you've answered it yourself because, for example, I've got a friend of mine who's quite big and he has stretch marks on his stomach. So I was thinking, you know, at what point do you then have stretch marks? Is there some sort of. When you've stopped growing? Yeah. And yet your skin stretches, so it's never going to happen to a child because a child hasn't stopped growing, they're growing, so the skin just grows alongside the rest of the body and then you stop growing and start expanding because you've got a baby in your belly, or like your mate, you've got a few too many pies on site and that will create a stretch mark because it's a finite amount of skin that is being stretched to a greater volume than it was before. Okay, simple as that. It must be, mustn't it? Anything? Yeah, I think so, because my wife's pregnant and I was just trying to correlate the two between my friend and my wife. Yeah, be careful about doing that in front of your wife. You really remind me of my fat friend. At the moment, darling, that's not gonna. That's not gonna go down well. Chris. I'll never. I won't do that. No. Round of applause. I'm gonna take that one. And this is probably gonna get a stewards inquiry. Good. Lovely question. Now, though, 1236 is the time Stephen is in Wellingarden City. Question or answer, Stephen? Go on. Now, let's start again, because you've got to sound confident and certain, otherwise it all goes wrong. Question or answer, Stephen? It's an answer. That's my boy. Come on. Come on. Right. Well, the nuts in question is intended as a swear word pertaining to that part of the male anatomy. I'm sure you know what I mean. And in the 1940s, in America, that would have had a stronger impact than the words that we would use nowadays, if you know what I mean. Well, I mean, I do. I just don't. I don't think that's. I mean, are you familiar with the. Because nuts also means crazy, right. It doesn't just have to refer to testicles. The idea that something is nuts is usually more a reference to it being as nutty as a fruitcake. Right. No, but in the two towns in Belgium surrounded by the Germans, it was the Ardennes offensive, Christmas of 1944, and they were surrounded. The panzers surrounded those two towns. The Americans didn't have any tanks, so they were in a hopeless position. They were trying to fall back and just stall for time, basically, to try and get reinforcements. So one town was, I think it's called Bastogne, but I can't swear to that. It was really being bombarded by the panzers, and the Germans sent in the white flag and said, would you surrender? And they sent it to the commander of the town and he just said, nuts, meaning, you know, the word that sounds like horlicks, basically. I'm going to give you the round of applause, because I think you've got the history right and you've got the employment right and you've got. But I don't know that you've got the actual etymology of nuts. Right. I don't see why you're so confident it means testicles as opposed to meaning nuts in the. In the more kind of demotic sense of just meaning a little bit crazy. That's nuts. Because they say, are you going to surrender? You go, oh, nuts. Oh, yes, I see. So they weren't saying that's nuts. They were saying, like, hell I am. That's a load of nuts. I suppose you could say it's a combination of the two. But, I mean, at the german hq, they couldn't make head nor tail of it, because with the things of translation, you know, the radio operators and so on, and it came across as nuts, as in, like a Walmart, you see. What is this? What is this? What are your qualifications, Stephen? Well, I've had relatives that work that were in the army on the western front in World War Two, and I've seen the film the Battle of the Bulge, where this is described in great detail about five times, and it's fairly accurate on that point, about this bombardment of these two towns in Belgium. Fantastic. Sorry, I can't name the towns, but any history bus would be able to look them up, I'm sure. Yeah, you're on. No, you did. I think you named one of the Bastogne. Yeah, yeah. Oh, that's true. Yeah. Yeah. Put yourself down, Stephen. Have a round of applause. Sam's in Twickenham. Sam, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Well, so I've been reading up a bit on science recently. I think I really enjoyed it. I didn't really enjoy it at school. No. So I thought I should give it a bit of a go now. Good work and. Yeah, thank you very much. You're welcome. Going out of fashion knowledge, mate. Seriously, fill your boots while you can. Probably be against the law by Christmas. Yeah, exactly. Worrying about it. I needed mystery hour this week. You're not the only one. You're not the only one, Sam. Go on. Anyway, sorry. So I was reading about absolute zero and it's like -270 I think, and it's supposedly the coldest it can get. But why is it absolute zero? Why can't we get colder than that? Because there doesn't seem to be much of an upper limit to heat. Why is there a lower limit? I guess. I mean, it's possible that the answer to the question is that you can go below absolute zero. We just hadn't discovered that at the time. That. Was it Kelvin who put the scale together, or whoever it was. I mean, centigrade is one of them, Celsius, rather, is one of them, and Kelvin was the other. But I don't. It's a good question. And, I mean, I'm on very thin ice, if you pardon the pun. I will. No, I like it. I just imagine that if there is an answer available, the answer available will be that there is anyway on the line. Sam. So I think you probably just poked him out of his slumber. We shall see whether that's what he's running to answer. Or whether it's something else. It's a nice question. Why can't you go lower than absolute zero? If indeed that's true, Bob is in Guilford. Bob, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Bob. I hate to ask this question, because you would probably be able to answer it and you get all smug enough, mate. Come on. I reached peak smug years ago. I can't get any smugga, so just enjoy it while you can. So the question is this, you know when you get adverts on radio and tv, and there's a particular one going on now where the chap says, I'm Batman, I'm Batman, etcetera? Yes. Does the. Do the advertise makers or the sponsors, do they pay any royalty to the. To the creators of that character, Batman or Superman or whatever? If it's a pictorial representation, then you'd have to. I actually don't know. You mean if I did a radio advert in which I said, I am the Green Goblin and I am here to hurt one currently going on? No, I know, but I'm trying to avoid that, just in case it's kind of, you know, contractually confusing or something. So I would have thought you have to. Yeah, if you. I don't. I don't know. This is the opposite of smug. I'm really flipping floundering here, Bob, because if you say, I am James Bond and I drink Gordon's dry gin, then you're going to have to pay some money to the estate of Ian Fleming, aren't you? I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, you are. Otherwise every. Everyone will be at it. They'd all be using advert starring James Bond and not paying anybody anything. I think you're going to have to. But whether it's the estate of Ian Fleming or Cubby broccoli, I do not know. I say I am whoever owns the rights. Yeah. So I imagine the answer is yes, but I don't know for sure. And the more I burble and blunder around, the. I'm not going to get any closer to knowledge and certainty. And what's making you wonder about it? Just that advert we've got running at the moment. Yes. From time to time, there's various adverts and I have wondered about this and I thought you would. You. I thought you would know. In fact, you have disappointed me. Well, it's the first time forever, Bob. I'll try and get you an answer. I quite. The royalties go to the creators of a character when it's using an advert. Usually, yes, but if you're in a radio advert and you just say, I'm Batman and I'm here to fix your air conditioning, would you have to pay money to. Oh, come on. Adam west is the actor in the tv show Bob somewhere. It's another Bob, isn't it, that came up with Batman. Come on. Come on. Who did Batman? Come on, Axel. Who did Batman? It's gone. Jessica. Oh, so is Jessica. Phil is in Wanstead. Phil, question or answer? Paul in first. Question or answer? It's an answer, James, for absolute zero. Carry on, Paul. Right. Absolute zero is -273 degrees Kelvin. And matter stops moving at that temperature. So it's physically impossible to achieve a lower temperature because. Because everything stops moving. Absolutely everything stops moving. You need physical movement in order to affect a temperature change. To go down or up. Yeah. And that is everything stops at -273 qualifications? Refrigeration engineer. Refrigeration engineer. I like that a lot. I've already played my Raylio at the moment for today, to Zamo out of Grange Hill, or Lee McDonald, as he's otherwise known. So I can't play with Rayleigh Otto moment, but if I was going to play one in mystery, that would have probably been it. Refrigeration engineer. Round of applause. No, thank you, Paul. Good work. I like that. I like that a lot. 1244 is the time. Jessica is in Balam. Jessica, question or answer? Answer. Go on, then. So it's about the stretch mark. No, I nailed that. I nailed that. I knocked out the pot. Well, you kind of didn't fully answer it. The reason. Because I think the person who rang and said, why do pregnant women get stretch marks but children growing don't. Yeah. And the reason, it's to do with the rate at which their body's growing. Yes. Because a pregnant woman's stomach grows quite quickly, that some people, obviously not everyone gets stretch marks. Some people skin hasn't got enough elasticity to keep up with the rate at which their stomach's grown. So it kind of cracks, if you see what I mean. Yes. And those cracks are what the stretch marks are. Obviously, a child is growing internally and their skin, and then internally, they're growing in sync together. And so that's why they don't get stretch marks, although some children do, if they have a growth that in teenage years, sometimes you see, kids get little stretch marks. Oh, really? From losing weight really rapidly as well. Okay. Yeah. You deserve the round of applause that I rather cynically trousered earlier qualifications, Jessica? Well, I'm a serial researcher and I had a baby last year and I was trying to avoid stretch marks. I looked into it quite a lot. And did. Did it succeed? I didn't get any stretch marks at all. And was that because of things that you did? Well, I don't know. Because it's one of those things that you'll never know whether or not you were going to get them anyway. Okay, that's a very good point. So you used all sorts of oils and unguents, but you don't know whether you would have. The main thing I did was I drank bone broth. Pardon? And. Sorry? Bone broth. Bone broth. Oh, okay. Like stock. You bought out some bones, make some broth. Really? Where did you get that from? That advice from on the Internet. Bone broth is like a miracle, a miracle substance. So if anyone's interested, they say that's one of the best ways to stop stretch marks because of the gelatin content and that passes through the system into the actual skin. Well, you live and learn. I mean, I'm not going to be endorse the science, but it worked for you. Can I ask you a slightly personal question? I heard the baby in the background. Then it's not personal about you, it's personal about me. Did you just hear my tummy then? Yeah. Did you? My tummy just made the most astonishing noise. My stomach made that noise about half an hour ago. And my baby looked at my stomach as he used to say. What the hell's going on? Must be something in the water, wasn't it? I haven't been to Balam for weeks. I don't know what that was. I can't believe you heard that. I just sort of actually got distracted by my own stomach rumble for the first time in my life. It wasn't their volume so much as the length of it. I thought it was like something on the line, like some kind of spirit. I didn't really think about it. A round of applause for Jessica. No, thank you. 1247 is the time. It's 1252, and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. We've done the nuts, we've done the nuts, we've done the dead screw. That seems apposite. And that remarkable noise my stomach made just before the travel scots reminded me that came up on mystery hour last week. The reason, of course, why I heard it so clearly is because my stomach's quite empty. But it's making noises like that all the time. It's just that food and fluid would normally provide a certain degree of insulation. Which means that whoever's job it is to make sure my tea is refilled regularly during the travel breaks. Is clearly responsible for that curious interjection into the program. 1252 is the time Drew is in Beckenham. Drew. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Come on, mate. It's the question regarding Batman on adverts. Yes. So basically it just comes down to who owns the right. Bob Kane was his name. Bob. Sorry? Bob Kane. Bob Kane and Bill Finger. His name was. Bill Finger is actually conjunction between two of them. There's a big court case in America. Oh, really? Where the Bill finger estate were trying to basically get DC comics who owned the rights of Batman to accept he had a part. But even on a radio ad. So even if. I mean, even if, you know, if I was making a comedy sketch show and I pretended to be Batman. I'd have to pay some money to whoever owns the rights. It. I think it depends. You can do it in parody, right? You wouldn't have to owe them any money. If you're doing it as a serious. You know, like you said, I'm Batman and I listen to LBC. You'd need to put. You have the permission of. Yes, probably pay DC comics who are in the right. Is it DC comics that own the rights? Okay. Yeah. I mean, it was. Remember Hulk Hogan? WWF. Yes, of course. WWF used to have to pay Marvel comics for the use of the word hulk. Did they really? Yeah. Because that was a made up name for the incredible. Yeah. So it's kind of copyright, trademark laws, qualifications. A comic book reader. So I just follow that sort of thing. My favorite. My. One of my favorite sort of contributors to the show, Emma, gave me a copy of Viva V for Vendetta for my birthday last week. Fantastic. I mean, amazing, isn't it? Fantastic. Really good. Um, you get a round of applause. Are you the Beckenham equivalent of comic book guy out of the Simpsons? Drew? Yeah, I'm the Beckenham equivalent of Batman. That's more like it. Exactly. Aim high. 1254 is the time Mark is in Walthamstow. Mark. Question or answer? It's an question, James. Go on then. Yes. Being old, I have a Rajah, a rather large LP collection. It's easy for you to say. And I've always wondered, you know, the revolutions 33 in the third, why not 30 or 40? But that 3rd 33, that's an awkward rpm, that is, per minute might be the minute. Yeah, but that's a unit of three, isn't it? 60 seconds. In a minute. So why am I even. Why am I even thinking about trying to answer this one using first principles? 33 and a third. So 33 and a third per minute. So 33 and a third is a third of a hundred. Now, I got swore then. I've got absolutely no idea. It's bad enough my stomach interfering with the program. My potty mouth nearly took over then as well. Um, you've left it quite late, Mark. No, I was on the first thing, but it's. That means Caroline didn't like the question then, mate, I don't know how to. I can't really sugar that pill very well, so, I mean, we owe it to you to try and get an answer before 1259, when Sheila will be here. We've got three minutes. Well, come on, mate, have a bit of faith. This is mystery hour. Why are LP records long playing records programmed, for want of a better word, engineered to work at 33 and a third revolutions per minute. Yeah, yeah, you're on. Right, come on. 0345. I've got phone lines. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Hit the numbers now. You will get through, because I'm going to free up. We're not going to put on many more questions, so if we get an answer to that one, I want to put it straight to air. Mick is in Wimbledon. Mick. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Basically, when you hear of these banks getting fined, you know, 30 million for credit card PPI selling and all the rest of it, who actually gets the money? It's just the treasury, isn't it? Why do you want a piece of the action? Hello, I'm here. I think it's just the treasury. And then I made a funny comment about whether or not you wanted a piece of the action, but it's not going to work on repetition if you didn't hear it the first time. Very polite false chuckle. I mean, it just goes to the government. That is the treasury, doesn't it? Or. No? No, I don't know either. So I guess it's on the board, isn't it? So we got two now. Where does the money go when a company gets fined? And why do records play at 33 and a third revolutions per minute? If you know the answer to either of those, you can come straight to air this morning. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. 1257 is the time Mike is in Totteridge. Mike, question or answer? Yeah, it's an answer to the 33 and a third the record. Oh, yeah. They used to sell back in the day, three of them for a pound, six shillings and eightpence, and three times 33 and a third was a pound. And they were always known as 33 and a third. But why do they play at that speed? I think they played it at that speed because of the three for a pound. It was three for a pound for dodge. There's no earthly way I'm gonna go peak dismissive now. And that usually ends up coming back to bite me on the backside. There is no way on God's green earth that that's even close to the right answer. They decided to play them at a certain speed, a certain number of revolutions per minute, because they were being sold for three for a pound. That's how it worked out. Back to the back of the class for you, Michael. Back of the class in the dunces. Cap. You're not having that if you don't want it, okay? But that is the answer. That is not the answer. Shame on you. Sam's in Harlow. Question or answer, Sam, quick as you can. We're gonna crash, Sheila. Otherwise all the money from the banks who do our misdemeanors go to the serious fraud office of that domestic country where. No, it doesn't. It does. Qualifications. I run the serious fraud office, James. Stick that in your pipe and smoke it. What your qualification, Sam? I learned about a unique. There's no way RBS get fined 3 billion. I mean, that's in America. But if RBS were fined a billion pounds in this country, they would not give it to the serious fraud office. So, for example, when RBS got fined, a lot of the money went off in America and then I think the UK one got about 50 mil. I'm not going to give you a round of applause, but ring me next week if I'm wrong and I'll give it to you on credit. All right, that's it from me for another day. Oh, I'm not here tomorrow. I have a hospital appointment. Nothing to worry about. I mentioned it yesterday. My poor old mum had kittens. Just finally trying to work out this. This thing in my eye that gets better every day, but otherwise have a cracking weekend with it all again on Monday morning. You have been listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Here is Sheila Fogarty.