Chris Moyles pops in to ask a question

King Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien, four minutes after twelve. I'm just checking the origins of this Nadine Dorry's award for Brexit idiocy, I think, has to go to Andrew Rossindale, who told Channel Four news last night that Spain won't be so silly as to kick up a fuss about Gibraltar because we send them huge numbers of pensioners. Thank God it's mystery, Al. A slight change of pace and a change of tone. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you know how it works, don't hang around, get stuck in, grab your place. Now, if you don't know how it works, allow me to take a moment, if you will, to fill you in. You'll have, in the back of your mind, buzzing away something that puzzles you, you know. A who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whither, a whence. Possibly even the occasional wherefore art thou? So what happens now is that you ring me and ask that question and somebody else listening will know the answer. They are not allowed to look it up. This is the only real rule of mystery. You're not allowed to look stuff up because we kind of want to high five each other for knowing stuff. I nearly used a rude word then. It's going to happen one day, isn't it? What's the rudest word I've ever said? Accidentally on air. I don't think I've ever really let myself, which is astonishing because I'm potty mouthed off air. The point being, of course, that we like to celebrate knowing stuff and almost sort of just nostalgically look back on the days where you couldn't google everything and find stuff out of the flick of a switch. At the very least, you'd have to consult a reference book. But more often than not, you'd have to consult another human being. So that's what we're doing here. It can be as silly or as serious as you like. It can be scientific or social. There are really very few rules. Our only enemy is dullness. But that's true every hour of the program, actually, not just during mystery hour. Don't be boring. You won't get on. And the judge of boredom, I guess, rests today with Sandra and Tom, who will be polite in their efforts to move you along if they've decided that your question is unlikely to light up my little face. So, car questions, usually a bit boring. Repetition. If it's really obvious. If you're quite new to this and you think, oh, I'll ask that, I've always wondered that. If you've always wondered it, chances are we've done it a few times before, but obviously I'm the gatekeeper for that because we're doing it so long. None of the people that were working here when I started doing it work here anymore. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Crack on. Should we just do it? And then, if you don't know what I'm talking about, you'll soon work it out by listening to some of the questions and hopefully answers that pop up. So we will begin with Barry, who is in Croydon. Barry, question or answer? Hello, James. Hello. I want to know, why doesn't our own snoring wake us up? Why does it wake up in person, next to us, but doesn't wake us up? It does sometimes. Not often, no. I mean surprisingly unoffen, if that's a word. Surprisingly rarely. Are you a big snorer? Yes, I am. But I have a snoring device and that cuts out most of it. Probably over three quarters of the snoring. So what is it? Oh, it's like a gum shield, which has got a little hole where your front teeth are. It's got a little square hole. Oh, yeah. Front of it. And it cut out. I've been told by people, after some. I share a room with around about 80% of my snoring. That's brilliant. I just wish my brother would use one. Or is he quite noisy as well? Oh, dear. Tell me about it. So, here. Wake you. He'll wake you up, Willie. But you wouldn't wake him up. Luckily, I only share room with him at Christmas. Fair enough. I love that. Eight minutes after. So let's see what we can do. It's a good question. I sometimes wake myself up with the snort rather than the snore. The kind of that one. There you go. Whoa. Hey. But I have occasionally, um. I have occasionally been roused by misses O'Brien. Snoring. Roused, not aroused, you freak. Graham is in Orpington. Graham, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Was there less gravity in the past? What? Well, it sounds daft, but every year a certain amount of material from space gets deposited on earth. So every year they are slightly bigger. Granted, not by much, but also life in the past was much bigger. And there's life in the past was much bigger? Oh, yeah, dinosaurs. They were massive. Right. But you couldn't get something as big as that today. You know, the idea of, uh, it takes a certain cross section. It's something about, you know, as you increase life. Um. I haven't got the first idea what you're talking about, Graham. I know it's. Everything was so much bigger in the past, but you don't have big life today. Evolution is exactly the same. Why don't we have big life today? Is it because it overcome them? Evolution has decided that being that big isn't. Doesn't make you more prone to survival and procreation. It's nothing. I don't think it's got anything to do with gravity. Yes, I was still quite curious, because the earth is definitely bigger today than it would have been. What do you mean by bigger? What do you mean by big? You mean it's got more mass because of an occasional asteroid landing on it? No, no, there's more than that. There is only, like, something like 60 tons a year of material from space gets deposited on Earth. So the earth is definitely bigger. But why would that make gravity less strong? Because the more dense you are, the greater effect you have on gravity. You what? Well, Mars is smaller than Earth, has a. There's a very slim chance that you're being a genius here and I'm being a dope. I want to make that clear. I want to acknowledge that possibility while I continue to sort of sneer at you and make odd noises. Now, that's fine, to be honest. Only thought of this the other night. So I was reading an Arthur C. Clarke book, and I've been waiting two days to answer. So, was gravity less? Was there less gravity in the past because the planet was smaller? Yeah. All right, well, don't laugh, because it might not be. If that's not a stupid question, I shall give you the money myself. Oh, no, Professor Howe's on the line. Is he? Yeah. And that'll be for you. I mean, it can't be for any other question. He never rings in with answer with. With questions. So that must be. Let's get him up. Let's get him up. Stay there, Graham. You can have some bespoke first. This doesn't happen very often. Professor Hal. I thought you were in Russia. No, I'm going next Thursday. I just got my visa. Nice and early this time. I just done that thing that you should never do as a radio host, and I presume that everybody knows what's going on, but of course, with an ever growing audience, I need to now say that Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and something of a mystery hour. Regular. So, was there less gravity in the past? And, Graeme, you stay there, mate, because this is. Yeah, good. Because if this is as stupid as I think it is, I want to see the whites of your eyes as the. Go on, Hal. Well, there's two aspects to Graham's question. The first is, if there's more mass arriving on earth in the form of meteors and so forth, is that affecting our gravity? And the answer is, there's actually an equilibrium for every meteor that comes on. Things like helium, which escapes from the ground, escapes into the atmosphere, so that's more or less in equilibrium. But also the dinosaurs is a red herring. Or a red herring a saurus, if I may? No, you may not. Okay. There is as much biomass on the earth as there ever has been or there ever will be. It's in equilibrium. So there may be more. Fewer larger animals, but there could be replaced by more smaller animals. The ecosystem is relatively a closed loop. What was that? What? That noise. What noise? It might be me. I'm still on the street. Oh, right. Sorry, Greg. Carry on, Hal. Okay, so, yes, the biomass on the earth is in relative equilibrium. So you may have more large dinosaurs, but then you'd have fewer, smaller. Graham, do you mind, mate? I mean, seriously, how many other sound effects are you going to do? While me and Haller being all clever, I'll try and put my head near a show. Yeah, thank you. Carry on. Halloween. It's not dissimilar to the water cycle questions I answered last week. It's in equilibrium. Most of our things are in an equilibrium. They go around the world. Is there anything that would affect the power of gravity? Is there a variable with gravity? No. F equals gmm over r squared. That's exactly what I was thinking. No, it's the mass of the earth and relative to the mass of other things divided by the distance between them. So we're being affected by the gravity of everything around us, but we are a relatively closed system and the gravitational effect that we exert on others is relatively constant. Not actually a stupid question. I wouldn't go that far, mate. Oh, unlucky, Graham. Oh, well, never mind. Did you understand any of that? Don't lie. Vaguely. Yeah, me, too. That should be your middle name. Hal. Here you go, have a round of applause. So you won't be on next week, then you'll be on your way to Russia? Well, actually, I'm going in the evening, so I'm going to try and get a crafty, a cheeky mystery out in before I set off for the airport. Fantastic. There is no other kind. It's always cheeky. Thank you, Professor Hal. There you go. Something. Something e over. Something is often the answer to the questions that are posed on mystery. You don't have to be scientific. It can be silly, it can be relatively comical. It doesn't matter what the question is, as long as it's interesting. The only criteria, really, it's quite helpful to explain this sometimes, is, do you think other people will be interested? Do you think lots and lots of other people will also be interested in the answer to your question? Gareth in Birmingham. Gareth, what have you got? Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Okay, so I want to know if pilots use the seatbelt sign for reasons other than turbulence. I was on a plane recently with my girlfriend, and there are a lot of kids running up and down the plane, and suddenly the seat belt light came on. And my girlfriend says, I bet that was put on because of the kids. Did they make any announcement? Did they make any announcement? No, they made no announcement. How many kids were running around? Quite a lot. It was. It was sort of a crash, really. That's not good behavior on a plane. I know. I'm not. Yeah. So I want to know if they ever use it to. Do you think that they might affect the plane then running around, or do you think that the pilot did it just. Just to. I think it's as a favor to the host, to the air. Oh, you've made me think about. Ivan's just done some gesticulations at me through the window. I think he's suggesting that if there are enough children running up and down, it might affect the balance of the plane. Is that what you're suggesting? I mean, that's why. I mean, it doesn't matter how big there. It matters how many there are. That's why I asked you. See, I went straight to the nub of the issue. No, but if it was. Yeah. Okay, so a pilot. We need a pilot because, I mean, it's probably not in the rule books. It's just going to be something that you do at work. So you'll turn to one of the hosts, or hostesses will go into the cockpit and say, oh, we've got some awful power. They're letting the kids run around wild. I can't. I've got a serve dinner. Especially with the trolleys moving up and down the aisle. And then the pilot goes, don't you worry. I'll take care of this. And then flicks a switch. And on come the seatbelt lights. Yeah, we shall see. Also, James. Yes? I've written a song based on the name of your book. Is that all right? Of course it is. Send it to me and I'll play it on the program. If it's any. What books that, Gareth. It's how to be right in a world gone wrong. Ah, okay. Available for pre order now. And all. All good booksellers. Thank you. Can you send it to me? Will you send it to me? Will do. Forward to it. 1215 is the time and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC and we want to know whether to pilots. I didn't ask what genre he is. I hope it's death metal. Whether pilots can flick on the seat belt lights for reasons other than turbulence, for actually issues within the plane. I'm pretty sure they can, but it'd be nice to go definitive. This is LBC. 1219 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC Mystery hour. Continue. So, with no further ado, Debbie's in Dartford. Debbie, question or answer? Hello, Debbie. Carry on. Right. I live in a place called. I live in a walk. Bushfield Walk. Oh, yeah. So I was just, you know, sitting, thinking, why have they called it a walk? Because apart from getting into your car, going out your house, there's not a nice walk or anything, is it? Not careful. Why do they name places? For instance, you know, you've got place called place rise, avenue, lane, muse road, walk, path, drive, green, etc, etc. How do they decide what they're going to call somewhere? What? Why have you got the radio on in the background? Oh, because the telly's on. Sorry, you've got the telly on. Sorry, I've got it now. I can hear you. Well, I don't care. This is so disrespectful, Debbie. Oh, I'm so new to this. Please don't shout at me. All right, I won't. Okay. Yeah. So, you know it's a cancel. It's a cancel in it. I just decided. When they build a new road, the council decide what it's going to? I think so. Because some of these are muse. It's not a council place, it's where my other half used to live. Which wasn't council. No, but I don't mean it's a council house, I mean it's the council. The council run the roads, so they name the roads. They decide what they're going to be. Don't know. It'd be a cool job. That's not a lane. You can. You can go. I mean, what's the difference in a lane and an avenue? I think, did an avenue have trees on it or. I live on a road. But then you've got somewhere called a green. And I used to know somewhere that was called something green and the nearest greenery was about a mile and a half away. So why do they call it green? I don't know. I've lived on a road and. Sorry, I've got Chris. Chris Moyles. Are you familiar with Chris Moyles? I've got Chris Moyes standing outside the studio. I think he's about to moon me. Is that how excited my question was? He's come sprinting. Sprinting from Radio X, because he heard your question about roads and avenues and lanes. I know that he's got a question of his own as well. I might. I might. I might allow him into the studio. I just wonder what makes them think, yes, you know, why is if it was a walk and I had a nice walk or something, I can understand it. If it's somewhere that's on a green, I understand it, but they're not. No, I'll do it. I like it. It's a great question. I think the answer is going to be quite boring. I don't think there's going to be an actual criterion for what you may call it for, you know, if it is x, Y and z, then it's an avenue. If it's. If it's a, B and c, it's a road. But I shall find out for you. We need someone. I want to go. I want to get a Ray Liotta on this. I want someone whose job it is to actually name roads and streets and avenues. Zero. 345-606-0973 David is in Belfast. David, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. So it was the answer to why do pilots put seatbelts on? For reasons other than turbulence. Do they? Do they? Is the first question. Do they? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So there's a couple of different reasons. Now, they will be airline specific. So, like, airlines will have varying degrees of what sort of, like, procedures. It's all kind of boring, but. So one reason is for security, and I'm not making this up. So if one of us wants to nip out to the loo. Yeah, believe it or not, there's not one in the front. So we have to put the seat belt signs on, everyone has to sit down, then we can get out and do our business. And then so you put the seatbelt size on when you go for a. For a week? Yeah. I mean, I'm not actually making that up yet. No, I believe you. I'm just clarifying that I've understood you correctly. So it's more than likely then the question asked whether or not the pilot might afflict on the seatbelt signs because the kids were running amok. It's more than likely that that's true. That is why. Well, yeah, I mean, that could be a reason. Although the other reason for that would be more like we would get, like if we get lots of drunk passengers, which we may or may not do. Yes. And the cabin crew tell us, please put the seatbelt sign on because there's a lot of people in the aisle and they're causing very difficult for them to run a trolley up and down. So we just say, okay, perfect qualifications. I knew that. I'm just checking. Sorry. I mean, yeah. Round of applause for David. Good work. 23 minutes after twelve, I'm waiting like a kid at Christmas for a callback from LBC. This is from John Childs for mystery. I'm rocking back and forth like a baby. My question was, good. I've even stopped hedge cutting. Oh, my goodness. Please put me out of my misery. James says John. And I'm joined in the studio by someone who is comparably excited. You're as excited as John to be here, aren't you? Chris Moyles. Hi, James. Hello, Chris. Nice to see you. Hi, James. Chris from Leeds. Question or answer? Chris question. Carry on. What are you drinking? That's tea. In what glass? It's in a pint pot. This is not. This is your radio. God, you can't come on here and pull down the fourth wall. I have another question. Carry on. When you say question or answer to callers and they said, question, why do you not play a clip of Destiny's child? Will all thinking it. Everybody under a certain age. I'm not. You should have it queued up. I don't have the young people. I thought you had a proper question. I do. So you gotta speak properly. Right. Chris in Leeds. Question or answer? Chris question. Carry on. Good morning, James. Longtime listener, first time caller. Ice cream vans. Yeah. When they played their tunes to signify that the ice cream man has come to an area. Yes. A lot of people will remember that the tune of choice for the ice cream man was greensleeves. Yes. Often. Why? You want to know why? Mm hmm. That's the point of the hour. Thank you. But why, Greenslee? Why have green. Same reason that people play it on the recorder more often than other tunes, because it's got. It's very catchy. Do you know who wrote green sleeves? Tom Jones. Henry VIII. That's right. I didn't know that. Fran Berlin? I did. Yeah. And it's clever. Well done. That makes you look clever. That's the whole point of mystery, I, mate, that you jump in and just throw in some little bits of knowledge and look really clever. Also, can I ask you another question? And then I will leave. Because if I was listening to this at home and heard of this jockey pop in, I'd be furious. But why? Here's a question. Why do you take calls at 1257 and you go, question or answer? Are they? Good question. It's never going to get answered. Ever. I know. I don't know why I do that. Right. I mean, I think you never know. We have had it in the past. Sometimes Sheila Fogarty answers it. Well, then that should be the whole point, then. And then if Sheila doesn't, how are you gonna know whether or not we got you an answer or not? Cuz I listen. Yeah. Oh, mate. Oh. You know, I've never been in here before, ever. And I know they'll never let me in again. Well, it's probably me that's gonna get into trouble, not you. Anyway, can you help? Chris in Leeds. Chris in Leeds needs to know whether or not or why Greensleeves is the tune of choice for so many ice cream vans. What are today's questions? Throw them at me. And if I can help, I will answer them. How do they name roads and avenues and streets. Who decides what it's going to be? Okay, go on. Don't know. Okay. Um. I think we've done all the others. Oh, and why doesn't. Why doesn't. Why don't we wake ourselves up with our own snoring? Oh, and I've worked myself up with my own snoring. Not as often as you would expect. I still have done it. Yeah, I know, but why doesn't it happen more? This is like because you're asleep. Mystery hour or divvy hour? On that bombshell, I'll leave you to it. Thank you very much. Chrissy leaves there. Get out. You know, we both get the same bus into town. So the one that Nick does 27 minutes after 27 minutes after twelve is a time. Chris Moyles, radio disruptor, joining in on mystery hour. If you know the answer to his question, we will be interested in hearing it. Rich is in El Maria in Spain. Rich quick, bring back the grown ups. Hello, James, it's Mike, actually. Not Rich. Where do we get Rich from? What's going on? God knows. Do you live with the rich? Do you know anyone called rich? No. You're the only rich person I know. Exactly. Where did we get filthy rich? I do apologize, Mike, for calling you Rich. What's your question? Question or answer? It's a question, James. Yeah. How much. How much does electricity weigh? On the assumption that it does weigh something? How do you mean? I mean, how much electricity? Well, electricity in general. I mean, if you accumulate it enough, there must be a weight to it. I mean, I don't expect my mobile phone to be heavier just because it's charged as opposed to flat. Ah, okay. It probably is slightly heavier in some way. Must be, mustn't it? In some way. Well, I'm assuming it does and that's why I'm asking, how much does it weigh? I mean, if you had a back. Yeah. So you could have it per volume, couldn't you? So it weighs x micrograms per. Well, no. I don't know. For storage. What's that going on in the background? That's a dump, buck. And I'm sitting on my terrace at the moment in the sunshine. Yeah, all right, mate, don't rub it in. I'll try and find out for you. I get the question and I think it must have an answer. There must be some sort, because if it's charged up and it's not charged up, then there must be some sort of difference in weight there, because there's something there. Electrical energy. I don't know. I'm not very clever. I'll try and ask someone who is. It's a shame Professor Howells already had his go today. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you know the answer to Mike's question, are we going to have a stewards inquiry into how the hell he ended up being called rich on the program? I blame Chris Moyles. He's been disrupting just about every aspect of the program. Helen is in Sheffield. Hello, Helen. Question or answer is a question, James. Please carry on. I'd like to know, why is it that certain perfumes and aftershaves smell different on different people? There are a number of reasons for this. Key among them would be temperature, body temperature, but also your own scent. You know, everyone has a different smell, so it's a combination of an external scent with your. What you might call your inherent scent. So it's bound to smell slightly differently from person to person. Also, there are differences in, you know, when you were taught to rub your wrists together and to do that, to kind of activate the perfume. I don't. I put it on cotton wool and stick it in my bra. Well, I got me. Every day is an education, isn't it? And does that, and you find that. That creates a more. What am I looking for here? I never put it on the wrist on pulse points, but I was myself, my mum, my sister, shave. Okay, which is it? We all wear the same perfume. Sorry. And I was walking past someone and someone said, I can smell fly spray. I was wearing it. Fly spray. Oh, that's just rude. What perfume do you wear? I wear all sorts. After that one, that one in the bin, that was obsession. I quite like obsession, but it actually did. When I actually started trying to smell it more, it went into slice, spray smell on me. But did you have it in your bra or were you wearing it in a more conventional sense? No, because you say, because there's going to be some sort of reaction with the cotton wool. It will smell different on cotton wool to how it would smell on your skin. That's actually the answer as well. And it smells completely different? Yes, because she's not you. She's got different natural aromas and different body temperatures, and everything mixes up to create that. I mean, it is simply think of it as one plus one, but doesn't equal. No, don't think of it as one plus one. Think of it as two separate constituents. The perfume is constant. That's the same until you add it to the other constituent, which is the wearer. And every wearer is different. So all perfumes will smell slightly different on different people. Right. Okay. Don't sound skeptical like that, Helen. Ask me what my qualifications are. Oh, James, what are your qualifications? Well, funnily enough, I used to work in perfume at Beatties in Worcester. I was the concession holder for Lancaster fragrances for a few christmases. So I specialized chiefly in Dupe and Davidoff's cool water. But often on lunch breaks and things like that, I would step across into the ladies fragrances department and I would help people purchase those as well. And I went on a couple of courses, actually, Helen, where it was taught to me that the variables in how fragrances react differently to different wearers include body temperature and your own sort of inherent aromas. And that's why you're a radio broadcaster and I'm not. Because I was rubbish. I don't get a Ray Liotta for that, but I'll give myself a round of applause. Helen, you take care. I might clip that out because I'd like to let people guess what the question was. I stick it on cotton, we put it on cotton wool and stick it in my bra. It's 1232. Lisa Aziz is here now with the headlines. 1236 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC questions that need answers. Who names the roads? It's a good question. That was Debbie, wasn't it? He wanted to know how come that's an avenue and that's a road and that's a walk and that's, I don't know, a boulevard or a promenade. Who does that? I'm pretty sure it's got to be linked to the council for new roads. But historically. Well, we'll find out. How much does electricity weigh? That's one of those lovely questions that could be genius or it could be quite incredibly dopey. We'll find out. Zero. 345-606-0973 and, of course, for Chris in Leeds. Why is Greensleep such a popular tune for ice cream vans? I got mate who's an ice cream man? Hello, Enzo. I'll see you. I probably won't see you later. I always track the seasons by whether or not Enzo's parked outside my daughter's school flogging his ice creams. It's quite nice when you make a connection with people. So we've got a mutual friend, Tony, who's a hairdresser. Arthur Razor over in Acton. So misses O'Brien dropped her credit card next to Enzo's ice cream van. Enzo picked it up, phoned Tony after razor in Acton. The hairdo. They're brilliant barbers where I go. And Tony phoned me. So that's like the bush telegraph of west London, the ice cream hairdresser. Gob on a stick. Community combining to create safety and happiness for my wife. 1238 is the time. Steve's in Whitechapel. Steve. Question or answer that. James. Sorry, I'm in Whitechapel. Answer. What's going on? What's going on today? Why have we got Whitechapel? Last bloke was called Mike. Not rich. You're not in. Where are you? Does that mean you are Steve, though? I asked. Carry on. Go on, mate. It's an answer. James. Street names. It is historical, so obviously not newer names, but the historically older streets, roads, avenues would all come from what was originally there. So news is a classic one. News would have been the stables. The street, the stables were that were backing on sort of big houses. So invariably, did she ask about. Because. I know, I know. Did she specifically are, mister, I could have shown off. And you've got. You've got the kudos for that one. So, yeah, greens. Another one. She said a green. There would have been a green there. And the reason why a lot of these areas in London would have had a green, it served a purpose. It was where compter was. It was where the watchman was. That was where they would lock drunk away for the night. And also some petty criminals. And also my expertise up in clerk. Oh, yeah, Islington Green, they would have. So upper street, which runs through ismith, would have been one of the main roads that leads down to Smithfield. So a lot of drovers would come through. If they lost any of their animals on the way, they would be kept on the green. Oh, blimey. For when he returned and he would pick up these stray animals. Well, lovely, lovely, lovely answer. Qualifications? I'm a taxi tour guide. I'm a clerk of northern guide and historian. Good man. Have you got a website? Yes. Go on. Discoveredundanbytaxi.com. That's great. I love it. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but we haven't closed the question down because I want to know if I build a housing estate tomorrow, who names those roads? Yeah. Well, then city councils intend to. They'll try and get some link to the area. But in terms of calling it a walk, a walk would have. It was only the Georgians that brought any street names in, was it? Well, yeah. I mean, before that, you'd have signifiers. I'll tell you where I was yesterday. See how good you are on the knowledge. Cockpit steps. Oh, yeah, yeah. Okay. Where 25 years ago? Well, it's not a road, it's only steps. So I don't know if you would know it. If I said, can you drop me off at cockpit steps? It's just a little staircase down by. Um. You are flipping eck. Now, come on. If I walk from Leicester Square to Victoria. We're really bringing in the welsh listeners with this one, Steve. I tell you, this is going to be going. This is going to be going down a storm in Leith. The big. What's the big part? The big part? What's the big part? Is it saying, what's the big part? Where the Pelicans. St James's. St James's park. Just the other side of St James's park. Cockpit steps up the stairs and there's a pub at the top of the steps called the two chairman Bing Bang bong. Round of applause for Steve. And the reason I mention it is now, here is the mark of a brilliant writer, okay? Robert Galbraith, which is the nom de plume that JK Rowling uses for her Kormoran strike novels that you probably have heard of or you may have seen on the telly. So I'm reading the new one, which is called Lethal white. I'm reading the new Cormorant Strike novel, and yesterday I had to go to my publishers. So yesterday I'm walking to Victoria, where my publishers is, and I notice that I'm walking up cockpit steps, and I had been reading about it the previous night in the new Cormoran Strike novel, and this is a mark of what an amazing writer she is, because even if I'd never heard of Harry Potter, Robert Galbraith's books would now be among my all time favorites. I walked past the two chairman, which is a public corner in strike, often drinks in, and she described the sign on it. And do you say she or he? I don't know, but anyway. And I actually, for a minute thought, oh, I'll just put my head around the door and see if Kormoran strikes in there. It's a fictional character. That's how fully created he is in my mind as I'm halfway through the book that I actually thought to myself, oh, I might just go and see if he's into you. Absolute prune. He's not real, honestly. I digress. Good work from Steve. Tommy's in Westminster. Tommy. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. I rang about the ice cream one, but the electricity one makes me sound cooler, so I'm touring. No, you've got to do the ice cream one. You're not allowed to change your mind live on air. Okay. Don't worry, it's licensing. Whenever it songs, it's always licensing. Greensleads is in the public domain, so nobody had to. No royalties, no public performance fees. I mean, theoretically, if Christian Leeds was here, he might say, well, there's lots and lots of other things there, but you wouldn't want Beethoven's fifth banging out of your ice cream van, would you? Well, there you go. And it's also quite a cheerful tune. It's a cheerful tune and it's free. Well, blue passports and all that. Yeah, it's just licensing qualifications charge the people. I'm an autistic savant, James. But how do you know this? I've encyclopedic knowledge about various music is one of them. I don't know if I can accept that as an answer. Well, you put me up against a professor a bunch of times and we've never disagreed yet. Go on, then, random claus. 1243 is the time. Ah, we got another professor. We haven't heard from Professor Martin for a while. Professor Martin is a professor of robotics at Middlesex University. Question or answer, Professor Martin? It's an answer. Carry on to the. Does electricity weigh anything? Yes. The answer is no, really? Although electrons weigh thing where have a mass. I can't remember what it is. Very, very, very tiny. If you apply a voltage to a wire, some electrons will go in one end and some electrons will come out the other end, but the wire won't get any heavier. Similarly, if you charge a capacitor, it doesn't get any heavier. Batteries are a little bit more difficult because what you're doing is they're not so much storing electricity as creating a chemical reaction. Right. And that. So the chemicals will have a mass that decreases as the reaction unfolds. Well, the mass will stay constant. You will get a bit of exothermic reaction, might see a little reduction in mass. It's going to be so fantastic. Yeah, but I just said exothermic, so we're all cool. Okay. So, Annette, when would an electron get introduced? I don't know much about this, as you've probably already gathered. When I charge up my phone, there's no. I'm not introducing electrons to my phone. You're not really. You're changing the chemical construction of your battery so they don't. So electricity doesn't weigh anything? That's right. Round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. I need to offer an apology as well. I misspoke when. It's because Chris Moore's makes me nervous. I got quite starstruck, that's what it is. Apparently, it's one of those urban myths that Henry VIII wrote Greensleeve for Anne Boleyn. I genuinely thought that was true, but I've been sent a couple of corrections saying that it is a well known misconception. It's italian in style of composition and did not reach England until after Henry's death, making it more likely to be elizabethan in origin. So now you know Catherine is in Croxley Green. Catherine, question or answer? I've got a question. Carry on. I would like to know why, when I'm watching the television, if I need to cop to the loo, I can pause it. You can? If I don't understand something in a complicated drama. Yeah, I can rewind it. Yes. Why can't I do that with my radio? You can. How? Well, you can't do it with your radio, but that's the same way that you couldn't do it with your, with your, with your old tv, could you? But why, why can't. Why isn't it possible to do that as easily. As easily with a television? It is. What radio do I need to be able to do that? The pure. The bug. I have to be careful here. Do we have any. Are we flogging? Do we have any interest in radio companies? I don't want to promote arrival, but I mean, if you google Paul's radio or something like that, you can do it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course you can. What if I'm in my car and I missed something and I want to. That's a little harder. A mate of mine's got a lexus that. He's got a radio in his lexus that you can rewind and pause. Well, I didn't know that. Yeah, no, nor did I until relatively recently. It's quite new technology. It's only because it has to be digital, you wouldn't be able to do it, so you need a digital. I understand that. And everyone's got, like, these dab radios and things in their cars, but there's no rewind button and there's no rewind button on a regular DAB radio. No, there isn't yet, but I imagine there will be. It depends on demand. I mean, what you've got to remember is not every radio program is like this one. You don't often get radio presenters who people think, oh, my God, he's so good, I'm going to listen to that again. And then they press rewind and then listen to it again, you know, but it's also if you miss, oh, who was that song by? I like that. And you think, well, it'd be nice. Just be able to rewind that. Yes. And hear that again. No, you can. And of course, don't forget, you can do it on. On demand anyway, or on websites. They'll have pause and rewind. There's lots of radio programs that you could still do now just by listening to them on your computer. Can you rewind? If I'm listening to this, let's say, on my iPad or something, I can rewind it. Can. I don't know. Sorry, I mean, I've given you a fairly good answer. I'm not. I'm not like the citizens. Technology is on its way to the mainstream. Yeah, it must be. Yeah, it must be. And good thing, too, actually, because particularly podcasts and stuff like that now becoming so popular, radio digital audio is becoming ever more popular, oddly. Catherine, great stuff. Round of applause for me. It's got 47 coming up. Why don't we wake up ourselves up with our own snoring much, much more often than we actually do? Zero 345-606-0973 how do streets get their names? Zero. 345-606-0973 and I think that's it, isn't it? You might have an expansion on the Greensleeves answer, suggested. It's. Where is it? Someone had something clever to say about why ice cream vans use greensleeves, about the key that it's written in and the catchiness. I don't know. Chris Morris, of course, wanted an answer to that question and he pooh poohed the question about snoring. I don't think fairly. I think, you know, if you do snore very loudly, it is surprising. It is indeed a mystery why you don't wake yourself up more often. Zero 345-606-0973 Peter is in Motherwell. Peter, question or answer? James. Carry on, Peter. How you doing, James? I'm pretty good, thank you. For the local street names. Oh, yes. Abel. It's a local council. Local councillor. Yeah. When there's. When there's a new road or something like that, whoever's a councilor in that area gets the privilege to name that street. What, the individual counselor gets the privilege of naming the street? Yep. My father was a councillor and he's actually. He was actually the person that named the house. I see. The 11th. So the street you live on now was named by your dad when he was a local councilor? Yep. What's it called? Jenny Lee Drive. Jenny Lee? Who's Jenny Lee? Lee was a Labor MP in the 1940s. I think she's one of the first women MP's. And so they've commemorated your. You. So your dad was a Labor councillor and he wanted to commemorate a vote. Well, that's fascinating. I mean, it's obviously true in your specific case, but I can't imagine it's true up and down the country, otherwise. What sort of. What sort of. What sort of a plonker would call it? Sort of, you know, Acacia Avenue or something like that. But I think. I think in one of the areas in Scotland, delete the public name as well. Funny. That's how you end up with Boaty McBoatface, though. Yeah, that's it. You need to be very careful. You should only trust them with the silly stuff like brexit referendums. I won't if I get finished. Round of applause for Peter. I love that. That's a lovely answer. And whoa. Wrong button. Round of applause for Peter. Thanks, James. Cheers. Take care. How do you. Bye. There you go. Oh, wow. We've got. Something's gone wrong with our buttons. Don't worry, it's all cool. Melissa is probably miles again. Is it? Has he come? Has he been sabotaging our production desk? Melissa is in Edinburgh. Can we put that on hold for Peter? He's owed a round of applause. Staying in Scotland. Question or answer, Melissa? Question, please, James, carry on. Does sign language have rhyming words and, like, rhyming gestures? How would it. Well, surely. I mean. So my original question was, actually, do people are born deaf? Understand the sound of rhyme? But I was allowed to have that question before, so that was an offshoot. Right. Do they have rhyming words? Do they understand you? Must you have a voice? Even if you're deaf, you have a voice in your head. I would have thought when you read, would you not? How would you. How do they get that voice in their head? I don't know, but this isn't really. Yes, I can see why you were discouraged from asking the original question. It's too big, isn't it? And if someone was born profoundly deaf, their experience is going to be different from someone who's lost their hearing over a period of time. So if you were born profoundly deaf, there's a problem with your question in that nobody profoundly deaf is going to be listening to be able to answer it. Well, surely some people have done research into that sort of thing. How? I don't know. Very clever people. Much more clever than me. No. Well, that's the point. They're probably not. It's not a question of cleverness. You can't. I don't know how you do research into what profoundly deaf people do without asking them questions. You can answer the questions in writing, but then that, in a way, answers your question for you. Rhyming as a concept is an audio phenomenon. I mean, I'll read out the question, does sign language have rhyming words and sounds? And I'll resist the urge to say, that's a really silly question, and I'll see if anyone can answer it on zero. 345-606-0973 what are we doing now? I can squeeze in a couple. Peter, are you still there? Yep, I've got you. I got this for you, mate. We found one in the bottom drawer. There you go. Yeah. So a street got named after your dad as well, and that's. The local councilor named that after my dad and that was one of his former colleagues and mates who decided to name a street after him. So what's that street called? Hoy's drive. Say again? Hoy's drive. Hoy's drive. And that's in Motherwell? Yeah. Fantastic. Oh, I love that. It's one of my favorite answers ever because it's so personal. It's almost Rayleigh otter territory. But I don't think it's true across the whole piece. I think if I built a housing estate tomorrow and I wanted to have Sheila Fogarty Crescent, I think I'd have to clear it with the council, but I wouldn't necessarily have to give them the right to name it. I don't know. Jake's in Tavistock. Jake, question or answer? It's a question, please. This is like what Chris Moyles was talking about. Why did you afford it? The Chris Moyles slot? Let's not ever use the phrase Chris Moore's slot ever again. Chris from Leeds. Chris from Leeds. It is exactly 1257. And you have come on to ask a question in the knowledge that the likelihood of getting an answer is pretty much nil. But let's see how we get on. I'm a team player. Good man. Sea level is often given as an exact number for things such as mountains and the like. Yes. If you go to any of the beautiful beaches in Devon, you'll see that sea level varies wildly at times. Yes. So the question is, is sea level taken from low tide? High tide an average. It's a good question. I reckon you could get an answer. We've got a minute and 15 seconds. Is sea level calculated from high tide or low tide? Where is sea level calculated from? Ok, go zero. 345-606-0973 nice one, Jake. George is in Harrow, Georgia. Question or answer? A sort of an answer to the deaf thing. Really? Go on. Yes. Well, I tell you why. Because I used to talk to deaf people a lot. A couple of years ago, I was involved in the local deaf club. Okay, cool. A lot of deaf people have a very low reading age, right. Because they don't learn the sounds. They never understand the sounds of words and letters. Yes. So a lot of people, this is why they were so important to bring british sign language in. In councils and in the. And the government. I think one of the Brent MP brought in didn't she. Because people who are profoundly deaf from birth learn sign language. That is their first language. Yes. And when I was talking to a woman who was. Had relatives who were deaf, that's why we were at the group, she said, a lot of deaf people, profoundly deaf have a reading age of sort of eleven, because they never understand that a t sounds like a t. Yes. They just can't hear it. I mean, it is an utterly alien concept. Exactly. And this is why it's so important that we use british sign language and not subtitles, because a lot of deaf people have problems reading the subtitles, but they haven't learned BSL. Well, it was, in a way, it was a rubbish question, but it came out with quite a good answer. Well, because if they can't hear the rhyme, then how are you ever going to have a concept of what rhyme is? They don't know. A t sounds like a ta go, Georgia. Round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. Did we get a sea level answer? Anyone have a crack at what? Well, this is in the spirit of Chris Moyles. I said, Sheila Fergity sometimes knows the answer. I haven't googled it, so I don't know the answer. And on that bombshell, can we have a champagne reception at my street naming Sheila Fogarty Crescent? Yes. I was thinking more dandelion and Burdock Vimto. Yes, exactly. Thank you very much, James.