Why are the keys on a piano black and white?

LBC. Three minutes after twelve is the time. And my goodness me, are we ready for a mystery hour this week? It comes usually with two guarantees. Although, given that everything else that we took to be unassailable in recent months has been torn up like an old newspaper, maybe today's the day my guarantees will be broken too, just like democracy is. The guarantees are these. You will laugh out loud between now and 01:00. All right, promise. And secondly, you'll know more than you do now. It may not be knowledge for which you end up being particularly grateful, or indeed find in any way useful, and you will probably have forgotten it by 01:30 but between now and 01:00 something will happen on this radio program that will add to the sum total of your knowledge of the world around you. It's never gone wrong yet. Okay, the way it works is like a radio equivalent, a real life, a real time equivalent, of those newspaper and magazine columns where somebody writes in with a question and then they hope that several weeks, days, months later, then another reader will write in with the answer, why do we do that, James? Does that ever happen? What's that all about? What's the origin of this? Where does that come from? Who? Why? What? Where? When? What happened? What resulted? We do the occasional wither, even the odd wherefore. Very rarely do we do a whence, but there's always room for whences. The point is this, any question at all will do, whether it's silly or serious. If I tell you that, for example, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton is one of the most frequent repliers, answerers of questions, you'll get an idea that there can be academic questions, but equally, someone who rings in, and when I say, how do you know the answer to that? What are your qualifications? They'll say, I saw it on telly last night, and there you have it, literally. It could be because it was the thesis, it was the subject of your PhD thesis. That's how you know the answer to this. Or it could be that you saw Mythbusters on Dave last week or Dave Attenborough on the BBC last night. That's the way it goes. The number you need to get your question on the board is zero 345-606-0973 and I think that's pretty much it isn't. It guarantees. Oh, yes. Two other little observations. Repetition and dullness are our enemies. Dullness, defined as, for these purposes, something like a question that only you would be interested in. The answer to. The best one ever to illustrate that was some bloke had a roundabout near his house and there was one exit on the roundabout that you're not allowed to go down. And he wanted to know where it led. And I sort of thought this was before we were a national station. We were still London based. But I did find myself thinking, I'm pretty confident no one else listening either knows what he's talking about or cares what the answer is. So that's when we came up with the dullness rule. If your question is related to motoring, it runs a very real risk of falling into the dullness rule and repetition, which isn't really your lookout. There is. What's it? There is an archive on the website at LBC dot co dot UK, a way of checking what we've done in the past. So you can do that. But obviously, it's kind of my job as the longest serving member of the team, the mystery hour team, it's my job to look out for questions that we've answered before and my memory is like swiss cheese. So, frankly, you're quite likely to sneak under the wire on the repetition question and somehow the bar has been low quite recently. You're probably going to sneak under the bar on the dullness question as well. But I reserve the right to get cross if you get through with a rubbish question. No pressure, though. Helen's in Etchingham. Helen, question or answer an answer? I do. Every week. You say, that's the first corner and it tickles me. Every week. I can't believe I'm on first and I can do that. You're here. Yeah, you've done it. You've made a joke that millions of people have dreamt of making over. I don't know why I do it either, but I just like to get into the zone. I get into the zone, no problem. It's a question. James, if I may. It came out of the fairly random conversation with my eight year old son, starting with, I need you to speak to James, which, out of context, I was going, James who? And he's going, James, James, I need you to speak to James. Anyway. Oh, that's made my day. Matthew. I know. Bless him. Little Matthew. Thank you. He wishes to know, are there any other animals in the world that sleepwalk apart from humans? Oh, I like that question. I love the idea of sheep sleepwalking in a field or getting up and sheep walking. Very good. Or my cat wandering around or whatever, but I kind of thought, I wonder if possibly primates, because we're so close to. We had a question a couple of weeks ago about birds and how long they can go without landing. And there is a kind of. I don't know if it would count as sleepwalking because it's different evolutionarily, but they can sort of still flap while flying. But that's not what you mean. You mean something comparable to the human being asleep while apparently being awake. Exactly. And having a disturbing dream or whatever. And it gets them up and about and moving around, but they're obviously not conscious of it. Does Matthew sleepwalk or does anyone in the house sleepwalk? No, no, not yet. I used to crazily, but Matthew. No, no. He's a bit young at the moment, but give it time. He's mad enough. Love it, love it, love it, love it. It's on the list. Do any other animals, any other mammals sleepwalk? I don't imagine we'd be able to say it. How could we know definitively, though? Because a cat can't tell you whether he's asleep or awake. Have his eyes shut. Oh, this could be a lot of fun. Or it could crash and burn early. Let's find out. Zero 345-606-0973 do any animals sleep? Well, that's not for me. It's for Matthew. It's not for Helen. It's for Matthew. Don't forget that fills in in Milwaukee. Hello, Phil. How are you? We've just done 2 hours on american blinking politics, and you've rung in second on mystery hour from Milwaukee. Man, what's going on? Well, it's a pleasure to talk to you, James. Likewise, Phil. Thank you for taking my call. No, you're very welcome. What's your question? I have a question, please. This came about by watching that cartoon pig export that we get over here, the one that likes to jump around the muddy puddles. One of the characters is. That's the one. And that phrase haunts my dreams because I've watched every episode so many times. You and me both, Phil. You and me both. One of the characters on there is always portrayed as having the answer and is always called a clever clock. And I was wondering, what is the origin of that phrase? That's a lovely mystery hour question. How long have you been listening to mystery hour in Milwaukee, Phil? I've been listening to the podcast for several years, since it appeared on a search that said it's one of the best podcasts you can listen to. While my wife and I have visited your country several times, and we like bringing London over here. Although the current political season seems to make Brexit coming over here as well, so kind of don't like that much. Lovely contribution. It's a great question as well. You brought so much into it. Brexit politics, transatlantic fondness, the special relationship. And of course, for people not aware of what I was whistling about and Phil was talking about Peppa Pig, one of the iconic children's television programs of our time. I will get you an answer to this, Phil, if it kills me. You take care of yourself. What is the origin of the phrase clever clogs? And do any other creatures apart from humans sleepwalk? Roz is in Barnet. Roz, question or answer? Question. Go on, then. I'd like to know why a bust is called a bust, where it comes from. Well, a bust as in a statue of a human head? Yes. Yeah, yeah. Women's chest. Head. Yeah. So not a statue of a human head, but a woman's bazoomers. Why? Bazuma's called bust. Yeah, exactly. Why do you want to know that? Well, I don't know, because this morning we was actually just thinking. We were listening to a song called Junior's busting out all over. Yeah. Not the same sort of thing. Depends how you take it. Who's that in the background? Why has he got you to ring in and talk about Bazuma's when he should have been doing it himself? But, yeah, so we were discussing. But isn't that like any word? Why is any word any word? So why do we call a car a car? Why do we call a camera a camera? What? What? Yeah, sure. That's true. Why do we call a lady's chest a bust? Yes. All right, I'll try and find out for you. I don't call it a bust. I call it an ombom pom bom. Oh, right. Okay. I think I might have said it wrong. Eleven minutes after twelve. Roz, why do we call Bazuma's bust? What's the origins of the phrase clever clogs? And does any other creature sleepwalk apart from the human? Duncan is in Acton. Duncan, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's a question. Please, mate. Carry on. Duncan. If we are in, obviously we sweat when we're hot and the human body reduces. What's your phone lines? Three phone lines in a row. I gave Milwaukee Phil a break because he was ringing from Milwaukee. I gave Ros a break because she had her husband talking about boobs in the background, and I think she was distracted. Why is your phone line so rubbish? I don't know. It might be a bit windy. Stand still. Stand still. Phil Duncan. Thank you. Go on. We sweat when we're hot. But do we sweat while we're in hot water? Yes. Do we? So our body knows that we're submerged in hot water, so it doesn't sweat. Am I gonna. Isn't it? Don't you get. Are you thirsty after you've had a swim? A little bit, yeah. There you go. Science, that. Yeah. Maybe. You're not taking that? No. No, not really. Do you think that the answer might involve osmosis? It could very well be. I'm not sure that it does. I didn't know that that was working today. I'd forgotten about that. That's an astonishing bit of coding that we've done there. Every time the radio picks up the word, off goes the hallelujah. Cause I'll find out for you. Do we sweat in water? It doesn't matter whether it's hot or cold, does it? Or is there a difference? I wouldn't have thought that we would sweat if the water was cold, but if. Why not? You sweat when the weather's cold. You sweat when you're running in the cold. Why wouldn't you sweat in cold? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. If our temperature goes up and our body needs to cool itself down, do we sweat or does it realize that we're in water? So there's no point in sweating. You must sweat in hot water, because otherwise you wouldn't sweat in a sauna, would you? Well, no, but your head above the water would sweat. But if we're submerged, does the body know that the rest of our body is covered in water? So what's the point of sweating? You see what I mean? Yes. Because you're expecting to somehow absorb the water rather than expel it. Except it's not water, it's salt. Okay. Yeah, I like the question. I feel I've got an answer just. Just within my reach. But that's why I'm waffling and playing the hallelujah chorus and pretending that it's all about machine coding in the hope that the answer will just pop into my. It's not happening for me, Duncan. I got nothing. I got nothing. I'm sorry. I'll put it on the board. We'll find out for you. Do we sweat in hot water? Why is a lady's chest called a bust? A woman's chest called a bust? Origins of the phrase clever clogs. And does any other creature say walk? Gary is on the M 25. Question or answer. Gary it's an answer, James. Go on. Then. It's dogs. They sleepwalk or sleep run, if you like. Do they? Yes, on YouTube. It's really funny. Shut the front door. Really? Yeah, there is. How do you know they're asleep? How do you know they're asleep? Then? They're on the floor in their bed and you can see they're asleep and they start to dream and their legs start to go. So they're running and then I get traction and one of them actually runs up the wall. So they're not. It's not sleepwalking in the sense that we do it, then they don't. They're not going to go downstairs and eat their pedigree chum and not know in the morning that they've done it. Why would they be upstairs, anyway? So you can see the legs go and then. Yeah. You see the legs go, then they get traction and off they go. They're up. They're up the wall, they're asleep. When he gets up the wall, he wakes up pretty drastically. How old are you? How old are you? I'm 44 and I spent most of my thirties thinking that all these clips and stuff on the Internet was all a load of rubbish. But I'm addicted to them now. They're so funny. Some of them. Some of the animal ones are really. I mean, I'm an animal lover. I've got two dogs and five cats, but some of the animal ones are so, so funny. I know, I just. I just thought. I'm regressing. I thought. I thought. Anyway, I'm gonna give you a round of applause. Thank you very much. Not first one. No, you're very welcome. But I'm keeping the question open in the hope that we can find evidence of actual, you know, going for a walk type stuff, rather than. All right, but you got your round. APPlAuse so you don't care. Gary's cool. It's 1215. This is lb on LBC, 20 minutes after twelve. Matt Fry with you, of course, on Saturday. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour underway. Questions still in need of answers. I'll take further on the sleepwalking question, although Gary got himself a round of applause for telling us that he has seen a sleepwalking dog on. On YouTube. And now so have I. Thank you to everybody who sent me the clip of it. If you follow me on Twitter, I'mrjames amsob. I've just retweeted that footage. It's only 23 seconds of your life. That you will never get back. But I don't how many people have sent it to. It's going nuts now. I think this is the problem, though, isn't it? This is globalization in action. I'm going to sack all the producers soon. I'll let you do it all. I'll just say something on air and then you'll bombard me with answers on Twitter, and that'll be a radio show. So thank you to everybody who sent me the clip of biscuit the sleepwalking dog. If you want to see it for yourself, just head over to Twitter and it's the last thing to come out of my account. 21 minutes after twelve is the time. Why do we call a woman's decolletage a bust? I know it's a slightly daft question, because now you could ring in and say, why do we call a woman's bust a decolletage? But bust, just that word, bust, it applies to the statue of her head and shoulders. Why does it also apply to women's breasts? Clever. Clogs, the origin of that phrase. And can you sweat in hot water? Do we sweat in hot water? Eleanor is in kentish town. Question or answer, Eleanor? Question, please, James, carry on. Why? I was recently prescribed a medication, why do people given the same dosage, regardless of their weight? So I'm quite small and what, you know, there were women there who were quite large, but we were all given the same dosage. Why? Hmm. I can give you the name of the drug. I don't know if it's all drugs, but it seems to be all drugs. Well, it usually when we have. When we any, like, painkillers, it just does. It gives you some advice on age, doesn't it? Like not giving it to children, which you presume has something to do with their size. But you're right, a sort of 40 stone. I mean, with alcohol, obviously, the bigger you are, the more you can drink, without being over the limit, I think. And the smaller you are, vice versa. So why with drugs, is it a one size space? I like that question. I love that question. You're on. I can't believe we've never had that before. Are you all right? It's not. You're gonna be okay. I'm okay. I just refused the drug. Why? Because I researched it myself and I'm not convinced it would work. And the side effects were hideous. I'll take my chances. Okay. Eleanor? Yeah. You know me, I'm a bit old fashioned with doctors and stuff like that, but I don't want to I don't want to spoil mystery out with a lecture. So, yes, of course, you know where you are and you know what you're doing. Why does medication not respect the way of the patient? It's actually a very good question, that it's not strictly true. And I know. So. I know one girl, she's built like a biro and she can drink me under there, my friend. She lives in Australia now. She's coming over for Christmas, actually, I must get some booze in. She can drink until everybody around the table has fallen apart. And she's. I swear to you, she's like a sylph. She's absolutely tiny. And I've got another mate who's huge. Used to be a prop forward. One pint. One pint Pete. We called him prop forward in the school rugby tip. One pint and he's gone. So, you know, it's not strictly true, but I'd love to know what the official answer is. Why does medication, given that you have smaller doses for children, presumably because of their size. Why doesn't it reflect weight and size for adults? Michael is in tunbridge Wells. Michael, question or answer? It's an answer to the clever clogs question. Well, some years ago, saw historical drama and the reference there referred to a fellow or a man as boots. And I'm wondering whether the phrase clever boots was the original phrase and it may have got changed to clever clogs because it's alliteration. It sounds better. Why would clever boots even be a thing, though? Well, because you. If a man or fellow was preferred in that day and age to. As boots, he would just say clever boots and a clever man. Clever, clever guy. Why not just say clever guy? Why boots? Why bring boots into it? Because that's. That's what. That's what. In the 17th century, men, or men, were often referred to that phrase. They were called boots, you know, as a slang. Of course they were. How many boots do you need for this job? Yeah. That kind of thing. Right. Yes. So. So then clever boots does actually mean clever guy. It's not a reference to footwear. And then because clogs has got a neater alliterative. Yeah. It might get changed to that. That's. That's my theory. Qualifications. You saw on the ten. Yeah, freight. So, yeah, Wayne and Wayne Embassy. Well, it actually is because Wayne Embassy has pushed you over the line. He was so desperate to get. To get. To get on, he's tweeted it instead of phoning it in. And he says it is the etymology, because he bought. I don't know if you have listened for long enough to be familiar with Wayne in Basildon. He bought Brewer's dictionary of phrase and fable about six years ago in order to get. To get on mystery hour as much as possible. And I know he's read it from COVID to cover, so I know that you're right, because he's already been in touch on Twitter to say boots meant fellow back in the day. Yeah. Round of applause for Michael. But not. None of. Stop. None of this. None of this is for Wayne. All right? It's all for Michael. Good work, Michael. No, thank you very much. 25 minutes after, so we can cross that one off. Nice one. Sleep walking animals are still on the board, even though you can go and have a look at Bizkit amesob on Twitter, because I just want to know if your dog can actually go in it when it can't open doors and stuff like that, can it? So all it's ever going to do is what this dog on the Internet does, which is sort of run without getting up and then sort of end up rolling onto its legs and running headlong into a wall. Mike is in where we go next. Mike is in Fulham. Question or answer, Mike? Good morning. Mine is a question. It's about sentences rather than words. Yes. There seems to be a great propensity amongst younger generation nowadays to speak, and at the end of the sentence it goes up. God, it makes my skin crawl. And it does me too. And I would like to know where it all comes from. I believe in America and Australia, it's huge. But it's also coming over here as well. And it makes me mad. It started with neighbors. Mike, do you remember neighbors? Yes, I do. I do. I didn't watch it very often, but I did. I said I was of an age where a mark of having a really productive day was when you managed to watch it twice in the same twelve hour period. You'd watch the lunchtime episode and then you'd still be on the sofa when the afternoon episode came around. That's what we used to call being a student before they got all conscientious and hard working. And that's two things happened when neighbours was on. We started saying uni instead of university, which also drives me a little bit potty, but that's pedantic. And we started doing. There's a word for it. I can't remember what the word is, like uptoning or something like that, and then it's just. It's just proliferated. With America. My eight year old has watches a lot of gymnastics videos on YouTube. She loves gymnastics and they do little commentaries, these children doing their gymnastics. And she has. I've caught her doing it. So it comes. It comes from American Australia, you're quite right. But television in the first instance. But now these. These videos. Children of a certain age are more likely to be watching a YouTube channel on the Internet than they are to be watching a traditional television station. So they're hearing constantly californian inflections where everything goes up at the end of the sentence. Absolutely. I got 212 year olds and a 14 year old and they are beginning to say it and I'm getting so mad about it. But why didn't you ask them why they do it? Are you sure that's the absolute definite start in labor in Australia? Positive. Absolutely positive. Ask your twelve year old, say to them, why do you just talk up at the end of every sentence? Let's see what they say. What do they watch? Are they watching the telly? Are they watching the thing? High rising terminal, it's called. Don't even know they're doing it at times. They don't even know they're doing it at that. You're damn right, mate. Ridiculous. And it's destroying the English language, which is the greatest language in the world. It is the greatest language in the world. It's not been destroyed by an inflection, but it just sounds a bit ignorant, I find. But then maybe we're just old fogies, Mike, and we need to move with the times. I'm using a too strong word, destroy. But it's upsetting the English language. It is upsetting the english language. And my thanks to Beverly Turner. My LBC colleague will be with you on Saturday evening for. But for sending that. Forgive me for butting in. It's called a high rising terminal. It's called a. Sorry, I beg your pardon? It's called a high rising terminal. It's like everything sounds like a question. Do you know what I mean, Mike? Does. He lives with it. I live with it. Drives me absolutely potty. Zaid is in Nottingham. Question or answer? Zaid. I've got an answer. Oh, hang on, wait there. Hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on. Didn't we forget something there? Thank you very much. I'll leave a little bit of that to Beverly for giving me the phrase a high rising terminal back to Zayed. What's your answer, mate? Yeah, so, it's just regarding the lady who called in about the drug dosing? Yes. Essentially, there are some drugs that we do weigh people on because it is important about their weight, because it depends on how the body sort of metabolizes and gets rid of the drug. However, for most drugs, just one dose is simple enough. I mean, though we have certain preparations of drugs and we might not have the right shank for their weight. However, generally speaking, this specific dose is fine. The thing is, when we give people a drug, there's always the risk of a side effect, and we don't want to precipitate a side effect unnecessarily and put the person off the drug when we can always, if need be, increase the drug dose at a later date. I think the actual drug that she's taking is quite important in this context. But generally speaking, from my experience, most drugs can give a certain dose, and it will do the same for a small person and a big person. There are certain drugs you do need to weigh people for. You might do a bigger dose for, but generally speaking, most drugs can get weigh with a certain dose. And is it anything to do? Sally was in touch in a rather self deprecating fashion to say, I have a normal sized body under all my fat. Is that relevant to your answer? There are some relevance because some drugs, they dissolve in fat, for example, and so the amount of body fat will vary what dose you give of the drug. But for most drugs, it doesn't really matter, to be honest. And we'd rather give a standardized dose and then increase a later date, if need be, rather than give a big dose and then maybe cause unnecessary side effects. Qualifications aide? No, I'm a doctor. Can't say fairer than that. Lovely. Thank you. No, thank you. 12:30 is the time. Simon Conway's here now with the LBC headlines. The justice secretary is admitting they're a very iron on LBC. 1234 is the time. Do we sweat in hot water? Why is a woman's chest called a bust? And do any other animals than us sleepwalk? We've, excuse me, half answered that question. There's room for plenty more. And I now have three phone lines free. First time since 10:00 actually, this morning that we've had any room on the switchboard. So if you want to grab one of those with either an answer to those questions that I've just reminded you of, or a question of your own, there is bags of time, actually, and I mean that because sometimes we get questions on quite late, we don't have time to answer them. So if you've got a burning question. If you're new to mystery, Aaron, now you've got the hang of it, you can see what it's all about. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you're providing an answer. You're not, obviously. At least I think it's obvious. But of course it isn't. If you're new to this, you can't look it up. You only ring in with an answer that you already know. You might know it because you read a book last week, but you can't google it now or read the book now. It's a celebration of knowledge, enlightenment, education, which is why Professor Hal, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, is such a regular contributor to the program, although it has been a while. Here he is. Hello, James. Everything under control? Well, apart from your Bazuma's comment. I know, scientific discussion and you're talking about Bazuma. It was a little inappropriate. I apologize for that. Can't call you can't. Can't say things like that anymore. It's political correctness gone mad. Have you got a question or an answer for me? As if I didn't know. I'd like to have a commentary about the sweating one. Yes, of course. Nice question. Let's just go back a bit and talk about why we sweat in the first place. We are heat generators. So your body's core is oxidizing glucose all the time and making heat. And that has to go somewhere because you got very. We're very intolerant to high temperature changes. You know, if you go up by a degree or two, it can be almost fatal. So the way we get rid of that heat is, first of all, divert blood to our fingers, which are excellent radiators, because of their. Which is why they get cold. When you get cold are the first things to get cold. But also we. Extremities. They're called extremities. Yes, fingers and toes, but in the context of frostbite and things like that, they are your extremities. That's why I now know why you're brilliant. There you go. You see, that's one guarantee. I don't know if we're going to get the laugh out loud, but you now know something you didn't know before. Go on. Yes, well, the other way we do it is by exuding water. Now, water is interesting. It's a very, very unusual compound, but because it hides in plain sight, we don't pay much attention to it. For example, solid water floats. That's really unusual, but it has a very, very high heat capacity, which means you have to put an awful lot of heat into it to raise its temperature by one degree. It has a high heat capacity, so we exude water and the passing air causes it to evaporate and as it evaporates, it uses up your internal energy in the latent heat of vaporization. So it takes four point joules per gram per degree c to raise the temperature of water. So the answer to the contributors question is no. We don't know whether we're surrounded by hot air or hot water, so we would sweat in warm water. But the other interesting learning outcome for this discussion is that's why if someone's overheating, you use cold water, not cold air, to cool them down, because the water takes far, far more of the energy away from them. Qualifications? Cub scout badge and science. Seriously? I have got a Cub Scout badge. We didn't do that at Cubs. No, and I'm a professor of public understanding at the University of Brighton. Cool. You got yourself a round of applause. Doesn't involve the o word at all, then? No, actually it does and I said it to the researcher and they said, don't say that to change. Don't say what? If you sit in, don't say what, of course. Did they really? I'll tell you what, heads are going to roll. They're getting. They're getting away from my word button. They're trying to steal. If you're in the sea, in salty water, you have osmosis from the body into the sea. Sorry, mate, I'm just going to turn it down now. You carry on. You can say it a couple of times without setting the alarm. If you had a bath in distilled water, it would work the other way because you are a bag of salt, effectively, and water always tries to go from a low concentration of salt to a high concentration of salt through a semi permeable membrane. Yes, it does. I love that phrase, a semi permeable membrane. It's not up there with niblets, but it's got a lovely ring to it. Round of applause for the professor, please. Well played. 38 minutes after twelve is the time. Steve is in Bexley Heath. Question or answer, Steve? It's a musical question, James. Oh, yes, it is. If you look at a piano keyboard, there's more white keys than black keys and my understanding is that all notes have a sharp and a flat, but for some reason there's less sharps and flats than there are normal notes and I just need to understand why. I think the pianos were designed by a white supremacist. Just getting a bit topical for you there. During mystery, the black teams have to sign up and put themselves on a list as well. It's just a matter of time. Isn't b sharp the same as c flat or am I being really stupid? I think some of them, yeah, I think a, a sharp b flat are the same. But you would think if they all had a sharp and a flat, there'd be as many white keys as black keys. But there aren't. There'd be as many black keys as on purpose. Or do these notes not exist? And if they don't exist, why do some not have sharps and flats and others do like it? Do you play? No. If I did, I'd probably know they aren't. Well, I don't know that you would, actually. We'll try and find out. Why are there so many more white keys than black keys on a piano keyboard? It's a lovely question. My favorite sort of questions are the ones that involve things you've walked past every day. I know not everybody has, but we've got a piano at home and walk past every day and never really occurred to you. But actually it's a good, good quality mystery. That isn't. It is. No. Thank you very much. Get an answer for Steve, please, in all the usual ways. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need to answer that or indeed any other. Um, Chris is in Brixton. Chris, question or answer? Well, it's an attempt to. An answer. Let's do it again. A bit of confidence, Chris, come on. Question or answer? Answer. Good man. Bring it on. Yeah. Well, the reason for the diffidence is this is a tad controversial and I don't necessarily agree with it. Oh, so bit of a disclaimer there. To be fair, mister is usually a controversy free zone. The only controversies on mystery are involved me making a prune of myself. But you're in there now, mate. You crack on. Right. The suggestion is the totally annoying, apparently australian habit of answering ever of ending every sentence as if there's a question. Yes, HRT is also known as AQI, australian question inflection, or the moronic interrogative, as I prefer to call it. Oh, brilliant. Anyway, there was a bit in the Guardian regarding this because it truly doing it, you know, basically, this becoming fairly part of our lingua franca really winds me up. Yeah, me too. And one of my five adult kids has taken to doing it well, that's, you know, not got. That's not a good. Got a good reception. No, it's not. It's not. So this, of course, required me to get online, and the Guardian online did well, proposed a suggested rationale for why. Right. So this is not my opinion. Get on with it, man. Come on. Basically, Australia's got massive chip on shoulder as a result of cultural inheritance, imperialist inheritance, and therefore are insecure in their position, thus always ending a sentence with a question rather than a definitive statement. Oh, that's absolutely fascinating, because somebody suggested that it might be a mark of our age where. Where certainties are sort of, now everything's debatable. Things that were once certainties are no longer certainty, so they now speak as if everything is a question. But the idea that Australia is so lacking in confidence, it seems a little unlikely given most of the Australians. I know. Not my experience, mate, that's for sure. I'm going to give you a round of applause for a quality contribution. Good work. 1242. I love the idea. The Australians are so sort of culturally insecure that they've turned everything into a question. It might have. Might have something in it, I don't know. But we've had a couple of answers to that and it was a brilliant question. No sleepwalking dogs yet. No. No advance on Bizkit, who you can see sleepwalking on Twitter at mrjamesob. Ron is in Bethnal Green. Question or answer, Ron? It's a question, James. Even though my son's going to be annoyed that I've got through, and I'm asking one of my own, papa power, I don't think he should be good enough to get through, to be fair. Go on. My question is, obviously, across the world, we've got times, yeah. So certain places are 6 hours behind, 6 hours in front and stuff, but the minute is always the same. So if I'm going to call South America half past, it's always going to be half past. I was just wondering, how did we synchronize the world to the exact minute? Well, is that a really good question or a really bad one, Ron? I think it's a good one, because. Is your son around? Is it too late? Is it too late for a late substitution? Can we bring your boy off the bench? He listens to the podcast. So when he's gonna probably say, yeah, mine was a lot better, but you start off with. You start off, let's say, with Greenwich meantime. Right? Yeah. And then you just. For reasons of convenience different. You only go for an hour difference time zone wise. You count it in hours, it'd be dark to count it in. That was our minute we all agreed with when we started circumnavigating and sailing around the place. So did we say the time in? Mocking me. You're mocking me for trying to answer your rubbish question. So you say, how come there was one man or a group of people that went around the world and said, why? This is now 17 minutes past, we say, so that's it, yeah. No, they never said it was 17 minutes past. They just said, you're an hour ahead of us. Or you're an hour behind us. No, 10 hours. What do you think, then? I don't know. That's what I'm saying. I'm giving you an answer. I mean, what else could it be not to give the answer to the question, are I? All right, then. So how come we don't. How come we're not 17 minutes behind places? Well, I think we are. Well, there you go. But they round it up so they don't bother saying, so if you were in part of America. No. I don't know, actually. Maybe. It is a brilliant question. It's making my teeth itch. It's usually a good sign. It's true as well. Before Internet times and all that. So how did we think there might be a 30 minutes difference between Sri Lanka and India? Really? I don't know. I just read that on Twitter. It's probably rubbish. All right, you're on. So, kind of, how do we all match it up, then, to the hour? To the nearest hour. Why are time zone differences to the. No. The nearest hour? It's not to the nearest minute, it's to the nearest hour. No. So, point of your. The hours is fair enough. You can say, yeah, you're 6 hours behind and whatever, but that's. It's not that. The minutes all match up, don't they? North Korea is eight and a half hours ahead of GMT. North Korea. Stop talking, I'm being brilliant. North Korea is eight and a half hours ahead of GMT. Well, why they got to be different? Sri Lanka is five and a half hours ahead of UTC. What's UTC? The University of time clocks. Yeah, well done. Yeah, clever lad. Questions on the board, but I'm not sure. I'm not sure either of us quite get it wrong, but I'm going to leave it up there. Give my regards to your son. Tell him, next time. Tell him, next time. Unplug the phone before he goes out. Yes. 1246 Mark riders in the LBC travel center. Thanks, James. Good afternoon. In west London, Labbrook Grove is LBC. Ten minutes to one is the time you're listening to mystery hour on LBC, where questions that still need an answer are quite thin on the ground. Actually, I could do with a sleepwalking hamster. If you've got 10. 345-606-0973 or any other non human sleepwalker, why is a woman's decolletage en bon pon bon breast area, chest called bust? Why bust when it also applies, of course, to a cast of a head and shoulders? And why are there more white keys than black keys on a piano? I kind of know that, but I don't have the tools to explain, if you know what I mean. And similarly with the time zones, why are they rounded up to the nearest. Well, often to the nearest hour. But I've just learned. And I said you'd learn something new on mystery. Actually, the nearest half hour. Someone else just told me that Bristol used to be on a time zone until. Was it Brunel built the railway? Really? Bristol? Different times under GMT. I suppose it's possible. Marianne, how do you know? I can't say your name without thinking of Leonard Cohen. Isn't that sad? Or sort of poignant? Anyway, I just suddenly thought. Oh, Marianne. Anyway, sorry. Marianne Watford, what would you like? What have you got for me? A question or an answer? I. I have got a question. What is. Yes. What is the theoretical limit of the human lifespan? So in terms of. In the absence of disease or how long could a human potentially live? What's. Is there, like, a limit to how long the human can live? You're doing that thing at the end of your sentences we don't like anymore. We're banning from the program. I'm fairly young. That's fairly close. What are you suggesting? Well, in the absence of what, though, do you see what I mean? Because the limit on how long a human can live is how long humans have lived. Oh, yeah. But my question was, basically, I had a relative who died not too long ago. She was born in 1921 and she lived to be 94 of age and in reasonably good physical and mental health. And I know that some people can live to be like, I don't know, 100, 1018, possibly, is the question. Really? Then why can't we live forever? What is it that stops us living forever? Yeah. Literally? Yeah. Okay. I like that. Because in the absence of disease and conditions, degenerative conditions, conditions, what is it that actually causes death. Why can't we live forever? What is the limit? What put. What puts a limit on the human life? So, Marianne, great question. Love it. Actually. 1252 is the time. If you know the answer that. Be quick. We've got phones. We've got phones free. We've got one phone free. Oliver is in Southgate. Question or answer, Oliver? Sort of an answer to the time zone. The five and a half hour zone for India. Yours is so that they could. When we were over there in victorian times, you turned your watch upside down and they would know what time it was in England. That's not an answer. I mean, that's a fascinating piece of information, Oliver, but it's got naffle to do. The question that was asked. Well, it's just part of the different time zone. But that's not why they did it, is it? It is, truly, yeah. It's got nothing to do with time zones. They just did it so that if you turned your watch upside down, you'd know what time it was in England. Yes. Because it would be exactly the same time. I don't know if that's true. Where did you learn that? Qualifications? A friend of mine who's unforgiving. No longer with us, I can't ask. But he worked in India for ten years. I think I just bit chicken and egg. It might be a coincidence that that's happened, but they did not set international time zones according to what happens when you turn your watch upside down in India. No, it was just part and parcel. Well, I can give you a round of applause, but I don't know. What am I giving you? Why am I giving you a round of applause for me? It's for John Leach. He was the one that. He's the one that's no longer with us. I think he just. You can't do that. You can't get all posthumous on me when I'm doling out rounds of applause. You made me look like some sort of insensitive monster. What? I wouldn't have known it without him. All right, this one's for John. All right, Pete? Thank you. Thank you, dunk. I feel bad now Professor Martin's here. Professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Two professors for price of one this week. Question or answer, professor? It's an answer. Carry on to the Time zone question. Yes. Well, yes, you mentioned Bristol. This business started when people were leaving London by train to go to Bristol, and they'd leave London at, say, twelve, arrive at Bristol at, say, 01:00, when their journey was only 45. Minutes. And everybody said, hello, what's going wrong here? So they decided to have just one time zone for the whole of the UK, instead of having the time zone set by the sun, and then that just followed for the rest of the world. And because you've got a whole day to cover, you've got 24 possible time zones. 48, including half hours, is half hour difference differences across parts of Australia, apparently. I didn't know that. But that's why I don't think you're going to go definitive, Professor. I mean, it's a matter of convenience. As you said, it was just a matter of convenience. So if somebody wants to have half our time zone, they can. But it would be a bit daft having 1 minute or two minutes or three minutes. But that is the answer, I think. But Ron didn't accept that when he asked the question that it would just be a bit daft to do it in the way that he suggested. We've all learned about the half hour, except people that already knew. But I'm not going to give you a round of applause, actually, because I don't know that you don't think you put any flesh on the buzz. I still need that catch all. Answer to the question, Keith's in Watford. Question or answer Keith? I've got an answer. Come on, then. White keys and black keys on the piano, the keyboard. I'm sure, as you said, you already know this, the white keys will give you a major scale. If you start on the note of c. I got Leonard Cohen again, then fourth, the fifth, the major lift, you get an A minor. So you've got the two most dominant scales of western music immediately available when you play only the black mute, the white keys. But if you want. If you want to start your scale on another note, if, for example, somebody's singing with you and they can't sing as low, as high as you want to play the tune, then you've got to start on a different note. And if you want to start the major scale on d or e, for example, the note's higher than c. Then in order for the scale to sound the same, for the gaps between the notes as they rise to be the same gaps, you'll need to include some of the black notes. Got you. And if you think of laying out the keyboard with all the twelve notes of the octave all side by side, that really, as far as I know, that would be impossible to play. I've no idea whether anybody's ever tried that experiment to do with the distribution of notes and the actual business, the mechanics of playing them. Well, this is the two aspects of it, of course. Lovely answer. Well, in order to make music sound nice, you have to choose the right notes which harmonize. And that, of course, was discovered in prehistory. Qualifications, Keith? Western music developed. Qualifications, qualifications, qualifications. Piano grade, 350 years ago. Really? You sound so knowledgeable. You should be presenting it. A bit of amateur interest in the meantime, and I've been reading some books lately, but I'm only an amateur. Yeah, you're on. And I don't know half as much as I would like to know, having got into this question of music, I find it quite fascinating. Well, I find it fascinating as well, but not fascinating enough to avoid cracking on, is he? A round of applause. No, thank you very much. Well played, Keith. Sarah's in Finchley. Question or answer? Sarah. Oh, hello. Sorry. Right. You're surprised to find yourself on the radio, are you, Sarah? No, no, I'm in the middle of cleaning the cooker and I forgot. The thing is, when you. As I understand it, I don't have the exact name of the parts, but when you're born. I think this is a very recent discovery that when you're born, because, you know, the cells regenerate, the kind of master brain that controls the cells regenerating sets a sort of. Well, you know, if you're lucky, that sets a. It sets an amount or how quick the cells can, or will, or will or not regenerate. And when you come, when you've used up your quota, if you like, of regeneration. I'm so short of time, I can't take this as an answer, Sarah. Oh, it's just burbling. No, I don't think it's burbling. Okay, so to live, your cells have to regenerate. There is some regulator in each person that predetermines when you're going to run out of the ability to regenerate. Oh, go on, then. I'm feeling bad now. Give her a round of applause, Bill. Hopefully someone can ring up and. No, it's too late now. Sheila Fogarty's chomping at the bit. I can't even take. Bill's call on my woman's chest area is called bust. I'll never know now. Thanks a bunch, Sheila Fogarty. Well, I'll find that out for you, given that I've got one. I'll find that out for you and let you know as soon as I do. Thank you very much. James, from three, are you or have you had IVF? If so, would you welcome a calculator which predicts your likelihood of getting pregnant? Or would that just add to the pressure of an already pressurized experience? After two Richard Bacon, the Conservative MP, spoke in the Commons about the sad fate of white, middle aged fat men yesterday, didn't he? And drew a joke from Theresa May. Another MP, Philip Davis, says for too long, men's issues have been ignored. Is he right at 230, by the way, for half an hour, out of talk to Sir Norman Bettison about his book on Hillsborough. Hillsborough Untold, it is called, after the news.