Why is the bee a symbol of Manchester?

Tweet text 84850 Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC three minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we begin our weekly adventure into the unknown. If you're not familiar with this feature, and you will perhaps quite understandably, be wondering why we're not continuing with an entirely newsletter agenda, it is. It is a weekly event that. That we have dropped occasionally in the past because of breaking news or developing situations, but which we've decided to remain with today. And judging by your response on the phones, I think it's probably quite a popular decision that we've arrived at. The way it works is this. You ring in with a question, someone else rings in with the answer. Sounds boring, predictable and all. A little bit local radio. I promise you it isn't. Something magical happens between twelve and one on LBC on a Thursday. In fact, one could almost call it a magical hour. A bit of an in joke for you there. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Let's. So I'll give you the number. And I've got phone lines free. I don't. They get freed up sort of relatively regularly. As soon as we've spoken to someone, of course, it frees up a phone line that you can grab. Don't waste your time sending me texts and tweets and emails complaining about not being able to get through. There is a police statement coming from Manchester shortly which we may well take live, but rest assured, any breaking news, any serious developments, we will be absolutely relaying and respecting. But in the interim and in between times, we'll crack on with these questions. And if you hear one that you know the answer to, give us, give us a buzz and respond. Stan's in Houston. Stan, question or answer? It's a question. Please, young man. When and who decide. I'm trying to get into one context, so you might be able to guide me with this one. But basically, how comes newspapers can get away with murder and telling people who and not to vote for? And yet commercial radio stations and tv stations have got all these restrictions. When did it happen and who made that decision? And how comes newspapers haven't got to do the same as like froggy mistake on when it's polling day, you and Nick Ferrari have to invent stories to make up. While everyone, Nick has a long, long, proud history of inventing stories, I can assure you that all of mine are completely kosher, mate. And yet the newspapers can literally turn around and say, don't vote for this person. Vote for that person. Last person out of Britain. Turn off the lights, all that kind of thing. Absolutely right. But as you describe it, for anyone who doubts the. The veracity of what you say, the short answer from me. I haven't got a Scooby doo. Oh, blimey. I thought it's giving you an ungodly. I find it. I get frightened. It's the only time I've ever got into trouble with the. With the regulating authorities was on the. And on that thought. We're going to go live now for the. Oh, any minute now for the. For the police statement live. Here it comes now. Thank you, Stan. Hello, mate. Investigation. And there has been a significant amount of activity taking place throughout the night and this morning, and I wanted to give you an update in relation to that and the progress of the investigation. You will be aware, though, that officers are currently responding to an incident in Hume in Manchester. A suspicious package has now been deemed safe and the cordon has been removed. Can I stress at this stage that the incident is not necessarily linked to the wider investigation? But I also hope that people will understand that we will always take reports such as this very seriously in relation to the fall investigation, we currently have eight people in custody in relation to Monday's attack. A female that was arrested yesterday has been released without any charges. The arrests have taken place in Manchester and Wigan and Duneaton, and we are now carrying out associated searches in relation to those arrests at a number of addresses. These have been an intense three days for the officers and staff of Greater Manchester Police, along with the National Counter Terrorist Policing Network and UK intelligence services. I want to reassure people that the arrests that we have made are significant and initial searches have premises have revealed items that we believe are very important to the investigation. These searches will take several days to complete, so, as you would expect, there will be some localised disruption in and around those premises. However, it is vitally important that we continue those searches and do it very, very thoroughly alongside the investigation. As I said yesterday, we have a team of specially trained family liaison officers working with the families of those who tragically lost their lives in Monday's attack last night. The family liaison officers shared with those families the fact that intelligence had been leaked and published in the New York Times. It is absolutely understandable the distress and upset that this caused to those people, families who are already suffering, as everyone can imagine. A statement was issued last night by national counterterrorism police Network and I do not wish to add anything further to that at this stage, nor will I be commenting on information sharing arrangements with our international partners, it will take several days before formal identification of the victims can take place. We are, however, assisting those families who wish to make tributes to their loved ones. But I just need to be clear that isn't a formal identification. It is something that the coroner has agreed that we can do with families. But what I would say to you is I know how important it is to those families that you are publicising their tributes to their loved ones. And I thank you for doing that. We have been overwhelmed with support from members of the public and I would ask for patience to continue from our local communities here in Greater Manchester as we carry out those searches and this investigation. And as this morning's incident in Hume has shown, it remains important that people continue to be vigilant and report any concerns that they have to the anti terror hotline on 080-078-9321 or of course, use 999. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. And the chief constable has ignored questions from the press and made his way back in to his office. That statement. They're bringing you up to date with all developments. Important items have been found, arrests made so far are significant, and obviously the terror level remains at its highest. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. I promise you, we'll cross immediately should we need to to any developing situations between now and 01:00. But in the meantime, we continue with the altogether softer issues of mystery. Are they altogether lighter territory? I like that question from Stan. I'm so nervous of these rules and regulations during election periods. I'm even worried about. It's a tiny little bit worried about even having him ask that question about why are broadcasters not allowed to express opinions during election, whereas newspapers do little else? If you know the answer to that, when did it start and why? Zero. 345-606-0973 is a number to call and we'll crack on. Mohamed is in Hounslow. Mohamed, question or answer? It's a question. James, how are you? Very well, mate. Right, my question is gender specific. Bikes push bikes. Yes. Why do ladies have a different sort of frame to what guys have? And is there any reason behind it? Because I would have thought it would have been the other way for guys. The crossbar could do us a nasty injury due to anatomical differences under which ladies do not ordinarily suffer. I'm sure it would hurt them as well if they fell, you know, that way. But. But yeah, you know, appendages notwithstanding, are you familiar with the practice of horse riding? Side saddle horse riding, yes. Side saddle? No. So side saddle, historically, was the way in which women were expected to ride a horse for reasons of modesty. So they would not straddle said horse. They would instead sit side on with both legs on the same side of the horse. All right? Right. Yeah. They do that on motorbikes as well in some countries. The reason. Ah, okay. The reason being that it was considered both indelicate and vulgar and possibly a sign of loose morals for a woman to. I mean, there's no sort of polite way of putting this, really, for a woman to spend a significant amount of time with her legs wide apart. Right, yeah. And that would involve getting onto a bicycle with a crossbar without doing that would be almost impossible. Therefore, at the sort of turn of the century when bicycles became popular, turn of the last century, the ladies bicycle, specific ladies bicycle was designed in such a way that she could get on and off it without bearing in mind that also they'd be wearing skirts all the time. So, you know, to be a little less moralistic about it, you wouldn't be able to have a butcher's up her skirt while she was jumping on and off a horse or a bike. Okay, that makes sense. It's all about how you mount the bike then. Yes. Oh, okay. I'm happy with that, James. Thank you. So am I. Actually, I was reading recently about William the Conqueror's wife, who was previously married to Alfred, maybe. And she was painted famously. She was like a regent who effectively ruled England for period. She was from Normandy. I'm going to get all this wrong. This is a problem with doing it off the cuff, but she was famously painted with her legs akimbo, and it was a sign of her masculinity. It was a sign of her ability to rule, I think. So. Again, that would be the converse, but it has nothing to do with what you asked, and it certainly doesn't prevent me from taking one of these. Uh, I may have got that slightly wrong, that last bit, but if I, if I have, don't ring in to tell me, because it wasn't actually part of the question that Mohamed had. The bit about the bike was. Right. Rob's in. Uh, it doesn't say unless you're in Mobile A in Texas, are you, Rob? I'm not. I'm on Liverpool street. Yeah. I think it just means you're on your mobile. What? Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Medieval paintings and drawings of faces. Why are they so terrible? That's a bit spooky. I was just talking about even pre pre medieval. What, what do you mean by, um. So when I was, when I, when I did art at school, there was always someone who could draw faces perfectly, and there always are people who can just draw people on site. That's not technology, that's not modern. That's just the ability to see what you can see and draw it. Why couldn't people do that many times? Or did they just look stupid in those past? I don't know. I mean, like, heads are always elongated and, like, people just don't look like they were human in paintings. But then you can go back further and they, they did. I mean, in the ancient world, certainly in terms of statuary and things like that, that the likenesses were incredibly. Talk about the dark ages. I'm trying to think of an example. I mean, whenever you see paintings of english kings and queens from, from, like, the medieval times, they always look. And also when they do sort of pictures of crowdfiends, people's heads look sort of grotesque and hideous. When people just bad at drawing, I can't work out what changes. Okay, I think you mean, like, really kind of simplistic and clumsy. I think hideous is a bit of a red herring because I'm thinking of a good picture now, but of someone who looks really ugly. You're talking about just people who are a bit rubbish at drawing. I believe that even the ones, James, where people spend lots of time, when you go to, like, a stately home and you see the big paintings of someone from the 15th or 16th century, they're terrible. I mean, they do paintings, but their head is all the wrong shape. I haven't got the mental imagery inside that. You clearly got on this. The sort of frame of reference I kind of recognize. Everyone else is nodding along. No, you're all right. Your question's on the board. So why are medieval faces particularly painted so badly? And what changed to make and what changed so some sort of technological shift in this sort of brush that was available, or the nature of paint or something like that. I don't know. I like it. It's a good question. It's a good. What made you think of it, Rob? Where were you? Have you been exploring 14th century art lately? I'm not particularly keen on it. I just watched a lot of documentaries and every time I see pictures, I thought, why can't people talk? Can't they flipping draw a bit better like that? Okay, we'll find out. It's 1215 victory hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 20 minutes after twelve. You're listening to mystery hour on LBC, like the bloke said with me, James O'Brien, why am I not allowed to tell you how to vote, despite the fact that newspapers will be able to in the coming election? I don't know the answer. Great question from Stan. And why were medieval artists so rubbish at painting faces? If you know the answer to either of those, you know what to do if you've got a question of your own. Similarly, Kim is in Bristol. Question or answer, Kim. Question. James. Good afternoon. Sometimes when we eat ice cream, we get that horrendous brain freeze. I wanted to know what the physiology behind the brain freeze is. Yeah, cool. All right. I mean, I won't even begin to pretend to answer that. I presume it's freezing blood. But see what I just did? I won't even begin to pretend to answer that one. I presume it's freezing blood making its way into your brain. Very cold blood. But I just promised I wouldn't try to answer it and then I tried to. Just shut up, James. Kim. Thank you. Jack is in Southampton. Jack, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, mate. I was wondering where the phrase to grasp somebody up comes from. Why would we call somebody grass? As in. So when you're. When you're dobbing someone into the authorities. Yes, yes, just like that. What, um. What. What authorities would it usually be? Well, I mean, to grasp some. Yeah. Who do we normally grasp someone up to? To the police, maybe. So what's another word for a policeman? A police officer. No, a slanga term. Cops. But what's the full. What's the full word for a cop? A copper. Can you think of an insect, a well known insect that rhymes with copper? A grass hopper. Boom. I've just sat with my friend Claire, who wasn't brave enough to call. The fact that she can hear me explaining this. Her face is lit up and she's shocked and her jaw is dropped to the floor. That is the widely accepted. I'm a big fan of rhyming slang and of world derivations. The widely accepted belief is that it comes from grasshopper, meaning like a kind of. You're on the same side as the coppers. You're a grasshopper. You're a grass. Brilliant. Fantastic. You can have a round of applause, James. Thank you very much. Give my best to Claire. 22. After twelve. Gonin is in Hackney. Gonan, question or answer? Question, please. James. Yes, I was wondering. I drive around London all day and my eyes always drifts up to the sky. Sometimes when I see planes going past and some planes give off a big sort of cloud of smoke where others just leave a trail which sort of disappears within a couple of seconds. I was just curious as to why. Lord, we've already had one. Is this a proper question or are you doing chemtrails and thinking you're being clever? No, I just want to know what causes it. Do you have an answer? You are. You are doing chemtrails and thinking you're being clever on you. No, I'm not. No. Are you sure? Am I being really unkind to you? I've already had one nutter on today, so you are only being unkind if you know there's a decent answer for it and you are denying me the right to. Yeah, jog on. Nathan is in Chinkford. Nathan, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why do books come in hardback first? Because my son's reading the book at the moment. Was the world's worth children by David Williams. Williams. Williams. That's the mum. And is any good? Yes, really good. He wants to. There's a new one coming out as well, which he wants to get, thanks to Granny. I know, and they're expensive as well. I think that just if there's enough desire to read it right now, rather than waiting for a paperback to come out, they just make more money out of it. I don't know that there's a sort of more gone. There's no more money. It is. It was done originally just for money, but I don't know that we would have had paperbacks originally. It costs more money to make, surely. Yeah, I guess so. But the markup's still going to be bigger on a hardback than it is on a paperback. I think we might have done this before and I can't. Maybe there isn't an answer. I'll leave it on the board. Because you'd be mad if you accepted my answer as definitive, Nathan. No, not even close, mate. Not even on the same page as definitive. So why do books come out in hardback and then in paperback? It will be something to do with the money. It always is, isn't it? Especially now, because, you know, it's a lot easier, especially for kids with paper bags and stuff. It's a lot heavier. Yeah. I mean, we're the same, actually. There's a couple of writers they love so much that I do find myself having to spring for the. For the hardbacks when they're coming out relatively regularly. I mean, David Walliams for my youngest. If there's a new one in the shops. She can't wait six months to read it because she's read every other word he's ever written. Exactly. All right, mate, I'll find out for you why hardbacks and paperbacks. Explain to me the science of a brain freeze when you're eating a. Quite partial to a zoom. Medieval faces. Why were medieval artists so rubbish at painting faces? And why are broadcasters and broadcast organizations, not just commercial ones, as Stan mentioned, but BBC as well, not allowed to express any polit, anything that might sway anything at all? We're not even allowed to acknowledge, beyond the fact that an election is occurring on the day of a vote, a by election or a national ballot. We're not allowed to say absolutely anything that might even remotely sway you. And yet print media is allowed to do whatever they want. Mark is in Bromley. Mark, question or answer? Question? Carry on. Okay, so I listen to your podcast with my son, and he's eight years old. He loves your show, bless him, and learns a lot from it, really. And the other day. Yeah, he loves it. He loves you more than I do. What's his name? Yeah, all right, mate. Let's not spoil it. What's his name? Sonny. Hey, Sonny. Good. Good choice. Great taste you've got in radio programs, mate. When you're listening to this podcast, don't forget this is a special hello just for you. Right back to you, dad. Right now, he's got a question. And he said, can you phone up James and ask him? And I said, it's an awkward one. So the question is. He said in a statement to me, there's no such thing as a straight line, dad. I said, well, I'm sure there is. He said, no, not perfectly straight. I said, well, where have you got this information from? He said, I don't know, but there's no such thing as a straight line. I said, well, I think a laser is a straight line. That's what I was about to say. Well, that's what I said. He said, no, you're wrong. He said, can you ask James? Because I need to know for sure. All right, you're on. So he's. He's picked this up somewhere, and he can't remember where or how, and he just needs a little bit of confirmation that he. Well, either that he's got it right or that he's kind of misunderstood. Well, my answer was the same as yours. I think the laser is perfectly straight. Will go on forever. But he wasn't. Leave me. Right, you're on. I like it. Nice one. Sonny. Nice one, Mark. We'll get you an answer. Is there such a thing as a perfectly straight line? Zero. 345-606-0973 the science of brain freeze. Why do books come out in hardback, then paperback? Why were medieval artists so rubbish? Faces? And why do broadcasters have to be so scrupulously impartial during election periods? 27 after twelve is the time Michael is in New Malden. Michael. Or answer. I have an answer for you, James. Bring it on. It's the medieval artists. It's all to do with perspective. If you look at the paintings, I'm presuming he's talking about things like the bayou tapestry and things like that. If you look at the buildings they paint in those, they're all two dimensional. It's a flat image, which is the same with the heads. And I think it was Botticelli in the 14th century who then came up with the three dimensional perspective. Was it? Wasn't it? Wasn't it Leonardo who came out with some ratio for doing faces? Well, he did. He did the body thing, didn't he? So they did it flat. So prior to Botticelli, they did it. That's why statues would work but paintings wouldn't. They did it flat. Instead of trying to paint 3d. They did 2d. Yeah. If you look at, like, the buildings they have on the bio tapestry, like, they're all flat buildings. Two dimensional buildings. Gosh. Is it that simple? Apparently so. Qualifications? The nun who does the art history, whose name I can't remember. Sister Wendy. Sister Wendy. Sister assumptor. Sister Wendy. Wasn't it? I don't know. Sister Wendy. I don't know. I've never seen it. But I've got. I've got a weird memory. But magpie memory for stuff like that, mate. I think you're over the line personally. Let's find out. Thank you very much. There it is. Must have done. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you want to grab the phone line that Michael's just vacated. Is there such a thing as a perfectly straight line? It's a sort of geometry question, but also it's almost philosophical. Hardbacks and paperbacks. Why do we have both? The science of a brain freeze when you're chomping on a cornetto. I've done that. And opinions and elections and broadcasters. Why do broadcasters have to obey incredibly difficult rules, incredibly stringent rules, while newspapers simply do not? I've got time to squeeze in, Brian. Actually, have I? Before. Before the news? Let's find out. Brian, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please. I would like to know, does blood grow old? The reason I ask. My wife is a blood donor. She's 64. She's just made her 73rd blood donation. The transfusion nurse told her that they love her blood as it's perfect for tiny babies. Really? Yeah. I want to know why. Well, you're constantly regenerating. We haven't got any blood in our body that we had when we were young, I don't think. Have we? Why am I even talking? Why am I talking, Brian? I know. Need to talk to a phlebotomist, I think. A. Pardon? A phlebotomist. I shall try and find one. Yeah, they do with blood, apparently. Well, I'll try and find you an amateur phlebotomist. Although I wouldn't turn away a professional. Okay, fine. You're on. Does blood get old? Why would Brian's wife's blood be so perfect for a baby? What a fascinating insight. 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1233 is the time. Questions still need answers. But there's room for more questions, too. Jack's in woking. Question or answer Jack Stewart's inquiry. I'm the only one that's answered anything correctly so far. There's no earthly way any of them are wrong. Exactly. Bring it. It's the. What's the graphs? Where the graphs come from? I don't believe that grass comes from the word copper. Of course it does. Grasshopper copper. It's a shortening of a snake in the grass. If you're a grass, you go and tell them you are a grass. You're a snake in the grass. No, you're not. Snake in the grass is someone who does something sinister and unexpected. There's one crucial no. A grass is giving information to the authorities. Okay, then. And you can keep saying it. It doesn't make it true unless you can answer this question. The phrase snake in the grass was first used, I think, by Virgil, over 2000 years ago. The word grass wasn't used as a synonym for a copper's knock until about the 1950s. So what happened for those intervening 2000 years? Jack? If you're right, the world changed a bit. And you have to do a little bit better than that, mate. People used it for a different reason. If you're a snake, you're a sly person. You're a snake. You go. And this is. I can't believe it. Snake in the grass is somebody not who tells on you, but who bites you. So if you were going okay, well, I mean, it's being fun, but until you got an answer as to why Virgil used it over 2000 years ago and it didn't become a synonym for informer until 1950, I'm afraid the round of applause is staying squarely in my pocket also. A snake in the grass isn't someone who informs on you. A snake in the grass is someone who bites you. If your friend was going for a job, for example, and you decided to apply for the same job without telling him, that would make you a snake in the grass. If your friend was going for a job and you decided to tell your boss that he was looking to get a new job, that would make you a grass. It's pretty straightforward, mate. At least it is for me. Ian's in Romford. Ian. Question or answer? Hello, mate. I've got an answer. Bring it. Brain free things, basically. So the top of your mouth is quite sensitive, so when the cold touches it, it sends stimuli up to your brain, which makes. Makes the pain, which panics you, to say that, this ain't really cold enough. Do something about it. Yeah, that's it, basically. So you're going for an answer to the. What is the science of a brain freeze? You're saying it's really cold stuff hitting your brain? Yeah, pretty much, yeah. All right. I don't want to sound ungrateful, but I kind of. I think the questioner was probably looking for a little bit more than that. Well, I mean, I'm no doctor. No. What are your qualifications? I think you've just described to us what brain freeze is. Not how brain freeze work. We all knew what brain and misses. Eat the twister. I got brain freeze. I love a twister. I love a twisters, my lolly. A choice as well at the moment. Lot of time. No, it certainly isn't. So. So what you've done, you've rung in to tell us what brain freeze feels like? Yeah. And what I googled. Has anyone ever died of a brain? You're not allowed. Oh, I see. After. After you did it. When? With your twister. You didn't google it today? Yeah. No, no, no. This is going a while back and I found out, that's why. What's called it? Yeah, because you've got something freezing in your mouth. Yeah. Well, you can. Yeah. You're not getting a round of applause. Say, what is brain freeze, James? It's when it feels like your brain is freezing because you've got something freezing in your mouth. Stop it. Why is it with you two the last two corners. What is going on? Well, let's talk about chemtrails for a minute. Give me a round of applause. The unlikely event that that questioner was the real deal and not some sort of conspiracy. Chem trails nut the answer to the question of why some planes have more visible vapor trails than others is the same as the answer to the question of why you can see your breath sometimes and other times you can't. It's about temperature and atmospheric pressure. 1237 is the time Jack is in Red Hill. Jack, question or answer a question? James. Carry on, mate. Why is it okay for your heart rate to increase exercise, but it's not advised to make your heart rate increase through drinking caffeinated drinks? Yeah. So doctors say it's good to get your heart rate up by doing vigorous exercise. But, I mean, if you drink too many caffeinated drinks, your heart's going like the clappers. And that's generally considered to be very bad for you. Yeah. And I resisted the urge to google the answer, so I thought I'd give a call. Today. I shall endeavor to find out for you and thank you. And I should stress, actually, with the last two people both mentioning Google, that the only real rule of mystery, apart from never be boring, is that you're not allowed to Google answers. Obviously, this is a celebration of knowledge, education, enlightenment. Call it what you will. I like that question, Jack. I've actually thought that myself in the past, but I can never, ever, ever remember at 12:00 on a Thursday, little mysteries that have popped into my head prior to it. It's like trying to remember jokes. Charles is in Basingstoke. Charles, question or answer? Answer. Two, actually. Well, no, only the one that you've cleared with the producer, mate. Okay, well, the one I cleared with the producer is books. Hardback. B. Softback paperback. Yes. Originally, books were only available in hardback when the technology became available to bind them. And paperback, they retained the hardback for people like public libraries because a paperback book would not stand the stress and the hassle of being moved in and out. And, I mean, that makes perfect sense, I suppose. Well, it does make perfect sense because although libraries are mostly full of paperbacks these days. Yeah. That's because they're cheaper. I know. So why do we still have hardbacks? For people that like that? It's a personal preference. I mean, I personally would never buy a paperback book because they really tatty. Gosh. For the same reason I would never buy a Kindle. So when. When you don't never buy a Kindle because they're tatty. That's not the same reason at all. No, I buy it. I wouldn't buy a Kindle because they don't feel like a hardback book. Yeah, the. So the reason why they kept hardback books when the technology came along to bind in paper is because of longevity, usually associated with a library. And the reason why they've kept them now, I mean, is partly because some readers prefer them, but from a publisher's point of view, they don't really care, do they? So for them, it's just. Yeah, they can just trouser a few more quid six months prior to the paperback release. Absolutely right. So it's tradition as much as anything else, rather than there being some sort of brilliant capture. What are your qualifications, Charles? Yes, I learned it a very long time ago because I have a desire for books. Are you a bibliophile? Yes. Do you know any phlebotomists? Yeah, there's a couple at my local blood transfusion service. Well, see if you can get one of them to ring in, because we've forgotten to repeat that question. Does blood get old? 1240 is the time. Alex is in Guildford. Question or answer? Alex. Hi, James. It's. Hang on. What is it? It's a question. Hang on. Go back. Where's Charles? Charles didn't get his round of applause. He's got. Well, Charles, this is for you, baby. Go on, Alex. So I wanted to know, what is the difference between olive oil, virgin olive oil and extra virgin olive oil? I think it's the pressing. You think? Yeah, I'm 99% sure it's. I mean, olive oil is. You put olives in a press, right. Either industrial or you can sort of get manual ones. And the first stuff to come off. Yeah. Is it's the pressing. So the first stuff to come off is extra virgin and then virgin, and then the kind of stuff they extract from all the pulp and stuff that's left over would be your bulk, standard olive oil. Oh, fair enough. I'm putting that up there. Oh, well done, James. Well, I used to spend a lot of time in Greece. I knew a fellow that grew his own olives, and that's why I'm very confident that, in fact, almost every. Everyone in Greece has access to some olive. And you take the olives to the mill, to the press, and they keep some. That's their payment, and they give you the stuff back and it's to do with. Yeah, yeah. It's good that, isn't it, eh? Oh, yeah. Thanks very much, James. Thank you. That's great for. Hooray. Go on. Really enjoyed listening to antique hour today. It's been a pleasure. You've been up early, haven't you? I have. Steve said he bought you a copy of Woodworkers Weekly. Is that a double entendre or did he really do that? I love that man. Are we revealing that yet or are we. No, no, nothing. I don't know what you're talking about. 1242 is the time. Dustin is in Lingfield. Dustin, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's why you're not allowed to talk about who to vote for. I love the idea you're rigging to tell me. God, why am I not allowed to talk about who to vote for in the run up to elections? I believe it's because the government give out the licenses for radio and broadcasting and they're not allowed to let you be partial in any way because. Because it might influence the awarding of a license. Yes, qualifications. And anyone can go. My son done a little bit of work at a local radio station years ago. Well, really? Yeah. I've been presenting on a national radio station for over a decade or it hasn't been national for over a decade. And that's it? That's all you've got? That's how you picked it up? Yeah. Stupid stuff sticks in my head. Good. Well, I thought it stuck in mine, but clearly not sticky as yours. A round of applause for Dustin, please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. 1243 is the time. Mike is in Maidstone. Mike, question or answer? Question, please, James. Go on, mate. Right. I was sitting in the garden last night enjoying a nice tin of refreshing cider, and I was bored, I'll admit. And I was looking at the tin and it dawned on me that there isn't any nutritional information like calories, sugar, content, ingredients, but there is on all other food stuff that we consume. I just wondered, why is it on fizzy pot? You get it on a can, don't you? Yeah, on a can of drink, you know, loads of sugar and calories and whatever else. Are you sure it's not. It's not on booze, calories. Not that I can see. Yeah. All right, so why. Why are alcoholic drinks pretty much the only thing that doesn't have the calorie content stuck on the side? Calories, sugar, you know, etc. Health. Health warnings. Well, it has health warnings is your tipple of choice, then? Ordinarily, no, I'm a. It depends on the weather, but either cider or an ale sometimes a lager. I like it. Did you? So last night's decision was based. Did you have one of those newfangled iced ciders? No, last I was working away, so I was staying in a hotel on my own and I was sitting in the garden and. What a poignant picture of loneliness you paint. Honestly, it was. It was a beautiful moment for myself, but I just picked. I picked up some. Some dark fruit cider from a well known. Okay, what's that like then? Is that all right? I really enjoyed it. It's like fizzy Ribena, though, surely like alcoholic Ribena or something like that kind of it. To be fair, it is a bit sweet. Yeah. But if. Because the sun was shining and I was enjoying my. You know, just enjoying the sun. It was. It was very refreshing back home. I'd just like to know why they don't have any information. Yeah, no, you're on. I'll find out for you back home tonight. Are you Mike or are you still on the road? Well, no, I've been sitting on the side of the road for 45 minutes now waiting for you to pick up my call. I'm an hour and a half away from home, so I'll be home soon. Bon voyage. Safe, Johnny. I remember my late father when he was away on jobs. I thought staying in hotels was the best. Most. I thought his life must be great. He's in a hotel. Oh, man. Doesn't take long for the novelty to wear off, does it? It's 1245, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 1249 is the time. Still need answers to the science of a brain freeze? Done that. Is it possible to have a perfectly straight line? We need to find out for sunny. Does blood get old? Why is increasing your heart rate while exercising adjudged to be good for you? And yet a caffeinated drink which makes your heart beat a little faster is generally not. I mean, is drinking a caffeinated drink somehow good for you in exercise? Some of you have brought another substance into that equation. But I don't understand alcohol. Why do we not have calorific contents on alcohol when we seem to have them on almost everything else? Danny is in stains. Danny, question or answer? It's an answer. Please carry on. Yeah, it's about them. Blood. If blood gets old enough. No, hang on. That's not what you cleared with the. With the. Oh, yes, it is. My. Sorry. You're in Uxbridge, not you're in ox. I've got Danny in Uxbridge and Danny in stains. Is anyone actually producing this? What? The cat. Right. Dammy. In Uxbridge, can blood get old? And now he's gone. What? Yeah, yeah. What happens is that blood gets old, but it's like about 100 to 120 days, depending on what component of the blood is in the bottom. But it's a regenerative process that goes on constantly in the body. Yes. The blood is composed of several things. We've got red blood cells, white blood cells, and the plus one is the main fluid, which carries the blood, so. And the plasma is water and electrolytes, which we get from our food, the salt and everything. So all these things keep regenerating the blood cells. The red blood cells got an average of hundreds, 100 days of lifespan, after which is just destroyed by the body itself, called hemolysis. And then the body produces another set of red blood cells. It's called hemopoiesis through the bone marrows and all the stuff. So it's a cycle, kind of, yeah. Wow. Qualifications? I'm a vet. Really? Yeah. Cool. What sort of vet? I'm a small animal vet. Small animal vet. Yeah. But, yeah. Obviously your medical education would apply to all mammals, all warm blooded or warm blood. You've got a round of applause. Damn, it's a beautiful play. There was something else I wanted to ask you. Yeah. Why would the fellow who asked the question, his wife, when she gives blood, the nurse says that the blood, her blood is really good for babies, would that would make sense at all? It depends on what kind of, say, antibodies she's got in her body and things like that. Oh, really? So if she's got really clean blood, it would be good for babies? Probably, yeah. So she probably means she leads quite a healthy lifestyle, doesn't drink a lot of booze, you know, take a lot of crystal meth. She probably keeps. Keeps her nose clean. Round of applause for Damien with an m. And now we go to Staines for Danny with an n. Question or answer, Danny? Answer. Bring it. I've got to stop saying that. I'm 45 years old. Well, yes, carry on, Danny. It's answer to the brain freeze. Oh, yes. Good. Okay. It's all to do with the density of nerve endings on the roof of the mouth. Now this is already sounding better than the other fella with his twister, isn't it? Go on. Density of nerve endings. Okay. And it's the distance between those nerve endings and the brain itself. So what actually happens is the actual nerve endings are actually numbed. It's not actually pain itself, it's the numbness that has actually occurred by the contracting of those nerve vessels and the blood flow around them by coolness and the coldness of the ice cream, and that the receptors in the brain conducts it and actually receives it as actually pain, because actually the blood flow is actually constricted around the nerve end. So you know you're not in pain, but your brain is telling you you are, which is why it's such a unique sensation. Exactly. That's a lovely answer. What are your qualifications? I'm 99% sure I heard the answer on here. Yeah, I am as well. Now, nothing wrong with that, though. Do you know how to remove the brain freeze really, really quickly? Oh, no, tell me. Okay. The tongue placed to the roof of the mouth, because the amount of blood flowing through your tongue, it reheats the blood vessels around the atropine receivers and actually takes away the brain. Priest. Round of applause for Danny. Another little lesson there for us all. Another reason to listen to mystery hour, of course, is that you could come back in a couple of years and answer a question with the information that you've learned today. Danny, thank you. Jake is in Tottenham. Question or answer, Jake? Answer, mate. Go on. Well, it's for the. About the caffeine question. Why is it good to make your heart rate increase when you do exercise but not when you're drinking caffeine? Yeah. Basically what it is is that. Well, my theory is that when you're obviously doing cardio, you're getting good oxygen into the lungs, into the body, building the inside organs up. But the caffeine gets the heart rate up just purely because the sugars and very bad content. Really. So the reason why it's good to obviously do the cardio is to improve and strengthen your body. And the caffeine is basically bad for you, effectively. So it's all about the oxygen. Pretty much so, yeah. And obviously building up your internal organs. So when you do cardio, your heart rate gets stronger, your heart gets longer, your lungs get stronger, things good and get stronger. But the caffeine, which is rubbish for you, you've got hydro content and makes the heart rate race quite badly, whereas the cardio is good for you. For those reasons, I think you're all right. You think I'm all right? Yeah. Well, I'm first time caller, so I'd like to say that I am one. I like fitness, so, you know, qualifications. I just generally interested in fitness myself, mate. Yeah, that'll do well. Play. Jake. Eddie's in Ilford. Eddie, question or answer? Answer. James, bring it bring it on, bring it on. Answer. Answer the question. Can you have a property straight line? Yes, you can. Two points define a line. Theoretically, no. Yes, but the question. Hang on, I've got a professor on the other line. Stay there, Eddie. Professor Martin is professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. You're here to answer the same question. That's right. Carry on. Well, the difference is geometry and reality. So, in geometry, a straight line is a theoretical abstract perfection. It must have no thickness and it must be drawn on a perfectly flat surface. Yes. In reality, a line has to have some thickness or you wouldn't be able to see it, and it'd be very difficult to draw on a perfect flat surface. So if you draw had a very flat line on the surface of the earth, it would automatically be curved? Of course it would. So, in the natural world, a perfectly straight line is impossible. Well, not impossible, provided you can have a perfectly flat surface and it can have no thickness, so you wouldn't be able to see it, so it wouldn't be of any practical value in reality. So Sunny's kind of right, there's no such thing in real life as a perfectly straight line, because if there is, you wouldn't be able to see it by definitions used in geometry. Yes, I like it. And Eddie's not wrong, because he was speaking theoretically. That's fine. Weren't you, Eddy, or not? Yes, I was speaking theoretically. Yeah. That sounds like a little bit of a reverse ferret there, Edward. No, no, no. That's two points to find a line. Yeah, but only in geometry, in the kind of music of the spheres in the world of theory. And I'm talking fact. Yeah. Okay, straight down the line, then. Thank you, chaps. 1257 is the time. So we've done the heart rate, we haven't done the alcohol and the calorie content. We've got two minutes left to squeeze in a couple more. Dylan's in Glasgow. Dylan, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Okay, so basically, the reason we don't have nutritional information on alcohol is because alcohol isn't considered a food product, whereas fizzy drinks and food are. They're regulated by the EU and alcoholism by the food agency. Yeah. They did have a vote on it in 2015, the european parliament, but it wasn't passed as legislation, so hopefully that happens at some point. Okay, I like that. Qualifications. Future law student. Oh, look forward to it. Good luck. There you go, one of these. We've pretty much done it, except for. Hang on, any more daniels in Manchester, have we got any left? Question or answer, Daniel. It's a question, James. Go on, mate. I was just wondering why the b is the symbol for Manchester, as a few of my friends have started getting bee tattoos following this week and I could have googled it, but I thought I'd ask. Oh, you could have stuck your head out the window, mate. You're in Manchester? I mean, no, I'm in Essex at the moment. I'm working down here, but I'm from Manchester. I saw one tattoo parlor, has already raised four grand for the sort of fund, the fundraising efforts as a result of giving bee tattoos. I actually know this. I lived in Chulton cum hardy for a spell. Okay, brilliant. And it's all about the industrial revolution. Right, okay, but what is. What does it mean, specifically? Worker bee. Ah, right, okay. Mancunians are the worker bees of Britain. And you can see bees, as you probably know, all over the shop. There's the mosaic at the town hall. You see it in some of the other civics. Civic buildings. I noticed it, but it's one of those things where you see something but you never question it. You see it so often, it's like living next door to the Tower of London. You're never going to go and visit because you live next door to it. You're absolutely right. And I get one of these. Keep buzzing, Daniel, keep buzzing. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten the next.