Why do we get growth spurts?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. You know, I forgot it was mystery hour. Even I sometimes lose track of time. It's probably the. Probably the. I was so starstruck talking to Andrew Castle there before the break that I lost sight of what was in front of us. I don't think I will be staying up for that game overnight, but I'm not going to rule it out. It's such an exciting tennis player. But anyway, mystery hour, three minutes after twelve. Do you know how this works? I think you probably do by now. I shall remind you, obviously, in case you don't, it's your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You ring in with a question and somebody else will ring in with an answer. If it's going well, if you're unlucky, no one will ring in with an answer. There aren't really any rules apart from try to avoid repetition. And if you haven't listened much, then if it's really obvious, if you want to ring in with a question that is routinely asked as being one of life's mysteries, then don't bother, because we would have done it before. Oh, and there is one other rule as well. Don't look stuff up. So the whole point of this madness, when it was originally conceived, was to just reflect and recognize upon the changing nature of existence. That sounds quite pompous, doesn't it, for an essentially very light hearted radio feature? But it really was just recognizing that for the younger generation, the retention of knowledge is less important than it's ever been since the dawn of time. You will be able to find out what you need to find out in a nanosecond. Now, even more so than when we started doing mystery hour, actually, it's fair to say that if you were allowed to Google, this feature would be dead in the water already from before it even started. So that's the bottom line. So you hear somebody ask a question and you know the answer to it because of your background, your experiences, your qualifications, your education, your reading, your watching, and it doesn't have to be a PhD in astrophysics. You could literally, when I say to you, what are your qualifications? You could say to me, I saw it on telly last night, James, that counts. All we're trying to do is establish that you do definitely know what it is you are claiming to know, even to embarrass me occasionally. The qualification for knowing the answer to a question is that you've heard it being asked before four on mystery hour, but we're all of an age now where there's no shame in the occasional little bit of short term memory loss or even long term. Actually, five minutes after twelve is the time. The number you need, as ever, is zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. And the. That's it, I think, isn't it? I mean, can't think of anything else that's missing. If there is anything else. If there is anything else, I'll drop it into the mix. I don't do the motoring ban every week because I'm getting older and less stubborn and oddly, I know you're supposed to get more stubborn as you get older, but many motoring questions are very boring and we tend not to take those. But there's no longer a motoring morator. Well, no, I shouldn't say that. I shouldn't say that. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Should we just crack on? Colin's in Finchley. Colin, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Colin. If I was on the moon. Is that a song that's flying to the moon? If I was on the moon, what would the time difference? Would I have to put my watch forward or would I have to take it back? I don't think it's in a time zone. Is it? So you would just calibrate your watch with mission control, surely? Well, I don't know. I mean, I don't know either, mate, but I'm using my common sense and it would be a bit weird if mission control was saying, oh, it's 10:00 we better give Colin another couple of hours to wait up. And you're up on the moon and you've been up for 2 hours because you're 4 hours ahead. Well, yeah, but when they want to talk to them, they have to call and give them a time tub to wake up so they can talk. So it will be the same. It'll be the same as mission control. So I bet that russian astronauts are on a different time zone to America. Ah, now that. That may be where. Well, that's all I wanted. If they. Great question. So would russian astronauts be on a different time zone on the moon to american astronauts? Theoretically speaking. What time is it on the moon? Zero. 345-606-0973 you got a trip planned, have you Colin? You got you going away for the. Going away for the weekend. Darren's in Farnborough. Darren, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Darren. In football, has a referee ever been sent off? I like that. That's a nice. I mean, sent off. Who are they? Is there anyone above? I mean, in the days before VAR and stuff like that, was anyone above a referee? Is he there? No. Spooky. Has a referee ever been removed from the field of play? I mean. Well, I guess I was framing the question from the point of view of who would send off the referee. I don't even know how the rubric of the game or the structure of the hierarchy would work. So what time is it on the moon? What is the time differences? And can a referee. Well, it's a, can a referee be sent off? And B, has a referee ever been sent off? Eight minutes after twelve and he's in Plymouth. Just be patient. If you can't get through, don't text me to complain. I don't want to sound snippy, but it is just really, really busy, even busier than it is for the other 14 hours of the week. And there's nothing we can do about it except be less popular. And that, unfortunately, is just not in my DNA. Andy's in Plymouth. Andy, question or answer? Hi, James. Question, please carry on, mate. So I have a bottle of Diet Coke and coke. Zero. Yes. Both say zero sugar and zero calories. Yes. Both virtually have the same ingredients from what I can see. Right. So my question is, what's the difference? I quite like that question, actually. Thank you. Well, you're welcome. I have often wondered this. Is it just a marketing plot? I mean, do you. Have you drunk both? I have drunk both and I can't taste much different. Much difference or any difference? I can't really taste any different. So could it just be a marketing ploy? I think it's marketing, but I've got no idea. So what's the difference between Diet Coke and coke? I'm still full fat all day long. I drink it so rarely. It's so rare for me that I have a little treat. Had one the other day. Do you know why I had a Coke the other day? No idea. This is the fascinating anecdote based radio that wins me all the big awards. You see, Andy, I'm riveted. You will be. And it's going to be the first mention of the b word, I think today as well. I did allude to it yesterday. I had a Coke the other day on Tuesday, to be precise, with my Big Mac meal because McDonald's had run out of water. Oh, okay, bottled water. So everyone's been reporting on the absence of shakes due to supply chain issues, stroke Brexit. But they have also now managed to run out of bottled water. So I had a Coca Cola instead. And there you go. I can tell from here that that is probably one of the finest stories you've ever heard. I'm going to have the best day ever. Now go and write it down quick. Before you forget, let's get an answer for Andy. What's the difference between Diet Coke and Coke Zero? Ali is in Dartford. Ali, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Ali. Okay, this is going to be a bit odd, but, you know when you go down the motorway and they've roped one lane off to do the works in? Yeah. And they have two poles up and there's, like, bunting across the top of it. Where. I don't know what that's for. Where's the bunting? It's kind of like they have two poles up, so all the vehicles go underneath it, and then the bunting goes from one pole to the other. So it's obviously a height thing, but I can't imagine what it's for. I don't. I don't. So this is on the normal bit. The bit that's not closed? No, the bit that's closed. The bit that's closed. For the works vehicles to go backwards and forwards. Well, it will be to stop. Oh, I see. Because if it's got that far. Yeah, I'm thinking if it. So it's like a headroom. It's like a headroom arch made out of. What color is it? I don't pay that much attention when we're on. Well, it looks like. It looks like bunting. James, is that what he looks like? It's got, like, little flags that go across the top of it. Like little. And how high up is it, roughly? Oh, crikey. I don't know. Do you mean you don't know? This is mystery. I need the details. What, a lorry bigger than a lorry? Bigger than a lorry? Smaller than a. I mean bigger. Much taller than a lorry. Yeah, much taller. I would. It might be health and safety. It might be. Where different. Where different legislation begins and ends and it has to be big enough for. And, you know, it doesn't. Wouldn't need to have a top on it, then, would it? I don't know. It's bothered me for a long time. Yeah, well, we'll get you an answer. I imagine we will, because there'll be lots of people listening who've worked on. Yeah, there you go. So what's that? I don't know if I want to call it bunting. No, it's not a bunting. No, it's not, no. Exactly. What is it, then, is it? I'd like to know the name of it, I really would. It's a gateway at the beginning of the roadworks area. Well, I think they seem to have quite a few going. There's more than one, is there? On the same. On the same stretch. Oh, all right. So it's not an entry or an exit. I think so. I mean, am I just not paying attention now? No, it's probably something really obvious, but neither of us can work out what it is, which means. It's a good question. We shall find out for you. Thank you, Ali. Twelve after twelve. Ben's in Letchworth. Ben, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Do dogs prefer to sleep in the dark? Why do you ask? Well, so my dogs pretty much sleep all day anyway. And then they also. Yeah, quite a lot. And then they sleep at night as well. And then I think, if I need to pop down in the middle of the night to the kitchen and turn the light on, is that going to bother them? Is it gonna. Are they gonna be upset if I turn the light on? But then I think, will you sleep during the day anyway? So, yeah. Is there a pressure? I mean, it's very thoughtful of you, isn't it? You're a nice dog owner. I like the fact that you're kind of worrying about your dog, so. But evolutionarily, you presume that they'd be. They'd sleep in the dark. They'd prefer it to be. I don't know. How would we get. Do dogs prefer to sleep in the dark? It's a lovely question. Oh, brilliant. Well, that's how we get an answer. That's how we get an answer. We got five. We're up for five. Five for five. Now, at 1213 the time. What time is it on the moon? Has a referee ever been removed from the field of play? Strokes sent off. Difference between Diet Coke and coke zero. What are those sort of gateway things on the motorway, when you see the road works? They look like height. They probably are, now that I'm saying it out loud. They look like height. Restrictive. But why would you need several? Because some vehicles join the road works. They don't all come in at an entrance, they go up the motorway. They can be very long, aren't they? They're fenced off. But I told you motoring questions were controversial. And do dogs prefer to sleep in the dark. Malcolm's in Basildon. Malcolm. Question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on, Malcolm. The time on the moon is it conforms to a thing called universal time coordinates, UTC, which, coincidentally, is exactly the same as GMT, but it's used, whether it be a mission that's going from America, from Russia or from anywhere else. Is that right? Yeah. Every operation or mission which takes place outside of the earth is coordinated to UTC. Anything else? Does UTC apply on earth within our. Sort of. It does. It's used quite often by fighter pilots and anybody who's on a tactical mission. So the military use UTC quite a lot. But the russian military wouldn't use UTC, would they? Yeah, they absolutely do. And, in fact, part of the reason I know this is that I've got two watches which have been approved for use in space. Have you really? Yeah. One of which actually goes back to the 1960s and was used by the Apollo missions, and the other one is approved by the European Space Agency for all the missions which take place on the International Space Centre. But they tell the same time? They all tell the time, but they obviously, they have to conform to various different criteria for. Is that your qualifications, then? That's the qualification, yeah. I've got a watch which. And have they been into space? Have they been into space, your watches? Not my physical ones. The same make and model, but not my physical ones, no. Well, you live and learn. I sent you a round of applause, Malcolm. Thank you. Thank you, UTC. You live and learn, don't you? Uh. 1216, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 19 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. The poles on the motorway, dogs in the dark, referees getting sent off and Diet Coke versus Coke zero. I like that. Something for everybody this week, which is usually the way on mystery. If you can answer any of those, you know what to do. 03456. If you've got a question of your own, then the number remains the same. Mike's in Taunton. Mike, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, Jake. Carry on, Mike. So the overhead poles on the motorway with the bunting tend to be used to indicate to drivers, the workers on the motorway, that there are overhead power lines and to avoid them, to avoid hitting them if you're in a truck or a digger or some such piece of equipment, to warn them of the presence of the overhead power lines. And I know this because I used to work in the waste industry. And we used to have these things dotted around our sites to warn drivers and plant operators of the presence of aviation power lines. We had one driver who didn't understand or see the poles and ended up lifting the body of his tipper into a 33 kilovolt power line. So is it for the tippers, then? It's for the lorries that can be higher than they are as they drive through it. Yes. So that's where I got confusing, because that makes perfect sense. Otherwise I'd be confused as to why they needed several. Because it would just be, you're either allowed on the site or you're not allowed on the site. But a tipper ends up higher than it is when it's tipping. It's higher than it is when it's not tipping. Or a piece of plant with a big arm on it. Or indeed a piece of plant with a big arm. So be aware of the overhead carrier. Right. Qualifications. I know you've already told me, but just in a nutshell. Form waste industry operative. And then there it was. Round of applause. Great stuff. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I love it. You live and learn. Not a desperately exciting explanation, but a pleasingly logical one, which I'm sure Ali will be boring people rigid with for the foreseeable future. 21 minutes after twelve. Steve's in Nottingham. Steve, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. It's the Coca Cola one. Go on. What's the difference between Coke zero and Diet Coke? There's very little difference between in the actual beverages, in the ingredients, but the coke zero is specifically marketed at people who don't want to drink drink with the word diet in it. So. And very often that's men, you know, for whatever reason, would see it as, you know, perhaps like a bit soft or whatever. If it's got the word diet in it, maybe effeminate, I don't know. So they do the same job, essentially, but they're just aimed at different markets. Ultimately. It's the same with Pepsi Max, although there's a slight twist on Pepsi Max in that I think that's the maximum amount of caffeine allowed per serving. Oh, okay. Don't confuse things. We just. We just. We only need to talk about Coke zero and Diet Coke and this. No, this makes perfect sense. It looks different as well, doesn't it? It's got a more. I don't want to say masculine, but it just is, isn't it? I mean, we're such. You don't like to think of us as being such pathetic, predictable creatures, but we clearly are. I had a brilliant money making idea many years ago, which I completely forgot about, as is my one, I reckoned, and I think someone might have done this. If you could make cleaning products look like military hardware, men would do a lot more housework. You'd be amazed. It's the same with perfume bottles and aftershave bottles. Yeah. Like an aftershave bottle is square, isn't it? And angular. Yeah, that's right. And also there's an ingredient in there that often that deliberately makes your skin sting so you don't feel, you know, soft. So. Yeah, yeah. Like slapping it on. Yeah, exactly. I'm not. It's not wearing perfume, I'm wearing aftershave. That's right. But also because coke zero is sometimes nicknamed bloke coke in the industry for that reason. You're a font of all knowledge. What are your qualifications, then, on this one? I did a master's in international marketing strategy and I lecture in business management. And this has come up in the curriculum, has it? Not? In the curriculum, but it was my own personal interest. I was just reading some journals. It was a few years ago now because it was. What I was researching at the time was the other one, the green one, called coke life, which seems to have died of death. Was that the one with Sevier in it? Stevia. Stevia, yeah. It's the one with, like, still sugar, but not as much, but only natural, you know. Yeah. What's it called? Is it because there was a. I was in Greece one year and it was everywhere. Everyone was. Yeah, Stevia. It's like a different sweetener. That is a sugar substitute that comes from. Yeah. For about ten minutes. That was supposed to be changing the world, wasn't it? I wonder what happened to it. Well, people didn't buy it, so it went, so. Yeah, fair enough. People obviously still buy coke zero, don't they? Send. Which is why it's still there. So it's no. Round of applause for Steve. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Using useful qualifications, 1224 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. Marty's in Belfast. Marty, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's a question and it's to do with young kids whenever they have growth spurts. Oh, yes. You know, we used to buy a pair of jeans and they fitted for about a week and then the next time they were on, they were halfway up the ankles. Why do children have growth spurts as opposed to just growing constantly, but slowly. I quite like that question, actually. I mean, some kids do, don't they? Not all kids have growth spurts. I don't know. It came about, my sister's here from California and we were having a couple of non alcoholic libations, possibly as you do off of an evening. Yes. Um. And we were just talking about whenever we were kids. And she asked you, Marty, did sore whenever you were growing. So you're the family. You're known in the family as being the one that used to do the spurts, are you? Uh. Yes. Right. It never hurt. But she also had spurts. But she said she could feel her bones. Really? No, they're called growing pains. That is a thing. That's where growing pains comes from. So there is something in it. So why do we not have a gentle graph, a gentle gradient on the growth graph, instead of having, you know, flat peak. Flat peak. Flat peak. Evolutionary reasons. Yeah. I mean, again with the caveat that I don't think it applies to everybody. I'm thinking of my own children, really. I think they've kind of. Although. Yeah. I mean, when grandma sees them. Grandma, if she hasn't seen them for a while, so. My goodness me, you've had a growth spurt? And we're like, no, she hasn't. She's always been that size. So never argue with grandma. Grandma. There's never a truer word said. We'll find out. Is there. Is there an explanation for growth spurts as opposed to, you know, slow and steady, as it were, 26 minutes after twelve? Marty. Thank you. Alex is in Neverton. Alex, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Ice cream vans, when they are purchased by the ice cream man, does he get to pick the tune or does he get what comes with it? I think they've got a choice, haven't they? So it's a tape? I think so you can. You can just put whatever you want or. Why are you looking at me like that, Keith? What else is it going to be? It's just that my friend. I wonder if my friend Enzo is listening. I haven't seen him for a while because he used to be parked up outside my girl's primary school and I only see him. I've gone into peak anecdote territory today. I only see him when I pop around Tony's to get my hair cut because Tony and Enzo are old mates, you see, so sometimes bump into Enzo. The ice cream ran while I met Arthur Razor in Acton, getting the old Barnett scene too. So he'd normally be. I could have asked him, you see, at home time, I'd have bought myself a strawberry mivy and asked him what the score is with the. With the tunes. I think they're on tape. But you're not going to take that as an answer, are you? It sounds like chimes yes. I wonder if there's something electronic going on, some sort of special machine. Yeah, yeah, you're on. I mean, it'd be a bit rubbish if you had to buy or you couldn't change, you bought it. Well, if you hated green sleeves and you wanted to put like the teddy bears picnic on or something like that, I mean, you wouldn't want to have to sell your holes. So it's highly unlikely that you can't change the tune that you're. Ice cream van plays but how does the music work? I like that question. I shall find out for you. Thank you, Alex. Zero. 345-606-0973 I think I'll only accept answers from ice cream men or women on that one. Steve's in settle in North Yorkshire. Steve, question or answer? It's question. Carry on. When we look in the mirror, we're told that we see everything in reverse because we're seeing the light bouncing off the mirror into our eyes. Right. Why don't we see things upside down then? I hate these questions and make my head hurt. Why would we? Well, why would we see things reversed if our brains constantly got two? Because we've got two eyes and they're next to each other. Yeah, but if our brains are constantly compensating, you have no pause for a minute, just think the question. So why haven't. We can't change the question. Slow down, slow down a bit. That's not. Just think about what I just said. Our eyes are horizontally aligned rather than vertical. So if they were vertical, then you would probably see your face upside down. So over millions of years, we've got used to this. No, no, no. You've asked your question and I'm pretty sure that's the answer. Okay, that on you. Don't you think so? Well, I like the horizontal idea, but at the end of the day we've got circular lenses. So how. How are we doing that if everything's coming into. That's not what you ask, it's not what you asked. It's still the same. It's not the same because it's. You've got two eyes processing information and then the brain combines it into one vision and then when you're looking in a mirror, it's crossing over because they're next to each other. It's a horizontal crossover. If it was upside down, it'd be a vertical. I'm pretty sure that's the answer. Were you convincing me? Well, I can't see what else it could possibly be, but I can't give myself a round of applause because. Because, I mean, I just sort of thought it and actually I didn't. Keith pointed at his eyes and did some weird little gesture with his fingers. So I think it was one of Keith, this, but, I mean, we need someone to give us a slightly more ophthalmologically sound explanation, don't we? Absolutely. Implicitly, James. Well, I don't. Trust me an ophthalmologist. Ocularly. Ocularly. Occulole. Oculolu. Why? Yeah. There we go. I'm pretty sure we've nailed it, but I'd like to hear it from someone who really knows what they're talking about. Steve, great question. Thank you. Coming up to 12:30 is the time. Mirrors and eyes, ice cream vans, growth spurts, dogs in the dark, referees. That's a good one. Referee, can a referee be slung off the pitch or removed from the pitch? Because we not entirely clear who would do that. Just coming up to 12:30 Tim Humphreys here now with your headlines. It's 33 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues with particularly joyous selection of questions this week. And there's still room for more. Joe is in Ashford. Joe, question or answer? I have an answer. Carry on, then. It's to the referee. Question, can a referee be sent off? Yeah. Well, no, he can't, because the referee is the only person with the authority to send people off and there's no provision for sending yourself off, essentially, in the game. So the only way it could be done is the referee can abandon a match at his discretion for whatever reason. So if it was going that bad for him, he could withdraw himself from the game by abandoning the match. So wouldn't. I mean, he'd be sending everybody off, wouldn't he? Yeah, essentially. But it's not classed as disciplinary action, it would just be abandoning the match to be probably replayed a different time. But he couldn't send himself off. I'm pretty sure he couldn't. What is. There's a. I'm probably imagining it was there not as Zlatan Ibrahimovic example? Or is that. Have I got confused with something else when I can't remember. But anyway, I'm gonna give you a round of applause, but I think there might still be room, because the original question was, has a referee ever been sent off? So if you're right and someone's witnessed it, then they would get. They'd get. Yeah. I haven't heard of a referee being sent off as such, because he would have to send himself off. But I know there are examples where teams have refused to play, continue the game under that referee, in which case the game is abandoned. But that would be different to sending himself off or being sent off. If he sent himself off, the game would be abandoned, but it could happen in that order. He could send himself off because he realises he's lost the plot and then the game would be abandoned. Yeah. I just. I don't know if there's definitely no provision for sending yourself off or showing yourself a card in the law. I think there is. I think there is, but we shall see. You've got a round of applause. Anyway, what are your qualifications? I think I know, yeah. I'm a qualified ref, so it's quite cocky of me to say I think there is something in the laws which I've never read, which you had to study to get your badges, but nevertheless, here we are where we are. Round of applause for Joe, please. Nice to play. No, I like that. Is in Wandsworth. Francis, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. How many words are there in the english language? Three. No. Yeah. The english language. No. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. That was absolute. I'm a dad. All right? And that's a dad joke, so I apologize. I got it. I've got it. Okay. Well, I mean, I don't know if it's possible to answer that question, but we'll put it on the board. But it would be like. The Oxford English Dictionary currently contains. The last edition of the Oxford English Dictionary contained x number of words. But the next edition will. The next edition will contain more. Right. Because new words are always. I mean, brexit is a new word, you see, that didn't exist ten years ago. But that will be in the dictionary. But would there be a number of words currently? That's what I think there must be. There must be a total number of words in the last edition of the definitive dictionary. But then we could have an argument about what was the definitive dictionary. An american dictionary might have words in it that aren't in the english dictionary. Why do you want to know? Well, every time I listen to you, James, you come up with a word I've never heard of or something. What is he on about? I said, I'm going to ask James. He's the only person who can tell me this. How many words are there in the article? I'll tell you, I don't know. Half of them probably is the. But I love the question. So, yeah, we'll just get you a grand total. Do you want to have a guess? I love. This is like, I don't know if you watch Richard Osmond's house of games, which is one of my favorite programs at the moment. It's the sort of question that would come up on there, and the guesses could be millions apart or miles away from the. Correct. Did you want to have a guess? How many do you think? Millions apart, James, from my point of view? Yeah. You and me both, though I wouldn't even begin. I wouldn't know where to begin, Francis. I would seriously wouldn't even know where to begin on how many words are there in the english language. There we go. I'm sure somebody clever enough will come up with an answer. Well, if you're not allowed to look it up, it's going to be very, very hard to know. I guess you would have to have worked on the last edition of the Oxford English Dictionary or something like that. But it's a great question. Many thanks indeed, and apologies again for that complete dad joke. Speaking of dad jokes, I've got a little godson who I saw on, on Saturday, and, you know, sometimes these really old school gags land and sometimes they don't. The stick your tongue out and touch your nose thing had him in absolute hysterics. He would, I can tell you now, for nothing, that he would have been using that, you know, when you say, can you, can you stick your tongue out and touch your nose? And then you poke your tongue out and pretend that you're trying to touch your nose with your tongue. Some people can actually do it, but you do that. And then you bet someone, you say, I bet you're 50 p. You can't stick your tongue out and touch your nose. And they all turn their tongue out and touch their nose, and then you stick your tongue out and just put your finger on your nose. You say, I stuck my tongue out and touched my nose. You owe me 50 p. Oh. If there is an eight year old boy in your life, I can tell you now that if he's anything like my youngest godson, that will be absolute joy. Nad's in Ilford. Nad. Question or answer? I'll answer just on the cola differences. Whoa. Are you challenging it? Big time because I tear my hair out? Are you serious? We're going for a stewards inquiry on the difference between diet and. Keith is nodding sagely. Well, let's find out where your qualifications are first. Go on. What have you got? What's the answer to the question? The primary and the lamest version of it is that the caramel content in both products is varied and different, and therefore more in coke zero than it is in coke covered diet. And the acidity and the carbonation levels are different as well. So caramel is sugar? No, there's no sugar in the product. There's no sugar in either products. You mean caramel coloring, then? Because caramel is just burnt sugar. Flavoring. Flavoring, yeah. So it's not. It's not. Which gives it the, you know, that sort of cola taste credential. So the reason why people buy Coke zero is because they've tasted it and preferred it to Diet Coke. It tastes more like your regular coke, which is why they would drink it, but it has no sugar. That would be the difference. Whereas if you're drinking a Diet Coke, you'll be drinking it because it has no sugar and you don't want it to taste like the normal you've developed. So Diet Coke was for people who had. They prioritized diet overtaste and then ended up preferring the taste of Diet Coke to real coke. Yeah. And then Coke zero came along and they thought, well, another way we could get people to drink sugar free drinks is if we make it now, using newer techniques and technologies, we make it sound more like real coke taste even more like. And of course, you know, the sugar tax and the health agenda and lots of things, the more sugar free options we get on the shelf, the more business as usual will soon be resumed, even with the sugar tax in place. Absolutely. And the bigger point that the other fellow made around pepper max, placing the same. That's definitely not the case because that's a far superior taste in both products. But I think you've just given. I think you've just given away your qualifications. What are your qualifications? 20 years in the soft drinks industry and work for the nearest competitor brand. Yeah. Work for Pepsi. Yeah. Cool. Well, you get a round of applause. I like that. I just thought that it was really plausible, though, the coke zero, more manly than Diet Coke argument. They might. I mean, they do market it in that way, but less so now. Less so now. I think that was more when it was launched in 2006. So we're not withdrawing his round of applause, then we're just adding to the answer. No, no. It's definitely a different answer, isn't it? The question wasn't. Oh, no. The question was, what is the difference? Not in the marketing tactics being the contents of the can. So on a taste test, you'd be confident that people would tell the difference quite quickly between the two drinks? Yeah. Yeah, I am as well. So I might try coke zero. So if I. Why does anyone still drink? Well. Oh, I'm sorry, Pepsi Max. What? I get so confused. What's the. Don't send me any. Seriously, Keith, put your hand down. You can buy. It's about 50 p in the vending machine downstairs. You can buy your own. What is the coke zero equipment? What's the. Pepsi Max is Pepsi. Well, I don't. You know what I'm asking? Just answer. Yeah, Pepsi Max. So if I try. Because I don't know if I'll get into trouble for this. I prefer Pepsi to Coca Cola. I just. It's harder to find. So if I like Pepsi, I don't want Diet Pepsi because it's got that weird taste. If I try a Pepsi Max, you think I might not be able to tell the difference between a Pepsi Max and a Pepsi Max? Honestly. I will bring you some and you try it and let me know. Well, I say, how exciting. I did the Pepsi challenge once in the Boolean in Birmingham, would you believe? Oh, that would be in 2019. Yeah. No, no, no. I'm going back to the. Like when I was a kid. It used to be on Saturday morning, Ted. Yeah, they had it. They had it. Because I always thought the advert was fake, but they had a real Pepsi challenge in the bull ring, in bombing. Still out. Still out there. All right, well, you've nailed it. And you're right. You do. This is. This is. We've given you the round of applause already, but you've. It's not. It is a successful stewards inquiry, so you can have another one. Thank you very much. Nicely done, Matt. Any big. Any big news on the horizon in the software world? Anything coming up on the. On the outside lane that we can give us a scoop on? Yeah. Nothing to do with Colas, but Seltzer products are massive at the moment. Have a look into that. Well, the alcohol ones. No, none. So just different. So fizzy water with quite nice flavors. Yeah. Basically. I'll tell you what's gross. These things they call hard seltzers. Have you had one of them? White claw. I think that's one. Don't name brand names. I'll get into trouble. I can't comment on that. No, I've never named. I've never. I'm just. I had a hard seltzer and it tasted. It was grim, man. I mean, how desperate could you be to get alcohol into your system that you'd drink something like that when there's so many other. That's all to do with, you know, research telling us that people are consuming alcohol less often. Not less in total, but less often. Oh, I see. Oh, maybe it is. Anyway, you live and learn and you've had your round of applause. Well played, Nat. Good work. I like that a lot. So it does take. I thought it must do. I think Keith's actually. I've credit where it's due. Keith kind of said that at the time as well, so he's on form today. I bet you were wrong about the mirrors, though. Michael's on the Finchley Road. Michael, question or answer to question? Keith James. Carry on. Horseshoes. When did they decide that horses needed to wear shoes? When they went out. Oh, thank you. It didn't deserve a giggle of that charm and kindness. That was a pathetic answer. Yeah. So, the first recorded horseshoe. I mean, it'll be an archaeological answer, won't it? They'll have found. Well, yeah. I mean, just why? I mean, donkeys don't wear them, sort of. Other animals don't wear them. Are you sure? Are you sure? Are you sure donkeys don't wear them? I mean. Well, no, I'm not sure, really. I thought that was a bit of a reach. It's a bit presumptuous. I presume it's. I mean, would it have something to do with the. Well, no, because you. Shoe. I was going to say they don't need them if they're on grasses. Yeah. Wild horses. Well, because they were put to work on hard metalled roads, I suppose. Or. I don't. Anyway. I don't know why I'm trying to answer it. When did. When did. When did. Yeah, of course. It's on the board. The first horseshoes for Michael, please. First recorded horseshoes zero. 345-606-0973 how many words in the english language? Music on ice cream vans. Growth spots. Look, we got loads here. What's going on? This is awful. What are you doing? Just sitting there giggling at my dad jokes. You should be ringing in with answers to these questions. We've done the referee, kind of. But if you've ever witnessed a referee sending himself off, I want to hear about it. Do dogs prefer to sleep in the dark? Why do we have growth spurts instead of just a nice slow and steady rise? Ice cream vans. Do you inherit the music or can you choose your own? How many words in the english language and when did horses start wearing shoes? Zero. 345-606-0973 mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's ten to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Lots of questions to get through. Let's rattle through a few answers if we can, and then see where we are with a couple of minutes to go. Usi is in Tower Hamlet. UsI, question or answer? It's an answer, mate. Carry on, mate. It's regarding the ice cream van, trams and. Well, you can request if you make your van, sort of. If you go to Whitney Morrison, which are the main manufacturers who actually make the ice cream van, you can request for your own tram, but majority of time, if you're just buying ice cream van on for independent seller, then you get the chime that's given. But it's also quite easy just to replace it. You can go online. It's the chimes box, which are made by the company called Harvey's and you get an amplifier with it. You can buy them on eBay and Western. Fairly comprehensive answer. I mean, the answer is there isn't an answer. There's lots of different answers. You do inherit it, but you can change it. What about on the really bang, modern ones? Can you not just stick it on an mp3 or something like that? Well, that's the thing. The new vans, they are got, they're a lot more technical now. Runs through electricity and stuff. So nowadays they are. They get more modernized. They're not as sounding as chimney, they're sounding more sort of like polyphonic rather than got a richer sound, a deeper sound. What's yours at the moment? You driving? At the moment I'm driving a Mercedes sprint, which is quite a modern one. But I don't really play my tribe. My time is. Would you like the cornetto? But the thing is. Sorry. Oh, Soleimio is your child? Yes, but I don't play my triangle because I'm static, so I don't go around the state. So we're stack pitch working. Okay. So you just drive to your. To your pitch and then open up for business. There's no point having it. I mean, do you ever give it a blast just for fun? I do for children. I do for children. I mean, if the children come and they want to hear the triangle? You know, we do. Put it on for the children. It makes their day. Where's your pitch, if you don't mind me asking? I'm based at Victoria park. There we go. So look out for USI and if you're very, very good, he might give you a little blast of osole mio. Have a round of applause. You do a five ice. Do you do the five ice? We do, we do still do five ice. I like a five ice, just in case. They're very good. I actually had a customer ask me yesterday and I didn't say we do. Yes. Very discerning. Very discerning customer there. Just. Just in case I'm ever passing, I thought I'd give you a heads up. 1252 is the time. Piers is in Oxford. Question or answer? Hi, I've got an answer. Carry on. Oh, it's not a great phone line. I don't know if you. Let's crack on and see how we get on. Go on. Apologies. I've got the answer for the mirror question. Yes. The answer is, depending on what the reflective surfaces is, so what shape it is with a mirror, because it's flat, you would get an exact mirror image, whereas if it was then convex, that's when the mirror would end up being inverted. And that actually happens with your eye. So when. When an image is seen in your crystalline lens, which is the part just behind your pupil, because it's a convex shape, that then inverts the image onto the back of your retina, or macula. Yes. And that's when your eye or your brain then decides that you're seeing the image upside down and it would then invert it in your. In your head. So it's all to do with. To do with the shape or the shape of a surface, dual collective surface you're looking at. Okay, so it's got nothing to do with the fact that the eyes are arranged horizontally? No, I don't believe it does, Keith, you dope. Honestly, I can't believe what I have to work with Pierce qualifications. I work with optometrist and optimizers. I'll do nicely. So the brain is actually almost rejecting what the eyes are telling it? In a sense, yes. So it's actually a brilliant question is that theoretically, if we were. I don't know what the word I'm looking for is, but theoretically, it could be that everything is upside down. If it's going to be inverted horizontally, it could equally as well be inverted vertically, but our brain would not recognize that, whereas it wouldn't notice on a horizontal inversion. Absolutely. And it does take. You can get glasses which will invert you, and after about three or four days of wearing fully, it will actually put. Your brain will work out and it will invert with your game. That has elevated it to one of the best arts. So you could put glasses on, that would undo what your brain does. You'd walk around, everything would be upside down, but after a few days, your brain would actually adjust to. Absolutely. Ah, piers. Brilliant. Have a round of applause and also another round of applause for the question, actually, because I was a bit short. Was it Steve, I think, who asked the question? I forget, but that was a brilliant question and Keith's answer, sadly, was absolutely appalling. That's so embarrassing for you, Keith. Joe's in Clithero in Lancashire. Question or answer, Joe? It's an answer. James, carry on, mate. It's about the horseshoe question. Yes. So it was the Romans that first started to put steel iron shoes on. Was it really? Yeah. Well, they were the first ones that they know because they used it to extend the range of the animals. So we're going BC then. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. And then at the same time, across Asia, they were doing it with plant materials, but strapping them to feet. So they're kind of two. Two sort of answers, but both around the same sort of time. We got people always doing it. We got a rough. A rough date for the Romans, roughly. I think the steel ones are 980 I and they'd be. It wouldn't be ad. The Romans were long gone by then. Be about. I thought it'd be three or 400 bc on this one. I'd have thought. Yeah, no, that's fine. Ancient Romans did it first. As with so many other things, qualifications, I am a farrier. Oh, you really? Yeah. How's business? Good, because there's not that many of you, so the business. You'd be surprised. Is that right? Is it still. Still knocking away? It's busy. Yeah, I like that. I really do. Okay. Round of applause, Joe. Nice one. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. A lovely answer. Speaking of lovely answers, Scott's been in touch to answer the question of how can you tell someone's middle class? And his answer, which is going to take some beating, is that they call the cornetto song o sole mio. Yeah. All right. Darren's in Portsmouth. Darren, question or answer? It's an answer for the referee's question, hopefully. Carry on. Well, the referee's question is, can a referee set himself off the pitch? It's pretty difficult one, because obviously you're the referee, you're on the pitch to enforce the rules of the game. Yes. You. The only way you could send. You have to send yourself off the pitch. Yes. The problem is I'm not. I'm pretty sure there's not an FA ruling on this, whether referee can or can't. I am. I am. I am supremely confident from my inbox that it has happened. I know of one incident that happened. It's definitely not happened at pro level or semi pro level. I think it might have happened somewhere in Peterborough about a Sunday league match, but it definitely wouldn't have happened. You're right. No, you're right. That's what I'm getting from my inbox. Peterborough, Northend and Royal Mail Ayl in 2005, referee who explained afterwards that he'd had a bit of a tough day, lost his rag with a. With a goalie and then sent himself off and abandoned the match. Respect for him doing that, actually. Yeah. It is very, very unheard of for a referee. No, it's not very, very unheard of, because we've literally just heard of it. Well, it's hardly heard of. It's very, very hardly heard of. Yeah. It's not a common occurrence. We know that because we can only think of one between all the, you know, the gazillions of people. Have a quick round of applause. I want to squeeze in one more, if I can. Aaron is in goo. I thought I said Google, then, as I was about to say. You're not allowed to Google what you do. Erin is in gool, not Google. I must get my glasses fixed. Question or answer? Yeah, answer. Carry on. And it's on the caller that called up about pubertal growth and why you grow in spurts as opposed to this continuous growth throughout puberty. And the reason is because you've got to think of the determinants of longitudinal bone growth. And by that I mean the growth, basically, of your arms and your legs, which is the main determinants of height. Yes. Controlled by the release of hormones by a little gland that sits at the base of the brain. Right. And the release of hormones that control that. Things like growth hormone and your sex steroids is not a continuous. It's not continuously released in a pulsatile way, which increases to its maximum at the point of your growth spurt during puberty, and therefore you grow in these spurts as opposed to this continuous growth. With qualifications. You've done it. You've done it. Don't worry. Qualifications. I'm a medical student at the University of Oxford. Well, it's paying off, Aaron. Congratulations. Round of applause and finally, Mikey Marlo. We squeeze in one more question or answer. Mike. It's an answer about the words quickly. How many in the english language? 250,000 in general use. 750,000 in total, approximately. Qualifications? Qualifications. We developed a board game called word blind, which is pure etymology. Love it. I love how many answers you've managed to cull from your career in developing board games. And there's another one I use all 750. 50,000 in the average show. Have a round of applause. Of course, of course. Thank you. Thank you very much. That's it from me for another day. We'll be doing it all again tomorrow morning from ten. Meantime, the next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Majid Naras.