What's up with the washing machine?

It's three minutes after twelve and I've actually remembered a question for the first time in about a decade of doing mystery hour. But given that I just slagged off last week's callers for providing us with really boring questions, in the first instance, I've realised my question is possibly the most boring question of all, so I don't know if I dare put it out there. What's he talking about? I've no idea what mystery hour is. Alright, let me fill you in. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that's not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. Probably have to stop calling it a dial, don't we? Now that Dab is taking over. Do you know they turned off FM in Norway yesterday? That's it. It's gone. Fm's gone forever. It's digital or nothing. But I digress slightly. You have in the back of your brain somewhere a question that is crying out for an answer. Today, you'll get your answer. Unless the question's about Donald Trump, in which case I think mystery is not a strong enough word to describe this continuing unfolding saga. Hit the numbers now. You will get through. There are two reasons why your question might not get on the board. The first is that it's boring, although anyone who was listening last week will know that that's a very movable goalpost. The second is that it's repetitious, which means that we've dealt with it relatively recently and somehow I've managed to remember the fact that we've dealt with it relatively recently. Rest of the team still relatively new, so they might not spot the repetition. You can guard against it by going to LBC dot co dot UK and having a look at the mystery hour archive, where it's funny, it's a good read, regardless of whether you're there just to double check your own question, or whether you just want to be diverted for an hour or two. It's worth having a look at that. But the way it works is not dissimilar to those newspaper and magazine articles where. Or features columns where, you know, notes and queries, or Q and A's. So someone writes in and says, why do we do this? What's the origin of that? Why do we call that that? Where does that come from? When that does that, why does that do this? And then several weeks later, someone else writes in with an answer that's probably wrong. This is the polar opposite of that, in the sense that you'll get an answer within an hour. That's almost certainly right. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you happen to know the answer, ring the same number and tell me the answer. And you might get, if you're lucky and we've decided that you've gone definitive, after checking your qualifications, you might get an absolute top drawer mystery hour. Round of applause. Possibly the most. The second most sought after plaudit on british radio. The most sought after plaudit on british radio is, of course, a Ray Liotta. If you don't know what I'm talking about, you better hope that someone rings in with an absolute corker of an answer later today, and then you'll discover what a ray Liotta is. Phone number I will repeat whenever there's a phone line free. So the first five minutes is a little bit of wheat and chaff sorting. I think we forgot to do that last week, ended up with mostly chaff. So this is the bit where people will ring in with quite a boring question about cars or roundabouts or motoring, and Caroline has to very politely invite you to sling your hook, although she forgot how to do that last week. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you've got a question, or indeed, if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer. And given the political potpourri that we've spent the last 2 hours sniffing, there's no recorded incidents of Mister Yah ever throwing up a heated debate. So if you're desperate to get involved with LBC, but you want to sort of dip your toe in first before you run the risk of a full on nuclear fallout, then this is a lovely way just to. Just to sort of break your duck, get on air, but it's got to be a good question. There's no point ringing in just for the sake of it. If it's not a good question, you probably won't get on. And if you do get on with a bad question, I'll be very rude to you. Are we all good? We're good to go. We know the number. Oh, and Twitter, which I keep forgetting to use, but for some reason in the last couple of weeks, just before Christmas, but really doubly so since Christmas, lots of people are using Twitter while listening to the program to kind of augment it and put out funny gifs and comments. Not just the usual answering the topics that we're having, but a kind of. I don't want to sound silly, but it's like an extension of the studio into the world of social media. Yeah, and it's really good fun. So if you don't follow me on Twitter, you probably should, because there's some nice stuff going on there and if you don't like it, you can always unfollow me afterwards. Okayrjamesob is the name. You need to do that. And we're back in the room. Michael is in Hanworth. Michael, can I tell you what question I wanted to ask? And you can tell me whether you think it's too boring to put on the list. Because I've never really had my own question on the list since I asked why you can't have a lion at weekends. You always want to get out of bed. And then from Monday to Friday, as soon as you wake up, you want to stay in bed. So can I tell you what? How do washers work on screws and bolts? No, I'm done. Is that really boring? Yeah, really, really dull. James, I apologize, but no, mate, you've got. Hey, no one else will. What's the deal? That's it. You like the co, you like the conscience or the fool in King Lear? I don't know which right question or answer. Michael, it's a question. Of course, even though you say there's going to be no heated debate, I think this will turn into a heated debate. The reason why is I. I bought a flask making my coffee before I went to work one morning a couple of days ago. Made it with milk, heated up the milk, put the hot milk in the flask, stirred it with a metal spoon, the inside, smashed it. Just obliterated. Yeah. Not the whole class. No, the vacuumy bit, the glass bit inside? Yeah. Yeah. Some kind of reaction. But I'm just thinking, what's actually happening there? And I thought, how do you stir it there? What's the. I tell you what, I might have held back if you hadn't been so rude about my washer question. It wasn't a chemical reaction. You smashed it with your spoon. If you want to stir what's in a flask, you put the lid on and you shake it up and down you lemon. What? I'm not that heavy handed. Of course you are. You're not. It's like a really thin little bit of glass. Didn't you ever do it in chemistry at school? No, no, no, that's wrong. You. I'm going to. I'll say it is wrong now, because someone will phone in, one of the professors will come in and. Professor on this, mate, you've hit glass with metal. And you phoned in to ask me why it broke? No. No. What are you going to ring in with next week, James? I just drove my moped through my sitting room window. Can you explain to me why the window smashed? James, you're going to regret the information. I'm not. I'm not going to regret it. I'm going all in on this being a rubbish question. The fact that it was hot. Well, it's up to yours. Though. The fact that it was hot might have contributed to. It was a heated debate. It wasn't a heated debate, it's just a dismissal of a ludicrous question. I'm going to replace your question with a question about how washers work, ok? No, I'm not. All right, I'll put it up there. Why did Michael's glass flask break when he started hitting it with a metal spoon? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you can call to answer that. And I'll tell you what, if he's allowed to have that question, then I want my washer question on the board as well. So I put a new cage in the back of the Volvo for the dog the other day. You can flip it up and down, it stops the dog launching herself over the. Over the back seat whenever I open a sandwich in the front seat. And it needed what? And I lost one. And misses O'Brien was, quote, helping me install it. End quotes. And it was her fault we lost the washer, but she insisted that it was my fault because it dropped as she was handing it to me, even though I wasn't looking at where. Anyway, I said, we don't need a washer. And she said, well, then, why do they put them in the packet? I said, look, it'll be fine, we've got a washer on the other side. You don't need a washer on this side. She says, haven't you got a washer in your toolbox? Toolbox. That's defied a few preconceptions about me, hasn't it? And I said, no, you don't need a washer. She said, what's the washer for? I don't know what a washer is for. So you know when you put a screw through a hole and you've got a bolt and then you put the washer down the screw before you put the bolt on, what does the washer do? And if that's not the most exciting mystery, our question of the day, I shall give you the money myself. Peter is in St. Anton. Peter, question or answer? It's a question, please, Jay. You sound surprisingly calm, given the excitement of the question that I just shared with the nation. Well, I'm trying to hold it together. That's the spirit, mate. That's the spirit. Carry on. So my question is, I am out in St. Anton, as you said, skiing with my mates at the moment, as you'd expect, pretty chilly. Oh, God. St. Anton. Yes. You're somewhere foreign. Sorry, I should have clocked that sooner. I love the idea that you're ringing Mister Arrow in the middle of your skiing holiday. Go on. So you're off on your, on your holly bobs? Yeah, absolutely. So we're on the holly bobs and what we've done is chucked on our thermals, as you do in the morning, and we threw on a pair of long johns each. Somebody asked the question, exactly why on earth are long johns called long johns? And none of us had a clothes long johns. It begs the question of whether or not, you know, our more conventional undercrackers were ever called short johns. So we just want origin of the phrase long johns in the context of underwear. Exactly right. Keep you nice and warm. Who was John? Anything to do? Little John. Long John. Long johns. Long johns. Might something do with armour? You wear it under armour. I don't even know why I'm thinking out loud. I'm never going to get close to the answer. Do you know how washers work by any chance? I have absolutely no idea. That's why it's such a brilliant question, Peter. Enjoy your skiing. When are you off on the slopes? What are you going to do? You're going to hang around till you get an answer or are you going to wait for the podcast? Well, we're currently tucking into an absolutely delicious pizza on the side of the mountain. And as soon as the show's over, we'll get back out there. I love this. I'm so touched and flattered, but also really quite uncomfortably jealous. It's 1212. Ian is in welling. Ian, question or answer? Question. And I can tell you how washes work. No, you can't. I've got to go. You can't. Unfortunately, I'm keeping it in the background to see if anyone actually can. You really? Yeah, I can. I'll go on. No, do that first because I want to get that out of the way. Hang on. Has anyone rung in with it? No. Someone's rung in to tell me how washing machines work. I think they might have got the slightly get Jerome on quick. Is that. No. Carry on. Ian, how do washers work? Okay, washers have two different functions. The first is if you're bolting something to a soft material, like a plastic, like the interior of your car spreads the load and under and it stops the bolt pulling through. Otherwise you need a very, very large bolt head. So it's a way of spreading a load. Oh, so I didn't need it because the dog cage is very robust. It depends on how big your dog is. If your dog throws itself against the tiny. I've got a cavapoo, mate. I've got a cavapoo. Looks like a teddy bear. The other way washers can work is a sealing mechanism. So this is really boring. But the washer that goes on, the sump plug that holds the oil will be made of copper. And it's designed. It's designed to be deformable, so you can only use them once. And that squish is a bit like. A bit like a rubber seal, only. Only it's much. It's metal. It's not as bouncy, it's not as flexible as rubber. And the third way that they can use. If you ever see those split washers, you're a washer genius. How did this happen? That was a random question that I asked before. It's not even what you've rung in to do. How do you know so much about washers? Because I've been restoring old cars for mate. This is incredible. I thought if we're gonna get a Rayleigh, I think we're gonna get a radio. I mean, there's no way anyone knows as much about washers as Ian does. We're gonna get a Ray Liotta. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come right here. Wait there, bait. Okay, I just gotta do something. All right? So stay there. I'll definitely be back to you. Jerome's in highbreed. Jerome. Question or answer? I'm afraid, James. What? What? To Jerome. I'm afraid the last call has stolen my thunder a little bit there, because I wanted. I wasn't going to ask about washing machines. I was going to answer about the washers. The one washer he's missed out, of course, is the spring washer. Stay there. No, no, no. Stay there. He was about to go to that. He was about to mention the spring. So why is it. Why does it say washing machine on my computer screen? That must be the mistake of your research. Oh. So I've invited you on to mock you and it turns out it's my colleague that actually has made the mistake. Indeed. Well, I'm gonna have to give you a round of applause, then. Yay. Oh, you're very welcome. It's 1215. This is LBC from the. 40 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery air is underway. I've given you a big explainer. You can work out how it works by listening. We need to know. Yes, we do actually need to know why. What was his name, fellows flask broke when he hit the glass bit with a metal spoon, and he wants to know why the glass broke. I'm being a little unkind. There may be a chemical, or at least a scientific answer to that. We just went definitive on washers, which was a little unfair, for reasons. I'll explain in a moment. And we want to know the origin of the phrase long johns. But first, back to Ian in welling. It was Michael, wasn't it, with the flask? Ian, mate, I just dropped a massive clangor. I thought the other fella had rung in mistaking washers for washing machines, because that's what they wrote on the screen, so I thought it was going to be really funny. You've just given us a really good answer about what washers are and how they work. And then I'd go to Jerome and he'd start telling me how washing machines work and we'd all laugh at his expense, but it ended up backfiring. So I owe you a round of applause, first of all, and then you can ask your question. Thank you. You're very welcome. And you've got Aureliota as well, so, I mean, your day's peaked. It doesn't matter what the question is, you've already won. It's all downhill from here. You've won Thursday. Come on, what's the question? What do you grow seedless plants from? So I was eating some seedless grapes and it suddenly occurred to me, how do you grow another seedless grapevine if you've got no seeds? Same with seedless oranges or. I don't think they are actually seedless. Well, they're pretty much seed, yeah. I think. I think that there is a just. It's a sort of evolutionary manipulation, you know, what's it called? Breeding. Well, I know that. I know that the seeds are bred out of them, genetically modified, but they still have a seed plants. How do you get new ones? I think there is a seed in a seedless grape. It's just really, really soft. No, I'll tell you what. I'm going to go into the kitchen and I'm going to bite open a seedless grape live on air. All right, let's do it now. Come on. Is that just. Yeah. No, no, let's do it. It's like now, I think your days peak from Donald Trump. It's like tomorrow's world or something. Or mythbusters. Yeah. Gone. Bite it right down the middle, though. No, no, there is. There's like a. There's like a sort of fleshy mass in the center of the grape. Sticking my finger in it, and there's a fleshy mass. There's a sort of cern nucleus to it. They got me to a grape. Fake news. Fake news for me. And he's already found the fleshy mass. He's pretending he hasn't in order to score political points. What do you think this is? All right, okay, I'll leave the question up there. If I'm right, I'll probably make some arrogant claim to a round of applause subsequently, but it's probably I'm wrong, given that you've just checked. Thank you, Ian, and great work on the washers. If you missed the washers, guys, that was. I finally got a question of my own on mystery hour, and it was a zinger. How do washers work? Put that out. That'll be going viral. Diana is in Surbiton. Diana, question or answer? This is a question, James. Stupid, really. Why do ducks walk in a line? They can't afford the bus fare. Pardon? They can't afford the bus fare. Why do ducks walk in a line? Like, one after the other. So, Mummy duck often baby ducks. You see it, but, like, grown up ducks do it in groups, they will walk in a line. Or do you just mean a family grouping of a big duck and then lots of little duck ducklings, as we call them, living near the top thames, you know. And I often see them, you know, and they bum that. And all the little ducklings behind, you know, and I said to my husband, why do they walk in line? This is all ask James. I like the sound of your husband. I like the sound of your husband. Very wise man. Very. I presume it's to avoid danger. I don't really know. I've often wondered. Well, I'm going to put it on there. Why do ducks walk in a line? Why do ducks walk in a line? I like it. Well, that's not a silly question at all, Diana. But it did queue me up for quite a nifty. Gag, so I'm very grateful to you. 23 minutes after twelve is the time Johnny is in Ipswich. Johnny, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Johnny and the grape question. Yes. I didn't hear what you said to the. To the caller because I was talking to a researcher, but I believe it's because they're not grown from a seed, they're grown from like a clone from the vine. So like a splice from the vine. How do you mean? I got taught in like, year nine biology. Good, I'm glad you were paying attention. One of the few times I did, yeah. But, yeah, they sort of like cut the flower and then the place that. So the vine and place into the soil and it grows from the soil, so you. You grow it from a branch rather than a. From a cutting rather than from a seed and then they grow seedless. Yeah. And when do you want to grow more seedless grapes? You just get another cutting from. From any old vine. Even the ones that you've grown the seedless grapes on? I think so, yeah. So it's growing. Ah. Not to. Yeah. Ah. Oh, wow. Shall I make some other noises of revelation as well? Just to go for the full set? That makes perfect sense, because evolutionary, you're not actually trying to breed it to be survival of the fittest, to be a better grape than the one before. You're just trying to breed it to be seedless. Oh, yeah. Year nine biology. Yep. Nicely played, Johnny. Nicely played. It's because most grapevines are not grown from seeds, they're actually grown from cuttings. And that's how you get a seedless grape. Quite why you'd get a seedless grape from a cutting and not from a. From a seat, I don't know. But that. That's the fact. Great work. 1224 is the time I've already learned something new. Ian is in Red Hill. Ian, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Go on then. Right. Myself and my girlfriend were talking last night, and when you were younger, everyone used to say, oh, don't bang your temple. You know, on the side of your head. You one each side. Don't bang your temples because you'll die. And we. And it came up, just came up in conversation last night as to whether that was actually true or not. If you bang yourself really hard on the temple, you'll die. Yes. I never heard that one. I remember that if you sneeze with your eyes open, your eyes will fall out. No, I'm not sure about that one. My eye looks like it has at the moment, actually. So I'm not doing any comedy on that front. So if you bang yourself really hard on the temple. If you bang yourself really hard on the temples, you on both of them at the same time, do you have to do both at the same time? No, I don't know, actually. I better not try in the studio. That will go viral. Obviously, you'll understand. You'll understand why we didn't try it, just in case. Yes. Yeah, apparently. Or I remember from being at school, we both do, which is why. And we went to independent schools that were, I mean, miles and miles away. Sure. But you both heard the same kind of. Exactly the same myth or. Myth or, you know. So just to clarify, is it on both temples at the same time or just one hand? On one temple? Don't know. If you banged yourself really hard on the temple, you would die. Well, you. I mean, if anybody else. Did you mind? I mean, I don't. I don't see what the mystery is. If I smashed you on the side of the head with a hammer, mate, you'd be dead. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, no, but. But, yeah, not with, like, a hammer. Just sort of like, if you got, like. And I know, obviously, the. The cranium to give it. Have you ever heard of anyone's dying in this fashion? Well. Well, I don't know, but I don't know. How old are you? I'm 41. How old is your partner, your girlfriend? She's 36. 41. 77 years between you. Have either of you ever heard of anybody dying as a result of a self administered temple blow or not self administered or just something else? I know. Obviously, if you bang your head really hard or not even really hard, obviously, in the unfortunate case of Michael Schumacher, you know that it can lead to quite an upbeat hour, this, mate. No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but. I know, I know, obviously, but just. Is it because the temple's softer? It's softer than anywhere else on the skull that might be where this comes from. Don't know. Nor do I. No, I like it. I like it. I just don't think. I mean, I don't know how you prove it, though, without. Without probably breaking some of comm rules and killing a listener. Trevor is in Rochester. Trevor, question or answer? Answer. Go on, which one? The temple. How'd you do that? I've only just finished talking to him. Yeah, well, I'll just listen. Well, that's the spirit. Caroline's trying to make up for last week's rubbish questions. Clearly she's got herself on. On auto. She's got herself on turbo charged today. Go on then. What's the answer? Can you do. Can. What there is. That is a very dangerous spot. The. The bone there is quite thin and underneath the bone in that area is an artery called the middle meningeal artery, of course, and it's quite vulnerable. So if you do get a blow there, it can damage the artery and you can get a brain bleed. So if you did martial arts, it's one of the spots where you're, you're advised, you know, to be careful of. Is it different from a pressure point? Yeah, I wouldn't call it a pressure point. It's just a vulnerable area on the body where you've got an area of the bone which is quite thin over an artery which is quite superficial. And that artery is vulnerable to damage if you do sort of dent that bone in. So you could. I mean, if you banged yourself hard enough anywhere on your head, you could die. But the temple is a particularly vulnerable spot, so you should. You should steer clear of it. That's. That's quite right, yeah. Great answer. Qualifications? I think I know. I'm an osteopath and I teach osteopathy at the British School of Osteopathy. Oh, I got that completely wrong. I thought you were going to be a kung fu kid. I used to do aikido and I did actually accidentally clip someone on the temple and nearly knock her out. Oh, dear. A long time ago. Yeah, we were. It was a very kind of the equal opportunity sport at the time, you know. She forgot the safe word, didn't she, Trevor? Give him a round of applause. It's coming up to 12:30. Well, you live and learn. So why did Michael's flask break? Why did the. Why did the glass in Michael's flask break when he banged it quite hard with a lump of metal? Zero. 345-606-0973 and the origin of the phrase long johns we haven't got there. Why long Johns? Why do we call them Long John? And we need to do this one, please. Why do ducks walk in a straight line? Zero 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those, and believe it or not, there could be an embarrassment around the corner, because Michael's dream has come true. Question about why his glass flask? Glass flask. It's almost like a tongue twister. His glass flask broke when he hit it with a metal spoon, stirring the coffee inside. And he dreamt of getting an answer from Professor Hal. Professor Hal is on the line. He'll be up first after mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 33 minutes after twelve long johns, flasks and ducks in a straight line. Ducks in a line. If you can answer any of those, you know what to do. As promised, Professor Hal is here. Professor Hal, if you don't know, is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and something of a mystery, our legend? Question or answer, Hal? Hello, James. I want to address your scathing response to the vacuum flask question. You're not going to make me regret mocking him, are you, James? I am. And you're going to be hoisted by your own petard. I'm afraid not. Again, it's what it's almost like Michael predicted this was going to happen. Vacuum flasks. They're called vacuum flasks because they are made of a glass insert which has got a double sleeve. It got two pieces of glass separated with a vacuum, and that's to stop convection, current and conduction, which is what keeps your coffee or your tea hot. Now, the thing about glass, as we all know, is it's very, very unforgiving when it comes to extremes of temperature within its own body. So if you put hot water into a bath and nothing crack, because the bit that gets hot first expands, the bit that hasn't got hot contracts or stays at the same temperature and therefore the glass tears itself apart. I think your caller puts his hot coffee and then puts some cold milk in the cold milk, cooled a section of the flask, which contracted. They're very, very fragile anyway, and that's what broke it. I think he said, hot milk. Hot milk, cold milk. No, shut up. You can't have hot milk, cold milk. This is physics, man. It's all about the. He said hot milk, though. He poured it all in into the cold flask. Yeah. Right. So if you've got a cold flask, he put a hot item. That's what the flask is for. No, I know that, but they know. They're very unforgiving and we haven't yet solved the issue. I'm not ready yet. I'm not ready to climb down yet, actually. How on this. Do you remember the crushed can experiment at school? Yeah, I loved that. I love that. Yeah. You get a bunsen burner in a petrol can. Well, not a petrol can, but a can with a tight lid, and you put a tiny bit of water in it and you get the bunsen burner underneath it and then steam starts coming out the top. You tie the lid on really tightly and then atmospheric pressure crushes the metal can. It's a brilliant trick. I've done it with my kids. You can do it on a gas stove. I don't know if that's unsafe, but it works. No, it's not. You can use an empty soda can as well. But the point is that what happens is the water boils, it turns to gaseous water, aka steam, that displaces the air. And when you cool it down, spacious water turns from a gas to a liquid, which occupies sublimation. That'll be sublimation. It's condensation, actually. But the point is that there then becomes a vacuum inside the can. So if you have a differential of pressure, what's inside can't hold out, help hold the side of the can out. So that's the same thing with the vacuum cloth. They are still notoriously very, very fragile. Yeah, but it broke because he clunked it with his spoon. It didn't break because of physics. It did break in the physics and because he clung to it with his spoon. If he hadn't clunked it with his spoon, it wouldn't have broken and there would still be physics. He seemed quite adamant. Yeah, he seemed quite adamant that he hadn't done that, hadn't done what he did. He was vigorously stirring his coffee. It didn't break by accident. It broke. Well, it did break by accident, but it broke upon contact with the spoon when we started phoning. Then. How did that get past the researchers, then? It's obvious. It's as pain as a pike stuff, but I think. Thank you. I haven't finished yet. Flasks and undergo a certain number of expansions and contractions. The same with any pressure vessel. And after a while, they're going to break because they just can't tolerate. Because of the spoon, not because of the expansion and the contraction. If the spoon hadn't been there, the flask would still be with us today. I'm going to very gently disagree. It could have happened as he said. What do you think he said? What is it you think you heard? I don't know, because I was on the phone to your researchers when the question finished, because I like to get in real quick. I know you do, but he described putting his coffee, which would be hot, and then his milk, which was also hot, and then he stirred it around and the frost broke. But he didn't say. Did he actually say, and I quote, I hit it with my spoon, unquote. Yeah. I don't think he did. I think he. When you said you hit it with a spoon, he said, no, no, no. You think he managed to stir his coffee inside a narrow flask without touching the sides. But I do it all the time. Do you? Why? Why an appropriate spoon? Why? Because it's elegant, isn't it? He wants to hear a clinky, clanky noise of a spoon hitting china in the first thing in the morning. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. I think. I think. I still think I'm right. And I'm happy for people who are tuning in and thinking that mystery is like the rest of the week. I promise you, when I'm wrong on mystery, I admit it, but I'm not wrong on this. It's the spoon. That. It's the spoon what did it. But, James, what sort of product would allow a gentle tap from a spoon to destroy it? They get more and more fragile with use because they can. It was brand new. Expansions and contractions. It was brand new. They were what? There was a brand new flask. Did he actually say that as well? Drop the mic. Psych. Yes. Okay, let's get him back on. Let's get him back on. We kept his number, Michael. Oh, you won't be able to get through now. It's gone mystery. Fantastic. Can we get him back on? We'll get Michael back on, all right. How? That's fine. I can't keep you on hold until he gets here because there's lots of other people waiting. But if I'll establish with him, if the spoon touched the sides and or the frask is bland, new, then I win. No, no, no. If a spoon cuts the sides with sufficient force to break it, they're supposed to withstand some sort of percussion. But what if it was brand new? Then it hasn't had a history of expanding and contracting, so that makes it even less likely that a gentle tap with a spoon would break it. He wants to get his money back for that flask, if you ask me. Right. So you think it might have been defective? Yes. Well, if a gentle tap from a spoon would break every single flask. No one would have any flasks. They've got to have some sort of robustness. Why haven't they? I'm. Is he there? Have we got him? Yeah. All right, stay that. Stay there. How? I'm gonna get Michael back on. She's quite serious. Apologies to. Howard is waiting to talk to us about ducks. Michael. Yes, Jane, meet Professor. How, mate? I've been listening. Hello, Professor Howe. Hello, Michael. What a pleasure. Exactly right. It's still my show. It's still my show. Was the flask new? Yes. And was the milk hot? Yes. And did this? Pardon? As I said at the beginning, the program, I heated up the milk. First of all, I didn't use any water. Just heated up the milk. Exactly. I poured the milk into the flask. The new flask. The new flask, yeah. Interrupting there. You're going to miss me, James. You're going to miss the answer. This is why Howard's on the ball. And did the spoon. Did the spoon. Did the spoon, while stirring, touch the sides of the flask? Possibly so, but not enough, not vigorously, is the word you use. And the word you said I used, touch. Oh, I think I'm winning. Why do I think I'm winning? Everyone else thinks I'm losing. Okay. So I had to stir it. Otherwise I thought, well, do I make coffee, make three cups of coffee and then pour into a flask, or do I then pour the milk in, pour the coffee in, pour the sugar in, and I think, use any water. I just like a milky coffee. Yeah, I like that. And I thought, well, surely stirring it with a spoon, I thought would be okay. I didn't. I think you. I don't think you know your own stroke. Okay, Hal, any changes in your analysis, professor? Hal, if you hit the flask with this, with enough force to break it, I'm sure that you wouldn't know about it. But what else could have caused it? All right, I'm wrong. No, I lose, I lose, I lose. What else have you broken recently, Michael? Have you broken anything else? Only hearts. Professor Hal, round of applause. Give Mike. Give Michael a round of applause as well. Been a good sport, Michael, you can have a freebie. There you go. There you go. Yeah. All right. You can stop sending me tweets now telling me how badly I've lost. First time for everything. It's 1240. Thank God it never happens during political debates. 1241 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why did ducks walk in a straight line? And what's the origins of the underwear that we like to call long Johns? Howard is in Westminster. Howard, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's an answer. Hello, Howard. Happy New Year. I'm glad to say that you were right about the ducks. Ah, go on. I can't remember what I said now. Anyway, I've got no confidence. My confidence has been shattered by Professor Howe. You said they walk in a line for safety. I have seven days of observational experiments because I took my son to a rather expensive village in Suffolk centre park. Yeah. Yeah, that's the one. When were you there? When? Yeah, we were there between Christmas and New Year, just for a visit. We didn't. We didn't stay. We just went to see some friends. We were there, yeah. Oh, mate. We could have gone for a swim together. That sounded a bit weird. That would have been lovely. Carry on. Yeah. One of the things my boy loves about the place is all the wildlife and every day he gets a kilo of birds food and chucks it out of the back window. And all the ducks and the moorhens, everything comes to eat it, even the little deer, and it's lovely. But every day, I noticed that. We both noticed that the moorhens would come running over and the squirrels would come running over and all the other birds could. Pigeons come running over the ducks every day. What they did was they landed about 20, 30ft away, got in a group and then marched in a straight line into the middle of this affray of other animals. And then all the other animals ran off and the ducks got the food. So they were kind of like Star wars stormtroopers. So straight line is tactical. Tactical for to disperse rivals for food and also to minimize the target size for a predator. Absolutely. I think you're right. Can I ask you a personal question? Yeah. Did you see an otter? We saw deer, but we didn't. Did you see an otter then? No, but my mate claims he saw an otter. And I have a bit of a thing about otters and, God, it's gone peak partridge today, hasn't it? And I. I think he probably saw a mink, because I go to a wildlife park in Norfolk whenever I can in the hope of seeing an otter and I've never seen one and it's beginning to really bother me. And I said to him in passing when we were in the pool, how many times did you go on the cyclone, by the way? I didn't go on there. Really lightweight. Nine. Nine, Howard. Nine times on this? Yeah. No, seriously, hardcore misses O'Brien and I went on it by ourselves after a while because the kids had had enough. But anyway, I'm telling my mate how keen I am to see an otter and he says, cool. Is he, like, oh, we saw one this morning when we opened the curtains, there was one on the patio near the lake and it just ran off again. And I said, that wasn't an otter. There's no way you just saw an otter. A flipping centre park. When I spent about 14 hours in a wildlife with my binoculars hoping to see, I said, no, mate, I saw an otter. How big was it? And he showed me how big it was. I said, that's too very small. He said it was a baby otter. I don't think he saw an otter. Do you think he saw an otter? We saw rabbits, but only in the. You know, only when it was dark. But, yeah, there is all sorts of worms. I'll be surprised if he saw. I still don't think he saw it. Those deers you saw. Muntjac, mate. Muntjack. That's the ones, yeah. Round of applause for Howard. Thank you. Thank you. It's quarter to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Should we go to the travel now and then come back? Let's get this question up quickly. James in Haylesworth, question or answer, Jane? Question? Please carry on. If I had a human organ transplanted into me and then I died, and then that organ was transplanted onto the next person, they died and then it was transplanted again onto the next person, I'm really interested to know what could be the potential lifespan of a human organ, say heart, liver or kidneys, if they're sort of transplanted, I don't know if they'd all be the same. I mean, so, frankly, I think chemically, it would be very difficult to use it again and again and again because of all the drugs that you take to make it sort of work and fit and stuff. But equally, you might have a different lifespan for a heart that you have for a kidney. But if there's a proper doctor listening, a rough ballpark answer to what the potential lifespan of a human organ is once it's been removed from the host organism. Yeah, kind of. How many? Why? Why, Jane? Why do you want to know? Have you spotted a business opportunity? I've been dying to ask you this for ages, because I was listening to you when Cameron was in power. Good Lord, that's a hoot. And on your show, there was a news announcement that he was going to do something to do with maybe making. Carrying donor cards. That's right. It was going to be a presumption that you did want to be a donor, rather than having to define that you did want to be a donor. Yeah. And I've been wondering ever since, and it's the first time I ever wrung mystery out and I got straight in there you see, there's a lesson for everybody, though. If at first you don't succeed, try and try again. But sometimes you will succeed at the first hurdle. Jane, I'll try and get you an answer. The potential lifespan of a human organ once it's been removed from the original host human. It's 1246 mystery Hour, with James O'Brien on LBC. Okay, we've got a bit of a challenge here. We've got to get. We got pro celebrity puns going on. On Mystery hour this week. I was not expecting this. First of all, Simon, in response, you've got to have been listening for the last 50 minutes to get this. All right. Simon suggests that the reason why the flask broke was because the milk was. Otter than the flask. Otter than. No. Well, that's the professional listener. Now it's time for the celebrity listener, Mister Chris Evans, who I believe works on hospital radio somewhere these days. I haven't kept up to date with the twists and turns of his career. I think he's just played an absolute blinder. So Chris Evans has gone for. Can you guess? Ray Lee Otter. Pick a winner. Andrew is in Derbyshire. Andrew, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on. Right, my question concerns music CDs and films on DVD. Really? A music CD and a DVD film. The disc are exactly the same dimensions. Yes. Yet the cases we buy them in are completely different. Well, I mean, they're different. They're not completely different. They're made of similar substances. Well, not completely. It's not like one's made of cheese and the other one's made of stone. Yeah. Different dimensions. They're different sizes. Yes, yes, completely different dimensions. A DVD case is completely different to a CD case. Why is that? So that you don't get your DVD's mixed up with your CDs, Andrew. Well, that's my answer, then. Thank you very much. Was that really it? Yeah, that's it. Okay. Something for everyone. Tony's in Sid cup. Tony, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Go on, mate. James. The only reason I notice is that it's the long John answer. It was, my father and I used to work on the docks and they used to wear the long Johns. Yeah. And my always used to call them John El's. Oh, yeah. And I used to say to my wife, why does your mum called Long Johns John Ells? She didn't know. So I looked it up and apparently they were named after a boxer back in, like, back in the 19th century somewhere. He was an heavyweight boxer. Oh, yeah. It was John. John L Sullivan. And. And that's what I used to call him, John El's. Because he was one of the first people to wear them publicly. Yeah. He actually wore them as that. That was his attire in the ring. It makes sense, doesn't it? I don't know. I remember looking out ages. What did all the other boxers are wear, then? Before. Before. I mean, they'd just be wearing shorts, would they? Maybe they went naked, James. I don't know. Showing a bit too much leg was not wrong. Victorian time. So he wore long Johns then he became so prominent is the first time people had seen them and lo and behold, so they became known. Long Johns. John l Sullivan's. And he would have been a big fellow, wouldn't he? He would have been heavy weight. Yeah. I think. I think you've done it, Tony. Maybe. I think you have. I think you've cracked it, John Ells, because John L is also that. I thought that was. I thought I was going to trip you out. Then your mother in law was reading the brand name for John Lewis. But then I thought, it's unlikely if your father in law was a docker. It's unlikely he was buying his undercrackers down at Peter Jones in Sloane Square, isn't it? Exactly. But he still wears them to this day. She always calls him. Has he got his John Ells on? And I always. She's a. Why does she call Long John's John Ells? And that was that. I looked it up years ago, so that's how I remember it. Love it. Round of applause for Tony. No, great work, mate. Great work. I've never had long johns. Never had long johns. Professor Martin is here. Professor Martin is a professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Question or answer, professor? It's an amplification. An answer to the flask thing. You're just trolling Hal now, aren't you? You're just trolling him. He's going to hate this. You suggesting Professor Hal missed something out? He's going to be pulling out what's left of his hair down in Brighton as we speak. Well, I'm sorry about that, professor. One thing that wasn't mentioned. Go on, then. And that is that the manufacturers make the glass as thin as they possibly can to avoid the conduction of heat away from the liquid you're trying to keep cool or keep hot. The other thing is because you've got vacuum on one side, or partial vacuum and atmospheric pressure on the underside, the glass is under tension, so it's a little bit like a balloon, and, you know, a tiny little pinprick, and a balloon shatters. It bursts it. So it's the combination of the tap of the spoon, the vacuum, and the glass being extremely thin. I'm just going to ask Axel something because he's been paying attention. Has Professor Martin Atkin. Don't be cowed by his intellect and his professorial qualifications, Axel, has he added anything to Professor Howe's answer? We don't think you've added anything to Professor Howe's answer. Well, I don't think they mentioned the fact that it was so extremely thin. I think everyone knew that. Well, that's the key. It's the three issues, the spoon, the vacuum, and the thickness. He mentioned the thinness of the cavity. I mean, he didn't use the word extremely, but it's a flipping flask. I mean, it's not if it's thin, it's thin in it. Well, it's not the cavity. It's the glass. Thin in it. Thinning in it. Thinin in in it. The glass is very thin in it. Yes. Yes. I'm gonna give you a round of applause, but more. And it's up to you whether you want it or not. I'm giving it you more out of charity than merit. Oh, okay. So do you want it or not? Because I wouldn't. I'd be too proud. I'd be too proud. But if you want a charity rather than merit, that's your lookout, professor. Okay. Round of applause for the professor. Diana is in Henley. Hello, Diana. Hello. Question or answer? I've got an answer for you on transplanted organs. Before you do that, have you ever seen an otter in the wild? No, not that I know of. All right, carry on. Sorry. Right. The transplanted organ would not be able to be retransplanted anymore because transplanted organs, a, they go through, through trauma when they're transplanted into the recipient, and also they tend to undergo sclerosis. So basically they have a limited life transplant. I mean, they used to say that. Have they ever used anything twice? I've not. I don't know that, but I doubt it. I doubt it. But hearts have got. Definitely got a limited life. And most, you know, the length of time kidneys and hearts last is usually maximum of about 30 years and usually a lot less than that. Qualifications? I'm the mother of a double transplant recipient and also a kidney donor. Oh, wow. Would it be inappropriate for me to raleigh o to you? Or would you become. Yes. No, because my daughter who's the transplant recipient is listening in the other room and she would love a Rayleigh otter moment. What is your daughter's name? Cecilia. Oh, Cecilia, you're breaking my heart. She's a buzzing journalist as well. Is she really? I think. Have I spoken to her before? I've spoken to you before, haven't I? Yes, I remember that now. But this is not for you, Diana. Although Cecilia is welcome to share a few crumbs with you. Should she? Should she so decide. This is for Cecilia. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. And they did. Double transplant recipient and Diana herself a kidney donor. And I suspect that if my daughter ever needed a transplant, I'd probably be a lot, a lot more assiduous in my determination to be a donor myself. 1257 is the time. What? Lovely moment. Darren's in Milton. Darren's in Milton Keynes. What's going on, Darren? Question. James Stewart's inquiry, my friend. Sharp. No, seriously, sorry to do it for you. You're a lovely guy, but let's not get carried away here. What have you got? Okay. CD and DVD cases. The reason the case is big on a DVD is very simple, because invariably there's. There's not only music, there's a film or something, there's audio and visual. On a DVD case? Yeah. Therefore you genuinely need a bigger case to put the writing, the blurb and the. On the case. Yes. Do you want the good news or the bad news? Hit me with a God. Go for it. The bad news is that you're completely wrong. The good news is, so am I. Okay. Okay. Why is that? Lloyd has done this and I'm going to include it because it's on Twitter in a shorter time. The reason why DVD's replaced the size that they are is because they replace VHS tapes. So the DVD cases replace VHS tape cases. And if you built them that size, then you wouldn't need to design new storage to store them. So you could chuck all your VHS tapes away and stick all your neat DVD's in exactly the same gap on your shelving unit or your storage solution that you had before for your vhs tapes. And that, my friend, is a drop the mic moment. It's not me, it's Lloyd Porter via Twitter. But I'll have his round of applause because he's not here to pick it up himself. Fair play, mate. Your stewards inquiry. My round of applause. What a time to be alive. Fake news and that's it for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Folgerton. I've seen an otter in the wild. Have you really? Yeah, the otter. Imagine at sand egg. Seriously. Taka ring of bright. Gavin. Constable Maxwell. I love the idea of all the people who hate me, who only turn on at 1259 to listen to you. And I just wonder. What the hell are you talking about? I've seen an alter in the wild. Thank you, Alan. It's great doing business with you. From three, the Coronation street actor Simon Gregson has spoken really honestly and movingly about the multiple miscarriages he and his wife have suffered over many years. Do we still vastly underestimate? Underestimate, I should say, the effect on men as well as women to why so many drivers doing a runner when they hit another vehicle. And after the news at one. If you saw the first episode of Hospital last night on BBC Two, a six part documentary series, you'll have seen just how stretched and pressurized NHS hospitals can be. There are powerful voices within healthcare, though, who say hospitals are the problem. They eat money, time and are bad for elderly patients in particular. Is it time to design an NHS that keeps us out of hospitals? Not in.