Where do gold nuggets come from?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. A little private conversation there that you may have stumbled upon us. No, you weren't. I was just contemplating that most of the contributors to our conversation about drugs legislation would have actually been under the age of ten when I first started having phone ins about drugs legislation on this radio station, and producer ludicrously tried to claim that she was only. I probably should stop talking about my age. I used to mention my age a lot on the show because I was quite young for this job and I thought it gave an added sort of sheen of interest to the notion that someone in his early thirties when I started was presenting a phone in show, a format in the british media that's normally reserved for elderly men possessed of pungent views. But now that I am elderly, or at least 46, I should probably stop mentioning because no one's going to go, wow, cute. He's only 46. Yeah, that may be the last time I ever mentioned my age. Anyway, it's time for mystery hour. If you don't know how it works, you're in for a treat. If you do know how it works, you're also in for a treat. But you knew that already, so I didn't feel I needed to point it out. It is the radio equivalent of those newspaper and magazine features wherein somebody writes to a newspaper or a magazine with a mystery. And by mystery, I just mean something you don't know the answer to, but which you know. There must be an answer. You could probably look it up, but you don't, because life's too short. Well, no, actually, that's the wrong explanation. Life's long enough not to. Education, illumination, knowledge, these are good things. So if you hear somebody ask a question to which you know the answer, you can ring in and, frankly, get a pat on the back, proverbially speaking, and a round of applause, literally speaking, for as a reward for your knowledge. That's why we do it. So if you hear someone ask a question, don't try and find out the answer by looking up. You can only ring in with the answer if you already know it. And I'll check by asking you how you know it, to which the answer can be as highfalutin or as lowfalutin as you like. So you could say, well, I happen to have, as it turns out, James, my PhD thesis was upon the relative attraction of bird tables to house starlings, and I published my thesis in 1947. Or you can say I saw it on the telly last night, James. I saw it on Mythbusters or some such, and it doesn't matter which. All I need is to believe you when you tell me what your qualifications are. Your question can be anything. Anything which involves an interrogative pronoun. A who, why, a what, a where, a when, a whither, or even the occasional whence or wherefore. Why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's all that about? I try to limit the number of derivation questions, partly because I really like them, and I worry that if I don't limit them, we'd never do anything else. Where does this phrase come from? Why does that word do what that word does? And I think that should pretty much cover it, actually. We'd just crack on. Shall we try not to be boring, although that is very much in the ear of the beholder. So if it's to do with motoring, it's almost certainly too boring for inclusion. But then, of course, questions nip through there are associated with motoring, but aren't actually about motoring, and they turn out to be very, very interesting. No one answered my question. I finally managed to remember a question. Of all the years of doing mystery hour, I come up with brilliant questions. On a Tuesday, I've completely forgotten them by Thursday. I finally come up with a question. Did people ever smoke in church? I'm putting that on there. I don't know why. I just. It occurred to me last time I was in church that if, you know, people used to smoke on planes and some massive addicts still smoke in the toilet, was church always smoke free? Or did they ever have little ashtrays on the end of the pews? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you've got a question, or if you can answer any of the questions that other people ask, should we crack on? Should we just do it? I think we should, don't you? Jones the engineer's in the house today for one week only. One month only, actually. But one week only sounds better. So the quality of banter and comedy coming out of my mouth should be higher than usual because of the quality of comedy and banter that Jones is whispering into my ear. Pressures on. How about is in Norbury? Question or answer? How about, good afternoon, James. A question? Please carry on. How are you? I'm very honored to ask the first question on this program. I'm sure you remember when we used to get drunk on the cheap by mixing beer and whiskey, for example. Why is it that when you mix two different alcoholic drinks. You get drunk quicker than just having the whiskey on its own or the beer on its own, for example. Are you sure this is true? Didn't you just drink it really quickly at that age? I don't know, but tried and tested many, many times. I don't know, though, because you're drinking to get drunk back then and you don't do that anymore now. Now you drink to savor the flavour. Yes, true. But even then, at the time, if you didn't mix it, you had to drink a bit more. Are you sure about this? I've tested it. Well, I know you have, but I'm going to put it on the board. But I think it's more of a is it true than a why is it, I think, do you get drunk quicker if you mix your drinks? And in answering that question, we'll get the explanation, if it's true, of why. But you might find out that it's not true and it's a sort of combination of urban myth and psychosomatic anecdote. So you thought you were getting drunk because you'd been persuaded from a very early age that mixing your drinks got. I mean, I used to believe that putting an aspirin in Coca Cola created some sort of intoxicating substance. Aspirin? Yeah. And also at my school, people tried smoking the inside of a banana skin once. So there are all sorts of things going on among the young people that aren't necessarily scientifically sound. Right, well, if we put it on the board. I'm on the board. I'm sure. Okay, it's on the board. Some scientists will. Some scientist or some complete drunk, or both. Someone drunk. What we need is a drunk scientist. A drunk site. Right, I see. How zero. 345-606-0973 have I. Great question. Did we get drunk quicker when we mix our drinks? And if so, why Finchley? Finchley is in Hamilton. Finchy. I was getting all confused. I genuinely did a double take, then I thought they'd got it the wrong way around. I thought, no, no, no. He's in Finchley and his name's Hamel Hempstead. That can't be right. Finchy. No, I used to live in Finchley as well. Finchy from Finchley. Why did you leave? Question or answer? It's a question, sir. Go on. Is it possible to cry? I mean, really sob without emitting any tears? Yes. Is it? Yeah. Because you can have problems with your tear duct. Okay. Right. But the reason I'm asking is because following the australian ball tampering, kind of crickets scandal. Recently at Stephen Smith's press conference, he was probably sobbing his ass out, but there's no tears coming from. Oh, I see. So you thought he was perhaps being insincere? Yes, possibly. I want to see if it's actually where that was actually possible. I think you can cry without crying or you can sob without tearing. And it doesn't have to be medical. Have you never done it? No, I've never cried. Well, in your whole life? Yeah, of course I have. All right. No, you might not have done. I was at school with a kid who'd only ever cried once when he stuck his scissors in the plug in the classroom and got thrown halfway across the room. The. The way I drop these anecdotes into the program is incredibly irritating. I imagine I'm going to stop doing that as well as what is mentioning my age. I like that. I'll bless you. So you've never. Because I think you must have done. You must have kind of got just like, the shoulders have gone and stuff like that, but no actual liquid has come out of your eyes? I don't think so. No. I mean, I do. I have a propensity for sobbing a bit and I'm always pretty, pretty sudden afterwards, so. Well, I do both. I've got two different responses. If I'm watching a movie or something like that, then tears will be streaming down my face, but I won't actually be sobbing, but when I'm properly sobbing. And I guess I probably haven't done that since my dad died. I don't know that tears do, actually. It's more of a. Than the. They're two different things, actually, now that you've come to mention it. I've never noticed that before. Okay. Well, they are for me, but I might be a freak of nature. Yes. I mean, if this is anecdotal, isn't it? Is there any. Is it worth putting up on the board? Yeah, of course it is. No, I like it. I like it. The tears and crying and sobbing and not crying. Zero. 345-606-0973 I like that, Finchy. And the reference to the australian cricket captain was cheeky, but I liked that, too. 1212 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Simon is in Rutland. Simon, question or answer a question, please. John. Carry on. Yeah. Where do nuggets of gold come from? As in, well, they're created in the middle of a giant exploding star, then the explosion of the supernova that gets sent everywhere. How do they collect together to be nuggets of gold? I mean, you could be asking about any metal, couldn't you? Yes, yes. I use gold because if I didn't, if I didn't ask a specific question, it's unlikely to scan or through to be a question. So this one through, you've thought this one through? What are you confused by that? Over the passage of millions of years, they've stuck together in little bit what makes these metals all collect together to make them all stand together again? So there should be. Theoretically. I think you're better at science than I am. But theoretically, you're wondering why there isn't just a more general spread of tiny, tiny particles of gold throughout the atmosphere. Exactly. Okay. Exactly. Okay. Yeah. No, and because an actual nugget does, when you think about it, it wouldn't have emerged, it wouldn't have landed. I don't know. I should stop talking. I'm only making myself sound stupid. How did. I thought you might rip me to it. I was toying with the idea until you went all supernova on me. And then I thought, oh, Simon knows his stuff, mate. Get back in your box and don't tease him. That's God's honest truth. So how does gold end up in nuggets? That's the explanation we want. Or any other precious metals. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I like that lot, actually. And they're all different sizes as well? Yes. Yeah, yeah. Something to do with sticking together. But then why don't they stick to other stuff? I should not, as I said, try to answer that, Simon. Lovely question. Three lovely questions, actually. Snake bite. A lot of people are pointing out does that. Why do you get drunk quicker when you mix your drinks? It's snake bite. We would definitely. Snake bite got you drunk quicker than drinking a pint of cider or a pint of lager, didn't it? I don't know. A lot of drugs and booze on the program today. 1214 is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Those are the three questions currently need answers. Why does mixing your drinks make you get drunk quicker? If. Brackets, if indeed it does, can you sob without any tears coming out of your eyes for non medical reasons? I'm pretty sure I can, which is an answer to the question, but we probably need a little bit more flesh on the bones. And how does gold end up in nuggets that is in danger of turning into one of my all time favorite questions. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien. From LBC. You're listening to mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, where we are seeking to solve mysteries, three of which are rather good this week. Let's get a few more on the board and then start cracking on with some answers. Alex is in horn church. Alex, question or answer? Well, before I start, I'm a bit disappointed. You said the Nuggets question was one of your favorite all time questions. No, I didn't. No, back in your box, pal. I said it. I said it might be turning into one as time passes. Okay. Okay. That's okay, then. Carry on. Right. My question is, if I was to get in my time machine, how far back in England or great Britain could I go where people would understand me? Of course, I'd speak in the queen's English and announce it everything properly, rather than my ethics tone. I've got at the moment, your estuarine twang. Actually, your estuarine twang might be more authentic than RP, I would have thought, actually. Okay. Because. So, I mean, I think the Romans played a bit in. I didn't listen a lot to history, but I believe the Romans played something with our language a long time ago. But essentially English is in English. Would I be able to go back, say, 1800 years and ask for a tomato without someone looking at me in a funny way? You wouldn't. No, they wouldn't know what a tomato was. I think that came over. That wouldn't. That wouldn't have come over until much later. But that's. We dig. I'm just thinking potato, potato. Now, that's Walter Raleigh, isn't it? So that's Elizabethan England. But let's not focus on the food that you're asking for, Alex. Let's focus on the language that you're using. Otherwise we could be here all day. So, in Chaucer, you'd probably get by in Chaucer. And. Have you ever come across any chaucerian English? All the time at work. I'm being serious, mate. Stop mocking, because I don't know. No, never? No, I didn't know. I haven't. And if I had been taught it at school, I wasn't listening. So the one I always. I'm just gonna. I'm not googling this because, um. I'm looking for the answer. I'm just googling this because I want you to hear some chaucerian language. It's an education, this show. You know that, don't you? So this is. This is old English. A knight there was. And that a worthy man that fro the time that he first began to ride an out. He loved chivalry, truth and honor, fraedom and courtesy. Full worthy was he in his Lordes Wir and thereto had he raiden no man Farre as well in Christendom as in Hethenace, and ever honoured for his worthiness. He was indeed from the west Country. Chaucer. Yes. A lot of people would have picked up on his bristolian heritage, so that. That. You could probably get by around then, couldn't you? Well, what years are we talking then? Sure, sir. Yeah. Well, I mean, you're looking at about the 14th. I don't know, mate. I'm gonna have to check that as well. I mean, why am I doing all the heavy lifting here? So a very. A very. He was a very parfit. Gentle knight is my favorite line from Chaucer, where parf. It means perfect. But we know what veray means and we know what gentle knight means. Yeah, I was right. 14th century. 1343 to 1400. Okay, what were they talking before? Tell you what, my mum. I hope my mum's listening, because I think. I think there are occasions where she wonders whether all the money they spent on my education might have been wasted. I just pulled that one out the bag, Mum. 14th century Geoffrey Chaucer. There you go. So you'd get by, then? That's post. I mean, it's pre roman, pre norman conquest would be the interesting bit because what language did King Alfred speak? Irish? Unlikely. But it might be. It might bear more than a passing resemblance to modern Welsh. This is a brilliant question, Alex. What the hell happened to you? Well, I'm glad I gave you another good question. Can I get a round of applause for my one? Don't be ridiculous. No, of course you can't. There's no special treatment here for former reality television stars. You'll be back, mate. It's just a matter of time. What's the question we're going to put? At what point would modern English have been comprehensible for the first, roughly, because I'm not going to put a date. It's not going to be like March 14, 1067, is it? So when did modern English, in its recognizable form, come into common parlance? Yeah, yeah, that sounds pretty good. Well done. No, well done, you. Thank you for the round of applause, but you're still not getting one. Sam's in. Brent. Sam, question or answer? How are we, James? Pretty good, actually. I'm enjoying the questions today. I just worry that they're too good. And none of them are going to get any answers. You're not the only one. It's another question for you. Please go on. I'm wondering what a male ballerina is called. A ballet dancer. Qualifications. I've never said it. I've never said this before, but I am actually quite good at ballet. Ah, you've got me padded pirouette. You gonna put it on the board? Well, yeah, I am, actually, because. You mean gender specific? Because a ballerina is a ballet dancer. You've got actors and actresses and waiters and waitresses. You've got ballerinas and ballerinos or. I like ballerino. But I think if it was a word, we'd know by now. Ballerino. That's a male ballet dancer. They called her ballet ban. Yeah. All right, you're on. I like it, Sam. Well done. You got it. Male ballerina or a male ballet dancer. Is there a name that is, you know, gender specific. A gender specific name for a male ballet dancer? Good work. So we've got nuggets, we got English, we've got sobbing and crying, we got mixing your drinks. We ain't got no answers. We will start with the answers probably after half past. Marty is in Belfast. Okay, I'm picking up a lot of listeners in Northern Ireland. I hope they've all got Rajar diaries. Marty, question or answer? That's another question, James. Carry on. Mars. And it's to do with clouds, is it? Why are clouds different colors? You get dark gray, rainy clouds or you get big, white, fluffy ones where it never rains. Well, it's thick. You've answered your own question, I think, Marty. It's the thickness, how much light they admit. So the thicker they are, the less light they'll admit. And that means they're rainy, grey clouds. And if they're thin and wispy, there's lots of light coming through them and they look thin and wispy. You can have smallish clouds in the sky that are dark gray and you get a bit of a spit coming down. Yeah, that fits. I mean, it's all about. It's got to be about light, hasn't it? There can't be any other answer, right? I have no idea if that's right. Whatever your education cost, it was worth every penny. Cheaper. Half the price. Why are clouds different colors? I'm going to leave that on the board. I've already patted myself on the back for the Jeffrey Chaucer. Nice one. It's 1225. So let's have a quick read. Why does mixing your drinks get you drunk quicker? If indeed it does. We're all working on the presumption that it does, largely because of what is known in scientific circles as the snake bite conundrum. Can you sob without tears coming out of your eyes? And I think you can, because I think that I do. But I'd love to know the biology. How does gold end up in nuggets? Zero 345-606-0973 when would the English we speak today have become comprehensible in the olden days. So roughly, when does English now? And I've got as far back as the 14th century, Berwolf would probably be harder, but that was. I think that was more danish, wasn't it, than English? You get the question. Is there a gender specific name for a male ballet dancer in the way that female ballet dancers are, of course, called ballerinas? And why are clouds different colors? Liz is in Mitcham. Liz, question or answer? Hi, James. Question, please. Hello, Liz. Why does it say new caller on the board? I am a new caller, but most of my callers are new. Why have they. Why have they gone to the trouble of writing it on the board? The pressure's on now, Liz. Finally you've got through. Yes. Yeah. I've got a cousin in Gravesend and I'm quite intrigued by the weather reports. Often the weathermen say, like, Gravesend in Kent is the hottest place in the country. Yeah. Why is it such a hot spot? Do they often say Gravesend is the hottest place in the country? Yeah, sometimes on the weather they say, no, I think I know what's happened here. I think possibly because your cousin lives there. You notice when Gravesend is mentioned in a way that you don't notice when towns that you don't have a cousin in gets mentioned. So how many times have you heard Kidderminster being mentioned as the hottest place in the country? That's what you think, because you don't have any little mental triggers when Kidderminster is mentioned, whereas I do. But I can't actually remember Kiddeminster ever being the hottest place in the country either, because there's some confusion. What the question is, are you asking why weather presenters mentioned Gravesend so much? Yes, that's. That's correct. Yeah. But is it always because it's so hot that grave? I mean, do they ever say Gravesend is the coldest place in the country? Yeah, they say both extremes. So they say it's either. Well, I don't know. I imagine there's a. There's a weather center there, then. But how they could conclude, actually. Problem is, I don't know that you're right that Gravesend gets more mentions than other towns in the weather report. Hands up. If anyone's noticed Gravesend getting mentioned more in the weather forecast and other towns not seeing any hands, Liz. So it might in my. No, I know. Well, yeah, I couldn't see you, but it might just be you noticing it because your cousin's there. But it could be that you've noticed it because you noticed it and it is true. So I put it on the board. Why does Gravesend pop up in the weather report so much? That's the question, is it? Yes, that's the one. You're on. Love it. Thank you, Liz. What a great debut. Sparkling. Why did we put a new caller on the board like that? Mystery. There's a mystery. It's mystery hour. Is it? Because. Have you never done mystery hour before? Whoa. How are you finding it? Yeah, cool. Might not be working at home. That little exchange. Richard's inactant. Richard, question or answer? Answer. Very answer. Right. English. Yes, I can read the King James Bible with virtually no problem at all. Yes. Originally written 80% of it by William Tyndall 100 years earlier. Yes, we can understand William Tyndall, Shakespeare, Spencer, etcetera, etcetera. Yeah, but we're 16th century now. Yes, we are now going back. Chaucer. I can read with difficulty. Same here. Even though I don't have a level English. If I had a level English, I'd be able to read him. Okay. Not necessarily, but, yes, carry on. In broadly general terms. Yes. So that's 14th. We're back to the 14th century now, 1343, when he was born. And that's, of course, round about the time of Julian of Norwich, Marjorie Kemp, people of that ilk, writing in a similar argo, they're beginning to write in English as opposed to Latin or Norman French now, but that's the language of the landed classes. And then I think 1362, the lady who was speaking to me, that she had the shiny red voice, insisted I put a date. You must. Yes. Right, well, I will. It'll be open to a steward's inquiry. I would put 1362, because I think that's the first time the parliament in England met and spoke in a disgusting, vulgar language called English. Yeah, but the plebs were talking in English before that. They were talking in English. And Alex is a pleb. I'm telling you now, I know the bloke further back and then a massive peasant language did Alfred the great speak? The answer would have been Anglo Saxon. And what would that have sounded like? A cross between German and Danish. Yeah. It's. So. It's because the Saxons are a Germanic. So what language was being spoken by people what lived here before the Vikings arrived? Before the Vikings, ordinary people would have spoken either Anglo Saxon or what we would today call Welsh. Yeah. If you lived in the west, because there is a division down the center of the country. There is. Where the Saxons were halted after the battle of Mount Baden, round about the eight year ad 500. Yes, indeed. This is King Arthur and all that stuff. To the west of that line, they would spoke predominantly Welsh, which is, or what we would call Welsh, more akin to Celtic. And that's what the Romans would have heard when they came over here speaking Latin. What would the Iceni have spoken then? They would have. They would have spoken a dialect of Celtic, would they? Yeah. So 1362 isn't going to work. It's a formal academic guess based upon the parliamentary employment of what. What evolved into modern English. But the plebs must have been speaking that in the fields even a hundred years previously. So I love pointing out when I debate this with people, did you know that between 1066 and about 1400, England. England was ruled by Frenchmen? A good a level history question would be, who was the first english king of England? Ethelred. No, no, no. What, you mean post 1066? Oh, crikey. Now, that's a very interesting one, because it could. You could say Henry VII, but Henry VIII, I mean, there's a. There's that wonderful line in Henry V. We're two and a half minutes late for the news. Oh, that's okay. This is more intelligent than. Unfortunately, there is quite a lot of news going on, but I do. What are your qualifications? Renaissance man, enemy of the people. I'll give him a round of applause. I'm going. I'm gonna broadly say 13th century, Richard. Yeah, yeah. For modern English, 13th century, you could probably order a kebab. You'd need Greek for that. And that would go back to the Romans. Souvlaki. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Lots of questions to get through and probably room for a couple more questions as well. 1236. Let me crack on. Professor Hal is here. Professor Hal is the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and something of a mystery hour. Stalwart. I'm going to say that you are here for either the gold nuggets question or the alcohol question. You'd be right on the second count. I'm here for the alcohol question. Excellent. Why does mixing our. Or first of all, does mixing our drinks increase our intoxication speed? Yes. Why? Allow me to explain. So, unusually, alcohol is absorbed in your stomach. Most things are absorbed in the small intestine, which is why, if you have a drink, you can normally feel the effects within a few seconds. Very strong drinks, whiskey or vodka, they've got such a high ethanol concentration, they actually inhibit their own uptake. So you can have a big glass of whiskey and actually, surprisingly, you won't feel intoxicated very quickly. And weak alcohol solutions don't. So therefore, if you mix 40% whiskey with, say, 4% beer, what you get is a resultant solution of maybe about 15% to 20%, which is the optimum level to get you drunk. So if you want to get drunk quickly, port or sherry are the best things to do. And there's a story about norwegian or scandinavian teenagers, what they do when they go out clubbing. Because alcohol is so expensive, they drink a load of spirits when they're at home first, then they just drink water when they go out clubbing, which is cheaper, and they get drunk slowly because of that. And they dilute the alcohol in their stomach. And, yeah, it starts to be uptaking, that sort of burning sensation when you chug some whiskey, that burning sensation in your mouth. Imagine that in your stomach. The stomach cells say, oh, my goodness, I can't deal with this. They stop, they stop absorbing. And only when you sort of dilute it with some water or some beer, ipso facto, mixing your drinks does the concentration of alcohol drop to a point where it starts being absorbed again. What a great answer. What about snake bite? What's that against cider and cider and lager, isn't it? Yeah. I think cider and lager are roughly in parity with their alcohol, so I think maybe that's sort of psychosomatic, in the same way that drinking at lunchtime making you feel more drowsy. And if you drink in the evening, again, it's a myth. It's because you've got to go back to work when you've drunk at lunchtime or you're not just lying on the sofa watching the repeats of match of the day. Exactly. It's expectation rather than anything else. Cider is often stronger than lager, so maybe it is just that the cider addition to people who normally drink lager makes them get a little bit drunk quicker. Yes, if you drink cider at say eight to 10% plus lager. At 4%, you get a resultant solution of 6%. So it's just stronger anyway. It's stronger than the lager, but weaker than the cider. If you're used to drinking lager, get drunk. Equipper. I would have thought so. Did you know that Bill Clinton was refused a pint of snakebite when he was visiting? I don't know why. I just. It's in a. Filed away in my little mind somewhere. But when he was in this country, he asked for a pint of snake bite and a publican told him erroneously, I think, that they weren't allowed to serve. I must have got that wrong. I must have been. Anyway, I digress. Would you like a round of applause or have you had too many for it to matter anymore? No. Each one is more valuable than the last, so please bring it on. It is. Thank you. Professor Howe. Time for Lee in Banstead. Lee, question or answer? Hey, James. Question. Go on, mate. Balloons. Why do we use balloons to celebrate with? I can't get around. I can't get my head around that. Well. What? They just float there, don't they? Well, yeah, but they're fun. Yeah, no, they are fun, but what. Where's the. You know, what's the reason? I mean, is that a question? Is that a proper question? Why do we use the balloons? To celebrate? Yeah. What else are we going to use them for? Balloons? Yeah, balloons. When the balloons come in to be. I mean, someone invented them and tried to find a way to flog them and party. Seemed quite a good. I don't actually know balloons. Someone's made a good living out of it. I don't know how much money there is in balloons, to be honest with you. Have you ever bought a canister? Have you got any kids? I haven't got any kids, no. I've got a load of nieces and nephews, so. Well, next time, get yourself down a party shop. You can buy a little canister of helium and you can do your own helium balloons. They'll love it, mate. You'll be uncle of the year. Yeah. Good shout. It is a good show. It's not. You won't get much change out of 50 notes, I don't think. But it's worth having to think about it. I like this question. I didn't like it to start with, but it's basically just our bladders, maybe. Bladders? Well, I've heard that that's where the pigs bladders used from, isn't it? Yeah, that's unlikely to be. No one's ever looked at a pig's bladder and thought, well, that's really put me in the mood for a party. No, no. Why balloons? So, really, this question is bigger than we realized when you first came on. It's why. Why the balloons exist. What are balloons? A real realist question. It's existential now, mate. Thanks, mate. Hey, welcome. I love that question. 1241 is the time. Balloons, ballerinas, graves end, clouds, nuggets. You noticing what I'm noticing? A little bit short on answers. Come on, dudes and dudettes. Steve is in Hastings. Question or answer, Steve? It's an answer as you're short of them. Go on, then. Ballerina. Oh, yes, the male equivalent. A male ballerina is a ballerino. Sharp. Seriously? It was a term which was first used in Italy, but it was dropped because the ballerino was deemed to be the star. And ballerinas didn't like the fact that they didn't have their name. So the ballerino was dropped and unfortunately, the ballerinas kicked in. Then ballerina stuck qualifications. My son did about a year's training to be a ballet dancer and said to the teacher, why are they ballerinas and I'm only a male ballet dancer? Yeah. And she came up with the answer. I love that. And it's earned you a round of applause. That'll do. Not. Well, I mean, bearing. We're presuming that his ballet teacher was an etymologist as well as a ballet teacher. Well, there you go. But I'm happy. And I interrupted your round of applause. My apologies. Have a clean one. Thanks very much, Dave. No, you're very welcome. He ruined that one, not me. Dave is in Hammersmith. Dave. Questioner. Answer. Answer, mate. Come on, then. Gold nuggets. How does gold end up in nuggets? Okay, well, originally, gold is formed in veins, usually quartz veins, and it occurs in the veins in thin flakes. Now, the larger thin flakes, as they're erode out of the quartz vein, they don't dissolve water, but they get washed down the river with the quartz. Now, the quartz breaks up into sand. But what happens with a gold is because it's soft and malleable, instead of breaking up, it rolls itself up into a ball. So the longer. So it's like foil. It's like flakes of foil that get squished. That's exactly it. So, and then they get deposited in the stream beds, usually on river bends, where they settle out, and that's where you find them. That's where you pan for gold, and that's where you extract gold if you see it on tv, where they're digging up huge tracts of Canada and Alaska and basically sieving out the gold nuggets. And this will apply to other deposits in other kind of geological. Well, gold, particularly because it's because of its very soft nature and because it doesn't dissolve in water or anything else. This is a beautiful answer. One of my all time favorites. I said this was shaping up to be a brilliant question, didn't I? What are your qualifications, Dave? I used to be a mining geologist before I retired. Oh. How many mining geologists would there be in Britain at any one time, roughly? Oh, there's quite a lot, actually. There used to be about four or five universities used to churn them out. There are only a couple now. Camborne Royal School of Mines. It's more moved abroad now, you know, to Australia and because there's no blooming mining left in this country, is there? It's coming back. Is it? It's coming back. Someone's opened a tin mining. Gold mining. Oh, where? Scotland, Northern Ireland. Really? Yeah. Do you have, like, a little black book of secret places where we could find gold? Well, you can take a pan and go up into Scotland or in Wales. They'll tell you where it is. You. All you need to do. And a lot of. A lot of back breaking work. I have a thing, Dave, I don't know how often you listen to the program, but I have a special honor that I award to people who ring in with anonyx, with an exceptional level of qualification or experience for the subject that they're contributing to. And when I asked you how many mining geologists there were out there, if you said all very few, James, it's just me and my friend John. I probably would have given you that award. I'm tempted to give it to you anyway because you sound like such a top chapter. Well, there are not many of them. Not many my age. That's better. That's it. Now, come on, keep it up. Let's keep. Keep going. I mean, how many left, roughly? About eight. No, no, they're a lot. Lot. Oh, come on, Dave. You just can't do it. He's got. This is integrity. Young people listening. This is what integrity sounds like. Give him one. Give him one. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come partly in recognition of the quality of the question as well, which I was poised to tell Simon in Rutland. Was a load of old rubbish. Amazing how often my initial reaction to something being a load of old rubbish turns out to be utterly misplaced. Please God, we end up filing brexit under that category. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I'm glad everyone approved of the decision to give Dave a rayliotta. I thought it was borderline. But you didn't. You thought he fully deserved it. As Adam points out, he was just too modest for his own good. Right, if you can answer any of these questions, chances are that you'll get on air before 01:00. Actually, there's not quite as many left as I thought there was. Scratch all that, we're fine. Let's squeeze in another question. Dom's in Durham. Dom, question or answer? Question. Thanks, James. Carry on, Dom. My question is on coins, the queen faces to the right, but when I said, when I've looked at older coins, I found a jar of old coins in the shed. The monarch is facing to the left. And then I thought, perhaps it's because she's a woman. But then I found a victorian penny and she's facing to the left as well. So does anyone know? I thought. I didn't. We do. Isn't it just her personal preference or something like that? I don't know. Because on stamps she faces the left. She does. And on coins she faces the right. Yeah. Are you sure you're old coins? We're all facing the other way. Well, the ones I found. Yeah. So you found an Edward. Edwardian. You've got an Edward VIII coin there. You've got nothing earlier than Edward VIII, have you? In front of me. But I had a victorian one that would have been facing to the right. And that's facing. No, she's facing left. Shut up. No way. Because I thought it was because she was a woman. That would be the reason why. But she's pretty much. I don't believe you on the victorian one. Have you got it with you? No, I haven't. I think I know. I think that Queen Victoria faced to the same way as the current. Is that right? I think. I think Edward VIII is the anomaly, not our queen. Is that right? I don't know, mate. I'm just dragging up stuff from the very dark recesses of my memory. Throwing stuff out there. Yeah, it just seems a bit. Well, let's do it that way. Right. Which. Yeah. Why does the queen face. Right, yeah, okay, that's fair enough. Yeah. Given that her dad, faced or not, that was, well, Edward the 8th face left. Yeah. Not her. Dad. You're on. No. Okay, we'll see. Zero. 345-606-0973 I like that question. Have you taken it to anti? Found a jar of coins in the shed. There could be some really valuable stuff in there. Alistair's in Orpington. Alice, the question or answer. Hi, James. Hello, Alice. Oh, marvelous. What's it going to be? Okay. Clouds themselves don't glow. So clouds only have color from reflected light. Dark grey clouds. There's not much light around. They're covering a lot of the sky or they're very low down or they're behind hills or something like that. So it's all about the light in the evening when the light goes through a lot of atmosphere and it's reddish, you get pink clouds. You do. Pink light reflecting off them. Yeah. One other thing. Last year, towards the end of last year, we actually had some funny orangey green clouds and that was caused, if you remember at the time, by very fine dust from, I think, the Sahara. The light was reflecting off this. They looked orangey green. They did. So when you have two clouds in more or less the same bit of sky that are different colors, what's that about? Either they're picking up different lights. Like for example, you get a sunbeam coming through a hole in the cloud. The cloud. The color. The color of the clouds around the edge of the sunbeam is brilliant white. You know, every cloud has a silver lining. So it's nothing to do with the thickness of the water content? It has a lot to do with the thickness of it and the water content, but that will affect the light shining on it. Got you. So, yes, I understand. So that's like the canvas. Yeah. And the light is like the paint. Yeah. That was quite poetic, wasn't it? Sounded good. Qualifications? A long time back, did a PhD on clouds and rainfall. How many people do you think have done phds on clouds and rainfall over the years recently? Not that many. Go on then. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Good work, Alistair. Very good work indeed. Two for two today and I think both quite richly deserved. 1253. Theo is in the oval. Theo, question or answer? It's an answer about Gravesend. Go on. Why does Gravesend apparently feature more in the. In the weather forecast? So Gravesend will actually probably be the hottest place in the UK quite regularly. My family homes near Benson, which is often the coldest place in the UK. Oh, really? My dad used to work at the Met Office and there's a bit of a weather enthusiast, shall we say? So, me and my brother. I think it was my brother actually asked why? And it's because Benson's in a frost hollow and the sandy soil which heats up and cools down very quickly. Yes, the graved end also has very sandy soil, so when the sun's out, the whole area heats up very quickly. So it does get hotter than other places, then it will certainly have a far better chance of being the hottest place in the UK than kidderminster, unfortunately. Well, it depends on your definition of hot. You're speaking about temperatures. This is very true. That's a lovely question. And the qualifications are your father's meteorology and your own geographical origins. Pass the knowledge down, you cut that, eh? Perfect mystery, perfect vintage. Just four minutes left for Mike in Totteridge to mess it all up. My question or answer, Mike? Answer to the coins. Oh, yes. It's a tradition over hundreds and hundreds of years that all turn up. Monarchs changed their monarch, they changed their profile. It's been hundreds and hundreds of years. The only one who broke the mold was Edward the 8th, because he didn't like his left profile, so he went on for his right. So it goes left, right, left right, left right, left right, left, right. And Edward VIII should not really have. I mean, I don't know why I'd got him stuck in my mind, but on coins, I knew he was never crowned. He was never crowned. But they did. They knocked out some experimental coinage before he got the crown on his bonds. Right, yeah, he broke the mold. He. He had the same side as George the fifth, his father, because of vanity. Vanity, honestly, should have been an. It should have been a clue then about the mess he was going to make of the whole bloomin institution. Shouldn't there, Michael? You. And nowadays, Charles got away with it. With Camilla, he would have got away with it. Well, I don't know. Yeah, yeah, you're right, actually. Strange. Head to toe Tempuso. Morris. Um, you are in. Was it called a newsmax? What's a new what? A numismatist coin collect. And that is your qualification, is your numismatism? Yes, that's right. Round of applause for Mike the numismatist. Thank you. Thank you. It's a lovely word that Andrew's in Romford. Question or answer, Andrew? Yes, carry on, Andrew. It's the answer to the balloons. Ah. I believe that balloons first came in fashion with jesters way back in the dark ages. They were there for amusement. And one of their tricks was to walk around with an inflated pig splatter on the end of a stick. And it used to dance about funny shoes on it, go around tapping people on the head and all that. But that is my theory of the original origin of balloons. What are your qualifications? I study history. I read a lot about history. Yeah. And I've seen many depictions of it. And that's the pig splatter that I immediately reached for and then dismissed. I was wrong to dismiss. They do have their origins with pig splatters. You certainly were. So what it is, is, from a jester's point of view, something you could hit someone quite hard with without hurting them, which fits into a jester's modus operandi almost perfectly. It was an amusing thing. And he used to like being amused. I know. Well, also, I mean, as the role of the jester evolved in the context of monarchies and very powerful people, the fool, as we saw in King Lear, would be the only person in court allowed to tease or mock the monarch. That is correct. As a way of sort of keeping their humanity in. I've seen very, very old historic plates of jesters with an inflated ladder on the end of a stick. Yeah, you're on. I love it. And that would just becomes associated with fun and frolics and then latex comes along. A lot of fun to be had with latex, Sheila Fogarty tells me. And then it becomes part. See, you're my court jester. The only one allowed to mock the monarch. I am. Round of applause for Andrew. Quickly screaming, one more. Sean's in Seven Oaks. Sean, question or answer? It's an answer. Stewart's inquiry, I believe. What? Go on. A couple of weeks ago, someone asked a question about what are the bubbles in boiling water? And I was absolutely appalled to hear that. We got a round of applause for saying there were bubbles of oxygen. Actually, when you boil water, they're bubbles of steam. Yeah. You don't split the water up. No, I know, mate. I don't know how that happened. I don't know how that happened. It was disgraceful. It was disgraceful. It was disgraceful. Should I give you Ofcom's number? Would you like to report us to the broadcasting regulator? No, I don't think I'll bother. I think I'll just say thank you for your show. I enjoy listening to it most of the time. I really enjoy. But sometimes some of the answers just. Well, they offend your academic sensibilities. That's indeed. That is exactly. I can feel it from here. Your academic sensibilities occasionally are shriveling in shock at some of the nonsense that give them a round of applause. Now, does that make amends, Sean? It makes perfect amends. And yes, thank you very much, James. Great show. Good man. Bless you. Thank you. And that's it for another day. Here is Sheila Fogarty, the latex. No, leave it. No, leave it. Definitely. Thank you very much indeed, James. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.