Pub names: why must they contain a limb?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It's three minutes after twelve. I forgot this mystery app temporarily. I was limbering up for a continued conversation about Harry and Meghan because I find it fascinating. Thank you for raising the quality to such a high level. I suspect that will persist with Sheila Fogarty throughout the afternoon, and we may even return to the topic in the coming days or weeks, not least when we find out a little bit more about what their plan are. But I, for one, wish them luck and indeed, a little bit of love. Right, time for the madness to commence. Mystery hour is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial, or indeed, within or without the royal family. If you have a question that needs an answer, it's quite possible that, in the words of the late, great George Michael, I'm your man. All you need to do to find out is dialo 345-606-0973 with a who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whither or yep, you guessed it. Even the occasional wherefore. And that's it, really. I mean, I appreciate we've got lots of new listeners at the moment. Long may that trend continue. But equally, I can't inflict a lengthy explanation of how this works on you. Every week it gets filed under succut and c. It's busy, the phone lines are busy. The responsibility for that is it's multifarious. Jordan's not happy about it and I understand that. Jordan? He says, I never seem to get through these days. I don't know why. I've got a question, he says, I can't take questions via text. And I guess it's just even busier than it used to be. But when I say the number out loud on this program, at any point, not just during mystery hour, then there are almost always phone lines free. Very occasionally there aren't. And I just say it as a form of verbal punctuation. Oral. Oral punctuation. So it's a bit like, as Chris Moores pointed out just before Christmas, it's a bit like when I say five minutes after twelve is the time, or I don't even know I'm doing it. It's like a verbal tick that you do. I give out the phone number, you know, because it's like pausing or breathing. But 90% of the time when I give out the phone number zero 345-606-0973 it's because there are phone lines free into the building. All right. And you also need one, of course, if you have an answer to a question that somebody else poses on the program, I think that'll do. No repetition. We don't like too many questions about the origins of phrases. We try and limit ourselves to one a week. So if it's. Where does that phrase come from? What's the origin of that, then? I don't know why we limit it to one a week. I think it's because if we don't, then it dominates proceedings completely. But otherwise it's very fluid and relaxed. So just enjoy. Let's start in Birmingham. Claire, is there. Claire, question or answer? Can I have a question, please, James? Of course you can. Great. I am. I never tell anyone what I vote, ever. I'm absolutely obsessed with the secrecy of the ballot paper and. But I was wondering, what are you so embarrassed? What are you so embarrassed about? Oh, absolutely nothing change. Oh, good. Carry on. I always get it right every time. No. If I was in court and I was asked under oath, would I have to answer that? No. Really? Well, you could lie, but no, because I'm under oath and I'm very truthful, James. But do you believe in eternal damnation? Not really. Well, then you're safe. Just lie, you know. But I'm moral. Well, I'm moral as well. But the question is, can I. Can I. I mean, so could a court order you to reveal how you voted? I can't lie in court, James. That doesn't stick with me. I don't know if I could either. Well, it depends on. Depends on how serious it is. But the point is, of course, that you can't be compelled to reveal how you voted, because there'd be no way of establishing whether you were telling the truth or not. So the only. No, that's true. The only arbiter of this question would be your conscience. Be my morals. Yeah. So you can't ask me to answer. Only you can answer this question, Claire. So I will ask you, if you were ordered in court to reveal how you voted at the last election, would you, on your oath, would you reveal it? Couldn't. I refuse to answer. Yes, that's my question. Would you? I just say I'm not answering that. Of course you could, but I like it. I like these philosophical exercises, but it's not quite as juicy as we thought it was when we started looking at it. For that very simple reason that I have no way of establishing whether you're telling the truth or not. So the only measure on this. The only scale against which you measure yourself is your own conscience. So would you be able to lie in court? Probably not. Would you be able to refuse to answer? I think that's up to the judge. But the judge has no way of knowing whether the answer you give is true or not, so it is literally a question of conscience. So I would totally get away with that in court. I could just say, no, I'm not answering. No. I don't know that bit. No. You could be found in contempt, you could be sent to jail for refusing to answer a question. I can't think of circumstances in which this would be germane to legal proceedings. But we're already in fairly theoretical territory. I still don't. I don't really feel like I've got an answer. So if I was in court and I don't want to tell the truth. Yeah, but I can't lie. No, but the question you asked was about how you vote. Yeah, that's the point. So could a judge order you to answer the question? Your conscience would demand that you answered it honestly so we can park that. The question then becomes, could a judge order me to answer the question? I think probably yes, but I'm not going to take a round of applause for that. The point we've had to unpick it, because a judge can't make you tell the truth. That's up to you whether you're under oath or not. But can a judge order you to answer the question? Is a slightly different question. It's not as juicy as what we started with, but it's the only one we can get a proper answer to. Doesn't override it. No. No, because that's. The conscience is up to you. But I don't think a judge would be able to order you to reveal the contents of a secret ballot. But there might be a legal genius out there who can conjure up a case study or an example in which there would. So I'm going to leave that on the board. Do you know, I was about to give myself my first round of applause of the hour not of the decade. This is the second mystery hour since 2020 commenced. But I like. So can a judge order a witness or even an accused to reveal how they voted in a secret ballot? I don't know who'd be qualified to answer that, but I hope someone listening is zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you want to grab the phone line that Claire is just vacating. Michael is in Plymouth. Question or answer Michael, I have a question, please. James, carry on. Okay, so, unfortunately, it's in keeping with the royal theme today, but it's not, unfortunately. I like it. Unfortunately. I've always wondered why pubs and drinking establishments are always named after royal figures. Not always, but often. Sorry. Yeah, traditionally, and I would say that also, why are they named after the limbs of those royal figures? It's the same answer. It's the same answer to any question about pub nomenclature. And it's to do with pictograms. You need to go back to an era where literacy was rare and pubs were popular. How would you know that you were going to the duke's head if you couldn't read the words duke's head? Oh, look, there's a picture of a duke's head. Yeah, but why would it be called the duke's head? Because it would be something that was instantly recognizable to huge numbers of potential customers. Okay, what about the queen's arms? Yeah, again, the queen's arms would be a coat of arms, not a limb. And it would be something that most people recognize because it was in common currency. You know, went to war under it. So the queen's arms is a pick. The answer is pictograms, Michael. I mean, it's not open to debate. So it's more about the picture. It's all about. It's all about. It's all about the red lion. Well, I hate to bring up a fictional establishment, but the Nag's head. Well, again, a picture of a horse's head. Yeah. I mean, it is the odds. It's one of my favorite things, actually, because he teaches us two things. Number one, how widespread illiteracy was until relatively recently. And number two, how popular pubs have always been. Yeah, I agree. And actually, it does make you remember it. I think you know the king. Yeah, I'm reading another book set in. This one's about the slave trade, actually, I've only just started it, so I can't recommend it yet because I don't know if it's going to carry on being as brilliant as it currently is. But pubs, I mean, huge, particularly in this is set in Plymouth. So, you know, the naval communities, the pubs, none of them could read or write, so how are they going to know which pub to meet in? Answer the picture above the door. Very true. Nice one, isn't it? It's a nice answer. It's really obvious when it's explained to you, because someone explained it to me once on this, I think, on mystery hour. And there it is. It's really easy. And every obvious pub name you can think of lends itself to the explanation as the years have passed. So the Fauconberg arms is a hostelry I used to frequent in North Yorkshire. And you might say, well, who the hell knows the coat of arms of the Faulkenberg family? But, of course, the other point we need to bear in mind is that we weren't a very mobile population, so the only pubs in your orbit would be pubs you could walk to. And if you could walk to a pub in the Falkenbergs territory, then you'd know what their coat of arms was, because they probably owned your house. Hence the Falkenberg arms. Hence the Falkenberg arms. Perfect. Nice work, Michael. Round of applause for me. Gareth's in Wigan. Question or answer? It's the question, James. Carry on, Gareth. Okay. Spider spins a web. Yep. Spider waits a flag to come along. Yes. Will. Will a spider ever give up on a web as a bad thing or will it wait and wait and wait? You mean having conducted it, you haven't constructed it? Constructed it? Yeah. This is a. This is a good web. I'm now going to catch a fly. How will they ever give up on that as a bad idea, as a bad web and move to, you know, move somewhere else and build another one, but not because it's blown away or because someone's lobbed a brick at it or because another spider's nicked it, but because it's not fit for purpose. I love this question. Yeah, yeah. It's. I live in a house that's. The spider webs everywhere. Spiders everywhere. And I thought, will the spider ever just stop waiting and go somewhere else or will it just eventually. I love it. So I've spun a web, lads. How long? How long? How long do I give it before I decide whether I need to spin another one? Says a spider to another spider. Yeah. So does it ever give up on a web as just a bad web? I have a bin at the bottom of the garden. We used to keep the chicken feeding when we had chickens. We haven't had chickens for years and years and years. And I left the lid on it and didn't open it because it was just one of those jobs that, frankly, misses O'Brien hadn't noticed that I hadn't done it. So I thought, jobs are good and I'll keep quiet about that. And then I thought, I better do this. And it was. I mean, it was like Miss Havisham's wedding cake. There was so much spot and I don't know, because the sealed. The lid was sealed, so I don't know quite. They're never going to catch a fly in. You're never going to catch a fly in there because the lid's on and it's a metal bin. But they carried on spinning. So I don't know if that is a beginning of an answer to your question, but it's an interesting aside nonetheless. Yeah, just. Just one of those daft things I thought about. Let's find out for Gareth. Does a spider ever give up on a web as a bad lot? Not because it's been damaged or stolen by a bigger spider, but simply because he ain't catching any flies? LBC mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour continues. What would we have with, well, questions currently on the board? I'm just so distracted by that spider question. I think it's an absolute peach. Does a spider ever give up on web because he hasn't caught any flies? And if so, how long does it take? And anyway, who would be able to answer that question anyway? And can a judge order a wit? Can a judge order anyone to reveal how they voted in a secret ballot? Which might seem like an odd question, but because there's no compulsion to answer honestly except your own conscience or perhaps your religious beliefs. But I still love the question. Spiders and judges secret votes zero 345-606-0973 if you can answer either of those pub pictograms. What was the last one? Have we missed anything out? Have we got all the questions on the board? Is anyone else paying attention? It's all good. Sam's in Exeter. Sam, question or answer? Hello, James. Got an answer for you. I don't know what? Phone lines gone a bit south, but we'll do our best because, mister, I don't need to be with you for as long as I do on other topics. What's the answer? So I don't know whether or not a judge can order you to tell them whether or not they. How you voted in a secret ballot, but they could find out. So they have each. Each ballot paper has a unique identification number on there. Yeah. Which is recorded against your name when you collect your ballot paper at the bottom. Oh, I see what you mean. So you're picking a hole in my suggestion that the judge wouldn't be able to find out whether you were telling the truth or not by suggesting that they could go through. They could go through tens of millions of spent voting slips and look for the serial number. Not going to get a round of applause for that, mate, I'm afraid, because a, it doesn't answer the question, and b, I mean, it's. I don't think it's true. I mean, I don't think you are legally allowed to establish how somebody voted, even if you could technically achieve it. But I'm open to correction on any of that. 20 minutes after twelve is a time. Sorry, Sam, mate. Clara is in the west. Whereabouts in the west midlands? That's far too vague. Where are you, Clara? We may never know. Is Clara there? No. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you want to get a question on the board. Jordan is in Worthing. Jordan. Question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. When you go to a loud music venue or a gig, why do your ears ring the next day? And what is it? Oh, I like that. You mean like a sort of biological explanation? Yeah. What. What. What's going on? Your ears are ringing, but what is it? What's going on? So your ear does something to cope with the loud noise that then has a side effect or. Or a knock on effect later, probably, but I've got no idea. So quite why I'm talking, Jordan, I do not know. We'll find out. We will. Leave it with me. Why do your ears ring after a noisy gig? Zero. 345-606-0973 Clara is in kinver. You see. I am. That's a much more specific and helpful piece of information. One of the last places in England where people lived in caves. In the 20th century. Of course. Yeah, absolutely. It's beautiful. Are you surprised that I knew that? No, I'm not. Because you only lived around the corner. All right. I didn't know that you were listening on a regular basis. I was going to do. I was going to pull off some kimver edge trivia and leave you wondering what the hell was happening live on the radio. But we are where we are. Question or answer? It's a question. Okay. So I live in a three story house and the garden. The garden banks down another ten foot and I'm always watching the tiny, tiny little birds, little, little wrens and things like that, that go from the eaves and drop right down to the river at the bottom. And so you can imagine that is quite a dip. And I was just wondering if they get that sticky feeling in their tummy like you do on a roller coaster. Do birds tummies turn over? Yes. Unlike. Do they enjoy it? Well, how are you going to know that? I mean, I don't know. That's why I'm asking you. Measuring endorphin levels or something like that. But so do birds. What's the phrase when you go over a humback bridge? That's what you're describing. It's highly unlikely, Clara, isn't it? Given that the reason we have an evolutionary device that alerts us to the potentially dangerous plummeting that we're doing is because we can't fly. Now, given that birds can fly, they probably don't need an evolutionary warning that they're falling through space at a very high speed. Okay, sorry, did that sound condescending? Just a tad. With a k. Do you spell your name with a k? With a c. Oh, because I put it on the board as a k. And I thought I was really enjoying the alliteration between Clara and Kimva, but it's only. It's only auditory, not. Well, look, chances are, when I patronize a question, I turn out to be the idiot. So we shall leave this on the board in the hope that. I hope that I turn out to be silly and not you. Okay? Thank you very much. Did I ever tell you about. Did I ever tell you about the time that I nearly flew myself on kim ver edge? What, with using your arms? No, using a kite. I was quite small, and my dad was adamant that I was too small to handle this kite on my own. And he was quite right, although I wouldn't listen to him, as was my want as a six year old boy. So I took over control of the kite and I fell over quite quickly and then actually got dragged along the ground in Kimber, from where you call this is such a small world moment for everybody else. And at one point, I began to slightly lift off the ground and my dad sort of came to his senses at that point and sprinted across the ground to grab me so that I wouldn't fly away. Could have made a business out of that, you know, I could have made. Or I could have. That could have been it. That might have been it for me. I might be curtains with a case. Yeah, I might have been phoning somebody else that actually knew the answer to the person. Sorry, was I being condescending? Round of applause for Clara, please. There we go. Sliding doors moment. We shall find out for you. Do birds feel that weird sensation in their tummy when they plummet down through space very quickly? Zero. 345-606-0973 Andy is in slough. Question or answer? Andy, it's a bit of a steward's inquiry, mate. Oh, yeah, go on. Yeah. The pictograms and the old pub signs. Yeah. So the reason I'm inquiring is because I answered this question the last time. It was on mystery hour and the bloc asked about the royals on the signs. He did. It goes back to the english civil war. So a pub would show its allegiance to either side, the parliamentarians or the royalists, by dictating whether it was the king's head or the king's arms. If they put the head up as the king's. If they put the sign up as the king's head, it was to dictate that they wanted the king's head lopped off because they supported the parliamentarians and if it said the king's arms, they supported it. And pubs often used to change the sign. Yeah, I mean, this is true. Thank you. Yeah, but it's still. The question was, why do they have that on signs? And the answer is so that people know which pub it is. Ah, but. No, but you're not wrong. You're not wrong, but you've already. Listen, mate, you've already had a round of applause for this information. It's actually. This is extra rainy as information. Nah, nah. I want to speak to the. I want to speak to mystery, our lawyer. I am. I am the law. This needs sorting. How dare you? All right, I'll give you a round of applause and I shall thank you for your additional information, which has enhanced my already correct answer. Danker, mind how you go. Saeed is in Redbridge. Saeed, question or answer? I was actually. What? It's a question. Carry on in your own time. And the question was, when was the first currency exchange rate set? Blimey, that's a good one. I don't know. So you mean at some point in history, someone with a pocket full of coins from one regime arrived in a territory presided over by another regime that had their own coins and they had to calculate how much the coins in their pocket, how many coins for the other fellow's pocket were worth. One coin in your pocket. Exactly that. So when? When did it happen? I really like that question, Saeed. Thank you. Well, you're very welcome. Is it your own or did you steal it or somebody else? No, it wasn't. It was my son. I could tell. I could tell. There was something in your voice. You were betraying your perfidy there, in your tone and your inflection did. And he wondered as to why. Someone's name is Zane. He goes why is it that the saudi real and all the other kind of currencies are worth less than the pound? Yeah, and for now, mate, just tell him to be patient. The way things are going. I like that first recorded example of money changing. You've got the Bible, but that's money lenders, isn't it? Money changing? I don't know. That is a lovely question. I hope there is an answer. There should perhaps be an answer because it would be the first recorded case. You wouldn't be able to prove it was the first ever case, but it would be the first recorded case of currency exchange. Do birds get a funny feeling in their tummy when they fall at speed from height? Do spiders ever abandon their webs because they're not very good at catching flies? And can a judge order you to reveal how you voted? And the ears ringing as well? Why do our ears ring after a loud gig? Vanessa is in Bolton. Question or answer? Vanessa. I've got an answer. Cheer up about it. Most people are really pleased. Go on. I've got the answer to the earring. Oh, go on. Your ears ring after a concert or load music because your ears are trying to repair the damage caused by the music. And the reason I know this is yesterday I went into hospital for tympanoplasty to repair part of the damage of having tinnitus caused by load music. Load noises. You poor thing. Did it work? Is it better? It does work, yeah. Feel better. But the doctor said you the ringing is a sort of. It's your ear trying to repair itself by pumping blood. Damage. Cause by pumping blood in there? Some, perhaps. I'm just trying to think what. How it is trying to repair damage the body. I don't know. That's what I got pulled off and surgery tried to repair itself from the ringing. So you had surgery yesterday? Yesterday. To repair ringing ears? To repair the load ringing in my ears caused by damage to my ear. You know what I'm thinking about? I mean, do we know how many operations like that are conducted every day or every week? I have no clue. You know what? You should. You should have said, none. You should have said, I'm the first person in history ever to have. Because I'm told none. I'm the first person in history. Oh, well, in that case, you get one of these. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Round of applause for Vanessa. Yay. Do you want the good news or the bad news? Go on which good news or bad news? Let's have the bad first. Bad news. Is 2020 just peaked for you. What's a good. That's the highest honour you can achieve on british radio. Yay. It's coming up to 12:30 Vanessa, take care. Just turn the volume down a bit. I'm feeling noisome. I don't. I don't want to. I don't want to be responsible for slowing your recovery. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Holly Harris is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1234 and we have some questions in need of answers, which I shall remind you of in a moment. Before that, I'd just like to say thank you to Hannah and Doug, who? Traders Fitch and McAndrew in Castle dunk. They are ceramicists, if that's the correct word, and they make absolutely beautiful stuff, which you should definitely investigate, investigate further, if you like that kind of thing. But they sent me a lovely mug for Christmas and I forgot to say thank you at the same time. And there are a few people I can't say thank you to for the Christmas presents because, like an idiot, I took all the booty home. I took all the presents home and they got separated from the cards. So I think. I think I've covered most of it. But if I haven't said thank you to you directly and specifically, then I genuinely and sincerely apologize. And also thank you. I don't know quite why, but I got bombarded with presents this Christmas and it was. It was rather lovely, because I think I got naff all at home. So it was a relief. Do you know what I got for Christmas off my family? I got a game of darts. Which you supposed to play while sitting on the toilet. That was about it. I'm exaggerating slightly because I've checked the time and I don't think any of them will be listening. Deborah is in Kings Langley with a question or an answer. Which is it? It's a question. Carry on. Right, so one day I opened a bottle of prosecco and I didn't have a stopper to put in it. Why did you need a stopper? Well, because I pulled a glass and wanted to save the rest for when. So I wanted to put it in the fridge. But for how long were you going to save it for? Not too long. Not too long. Overnight? I mean, what sort of a monster are you? That's just not normal behaviour. And my son said to put a spoon in it, but upside down with the handle pointing down, and he said it would keep its fizz. And it does. It keeps it for a couple of days. And I just wondered why. How. How old is your son? He's 34. Oh, okay. That's a relief. Because if he was six, I'd be wondering where he picked up information like that. What are they talking. What are the kids of today talking about? Prosecco preservation tactics. I know the answer to this, but. Oh, you do? I need to perhaps caveat it with, I haven't got the science, and I'm not 100% sure, but I know what the received wisdom is. Right? The received wisdom is that the heat conduction qualities of the spoon mean that it will be even colder with a spoon in the bottle than it would be without. Even if it's in the fridge, it brings the coldness right down into the bottle, which changes the pressure, which keeps the bubbles present. So it's because it makes the. The neck of the bottle and the area that is full of air colder. So the. But the bubbles can't rise and disappear as much. Exactly. Lovely. Okay. I just wondered why it worked. That's great. Do you get a round of applause for that? I do. Yeah. It's great. It makes up for the coating. I just got off my sister via text message because it turns out she is actually listening to the program today. I thought she'd be at work. And when I said I didn't get any presents of my family, I didn't mean that side of my family. I meant that, you know, the wife and children side of the family, Deborah. But anyway, you've got your answer. Okay. No, thank you. 1237 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Words that still need answers, questions, even birds when they fall through the sky. What's that thing? Like a big piece of pie? I know. That's something completely different. Do they have any sense of falling in the same way that we do? My initial answer was, of course they don't, because they can fly. Whereas the reason our tummy tells us that we're falling at potentially dangerous speed through space is because we need to get ready to hit the bottom. But I don't know. I could be wrong. First recorded case of currencies having an exchange rate between two currencies. That should. We should be able to get an answer to that. Has any spider ever given up on a web because it was so bad at fly catching and can a judge order you to reveal how you vote? Andrew's in Fulham. Question or answer? Andrew, I have an answer to your spider question. Bring it on with your spider senses. Spiders do give up on their webs, but it's not because it doesn't catch flies, it's because it doesn't catch water. Generally speaking, spiders make their webs outside and they take their spider webs down when they capture the dew in the morning. First thing in the morning, that's when they take their webs down, because that's how they drink as well. So they do give up on their website, but indoors. Sorry. So they never give up on a web indoors? No, they will never get up on a wet. They shouldn't ever give up on a web indoors because it doesn't bother give up on it. And the indoors because it doesn't capture any juice from the morning. From the morning, yeah. No, of course it doesn't. So it's. It's not. So even if they never caught a fly, I mean, that doesn't make sense, though. They'd stay there and starve to death. Well, they just move on to another area and build another web somewhere else. Yeah, exactly. So they are abandoning a web because they haven't caught any flies? Yeah. No, no, no, because they capture the water. That's why they take the web down. They take you. We're answering different questions. Your knowledge is sound, it's solid. All right, but my logic is also impeccable here. So you're right, a spider will abandon or dissemble a web because it's got wet outdoors. But indoors, would a spider abandon a web simply because he hadn't had any dinner? Answer. Yes, you say. Which means that they will abandon a web because they can't catch enough flies on it and they'll go and spin one somewhere else, even though the old web is still perfectly fit for purpose. It's just not a very good fly catching situation. No, it'll leave the web up and. Well, there's an argument for that. But the main, as far as the spider is concerned, the only reason it's going to take that web down is to take water, not because it's not going to give up on it. So it would just leave the web? It might leave the web, but it wouldn't take it down, is what you're saying. Yes. Okay. But again, I don't. I don't. I'm gonna give you a round of applause. Don't worry about that. As long as your qualifications are up to sniff what are your qualifications? I saw it in a nature documentary. Oh, back of the net. Boom. He says. But you kind of. I mean, you deserve your round of applause, but we haven't necessarily gone fully definitive on the indoor web. Rubbish. Nearly said a rude word, then. Rubbish at catching flies. Paradigm. If it is a paradigm Nigel is in. Worthing. Nigel, question or answer? Answer, James, carry on. It's to do with the question of the witness. Oh, yes, yes. And when a situation arises like this in the court, the witness is treated as a hostile witness. And so, following on from that, the judge has the discretion as to whether or not to compel the witness to give the evidence. But he also has to take into account what. What would the impact of the trial be and how relevant is the evidence going to be? I'm going to go on a limb here and say that you have a legal training and you are answering this question as you would with any other question about what a judge can and can't compel a witness to say or what questions a judge can. I think that the secrecy of the ballot is different, incorrigible. Suggests it's protected under the human rights legislation. Actually. Yeah, I was just about to come on and say that it's highly unlikely anyway, that the judge would want to compel the witness to make that revelation in court because he couldn't prove it one way or the other unless they broke the law by checking ballots before they were automatically destroyed, as I am incorrigible points out. What are your qualifications, Nigel? When I was in a police officer, I was attached to the Crown Prosecution Service for three years and I was doing the Crown court appeal section. Oh, fantastic. I'm going to give you a round of applause. No, I agree, but you do deserve it. But with that caveat that I don't think a secret ballot falls under the same auspices as most other questions in which a judge may or may not want to compel a witness to answer. Oh, dear. Professor Hal is here. Question. Happy New year, Hal. Happy New year to you, James. Question or answer? I want to have a little nibble at pardon Prosecco. Oh, yes, we've answered this before. And stop saying that, because, you know, we've given up on the repetition rule, because everyone enjoys mystery outside. We've answered everything before. There are no, there is more to heaven and earth hellatio than is dreamt of in your philosophy. And it's like the fourth bridge, I suppose. Yes, it is like the fourth bridge. When we finish, we start again. Carry on. Okay. And it's a delightful, by the way, Nick. Nick Hardynes has been in touch with me again. Good researcher chat. I've got a lot of time for Nick, but I don't know that we're keeping the audience on tensor hooks by sharing these nuggets of personal and private information. Carry on. Right. So the answer is, it doesn't. It's correlation and causation again, because just because the prosecco is fizzy a couple of days later doesn't mean the spoon did it, any more than the bottle being green did it. It would have been fizzy. Anyway. Prosecco is a supersaturated solution of carbon dioxide. And the solubility. I don't know about that. It's all right, but I don't know how super is champagne. Carry on. And the solubility of the carbon dioxide is affected by things like temperature, as you've wisely alluded, and also agitation. If you sort of almost gargle with prosecco, it gets all fizzy on your tongue, because the nucleation sites on your tongue, the little taste buds give it something to come out of solution on. Little bit like the coke and mentos experiment, where it comes shooting out. So the reality is it's a red herring. Whether you put a spoon, a fork or a pencil in it wouldn't make any difference. It's still the solubility of carbon dioxide in, effectively, cold water. But doesn't the temperature of the water have an effect upon the solubility? Yes, it does, which is why you put it in the fridge. But the spoon, especially a teaspoon, isn't going to make any difference whatsoever. The fridge is the same temperature. The spoon is the same temperature as a bottle, at the same temperature as the air. So if it wasn't in the fridge, it would make a difference? Well, no, because again, the prosecco will assume that I did this experiment and it worked. I put two bottles in the fridge, was one with a spoon in, one without a spoon in. The one with the spoon in was physio. So I looked it up and that was the reason that I found. You look something up on mystery art? No, not on mystery. I did this experiment myself about three christmases ago. Okay, I hate to say this, but I used to be an avid consumer of prosecco and I also did a very. Have you had much this morning? Because that might explain why you've got this so wrong. But I haven't. And last time we asked this, you agreed with me. Did I? Yes. So we call it a draw, shall we? Qualifications. I'm a lucky, lucky guy. I get paid to be professor of public understanding and science at the University of Brighton. Oh, go on, then, spoilers. 1245 is the time. Coming up at one on LBC, Sheila Fogarty. In the words of one royal watcher, the palace is a place of protocol and precedent. The unprecedented has shattered that protocol. So what now for Harry and Meghan? Sheila Fogarty on LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1248. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Questions that still need answers. There's not many, but arguably my second favorite question still needs an answer. When did we first hear of? Or when was the first recorded instance of an exchange rate of two currencies? Someone calculating how much your money was worth in one currency, even though you currently held it in another? Birds falling. Do they have that strange sensation that we have spiders? Beautifully answered. Votes and judges, I think fairly comprehensively answered as well. Ears ringing answered beautifully. We even had a Ray Liotta today. I need to apologise for that, actually, because Vanessa, who received the Rayleigh otter. I'm not apologising for giving it out. I'm commiserating with her partner, who's been in touch, to say this just isn't fair. How dare my wife writes, Eric, Vanessa, get a Ray Liotta. Damn. Newcomers to the show. Well, you think of it. Take a piece of commission, Eric, if it helps. The rayliotta was Vanessa's, but if you introduced her to the delights of mystery hour in particular, in this show in general, and the warm glow of evangelizing is your reward. Guys in Teddington guy, question or answer? I'm going to try and answer. Get you off the hook for thrill seeking birds. Go on. We've all evolved different methods of coping with our physical environment, and for birds, it's acceleration from the inner ear. And birds don't actually get that sensation if they can predict what they're about to experience, so they have a surprise on the way, then they'll get a little tickle, like we would over a bridge. But if you're actually driving, so they know that it's going to happen, therefore they don't have any evolutionary warning. That's right. So it's not necessary what they predict happens. But we also know this isn't a contradiction of what you're saying, it's just an observation. We also know if we jump out of a very high window, what's going to happen? And we do get the warning, but we're not birds. Is going to be. Yeah, that's because we jump out of the window for the excitement of it. Yes, exactly. Really know what it's like. So we get that thrill that. I mean, roller coasters and we do scary things for, you know, as you say, excitement. Yeah, but, of course, if we jump out of the window, we'll never be able to record that, because we're not run to actually tell anyone what it was like. No, this is true. And equally, how do we know what birds do, then? Well, birds evolve in exactly the same way as we do, so they've evolved all sorts of senses to cope with their environmental challenges. But who knows? They may be thrill seekers as well. They may just close their eyes and say, I'm going to head for that river and see what happens. What are your qualifications? I'm a coward. I avoid thrill seeking. That's not good enough. Sorry, guy. Well, I do have a PhD in geology, and there's a lot of evolution in that. I could probably throw that in, but it's gratuitous. So the essential answer is they don't experience that falling feeling because they know what they've signed up for by dint of being birds. Basically, they predict what's going to happen, and so if everything happens the way you predict it. I mean, take Brexit, you know, I shouldn't have said that. If everything happens the way you predict it, then there's no thrill. That's one way of looking at it. Round of applause for guy. I like that. Also, you don't need to warn yourself that you're falling fast through space if you've got wings. I still think the original answer had the. The benefit of simplicity, even if not, perhaps, accuracy. Michelle is in Spaulding in Lincolnshire. Question or answer, Michelle? I have an answer, I think. Carry on. It's the question about the first ever exchange rate. Oh, good. Go on. Well, it's a lot of guesswork here, but I think it was something to do with the Knights Templar during the crusade. Briefly, there's a gender issue here, because no man ever comes on and says, I've done a lot of guesswork. I don't know, I might be wrong. Men come on and they go, I'll tell you what the answer is, even though they're probably less secure in their knowledge than you are in yours. But women come on and start apologizing straight away. It's a generalisation, a huge generalisation, but I just thought I'd point it out. Carry on, people comment every day on my modesty, James. I'm more modest than you are. I'm more modest than you are. Carry on. So the Knights Templar were the first international bank. So basically, if you had money held with the Knights Templar in London, you could travel to somewhere else in the world with a letter of introduction and then cash in your money. I'm not entirely sure how the exchange rate issue would work, but there must have been some kind of. If you had 16, you know, promised to pay the bearer. I promised to pay the bearer of this note. Well, it would just be gold. Process. It would have just been gold, wouldn't it? Well, probably not necessarily, because. Not. Probably not necessarily, but not every country valued gold in the same way, did they? So some countries would deal in shells or pearls or whatever, and the Knights Templar were incredibly, you know, international, so they would have taken a view on what was worth what. What was worth what, if that's a phrase. Yeah. So I think it's something to do with the Knights Templar. My qualifications are. My granddad. This is really cool. My granddad was a mason, used to tell me stories about, you know, the knights temple and stuff. But he was also, when he died, writing a book about King John's treasure. Because we live in Lincolnshire and King John's treasure was lost in the wash near where we live, and he used to go out hunting for King John's treasure and he was writing a book about treasure hunting. But you never found it, obviously. No. No. He did leave me, in his will, all of his research papers. What have you done with them? I've stored them away so that when I retire at the age of 50, because that's my plan, I'm going to spend a couple of years going off and finishing his book. I love that crumble keepers posted. That's a fascinating story. I love that. I look forward to it. Sandy. One of mine, which has been published. Ha ha ha. I told you I was more modest than you. Round of applause for Michelle. Thank you. Beautifully done. And it makes sense that, actually, because you'd need money at the other end if you were going on a crusade, simplifying complicated historical issues to an astonishing degree, but you would need some sort of way of. That's why you promised to pay the bearer. You can't be carrying it all around in your saddlebags. Although, of course, that. Yeah, I just suddenly thought of Robin Hood. Paul is in Belgium. Paul, question or answer? Answer. Carry on about the exchange rate. Although I get a sense somebody might just have answered it as well. Well, they might but, yes, but I think, presumably, then, we've done everything today. Have we done the bird spike? We've run out of questions, mate. So fill your boots. Well, it was just to say, in terms of monetary exchange, the first time you get people publishing lists of the equivalent values of coins from different places. Yes. That happened in Antwerp in the 1530s. Why? Because it's a major international commercial center. And did it have anything to do with. Did it have anything to do with the Knights Templar or the Crusades? Nothing whatsoever, no. You mentioned when the question was raised, the Bible. Yeah. There is monetary exchange in ancient times and all through the Middle Ages. Really? But that's all on the basis. If you see medieval pictures of money changes, they have weighing scales, and it's all on the basis of gold, the weight and the purity of the metal in the coin. Yes. Not the nominal value or where it's from. So. So, yeah, okay. I mean, when people are saying, oh, that's venetian money. Oh, that would be worth so much english money. I'm publishing a list of what all the coins are from different places, worth relative to one another. And there was so little travel that it was actually a manageable business, in a sense. Yeah. I mean, most merchants didn't use cash. No letters of exchange and some notional value. I'm going to give you a round of applause, because, obviously, the motto of this program is more karma, less drama. But I'm not taking away the last one, either. Yeah, I didn't hear the last one. Well, there was a reference to the Knights Templar being the first arbiters of exchange rate, because you'd want to turn up somewhere else in the world. Oh, yeah. Getting money from one end of the Mediterranean to the other, that sort of thing. Bingo. I mean, that's. That's a big thing in the Middle Ages. It's not the first. Well, 1530s is the Middle Ages as well. Well, no, but that's a slightly different thing in terms of. Exactly. Which is why I'm. Which is why I'm giving you both a round of applause. Nicely done. Thank you very much indeed. What are your qualifications? Actually, just as a matter of interest, I'm a historian of the 16th and 17th century. Well, then, in that case, you can. You can keep your round of applause, Paul. Thank you very much indeed. 1257. Squeeze in one more. Sandra's in church. Sandra, we've answered. We've answered all the questions. What are you doing here? I just wanted to. I listened with interest to your last caller about the spiders needing water, which I needed. I wanted to tell you about my. I've made him my pet spider and he lives between. He lives between the fridge and the gas oven, which means I can't really read the meter. I don't want to disturb him as the plumber. He lives in a little bowl on top of the fridge and he never seems to catch anything. He's like a really interesting tiger skin color and he seems to sleep for 80% of the day. He's not catching anything for months. As I said, I can't. I can't really. I've only just managed to read the meter with a. With a mirror and a torch, so I don't. Have you thought of getting a periscope? Oh, I'd love to. That might help you with your. I called him Harry, by the way. Nothing royal, but as I said, I said he was tigerish, which means he's got a gingery carapace, which is why you called him Harry. Oh, I never thought of that. That's what I'm here for. Yeah. He's joining the dots, you know. I like it. Well, no, I'm going to give you a round of applause because you're nice, but I've got no idea what. I've got no idea why you rang me. Just to share Spider related tales of Harry. Well, I think we're all improved for it. That's it for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Shunaflow. Hello, James. Thank you very much indeed. They are probably royal totes. Whatever undoubted love the queen has for her grandson, Prince Harry, he and his wife Meghan, have unilaterally announced freelance status while still hoping to be working members of the royal family, with at least some of the perks of the job. Just as his mother, Diana, wanted a formal ambassadorial role after she and Prince Charles divorced and didn't get one, they are unlikely to get the queen's blessing for a transatlantic royal court. But some sort of accommodation must be reached in the end, because their family and their gold dust as well. In Pr terms, should the palace find a third way for Harry and Meghan, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, or should they be made to renounce their status?