Could the Queen just say no?

On LBC. It is three minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery area is now underway. I've got some phone lines for you. Be quick, don't be dull, don't be repetitious. I'll explain more in just a moment. The number you need is zero 345-606-0973 if you have a question that needs an answer, if you are in need of enlightenment, then we might be able to help. The way it works is this. Someone rings in with a question. It could be you. A who, why, a where, a when, a what, a whither, a wherefore. Even the occasional whence. Anything goes with those two caveats about dullness and repetition. Why do we do that, James? Who invented that? What does that mean? Where does that come from? If that happens, why doesn't that happen? If that doesn't happen, why does that happen? Anything at all? And then you sit back and wait for someone brilliant to come on and answer it. And that someone brilliant could be you as well. So if you hear someone else ask a question to which you do know the answer, the number remains the same. You've got to ring in. I think I know in advance. I've got a question for you. This week, do we make an exception to the rule on Twitter for Chris Evans, who again, for the third week in succession, is knocking on the door like. Like a pestering child, begging to have his question included because he's too busy to bring in? I'll let you decide that. Text yes or no for Chris Evans getting a question put on the board via Twitter. No one else is allowed to do that. But, you know, I'm quite Starstruck. I'm prepared to make an exception for one of the finest broadcasters alive. I, however, leave the final decision with you, so take yes or no for Evans question. Quite a good question. Is the number you need to ask yours 84850. Just text yes or no if you think I should allow Chris Evans a special exemption from the golden rule of mystery hour. If you head over to the website LBC dot co dot UK dot, you can have a look at the archive and find out whether or not the question that is just on the tip of your tongue has actually been asked before. All terms of reference are banned. Anything you've read previous to this moment in time is fine. So if you hear someone else ask a question, you know the answer to it, because you've read Brewer's dictionary of phrase or fable, or you plowed your way through Roget's Thesaurus, or you've got encyclopedia Britannica imprinted upon your memory banks. That's all fine, but you're not allowed to look anything up from now onwards. Why? And this, I used to apologize in advance for this sounding a bit pretentious, but actually it doesn't. The more my children are learning and the more I see that how education is changing and the fact that they can google everything and look stuff up is changing the very nature of teaching in a way I'm not wholly comfortable with, but that's probably just my age. Knowledge. Knowledge should always be protected. Knowledge is power. So this is a celebration of education. It's a celebration of stuff we know. But don't end up thinking that it's got to be all highfalutin and intellectual, because when I say to you, what are your qualifications? After you provide an answer, it may well be, as regular callers do, say, oh, well, I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, James. Or I'm a professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex, James. But equally valid would be this. Oh, I saw it on telly last week, James. Or I learned it at school. I've always remembered it. Or I looked it up last month because my daughter asked me during the school holidays, anything. I don't care when I say, what are your qualifications? I don't want to see your PhD certificate or anything like that. I just want you to tell me how you know that thing, you know, what you just told the rest of us, you know. Oh, and I'll only say the number when I've got a phone line free. I think that's it, isn't it? Yeah. Paul is in Birmingham. Paul, question or answer? Question. Jane. Carry on. Paul, I'm really hoping that you can answer this thing as you work on the radio waves. Indeed I do. I want to know why disc jockeys are called disc jockeys now. I understand the disc. Bit. Obvious one. Yeah, but I don't understand the jockey bits. And being as it's the Cheltenham festival at the moment, I thought jockeys were quite, you know, in vogue and all that kind of thing. So I thought timely. It's not very exciting. This, weirdly, I have looked at. You're going to ask me what my qualifications are and my qualifications are. I've looked this up on wikipedia myself in the past, okay, which is, I mean, not ideal in terms of the quality of the banter that you and I can now engage in, but the answer is really boring. It was. It was one of those famous newscasters, like, I think it was Walter Winchell in about the 1930s who just started describing. Because it was relatively new for a radio, radio was relatively new, but the relatively new for radio presenters to start playing records or discs, as they were called, and therefore Walter Winchell just called them a disc jockey and it got picked up by the sort of popular media after he did it. I know it's boring, mate. It's not my fault it's boring. It's not my question. But that is the definitive answer. So he just called them a jockey and that was. What are you riding a desk? I mean, that's kind of the way that we sit. We're riding a microphone and we're riding a desk and you playing discs. So you're a disc jockey or the guy that's riding the discs? The discs are doing all the work and you just sort of put in the little bits in between. Okay, well, you can't sound like that or skeptical. It's one of those things, James. Well, I'm disappointed that the answer is as the dull as it is, really. Everyone's a critic. I know, but I think, I suppose, yes, you deserved a round of applause, but being as you work on the radio, maybe you actually deserve to give yourself a Ray Liotta for that. I'm not going to give myself a Ray Liotta, although I do appreciate your familiarity with the. With the occasional furniture of the program. If we had. If we had badges for loyalty, you'd have just won one. But unfortunately we don't. So I've just won this. And he's absolutely right. It does happen like that sometimes you think you're going to get a really interesting answer and it turns out to be really boring. Oliver is in Macclesfield. Oliver, question or answer? I've got a question, please. Yes, it's quite a simple one. Why is it that the italian football team play in blue when there's no blue on the italian flag? And also at the kind of side thing, the dutch team play orange and there's no orange on the dutch flag either. Well, hang on, don't they sort of cancel each other out? I mean, if you've come up with a couple of examples of teams that don't play in a color that is on their flag, then why are you presuming that they should be playing in a color that appears on their flag? Only two out of like 190 members of FIFA. Really? Can you think of another one? Well, come on, mate. It's not my life's work. You're the one who's rung in with it. It is my life's work, to be fair. I know it is. I can tell. I can tell. I know that the italian team are called the edzuri. That just means the blues. Kind of answer the question. Well, that's chicken and egg. Actually, it's not chicken and egg. I imagine that they made the decision to wear blue before their nickname became the blues. Of course. What else? Come on. Come on, Axel, help me out. Someone was going to say, it's crucial. What color does Switzerland play in? Red and white. All right. Brazil. They play typically with the yellow tops. And there is yellow on it, on the brazilian flag. Where? Oh, it's a little bit of yellow in the green background, isn't there? Yes. Like a yellow diamond, isn't it? So when I say to you, what makes you think, what great word? No, good word. Good, great word. When I say, what makes you think they should be playing in a colour on their flag, you say, well, almost all the other teams are. It's considered the thing to do. It's like if a new country became independent and then started their own football team, you would expect then the colours on their flag to be the kit. What the. Wales play in red. Wales do play in red. Yes. Scotland, navy blue. Blue. Like the St Andrews, England, are in white. Red. White and blue. France. France. Oh, yeah. So your rebuttal starts look pretty thin, isn't it, really? It's looking very shaky. No, I mean, I got. I got completely kippered by Sandra at the end of the last hour. And I can feel the ice beneath my feet beginning to splinter now, the longer this conversation, conversation goes on. Also, I can't just keep sitting here till 01:00 saying countries, can I? And then you come back and say, yep. That would not make a very good. You wouldn't win another award for that, would you? I haven't won any awards. I'm up for one tomorrow. I'm up for one tomorrow. No, I'm up for one tomorrow. I may not win it. Oliver, don't jump the mate. You just jinxed it for me. Stupid man. You've just jinxed it. I believe in you. Well, you might believe in me. What color shirt shall I wear? Whichever country you're from. What color do island play in? Islands playing green and then green, orange and white, obviously. It seems I've got, like, have to have, like, a second kit. Yeah, no, I get it. So how come the Italians and the Dutch don't play in a color that is on their own flag. Is there a reason? I shall find out for you, or I shall ask for you anyway. Thank you, Oliver. 1212 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is a number you need if you get the answer. Tony's in Cardiff. Tony, question or answer a question, James, please carry on. Very prominent at the moment is Brexit. Everything that's going on in the House of parliament and the House of Lords, whenever you watch them, the MP's always ask. They always talk about the other place. They never mention the lords, and the Lords always say the other place, they never mention the House of Commons. Now, this has been going on for hundreds of years. I'm fortunate that I've been to the House of Commons at number time. I always ask the question and no one can answer me where this came from. The origins of calling the other place the other place. Yes, I like that question. Isn't there a theater in Stratford called the other place as well? Don't know. I think. I think you've got the main memorial theater in Stratford and then. And then the sort of smaller theatre. Certainly when I was growing up, it was called the other place, but I just mentioned that in passing because I'm sounding quite ignorant at the moment. I thought I'd throw in some random knowledge in the hope of clawing back a little bit of intellectual credibility. You're not getting there, and I don't blame you, because I spend a lot of time there, ask a lot of questions about this, and even senior lords go, oh, I don't know. Why do they? What's the. I mean, really, the best we can do is probably. Is probably identify the first time it was employed. Well, I think it was something like 1400. There's lots of stuff saying that they do it. It's what is expected, but no reason as to why. You sound as if you've already tried quite hard to find out, so. Yeah, well, you're putting an awful lot of faith in the bozos who listen to this hour. Well, I was put a facing you, James, to be honest. Yeah. Cheers. I don't know that I shall try to find out for you. What's the origin of the. Of the threat? It goes both ways, doesn't it, Tony? The lords call the Commons the other place and the Commons called the Lord. They both do it. No, something that I did hear was, it was something to do with Charles the first, when you didn't want to be talking about the other house because you could be seen as a. As a royalist or as a commoner, but that's a bit spurious. But it could be something to do with that. I think you're going to. You've already provided the best answer available, but you never know. Stranger things have happened. Let's try and sort out Tony. Why do the lords refer to the Commons as the other place and vice versa? And why. What about Australia? Get Oliver back in. I can't just keep saying countries. Australia. What colour is the australian flag? It's got no yellow or green in it, has it? And they play in a sort of yellowy greeny. Milan. I think they do. And, yeah, I don't know if Oliver's question is going to stand the test of time, but if it has got an answer, why do a tiny proportion of international football teams playing a color that's not on their flag? Then ring me and tell me. And if you know why the Lord's calls the Commons the other place and the Commons calls the Lords the other place, then ring me and tell me. It's 1215, mystery Hour, with James O'Brien on LBC. 90 minutes after twelve is the time. Questions needing answers. Why? A lot of you getting in touch to remind me about the House of Orange. As in William of Orange. It was king here for a while, being the reason why the Dutch wear orange when they're playing. And I'm sure you're right, but it's not on the flag. Maybe it was on the flag previously, but then Italy and then. We've got big problems here. Oliver in Macclesfield. I'm amazed they put you through, frankly. Germany playing white. There's no white on the german flag. Probably some sort of pre, pre first World war flag. Prussia, prussian flag, white. Imperial. German imperial flag, white. What on earth are you listening to? You're thinking. If you just tuned in and you're not familiar with mystery hour, or indeed me, I think it's too hard to explain. Mike's in the city. Mike, City of London. Mike, question or answer? Answer, James. Come on, then. It's the football one. Good. And the obvious one. Dutch play in orange because of the House of orange. Italy play in blue because that's the colours of the House of Savoy, who used to be their rulers. And Germany, as you said, black and white is the colours of Prussia. So when the first football association was formed in what is now Germany, the dominant state was Prussia. All right, clever clogs. Thailand. Thailand playing magenta. Well, that's up to them, to their own free choice. So there is no requirement that your football strip should reflect the color of your flag, but tradition suggests it usually doesn't in the. What Oliver thought were anomalous examples. Actually, if you went back far enough, there'd be an association, a historical association, with that specific colour, even though it's not on the modern flag. Well, I mean, look at the inbound kids. Blue and white. And that's colors of the football association, is it? No, it's nothing to do with the union flag. But of course it's nothing to do with the union flag because otherwise it would be red and white, wouldn't it? Well, red, white and blue, but no, it wouldn't be blue because I'm saying it can't be the union flag because it's England, it's not the union. So it has to be the flag of St. George. It would be the cross. So it would be red and white, not white and blue? Yes. So blue and white are the colours of the English Football association? Yeah. Qualifications, Mike? All round football fan for 50 odd years. What color do kiddie Mister Harry is playing? I think red and white, the same as Middlesbrough. God, give him a round of applause for that. That is what I call knowledge. Absolute quality. Absolute quality. I was actually. No, I won't bore you with the details, but where's Morgan? Played a couple of games for kiddie. So I do think that Kidderminster's role in Leicester City's astonishing couple of seasons is in danger of being overlooked. Simon is in Oxford Street. Simon, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on, mate. Okay. When you've quit smoking, do your lungs ever fully recover to pre smoking days before you ever started smoking? Yeah, pretty quickly, actually. Surprisingly. Do they actually will end up looking like, you know, a fresh lung? I mean, I'm not. I can't. I'm not going to let myself go definitive on this because I've already trousered a couple of rounds of applause and I'm only about 80% certain that I've read this, that when you give up, you return to as if you'd never smoked at all. But that seems unlikely, doesn't it? Now, I said it out loud. As an ex smoker, you know, it's probably ten years since I gave up. But you just wondered, do they ever really fully go back to pre school? Yeah, because you would think people who gave up still get lung cancer at a greater, probably a higher incidence than people who never started. Cancer risk stops fairly soon after you've given up. That might be what I'm thinking the cancer inducing things actually disappear. But it's the other damage you've done, all the tar and everything that's in the lungs, does that eventually always go? It's a good question. I thought you were going to ask about the craving. I thought you'd given up quite recently and you were going to say, does the craving ever go away? But you've given up for ten years, so you tell me, does the craving ever go away? Oh, God. Yeah. Yeah, I've lost the craving. Even. Even when you've had a few drinks and it's a nice evening and you're sitting out on the veranda with your feet up and someone else's smoke wafts up your nose, you never. Good. Hate the smell. Hate the smell. Good. Yeah. All right. I'll see what I can do. Cravings gone. Yeah. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. It's a nice question. Thank you. Simon. 24 after twelve is the time Victoria is in Stansted. Victoria. Question or answer? Question, please. James. Yours. It's not very highbrow, I'm afraid. Well, have you listened to the rest of it? I mean, we're talking about football shirts. Oliver and Macclesfield sat the bar this week. You've got nothing to worry about. We're told that we're always only a few feet away from a rat. I don't know whether that's more so in urban or rural. I've lived in both. So given the vast volumes of rats that must be around and how few dead bodies we see, and I know they're predominantly underground, my question is, do rats eat dead rats? Oh, I thought you were going to ask if it was true, the urban myth about never being far away from a rat. Well, I'm sure it is true. I don't know how. Well, there are shed loads of rats in cities, so we go with that. And you want to know, so if a rat dies of natural causes, will the other rats eat it? Yeah. Because the answer is yes. Well, I think the answer is yes as well. It must be. I've seen rats. Rats will eat each other while they're still alive if you stick them in a sack. I mean, they're vicious little critters. So it's quite efficient, isn't it? I was just. I was just musing over the number of rat skeletons that there must be in the world. Where are all the rat skeletons? Well, I change. This is what I think about. That's what I would have phoned up to ask if I. If things were the other way around. And it was Victoria's mystery. I said, where are all the rat skeletons? If you think how many rats there are dying on a daily basis? Well, if it's urban, do the skeletons get mushed up by the number of other rats running up and down them? But you live by the river and quite a lot of the inlets, you know, the little. Some of them are old rivers that have been bricked over over the years, but others, some of them are runoffs and some of them have come out not so much direct from the sewers anymore. But there must be. There's a lot of rats around. And. Yeah, I never see sort of a little small pile of rat skeletons washed up on the foreshore. Well, no, neither do I. And at my stables, I poison them. If I see evidence of them, I leave poison and I know where I am because there's so much land that they're going underground, die, and they would just decompose. But the skeleton wouldn't. Not for a while. Not for a while. But I used to live in shad Thames and I never saw a dead rat. And I live in the country and I probably once in my life have I ever seen a dead rat. Yeah. Can I. Can I. Can I just do I need to do something quite important now. All right. This is Victoria, who has never seen a dead rat. I have seen loads because someone. Stop talking. This is important. I'm protecting my twitter feed because a few weeks ago, someone came in to ask about squirrels to ask why they never seen a dead squirrel. And we took it seriously and had some fun with it. And I still get sent. Every time someone sees a dead squirrel, they take a picture of it and send it to me. And it's getting quite unnerving, Victoria. So I do not want rats to be added to that. I shouldn't have said it. Now everyone's going to do it because I think it'll be hilarious. Now I'm going to get. Don't send me pictures of dead rats, guys. But I don't see as many that would equate with the billions that must be around. No. All right, so where do all the dead rats go exactly? Or is it just Mother Nature's fault? No, you don't. Stop doing it. I've got to get a question that someone can ring in and answer. Where do all the dead rats go? 345-606-0973 if you send me a picture of a dead rat, I will block you. That's it. No questions. All right, I'm blocking like a demon at the moment, but if you touch it, that's it, you're on the list. Anna is in Potter's bar. Anna, question or answer? Well, it was a question, but now I'm so excited about the rat thing, I don't know whether I'm allowed to talk about that as well. You're not really, but, you know, I mean, now I'm worried you've got something amazing to say and I'm going to prevent you from saying it on the grounds of just being a bit of a job's worth and keeping the rules in place. Do you know where all the dead rats go? Well, I could have a pretty educated guest. No, I'm not interested in educating guests. Crack on with the question. The question is, what is going on? When I put my son to bed in the evening and we read books for quite a while whilst he's cozied up in bed and everything's. Then lights go out, he falls asleep and I know I have to go back into the bedroom to take his cover off of him because he is now dripping in sweat. What is going on in the body? Who are we talking about? Your husband? No, that's my little boy. Oh, your little boy. And he gets really, really hot. Yeah. It's not like we've been. He's been in bed for ages because we've been reading books and he's not hot. So something obviously happens when he falls asleep in his body all year round. Oh, I didn't think it through that much because it might be the radiator. No heating's off, windows are open. All right. No pajamas on, nothing. How old is he? When you start? Nearly six. So it's not booze? I hope not. Because when I find myself. When I find myself uncomfortably moist in the night, it's quite often because I'm sweating. I'm sweating. Neat pinot grigio. Um, so why does he heat up? Because he's under the covers, Anna, and he's not. He's been under the covers for the whole time while we've been reading stories. Yeah, but he's moving around, so it's ventilating, isn't it? All right, I'll put it on the list. I don't. I don't know why. So. Yeah, all right. Why does he get so hot and sweaty? And don't beatles and wasps and stuff hoover up all the dead bodies? You shouldn't have done that. You should not have done. That is cheeky. I'm going to pretend that didn't no, I'm going to pretend that didn't happen, all right? I'm not going to fall out of you messing around with the mystery. Our rules. Who do you think you are? Chris Evans. Speaking of him, it's a resounding no no to Evans. They've said, no. Don't, don't lose. Loosen the rules, even for a broadcasting legend like him. In fact, one of the people who's just tweeted no to Evans is Evans. It's 12:30 Simon Conway is here now with the headlines. It's with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 1234. All this week, LBC has a special report with national counter terrorism policing. Listen to Nick Ferrari at breakfast and Ian Dale at Drive, who will be joined by special guests who will give advice on what to look out for, how to report anything suspicious and the key role the public play in remaining alert. And this afternoon, Ian is joined by a Met police inspector to explain what happens when suspicious terrorist activity is reported. For more information on how you can help combat terrorism and to see the full interview, head over to LBC dot co Dot UK. Speaking of terrorism, somewhat unfortunately, the story that you just heard in the news there at 12:30 I will bring you more on that as and when I have it. We're trying to raise. I'll bring you Peter Allen, our correspondent in Paris, as soon as I can. But the problem now becomes what is known and what is not known. France has issued a warning via its social media app of a terror attack after a shooting at a school in the southwestern town of Grasse. Reports then emerge. Police have confirmed that one man has been arrested and there may be a second person, possibly on the run. So, literally, before the light came back on my microphone, I was reading what Agence France Presse was saying and they were suggesting there could be as many as three gunmen. So this is what I mean by the developing situation being so hard to properly track. So the very latest is police say one man has been arrested. Reports at the scene say that a man in possession of several weapons appeared to be targeting the headmaster and opened fire on him, with other injuries reported as well. Residents have been advised to stay inside and we will bring you more on that as and when it happens. Peter Allen joins me now on the line live from Paris. Peter, what's the very latest? And I appreciate that things have moved probably since, since you picked up your phone to us. Hello, James. The latest is that a heavily armed man has been arrested at a school in Grasse, down in the south of France, very near Cannes, and he was surrounded by anti terrorist police after injuring two people. It sounds as though one of those injured was the director, that is to say, the headmaster, put it that way, of the Alexis de Tocqueville Lysay in the town. This is a very standard lysay. It specializes in technological subjects. Apparently, an accomplice of this shooter is still on the run and police are clearly trying to track him down. And that is absolutely everything that is currently known and confirmed. It's confirmed. It's an ongoing situation, there's lots of police in the area, but it sounds as though they are the key facts, effectively so far, bearing in mind that this happened within the last half an hour, last 40 minutes. So it's all happening very, very quickly. And, of course, we've got another incident up in Paris as well. There's been a, I won't say a bomb, explosion of device found in an envelope at the headquarters of the IMF in Paris. And the secretary has been lightly injured after opening that letter. Peter Allen, I suspect you may be speaking to my listeners or LBC's listeners again in the course of this afternoon. There's more details in March, but for the time being, thank you very much indeed. If you're just joining us, inevitably, given the terror status, these stories are covered a lot more assiduously than shooting an injury at a school in France ordinarily would be. But the terror alert that country, and indeed in this country, remains very high. So keep a very close eye on that story for you. It appears that the gunman has been captured, arrested by police. There may be an accomplice on the loose. Two injuries reported, including some reports saying that the target was the school's headmaster or director, as Peter just reminded, as he would be known in France. More on that as and when the story develops. 1238 is the time. Back to the business in hand, which, it being the final hour of first day's show, is mystery hour. Questions that are currently in need of answers include, how long, when you give up smoking, do your lungs return to pristine condition? Why does the House of Lords call the House of Commons the other place? Why does the House of Commons call the House of Lords the other place? Where do all the dead rats go? Where do all the dead rats go? And why do we get so hot at night? I like that question, but it's going to lose impact every time I ask it, because I know exactly what she meant. Anna. I think I knew exactly what she meant. But the. Some people are going to say, because you get hot, James. And that's. It's more than that. So hopefully you'll be able to answer it as well. Zoe's in car short and Zoe, question or answer? Answer, James. Come on. The condition, it affects some people. It's called sleep apnea. You know what causes us to sweat at night? Really? Yes, it's called sleep apnea. No, I've heard of that. You don't have to talk to me like I'm stupid. Sleep apnea. All right, Zoe. I got many flaws. That ain't one of them. But that. That. I thought that just made you snore really loudly. That's the thing that wakes people. They snort. It causes you to sweat. Really? Yes, yes, yes. We have a lot of patients in the ENt and audiology department. It starts off with sweating in some people and then it affects the breathing. He's only six. Would it. Would it. Would it display that early? The lads. Only six. Yes, it was. Because my son is seven and it began when he was two. He's actually got it as well. And your qualifications are? Do you work in the EMT department or do you just take your son there as an outpatient? No, no, no, I work there. Oh, that's convenient. Yes. Yes. What does EMT stand for? Ent. They've written EMT on the screen. I could have worked that out. Ear, nose and throat. Ear mosen. Throat. You moose and throat. So. And that is it. That's what he'll have. Should she seek medical help? Should she worry? Yes, she should. Yes, she should. Well, not worry. I don't want to worry. No, the thing is, James, in some cases, there are extreme cases of it. You know, if you see it, get it checked out as soon as. Because it could be. And it would just be. Go to the GP, see if. Then get an ent referral. See if it's sleep apnea. But that. That is if it's serious and it's regular, it's happening all the time. It could well be that. Otherwise the lad just might. Yeah, yeah. I swear I won't go into any personal detail. Round of applause for Zoe. Thank you. Thank you. 1241 is the time. Time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour continues. David's in Islington. David, question or answer? Answer, James. Bring it on. Yeah, it's the other place. Yeah, yeah. It basically, it comes from the mid 17th century. It was back when Oliver Cromwell actually abolished the House of Lords for short periods. I think it was about 2030. Years. Yes. But in the build up to that, because there was so much animosity between the House of Lords and the House of Commons, the refused to actually refer to either of them by their actual names. So, as polite as he could be in parliament. See, I like this, and I'm going to give you a round of applause for it, but I think the fellow who asked it already knew that he was somehow looking for something even more definitive than that. But I don't think it's going to exist if that's. He also said it was first recorded in the 14 hundreds, which I think is probably not true, because it makes sense that in the run up to the. It was Charles I. People loyal to Charles I would be mostly. I mean, all the lords would probably have been lord to Charles first to start with, before the civil war actually kicked off in earnest. So it was simply just a way of not having to say the words of the place that was full of the people you didn't like. Exactly, yeah. Qualifications that came from my history teacher back in year eight, misses Poore. She absolutely hated Oliver Cromwell. That's beautifully played. I can't not give you a round of applause. Now, you've name checked your history teacher from year eight. She's still working as well. If she's listening to this, she'll be absolutely made up. I hope she is. Let's give David a round of applause. What was the school called? St Ambrose Barlow. Back in Liverpool. St Ambrose Barlow, yeah. Nice play. Well done. Thank you, David. Good work. I like that. And that might not be the answer that the questioner was looking for, but I think it's probably the best question you're ever going to get. And that's why it got a round of applause. That and, of course, name checking. Your teacher, St Ambrose Barlow. Fiona's in hither green. Fiona. Question or answer? It's a question, please. James. Yes. What is the collective noun for a group of solar panels? What? I know, I'm sorry, I had to ask. I promised my family I would. But what makes. Why would that. What's the collective outreach? I mean, that's a silly thing to say. Not everything. Not every night. Sorry, just let me. Calm down and stop spluttering. What makes you think there'd be a collective. Now? It's like saying, what's the collective noun for. For clocks? Yeah, okay, okay, that's fine. That's a good. A good point. But we did have this discussion before they all agreed that I should ring in. There just seem to be so many of them cropping up nowadays in fields, particularly one being down the a 303 as we drive down to Cornwall to see my folks and it's massive. And my mum reckoned that they would probably be called a lake. A solar panel. She's quite the poet, your mum, isn't she? Is. Because I was going to go for a car bunkle, a car bunker of solar panels or a sea. A sea of solar panels. So you mean a little bit. It's a little bit more complicated than a mere collective noun. You mean the kind of. Is there a word you use to describe a multiplicity of solar panels in a given place? So you don't just say a field full of solar panels, you say, sure, yeah. Has anyone come up with one of those? Well, then, I would like to apologise for scoffing at your question on the grounds that I didn't properly understand it, although that was your fault for employing the phrase collective noun. Okay, clearly. Yeah. Sorry. That's all right. Both ways. I'll try. And. I like that. Yes, all right, I get the question. I understand it. So hopefully someone else will provide the answer. Fiona, thank you. I love the idea. I love the idea of a family conversation in a car going up the a 303 to Cornwall. And then I know how we'll sell this. We'll get James O'Brien's listeners. James will help. We'll give him a ring when one of us can get through to mystery hour. Well, here she is. Sort her out. What do you call a multiplicity of solar panels? Zero. 345-606-0973 Mark is in Barnet. Mark. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. The question is so you know, everyone know. Yesterday the queen gave her approval for Brexit. Today. Today, yeah. Given her approval. Um, that's actually a really good question. You mean if she just refused to sign it? Yeah. Yeah. She'd be executed. No, that's true, actually. No, I'm making that up. I'll try. Why does it sound so, so, so chaotic at your end of the line? Is there more than one of you using the phone at the moment? Yeah. So it's very, very wary of those sort of situations. You think it's about to be one of those Matt Bianco moments for anyone who used to watch Saturday superstore. No one else will have a clue what I'm talking about. It's not quite. It gets reported slightly wrongly, this. The queen giving royal assent, since no monarch's done that since Queen Victoria, in the sense that is often implied by the coverage but if the queen just said no, what would happen? I don't know. Zero. 345-606-0973 so here you go. Your majesty, can you just sign this? It's the Brexit. Certainly not. What a ridiculous idea. What would happen? Save the country? That's not what the questioner wants to know. The questioner wants to know what would actually happen. Constitutionally. No, I'm not signing it. Get lost. Get lost. Philip, chuck him out. We'll find out for you by 01:00. Or at least we'll try. 1246. It is 1251. And you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Just one small update. And again, as I've said to you, when these situations are fluid and live, you. You never know what will turn out to be the definitive truth when the dust settles, so to speak. But that shooting at a school in the southern french town of grass has left at least two people injured. Police sources have told journalists, with a report suggesting it was an incident between two students. One person arrested, another suspect on the run, according to a police source. As I said to you a moment ago, we'll stay with that story throughout the afternoon as and if it develops on LBC, mystery Act continues questions that still need answer. Where do all the dead rats go? How long does it take? Your lungs, do your lungs go completely back to normal after you've giving up smoking? Phil's in reading. Phil, question or answer? Hi, James. I think I've got the answer for you. May not be definitive, but I was a smoker, heavy smoker, up until twelve years ago. And the reason I know this, because I go in every year for an asthma checkup. I get asthma mainly from dogs and cats. I'm quite lucky in that respect. So I went in, spoke to the nurse, because they asked me all the questions, blah, blah, blah. And basically I asked exactly that question, you know, now I've been given up for so long, surely my lungs must be back to 13 normal, if not fully recovered after all these days. She said, oh, no. She said, no, you're known in the trade as a 2020. I said 2020, right? What's that mean? So she said, you smoked 20 flags or more for over 20 years. She said, your lungs, although you've done masses of good in giving up smoking, they will never, ever return completely back to fully perfect and functional. So that's where I get my answer from. That's pretty strong, isn't it? It was scary, I have to say. It was a little bit of an eye opener. I do tell people this now, anybody, you know, obviously kids, when you see him smoking, say, look, you know, I'm a bit of a forward old fart telling them. But yeah, it always goes down well with young people smoking and someone wanders out and says, there's a lad who works. Yeah, my wife is still smoking as well. Oh really? Oh, well, yeah. Again, it's even more effective when it's your spouse you're telling to knock. A difficult habit. There's a lad who works on one of the music stations here who's tiny, he's about the size of my little sister. He's about five foot, five foot. Nothing in his stocking feet. And every single time I see him outside having a smoke, I have to bite my tongue and stop myself saying, stop. You crowd smoke. You just can't help it, can you? I have also got, ironically, while I was waiting to be answered, I've got an answer to the one on the solar panels. I'm actually electric. No, no, no, because Wayne in Basildon does this for a living and he'll never forgive me if I don't let him come on and say so, Phil. All right, okay, so you take, you take your round of applause. That was a lovely answer. It's very close to a Ray Leo to that, but not. I don't know if having diseased. Well, not disease, but having bad lungs is something we should be celebrating with a Ray Liotta. We haven't had a raliota for a while. What's aureliota change? Well, it's the motto of the program, if you build it, they will come, which Ray Liotta recorded for us as a special favour, even though it's a slight adaptation of his line in the film field of dreams. He said, if you build it, he will come. We could have done it in the first hour, but I didn't feel. Given that we were discussing Marine a and his mental health, given that the campaign manager down from Bristol, John Davis, I didn't tell you his surname at the time, too modest to say himself. Done some sterling work on that, but it felt. It would have felt a little bit inappropriate. Oh, look, Wayne in Basildon's here. Question or answer? It's an answer, sir. Okay. It's the solar panel question. Oh, yes. What is a multiplicity of solar panel is just a solar panel. A collection of solar panels is a solar array and a collection of solar arrays is a solar farm. I think that's what the lady was talking about. So a bunch of panels you'd call an array. That's an array of panels. And if it's formally arranged and in a massive field, that you'd just call that a solar farm. So I think actually the word should be more keen to have learned is array than farm. Yes. Yeah. Good work. Qualifications? I'm a domestic energy assessor, solar surveyor, insulation surveyor and green deal advisor. Fantastic. Here, I'll give him a random James O'Brien on lb. See, if you build it, they will come. There you go, mate. You nearly spoilt it by talking too much. That's usually my problem. Well, I just want to say that's. That's not from Brewers Dictionary of phrase and fable. No. Which is where you normally get your answers from. You just got a Ray Liotta man. You don't, you don't. I'm over the moon. That's the full set. I know you want to. I think you might be the only person that's done it. Well, he's never had a Rayleighota. Oh, this is awesome. I'm hanging out. You never set off the basically alarm, did you, back in the day? No. Unlucky. Unlucky. But you get. Get a round of applause as well. Take it easy, mate. 56 is the time. Michael is in. Kim Bolton. Michael, question or answer? Carry on. On the queen not signing. Not wanting to sign a bill into law. Yes. Now this. This actually goes back to Cromwell. Second time he's come up in one show. Can I just correct that someone? I shouldn't let this get to me. It's the only thing that irritates me when I'm on air is when people correct me and they're wrong. So Oliver Cromwell was born in 1599, so it was perfectly correct to say that he was in his pomp during the 17th century. So clear off with your corrections, Michael. Carry on. Basically, when they. When Charles was deposed, when the reformation happened and James came back, we had a constitutional monarchy. Now, any monarch could choose to not sign a bill into law and they are perfectly eligible to do so. They're perfectly allowed to do so, yeah. However, they never will. It's a lot like the queen is allowed to vote, but chooses not to. It's a convention. It's a constitutional convention. And if she ever did refuse, then the constitutional crisis that would ensue would be so huge that they wouldn't even contemplate refusing. Yes. There would either be a civil war or they'd have to accept the fact that she didn't sign the book. Yep. Okay. I risk her being a pedant because I know it was. It's nerves rather than mistakes that cause these things to happen. It was Charles II, not James, wasn't it, that brought about the reformation. Yes, you are correct. But you get around. What are your qualifications? Qualifications? On this one, I did history and politics at a level I'll do and you just remember it. So, I mean, actually, I'm going to give you a round of applause in a way. We've speculated on the answer, even though it's correct, because the fellow would want to know what would happen if she did refuse to do it. But that would bring the monarchy and the constitution into crisis. Yes. No one knows what would happen. No one knows she didn't, because it's never happened. Because the only time it's got close to ever happening there was a civil war. And that's why it's a very good job that Prince William was the first. It was a civil war. Good job Prince William is the firstborn, because Prince Harry, there's something about him that I can't help thinking if they said to. No one knows what happened. If you did this, he'd think, oh, it's God. Let's give it. Sounds like a laugh. Wouldn't be the worst. Yeah. I'm not signing it. I'm not signing it. Get lost. Seriously. Round of applause. Round of applause for Michael. And we're out of time. I got a few more answers on the board, I might carry some over. A few of us suggesting that we should. We will do all this again tomorrow morning from ten. Many thanks for your help. The next voice you will hear on LBC. Oh, here she is. I've got a question. Go on, then. What would I have to do to get a Rayleigh otter? I don't know. I honestly don't know. You'd have to come in on a Thursday. Yeah, well, I'm here every day with an answer. With an answer to a question that has gone unanswered, for which your qualifications for answering it are truly exceptional and apply almost exclusively to you. Although the Rayleigh otter, the celebration is the miracle that you were listening, it's less of a miracle when you're on next. That's true. But.