James O'Brien - The Whole Show - 25 Nov 16

Text 84850 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC oh, how many times do we say that? This week, more than any other, we seem to feel the need for the light relief that mystery hour provides. Well, this week, more than any other, we really feel the need for the light relief that mystery hour provides. If you're not familiar with this feature, then I need to make you two promises. I issue two guarantees traditionally at this point in proceedings. The first is this. By 01:00 today, you will know more than you do now as long as you carry on listening. Obviously, if you don't carry on listening, I can't be responsible for the ignorance that will take hold of your consciousness, never, ever to release you from its scaly grip. You will know more by 01:00 than you do now. It might not be knowledge that you're grateful for. It might not be knowledge that you find in any way useful ever. And it might not be knowledge you can remember by 01:10 but you will at least have it briefly by 01:00 today, more knowledge than you have now. And there's another guarantee. You get a laugh out loud moment. Although a few of you have said that you already got your laugh out loud moment today in the first hour when we were discussing Theresa May's absurd claim that there's some sort of christian backlash in this country, and many of my esteemed and beloved callers apparently provided unwittingly some moments of true hilarity. You can download that, of course, as you can download all my programs, all LBC's programming from the LBC website over at LBC dot co dot UK. Because the point of Mystery Arrow course, which is also a free podcast, you can get it from iTunes. There's a big backlog as well, by the way, if you've, if you've discovered it relatively recently, a lot of people tell me it's a lovely thing to have on long journeys because the kids like it as well. My kids like it. I mean, you're bored of me. Imagine how my own children feel. But this is the one bit of radio they're prepared to listen to me present. They love it. Love mystery hour. Five minutes after twelve is the time. So zero, 345-606-0973 is the number. What's he talking about? Okay, he's talking about mysteries. There will be a question bubbling away in the back of your brain that you know deserves an answer, and in fact, you're pretty confident there must be an answer to it. But you don't know what the answer is, you could probably look it up or google it, but don't, because this is a celebration of education. This is a celebration of illumination, enlightenment. This is where you get to share knowledge that you have accrued in all manner of ways. You're not allowed to look stuff up. That's the only rule. Okay, well, there's two more as well. Don't be boring and don't be repetitive. But you can't control the second one, and it's my job to look out for the first one. If it's likely that your question isn't really going to. The answer to your question isn't really going to be interesting to anybody except you, then don't ask it. That would be my polite advice. All right, just don't ask it. If it's only you that's going to be interested in the answer. But if you think your question might resonate with millions and just make them go, oh, yes, that's very interesting. Oh, God, I want to know that as well. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Six minutes after twelve. I think that's it. Should we just crack on? Shall we? I haven't got a pen again, so I'm probably going to forget what all the questions are that you've already asked. So do someone keep an eye on what currently needs an answer? All right, you can tell this is live. If it was pre recorded, I definitely would have brought a pen into the studio with me. And if you hear someone else ask a question to which you do know the answer, then you have to ring me or your radio will blow up. That's it. Them's the breaks. That's the rules. Mister is underway. Simon is in Southampton. Question or answer, Simon. I've got. What? Can I ask two questions? No. Next call up. Chris is in chat. That's not fair, Simon. Of course you can't ask two questions. It is tough enough to get through once. Why else would you be allowed to take up two spaces? Go on. What's the question that you've got that you cleared with the producer? Well, the question is this. I'm an art fanatic, okay? You're a what? You're a what? Fanatic. An art fanatic. Oh, art with a t. Yes. That's a relief. I'm not. I'm not really, but it's just. It helps my question. If I want to buy a banksy, then how on earth do I get at home? Oh, you're a comedian. No, no, no. People buy banksies. Yeah, well, you can buy canvas based ones, or some people have chipped all the plaster off the wall. Some people have knocked walls down. I mean, there's all sorts of circumstances in which people have tried to transport the street art that has obviously been put onto street furniture. But to be fair, if you can't work out that for yourself, then the notion of you ever having enough money in the bank to be able to afford in a bank. She is completely beyond the ken of man. Chris is in Charleston. Chris, question or answer? I have a question. James, Harry, answer. You probably know the answer. This one. We're going to answer it and I'm going to ask it anyway. When you hear american radio stations and their names and their titles, so many of them have the letter k in there, like k, l, m and k. There's just so many of them. What's the letter k means? Why? Are you sure? Yeah. I don't know. Are you sure that they all. Because I, K rock and K. I'm just gonna have a quick chat with one of my colleagues, because he knows a lot about radio. Mark, is this true? Do you? There's lots of k's and lots of w's, apparently. Yeah, exactly, yeah. Do we know? Do we know what do you. Is? I mean, is it. Is it a valid question? Is what I'm asking, yeah. You've got the thumbs up for the question. K. Why K? K Fm K. What does the k mean? If it means anything, my k. We want k. I like that question, actually. Is it a bit. An Iraqi with a k? Well, I don't know. You've got to provide me with the answer, I guess. Well, it's not my job to do that. It is, of course, my esteemed callers, one of whom will probably know the answer to that. Why does. So I'm going to stick a w in there as well. Why do so many american radio stations have a k in the title or indeed a w? And as he frees up that phone, I knew, of course, can grab it. Gets a bit busy, of course, on Thursdays, but never so busy that if judicious use of redar won't reward you with a line into the building. Dave is in Moulsey. Dave, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. You're not in the shower at the moment, are you there? No, no, I've got the kettleboarding. Okay, that'll be it. That'll be it. Carry on. What's your question? The expression someone walks over my grave when you get a shiver. Anyone know where that comes from the actual origin of the phrase, yes. I mean, you know, you go, someone's just walked over my grave, and no one seems to give me the answer, where the expression came from. Yeah, okay. I mean, I know what you describe. You describe a sort of shiver, but why would we say someone has walked over. Yeah, why would we say someone's walked over my grave? Is it because I don't know. No, no, I get it, I get it, I get it, I get it. It'd be nice. It's a figure of speech. I mean, it's kind of obvious what it means, but why you. Where the origin comes from? I like that question. If you know the answer, you know what to do. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you can answer that one. Or indeed, the question about why so many K's and W's feature in american radio station titles. Caroline is in Aberdeen. Caroline, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Okay. Why are certain drinks like brandy, whiskey, vodka? Why are they called spirits? I don't know if you have. I mean, why wouldn't they be called spirit? I mean, why is beer called beer? You mean as a generic term? What's the meaning? Why? What's the meaning behind that? What's the meaning of life? What's the meaning? Spirit? What's what? Yes. Oh, you'll never get to heaven. Say after me, Caroline. Oh, you'll never get to heaven. Oh, you'll never get to heaven. If I drink too much alcohol in a bottle of gin because God won't let no spirits in. Oh, I'm very poor. You're not enjoying that at all, are you? You'll never get to heaven in a jumbo jet because God ain't got no runways yet. I'm not convinced. No, you're not. No, no, nor would you. Spirits. It's because they're undiluted. I don't know why. All right, you're on. Spirits. Methylated spirits. Methylated spirits as well. It's got something to do with dilution, but I don't have enough information at my fingertips to secure a richly deserved round of applause. Karen, do you drink a lot? No, not really. Moderately. Did you move to Aberdeen for the whiskey? No, I don't like the stuff. Hate it. You get deported. Just stop. You get deported. You can't say that. 1211 is the time. Spirits. Why are they called spirits? Origin of the phrase, someone just walked over my grave. And why there's so many k's in american radio station titles? Brian is in horn church. Brian, question or answer? James. Carry on, mate. I know this sounds a bit geeky, I know this, but I'm sorry to say the K's and W's in american radio stations. Yeah. It's issued by the FCC and in the states they've given the numbers. Do you mean the Federal Communications Commission? Yeah. W is the east of the Mississippi K's or western Mississippi for some reason. And it's just like an identification thing for radio stations, rather than giving it names like LBC or Capital or. Why do I need to know whether it's west or east of the Mississippi? Don't know. It just is qualifications. I read it in a book somewhere once and it's just stuck in my mind. Yeah, that'll do that makes sense to me. I'm gonna buy that. Are we gonna buy that? We're gonna buy that. You're on. Okay, hang on. Stay there. Go on. Oh, there it is. I thought it was broken. Seriously, I thought. I thought I saw the sensitivity, because I've got that on my rear view mirror at the moment. Have you got one of those rear view mirrors that flashes if there's a car coming? You know, on your wing mirror? Your passenger side wing mirror, Brian. Everybody else, sit down. This is really interesting. All right. You're going to love this. So what I've got on the Volvo, the mighty Volvo bry, is my blind spot. Do you see what I mean in the wing mirror? If there's a car in my blind spot, the light comes on, it's on all the time. It's gone haywire. I thought that might have happened to the mystery. Our round of applause there, that it just sort of got a bit obscured by a bit of detritus. But it's all right, it's okay. Sounds like the sensor's gone wrong. Well, I don't know. I've given it. I was going to give it, not lick it. I was going to sort of lick my finger and then wipe the camera area a bit. But then I thought, you know, what am I doing? I might do that when I go home. Give it a bit of a. Give it a bit of a slap. Anyway, I'm glad for that. You're doing anything nice for Christmas, Brian? I beg your pardon? I didn't hear that. Doing anything nice for Christmas. Probably having a bit too much alcohol. It's already started. Have another round of applause. Been a top fella. There you go. And a radio. A radio enthusiast. 14 minutes after twelve, Mark is in Bromley. Question or answer, Mark? Question carry on. My eight year old son asked me the other day, randomly, out of the blue, dad, if your stomach acid was on your hands, would it burn you? And I said, well, I don't know. I know it's really strong. I think it probably would. He said, well, if that's the case, why doesn't it burn your stomach? So the question really is, would it burn your skin? And if the answer is yes, then why doesn't it burn your stomach? Is his question there. Because of the mucous membrane in your tummy, so the acid doesn't really come into contact with your actual stomach lining. Or rather the stomach lining. No, fair play. If it was on your outer skin, that is. Well, your epidermis on your hands is pretty thick, so you'd have to leave it in the stomach acid for quite a long time before it actually started digesting your skin, I imagine. But I think ultimately it would. Qualifications? Genius, mate. How long you been listening to the program? Too long. You're not going to take that then, are you? No, no. Fair enough. All right, I'll get someone proper to answer it before 01:00 or I'll do my damnedest. Why does stomach acid burn your hands? Probably is my amateurish answer. And then why doesn't it burn your stomach? Saliva, mucus membranes. It's like Halloween. 1215. This is LBC, 20 minutes after twelve. Matt Fryer with you Saturday morning from ten. That's six days a week on LBC that you get some intelligent conversation at 10:00 in the morning. Don't miss that, whatever you do. Back to mystery. Why are spirits called spirits wood stomach acid melt your hand? And if so, how come it doesn't melt your stomach? I do know I did actually answer that correctly, but not in a persuasive or scientific form. Walking over your grave. What does that mean? Where does the origin of that phrase come from? And we've done the call sign key. Where do we go first? Oh, Professor Hale is here. Why is Professor Hal. Stomach acid or spirits? Professor Hal? Hello, James. I could actually do both, but I phoned up in good faith on the spirits one. So before that, were you really in Siberia last week or the week before? Yes, mate. And actually, I'm going to say this. I was 20 minutes on hold to answer one of the questions from Siberia. Yes, knee deep in snow. And I told my host to wait. And Caroline didn't put you through? I'm not going to finger Caroline for not putting me through. But I was. I literally was minus -20 and I was so frustrated anyway. So you were. No, no, it does matter. It doesn't matter. It's all about. It's all about creating a family atmosphere on the program. How you know that? You're like the sort of weird uncle. This is. This is the. So you were in Siberia in the snow. It's -20 on hold to get through to mystery hour. And we didn't put you through. That summarizes it beautifully. That's just rubbish, mate. Seriously, in the new year. Don't worry, mate. Heads are going to roll over Christmas. I'm sorting this place, you know? I'm draining the swamp, Hal. I'm going to drain the swamp. The thing was, I was standing there and these Russians were walking by and I was saying, caroline, I'm on hold from Siberia. And there's like. Of course, I could just hear you chatting away with all your other calls. I can't believe you didn't put him through, Karen. I can't believe. And it was never. It was just cruel. Sorry, mate, about that. Not funny at all. What are. Why are spirits called spirits? Right. Okay. So the reason I know this is my PhD supervisor, whose name is late Paul Powell told me about this. If you take a glass of water on a hot day and look just above the glass, you just see normal stuff. Yeah. If you took a glass of, say, petroleum spirit or diethyl ether or even alcohol, and look just above the glass, you see a weird shimmery effect, just like on a hot day when you fill your car, because water's got lots of surface tension and spirits don't have. And the kind of entomology was, it looked a little bit ghostly, and therefore, that's why they're called spirits. And it's not the only serious. Yes, I'm serious. Yeah. It's spirit. And it is. It's alcohol. Petroleum spirit. It means a volatile organic liquid, shimmery. So methylated spirits, it would work. It would fit your category, and if you reach it, if it reaches a certain point of dilution, it ceases to be shimmery. And at that point, it's not a spirit anymore, so to speak. That's correct, yeah. Yeah. I mean, methylated spirit is alcohol, ethanol, with a little bit of meth in there to make you throw up if you drink it. Is that right? Yeah. And ether is a funny one as well, you know, ether, it's not. It's r o r. It's a ch three och three. Diethyl ether. We get the word ether. Ether was at some point, everyone thought that light had to have a medium through which it traveled, same as sound does. Yeah. They didn't know what it was, so they made something up. It was the ether. So when an email disappears into the ether, it's this unknown, slightly morbid thing that no one can actually identify. So, yeah, organic chemistry. Can't say fairer than that, mate. I mean, that's actually quite an odd, because it's not scientific, that answer. But it is science in a sense, yes. How the language of science is derived from the language of language. For those who don't know, Professor Hal is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And you get a round of applause. What were you doing in Siberia, mate? I was doing science shows at the All Russia science Festival in Krasnoyarsk. And, yeah, I did it in Moscow last month and I said, can you come back at a week's notice and do one in Krasnoyos, which is a long way away. It's just above Mongolia. So me and my test tubes were all the way. This is your millionth round of applause. Do you have a special case like James bond to fit all your science stuff in? Do you have, like, you know, with bits of foam that you've cut shapes in yourself? Yes, I have five of them and they're very heavy and I spend about a grand on excess baggage. Why aren't you going to give Wayne and Basildon a job? Or you can carry your bags for you on a big foreign trip like that. No, I'd actually. I'd be delighted if Wayne from battle and came along because I do need. But you don't have to pay for his ticket. You don't have to pay for his ticket and stuff. No, he wouldn't. You know, it's all basically, it all gets paid for, but when you go on your own, it's actually can feel so quite vulnerable. I bet you can. You know, Wayne's a big lady. He'd have your back. Yeah. Might have to clear it. He'd have to clear it. He'd have to clear it with his, with his, with his good lady. And then he's got the little one now to look after. Of course, I'm just mentioning that because he hasn't been on mystery for a while and you were stuck in Siberia. I love that. 20 minutes. Well done, Caroline. Thanks for obeying that one. That was Mike. 25 minutes after twelve. Oh. Three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven. Three. Phone lines free. As I bid farewell to Hal questions that still need answer involve stomach acid. And that phrase, someone's just walked over my grave. What's the origin of that? But if you hit the numbers now, you will get through three phone lines free. Actually, don't hang around. Seriously. If you've got a question, or you can answer any of the two questions remaining on the board, then you've got no excuse not to have a go now. Zero. 345-606-0973 David is in Watford. David, question or answer? Question. Carry on. And I really, really hope it's not dull. It's interesting to me and I hope that's good enough to find it. You've got through. You're fine. You're all right. You're not standing in the snow in Siberia for 20 minutes. You're on the actual radio, so it's all good. That's true. All right, well, let's. Let's try it and see how it goes. So. Watched a really good documentary of the week with that young Reggie Yates fella. Was really good. Yeah, I like. And he was talking about some. It was the mechanism mexican drug cartels. And there was a really interesting stat about the valuation. It was some crazy, like, 300 million per year valuation. And I've just been thinking about it. I can't work out. So if a market is completely illegal and therefore unregulated, how can you. How can you know how much money is passing through that? Just rewind a bit. Yeah. In what context? Did you hear the figure? It's one of those voiceovers. So Reggie meets. No, I know, I know. Okay. They say something like, the drug industry in Mexico is worth an estimated $300 million a year. No, that's not. Now, I know they're saying estimated, but how do they even get to a ballpark figure? Because who knows? Well, they did. You mean they estimate several variables and extrapolate a number from them. So how much product is created? Average sale price of production. Combine the two and you come up with an average size of market. No, but aren't those unknown? Well, no, the price is not unknown. I mean, you can extrapolate from street value down to wholesale value quite easily, and then the scale of production would be probably more of an estimate than the price, but still a pretty, pretty good estimate. You'd get a fairly clear idea through convictions and capture, and then extrapolate from that all the people who haven't been convicted or captured and roughly estimate how big the production annually is. No, your logic's fine, but that seems. I don't know, maybe there isn't an answer, James. But I'm just. Hang on a minute. I've given you an answer. I don't know if you haven't. No, I don't know if you have. What do you mean? I have definitely given you an answer. Whether it's right or not might be open for debate, but the fact of me providing an answer is not. Is not arguable. So we can agree on the money. When they say that, you know, drugs with a street value of 7 million pounds have been discovered in the back of a container in South Africa. We all know where that bit comes from. All they've done is estimate how much cocaine comes out of that part of the world or that part of a country in a given year. And they do that by looking at what they know and then estimating what they don't know and coming up with. That's why they said estimated. It is logical. I'm going to take a round of applause now, whether you like it or not, I think you should. But I'm going to be quietly hoping that someone who knows more than you on this is going to call up with a student inquiry. Someone who, what? Knows a little bit more than you this topic. On this topic. Oh, I see. Oh, all right. Yeah. There you go. Carry on. It's coming up to 12:30. Drugs, stomach acid, spirits. We've done. That was a good answer from Professor Hal. If you missed it, the answer to why they're called spirits is because of that shimmery effect that you get just above. Oh, no. Is he still. Oh, no. My second favorite science word I could have used then, my favorite science word you'll all be familiar with. It's got its own little jingle now on LBC. But my second favorite science work, remember what my second favourite science word is? Meniscus. It's just above the meniscus, isn't it? You get the shimmery effect just above the meniscus. I like meniscus. It's no osmosis, but I like. Oh, that's working as well. I can't believe it. I thought that one might have gone south. Like my wing mirror. It's just approaching 12:30 you're listening to mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, which means bang on time. For once lately, I can hand you over to Simon Conway for the very latest headlines. A 15 year old mystery hour with James O'Brien on NBC, 33 minutes after twelve. If you were listening in the first hour, you'll have heard me dismiss fairly roundly, Theresa May's claim that there's some sort of shame involved in being christian or some sort of backlash against Christianity underway in this country. You will also have heard me, if you were listening in the first hour, describe myself as a Christian and describe the fact that I go to church most Sundays and that I try to live my life according to the teachings of Jesus as laid down in the gospels. You'll also have heard me suggest that the real reason why Theresa May is talking about a christian backlash is to get a persecution narrative underway, which is fundamentally about condemning Muslims. That's my fear. I just want to read you the first two replies to the clip that LBC have put out of me doing that. Remember, as a church going christian, maybe James should convert to Islam or move to an islamic country. Do you think possibly I might have got this absolutely right again? And Andrew writes, the prime minister has formally said, this is a christian country. There are a great number of people pushing an islamic agenda. And then Andrew puts on caps lock for the words no more. So I do a little piece saying, I don't really think there's a backlash against christians. I think Theresa May might be cozying up to the kind of furious islamophobic narrative and using the persecution of Christians as a way of currying favor with those people, and those people pile in immediately. It's almost scripted. Also, it's a little bit grown up and serious for mystery, so we'll leave it and move on to the questions that still need answers involving stomach acid, the pricing of drugs, which I think I've done. But if you can improve upon it, feel free. And the origin of the phrase someone just walked over my grave. Wayne is in Dagenham. Wayne, question or answer? No, he's gone. Lars is in Lewisham. Lars is in Lewisham. Question or answer, Lars. It's an answer, Joan. Carry on, mate. So you know the stomach acid? Yes. This is. It's a little gross, but, you know when you go and do a number two. Oh, mate. I know, but bear with me. No, go. Well, no, no. Can you. Alright. It answers the question. Are you sure you can't do it another way? No. All right, carry on, then. And sometimes it stings afterwards. Oh, no. But that's stinging. I love your accent. You're like the Brian cox of number twos. I'm from Sheffield originally. So a little bit of stomach acid follows your number two out, is that right? Yeah. And that stinging that you get is because the stomach acid burns. So if it came in contact with your hand, it would burn. Maybe not as much as down there, because it's a bit more sensitive. And obviously it doesn't burn your stomach because your stomach's built to house it. It's lined with a very. The stomach lining is very alkaline. Yeah, exactly. It's kind of what I said. And I didn't need to get all lavatorial about it, did I? Yeah, well, I know the answer because the unfortunate incident happened. I asked my dad, who went to medical school, who works in hospitals, and he said, that's the answer. But you didn't need to bring bums into it. But that's how I got the answer. Yeah, but I didn't. You don't need to do that. You could have explained it using words like alkaline. You didn't have to talk about. I'm just not as intellectual as you, I guess. You are more intellectual than me. God. All right, I'm gonna give you a round of applause, but next time don't. Don't get all toilet y on me. All right? I'll try not to. Don't. Try not to. Just don't do it. All right? Round of applause for Lars. There you go. The Brian cox of Carses Wayne is in Dagenham. Wayne, question or answer? Afternoon, James. Can you hear me? Yes, I can. You're going to be. You're going to get. You're going to be causing trouble now, you know, with Wayne in Basildon, it's like the two Waynes, the two Essex Waynes with their two little turfs. There's going to be a turf war in Essex. Yeah. Sorry, there's a question. Please, sir, carry on. Why can't you massage yourself? You can massage yourself. It's not the same sensation, is it? No, I love. I quite like the echo we've got going on here. Oh, it's gone now. You just be quiet a second. Wayne, I'm going to play with your. With your radio. That. That's his phone that's echoing. Right. Hello? Hello? Hello? No, that was you, Wayne. That wasn't an echo. Hello? Hello? Hello. I think. I mean, tickle, tickle work, but you can't massage yourself. It doesn't relax as much because you're exerting yourself to actually apply the pressure to the massage. So your muscles are acting in a different way from how they would if you were just lying flat and prone on a table. Really? Yeah, obviously. No, because if you. For instance, if I had a shoulder pain, which I did have a few weeks ago, I was squeezing my own shoulder and it just didn't feel relaxed. And as soon as the wife done it, it felt so much better because you've got your arm all bent and stressed when you're squeezing your own shoulder. And then when. When your good lady wife comes along to apply her magic fingers, you're all relaxed and intensified, or even your feet or anything like that. Yeah. Obviously, if you. If misses odright tries it, it's a lot nicer, isn't it? Well clear why. I wish I knew. Mates alone very much. One way traffic in the foot massage department in our house, actually, as it goes. But I don't want to dwell on that. She might be listening. Part of the point is expectation, so you know it's coming when you're doing it, but when someone else is doing it, there are. You're taken by surprise. You don't know whether they're going to go left or go right. But the reason why you can't apply a massage to your own muscles as effectively as someone else is that you need to use your muscles to apply the pressure to the massaged area, surely, isn't it? I thought that was obvious. Is it obvious to you, James? Yeah. And now? And now? And now to you, Wayne. No. Yes. I've just got something in from Wayne in Basildon. He says, who is this other Wayne? Who is this other Wayne? Cut him off. Dagenham is rubbish. Dagenham is rubbish. And technically London. All right, I'll leave it on the board. But if I'm wrong, I'll give you the money myself. Why can't you massage yourself? Nice one, Wayne. Thank you very much. 1239 is the time Colin is in. Worthing. Question or answer, Colin. It's a question, James. Carry on, mate. Who decided on the length of a cigarette? What? They're pretty standard these days. You've got king size and you've got normal size, for want of a better word. And you've got cigarette papers. But somebody at some point must have sat down and said the length of a cigarette. Who decided on the length of a Mars bar? Man? Or a packet of opal fruits? Starburst. Well, that's probably done on white, isn't it? I would imagine. Why would be any different from a cigarette? Who decided on the length of a walking stick? How long is a piece of string? Height, isn't it? What? And you can get. You can get variable length. Yeah, all right. The walking stick bit didn't work. Go back to the Mars bar. Forget the walking stick. Walking stick was a red herring. It's just. I mean, well, somebody must have decided. I mean, it's not, but someone decided on the length of everything. Who decided what size a newspaper should be or how big an iPhone is? All good questions. Somebody should ring in with them. We'd never do anything else, Colin. So you don't have an answer? You don't think it's a valuable question? I don't think it's a valid question. Because, as you just said yourself, if I accept a question about the length of cigarettes, I'll be here until Christmas asking questions about everything from the length of a computer keyboard through to the size. Who decided that my mug should be the size it is? That's true. That's probably to do with fluid ounces and weight again, though, isn't it? Ounces of tobacco, then. Probably they decided to sell a cigarette with x ounces of tobacco in it, and once they'd rolled it up in a satisfactory fashion, it turned out to be a certain length. And then they made a machine and it was all uniform. And Bob's your uncle. True. But Mars, who make Mars bars, decided autonomously the length of their Mars bar. I mean, all chocolate confectionaries aren't the same length. Actually, they are, mate. They used to be. Certainly. They used to call you. You would get a Snickers and a Mars and a Twix, and if you actually line them up all against each other, they were an identical length. Well, like when you just taught me something, I may have made that up. I think you might have done. Topic. Texans, they're all the same length. Picnics, star bars, everything exactly the same length are within a millimeter of each other. It's called a euro bar. A euro bar? Really? New form of currency invented that. Waffling. I'm not waffling, I'm obfuscating. There's a very crucial difference between the two. I am. However, I've got two things going. Do I leave your question on the board or not? Cole? I think you should. I think it's a valid question. All right, then. But I'm never taking another question about length ever again. All right. Otherwise, like I said, we'd never do anything else. First, who decided on the length of cigarettes? And I suppose, by association, cigarette papers. Do you know how long you've been listening to the program, Colin? Oh, on and off for a couple of years. Not that long, actually, no. So you're not. You don't remember the Colin rule, then? No. Go on, what is it? No, it's nothing personal, but. No, you know. Hang on. It's my game. This. You can't. Between 2011 and approximately 2014, I banned all people call Colin from phoning this program. Okay. The next time I ring, I'll call myself something else. How about that? Oh, I never thought of that. No one. No, under the band didn't work very well. But. No, I'm just mentioning that because I'm. What I was about to say before you got all snidey. I was about to say, I'm very glad I lifted that band, because it's been a real pleasure talking to you about the length of cigarettes. Thank you very much. Thank you very much indeed. 1243 is the time. Helen's in Worcester Park. Helen, question or answer? Question. James, please carry on. Why is it that when you see a wheel on a bike, maybe in the park going. Obviously going round and round? Yes, it looks like it's going backwards. When you focus on. Not so much on a bicycle. Have you not yet on a bicycle. Well, I thought if I mentioned the car word, you might hit the. No, that's fine, because everyone's seen a car. It's not like asking. I mean, the reason why car questions are discouraged. Although, didn't we have one earlier? Did we have a car? Or was it just me banging on about wing mirrors, actually proving my own point about all car related conversations essentially being dull? The answer to your question and whether or not you accept this or not is up to you, because it's correct. But it's not going to sound very detailed or informed. All right? It's. It's to do with how quickly your eyes can process information. So you like a frame rate on your eyes. You know, you get a frame rate on a film or a camera, it's the number. And so your eyes are taking lots and lots of tiny little photographs and your brain is turning into a moving picture and the wheel is turning around faster than your eyes can process the information. So the pictures they're taking are spaced apart in such a way that it makes it look as if the wheel is going backwards. That's good. That's good. That is good. Are you going to take that? Yeah. I love it. I tried arguing with you before and it doesn't work. No, it does if you're right and I'm wrong. Helen. No, I'm only joking. No, that's lovely. I thought it might be a little bit more exciting, but I'm happy with that. That is it. If there's a stewards inquiry, I will hand back my. My round of applause. Okay. Day round 1244 is actually, it's nearly enough. 1245. So let's do this time for Jay Louise night now in the LBC travel center. Thank you, James. Good afternoon. Yen 25 in Berkshire. 1249 is the time. I hate doing this, but occasionally I have to. I have to issue an apology. Very sorry, to Sarah, who has texted. So, James, stop making me laugh. I'm painting the shed and I've just spilt paint everywhere and bumped my head over your toilet conversation. I'm very sorry, Sarah. I shall do my best to be less amusing. Johnny's an Ipswich. Question or answer? Johnny. Don't be funny, mate. Don't be funny. Oh, mate. You alright there? Sounds a bit under the weather. I was coming. Just coming off a chest infection. Oh, no, that's no fun at all. Did you antibiotics? Was it steroids? I've got asthma. Oh, Johnny, mate. Well, welcome. It's a question, James. Yes. I was watching the crown recently with my partner. I hear it's very good. I hear it's very. It is very good. I'd recommend it even for a period drama. Yeah. My partner mentioned how long would it take for, like, the new sovereign's head to appear on coins? You mean in the event of her Majesty tragically passing away? So how long after Queen Elizabeth diamond will we see Prince Charles ears on some coins? He is off with his head on with his head is the question, actually, isn't it? I presume. I mean, it's the same question as saying, how long does it take a coin to come out of the mint and get into circulation? Isn't it? Because they'll start doing Prince Charles coins the very next day when they. Or not. But the new fiber took. Those plans for new fiber, like, took two years because of all the committees and stuff. So I was wondering if it's like, if it's. There's a plan straight away to start minting head. That's a really good question, actually. Has he already done a silhouette? Because the queen's changed a few years ago, didn't it? She went from being a younger queen to an older queen. They changed the silhouette that they used on the coins. Yeah. And I quite like. Yeah, I quite like the idea of Prince Charles's ears being in sort of metallic relief. If the queen. When the queen. When Prince Charles becomes king, how long will it take for his face to appear on the coins? Yes, I like that a lot. I'd be surprised we get an answer because I don't know who would know unless we got someone working at the royal Mint listening or something like that. But I'll do my best to get you. 10 345-606-0973 if you can answer Johnny's question, I hope you feel better soon. Johnny as well. There is still room for you to answer the question. The origin of the phrase walking like someone's just walked over my grave, we all know what it means. It means you've had a sort of spooky shiver, but when did we start saying it? And why? Someone's just walked over my grave. We've done the stomach acid. We've done the drugs. But if you think you can improve upon my answer as to how they can say that the drugs industry is worth x million pounds, how do they know if it is by definition, all undercover? And why? Who decided on the length of cigarettes? Or even if you've got a question of your own, and how long after becoming King will Prince Charles's face head visage appear on our coinage? Paul is in Wimbledon. Paul. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Yeah, the massage question, James. You were pretty much right, if you can imagine. Obviously, we're all more susceptible. Can't say the word perceptible to touch from some other people. Yes, but it's simply a matter of angles. What angle you can have and the fact that you'd probably be using two hands when she's massaging your shoulders. Using two hands, not one. Yeah. Obviously you can't. You can massage yourself. Well, of course you can. The question was, why doesn't it feel as good? To which the answer will be a combination of unexpectedness of touch and your own discomfort in having to reach the relevant area. That's correct, yeah. What are your qualifications? I am a massage therapist. Are you? Yes, I am. How much for an hour, roughly? Very well. I don't want any. I don't. Any specials, actually. Starts quite low. It starts quite from about 20. Can go up to over 100, depending what sort of math like you have. Really? It does. It really does vary because there's different skills in math. When I do news night, I can't have a kip in between the two shifts. Right. So I've finished work here at 01:00 and I'm not on the telly until 10:30 so I usually go from massage, but obviously. Yeah, obviously. I go to, you know, a sort of spari type place. I don't go to any of those dodgy looking places between here and the BBC, but. But I pay quite a lot of money, so I was just wondering what the guts all going rate was for a deep tissue massage. 60 minutes deep tissue massage. If I were you, I'd get someone to actually come around. Get someone to come around and do it where you are. Well, I can't do that, can. I'm at work. I have to go to that. That's the point is I can't go home. If I could go home, I'd nip home for a quick kip in between the two gigs. But I can't nip home for a kip, so I go for the next best thing, which is a massage. No offense. What should I be paying? 60 minutes. An average of about 60 pounds. How much? An average is about 60 pounds. Oh, they saw me coming, Paul, give him a. Mentioning it on air now, and I hope we're getting a discount. Give him a free. Give him a round of applause. We like you, Paul. Well played. Thank you. No, thank you. 1254 is the time I spent a summer once working as a waiter in a restaurant where three of the waitresses were at beauty school, all learning to be massage therapists, and they all needed to practice. That was one of the finest summers of my life. Robbie's in Croydon. Robbie. Question or answer, sir? No, it's a James. Carry on, Robert. It's to do with the walking over your grave. Oh, yeah. Where does that come from, then? Right. I believe it's from when the prisoners were taken out of Newgate jail to be hung. Yeah. They had to walk over the burial area because the prisoners were buried within the confines of the prison. Yes. So that's why the term comes from. So they walk. But so they would genuinely walk over their own graves on the way to be hanged? Why would that then become a figure of speech for the rest of us? I suppose you just take it up into normal parliament of conversation. I don't know. I like. I like. That was on there. I heard it on the History Channel and I bought various books on London's prisons and executions and it's come up in those as well. It's pretty good. Pretty good. I reckon there's a round of applause on the way to Croydon. Thanks very much. Thank you very much. 1255 is the time, Nick. Next in Kilburn. I've got to stop doing this small talk with every caller. I'm in that weird mood. It's probably because my mum's coming at the weekend. My mum will start a conversation with anyone. Seriously, I'm in that sort of mood. I'll be sitting on the tube later saying, well, that's nice. We've done some Christmas shopping. Nick's in Kilburn. Question or answer, Nick? Answer. Carry on. Right. It's regarded the length of a cigarette. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's all to do with the rate of flow of the smoke that you inhale. Because if it's about balancing the amount of tobacco to the length and the rate of flow, so that's why it's got to be a third length as well. If it was too. If it was too long, you'd be like, not getting anything out of. And if it was too short, it'd be gone in a flash. Yeah. Because. And also you have to. Because you have to have a certain amount of tobacco within a cigarette to make satisfied. And if it was too short and you wanted the same amount of tobacco, then it would be too wide and it'll burn too quickly. Still a bit arbitrary, though. You could have a centimeters grace either way, because you've got the difference between a king size and a normal and what haven't. But it's still relevant, though, because the length is still relevant to the rate of flow. Ultimately, what are your qualifications? I saw a documentary where they had these machines that actually simulate the sucking action and then they actually measure the rate of flow. We cleared your browsing history. Well, you know, it's all about limp and girth, isn't it? But. Yeah. And that is where you learnt it. It's all about the flow. It's got you a round of applause. Also got you an asbo. 1257 is the time Len is in hollow. Len, question or answer? Answer, mate. Carry on, Len. The coins with the. Yeah. How long. How long after. How long after the poor the queen passes will Prince Charles's fizzog appear on the old coins? Heard this mentioned before somewhere and it was when, say, like, no, hang on a minute. Then you got to sound a bit better. You can't say, I heard this mentioned before somewhere. You got to sound like an expert. Oh, I'm an expert in money, then. Oh, well done. Because. Yes, carry on. When, say, the queen passed away on, like, Christmas, like December 23 or something like that. Yeah. And it won't be for about another year for Charlie gets put on the throne and crowned. So the coins would normally come out approximately the time of the coronation because he will be then with the crown sovereign. You're just saying stuff, really. You haven't got a Scooby Doo about the actual. Well, I've heard this before, you know, people. So how long after being crowned does his face appear on the coins immediately? They pre make them. But it's not an issue. They. They made them already? No, I wouldn't have thought so. So they start making them when the queen passes away, but they don't issue them until he's got the crown on his head? Well, they were. Not immediately after she dies, but. Well, when that was the question, then, Len? When? Len? Whenever the mint decides to do them. That's not an answer. Whenever the mint decides to do him. The question is when, Len? Well, I would say about three months before he gets crowned. But you're just making that up. You just pluck that out. The Easter. Len. When, then? I've not been about when we've had it. Well, I was. Honestly, men. Come on, Len. When? Then? You got me tongue tied on that one. Do you know where I'm going now, Len? Yeah, I'm going to my den. It's job 59. I'm off to my Len den. That's it for me for another day. You have been listening to mystery hour. James O'Brien on LBC. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Well, then, from three. Andrew Lloyd Webber says, british theatre is still hideously white. Those were his words. What's stopping people of color getting into and thriving in the performing arts? After two, Cherie Blair says men and women should stop calling themselves mothers and fathers. And in that, that was. That was a sarcastic cough and instead refer to themselves as parents who share out childcare duties. Pie in the sky or the change we need. And after one, a vote to leave the EU was meant to be the beginning of the end of mass immigration. ONS figures today show record levels of said immigration. Meanwhile, EU ambassadors say that Boris Johnson, the figurehead of the Leave campaign, is in favor of freedom of movement in Europe. David Davis, the Brexit secretary, says we might pay to stay in the single market. So what was Brexit for, anyway?