Apples are seeds, so why aren't all apples trees?.

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time I'm going to break with the tradition of mystery hour by sharing one little nugget of news with you before it gets underway in earnest. I shall do that in just a moment. But I've got a verbal tick, have you noticed? I keep saying momentarily and then stopping myself because I had a few complaints from my pedants corner. So I still do. I always thought momentarily meant in a moment, but it doesn't apparently. So I'm trying to stop myself from saying it, but I don't stop myself in time. Sorry, it's not very professional. We are live, by the way, and yes, the light is on. I am now addressing the nation. Mister Al will be upon us in a moment. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on on your radio dial. If you're not familiar with this feature, I cautiously, modestly suggest that you're in for a bit of a treat. If you are familiar with it, then just buckle up and let's get going. But first, kippers. By the way, the phone line. I've got a few free zero 345-606-0973 you can ask a question about anything you want. You're not allowed to look up the answers. Okay? If you hear someone else ask a question you think, oh, I'll google that. Don't. Someone listening will know the answer and they'll ring in. And if you get a correct answer definitively and we're impressed by your qualifications, you'll get a mystery out. Round of applause. If you scale dizzying heights of qualification to contribute to the conversation, the question that we're asking you may get a Ray Liotta. Although there have been again some complaints that I've been dishing those out a little bit too liberally lately. I disagree. For the record, I think I've rained myself in over the last few weeks, but there was definitely a window in sort of March April when I was. I was doshing them out a little bit too liberally. Five minutes after twelve. Here is the latest. This is from the Brussels correspondent of the Daily Telegraph, a job that used to be held by Boris Johnson. The Brussels correspondent of the Daily Telegraph made a few calls, something that Boris Johnson rarely bothered to do, I'm told, but here you go. EU sources insist that the rules that mean smoked kipper producers in the Isle of Man must use plastic ice pillows when sending to UK as made famous by Boris Johnson are british rules and not Brussels rules. This is a national competence. The EU does not regulate sales of smoked fish to consumer. Only sale of fish from business to business. The Isle of Man example is outside scope of EU food safety rules. I am told smoked kippers to individual customers through the post is entirely a UK matter. Here is the british government advice on the matter. And if you follow James Crisp, who tweets as James Crisp six, the number six, you can find the relevant document from food dot gov dot UK. But here's a quote. All foods must be delivered to consumers in a way that ensures they don't become unsafe or unfit to eat. Damn them. Foods that need refrigerating must be kept cool while they're being transported. This may need to be packed in an insulated box with a coolant gel or in a cool bag. The EU has broad rules saying that food should be safe but nothing asking for the ice pillow. That is a british edition designed to stop living. Listeria and probably a problem. Listeria is a problem with smoked products and I hear this is actually a very good rule. In fact, the EU only regulates for temperatures on fresh fish and not smoked. So, to sum up, there are no EU food safety rules on smoked fish, which means a smoked kipper salesman needs to stick an ice pillow in his fish when he pops it in the post. But there are british food safety rules that do, and they are widely considered to be a very good way of minimising the risk of listeria whenever you have a kipper. So Boris got it wrong again when he used the kipper as an example of EU red tape. And I don't know, she doesn't welcome my sympathy. But, you know, if you listen to this program on a regular basis, that I feel genuinely sorry for callers like Christine, for people like Christine, for voters like Christine. But what she said about fish and chip paper was actually more accurate than what Boris Johnson said about kippers. Just leave you with that thought. Heathcliff is in rye. Heathcliff. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I was told that a two word Google search requires to use the same amount of electricity as a kettle being boiled. Who by? Some guy works in it. I'm not. It can't be trusting them, mate. Well, you got black black Adam, didn't you? What do you mean? Smoke me a kipper with captain flesh heart from black hat. It was red dwarf, mate. No, it was. Well, it was definitely red dwarf as well. Smoke me a kipper. I'll be back for breakfast. Are you sure about that? Hundred percent sure, man. I am a big, big fan of red Dwarf and blackadder. So am I, actually, but I don't smoke me a kipper. Flash. I think you might have got your comedy, ref. But anyway, we digress. What are you doing? I'm the one that goes off on mad digressions that have absolutely nothing to do with the subject under discussion. If we all start doing it in this country anymore, just bring time. I took back control of this program. Seriously, you'll be one of your fish and chips wrapped in a copy of the Daily Mail. Next. So someone told you that a two word Google. Why would the number of words affect. All right, doesn't matter. He was explaining it to me in such a way. The reason why he said it is because you put it into your device and it zips down the lines to a main frame. Yeah. Which then has to do whatever it does. And the coolants and all that that required for the brains, if you see what I mean. Yes, I do. So you end up when you're sitting there doing your little kugel search because you're boiling kettles all day long. I like it. I shall find out for you. I like this one. We don't want too many like this. Just. I've heard this thing. Is it true? It's not the most sophisticated approach to the mystery, our modus operandi, but on this occasion, I rather like it. And can I be the 7,000,000th. Can I be the 7,000,000th person in your life to ask you which of your parents was a bronte fan? My mum. And you can tell a person's intelligence because they either know Wolverine Heights or the thick people go, oh, the cat. I didn't think of that. It's a good job. It's a good job your mum was a Bronze Age fan, otherwise I'd have looked a little bit daft. Thank you, mate. Thank you, Heathcliff. For anyone who didn't understand why I asked him that last question. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. Is it true that a Google search takes as much electricity as boiling a kettle? Daniel's in Dartford. Daniel, question or answer? It's a question, please. And the question is, what is the fastest something could travel on earth? Bearing in mind when meteor and asteroids come into the atmosphere, they burn up. If something went quick enough on Earth, would that burn up? Does it? Do they burn up because. No, I see what you mean. They don't burn up because of the speed they're going. They burn up because of what happens when they come into our atmosphere. So what's the maximum achievable speed on Earth? Of anything? Yeah. Wouldn't it be the speed of light? I guess so. I guess a physical nothing can go faster than the speed of light. Except Superman. And he's not from Earth. He's not? No. Yeah. It would have to be a material thing. I guess so. You are physical object rather than light. Physical object other than. Yeah. Not light. Obviously, the speed of sound is speed of sound, but it's obviously not. No. All right, what's. Yeah. The fastest velocity that can be achieved by a body. Yes. A mass. A physical body on Earth. I like it. Zero. 345-606-0973 quite a lot of controversy brewing about Heathcliff's blackadder based claims. I'm not getting involved, all right? I'm rising above that particular comedy fray. Lucy's in May shell. Lucy, question or answer? Yeah, hello. Yeah, hi. It's something to do the moon landings that I've been listening to. Oh, yeah. Said apparently you can't burp in space. Really? And I wondered why. Yeah, yeah, really. It's come out the other end. Sorry to bring the tone down. Oh, he didn't have to. He didn't. Isn't there a figure of speech? When I'm thinking about Nigel Farage, for example? I often say he's about as welcome. About as welcome as a fart in a spacesuit. I thought that was a. That was a well recognized comedy catchphrase, wasn't it? Yeah. Why can't you? Do you know? Why can't you? But I don't, so you have to sort of. I mean, sometimes they take you by surprise. Few things delight eleven year olds more than a burp. That takes them by. Allegedly takes them by surprise when they open their mouth to speak, having just consumed a quantity of fish and chips wrapped in newspaper, and they do a big belch. So you're not allowed to burp or you're advised not to burp in space. You literally, physically cannot burp. Well, that'll be gravity. No, it won't. Yes, it would. Yeah, it'd be gravity. Well, why would it be gravity if you can shove? I don't know, mate. Just sounded. It's osmosis. Where's the music? Just testing, Keith. It only works when there's an accurate deployment of the word. It doesn't work when I misuse it. All right. Why can't you burp in space? To be fair, Lucy, I need to ask you why do you want to? Well, I suppose if you're in space and you've just eaten or drank, you might need to. It's bound to be gravity, he says, with absolutely no confidence whatsoever. But like Boris Johnson sounding completely plausible. Lucy. Thank you. Is it true that a Google search can use up as much electricity as it can? What is the fastest speed at which a physical body can travel? Like a lump or something? Something you can touch, you know. You know what I mean? And why can't you burp in space? Ryan's in Middlesex. Ryan, question or answer? Question, please, James. I've got a big apple tree in my garden every year. Oh, excellent. Maybe I'll give you the answer, then. Every year, the apple tree obviously drops hundreds of apples. Why don't I get hundreds of apples growing in the shadow of that tree? What? I know why I don't. I know why I don't. Go on. I've got astroturf. Excluding your astroturf. Astroturf aside. Well, I mean, I think you need. Yeah, of course I do. That's how they. I think. Don't the pips actually spread through? Bur. I think they need. Someone eats the apple and then the seed gets pooed out the other. It's all gone a bit toilet today. I blame Lucy with her burping in a space. I think that's. I think that there's. The dissemination of the seeds is more likely to be undertaken by animals that have eaten the apple than it is by simply the apple landing. Otherwise. Orchards. It'd be a big job in an orchard. You'd have to spend half your life. I'll find out for you. I think I've touched on something there. I think you eat the apple, which is why it's evolved to be so delicious, so that it gets eaten. The seed survives the journey through the alimentary canal of, for example, a goat comes out the other end. You've got a pre fertilized seed mate. Give yourself a round of applause. I'm not taking it yet. I'm far too modest. But I think that might be knocking at the door of a correct answer. Ryan. Thank you. 1215 is the time. LBC. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero. 345-606-0973 smoke, Mia Kipper. I'll be back for breakfast. What is the fastest speed at which something tangible can travel that is not speed or light on earth? I really like that question. I'm surprised we. Is it true that a Google search uses as much electricity as boiling a kettle. Why can't you burp in space? And why, if you have an apple tree in your garden, why aren't there little apple tree saplings everywhere? Given the amount of windfall that occurs every year, 18 minutes after twelve is the time Helena is in Dublin. Helena. Question or answer? Question, please. We might need to do something about that phone line. I don't know if. You haven't fallen down a well since you rang in, have you? Yes. No. We'll come back to you momentarily. Oh, I did it momentarily. We need an alarm. I need a little electric shock. Can we rig up the electric shock treatment if I use that word incorrectly? I want. There we go. Should we try Helena again? Helena. Question or answer? Question? Please carry on. Helena. Why? You know when you see someone hurting on tv or in a movie, why did the shooting pain up your foot or up your leg? What? And why do people. Don't you get that? I think you might have gout? I get it. My mom get it. My boss will get it. So you're watching something on telly and someone gets a slap and you get a shooting pain up your leg? Not just a slap, a, say, handmaid's tail kind of violence. Yeah. And someone gets cut and it makes you. It hurts in my feet. So is it like a contraction of the muscles? A cringing type sensation? Yes, but we get it in different places. My mom gets it in her behind. I get it in my feet. Your mom gets it where? You know, behind in a buttock. Oh, I know. Well, you live and learn and. And it's like a. Kind of. Like a bit like an electric shock. A mild electric shock. Is it like a sharp. Yeah, you've got. Ow, ow, ow. I've never. I've never heard of this before. So you're watching violence on television and you get. And your mother gets a pain in her buttock. Yeah. And I get a pain in my face. Or sometimes my leg. Okay, I'll find out for you. And it has to be quite serious. Well, so do I. Now, I'm not sure how widespread this is. It might just be confined to your immediate family circle. I'm spreading it to people around me. Contagious. So it's not a tingle? It's more than a tingle. It's actually a pain. A mild pain. It's a pain. It's like. Yeah, like a shock. Like a contraction of the muscles. When you watch serious violence on television, why do you get a pain in your buttocks or your. Not. If someone gets. Wow. James. Not if someone gets shot. It's more like if someone gets cut with a knife. I don't want to trigger anything, but I understand what you're saying. A particular type of violence promotes a physical response, a physiological response, in observers. I don't know that I recognize that, to be honest with you, but I'm absolutely, absolutely happy to accept your description of your mother's buttock. 20 minutes after twelve is the time Victoria is in Hyams Park. Victoria, question or answer? Hello. It's a question. Carry on. It doesn't involve your mum's buttocks, does it? Because I think we've. You know what it does involve? Body shape. So people come into it. And why do humans have different body shapes? So, for example, you have pear shaped, you have apple, you have square. But if you kind of. That's how people described. Yeah, but in nature, all animals, but in certain species, are the same shape. So if you take. If you take a bottlenose dolphin, all bottlenose dolphins are the same shape. You don't get one that's got a bigger bum than another one or a smaller fin waist, et cetera. You probably do. I mean, if you measured them, they're not all going to be identical. They, for example, they can tell each other apart. They'll be different sizes, but not different shapes. Yeah, but I think you're reading a bit too much into shape. I mean, the shape of a human is generally regarded as body shaped, you'd say head, arms, legs and torso. It's only when you get into the finer points of fashion that you start describing different. They're not that different, are they? I mean, I was wondering. Big boobs, little boobs, that you wondering if it was genetic. So, for example, if you have someone that's pear shaped, is that because of where they. Where they came from originally, as a country, you can have siblings. You can have siblings that are different shapes. Yeah, but all of our genetics are all mixed up, aren't they? Not every. Even though you're not twins, they are the same shape. But you can have two sisters that are different. You can have two non identical twins that are completely different shapes. But then that's because all of our genetics are mixed. We've had. We've got so much. No, I think you're investing too much in the word shape. I genuinely do. I'll put the question on the board, but I don't think the very. I think because you're human, you see astonishing variation. Actually, you can do this with ethnicity. So it's slightly thin ice in terms of political correctness. But if you're not of the same ethnicity as somebody else, then historically it's harder to tell people apart than if you are the same ethnicity. So we might think that all people from country X look the same, but people in country X think that they all look very, very different and we look the same. Do you see what I mean? I do. That goes. But I'm just talking about body shape. I know you are, but I don't think the differences are as acute as you think they are. Well, I just didn't know if it was because of certain environments that we. I'm putting it on the board. I'm just trying to politely suggest. It's a rubbish question. But you've pushed me to being rude now. Well, obviously you don't think so. That's why I was being so polite. You'll be telling me about fish and chip paper next. Honestly, no, that's not boring. Right, we'll find out. Is there any evolutionary explanation for different human body? You know, the ruder I am to a questioner, the more likely it is. I've told you this a million times, someone will ring in in five minutes and pull my pants down. I'll probably get a sharp pain in my buttocks. It is 24 minutes after twelve. Is it true that a Google search takes up as much electricity as boiling a kettle? Is there any evolutionary explanation for different body shapes among human beings? What's the fastest something can travel on earth that is tangible, touchable, physical? That is not speed or, beg your pardon, not light or sound? Why can't you burp in space? Why aren't there lots of little apple trees around every big apple tree, given the amount of apples that fall and rot into the ground? And why do some people, we're not quite sure how many, feel a physical pain when they're observing a particular violence on, for example, television? Bella is insure. And, Bella, question or answer? Answer. Hello, Bella. How old are you? Nine. Nine years old and you're coming on mystery. I think if this comes off, you might be the youngest ever person to answer a question on mystery hour. Let's go. I am answering the question of why you can't burp his face. You can't burp his face because there's no gravity. What are your qualifications, Bella? I read National Geographic magazine. Whoa. So if there's no gravity, that means that if the air comes up, if there's no gravity, then loads of food might come with it as well. So you can't burp without running the risk of being a bit sick in your spacesuit. Exactly. Oh, wow. Well, I'm going to give you a round of applause, Bella, but don't go away. I need to just ask you one more question, if that's all right. Have you ever been to space? No. Oh. All right. I'm going to ask you again. All right. And then you say yes. All right. Have you ever been to space? Yes. Well, in that case, you get one of these. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it. Thank you. Thank you, Bella. Thank you, Bella's mom, who I can hear. I think I could hear chuckling away in the background. 26 minutes after twelve is the time. Well, we can cross that one off. What a beautiful, perfect answer. John's in Macclesfield. Question or answer, John? Answer? Bring it on. The apple trees. The self seeding. Yes. So when the apples drop on the ground, apple seeds from the apples are not self pollinating. So you need a seed from another apple tree to pollinate the seed. Sharp. Yep. Seriously? Yeah. So you need two separate seeds, a daddy seed and a mummy seed. Yeah, basically. So if you wanted to get. If you wanted to personally grow an apple tree and you took a seed from one apple tree in your garden and planted it, it wouldn't grow. If you took one from a granny smith and a royal gala apple tree in your garden and you planted them together, they would pollinate and then you would get an apple tree and I. That. So most apple trees are going to come from. What's it called when you slice a bit of twig off? Yeah. When you graft, you're going to. Most of them are going to come from that rather than from a seed. Right? Yep. Exactly. So big orchards where they grow apples down south will graft onto a decent stock of apple tree and then grow many varieties off one tree. Simple as. So if I actually, you have to be right, because I'm not. It's time for a confession here, John. I'm not. I'm not that good at clearing up the windfall apples and I have been known on occasion to chuck a few around the back of the shed. Right. And that means. That means there should be some growths and there isn't. It's just a sort of weird composting mulch. Mush. Yeah. Yeah. Qualification. You want to clear them off. You want to clear them off your astroturf, though, because they'll cause a mess otherwise. Yeah. You're not wrong there. I just kick him. That's all right. What are your qualifications? I run my own gardening business in Macclesfield. I've done for 14 years and I've got RHS qualifications in horticulture. Good work. What's the name of the business? It's Premier garden care. Premier garden care in Macclesfield. With a celebrity endorsement. Now, next time I see Nick, I'll say hello. Stop it. Furniture store where an old mate of mine works 28 minutes after twelve. Round of applause for John. Do that, John. Good man. Cheers, pal. Professor Hal is here. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Question or answer, Hal? I'm very, very excited about the terminal velocity question. It would be that question, what's the fastest something can travel at? Right, well, there's actually two questions here. The first thing is the question concerning how fast something can travel when it's accelerated. But also I simplified it by using gravity. What's the fastest something can travel towards the earth powered by gravity? And that's all about terminal velocity. Oh, yeah. Should we talk about that? Yeah. So the thing about gravity is, because we've got air resistance, there's an up thrust. That explains why, sort of, an ant can fall out of a tree and still survive. So I need to confess to something I did. Look. A tiny thing. That's right. You're a professor. Not the answer. On the NASA website, there's a very, very nice terminal velocity calculator. And it uses an equation which puts into all the variables like the mass of something, the cross sectional area, the up thrust and so forth. So I did a little calculation concerning an anvil weighing 500 kilos with a cross sectional radius of half a meter. And the answer is 280 miles an hour, 446 km/hour that is, if it comes from an infinite distance into space, starts accelerating towards the earth and doesn't burn up, then it'll reach that, which is about right, because human beings in free fall reach about 120 miles an hour. Okay, so when powered by gravity only it's 280. Yeah. What about when powered by right engine? The reason we can't go faster than the speed of light is as you travel towards the speed of light, your mass starts increasing. Yes. So it's m equals m naught over one minus the square root of v squared. V squared over c squared, as it happens, yes. So you can never travel faster than the speed of light because at the speed of light, you have infinite mass and so you need infinite power to go beyond it. Yeah. And so technically, you can travel up to 99% the speed of light if you have enough energy. Technically, but we haven't developed a way to accumulate to generate that much energy yet. No, no. I think the Lockheed SR 71 Blackbird got to mach three, I think, which is three times the speed of sound. What's that in old money? Miles per hour. Three times. I can't remember. I can't remember what to be. The sound. No. But I know. All right, so as near as dammit to the speed of light is theoretically, in theoretical physics, you could calculate that if you have enough energy, but as you approach it, you need more and more energy to accelerate that little bit more. So you need far more fuel you can ever carry. Which is why we're never, ever going to travel to another star. Because unless you have those generational spaceships, you know, like on passengers, when you have several generations of people being born and dying on a spaceship, than maybe you have if you got inexhaustible fuel. Lovely question, though. It was a great question. Not a round of applause for you, Hal. Very nicely done. Maybe a bit late for the news. I was so engrossed in what he was saying. Lisa Aziz is here now with the headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1236. You're listening to James O'Brien. Hi. If you are splitting calls and answers only taking one or the other, please let listeners know as I've wasted ten minutes trying to get through, only to be told we're only taking questions at the moment. Call back in five minutes with an answer. I'm happy to have clarified that I'm also receiving. Well, I've received one message suggesting that developments in the House of Commons merit a little bit of attention, even though we are actually in mystery hour. So summon the usher word. LBC's political editor, Theo Usher, is here. Is it as input? That was very quick. How do I mean, he'd never move that far. This is really important. And I've been banging on a band all morning. Oh, I'm busy. Oh, I'm not heading this. Oh, no, something else. Basically, you're just insulting me now on my own radio show. You came over. You started wanging in my ear before I'd even sat down. No, it was after you sat down. You always have a go at me about tomorrow. I'd sat down, but I hadn't got my feet under the table. It got to do Twitter. Anyway, it's really important. This is what is happening in the House of Commons, there's a fairly. Well, it is an uncontroversial piece of legislation, the northern Ireland bill, due to. And it's going to be passed uncontroversial because Theresa May can only bring forward uncontroversial pieces of legislation to maintain governance in Northern Ireland while there isn't a power sharing agreement. So sort of housework, really. Housework, housekeeping. Hilary, Ben and Alastair Burt have tabled an amendment to the bill, a change to the bill, which means that in October a minister of the state has to come to the House of Commons and update MP's as to how the progress of forming a government in Northern Ireland is going. It is going to be law for the government to do that. Yes. And even if parliament is probed, a prime minister, presumably Boris Johnson, is going to have to make sure that parliament is again sitting so that a minister of the state can come to the House and update MP's about Northern Ireland. So they're building a loophole. So, of course, this is important because then the parliament will be sitting, the House of Commons will be sitting in the last two weeks of October. And if MP's at that point want to pass a motion or legislation to prevent a no deal Brexit, they will be able to do so. And of course, what has been talked about in recent weeks is that future prime minister could prorogue Boris Johnson, Dominic Raab with the two contenders who are talking about this prorogue parliament, suspend parliament to prevent MP's from bringing forward that motion or legislation to prevent a no deal Brexit. The current thinking at the moment is that they would suspend weak. Commencing October 14. We leave the European Union on October 31, get to week commencing November 4. Realize that they can't pass a Queen's speech. But by that point, we've already left the European Union. Boris Johnson will fulfill his promise and he'll call a general election and that's it. But this is space. We'll get the vote result in the next hour or so. Do you think it will? I mean, everyone knows what this is designed to do. Burton and Ben. Burton, Ben Burton, Ben, have explicitly designed this to do what you described. So people will be. I mean, it's almost going to be three line whip territory. It is three line. It is three line whips. Of course it is. And if all eyes on Philip Hammond, the chancellor, all eyes on David Gork, the justice secretary, will they resign? Or if they decide to abstain because Theresa May has previously let off? Well, she's previously let off in votes in the spring, she let off MP's, who abstained. It was on no deal. Again, they abstained on that and therefore the vote passed. So if those MP's, if those ministers were to abstain, would they then get let off? Would Theresa May come under? What do you think is going to happen? Go on, take a punt. It's Friday. That's Thursday. Let's pretend it's Friday. I think you'll pass. I think you may pass. Yeah. Okay. Would you like it? Do I get that? Just because you. There you go. I was feeling bad. You looked a bit bruised when you came in. You felt you weren't getting the respect that you do genuinely deserve. So I'm glad we found a moment to clear that up. It almost gets filed under Mister Al, which is why you got yourself a little round of applause, very much. Don't. Don't hold your breath for a Ray Liotta. 1240 is the time. Hugo is in rugby. Hugo, question or answer? Hi. I'm not in rugby. I'm traveling around the country, but nonetheless, carry on. Hi. It's a privilege to talk to you, buddy. Likewise. My question is, why does the Queen has to bow to come into the City of London? I didn't know she did. When did you observe this? I basically, I was looking my. I like the news and things like that. Game form. So I was going through an interview done by a very known english political commentator, I'm not sure his name. Also a canadian teacher of economics. Oh, yeah. And he was saying that because the City of London is not within the jurisdiction of the United Kingdom, it's international. That's not true. But there might be a bit of truth in it. There might be something. So that you think. Have you ever seen the Queen bow before she enters the city? I actually have seen a video online, on YouTube on her doing that. To the Mayor of London. To the Lord Mayor of London. The Lord Mayor of London, or the mayor of the City of London? Yeah. No, the lord Mayor of the City of London, I believe. Something like that. So that's the question. Why does she have to bow down to go inside the City of London? That's my question. It's a good question. You're not on a horse, are you, Hugo? At the moment, no, I'm traveling. I'm a delivery driver for a multinational company. I thought I could hear the clippity cloppity of a horse's hooves in the back there. I must just. No, it's me flipping gears. It's my mind playing tricks on me? Hugo, we will try to get an answer for you. What a lovely question. Why does the Queen have to bow before she enters the City of London? We've done the speed question. Is it true that a Google search can take up as much electricity as boiling a kettle? Is there any evolutionary explanation for different, largely female body shapes? That question. I don't think we recognize the disparity in b shape for men. Done. The apple tree question. And why do you get a pain your leg when you're watching something particularly gruesome on television? If you can answer any of those, I'll give you the money myself. Stewart's in Woodgreen. Stuart, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got a question for you, mate. Carry on. I've got a cat, but you can't get pork flavored cat food. They seem to have, like, beef and chicken and fish. Yeah, but they don't do a pork one. I was wondering why that is. Yeah, is it halal or something like that? It's not going to be kind of a halal cat. It's not really my field. Not really my field of expertise. Yeah, all right. I would imagine that just commercially, that there hasn't been a need. There's not pork. It doesn't. Well, that's not. It's like a cheap meat, isn't it? Yeah, but you're gonna use it all for sausages, aren't you? You're not gonna need to use it for, uh, cat food. Other things are left over. I mean, pork more than anything else gets turned into offal, doesn't it? So you're more likely to. I mean, pork scratchings, sausages, bacon. I mean, I can't. I can't imagine there's enough left over for cat. It's probably that simple. I don't think there's any medical reasoning, but I know I like it. Well, I mean, have you ever tried. I mean, we better be careful here. Maybe there's a medical reason why cats can't eat pork. Well, I've been feeding him ham for a little while, so. Does he like it? Does he like. You want to be careful with that, though. It's very salty, mate. You want to be careful with the ham. I would have thought. Make sure there's plenty of water around. All right, you're on. Yeah. Why is there no pork flavored cat food? Zero. 345-606-0973 unless, of course, there is. It's just that Stuart and I have never encountered it. Joe's in Stockport. Joe. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. It's my first time phoning in as well. You're very welcome. You're better late than never. My question is, in a supermarket, when you're going down the vegetable aisle, why is it it's only mushrooms that have brown paper bags and the rest of the vegetables are all plastic bags? Moisture. Moisture, yeah, moisture. But with it, well, within the plastic bags, you still have the moisture scavenging the. The mushrooms. If you keep. Well, I mean, I don't know if this will work, whether I'll give myself a round of applause for this, but if you leave your mushrooms in a plastic bag, they go manky much quicker than they do in a paper bag. That's. That's the reason. But you may want a bit more science or something. Possibly. Possibly. Well, because I actually work in the plastics industry as well. Yeah. So I know. So I know that within different plastic packaging, like, for instance, with your. Even though it's not the plastic bags that you get on your vegetables, within different films, there's loads of different layers. Yeah, but not that you don't make any plastic that absorbs moisture, do you? Well, we don't ourselves, but there is plastic that's able to. But it'll cost more than paper. Yeah. Yeah. So unlike other fruit and vegetables or stuff in the aisle you describe, I appreciate. A mushroom is a fungi. Yeah. So are you, Joe. By the way, dad jokes galore today. So with something else, you don't want any moisture to leave the produce, right, because it becomes less fresh. But with mushrooms, you actually need the packaging to absorb some moisture, otherwise it becomes manky much more quickly. Now, that's just true. But I will allow you to demand a better answer if you want. No, I think I can accept that answer. Because if you had plastic bags that absorb the moisture, as you said, they'd be too expensive. That's why they wouldn't use them. So it will. Just as the mushrooms will get, to use a very technical term, they will get very manky if you keep them in a plastic bag. But if you keep them in a paper bag, the bag will get a tight will, absorbs just tiny, tiny amounts of moisture, but enough to prolong. To postpone the mankey stage of the mushroom. That is a bit too technical for me. Thank you. I think I can see where you're coming from there. Round of applause for me. Whereabouts in Stockport are you? I'm in heel green. I don't know heel green, actually. This wasn't the best. Wasn't the best bit of banter I've ever done. On the right. Or do I know heel green? It's just. It's near the airport. Oh, no, I don't. I go the other way. Usually when I speak to people from Stockport, I establish my mancunian suburb credentials by pointing out that it's the home of a pint of robinsons. Round of applause for me on both counts. Good man, Joe. Take it easy. 1247 is the time. Coming up at one on LBC. Sheila Fogarty. Robbery and knife crime are up and the proportion of overall crime solved has fallen to its lowest ever recorded level. Have police lost the streets? Sheila Fogarty on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is ten minutes to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is entering the home straight with these questions still in need of answers. Why can't you get pork cat food? A couple of suggestions. I've already answered that to the level of deserving a round of applause. But we'll leave it on the board for someone who knows for sure what they're talking about. Why do you get a pain in your body, your leg or your buttock or your foot when you're watching particularly violent scenes on television? Why does the Queen have to bow when she enters the city of London? Does a Google search really use up as much electricity as boiling a kettle? If not, where do you think that line has come from? It'll be a misunderstanding or a misinterpretation of something that is true. And do female body shapes, is there an evolutionary explanation for different female body shapes the caller used? Um. Did I not give myself a round of applause for the mushrooms in paper bag? I meant to. I definitely got that completely right. Karen's in Oxford. Karen, question or answer? Oh, hi. It's an answer, Jane. Carry on, Karen. It's about the queen having to bow before she enters the city of London. Yes. She doesn't. Where do you think Hugo might have got the idea that she does from? Well, I'm a guide in the City of London and. Oh, gosh, people get such a mishmash of traditions and legends and folklore and just misinformation, and it drives guides crazy because we're all nitpicky know it alls and. But no, she doesn't. The City of London has a lot of special status and special traditions and heritage, and it may be a garbling of the fact that within the City of London. So if you're in the square mile. Nobody takes precedence over the Lord Mayor except the sovereign. Ah. So if, for example, they had a dinner at Mansion House, the Lord now sits in the top seat and everybody sits beneath him in the pecking order, unless the Queen is there, in which case he moves one down and she would sit there. Does she not need special permission to enter the city? Officially? Not officially. There is a traditional ceremony, goes back to William the Conqueror. Yeah, well, William the Conqueror, we're not allowed to call him that in the city, are you not? Because he know he conquered all of England, but he did not conquer the city. But that's the point, isn't it? Yeah. So it has this special status, but it certainly falls under the jurisdiction of the government and the monarch. There's a traditional ceremony in very high state occasions, for example, after a coronation or something. If the city, if the queen is in her coach and she was coming to the City of London, she would stop at the boundary of the city, which is temple bar. The lord mayor would meet her there. She would touch the handle of the Lord mayor's sword, which he is presenting to her, and then that shows that she trusts him. There's not going to be any trouble. And then he will escort her into the city. But any bowing is going to be from the lord mayor to the queen, not the other way around. Queen bows to nobody. She may have done a quick curtsy before she became queen, but to, like, a foreign king, for example. But she would bow to no one. That's right. But you know, if, say, the president of the United States, if Donald Trump, or earlier presidents, if they were to visit a dinner at Mansion House, they would sit one down from the lord mayor, or Prince Charles would sit one down from the lord mayor. But the queen would take the top. She. I have an anxiety. I have an anxiety dream about. About this, because I do, when I get knighted, I don't want to bow. I certainly don't want to go down on one knee. And I think that means I might. I might have to turn down a knighthood again. Well, or she could just chop your head off. That might work better. Round of applause for Karen, please. Plenty of people pay to see that. Thank you, Karen. 1254 is the time. Hannah is in Newton Abbott. Hannah, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. It's the reason that they don't have pork flavored cat food. Cats only have 500 taste buds. Not really about taste cats. Same for dogs. They have 1700 taste buds. It's much more about aromas particularly with cats, it's about the temperature of the food. They prefer it at prey temperature. At what temperature? Prey. Prey temperature. Sorry. Yes, temperature. Also, how it feels inside their mouth. They're quite certain sensitive to those things as well, and how good it was for them after they've eaten it. So post ingestion, they can analyze how good that food was for them and whether they would go back to it. So they're just not mad about it. No, it's really, really not about taste at all. That's a real. It's an anthropomorphic thing. So we like to. And also, I suspect I was kind of onto something when I said that there's not. There's none left over with pork production because you can feed you. They even feed it back to the pigs, don't they, at some point? Yeah, they do. You can use pork proteins in some dog foods and in some cat foods, but when it comes to flavoring, actually, there doesn't have to be any of that ingredient in order for it to be a flavor for you to claim it on the packaging qualifications. Scientific communication manager for Royal Cannon, which is a dog and cat food company. Scientific communications manager for a cat food company. That's right. Well, come on. I am genuinely cat food. You get this, then. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. There can't be more than half a dozen. You build it. There aren't. There's a lot of self professed. Yeah, there always are. Just like my line of work. And everyone thinks they're an expert, but you're the real McCoy. Have a round of applause on me as well. Thanks, James. Thank you. One of the Ray Liotta alumni. We should have kept records of this. We should have sent out badges or something. Neil's in Sunderland. Neil. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, mate. It's the. The kick of the backside one when you feel a piano. Ah, yeah, go on. It's. It's a condition called mirror touch synesthesia. Is it? And pronounced that very well. Yeah, yeah. It's, um. Just basically, if you're watching some on the tv of some money, sort of like puts the hand on someone's shoulder and then you feel the same sort of sensation. It wasn't in the same place, though, that. The quake, because the lady who asked the question, I can't remember her name, but she'd be watching it with her mum. They'd be watching the same thing on the telly. She'd get a pain in her foot and her mum would get a pain in her buttock. Helena, it's just. It's just like how it affects you as an individual. Is it? I mean, have, like, the reason. I know, it's like, I have it. And that was about four or five years ago, watching things like you've been friend. I'm thinking, like, why do I always feel, like, uneasy when I watch these things on the tv? Okay. It's because you're the one getting swiped around the back of the head by a penguin or whatever. I mean, in the thighs, I guess, like a feeling. So. So Helena's right, and she's obviously got it from her mum. But. But, but most people don't have it. Yes, it's a rare condition. Mirror touch synaesthesia. Yeah. Synesthesia. Synesthesia. Mirror touch synesthesia, mate. That's a beautiful answer. Have a round of applause. No, good man. I like that a lot. Apple trees, pork, cat food. Pain in leg. Two word. Google search. Is it true Brian's in Bourne wood? Question or answer, Brian? That will be an answer. Bring it on. The. The Google search and the. The kettle boiling. You write earlier that it is a misconception, a misunderstanding on how things work. Because if you were the only person doing at that moment, no one else was online. Yes. At all, then, yeah, you know, boil a kettle all you like, because all the equipment along the way, they'll. They'll use the amount of energy that takes to boil a kettle. Right. Not a problem at all. Yes, but there's a few more than you doing a search at any one point in time. There's actually. Then you dilute it by. By millions and millions and millions. And you have to then dilute what you'd need on the qualification. It's a good story. It is a good story and it has a patina of truth to it. But. But not exactly. Not, not, not, not on further examination. What are your qualifications? I've been in the hosting industry for more than 20 years. I have enough about your social life. Oh, hosting, as in web hosting? Yes. You have a server farm in Denmark? Yes, I do. That sounds quite cool. Are you very, very, very rich and powerful? Are you a bond? Well, could you take over the world? Could you take over the world if you wanted to? Could you disrupt air traffic control? No. Make a couple of websites go down, make them banish from the surface of the web. I could do that, but don't want to. No, of course you don't. A round of applause for Brian, that's just the owner of a farm in Denmark. And finally, prataps in Islington. Question or answer, Pratap. It's an answer, James. It's the question about the mushrooms. And you were pretty much on the right track. Pretty much. Because. Yeah, pretty much. Pretty much. Mushrooms actually breathe. So they breathe carbon dioxide. Sorry? They breathe oxygen and release carbon dioxide. So if they're in plastic packaging, there's no way for that carbon dioxide to go. So the moisture is not present when they're bought. They actually produce moisture themselves. That needs to be. Exactly. And then if the carbon dioxide stays in the bag and then it just ends up rotting and killing the mushrooms off. Beautiful answer. I shall share my round of applause with you. Qualifications. Well done. That's it for me for another day and another week. Actually, I am. I am off tomorrow and I haven't been told who's standing in for me, so that will be a lovely, lovely. David Lammy will be standing in for me tomorrow. See how we work. We like a well oiled machine on this program. David Lammy will be with you tomorrow morning from 10:00 I will be back on Monday. And here is Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. MP's aiming to stop. No deal. Brexit are playing another hand in the Commons as we speak. You'll hear if they've succeeded. After 130. There are thereabouts. We'll bring it to you. A sitting american president at his first re election rally has stoked up racial, political and personal hatred against another elected politician. Have a listen. Send her back, is what they're saying. Why has he done this? Well, because he can. Why can he? Because too few people are prepared to do anything about it. And why do people, including people called Jeremy Hunt, our own foreign secretary, why do they balk at calling that racist behavior? Crimes up, crimes solved down. Have the police lost the streets? On your radio, on global player and play. LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.