What crisp flavour is ?cool orginal??

Mystery hour with James O'Brien three minutes after twelve is a time. Last word, I promise you, on Brexit, because this is fascinating and you may have missed it. I think it's in the Financial Times. From the acting CEO of the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise in Oslo, which I presume, although I could be wrong, I stress that I presume it's their equivalent of the CBI and it effectively says that Norway is not going to be Norway. In the context of European Union futures, the European Economic Area has served Norway well. It ensures our company's full participation in the EU single market because we take on all relevant legislation. We would definitely welcome the UK's continued participation in the single market. But would you be ready to go from being a rule maker to being a rule taker? I appreciate the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprises acting CEO probably doesn't know as much about what it's like to do business in Norway as Andrew Bridgent and Nadine Dorrie's do, but I think just out of politeness, we should probably read this little letter to the end. Would you be ready to go from being a rule maker to being a rule taker? Entering into the EEA means accepting these obligations. It is a balanced agreement with rights and duties. If any EEA EFTA states do not fulfil their obligations, parts of the agreement may be suspended and the other EFTA states, like Norway, would suffer. So this is Norway saying, you can't be like us, we don't trust you. I think I've got this right. I mean, it literally has just popped in front of me now and I'm doing it on the hoof. But reading the words and knowing what words mean, they're saying, you can't be like Norway, you can't have the deal we've got because we don't trust you. And if you mess it up, we'll get punished. That's why, continues Ole Eric Almlied. That's why we suggest that Britain should have a separate EEA agreement, a third pillar. It could be a blueprint of the existing agreement and therefore an off the shelf solution acceptable to the EU. They can have an EEA agreement, but they can't be part of the EEA because the other members of the EEA don't trust us anymore. Well done, everyone. Anyone ready for mystery hour? I know what you're thinking. It's the third mystery hour of the day today, given that the first two were dead, but the first two were dedicated to a single mystery. Today, there is limitless mystery waiting to be solved. I haven't even told you how it is. The way it works is this. You have bubbling away in the back of your brain somewhere, a question to which you do not currently know the answer. You are, however, persuaded that there must be an answer available. You could probably find it if you spent ten minutes tip tapping away on a search engine. But mystery hour is dedicated to the days before search engines. It's dedicated to the days of education and illumination, enlightenment and sharing of knowledge. Something that is going to change during our years. If management don't come to their senses and I continue blathering to you for another few years, then this is going to be one of the things that we will be watching change. It's another frog boiling moment. We don't need knowledge anymore, my children. I bring up probably in a way that is a little bit old fashioned, because they don't need to know stuff like we did dates. I can google it and Google everything. It's all in front of us. So mystery Hour is a little bit, I suppose it's my tribute to the Gammon Liberation front. It's me pretending that that change isn't happening and that modernity has never occurred. It's a celebration and at the same time a commemoration of the days before search engines. So when you ring in to answer somebody else's question, I'll ask you what your qualifications are. You're not allowed to look anything up and you'll tell me, and it might be something that you've studied or something that you've read or something that you've seen on the goggle box or something that you've just picked up on your travels occasionally, because my memory is not what it should be. Occasionally, when I say, how do you know that? You might say, well, I heard it on mystery hour three years ago and I'll go, good answer. So that's how it works. Anything goes. You can ask me something really serious and scientific, or you can ask me something really unserious and silly. They're all welcome. The only things that we don't like are boredom, as in repetition, both boredom being a question that probably you will be the only person interested in. The answer. And repetition is fairly straightforward, although that job falls to me now. Sandra, Beth and Ivan have only been on the show for ten minutes, in the great scheme of things, so it is. It falls to me to spot the repetition. And as I've just conceded, my memory isn't really what it should have. So full of Brexit detail. See, all the knowledge I pull out of the Brexit box has created. The box has grown so big, it's squeezed out all my mystery, our knowledge, or a lot of it. Shall we crack on and get me to be quiet? Yeah. Mike's in high Wickham. Mike, question or answer? Good morning, James. Question. Please carry on. Scrabble in foreign languages. Yeah. I was in Poland at the weekend and me and my wife saw a billboard advertising a Scrabble game. Yes. Which got us talking about, well, how do they know how many Zeds and Y's to put in? Because every. Every other polish word ends in Y. Every third word's got a z in it. There's a preponderance of w's as well. I mean, even in my favorite brand of vodka, there's two w's. I'd feel a bit cheated if my opponent was getting ten points for every z laden Polish. And there's only one z in the. In the english set. I think I know what your question's going to be. And I think we both know what the answer is already. But that hasn't detracted from my enjoyment of your core one jot. Go on, Mike. So, how do they sort it out for each? And as your researchers point out, it's not just polish. I mean, you go to Hungarian, Turkish, there'd be an algorithm, it'll be a calculation about the incidences of letters in the whole of a dictionary. Which. How do they sort it out? And if the guy from the games company rings in to tell you. Yeah, I will give him a Rayleigh. I think he's due a ray. No, I will. I will scrabble. Oh, God. I did Google that a little while ago. Did you? I can tell you who produces it now. Yeah, all right, go on. So it's not quite as impressive. I should look up who produces it now. Is it Spears games or is it Waddington's? Or begins with m, ends in l. And it sounds like. I don't know, something. Iron or steel? Metal. Mattel. Mattel. That's the opposite of metal. That's swapping around the vowels. I'm never going to play. I'm never going to play Scrabble with you, Mike. Not even in polish. Can we get him an answer? How do they calculate the letter? So, when I said I thought we'd both know the answer, I thought he was going to say, do they have different allocations of letters in different countries? To which I would have responded by going, duh, of course they do. But your question was much cleverer than that. Your question is, how do they actually calculate it? Which I presume means counting all the words and dividing it by the uses of. By the uses of the letters. Do you know who really loves Scrabble? Actually, get Mike back. He likes trivia. Mike, do you know who really loves Scrabble? Go on. Taylor Swift. Really? Yeah, loves it, mate. Absolutely mad for it. Well, I'll give her a gang. Well, if you. If you get hold of Taylor Swift on the phone, get me on a conference call, will you? Because I think. I think the woman is absolutely magnificent. And if you think that this is me desperately trying to cling on to my youth, you're completely wrong. This is me remembering my youth and wishing that there were female pop stars like Taylor Swift around during it. Mike. Thank you. 1210 time. Question or answer? Foreign Scrabble or all Scrabble, actually. How do they work out how many letters to how many tiles of each letter to have and how much each letter is worth? I love that question. Patrick is in Acton. Patrick, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Patrick. It's around crowd numbers for things like protests and what have you. And I just want to know who estimates the number of people on a march or whatever it is and how do they do it. So, obviously not for ticketed events and all that sort of stuff, but for anything kind of non ticketed. It's the police that do the estimate. But how they do it remains a good question, doesn't it? And I'm only 80% sure it's the police. I just can't think who else it would be. If it's Donald Trump's inauguration, then Donald Trump counts the people there by using his tiny little fingers and then adding whatever number he ends up with after counting them, he adds two zeros to the end of it. But you want to know about british crowds. Yes, yes, yes. I'm going to get you an answer. I'm sniggering because I don't know if in jokes work on the right. Do you know why the Earl of Dartmouth is a key player on this radio program, Patrick? Yes, it is something to do with him, reputedly, although you made it up, apparently, about him inventing darts. Yeah, someone's just said everyone knows that Scrabble was invented by the Earl of Scrabblemouth, so kudos to Elijah from Camberwell, although that is not necessarily a joke that everybody listening to the program is going to get. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time. I'm incorrigible, is being hilarious, as always on Twitter, he says, I hope someone calls in with the question, what will the country be like in ten or 15 years after Brexit? I'm sure we'd all like to hear the answer to that one. Glutton for punishment. Thank you, Patrick. Nicole is in swiss cottage. Nicole, question or answer? Question, please. Hi, James. Hello, Nicole. Nice to speak to you. Likewise. It's about dogs, something completely different, something to cheer us up at the moment. I was wondering, we had a couple of dogs, and you meet many dogs in the park, and some dogs, when you talk to them, they sort of, you know, stupid baby talk, like, oh, boy, come here. They tilt their hat and look at you all cutie. And they always do that to one side. Yes. Why do some dogs do it and others don't do it? And, you know, it's a mixture. Some breed. It's the same with humans. I know this. It's the same as with humans. The ones who tilt their head to one side are just listening more closely to what you're saying. But why do they do that? Do they do that to. It's gone over your head completely. I thought that was quite a funny gag. Not as funny as my David Davis material yesterday, but still, I thought the idea of a dog concentrates. Yeah. And is it only something. Dogs. Yeah, exactly. And I think it doesn't have to what breed it is or whatever it is. But I always wondered, why do they do that? We do have a roy. We do have dog behavioralist royalty. Now, who listens to the poker? Do you? Yes, we do. But whether or not he's listening today, I'm not going to big him up. I'm going to wait and see if he rings in for. He's usually in Germany, isn't he? He's usually in Berlin. Doctor dog. I think he's trying to carve himself out a little professor Hal shaped niche. But obviously, we don't get as many questions about dogs behavior as we do about science in general. But I hope he. Hope he's listening today. He might be out training dogs. And you're confident that some dogs don't tilt their head to one side and others do? Yeah. You know, I looked at it for years. I've been thinking about it from time to time, studying it, and I just don't get why. Just would like to know, you know, on a lighter. I like it. Nicole, also, I think you're. No, no, you're not. I was going to say you were the first female voice that we'd heard today, but that's not true. I don't know why I care about these things. It's because I'm committed to diversity, you see. Thank you, Nicole. Jonathan is in West Norwood. Jonathan, or answer? Answer, I hope. Carry on. It's about the scrabble question, so I'm not sure this is the right answer, but I'm going to give you an example of how I use, or how I use Scrabble scoring in my work, and hopefully this will explain it. So, the scoring of Scrabble is based on what's called word entropy, which is, in effect, how often a letter appears in the Alphabet. It was devised by some monks about 900 years ago who literally counted the letters of the Bible to see if there were any hidden meanings. Scrabble was invented by monks 900 years ago? No, no. The concept of word entropy, of how you can. How the scoring came about. So monks counted all letters in the Bible to look for hidden meanings, and then later, certain letters appeared more than others. Yes. From that you can, yeah. And the same thing applies for every single language in the world. Certain letters appear more than others. Of course, what you can do with that is you can then score those exactly as you do in Scrabble. So the ones that appear least often score higher, the ones that more statistical less. But you can use this main word, entropy, which allows you to use that for finding particular bits of information in sentences. So, let me give an example of what the old Bailey did. The old Bailey digitized all of their court cases, going about hundreds of years to basically take all the transcripts of all the court cases, digitized them, and some data scientists got really excited about this because I thought, well, we can look at the changing nature of crime over years. So I'm going to give you five words from a court case, from the 17 hundreds, and I'd like to tell me what that court case was about. And it's it and. Or he. Then obviously, you can tell nothing from that court case. But if I gave you these five words, murder, cosh, robbery, purse. Yeah, whatever, you would be able to identify that that court case was probably about a murder. Yeah. And a robbery. And a robbery. Yeah. So certain words have a bit more information in them. And actually what you can use, you can use the scrabble scoring. So, you know, you take a Zed that scores ten a year, scores one, and you can pick out key bits of information in what people say. For example, I could analyze all the words you've said in your show today, score every single word you've said according to the scrabble scoring and those words that score highly are the words that you use. I'm just going to pause you there and say two things. The first thing I'm going to say is I am absolutely fascinated by what you're telling me. The second thing is, I'm not sure what it's got to do with the question that you rang in to answer yet. Oh. Oh, well, I am really interested, but I might do that as an hour. I might do an hour as we all get buried under the bombardment of brexit bonkersness. I might just say give and tell me something interesting. But that's not what I did today, Jonathan. Yeah, well, I am really interested. I don't want you to go away feeling bad. But you know, there's a lot of people listening to mystery, Aaron, and you're not actually answering a question that, are you? Sorry. How do they do polar? How do they allocate the points and the number of letters in Polish Scrabble, for example. They have, I believe, three different types of Zed, for example. Yes, they have a normal Zed like ours said. They have a Zed with a little bit on the top and a Z with a. I think you're being too polite. I think you have answered the question and I'm too sick to realize. Oh, because the answer to the question is word entropy. That's the answer. Yeah, give them a round. Qualifications? Data analyst. I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I have a very high opinion of myself, as a few people have noticed in the past. But occasionally I do have to admit I don't understand a lot of what you've told me, but I think you've probably answered the question. Check out a lady. Check out a lady called Doctor Hannah Fry. Doctor Hannah Fry. I'm going to. I love words and well, she's done a great program called the Joy of data. I know that sounds really rubbish. Why is it that intelligent, informed, knowledgeable people are always apologizing for stepping up to the lectern, whereas really thick, ignorant people are always grabbing the microphone off them, pushing them out the way and saying things like, I think the country's had enough of experts. It's 1218. This is Elba murder mysteries at 08:00 p.m. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. That was quite an abrupt end to the boom, boom, boom there. What happened? Do we get cut off in our prime or are we just trying to manufacture a little extra time for mystery hour by shaving seconds. This is what they used to do to coins in medieval times, you know. It was called clipping, particularly under the protectorate of Thomas Seymour. After Henry VIII died, coinage became incredibly debased, not just by clipping, but also by the fact that he kept reminting coins with less and less valuable metal in them. That's why you tune into this program. It's not just me feeling intellectually insecure after the last call, I said lots of stuff I didn't understand, and now I'm desperately trying to claw back a little bit of academic credibility by dropping in some relatively and completely irrelevant medieval historical trivia that I didn't even get from a history book. I got it from CJ Hansen, Sansom's latest historical novel, which is a bit brilliant. Martin's in Eastbourne. Martin, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. I've got a question. When a building gets demolished, are you on a submarine? No, the sonar. Sonar pinging in the background. What's that about? Oh, it's my hazard light. Oh, is it? Oh, should have just said, yeah, I'm in a submarine. You'd probably got a Rayleigh otter. Anyway, carry on now. But when a substantial building gets. What happens to the truckloads and truckloads of rubble? Rubble in general, I mean, because we did last week. We did. What happens to the rubble that comes from, like, a massive engineering project, like crossrail. And there are. That's all right. I mean, when they dug out St Catherine's dock down by Tower bridge, they used all of the rubble from there to put it on the marshland in what is Pimlico, and it made Pimlico habitable. And then there's some weird hills on the m four going out of town, which are the rubble that was brought from Wembley. So, I mean, if it's massive, then there'll be a specific answer to your question, but if it's just one building, I don't know, really, there'll be. What do they do with rubble? Yeah, all right, I'll see what I can do. My mate said they dump it all in the sea, which is low. It seems unlikely to me. A time of rising sea levels. What's your mate's name? Let's shame him on air. I don't know. Boris, I think. Get away. 22 minutes after twelve is the time. So we've got scrabble crowds, dogs and rubble. But we think that we've answered the Scrabble. Well, we kind of answered the Scrabble question with word entropy, despite the fact that none of us actually know what it means. How do they calculate the estimated size of a crowd? Why do some dogs tilt their head when you're talking to them? And what happens to rubble after a building, for example, has been demolished? And I need a general answer, not a specific one. We've done lots of specific ones. For example, ones I just gave you, the St Catherine's dock and Wembley Stadium rubble. Ken's in Redbourne. Ken. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why do all passports have the photo page, which is the only bit? Anything, any page that's ever looked at, buried inside it, rather than being on the front, so that you could move through customs much faster. Aren't they on the back cover? No, they're inside. You have to open each passport and hold it open at a page for the. Whereas if it was on the inside of the COVID it would be easier to open it and pass it through. Yeah. I mean. I mean, traditionally, I can imagine, passports had, you know, like seals and crests on them. And when there were pictures, obviously pictures could be damaged if they weren't inside a book. That would close. Yeah. But with modern technology, the front cover could show the bit that's scanned and the picture. I think you might be overestimating the passport technology industry. Don't forget, we've just voted to leave the European Union just so that we can have blue ones. The idea that we would have moved, we would have moved with, which we could, of course, already have had. There's nothing to stop us having blue passports under European Union rules. But the idea that they would completely revolutionize the design of a passport to keep up with changing technology, you get something like biometric, but the placing of the photograph, wouldn't they just say, if it ain't broke, don't fix it? Well, every time I've ever been at an airport or going through customs and there's been large crowds or we're all late, or the planes, you know, everyone sort of rushing, but they have to see it, they have to take it off you to look at it. So it doesn't. Well, they. Well, yeah, but people start shouting down the road to say, can everyone have the passport open at the page, ready, that kind of stuff? Yeah, I put it on the board. I don't know if it's quite there, people moving. I mean, I know there are worlds standard, I know that the whole EU passport thing is a nonsense because they're actually based on a US standard. Yeah, but I just wonder why. Why they traditionally still have the actual only pages ever examined hidden inside and not just ready to be presented in one. No, I understand the question. Just repeating it in a slightly different order isn't going to make it more interesting. It sometimes does. Yeah, he's got a point. I've built a career out of it. There's 25 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, Cannon, passports. We got rubble, we got dogs, we got crowds and we got a nickel. Bit of Scrabble. Jake's in Peterborough. Jake, question or answer? Hi, I've got a question, please. James, carry on. Hi. Thanks for having me on. You're very welcome. How polite. Thank you. So, basically, I was just wondering why sort of the music in horror films, particularly when you get, like, a really low frequency sort of drone, why that works so well? It's sort of creating, like, a sense of dread within the film. I mean, I've learned recently that certain films, I think paranormal activity is one of them, they put this frequency in and sometimes it's not even hearable with the human ear, but it works to create this sort of sense of impending doom. I'm thinking, most obviously, of the jaws music. Am I or not? Am I misunderstood? Yeah, that's that sort of thing. Yeah. But even when it can just be sort of like, literally just like a hum, like really low, sort of sort of like a. I never thought I'd be on the phone singing the jewels theme team. You must have thought you were in with a chance when you rang. This bit of the program, mate. Stranger things have happened. What? So the question is, why does low frequency music scare us? Yeah. Yeah. All right. I wonder if David Arnold is listening. He's done quite a lot of film scores and has phoned into mystery how before he'll probably know. And it makes. I wonder if it's linked to fingernails on blackboard. I wonder if there's a kind of evolution, what would it be? It could be the sounds of big, really big animals coming towards us back in the. I'm going back to the lizard brain, you know, like a mammoth's feet. Yeah, because, I mean, some seats, certain scenes. I mean, it could even just be kind of like, not even. Not even sort of an impending dread scene. It could just be, for example, just like a family packing a car to go on holiday, but you could just have, like, a low drone on that and you know that they know they're going to get stopped in the woods by some. Some sort of outcast from delivery. Exactly. Yeah. But then that music's not scared, that's really scary. But only because of that film. Whereas the. We should do a mashup, mate. Yeah, yeah, definitely. Yeah. I mean, I'm into that business, so I might. You're in the. I see. So you want to know why, despite working in the field of musical kind of stuff? Yeah. Good man. 27 after twelve. Paul's in Dartford. Sorry, Paul, question or answer? Carry on, mate. It's about the rubble. Where does it go? Where does it go? It goes back into construction project. So it get taken away from a big demolition site in these big eight wheelers, lorries taken to a yard somewhere, put through a crushing machine, and then it will go back into a construction project, you know, as what we call type one, which is crushed concrete. Right. Perfect. And I mean, if there is such an epic amount of it, as in building Wembley stadium or digging out St Catherine's dock, then they'll probably build a hill or turn some marshland into. But your normal commoner garden rubble. Crush the stuff up and then build it again. I quite like that. It's the first, like the original recycling. Reuse it. Yeah. It's actually a valuable commodity. It's not, you know, you wouldn't be wanting to landfill that because there's a big demand for it to be reused. Oh, that's great. What are your qualifications, Paul? Qualifications, Paul? Paul? Oh, no. Get Paul back quick. That's why we don't normally take hands free calls. But I want to get him back because I. If he's one of those blokes that blows up buildings, I'm going to ask him if I can have a go. All right? Anyone that watch children's television who's ever. Who's ever blown up a building? I did. I need to just. I know you shouldn't do this. It's called breaking the fourth wall. But for the second day running while I've been live on the radio, Chris Moyles has come into the production booth and pretended that he's talking to me on the telephone by using a banana. And I do. Normally I can rise above such boyish banter, but on this occasion I do find myself somewhat distracted by the sight of Chris Moore talking very seriously into a banana at the moment. Just put. Put me. It's nothing, mate. You carry on. It's all right. I'm just going to have a quick word with. Have we got Paul back? Is Paul back? Paul, what are your qualifications? What are your qualifications? I've worked closely with the demolition industry for the last 30 years. But you don't actually push the plunger down yourself. I don't do it, no. Do they still use plungers? Do they still use plungers? If they do what they call a blow down, yeah. Could you put a word in for me? Do I need qualifications? Just to be the one you remember on blue Peter when it. Oh, crikey, we can't talk about that anymore. But a well known children's entertainment program where children's dreams would come true thanks to the intervention of a massive pervert. Do they still? One of my all time favorites was the t bar on the push it down. Wouldn't it be great, though? Wouldn't it be great to press that button? It would be the business. I sense from your wistful tone that you're not going to be able to help me get a go on one. I think I'd probably put myself in front. I give you 3 hours a day of free entertainment and you're putting yourself in front of me in the queue for a go on the plunger? Round of applause for Paul. 12:30 Lisa Aziz is here now with the headlines. The chancellor's open. The theories and the facts. It's 1235. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Who? Not who. I think I know who. I think it's the police. But how do they estimate crowd size numbers? So the biggest march I've been on, I did the stop the war march in Glasgow, despite being in favour of the war at the time. There you go, see? Ian Daler. You must have a look at that podcast. Ian Daler. It's gone down rather well, I don't think. Possibly people need a reminder that someone who's right about Brexit, me and someone who's wrong, Ian, can actually have a perfectly civilized and friendly conversation together, as long as we don't talk about Brexit. Set the bit when he told me why David Davis's Twitter feed is full of absolute nonsense. That was a scoop. But it's rather nice. And he did ask me in it, have you ever been wrong? Are you ever wrong about anything? And I was wrong about the Iraq war. The thing is, now I start doing caveats and saying that if there'd been a proper plan, I still think you could justify the decision to get rid of Saddam Hussein, but there wasn't a proper plan, so we shouldn't have supported it and there were no weapons of mass destruction. So I went on that march, but I went on it in Glasgow. So I think the biggest march I've ever been on was the remain march last month, 700,000 people, they estimated. Now, I could only ever see. I know from a helicopter and stuff like that, you'd get a better view, but you can only ever see the armpits, the people immediately around you. Depending on your height, you might be confined to their buttocks, but someone makes a punt at numbers, and then everyone complains. People who hate the truth claim that there was nowhere near that money there, that number there, and people who are. I don't know, still a little bit baffled as to why 60 million people didn't turn out for a march to stop Brexit. Because they're all going to suffer. They'll think that there was much more than 700,000. So the police make an estimate. How do they do it? Zero. 345-606-0973 Gareth is in Birmingham. Question or answer, Gareth? It's a question that I'm gauged because I can answer two of the questions that you've got on the board. Unlucky. It is really unlucky. I'm going to gauge, by the intelligence of your question. I'm going to gauge how likely it is that you can actually answer two of the other questions on the board. Now. I'm asking this on my girlfriend's behalf. She's already backtracking. Already. Already backpedaling. Carry on. Okay. Okay. Well, so, basically, I've given her the Occam's razor answer, and she won't accept it. So her question is, why do cars. Car windows frost and freeze up more than home windows? I've given the answer of, well, you've got central heating and you've got bodies and there's heat inside and. But she won't accept it. She won't accept it. That's. Mate, this is. That. That's not a mystery issue. That's a relationship counselling issue. But I'm thinking that there might actually be something in terms of conductivity, heat conductivity, in terms of the metal of a car as well, and maybe volume of air, too. I would like. Are you suggesting there might be more air outside a car than there is outside a house? No, I'm suggesting that the volume of air within a house, obviously, is far larger than the volume of air within the car. And volume, so is the heating element. So are the things that we use to heat up the air. I think you've gone definitive on this, but, I mean, do you want me to put. Put it on the. On the board and just in the hope that someone can add to it? Because I think the answer is as simple as you said. The car windows would never freeze up if we were always in the car and the car was always running. So, house windows. Well, hang on. Do house windows ever? Yeah. You do get condensation on the inside of you. Get a little bit. You do get a little bit. But also, James, I finished the song how's to be right and where I've gone wrong. Have you? Yeah. And so we're recording it in January. I'm hoping to get it in time for the paperback. Well, mate, I'll tell you what. I'll play it live on the radio if it's half decent. Don't put any rude words in it. No, no, I'll send you that. I'll send you the lyrics. I'll send you the lyrics today. Good man. Do it. Nice one. So your question really is a bit rubbish, because you were just using it as a way to smuggle in your. No, no, no. Your musical accomplishments. No, no, no. I'm getting brownie points with the girlfriend. All right, well, we'll find out why the car windows freeze up so much more than house windows. And does it have. Is there any answer that is a little more sophisticated or nuanced than just central heating in it? Well played, Gareth. I look forward to getting your musical efforts. 1230, 1239 is the time. Nathan is in Chingford. Nathan. Question or answer? Question is, carry on, Nathan. I bought my son a bag of crisps the other day, and he said it was his favorite flavour. So I said, oh, what flavor is it? And he goes, I'm not quite sure. It says it's called original. The Doritos call original flavor. Yeah. And then we were talking while we were in the car, I said, well, what flavor are they? And we both were eating them, and I couldn't work out what actually the flavor is. And I was trying to think, also, in crisps in general, all crisps have a flavor or a taste name to them, whether they're spicy, barbecue, salt, vinegar and so forth. Yeah, but these ones are just called cool original. Yeah. And on the back of the packet, because I've got a packet here, this is a detailed question. It's cool, original flavor. Right. And there is further down the list, it does say there's cheese powder. So there is probably a slight cheesiness to them. But they're not cheesy crisps. They are quite cheesy. Plain. Plain Doritos are quite cheesy. There'll be whey powder there as well. Is there whey powder there? Whe whey. No. What? Check again. This is award winning radio. Yeah. Milk. Salt. Glucose. Milk. Milk. So it's dried milk. So it's whey powder. Yeah, milk. Okay, so what's the question? I mean, cool original, it's a Dorito. It's. I mean, it's just. It's just made in a laboratory. Well, it's cool, original flavor, Nathan. But original would be like salt and vinegar, wouldn't it? So like, they do a nice cool, original. It's like the first Doritos they ever made with that flavor before they went on to tangy cheese. They are a bit cheesy, but when there was only one flavor, the selling point, the USP of Doritos, was not the flavor of the Dorito, but the Dorito ness of the Doritos. So when they first started selling Doritos, it was your first mass produced tortilla based snack that went on the market. So it was just called a Dorito. And then when they brought up mate, I am lecturing you on this because I know. How dare you interrupt me? There were tortillas before Doritos. Yeah, but they weren't Doritos before Doritos. But you don't get a walkers flavored crisp. That was not a specific flavor. You could quite easily have called ready salted original. In fact, I bet you I can find some crisp somewhere in the world that already salted and are called original. So your Doritos originally was your Dorito flavor before they released any other flavors. But what is that flavor? Cool original must have a flavor. It does. It does. It's cool original. That's not flavor, though, is it? Well, excuse me, what does it say on the packet? Cool original flavor. Yeah, there you go. It's a flavor. Yeah, but you give it. You call it bungle, couldn't you? Yeah, but that would be that. But no one would buy them. Cool original sounds cool. But also originally you get hot and spicy because that gives you the hot and spicy. Yeah, well, cool is not hot, so it's not hot. But it is. That's why they put cool on it, because it's a mexican snack in origin. So people with a slightly cowardly palate might be a little bit frightened of a mexican based snack because they think it will be hot and spicy. So they've put cool on the packet so that people who don't like spicy food will go, oh, cool, I'll have some of that. And then they'll taste it and they'll taste it and they'll go, oh, how original. Therefore it's called cool original. Do you think it's like sour cream and guacamole style flavor? Yeah. No. No guacamole. No. No good. No, don't bring avocados into it, mate. We're not millennials. There is simply a flavor which was less important than the actual snack because the snack was the thing that they. That was original. It was a dorito, and the flavor was cool because a lot of people said, oh, when I tasted that, I thought it was going to be spicy because it looks like a tortilla chip. So the marketing people said, oh, we must put something on the packet. What's the opposite of hot, Nathan? What's the opposite of hot? Cold. And if you didn't want to say cold original because that looks silly, you would say, what? Yeah, cold beer. Vinegar wouldn't be. Would be cool because they're not spicy. No, but that tastes of salt and vinegar. I'm not having it. What are you not having? It has a flavor? Yes. I mean, I think it may be pizza based. I mean, you're going mexican. I think it's probably. It's got herbie, it's got herbs to. It's got maybe garlic to it. Yeah. It's more complex. Cool. But also original. Yeah, originally cool. What would you call it if you were in charge, Nathan? Well, see, I think it's more pizza place pizza, margarita pizza y in America, I think it's called ranch flavor. That doesn't help us, does it? No, that's. That's the red. That's like, um, a tomato, isn't it? Ranch sauce. You could put on a salsary stuff, isn't it? Really hungry. You know, I ate loads of Doritos last night, but I don't think they were cool. It's cool. Original. The blue packet. Yes, the blue packet. What's the yellow pack? Had yellow doritos, but they weren't that. No, they weren't tangy cheese. They were. Is there one below cool, original, like even planer? Yeah, there's a lot. Yeah. Lightly salted. What, what, what, um, color is that packet? That's like a creamy. Creamy black, if I'm remembering. I can't remember. Tell you what, Nathan, if we don't. If I don't get sent a massive box of Doritos after this, of which I will send you at least a packet, then there's no justice in this one family bag. I'm hoping be cool. I am super cool. I'll be original. That's time for everything. If anyone can answer this question. I'll give them the crisps myself. Coming up, 1248 is the time. Let's crack on. We've spent rather more time on the Dorito question than perhaps we should have done. But thank you for all the expressions of enjoyment. Quick one from Vince, who's in Winchester. He says, how come someone from kiddie says ranch and not ranch? Answer is tens of thousands of pounds in school fees, my friend. And that's all they got in return. Christoph is in Wembley Park. Christoph, what would you like to say? Question or answer? Well, it's a bit of a stewed inquiry, but it's only a very slight one, because the data analyst was giving you quite a lengthy essay on word entropy in answer to how they allocate points and tiles in scrapbook. That's right. And I think, by rights, in his essay, the sort of scrabble question would probably warrant him not much more than a footnote. And I think that footnote should have mentioned the phrase n grams. That's capital n g r a m. Okay, now, n grams are basically, it's a collection of statistics about the frequency of different letter uses in a language. Perfect. So it'll tell you the frequency of how often. No, you've done it. The answer is n grams. Yeah, yeah. How do they work it out? They use n grams. James, what are n grams? Well, they're calculations based upon the frequency of letter usage in any given language. Precisely. Qualifications? I've got a maths degree and I work in the field of information security, where ngrams are used in code breaking, cryptography. So you want to break a code, you've got a whole load of jumbled up letters. You look at how often certain letters occur and you think, oh, maybe those letters mean the actual. You know, how many? Yeah. No, I love it, I love it, I love it. How many points do you get for a z in polish scrabble? Do you know I'm polish, but I haven't a clue. I never played Polish. Probably zero. Probably zero. One. At least. You wouldn't get many, would you? Or certainly not. For a double like vowels in this country. I'm going to give you a lovely round of applause. Thank you. Crystal. Neil's in Chesham. Question or answer, Neil? Question an answer, mate. Carry on. Estimating the numbers involved in demonstrations, marches and that kind of thing. Did you used to do it? Yeah. Yeah. Did you? A long time ago. But I can't imagine it's changed very much. Were you a copper at the time? Yes. You know, the minute you started talking, I knew you were a copper. That's. I'm getting my tuning in on this. I'll tell you what, if any, if I'm ever committing a massive crime and someone goes undercover, my radar is going to be like you wouldn't believe. It's going to start beeping before you've even opened your mouth. Carry on, copper. Right. You run for a march. You have a fixed point. You measure the number of people that go past that point at a given time, and then you work out the time it takes for all of them to get past and multiply the two together so it's quite reliable. And go past in a minute. Yeah. Well, no, not particularly. It's entirely based on how good the copper canton at that point. Oh, it's human. Human counting. It's not a special miss. So you have a clicker in your hand, will you, or something like that. Yeah. Or simply just count. When did you retire? When did you retire? Five years ago. Oh, okay. Because I was going to say, surely since the invention of computers that had come up with a better idea, you imagine there might be a more technological solution, but that is it. No fixed point counting manually. If you've got a. If you've got a fixed demonstration in an area, then you take an image with a grid over it. You count the number of people in one square and multiply by the number. The number of squares. Beautiful answer. No n grams or anything. Very clever. It is all clever. How many people did that when you were doing it? Roughly how many people in the Met would be employed in this sort of crowd counting field? Couple of dozen, it would depend. Different people do in different times. So I worked in the public order branch, so I did it more than. What's the biggest crowd you ever counted? 75,000. Where was that? It was a kurdish homeland demonstration, Trafalgar Square. I'm going to give you a rally, and I don't care if people think you don't deserve it because you're really interesting. And that is. That's such. I just love that answer. Gone. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Congratulations, Neil. Deeply honored. James. And I have a round of applause as well. Thing, the beauty when that happens, I mean, you can't argue with that. How do you know how they police count crowds? Because I used to be a police crowd counter. And two, couple of dozen, that's fine. Say a couple of thousand. No chance. Vieri is. Ah, vieri in Roma. Doctor dog is here. Buenos Aires. Come on, start. I don't know. Question or answer in Italian. So can we stop this now before I sound even more like a second rate Alan partridge tributary. Question or answer vieri. Well, guess. I know, I know, but you've got to go through the motions. Not even Professor Halgett special treatment just because this is your third or fourth time. Question or answer, doctor dog. It's an answer Jane. Carry on. It's the dog tilting its head. Yes. When you talk to it. Question yes. Yes. Now the reason is, think about this. We talk on average about 100 times a day with our dog. Yes. Right. I mean, incredible amount of words. So what dogs are actually doing by tilting their head and they are picking up certain words, keywords like orkies, like food or treat or ball or play or park or. Let's go. Don't ring me to complain. Hang on. Don't ring me to complain. If Vieri has just set your dog off by saying these words live on the radio while the dog, the dog was trying to have a quiet lie down in the corner and now you've said walkie's live on the radio. Down. Down boy, down. Sorry. Carry on Vieri. Remember, remember her in the eighties? Barbara Woodhouse, walkies. So that it helps them concentrate more. It's like a human being sticking their tongue out a bit. Yeah, they're filtering. That's, that's what they're doing. On the one hand. On the other hand, dogs are seeking attention from us all the time. And because we give them attention when they tilt their head, because we find them so incredibly cute, what we're actually doing is positively reinforcing their behavior. So the more they do it, the more we look at them or how cute you are and the more they'll do it. So in fact, you can teach any dog to do it, a learned behavior and some of them will essentially teach themselves by getting the reaction. But you could also a dog that hasn't noticed conditioning and it's operant conditioning and the condition. Reflex. Beautiful answer. Qualifications. I work with dogs. I know that. You are Doctor dog. You are Doctor dog. You know what's going to happen soon if it carries on like this, Professor Hale's going to start getting jealous and he's going to start swatting up on canine related science and then you're going to have a fight. Next time there's be a dog, he will. I know him well. There'll be a dog question. We should have that live that'd be great. We will do it. We'll do it like a gladiator on the radio about a science. But in the meantime, is this your third round of applause or your fourth? It's, I think, my third. I think so too. I look forward to the fourth fieri. Grazie Mille. Thank you very much. 1255. Squeezing a couple more. Sam's in Liverpool. Sam, question or answer? I have an answer for you, James, carry on, Sam, the Doritos crisps, other crisps are available. Huge question. Huge question. Absolutely. I feel a bit ridiculous after that. Lovely answer. What's going on? So the cool original, it's obviously an american brand. In America it's known as cool ranch. Yeah, you're right. So ranch ranch dressing isn't just a tomato y dressing? No, I know why. It's garlicky and herby whitey. Exactly. It's a bit like the stuff they give away with Domino's pizzas in that little plastic pot. Isn't it? Somewhat from that? Exactly, yeah, that's more of a high brow. I've called in for a high brow trap so we wouldn't have known what cool ranch meant because you say ranch to a british person and they think bonanza or high chaparral or something like that. They don't think tasty creamy salad dressing. So it is. It is flavored with the. Yeah. So it's called. Furthermore, furthermore, James, I believe the crisps that you will have had will have been slightly salted. They are a light yellow flavor. That's right. The cheese ones are a sort of darker but there's still a tiny bit cheesy. There'll be whey powder or something in the, in the, in the light. The ones I had last night. But you know. Do you remember when I said to him, was it Neil? Was that his name? Do you remember when I said to him if I went I could find some ready salted that were called original? Do you remember when I said that? When I said that though? I do, I do. Hula hoop original. Already salted. Why are you shaking? Yeah. Excuse me a second Sam, why are you shaking your head? Hula hoops are awful. They're not crisp. That's not relevant to the conversation we're having. This is about. No one wants to know what you think about hula hoops. The ready salted ones are called original. Am I right or am I right, Sammy? I think you're right. Round of applause for Sam. Professor Hal is here. We've done the dog question. Haha. Yeah, I saw off Professor Smith and I'll see off Doctor dog. Professor Smith around, mate. Professor Smith sit around. But Doctor dog has got your number. Bless cars. Cars, windows. Yes, exactly. This is all about surface area to volume ratio. If we put to one side the obvious thing about central heating, surface area dissipates heat. Volume creates heat. That is that it's easier for a whale to stay warm than it is for a mouse. Other examples of this include your fingers get cold first for the rest of your body. This one is still the best for now. Radiators have got lots of surface area. Elephants flat their ears, massive surface area, very little volume, and that's the way we get rid of heat. So cars have got more surface area for their given volume. They get rid of heat quicker. Round of applause. Hang on. Qualifications? I'm delighted to be the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Round of applause for the professor. That was a lovely picture of you in your new hat the other day, by the way, next to the one of your granddad. That was a really lovely picture. Thank you, that one. You're very welcome. We've gone very niche today on mystery hour. Some of the comments I've made are relevant to precisely one person. Sam is interested. Stuff with the last one. Question or answer, Sam, answer. On sounding horror films, there's like different stuff going on in different horror films if you take Jaws. So, like, first you need to understand, obviously all films, there's stuff going on on screen, so the sound is there to amplify it. Yes. Jaws is just a basic building pan, a building rise that builds tension over time. Yes, basic music principle. But it wouldn't work with a higher pitched note quite, would it? No, it wouldn't do. Why is that? Do we know why? That is to do with musical key. Lower keys. Certain key. Sheila's here. I'm late already. Give me, give me the punchline. Okay, so then if you get to modern horror films, you've got subsonic and infrasonic frat sounds that are tied to things like tiger calls. Yeah, it's like. Like Tiger Roar. She's got a fit of the giggle. Oh, that's a classic. And you don't have in, like, films like Halloween, you've got just musical instruments like theremins that produce a very. So it's all about frequencies. It's all about frequent qualifications. Studied sociology with a particular interest in music. I've gotta go, mate, I'm late, seriously. And Sheila, I'm gonna cross life to Sheila while she's still got the giggles. Oh, you didn't say testicles. No, I know he didn't say testicles. Even if he did, truth is, and we only tell the truth here at LBC. You were the one who thought he said testicles. You know it, I know it. And now everybody else, fake news. Exactly. Fake news from James O'Brien. Thank you, James.