Toilet roll, why two pieces? - 5 May 16

Three minutes after twelve is the time. If you're just tuning in, you missed out, actually, that last call there, you should see my twitter feed. Everybody's on exactly the same tip. Oh, my God, he's a copper. He's old bill. What a roller coaster story that was. Loved. Oliver's call. I mention all of this because if you're listening to Mister Yare on a podcast, you should know that there's now also a best off James O'Brien free podcast available on iTunes. So I thought I'd get this in at the top, means you can go and download that now as well. Two podcasts a week coming from the show, which is great. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour. What is it? You should know by now, but I'll fill you in briefly. It is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that's not ordinarily available anywhere else on the radio. You have a mystery. We have the answer. I say we and you have the answer as well. Usually the way it works is you ring in with a who, a why, a what, where, when, whether, wish, whither, wherefore, whence, you name it, you can ask it, as long as it's not boring or repetitious. That's it, really, as long as it's not boring or repetitious. And by repetition, I just mean something that we've done recently that we can remember. It'd be nice if you could check the archive. We've got an archive over at LBC dot co dot UK comma. But I appreciate, I can't really discuss that. I can't really guarantee, I can't insist, rather, that you check the archive before ringing. And it does mean that I leave myself open to the regular embarrassment of asking people how they know the answer to the question and they can say, well, I heard it on mystery two years ago, but that's the price you pay for a successful and popular feature like this. I can't remember everything that's gone on any more than you can. Where are we, then? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. I've already asked a question, actually, and I'm going to leave it up there, actually, as part of mystery hour. And that question is, why is Jordan Virtu or virtu the unluckiest, arguably the unluckiest footballer in the world at the moment? And I've already got an answer coming in, so don't ring in with the answer as that Simon asks, can you introduce revenge hour every Tuesday from next week as it sounded brilliant. No, mate, you missed it. It's your fault. Oh, you mean it sounded brilliant? You were listening. I can't do it every week. You can't. You can't make lightning strike twice. You sit here today thinking, what the hell are we going to talk about? We're not allowed to talk about the elections. Oh, man. And we had the most powerful hour on the difficulties that former military people face getting into work on civil street. I mean, really impressive callers, but really incredible insights as well. And then the last hour just went absolutely bonkers. Six minutes after twelve is a time Eric is in New Malden. Question or answer, Eric. Question, please. Yes. All right. So I'm working on the pond today and I've got my jeans very wet. Steady on. All right. Well, why do clothes get dark when they're wet, even though water is clear? Is that a mystery? Is it counterintuitive? That's what it's counterintuitive, yeah. I would suggest. Unless. Well, your intuition. Intuition is quite greater than mine. No, it isn't. It should be clear. But you're thinking. I mean, it's like you're seeing water as light or something. It's not. It's a. It's a. It's a substance. So a wet cloth. There's no reason why a wet cloth shouldn't be darker than a dry cloth, is it? Well, it's. Well, is there any reason it should be? Yeah, I take your point. Yeah. You know what? I've got a feeling. All right, you're on. Yeah. Why does water make clothes make fabric make things go darker when it's clear? It doesn't have any. It's to do with light. But I'm not even going to get close to getting a proper answer to that question. So we'll throw open the phone phone lines and find someone who does. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If that someone is you, dawn is in Rayleigh. Dawn, question or answer a question, please. Yes. Is there a clinical difference between a psychopath and a sociopath? And if so, what is it? You've been listening to too much LBC, haven't you, dawn? You've been listening at weekends. The difference between a psychopath and a sociopath. Neither of them have any empathy. There's a brilliant book you should read if you find this sort of stuff interesting, by John Ronson called the psychopath test. I've read it. Well, the answer's in there. Well, I know what a psychopath is. It's got like all the definitions, but is it sociopath different? Because all psychopaths. I think all psychopaths are sociopaths, but it's a question of whether they inflict harm on others, isn't it? So a sociopath will not be affected by. By conscience or empathy. A psychopath will actually, one of the things like I heard was almost like a joke, you know, what it was between a psychopath and a sociopath? Psychopaths don't know other people are real. Sociopaths know other people are real. They just don't care. Or is it something like, with a sociopath, their behavior is learned because they've had a dysfunctional upbringing, say. But with a psychopath, it's something that they can't change, like it's due to a brain injury or hereditary or something like that. I just wonder if you've got any. No, I will. We will. I don't. I don't. We should have. So you'll be looking for some sort of clinical psychologists to ring in or something like that. Or someone who can remember this book we've both read that neither of us can remember the fold. I'm sure it's in there, you know, we'll find out for you. I can remember a lot, but I can't remember if that was actually clarified. No, you're on. What's the difference between a psychopath and a sociopath? Is there a reason why you want to know? Is it to help you plead? No, it's just one or two things recently saying might have triggered the question in my brain. No, you're on. Everybody's a bit fascinated with monsters, aren't they? Yes, they are. I mean, that's why it's such an amazing book. But it's obviously not amazing enough to have allowed us to remember precisely what that distinction is. We'll find out. Nine after twelve is the time. So there you go. What's the difference between a psychopath and a sociopath? And why have Eric's genes got wet? Not why have they got wet? Why do wet jeans go darker than dry jeans? Why does water, which is clear, make things darker which is not clear? Stuart is in Deptford. Stuart, question or answer? Stuart is my dad and David. But can you do a question? Yeah, of course you can, David. Well, hang on a minute. You can't actually. No. Put your dad on quickly for me, David. Okay, just for 1 second. Hello, James, mate. We've got all sorts of rules about letting children on the radio and if you didn't clear it first with the producer. We've just broken all of them. I did ask them if my boy could ask a question. They said yes. Really? Because I said, he's only nine. Because I know you have a rule with your girls. You see. They're off today, aren't they? You've got polling station issues. Right. So you're cool? You're cool with him talking to me? Yeah, I am, yeah. That's fine, then. Let's put the lad on quick before he gets upset. David, you're live on mystery. What's your question? If you dug a hole through the centre of the earth and you dropped a ball through it, what would happen? Would it stop in the middle? Would it stop in the middle because of gravity? So a theoretical hole right through the center of the earth, would it. Would gravity sort of meet in the middle and mean that the ball stopped moving? Yeah. I like this question. I'll try and find out for you. Thanks. No, thank you. Thank you, David. Thank you, Stuart. Ten minutes after twelve. That's avoided awkwardness. Expertly. They're like a figure skater. Bob's in Wilson Cross. Bob. Question or answer? I have a question for you, James. Yes. My question is, we hear that animals produce better mill or cows do if they are listening to music and chickens supposedly lay more eggs. My question is, do animals have a natural sense of rhythm? Wherever you go in the world, people have all types of music. But if you go there and you hear it, you're not along. You tap your feet or whatever. I want to know whether animals actually enjoy that type of rhythmic thing that you get from music. They do have rhythm. My dog's got rhythm. My dog raises her paw up and down in time with the music. Oh, there you go. See? Well, I come. Hang on a minute. It's mystery hour, not mystery months. I can't go through them all one by one. Start with the aardvark, end with the zebra. I don't know is the odd. But your question is, do any animals have rhythm? To which the answer is yes. Have you not seen the jungle book? That doesn't count. Really? So you want a slightly more authoritative answer to this? Yes, I do. My wife's dog used to howl along to Coronation street years ago. Not the same thing at all. No, most people would howl along to that. But I just wanted to know whether it matter where you go in the world, different music, you know, you tap along to it. It doesn't matter if you're in Africa or if you're in Cuba. Or wherever. And I wondered whether animals appreciate that sort of rhythmic thing that you get from music that makes you want to. I like it. I'm pretty sure they do. But obviously just a sort of vague memory of my dog is not enough to go definitive, even if I am making up the rules as I go along. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time. Let's get an answer for Bob. Let's also find out a distinct difference, and it has to be academic, between a psychopath and a sociopath. That lovely question from David about a tunnel through the center of the earth. We've done something similar to that. But if we've done that specifically question before, I can't remember the answer. I think the momentum of the ball as it goes through would be big enough to defeat. Because gravity is not very strong. Believe it or not, on this planet you think it is, because you hear about it all. Gravity is not very strong. You know how I can prove that? The fact that you can jump in the air means that gravity isn't actually that strong. The gravitational pull of the earth. If it was that strong, you wouldn't be able to jump in the air. So what would happen to that theoretical ball in laboratory conditions that's gone right through the center of the earth? And why do our clothes get darker when they get wet, given that water is so clear? If it was sort of Coca Cola, you could understand why, couldn't you? But why does water make venom darker? Zero. 345-606-0973 tells in west by fleet. Tell question or answer? Answer. Go on, then. This is to do with the balls dropping through the earth. No. No. How's that happened? Did he cut? Did he. Did he lie to us? No. I've got. I've got you down as a questioner. Tell. Sorry about that, mate. Hello? Sorry. You still there, James? No. Yeah. What's happening now? They just put the wrong person through. No, I'm tell from west by fleet. I don't know. You're talking to me. Have you got a question or an answer? I've got a question, James. Who was the last fella? I don't know. I heard somebody pop up in the background. I just assumed it was something to do with your switchboard. Yeah, but I said, tell him where Spyfield. And he started answering, saying he had an answer. That's a bit cheap. Hang on, tell. Before you ask the question, mate, there's someone out there pretending to be you at the moment. There's never two of me, James. There can't be two tells. There's only one tell in West Pipley. There's only one. All right, quick, ask your question. Right. I want to know who's written down as discovering England? You know, as Captain Cook discovered Hawaii and Columbus discovered various different other countries. Who discovered England? Who's written to have discovered England? Nobody. There's no discoverer of England. How did England come about, then? Well, it's about you. The only reason you know about the other places being discovered is because of the civilization that discovered them. It had history, it had writing, it recorded these things. A lot of countries. And also don't forget that there were indigenous people in these countries that we allegedly discovered. Yeah, I know. That's what I always say. Columbus didn't discover anything. There was people there already. Precisely. So you've got a very post imperial worldview, if you don't mind me saying so, tel, because humanity has evolved all over the planet and in some places it was, I guess, more evolved than in others. And they're the ones that tooled off the world in ships looking for gold, killed all the people they discovered when they got there and claimed that they discovered the entire country. But they hadn't. They hadn't. It's not. No one discovered England. Is there not a viking written down somewhere that would have discovered England? No, because the vikings only came here to nick all the stuff that the angles had. Yeah, all right, I get you. I'm going definitive on this. Nobody discovered England. All right. I'll give you that. Round of applause then, James. Good play. Who was the other telly that's all gone a bit spooky today. It's 1215 LBC. Ec. Dun dun dun. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. This is LBC. This is mystery hour. What are questions on the board already? I'll give you a quick reminder in a minute. The who discovered England? I've gone. I've gone definitive on that. Same with the rhythmic animals. But there are. We need more answers. Do you know, I think Jez is right. Jez can remember this. Didn't Professor Hal answer that question involving snake charmers? I haven't heard from. Did we hear from Hal last week? Professor Halloween, professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. I hope he's not sulking. Maybe he doesn't. We've probably done the water question as well. This is what happens, you see, when we have a change of staff on. On the program, none of us can remember anything. Also, we're all getting old, or I am, anyway, so we've got young young colleagues who are young enough to have a decent memory. And then old fogies like me, who are not even Jones the engineer, isn't here anymore. Mark's only done about ten mystery hours. How can he be expected to remember what's gone on over the last eight years? All right, I know, I know, I know. You don't start moaning to me about the problems you're having at work. So why the hell should I be moaning to you about the problems I'm having at mine? I'll tell you why. Because you're moaning to me about mystery. Out. Repetition. It's not my fault. Psychopaths and sociopaths, a lot of you. What's the difference between one and the other? That technical question about the ball falling through the earth. Do animals have rhythm? Why do our clothes get darker when they're wet? And I've done that one. The water. I know what it is. The word is refraction, but it's too late now. And my question, which wasn't really mystery, but it made me chuckle a lot. What makes Jordan Vertu, arguably the unluckiest footballer in the world? There's one phone line free. If you can answer any of them, or if you've got a question of your own, be quick and grab it. 21 minutes after twelve is the time. Tobin is in. Brent Cross. Tobin, question or answer? Hello, mate. I've got an answer for you. Yeah? It's a rare name, Tobin. One of my best friends is called Tobin. You're the only one I've ever met. The only other one I've ever spoken to. Yeah, it's pretty rare. Pretty rare. I don't know. When my mum came up. I like it. I like it. What's your answer? Cheers, buddy. Can I just say, I think you're the best thing in british media? Yeah, you can. You can actually. Go on then. Say it. You're the best thing in british media. I'm good. Cool. Thanks for checking in advance. Now, carry on. Good, good. My answer is, he's unlucky because he was. He had the choice of choosing two different football teams to move to. Had, like, contracts, agreed, same salary, all that sort of business. He didn't choose particularly wisely. He chose Villa, who were absolute garbage and got relegated. And the other team he could have picked was Leicester City, who did fairly well this season. And that was in the. That was during the last break. That was during the last off season. Yeah, exactly. Last season. Villa or Leicester? Villa or Leicester? I'm going to go with. Oh, man. Qualifications Tobin, my mate, is the agent who was. Who organized the deal to Leicester and he was trying to convince him, but he chose Villa. If you build it. If you build it, they will come. Round of applause for Tobin, not just for the kind words. That was beautifully played. Well done. Thank you, mate. That is an ambition of mine to get a round of applause. You've achieved it now. Beautifully done. Even if it was a little bit. What's the word? What's the word for. I can't remember. Extraordinary. 23 minutes after twelve, Adam is in Isleworth. Adam, question or answer? It's a question for you. Yes. So I was in the loo listening to. Oh, no, mate, come on. And my question was, why is toilet paper made up of two parts? Two parts, you poor soul. Three parts around my way. Well, I'm from the north, you know, still using the shiny stuff that we had at school. Time to time. It depends how well the month's gone. So. Yeah. Why made up of separate sheets? Why not one sheet that's twice as thick rather than. Because if you made one sheet twice as thick, it wouldn't be. It would be half as soft. Softness. Really. You're overlooking the crucial role that the air cushions play in the process. Air cushion. Well, there's a sort of form of air cushion between the layers, isn't there? The more that you agitate it, the more it comes into play. It sounds like we have. I'm not going to go definitive on that because I just made it up. Even if it turns out to be true, I can't claim the credit for it. But. Well, it's the same with kitchen roll. You can't make it thicker. I mean, it's, well, kitchen. Because it would be like kitchen roll. No, you've just answered your own question, mate. Because thick toilet roll is kitchen roll and that doesn't have the same softness that toilet roll has. I'm just looking at my kitchen roll now, actually. It's made up of two parts. Is it? Yeah. Get you. And why not three parts? Why not go like the razor blades where they have another razor blade? Tell you what, somebody somewhere in product development, and Rex has just written that down. Well, seven sheets, are you right? It'd be like the razor blades. Every two years someone will go, I've got a genius. I've had a brainwave. Let's stick another sheet on the toilet roll. The kitchen roll is thicker than the toilet roll. Right? The kitchen roll. Yes. It's about. It's a bit bumpy, but it's. So why in layers and not just one thick piece. Correct? Yeah. Okay. Do you know what? Maybe that is a slightly bigger mystery than I originally realized. Next time you have a question inspired by your visit to the smallest room in the house, maybe sit on your hands for a bit though, eh? I wouldn't want to sit on my hands. 25 minutes after twelve. Stop it. Yvonne Stamore, everyone. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. I'd like to know why it is that if you cross your leg, your leg, the leg that's crossed feels weightless, yet if someone else puts their leg on you, it feels really heavy. Does that make sense? Not even a little bit. Your own leg, you can't feel the weight of your leg, but if somebody else put their leg on you, you could feel the weight of their legs. Yeah, of course I can feel the weight of my leg. Otherwise, how do you know? Your legs are crossed. No, but it's not heavy. No. It would be if you put your ankle on it, though. No, it's not, it's not. You could sit there for hours with your leg crossed and it doesn't really feel heavy. Rubbish. You get pins and needles. No, that's different. That's dependence on the. On the angle of there. So I'm sitting here with my leg crossed. Yeah. And then if I feel a slight weight on it. Yeah. Heavy. Yeah, but that's. That's because of where my thigh is, Yvonne. No, well, hang on a minute. You're asking questions, I'm giving you brilliant answers and you're just dissing that answer. Well, think about it, because if you. What you're talking about is you're sitting on the sofa tonight and whoever the loved one in your life is plonks their feet on your lap. It's really, really heavy. Yep. Yep. Because they've got no tension in their thigh, you see. But if you cross your own leg, your thigh is taking a lot of the strain, so the knee is not exposed to as much weight as it would be. You've got an elastic muscle in your leg called your femus made that up as well. You've got an elastic thing in your leg that supports your weight a bit, is the answer. Is that right? Oh, yeah. Is it? Yeah. No, you don't. You're just making it up. I think that might be. It might be sort of involved with the truth on some very, very early level. But I shall find it's a strange question, though. What's made you wonder about it? Do you spend a lot of time staring at your leg, wondering why it's weightless? No, but I have thought about it a couple of times. Well, we'll see. Find out for you. Carry on, everyone. Is this the first time you've found mystery, huh? It is, yes. I like it. I love. I love your question. Why is your leg weightless when you cross it? But if misses O'Brien plonks her legs on my lap when I'm watching the telly, I mean, feather light, feather light. Her legs are but still a little heavier than when I cross my own leg. Professor Hal is here. Thank the Lord. Question or answer, Professor Hal, I have an answer to the dropping a ball to the center of the earth. Don't spoil it by telling us you've done it before. No, I haven't. Oh, good. Carry on, then. You're quite right. Gravity is the weakest of the four fundamental forces. Okay, we're ignoring air friction. What would happen is imagine you dropped the ball from sea level. It would drop right down and it would accelerate, but the air would cause it to reach a terminal velocity at some point. So it goes straight to the center of the earth and it would go effectively up because now it's traveling up because it's traveling away from the center of the earth and nearly get to the height it was where it started, and then it would start falling back down again. So it would oscillate like a pendulum, and in the same way as a pendulum eventually comes to rest, the ball would eventually come to rest at the center of the earth because the energy is slowly being so. It'd be like. And then it would end hovering in the middle of the earth like any spring, like any sort of system with stored energy, it would go back forth, back, forth, back, forth, back, and then stop. Qualifications? I'm a professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. I've realized I don't let you say that often enough. No, I don't actually say it very often, actually. And you should do. We're very proud of you, you know. We're proud of you. And, in fact, I mean, I know you used to be a copper, and having spoken, I don't know if you're listening to David Lewisham earlier, an ex copper. He didn't really paint a very pretty picture of former police officers. I'm glad that you're here to remind us that you can go on to academic greatness once you've left the force. We can do lots of different things. Exactly, I think. Thanks for having me. You're very welcome. Round of applause for the professor. That was for David. Got a day off school. Because the polling stations and I have got a wonderful bit of trivia for you involving polling stations. This better be true. If it isn't, I'm gonna have to pick a fight with someone. Why do they use schools? And it's not. It's not. Where did the tradition start? So the answer is not going to be well, because it's the only place you can do it in terms of space and convenience, because that might well be the reason it happens now, but where did the tradition of having polling stations in schools begin? 90%. This is true, and I really hope it is, because when I tell you after the news, you're going to love this little nugget of information just as much as I do. First, though, Eleanor Noakes is here with the headlines. Parliament's been told the health secretary is willing to on LBC. 33 minutes after twelve is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Some questions that still need answers include the difference between a psychopath and a sociopath. I should have checked with Professor Hal about the rhythmic animals, but I think he has done that before. We just need to prove it. He used snake charmers. Why is toilet paper made in the way that it is made? Why don't we have one thick sheet instead of three thin sheets all stuck together? I think when you hear the answer to that, you're going to kick yourself if you didn't work it out for yourself. And why does water make clothes darker when water itself, of course, is colourless and clear? And you now know why. Jordan Virtue, thanks to Tobin in Brent Cross, is probably the unluckiest footballer in the land at the moment. Imagine having the choice at the beginning of last season between Aston Villa and Leicester City. And most people would have chosen Aston Villa, actually, at the beginning of last season. Most people didn't get off with the choice. 1234 is the time Roman is in Dulwich. Roman. Question or answer? Got an answer. Carry on. It's to do with the color of materials. You know, when they're wet. Yes. It isn't to do with refraction, as I think you said. What? No, it's not. No, it's to do with absorption. Now, all substances absorb light to a different degree. For instance, if you shine a beam of light into a tank of water, the beam won't come out as bright on the other side. Some of the water has absorbed quite a bit of the light. Yeah. No, it hasn't absorbed it. It's absorbed it's. Been refracted. It's been sent off in a different direction. Yeah, exactly. That's not absorption, that's refraction. What? No, it's just scattered. That's what. Refraction. That's what we call. That's what we call that absorbed. Let me go back to the color. Right. No, hang on a minute. We need to be clear because you've already told me I was wrong, and you've just completely misrepresented science. What do you think refraction means if it doesn't come at. Well, refraction is the bending of light when it goes through a different medium, like water, because it's changed direction, like water. So the reason the beam doesn't come out the other side, the same as it went in, is because the bending of the light as it passes through a different medium ago. Refraction. Yeah. So, but it stays in the material, doesn't it? No, of course it doesn't stay in the material. There's no light in your jeans, mate. You give your jeans a bit of a squeeze, you're not going to get light dropping out of them. Well, it comes out in sort of different directions, but in effect, we say it's been absorbed. Anything absorbed is going to go somewhere. You might say it's been absorbed, but it's not physically accurate. I mean, it is a phrase that's used to describe total internal reflection, or, I mean, that's the phenomenon you're describing. Well, can I just sort of. You can if you want to, Roman. Okay, the light is gone in all directions. So I'd say it's been absorbed, but, okay, perhaps technically not, although some of it will. And so then the genes now have absorbed some more light than they have before, because at the moment before, they were just absorbing blue light, reflecting blue light and absorbing all the other colors. And that's another thing you see. Now, why did they look. Why don't those blue jeans look blue in the first place? Because they absorbed all the other colors, didn't they? And only blue light. You know, you should. You should write a book about optimism before I decide how rude I'm going to be to you. Roman, what are your qualifications? To answer this question, I've got a degree in physics. You read? Really? Yeah. Go on, tell me something impressive that's true about physics. That's true about physics, yeah. Because what you've just said isn't so the bit something that establishes your physics credentials. I'm not hard pushed to think of anything. You might. You've got a degree in it. You must be able to think of one thing. Well, almost anything I could say would be. Would be true. What's brownian motion? Brownian motion is little particles. When you look at little. I don't know why I asked you that and I've got no way of knowing whether your answer is correct or not. I think you'll find that's true. I'm sure it is. But refraction is the reason why clothes get darker. No, I don't agree. Right, hang. I've got a professor on the other line. Professor Martin Smith is a professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Martin, can you, um. Can you, can you. Can you answer this at all? I think I can. I think I agree with you, actually. There you go. That's it, Roman on your jog. Round of applause for me. Two profess for the price of one question or answer, Professor Smith? It's an answer. Carry on. It's about the legs feeling cross, legs being crossed, feeling heavy. Really. You recognize what she described? Yes. Well, I did the experiment. I crossed my legs and it felt comfortable. Then I crossed my legs so that my ankle was just lying on my knee. And so the weight is the same, but of course it's uncomfortable because of the pressure. If your ankle is over your knee, you've got a very small contact area, so the same weight feels very uncomfortable because the pressure's high, whereas if you've got your legs crossed in a normal way, the weight is spread over the whole length. I recognize what you describe. I think you might be answering slightly the wrong question, because what Yvonne insisted was that when someone else puts their leg on her, it feels heavier than her own leg does. I think that's because when somebody puts their leg on you, it will be over a much smaller area. They won't be able to put their whole thigh on you. They'll just put, typically their ankle on you. Yeah. Which is a small area, hence high pressure, hence discomfort. Therefore you get that feeling. I mean, like a stiletto heel exerting way more pressure than a Wellington boot. Yes. I'm going to give you the round of applause, partly because I think you're either there or very close, and also partly because you just helped me suss Roman so brilliantly, interestingly, about the light thing. Oh, yeah. If you're looking at the clothes from the other side, more light goes through and it's lighter. The light isn't observed, as Roman observes. Absorbed. Roman said it goes through if you happen to be looking from the other side. I knew he was wrong. I knew he was wrong. Just a good job. Had a professor to back me up to prove it. Round of applause for the professor. Roger is in Camberley. Roger, question or answer? Good afternoon. I'd like to have a stewards inquiry, please. Go on, then. The answer given by the professor about the. About the ball that was dropped through the centre of the air. Okay, but you need to be pretty clear and confident that we've made a mistake here. Go on. Now, I think you answered a rhetorical question with a theoretical answer. And if you were to drop a ball through a hole in the centre of the earth, it wouldn't go any further than central Earth, or probably wouldn't even get there, depending what it was made of. You just used the word theoretical, Roger. Well, it's a theoretical question and a theoretical answer, and now you're being practical, which is the opposite of theoretical. So, of course, you can't drill a hole through the center of the earth. No. And if you dropped a ball, it wouldn't go anywhere because it catch fire. But you can't drill the hole in the first place. That's why we said theoretical, Roger. Absolutely. But if you actually made that whole theoretically. Stop it now, Roger. Stop it. Roger, stop. I think you're missing. Roger. Put the spade away and stop digging. I can't. Have a great day. Bruce is in Oxfordshire. Bruce, question or answer? Question. James, good day to you. Hello, Bruce. Who makes morals? Me. What do you want to know? What's the next one coming? Who makes more religious leaders? Historically, isn't it, to try and whether they're doing it for the good of the population and the good of the congregation, or whether they're doing it for their own purposes, is open to historical analysis. But the history of morals is the history of philosophers and religions. And so what about today, while religion is sort of dying on its feet, who's making them up now? Well, everybody. Politicians, probably. But we have to be careful what we say about that. The point is this. If you look at the classic traditions of attempts to establish morality devoid of religion, you're looking mostly at the 19th century enlightenment and people like John Stuart Mill's theory of utility. So utilitarianism becomes, you do what's best for the majority of people at all times, even if it's bad for a minority. Or you get Kant's categorical imperative, which is kind of like an evolution of the golden rule, do unto others as you would have done unto yourself. Or you use in the 20th century, you'd go for someone like John Rawls's veil of justice, where he makes everybody decide what they'd want to happen in a given situation without knowing where they sit in society. So usually morals are determined by what's best for the population, that is, determining upon the morality. Historically that will be religious leaders. More currently, and historically too, it will be philosophers and thinkers, and those thinkers increasingly might be political. Really? Can you give me a contemporary example of that? Well, I just gave you John Rawls and the veil of ignorance, which is from the sixties or the seventies. That's the idea that if there were 100 of us and we were all deciding what happens to thieves, what happens to people who are so hungry they've been shoplifting, but we didn't know where we sat in that. We'd probably give a different answer morally as to what should happen to that person than if we knew it definitely was us or it definitely wasn't us. I capitulate just to the length of that answer. And the quality, mate, wasn't quality and quantity, Bruce, in your mind? Yeah, but I mean, I was just wondering about today, not the sixties, with the Internet world, who's making and confirming these morals or lack of. Well, it's not my fault you couldn't keep up. Here's the other angle on it. It's about the trade off, if you like, between positives and negatives. So morality now has pretty much become an observation about what's best for most of us. And there will be arguments about what us means, whether or not you want to bring ethnicity into it, or population or geography. But generally speaking, morality is supposed to be what's good for us, and that's as true today as it was then. So when you're looking at the Internet and you might be indulging in something that is a little bit questionable, the moral question is, are you doing harm? Not me personally, no. But, you know, I'm going to take a round of applause. That's one of the best answers I've ever given. To be fair, Bruce, you could have been a bit more flipping appreciative, pal. I brought in can't. I brought in mill. I brought in John Rawls. You don't even get that on question time. And you just sort of sat there sounding a bit vanilla. What, non plus? Yeah, non plus. That's what you sounded like. It's 1245 from the LBC travel center. 1249 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien's mystery hour on LBC, which has been a little bit out of the ordinary this week. We've still got questions involving rhythmic animals, psychopaths, sociopaths and two ply toilet paper. Barry's in Chigwell. Barry. Barry. Question or answer? Barry, you sound like you've wrapped your head in toilet paper. I can barely hear a word you say. No, it's a toilet paper question I know the answer for. Go on, then. Well, he wants to know about two plies with the plies. The reason we do plies is for softness, so we use a one ply. There is a two ply. Unfortunately, there is already a free ply on the market. Is that. Hang on a minute. Hang on, hang on. Memo to self, phone Andrex with the four ply idea after program. Also monkey tennis. Also monkey tennis. The reason we don't go any more of a play is it'd be great to have a really comfortable roll like a toilet tissue. I'm not toilet tissue. Kitchen towel roll. But the problem is, because it's so thick, it's not going to break down in the toilet system. That's why we don't ever throw kitchen towel in the sink. It goes into a bin, so it blocks up. So that's why we can't go too thickness on the ply. So what we do is we make them a little bit thinner so you get more sheets on a roll or you double it up. But the problem is, if you've got more pliers, your role is going to be less sheets on a roll. So consumers won't be happy with that. It's comfortable, but they're going to get through it a lot quicker. And. Yeah, and so it's all about flushability. It's a trade off between flushability, comfort and longevity of roll. Yeah, because you got free ply. Take example, the household toilet roll you use in the moment. It's got about 320 sheets. Yeah. If you make it a free ply, it goes down to 200 sheets. Of course it does. Of course it does. So people don't want to face that one. Yes. Softer. But we're not going to get. I see we're getting through it. Have you got a cold? You might say to your wife, you got a cold at the moment you're blowing your nose. What the hell is going on? We're getting through this toilet roll at a rate of knots, you might say, if you were keeping an eye on the toilet and if you had a bigger role. As we all know, I've got a little two year old up girl at home, so she's always constantly pulling the toilet roll out. Yeah. I hesitate to ask you this question, Bazzi, what are your qualifications? I've been selling toilet rolls for ten years. Not just toilet rolls, but, yeah, if you build it, they will come. Round of applause for. That's beautiful, mate. That is a thing of beauty. That's such a brilliant answer. And also. And I'm not. This is a genuine question. You're quite enthusiastic about your job. Oh, I love it. Yeah, I'm picking up. I love that. I'm picking it up. I love that. I love that. That's great. Who'd have thought it? 1251. Barry. God knows what you're ringing for next time, but I will always remember you as Barry the bog roll boy. James is in Woodford. James, question or answer? It's a question. What is it? It is. Why do we never see baby pigeon? You're messing with me now. That's funny. Is it? Yeah, it's one of those shows where everything's got a little bit. That's. That's the question I use is the definition of doll. James? Well, it's. I mean, have you ever seen one? Well, I've never seen a baby tortoise either. They're in the nest you prune. Yeah, but when you see other birds, you see lots of other animals. No, you don't. No, you don't. You. Do you see little nest? When do you not see a baby sparrow? When do you not see a baby eagle? Just like the question. This is the question that defines dullness. Did you know that? When you rang in, have they used you cruelly to tease me? Or were you sort of under the illusion that this was interesting? I just thought I'd tease you a little bit. How's it working out for you? I don't know. I've just never seen one. Stop. Stop. You're channeling Nigel. Stop. Move along. Why'd you never see baby pigeons? Anyone rings in with white dog poo, I'm going home. Martin's in Torquay. Martin, question or answer? I've got an answer. James. Good man. A couple of answers, actually. You only allowed one. Okay. Sociopath. Yes. Somebody with a personality disorder that has extreme antisocial attitudes, but a psychopath has violent social behavior. That's a difference. And one isn't. One will hurt you and one just won't care that you're hurt. Absolutely, yeah. That's it. A nutshell. Can I talk to you about one? About the light? Only if you're going to agree with me. Well, yeah, partially. I don't know if I want a partially it's this simple, really. Frequencies. And that's what light is. Light is a frequency. You can't hear it because it's really high. You see it as a color. So frequencies absorbed by an object. All frequencies absorbed by an object appear black. But all frequencies reflected as he's talking about appears white. And some absorb, some selected absorption reflects back as colors. So if you have a leaf that's green, all the other colors are sort of absorbed by it, but the green is reflected back. But that's in a nutshell, Martin, just cash in the psychopath answer. Seriously? Yeah. Okay. Because I think we were all right on the light. I thought I'd give you a run out, see where it led. But we. The answer is, in turn, total internal reflection or refraction, and we call it what you will. And also, don't forget that the other Martin, who's a professor, had already kind of embellished on it. I lit you, James, in the Channel five studio. Did you really? So you're responsible for this so called career? I was a lighting director. If you turned off those lights, Martin, imagine. Imagine the good you would have done this country if no one had ever seen my grinning Fizzog on the. Not that on Channel five, many people did see it, but still, it's the thought that counts. Yeah. Used to come in with Kirsty. Do you remember? Of course I do. Yeah, of course you do. Yeah. And I licked you. I was there every night. Right. You're a star. So there we are. That's about. Well, I thank you for it, Martin. You could have made me look a little bit more handsome, maybe given me a bit of a suntan, but you did your best working with, let's be honest, with some pretty dodgy raw materials. Give Martin a round of applause and another one for lighting me on Channel five about 164 years ago. Yeah, indeed. Are you enjoying your retirement in sunny Torquay? Absolutely, James. Yeah, it's beautiful day down here. This place is in London as well. But I'd say, just looking across the bay, it's little yachts out on the bay. They're quite high up here and got lovely views. Absolutely fantastic. Good to catch up. Good to catch up. And I won't do any jokes. I won't do any jokes about waiting for sound because they're not funny anymore in the digital world. Martin, take care, mate. Go to Maz next in Kingston. Maz, question or answer? Answer. Yes. For you. Excellent. Trying to. Are you. Are you a genuine caller or you auditioning to be a Hollywood villain? You expect me to talk, mister great admirer? Yes. I couldn't deliver how you didn't know the answer and how you built up all. Everything about morals. Yes. I've got to warn you, if you're sniggering at me in the belief that I got the answer wrong, you're almost certainly setting yourself up for a massive fall. I know church and politicians establish laws and they influence morals, but society chooses which ones they want to adopt. We did cover that. Yeah, but the question was, where do they start? Obviously, society decides which ones to follow, but where do they actually get their choices from? And the answer is the arbiters of morality. That is the clerics or the philosophers. And these days, of course, the political thinkers, the politicians. Yeah, so stop now. The answer was. Mate, seriously, the morals. Morals are from society. No, no, morals are in society. Morals. Society is where morals end up. The question was, where did they begin? No can carry on, Maz, but you'll forgive me for not listening. David is in Forest Hill. David, what have you got? I've got an answer for you, James. What? Go on then. I thought we'd done everything from there. No, I've got the boring pigeon answer for you. Shut the front door, David. Yeah, I'm sorry, mate. They're messing with me now, these people, so called colleagues. Go on then. Why don't you see any baby pigeons? Well, because when they're. When they're in the nest of their babies, and they don't leave the nest until they're able to fly, obviously, when they leave the nest and you can see them. Yeah, and that's. That is as obvious as it is. Same reason you don't see all manner of other chicks from various other types of bird. This is very true. Except water birds. That's. Yeah, well, you will see a chick, you'll see anything that nests in a tree, you know, you're not going to see or anything that nests up high. And pigeons, of course, originally nested on cliffs, so they tend to nest even higher up than other birds and balconies and that kind of thing. Qualifications? Dave, my ex boss, used to race pigeons. And I used to clean out his pigeon loft every Saturday. And it was an extremely grim job. That sounds pretty gross. I used to clean out the chicken house. That was the one silver lining of the folks getting the chickens was that I didn't have to clean out the chicken house anymore, but a pigeon house. How many pigeons in there, roughly? There must have been at least 50 to 60 pigeons in each lock. You should have got in touch with Barry. The bog roll broke. Indeed. He'd have sorted you right out. And on that bombshell, we call time on a slightly surreal show. Round of applause for David. Lots to listen to on the podcast today, I would humbly suggest, and I'm sure the same will be true for the ensuing 3 hours, because Sheila Fogarty is here. I'll be back tomorrow morning. From ten, this is LBC. Thank you, James. From three, I want to talk about this. It's been reported that Janet Jackson, who is 50, is expecting a baby. More and more women are, I learned today. Are you okay with that? From two the government wants to give police and immigration officers powers to demand proof of a person's nationality. Is that common sense in the times we live, or the loss of a precious freedom? After the news, a review of maternity services recently concluded more babies should be born in midwife led units or at home with a community midwife. Now, a West Yorkshire NHS trust has admitted errors made in its midwife led unit led to a baby being still born.