Do animals learn to run faster?

LBC four minutes after twelve is the time. And my goodness me, we've said it before and we'll say it again, but rarely have we said it with such sincerity. I'm ready for some light relief this hour. I really am ready for some laughs. And don't forget, this is the only hour of radio in the United Kingdom that comes with a guarantee of at least one laugh out loud moment before 01:00 today. And that's not the only guarantee that mystery hour comes with. It also comes with a guarantee that by 01:00 you will know more than you do now. You may not thank me for the knowledge, you may not be able to put it to any constructive use, you may not even be able to remember it by tea time, but at 01:00 today you will definitely know more than you do now. Phone lines are full already, but I suspect a couple of these may turn out to be chaff rather than wheat. So keep dialing the number you need. There's two phone lines free. Now if you've got a question. Zero 345-606-0973 okay, here we are. Mistria is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. It's the sort of radio equivalent of those newspaper and magazine features where you write in with a question and a couple of weeks later, if you're lucky, you'll get an answer. Instant gratification. Here, you get an answer straight away. And the kind of questions we're looking for, we're looking at the what are we talking? The whos, the whys, the wheres, the whens, the withers. Why do we do that? James? Whats the origin of that? Where does that come from? When that happens? Why does that happen? Anything you want. It can be scientific or it can be relatively silly. There really are very few rules when it comes to what sort of questions can be asked. The only rules are repetition. We try to avoid it, although that's more my lookout than yours. And dullness, which is pretty much in the ear of the beholder, but is probably best expressed by simply stating that if you honestly can't imagine anyone really except you being interested in the answer to the question that you're asking, if just if there were 100 people in the room and you thought that maybe fewer than 20 of them would be interested in the answer, then I would caution you to really think long and hard before ringing in with it. Dullness is nobody's friend. Okay? Is that it? I think that's it, isn't it? That's pretty much it. Should we just get it up and running? If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, you have to ring in and provide it. And you will, if you successfully do that and convince us that you do know what you're talking about. And by that I just mean you just explain how you know what you know. I'll say, what are your qualifications? And you will not say, oh, I've got, you know, a CSA in Babby washing or a bag of gymnastics award for. You'll say, oh, I saw it on telly last week, James. Or I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, who is of course, one of our most regular contributors. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Should we crack on? Yeah, keep re dialing because we're turning over a lot of calls at the moment. If you're trying and failing to get through, keep coming. Also, some amazing news for you. Bob Dylan's just been given the Nobel Prize for literature. How cool is that? Bob Dylan has just been given the Nobel Prize for literature for his poetic reinterpretations of the classic american song tradition. Andy's in Dartford. Question or answer? Question, mate. Bring it on. Do fish get thirsty? Don't be soft. I don't know if this is quite as, quite as funny as you thought it was when you rang in, but in what circumstances would you imagine a fish getting thirsty? I don't know. I just ask you. Okay, keep taking the tablets, Andy, and I'll keep trying to find you an answer. Roberto is in Kilburn. Roberto, question or answer is a question. James, actually, carry on, Roberto. I just wanted to know when we are talking about numbers, why in this country and in the United States, we use a dot to express the decimal numbers, one instead? In Europe, in Italy, for example, where I come from or other places, we use a comma to express those decimal numbers. Really? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I can guarantee you that. It's like that. 50 pounds and 50 pence in Italy will be 50 comma, 50, not 50. I have no idea. Yeah, that's a really good question. Oh, thank you. So we call it. We have to call it a decimal mark. Why do we use a dot and you use a comma? Yeah, that's, that's basically what I am interested in today. Yeah, you're on. All right, let's get an answer for Roberto. Seriously. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Thank you, Roberto. Hello, grazimile. Lewis is in. Lewis. Question or answer? I've got a question, James. You've got a lovely voice, Lewis. Thank you very much, James. Do you know any poems? I. Once upon a midnight dreary, whilst I pondered weak and weary. I could go on, but I don't want to waste your time, James. All right. You're not wasting my time, Lewis. I'm enjoying. I don't hear enough dulcet tones on the radio. I have to listen to my own screeching caterwauling. But anyway, what did you ring in to ask? I've asked. I want to ask. Where do we get the phrase hunky dory? Oh, I like that. I'm presuming it was around before the David Bowie album. Yeah, I would assume so. Yeah. Maybe that's the answer. Who knows? Hunky dory. Hunky dory? Yeah, because I assume it's nothing to do with a fish that's induced with steroids. I would hope not. Hunky dory. Hahaha. Or a really bad children's book. Hunky dory. Hunky dory. And oh, I like that a lot. It's my face. Probably my favorite album of all time. It's certainly in my top three. Hunky dory by David. You need to listen to more David Bowie. To be honest, I didn't ever listen to enough of him, but oh, hunky. Well, start with hunky dory. You could do. You could do a lot worse as your reintroduction to the brilliance of Bowie. It's a God awful small affair, Lewis. Thank you. So what's the origin of the phrase hunky dory? Why do we use a decimal point, whereas a lot of other countries use a decimal comma and bless him, do fish ever get thirsty? Rick's in London Bridge. Rick. Question or answer? Question, please. James. Yes. Why is it when you mix alcohol, do you get drunker than when you just stick to the same kind of alcohol the whole time? If you drink a beer all day, you'll be fine. You won't get as drunk as when you mix it with. If you stop mixing it with vodka or something else. Well, vodka is a lot stronger than beer, but I understand what you mean. Can I. Can I slightly expand on your question into one that I've been meaning to ask myself for years, but I've always forgotten, like I do every Thursday at twelve noon. I forget whatever questions I want to know. Why you get a different. Because. Were you describing a different level of drunkenness? But I'm interested in different types of intoxication. You feel. Don't you find that if you have a red wine, you feel a different type of intoxication from how you do if you have a few pints of ale or a brandy or. No. Is that just me? I think it might be just you. But tell me, what do you mean by that? I mean I could drunk, right? Well, I'm drinking. When I drink whiskey, I can be a little bit belligerent. Believe it or not, Rick, I know people are going to find this very hard to credit, but I can be a little aggressive verbally. I can only. Which only with whiskey. Everything else, especially vodka. I'm just a pussycat. I'm a giggler. Why is that? I think it might be quite specific to you because I'm quite a bit drunk, so I'm quite happy. Well, I'm a great drunk. I don't touch whiskey anymore. But we used to call, when I was a newspaper journalist, Stella Artois was known by quite a. By a nickname that suggested it would wife basher or something like that. Yes. Which means that Stella Artois in particular, people thought made them violent in a way that other lagers, other strong continental lagers, did not. But that if you don't want that, if you don't want that question, you can stick with your own. Why does mixing your drinks make you drunker? Drunker than. Do you stick the same drink the whole night? All right, thanks a bunch, mate. I really thought I could possibly use this as an opportunity to get an answer to my own question, but apparently not. Let's find out for Rick. Why does mixing your drinks make you drunker? And going to presume that it's the same percentage of alcohol, if you see what I mean. It's the mixture of drinks rather than the strength. Phil's in Tamworth. Phil, question or answer? Well, it's an answer, actually. Hi, James. How are you? I'm very well, mate. It's been a while. How you keeping? I'm fine, thank you. Still tinkering around the country? You know, the chap has just asked the question about the fish. Yeah. About whether, you know, whether they get thirsty or not. The initial thought was, what a daft question. And then I thought, hang on a minute, they do need thing. Because remember a while ago somebody asked you about through fish knees because he'd seen them doing his thing and I was able to give them an answer. I do. I do remember. It's basically. It's burnt on my memory. What a time to be alive. That was Phil. I know, I know. The flags went up and I used to keep fish and I was always very interested in them. And I remember one of my boys, when they were little, because every so often had to top the tank up, you see. And obviously that was mostly to do with evaporation. But he asked Sam said to me one day, dad, he said, do the fish drink all that water that you keep putting in? And I said, no. And then I thought, well, but hang on. Do fish need water? So I looked it up and you know what? Here's the answer. You're gonna love this. Fish, like any living being, needs water in their tissues and they absorb it through. Oh, come on. Osmosis. Before the 12:15 travel news. We've gone. We've gone full osmosis. It goes through the skin and gills. Osmosis. Oh, mate. Give it a round of applause for Philip. I'm gonna have a ceremonial change of lanes. A ceremonial changing of lanes to mark your mystery. Our round of applause and your osmosis. Hallelujah. You just hit the double. I'm going to give him the hat trick. Should we go full Ray Liotta or should we save that until later in the hour? No, no, Uncle Ray. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Thank you. They will come. You've done it, Phil. You've only gone and done it. It's coming up to 12:15. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. David Arnold, who, of course, was in the studio with us not long ago. And you thought I was exaggerating when I told you he was a mystery, our addict. And he said he used it as a way of postponing his deadlines on the composing he's supposed to be doing. He says, fish obviously don't drink as much as the bloke who called in to ask that question. Just goes to show. Who'd have thought that there was enlightenment awaiting? So why does mixing your drinks deliver different types, different levels of drunkenness? Why do some countries use a decimal comma and others a decimal point? And what's the origin of the word hunky dory? If you can answer any of those, I really want you to call in on zero. 345-606-0973 it's 1215. This is LBC. Brian on LBC. It's 90 minutes after twelve. You are listening to mystery hour on LBC. Couple of phone lines for you. If you're very quick. I'm told that judicious use of redial is the way to get through. And when you say to me, I try every week and can't get through, how come so and so gets on every week? I don't know. Ask them. Ask what secret magic they weave in order to get on air. But generally, it is by far the busiest hour of the week. Greg is in Croydon. Greg, question or answer? Question? I'd like to know, why is it that when people scrape fingernails down a blackboard, that really has the same effect on most people? What is it that we really dislike about that sound? It's a really good question, actually. Is there anything else like it? It's that particular screeching noise, isn't it? And the sense of vibration that goes with it sends shivers down your spine. Yeah, but it's. I can't think of another sound. It's not like a discordant sound for music or anything like that. No, it's visceral. It's physical. You have a physical response to it rather than an emotional response, almost. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Cool. All right. Why, why. Why does it upset us all so much? Why does it discombobulate us so profoundly? Thank you, Greg. Different drunkenness, according to mixing your drinks. What's that about? Origin of the phrase hunky dory? And why do some countries have a decimal comma, where we have a decimal point? Andre. Zunis. Sheen. Andre. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Good afternoon. Hopefully it's a sensible one. I'm sure it is. And even if it isn't, I won't say so. Okay. What's the origin of a judge's wig? I know that the Lord Chancellor also wears one, but it sort of. I mean, on the continent, they also wear something to cover the head, but this covers the ears as well. Yeah. Why wigs? Was it. Was it. Pardon? I think it was a dis. Wasn't it a disguise originally? I don't know. That's why I'm asking. Wasn't it? Rhetorical question. I think I could be wrong, and I'm certainly not going to give myself a round of applause for this, but I think it was so that if you. You know, if you were my lawyer and you didn't get me off, or you were the prosecution lawyer and I got sent down, then my. My boys wouldn't go after. If you're wearing a wig, you wouldn't be that easy to recognize in the street when you're not wearing your wig. I could have just made that up, Andre. And I can sense from your quietness that you're far from impressed. No, I'm just intrigued. I'm just intrigued. Why wigs? Why do lawyers wear wigs? Yep, you're on. Okay. I like that. And I want to know the answer. I just got that, you know that little thing in the back of my mind where you just think you might have heard that before. Paula is in Hatfield. Paula, question or answer? Hi, James. Hello. It's a question. Carry on. Twice this week I've bitten my mouth and got mouth ulcers because I'm an idiot, obviously, while I'm eating. And I was like, why do I get mouth ulcers every time I bite my mouth? Isn't it? It's like a scar, though, rather than an ulcer. It's a. You've punctured the skin, you've punctured the gum. Is it like a scab? Yeah. Why does it hurt so much then? Because you've got a lot of. You've got a lot of nerve endings in your mouth. I think that's it. It's not quite the same as when you get an ulcer, you know, and it's almost like a little volcano, you know, that shape you've got and you can feel the hole in the top of it. It's not quite the same as that because I get. I've got. I need to get a filling replaced at the moment, so I keep nicking the side of my gums and. I know what you mean, but it's more like a scar than an ulcer. I just need to. Hang on. Just anyone tuning in. This is not the medical hour with Clive bull. This is just mystery hour with Paula and me. Okay. So I think it's just more like a scar or a lesion than an actual ulcer. Oh, well, it feels like an ulcer, but thank you. I'll take a round of applause for that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Paula. Chris is in full of Chris. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Good afternoon. Carry on. It's just the mathematics one, the decimal point. Oh, yes. Good. Why? Why? Well, as with so many things in maths, a lot of this came out of India and subsequently Arabia. It was, I think, from memory. An indian mathematician discovered this old system of the decimal point and he used a dot, I think, when arabian mathematicians picked up on it, I can't remember how many centuries later, they used to use a small sort of diagonal line. And then when european printing came in, the comma was the obvious analogy to the little line, and other countries stuck with a full stop for the dot. Exactly. Why? Which countries went which way or adopted which convention? I don't know. Do you think anyone would know? Be lost in the mists of time? Presumably something to do with printing machines, or it could be something to do with pint machine. I think it's probably more to do with the english speaking world, because, I mean, obviously America is the same, the UK uses the full stop or a dot, but it could just be historic, traditional convention. So when did the divergence start, do you know? Well, I won't say certainly anything, but sometime before the middle ages, I would think. I mean, a long, long time ago. So, in a sentence, and this is going to sound a little brutal, but Mister Yarra is a very cruel mistress. Chris, in a sentence, your answer to the question of why some countries have a decimal comma and others have a decimal point, it's sounding a little bit like. Because they do. Well, no, not so much that. I think the dot started with the indian mathematicians, the Arabians replaced that with a diagonal slash, small line, and then those two conventions were variously adopted. We're a bit short of applause at the moment. Have another one. It may well be that there is more flesh to be applied to those particular bones. Felix is in Enfield. Felix, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Right, okay. Someone asked about the hunky dory term. Yes. Right, okay. So I've got a quick look. I should have said, no, you're not allowed to do that. It's my fault that you're not allowed to look stuff up. You know, I did wonder right at the outset, I forgot that one rule of mystery, you're not allowed to look stuff up, otherwise there's no point doing this. It's a celebration of education, enlightenment, all of those things. But it's not your fault, Felix. It's my fault for not. Not reminding you. You're not allowed to look stuff up, otherwise there's no point to mister. You could google everything. It's all about, like, Phil boasting, not boasting, Phil demonstrating his knowledge of fish because he used to keep fish. Or the lovely answer there, or the Chris there talking about decimal points because he knows a little bit of the history, me being an expert on mouth ulcers for reasons that I'm not entirely clear about. So there you go. Paul is in Potter's bar. Paul, question or answer? Yeah, hi there, James. It's an answer. Carry on, Paul, to the judges wig. Oh, why do judges wear well why do lawyers wear wigs? And you've got it in one. It's disguise, really. You got it in one? Yeah, absolutely. Qualifications? One of my customers makes judges wigs. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. We've gone double Lyota this hour. I can't believe it. One of your customers makes judges wigs. So you've had a conversation about the. Yeah, about a month ago. And it is so that I can't recognize you in the street and clatter. You're over the head for failing to get me off that insider trading charge. Absolutely. Round of applause for Paul. Beautifully played. Beautifully played. 26 minutes after twelve, Tim is in Colchester. Tim. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. It's to do with why we get more drunk on certain drinks and why we get more drunk if we mix our drinks, different drinks affect the bodies ability to absorb the alcohol within them. They have things in them called congeners which block the. You're in the trade on you. Yes, yes, I remember. Yes. Carry on. In fact, haven't you made something of a sideline in answering alcohol related mystery our questions, Tim? I believe so, yes. What that about me? I'm not entirely sure. I love it. Go on. What were they called again? Coco congena. C o n g e n e r s. Yep. And they're like catalysts, almost. They change the way you react to the alcohol or process the alcohol. They block the body's ability to absorb alcohol. When doctors talk about how much alcohol the body can absorb in a certain period of time, they're always assuming that the alcohol is 100% pure, laboratory grade e style alcohol, which, of course, it never is. So, for example, you get more drunk on whiskey, or you get drunk quicker. And your body has a more adverse effect with whiskey, for example, than it does with vodka, because whiskey has more congeners in it than vodka, and red wine has more congeners in it than white wine. Normal rule of thumb is the darker the drink, the more difficulty the body will have absorbing the alcohol in it. So when I tell misses O'Brien that drinking neat vodka on the rocks is practically medicine, I'm completely correct? Yeah, yeah. It depends how much of it you drink, of course. Sorry to be a spoilsport. You sound like her. Now, I'm going to give you a round of applause. And that also explains why when you mix your drinks, you get a different reaction, because your congena levels are inconsistent you're getting different. You're introducing different things to different drinks. That's a lovely answer. Qualifications, Tim. Although I think I know. Wine and spirit education trust diploma, which is like a two year degree in wines and spirits. I see. That's what I call a diploma. Great work, Tim. Oh, and yes, Dave is in Chichester. Dave, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Good morning. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to you, sir. What have we got? It's about the chalkboard. Fingernails on the chalkboard on the blackboard. Why does it. Why does it get under our skin so profoundly? Because it's not the same sound, but it's at exactly the same pitch as a human scream of pain. No. Yeah. Really? Yeah. Give me a chance, mate. You know those for the surprise qualifications, Dave. I got it off mystery hour a few months ago. Oh, no. Embarrassing short term memory. Shot to pieces. Saw that neat vodka drink. Give Dave a round of applause. It is, isn't it? It is the same pitch as a human scream. It's a sort of evolutionary response. The same way that a baby scream goes through you like a. Like a dose of salts. Dave. Well played. Cheeky beggar. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. More mystery error on the way. Need some answers, but we're picking them off with some effect this week. Simon Conway's here next with your headlines. Nicola Sturgeon has confirmed a consultation. Brian on LBC. You are indeed listening to mystery. Our questions still in need of answers include the. Actually, we've done pretty much everything. Drunkenness, decimal points, kind of hunky dory. Origin of the phrase hunky dory. Remember, you're not allowed to look stuff up, which means we've got room for more questions as well. Andrew's in reigate. Andrew, question or answer a correct answer. Oh, stewards inquiry. Oh, yes. Go on, then. The lawyers wigs. Yes. It's not a disguise. You'd wear a balaclava if you wanted to disguise yourself. Well, not in court, you wouldn't. You look shitty. It's pure fashion. Came from the restoration with Charles II. He brought the wigs over. Lawyers started to wear them after the rest of the population and they never stopped. They never stopped after french revolution, because of the powder tax, people stopped wearing their powdered wigs. Law barristers and judges continued. That's it. This is quite. You put me in quite a tricky position on this. Not only because I think you're probably right, but Dave and Chichester got his answer from this program, so it's sort of doubly embarrassing. Well, I wasn't listening the first time around, I guess. What are your qualifications? Barrister and a part time judge. Yeah, all right. I'm going to cover up my embarrassment by doing another Rayleigh. At the moment, I'm Ray Liotta, and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I'm not gonna argue this. If you build it, they will come. Well done, your honor. Round of applause for my learned friend. We better change the archive as well. Dave, you can keep your round of applause. You just got done by a lawyer. Not for the first time. Adams in Southgate. Adam Questioner. Actually, I've got some phone lines free. We need more questions. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Okay, so get your question on the board as soon as possible. Where are we going next? Adam is in Southgate. Adam, question or answer? Question. James. Go on, then. I was listening to the mystery, our podcast, actually, last night, the special one from, I think, last Friday. Oh, we're Jonesy engineer in the chair. Wasn't that fantastic? Well, no, hang on a minute. I thought it was good because it only happened once. I mean, it wouldn't be funny if we did it on occasion. Of course. His last day, tomorrow. Anyway, I was looking at my phone, and actually, I thought for a second, why is always the play button on a phone at a triangle? The stop button, a square and the pause button? Two vertical lines. Yes. And I was just thinking, like, you look at those symbols and they instantly mean play, stop and pause. But where do they come from? Or what was the first instance of that being used for? So it will come from really, really old tape machines. I mean, the arrow for play is the triangle. That's just the direction, isn't it, that the tape will be moving in? I guess, but the square is for stop and the little sort of things for pause. Crikey. That's quite an esoteric question. What are the origins of the symbols on recording devices to denote each function? Yeah, basically. I like it. Hopefully, it's an answer somewhere. Well, there has to be an answer somewhere, and it's relatively modern technology, so it won't be lost in the mists of time. I like that. I like that a lot. Well played. Thank you. It's Jones's last day tomorrow. I mentioned it and you didn't care, but could you pretend that you do very briefly? It's gonna be very sad when you go, Jones and, you know, have a good time after LBC. Yeah, well done. It could have been a little more sincere, but, hey, it's the thought that counts. So, Hale is in Dubai. Sahel, how are you? Hello, James. How are you? Moss and grumble. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Yeah. Why do we only feel tick? Well, generally only feel ticklish in certain parts of our body, like our neck and under the arm. It's nerve endings, isn't it? It's where your nerve endings are. You haven't got nerve endings everywhere. Is that right? Yeah, of course. Okay. Well, I was going to weigh in on the judges weak thing as well, because. No, you're not. No, you're not. Two things, pal. Wait, come here a minute. Number one, I just gave you a definitive answer and you sounded actually ungrateful. Sorry, James. Very great. Let's do it again. It's nerve endings, mate. It's all about the nerve endings. What about them? I mean, I'm getting it. You just said nerve endings. Yeah, nerve endings. Niblets. Niblets. What? How does that explain why I feel ticklish on my neck but not, you know, you got more nerve endings. The more. The more nerve endings you've got on a part of your body, the more ticklish you'll be. So I've got more nerve endings in my neck, then? Is that basically it? Yeah. Well, think about it, you know, it's a lot going on in your neck. A lot more than there is in your knee. No, don't, please, James. Also. Also, I think the. The bones, bones, bones play a part. Bones, bones and nerve endings. Bones and nerve endings, mate. It's all about bones and nerve endings. Okay, all right. That's your mate ringing to tell you that I'm right. It is, yeah. Actually, I'm not going to get a round of applause. Oh, no, I can't even. I haven't got the front to take a round of applause for this one. What explains ticklishness? Various parts of your body, the origins of those symbols on recording devices for play stop and pause. Kind of gone it on the wigs, haven't we? That was a bit awkward. And I still think there's more on the decimal point question, but I've already given out a round of applause. You can pile in on that one if you want, otherwise you've got another question. Zero. 345-606-0973 from Dubai to Skipton. That's where Mohammed is. Mohammed. Question or answer? I have an answer. Carry on, mo, for the drinking question. Well, we've kind of done that already, did you. I must have been, like, on the line. That's all right. I mean, let me hear you. I have to warn you that the fellow who provided the answer had a diploma in booze. Not quite, but. Right. Well, yeah, it doesn't have any effect. It doesn't make a difference. It doesn't make you any more drunk. But the reason why perhaps. Well, this is why we postulated that. The reason why is because you mistime your drinks. It's all about congeners, mo. Yeah, it's all about congeners. Right. Well, we. Look, I might not be able to argue with this guy, but we looked it up three months, three years ago when we were drinking. You know, the good british drink frosty jacks, which has cider and vodka in it? I'll have to tell your word for that, young man. My palate's far too rarefied for such. Such poisons. Okay, but, yeah, when we looked it up, it said that mixing alcohol doesn't actually make any difference. It just might upset your stomach a little bit, and that could be the only reason why you might feel a little bit more ill. Maybe, but I'm going with the congenital. So what you've got in drinks, you've got congenital. So look for a fact, a matter of fact historical record. If I drink x amount of whiskey and x amount of vodka separately, I respond very differently. I'm a much, much, much more belligerent drunk on whiskey than I am on vodka. So there must be something going on. And the answer is congenital. Think of it like you're a physicist, aren't you? Not a biologist. Are we doing this? I told you I got a b in physics last time, after. After my last question. But still, it's not bad, you know, it's better than. Better than a c, much better than a D. So think of a congena like a sort of form of catalyst, and they have different levels. Catalyst? Is that a word? It is now catalysis. Different levels of catalysis. Right. Leading to paralysis. Different levels of catalysis. So that you drink it. And the way that the body absorbs the alcohol is affected by the congenas. So ultimately, there might not be that much difference, but during the period of intoxication, you'll feel quite a lot of difference according to what you've drunk, whether you've mixed it, and how many congenas it's got in it. Congenis. Congenial. Congenius. Congenius. I feel congenially educated. Well played, Mo. Phil's in sail. Phil. Question or answer. Hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on, Phil. Well, when we watch the Olympics or the world championships, somebody always seems to break a record for running. And I wondered whether, as people get faster over time, do animals such as greyhounds and grey saucers get faster? Round of applause for Phil. That's such a good question. Horses, I guess, would be the easiest to check. And I suspect that might actually be the answer there. The answer might be only if someone's trying to make them go faster, if you see what I mean. Only because you wouldn't. You try and make them go faster anyway, their race horses. That's what I mean. So you. So you'd breed from a successful racehorse, wouldn't you, and hope that it would sire something even faster? Yeah, but that's not going to happen in the wild because there's not going to be any. Well, there's natural selection, I suppose. The faster you are, the more likely you are to procreate. If you're. Why am I even talking? I haven't got a clue. Phil, it's a brilliant question. It's an absolutely brilliant question. Do animals get faster over time like humans do? Yeah. Is there a Usain bolt of the animal world? We'll find out. Well played, Phil. Sam is in Twickenham. Sam, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I was wondering. Yeah, what T Rex used its arms for. Tyrannosaurus Rex used its arms for best guess, obviously, but I mean, think about it. Yeah. Small and useless. Not useless. They'd like cutlery. Cutlery? Yeah. Think about it. If you're a T rex and you've just killed a diplodocus. Hocus pocus. I'm a diplodocus. You just killed a diplodocus. How are you going to tear out his entrails with big, rippy claws? Not that I'm standing up. They're my feet. I'm not gonna lie down. I've got a diploidokas. I need to tear out its liver. I'm going in with my little funny little hands. My Tyrannosaurus rex hands. Oh, that'd be helpful. Of course it would be helpful. What? I mean, no, they're tiny. They're better than nothing. Well, why does he have big arms? You might as well have nothing. Doesn't need. Doesn't need them. Doesn't need them. Evolution has delivered him tiny little arms because they do everything he needs. Doesn't need big arms. He's like Donald Trump with his tiny little hands. Well, actually, I have very big arms. Very big hands. I'm not going to do that. You can't make jokes about Donald Trump's hands anymore. Now you know what he does with them. I'm going to give myself a round of applause for that because I like the question. Well, no, obviously they are useful for, like, cutlery or, I mean, you try. What would you rather have? Tiny arms or no arms? But I'd rather have big arms. But you don't. That's not the choice. Tiny arms or no arms. So why did they evolve small ones? It's like, don't need big ones. They don't need big ones. It was. It was. It was an ultimate predator. Tyrannosaurus. Nothing came after Tyrannosaurus rex. So everything is about pursuing and consuming prey. That's everything. They're like a lean, mean killing machine and they don't need big arms. The George foreman of predators. The George foreman of prehistoric predators. Thanks, Sam. There you go. There may be room for expansion on that answer. I doubt it. But, hey, you never know. Simon's in Horsham. Simon, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Simon, I want to know, when you open the door window, does the heat escape or does the cold come in? Oh, man, that's like a riddle. I thought. James, I've called you for. Won't it be both? Won't it be both? Why does it have to be one or the other? Well, it could. I don't know. You have to tell me, then. Does the heat escape or does the cold get. It's convection, isn't it? Is it? Is it convection? I don't even know what that means. I just got a word. I plucked it from a GCSE. That's sort of nearly 30 years ago. Yeah. All right. When you open a window, does the heat escape or does the cold come in? It's both, but I don't. Well, I'm just burbling now. I'll tell you what, you drive carefully, I'll get you an answer before 01:00 Simon. Thank you very much. Thank you. 1245, this is LBC. Here is Tom Watts with your travel news. LBC, it's 1249. How we doing? What do we need answers to? The symbols on recording devices for play stop and pause. Where do they actually come from? Why are some parts of our body more ticklish than others? Do animals get faster over time like humans have? And the T Rex, why does he have such little arms? I think I've dealt with that. Darrell's in Chelmsford. Darryl, question or answer? It's. An answer. Well, it's a sort of continuation of your answer, James, about the dinosaurs. Yeah, I thought I pretty much covered that, mate. To be honest with you, with the tiny little arms. It's the same sort of reason scorpions have very small claws when they're really poisonous, because they no longer need the big claws to be very, very dangerous or to capture or kill their prey, so they develop smaller ones over time. So the same reason the T. Rex developed a very large head and a very small arm, no longer used them as a weapon. So it developed a very powerful bite because that was its primary means of. Of catching prey. Therefore that one was more likely to evolve or breed and carry on that sort of. That's that line, that lineage. Beautifully, beautifully done. What, um. What are your qualifications? I have two sons who both very, very much like dinosaurs. Round of applause for them, actually. You pass that on to them, all right? They told me. No, I mean the round of applause. I don't want you keeping it. You pass it on to your boys. All right? Thank you very much. I love the regret in his voice. Charles is in Lewisham. Charles. Question or answer? Hello, mate. Oh, mate. It's a steward's inquiry. You can't have the answer. Everything being nerve endings, mouth ulcers. Wrong. What? Your mouth's got a lot of bacteria. What? Yeah, it's bacteria. Bacteria in the mouth. It gets ulcer. You bite it, it's infected. I mean, it's like crocit, isn't it? Bacteria. It's like it's dying. That sort of thing around the ulcer gives you a lot of pain. So all ulcers. All ulcers will begin with a sort of lesion which then gets slightly infected. Yeah, or something. Yeah, something like that. Yeah. But your body's. Your body's crying out in the pain there, how dangerous that is because there's a lot of bacteria in your mouth. Human bites, lethal, you know. What are your qualifications? You know the bonjella advert? Yeah. You know the thing covering up the little ulcer? Yeah. That's why it gives us. Gives the body a chance to heal. So, good. Say, I've taken notice of the bonjella advert. There you go. Another oral preference of good as well, you know. Round of applause. Name another one, then. Name another. Oral preparation. Steady on. This is a family program. I'm talking about ulcer treatments. Can you put germaline in your mouth? We're getting into trouble now. Stop it. Scratch it. Forget it, forget it. Charles, you got his round of applause. Move along, please. Nothing to see here. Faze in Ucfield. Faye, question or answer? It's an answer. Please, James, carry on. Well, you were right with an answer about a year ago to the hunky dory. I've been right since as well. You make it sound as if I've been right once in a year, Faye. No, we obviously hadn't remembered that you got this question right, but didn't take the round of applause when the hunky, from the hunky dory refers to home, dutch word, and it was used in about 19th century America for meaning, you know, everything's all right, hunker down, you know, be home and everything's fine. I like that. And you just remember this from mystery, do you? No, because I've looked up hunky dory years before. Good. For my own benefit, to find out what it means. And it comes from the Dutch, which fits with America, because, of course, they colonized it in many ways before we did. Yeah, like hunker down. And I think it was used in baseball terminology, hunker down becomes hunky dory, everything. So you hunk at hunky dory, everything's great. Hunky dory. Because I looked it up in connection with tickety boo. Well, yeah, dory and tickety boo. What's tickety? Those two meanings. Where does tickety boo come from? While you're here, I think it's Hindi again, meaning, you know, satisfactory. Everything's tickety boo. Hunky dory. Hunky dory. I'm trying to say it in a dutch accent. Just let me channel my inner Steve McLaren. Hunky dory. Hunky dory. Yes, I think you're right. And you must be. Round of applause for Faye. I don't think they knew where the dory bit came from. Oh, hang on. You should have waited until you got your round of applause. I like what you did there, Faye. Yeah, just half. Yeah, you just took the full round of applause and then halfway through it, you said, I've only provided half an answer, so, hunky dory, hunker down, hunky dory. Dory. Gold. Gold. All right, you've had your applause. If anyone can add to it, they've got six minutes to do. So mind how you go, Faye. Thank you. No, thank you. Hazel is in Bracknell. Hazel, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Do chickens have taste buds? What makes you think they might not? Well, because I've had three batches of chickens over the last five years. We've spoken before, haven't we, about chickens? I don't know. I've been waiting for ages to ask this question. Never get on. No. I mean, have we not spoken to. Do I not speak to you when I was a chicken? Fancy. I had chickens. No. Someone in Bracknell gave me chicken advice. Was it not you? No. Big and big. A lot of chickens in Bracknell. Clearly, it's a case of mistaken identity. Go on. You had three batches of chickens? Yeah. My first lot used to love mixed corn lot, didn't this lot that I've got now don't. But they like corn flakes and rice Krispies. This lot leaked any peelings that you give them, but my other two lots didn't. So I'm just wondering, is it a color thing or. I don't know. Or do they just have taste buds and some like it and some don't? You're on. Do chickens have taste buds? You would think so if you've got chickens that demonstrate different preferences. But we need a chicken expert to bring in and tell us. Hazel. Thank you. Phil's in Ashford. Phil, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on, Phil. With the heat going out of the window or does the cold come in? Yes. The temperature and pressure are related, so obviously with the hotter air is at higher pressure, so when the window is open, the heat transfers over to the outside, where it's colder because it's less pressure and it can make its way forward. And cold is just an absence of heat, really, rather than something in and of itself. Yes. Yeah, that's it. So that's what kind of gets left behind, as it were. It's basically basic thermodynamics. I'll say that again. Say that again. Say that, say that again. Basic thermodynamics. Get in with your basic thermodynamics qualifications, Phil. I'm a refrigeration engineer. Boom. Life goal, complete bucket list, one shorter. Love it, love it, love it, love it. Basic thermodynamics. Neville's in Wimbledon. Hello, Neville. Hello. Question or answer? Question, please. As a lousy golfer, I wonder why golf courses usually have 18 holes and not 20 or 15 miles. Just seems an odd number. It probably just started with the first golf course, didn't it? And then everybody else copied it. I don't know. Where was the first golf course? In Scotland somewhere, probably, yeah. Okay. Why the golf courses have 18 holes. You're on. Okay. I like that a lot. Uh, Rob is in Manchester. Rob, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Really? You're pushing your luck at this time of night. Go on. No, I know, but somebody know this one. What it is, is when you look at the buttons on the calculator, the number ones at the bottom left. Yeah. And then you count up to the nine at the top. Right. Now look at your telephone. It's the other way around. Why is that? Why wouldn't it be? Well, presumably it sells twice as many keypads but can't think of a. Yeah, but the pad for your telephone is, is, has evolved from when the dial was round and one was the first number. Ah. Hasn't it? So you won. Will be top left on a key pack because your one was the first thing you dialed. Or zero was actually, wasn't it? Zero would take the longest to dial around. It'd be the first thing on the. On the thing. The first thing on the thing. That's probably not the most sophisticated. You what? It used to be a series of clicks. Didn't it be dial the nine? Yeah. Yeah. That's why I listen to you. Does that answer your question? I'm not sure it does. I thought it did, but Sheila Fogarty's got that skeptical look on her face. I've got a clue. I wouldn't pick a fight with her. Sound advice, sage advice. Thank you, Robert. Round of applause for me, please. We've got anything left today? How do I pronounce this? Anais is in Walton on Thames. Anais, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on. It's to do with the animals getting faster. Do they? Well, this all depends on whether it will promote their survival, but what people forget is that there are consequences to that. So if with a cheetah, when it gets faster, it will also have weaker ankles. So when it gets faster, it could also end up damaging itself. So if there's an evolutionary advantage in speed, it would be passed on and over generations, that would be replicated and it would become faster. So actually, this isn't really an answer to the question, is it? They're not just going to get faster forever, because again, that comes as a consequence. If you were in the middle of the savannah with a meat truck for hundreds of years, then it will benefit the ones that get to the truck first, not necessarily the ones that fastest. I'm going to give you a round of applause because I want to squeeze it. Give a nice round of applause. I quite like that. I feel we could have taken it further, but we're short of time. I'm going to squeeze Allen in from Bonds Street. Alan, question or answer. I've got an answer for you, James. Go on, mate. It's the golf question. Why do they have 18 holes in between the village and the ships or boats that used to go fishing? They only had enough room to build nine holes. They played nine on the way to work and nine on the way home after work. Hence 18 holes in Scotland? In Scotland, yeah. I'm going to take that as well. That's a lovely answer. Even if it's not true, I'm going to carry on believing that for the rest of my life. Thank you, Alan. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you'll hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. Now, the late french president Francois Mitterrand's love letters to the woman he called the chance of his life are beguiling France. And me too, if I'm honest. Have you sent or received a love letter? I want to know. I need to know from three and you can tweet them to me immediately. Eelafogarty, if you don't mind, after two, is it time to offer more services to help people who are attracted to children before they offend and after the news at one. The Care quality Commission is one of the few bodies that has a real clear sighted overview of the state of health and social care in this country. They are calling for.