Do trees stop cleaning the air in winter?

Hour with James O'Brien. It's four minutes after twelve. It's Thursday. It's mystery hour. Oh, let joy be unconfined. This is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else. On your radio dial. You have a question bubbling away somewhere in the back of your brain. It is a question to which you're pretty sure there must be an answer. But you don't know what that answer is. You may have searched. You may not have searched. It may be an answer that would be easily findable. But that's not the point of mystery hour. The point of mystery hour is as much about the journey towards our destination as it is about the destination itself. So a, you're not allowed to look stuff up, ever, b, don't be dull, ever, and c, pay attention. Whenever I say the phone number, it means there are phone lines free. If there are phone lines free, you can ring in either with a question or if you've heard somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer. You know where I'm going with this, don't you? Yeah. Yeah. You can ring in with the answer, the number you need. Zero. 345-606-0973 right on the money. Do you see that? Taken me years to perfect that. Absolute, absolute synergy, symmetry, whatever you want to call it. That's it, really. So it's fun, this, if you're new to it, it's a bit like those newspaper and magazine features where somebody writes in with a question and somebody else writes in weeks later with an except you get your answer here pretty much immediately, or at least by 01:00 if you ask a question that we've already dealt with. To be honest with you, as I glance at the colleagues assembled for today's mystery hour, none of them are going to know, frankly, the stuff we've been doing for you. Keith might, because Keith's only recently joined the team, however, he is a mystery hour listener of many, many, many years standing. He likes to listen with his mum. They even download the podcast for long car journeys. Little bit of advice for you there. So we'll rely on Keith for repetition, but we can't be as hard and fast with it as we used to be. There is a rather splendid archive on the LBC website where you can see questions that have been dealt with in the past, and it gives you a slight sense to, if you're new to it, of the kind of stuff that we cover, the kind of stuff that we do. Lines two and three are currently clear, because the people that were occupying them moments ago have been sent away with a very polite flea in their ear. Their questions were either rubbish, repetitious or dull. If it's a question about motoring, put your phone away. It's highly unlikely that that will get through. That's pretty much the only rules I can give you if you are answering a question and when I ask what your qualifications are, because you have to provide me with something that makes your answer credible. It could be something as simple as having seen it on telly last night, or it could be the fact that you're the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, who is our most decorated mystery act contributor. But if your qualifications are unbelievable, unbelievably relevant, in other words, if it's a question about, I don't know, cat's eyes in the road, and you are the bloke what invented cat's eyes in the road, then you will receive the most glittering prize that british radio has to offer. I mean, a mystery hour round of applause. That's up there. That's big. That's huge. People have been known to fight in the streets over a mystery hour round of applause. But the biggest prize of all is the Rayliota, and that is something that we will reserve for contributors whose qualifications for their contribution are breathtakingly strong. It's not unique to Mister error, although I think we give out more in this hour than we do in the rest of the week's output combined. But it means that if you ring in to answer a question that you are brilliantly qualified to answer, you may get a radiota. If you're wondering what that is, you're going to have to carry on wondering until somebody actually secures. 112 o eight is the time. Tom is in Lewisham. Tom, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Tom. When football clubs buy or sell a player, they have to undergo medical. And I was wondering who performs the medical? Is it in house from the selling club or from the buying club? Or do they have an association medics, that go round and do the medical? So, I mean, I'm poised to giggle at you a bit, if you don't mind. Well, just a little bit, because. What do you want to buy? A car, mate. Yeah. Do you want to look under the bonnet? Do you want to look under the bonnet or do you want to take my word for it that it is absolutely super powered? Yeah, but this is what I mean, who does the medical? So it's not going to be just the seller. I think we can probably work that out from the start. Otherwise, you know, otherwise I'd be playing for. For Chelsea. So obviously they arrange. So the buyer does some sort of medical. But is there or not? I mean, and if the buyer's doing a medical, you wouldn't need an outside agency to do it, because you want to buy the player and you want him to be fit, but if he isn't, you're not going to buy him. You don't need. I would have thought it's just the buy. Why do you want to know? I'm just intrigued. Who have you got your eye on? Who have you got your eye on? No one. For Kidderminster, Harriet flog, everybody at the moment. I'm still. I still don't. You know, I'm not guaranteed. I don't. No, no. Someone will definitely know if a famous footballer rings in or a famous manager rings, we'll give him a Ray Liotta. So it could. It could be double bubble this. But if it's. I mean, if it's. If it's the buyer, I will give you the money myself. Because that would be like Brexit, wouldn't it? Be like buying a car on the chase of a bunch of snake oil salesmen and con artists. A bit late now, lads. Samantha's in Watford. Samantha, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Okay. I was once told that if you buy bottles of wine with a concaved bottom, there is a better quality wine and therefore you won't get a hangover, as opposed to the bottles of wine that have a flat bottom. So now when I go shopping, I pick up bottles wine, I touch the bottom of the bottle of wine and if it's flat, I put it back and I don't know if I'm wasting my time. What's the price? Have you noticed a price difference between the four? There is not much price difference, but also, why have some bottles wine got concave and some flat? Well, you're only allowed. You're only allowed one question. Well, it's the same question, really, isn't it? There must be a reason for the concave and flat. I don't. I mean, this is going to make me sound incredibly rare ified, Samantha, but I don't know that I've ever drunk wine out of a bottle that has a flat bottom. You maybe didn't realize. I must have done, mustn't I? Do you know what it's called? You must have done. Do you know it's called a punt. One of my favorite words. No one knows this. A punt. The concave bit, the dimple. It's called a punt. And you want to know whether or not the punt mean the depth of the punt is related to the quality of the wine. Yes. So I need to secure my wine drinking versus hangovers and I need to know if I'm wasting my time. Yeah. I mean, I don't know that there's a relationship between the quality of the wine and the hangover, necessarily. Unless you're drinking absolute toilet water, drink some real plonk, then you're more likely to get a hangover. I don't know. I barely ever touch the stuff myself. I live mostly on crushed kale. Okay. So I sit down of an evening with a. With a small bowl of locusts drinking a kale juice. I shall find out for you. There's got to be something in it. I'm 99% certain it's called a punt. If it's not called a punt, I apologize in advance. Does the punt on the bottom of a bottle indicate the quality of the wine and. Or. I'm going to allow Samantha her cheeky supplementary and or the nature of the quality, the quantity of the hangover? There should be a measure of her hangovers. That's a great one, actually, isn't it? That could be it. So, you know, like, you've got a Richter scale and you've got Celsius and you've got all those other measures, metrics. Centimeters, meters, millions. There should be one for hangovers. What would be that? What would be the. Why are you shaking your head at me? This is really good fun. What's the unit of measurement for a hangover? So you say, oh, man. Eight stogies or something like that. I don't know. No, just me. Garrett's in Chelmsford. Garrett, quick, I'm making a fool of myself. Interrupt. Hi, James. Quick question. Yes. Do trees clean the air in winter when they don't have any leaves? No. Oh, that's quick. I mean, because there's no photosynthesis. And photosynthesis is the process by which trees absorb carbon dioxide and release oxygen. So I can't see how without leaves, I mean, an evergreen tree would, but a deciduous tree could. I don't think. I'm not going to give myself a round of applause, but if photosynthesis is the process that we're talking about, photosynthesis needs chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is present in leaves. It's only present in live leaves. What are green. Ergo, there can't be any photosynthesis without green leaves. In the absence of green leaves, there's no photosynthesis. In the absence of photosynthesis, there's no transformation of carbon dioxide into oxygen. I think. You do? Well, I don't know. I don't know because you know me, modesty is my middle name. So I shall leave that on the board and wait to see if somebody else brings it in. Andrew's in Suffolk. Andrew, question or answer? Hi. I've got a question for you, James. Carry on. When I grew up in London, I used to have to take the underground train with my brother, the Piccadilly line, into South Kentucky. I was caught and the train does a sort of big loop. And he used to tell me that that was because there was a plague burial pit that they had to go around rather than through. Brother didn't always tell the absolute truth. I don't want to sound ungrateful for your call, which I enjoy, but have you not thought of asking him, is he still with us? Well, I don't think he would be any more reliable now. So if he was yanking your chain in 1978, he would be yanking your chain in 2019. Yeah. It's stubborn. I like that question a lot. There's Sloane Square, which isn't on the Piccadilly line, obviously, but it's one along on the district and circle on Sloan Square. There's a river above the platform. I don't know if you've ever noticed, there's a massive pipe, which is actually a redirected river, that they are a redirected river that they had to kind of tunnel under and then. And then keep in place. So I love information like that. And we know there are a lot of plague pits, but whether or not that is a reason why the Piccadilly line between South Kensington and Earls court takes a peculiar turn, I do not know. So I will put it on the board for you. It's a lovely question. Thought, you know, I would have believed that one, but. Oh, really? Oh, but there's plague pits everywhere. I. I mean, I might. My instinct is, and I know a little bit about such matters, my instinct is they wouldn't have minded. They'd have plowed on regardless, right through the plague pit. That's my. That. What's the what? Someone's just said the word myth in my ear. What's a myth? The Sloan square. Right? No, no, we're getting distracted now, Keith, just because you're a regular listener doesn't mean you can just join in. Seriously, Jones, the engineer, was six years in this job before we started trying to provide answers on mystery. Andrew, I will try and find out. Well, I will find out. Well, I'll put it on the board. Is there a plague pit in South Kensington? Is that why the Piccadilly line, which goes quite deep, actually. Deep. Do you know what's most interesting about or not? Most interesting, but when I was about to start talking about the depth of the plague pits and I stopped myself, because the ground sinks, you build a house in London, it starts sinking almost immediately. It's only relatively recently with underpinning and foundations. And when you see a big skyscraper being built in the city, they'll dig an enormous hole before they build it. Until relatively recently, probably this century, you can still see it in parts of London where what is now the front door would have been a first floor window. And what was the front door is now the basement. You think I'm making this up? You probably witnessed it yourself. The houses will sink. And if you really. There's a brilliant book. Actually, it's 1216 and I'm trying to hit my junctions on time for this week at least. This is LBC. It's garden seven three. It is. It's a river. Seriously, a river in a pipe going over the platform at Sloane Square station. But is there a plague pit between South Kensington and Earl's Court, which explains the Piccadilly line's rather circuitous route? Do trees stop converting carbon dioxide into oxygen during the winter when they have no leaves? Is there a relationship between the depth of the punt on the bottom of a wine bottle? That's the fancy pants term for the large dimple and the quality of the wine and or the hangover that ensues. And who does football as medicals? The club that he's leaving, the club that he or she is joining, or an independent body? Any of those. David is in Evesham, in Worcestershire. David, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, David. Right. So the other week I was having a shave, and because I'm a modern man, I put a bit of moisturizer on afterwards. And as I was doing that, my wife walked past. She said, what a very big bathroom. Well, the door was open. Oh, I see. So I was putting moisturizer on it in a downward fashion. Yes. And she said, what on earth are you doing? You're not supposed to do that. You've got to put it on in an upwards fashion, otherwise your skin will sag. And then she went further and said, you've got to dab it on with your ring finger around your eyes because the skin's too sensitive there. But it's mainly the upwards motion thing. And I wonder whether that was a. A true thing or not. Yeah, I don't think it sounds a bit dark to me. No offense to, but I do. I do a very vigorous. I mean, I do a very vigorous manipulation of all die do circular motions quite, quite robustly. Is that bad? Yeah. So, I don't know. Did it make your skin sag if you put it on that, do you think? Okay, well, I know it's one of those modern life tales. The thing about a couple of metrosexuals like us, David, is that we generally just go with our instincts. Instructions are for the birds, mate. I mean as in the figure of speech. Not as. Not as in a. Not as in a slightly blokish synonym for females. This is all going horribly wrong. You're all too nice there. Let's find out. Is it true you have to moisturize upwards? 0345-6060 what else do you do? What else is part of your raise? That's it. Brush your teeth occasionally. Brush your teeth occasionally. Right. 1222 is the time. Is there anything in that? I mean, I used to work on a makeup counter. I may have shared this with you in the past, although my responsibilities were chiefly fragrances. Steve Allen heard me yesterday taking the proverbial out of his perfume range, and he brought one of them in today. If I told you how much Steve Allen spends on his sense. Oh, Rabia is in Dubai. Rabia? Question or answer? Hi. I have an answer. And I waited years to possibly have an answer on mystery hour. Well, here we are. International mystery today, thanks to you. I know, I know. Not european anymore. You're international. Carry on. So the punt. I've never come across that term, actually, but that's what I'm here for. I bet you didn't know there was a river at Sloane Square station either, did you? No, that's you. Two things you've learned today. Two things you've learned. Well, there's not a lot to see. It's just a big pipe. I wouldn't make a special visit, so certainly not coming over from Dubai especially. But next time you are in Sloane Square, have a check it out. And there's a whopping great pipe going over the platform. Turns out contains a river. Back to the wine bottles and the punts. No, I have a flag in my map already. So it's the way you serve wine in fancy restaurants, it's the depth of it will correspond to how big or how wide the bottle is. So in restaurants, they don't tip the bottle over like you and I would at home. They actually insert a thumb into that crevice and then balance the bottles on the base of it in the hands, and that's how they tip it over. But is there any relationship between the punt? Because that is actually how I pour wine. I don't enjoy presuming that I do it. I do it like a pleb. Is there a relationship between the punt and the quality of the wine? Because some bottles don't have any punt at all. They are puntless? Well, no, none that I've seen or come across in my studies. It's just that really, some champagne bottles play around with it. And also, if you get a bottle from Alsace, from Germany or the french side, because those bottles are taller, because they don't have shoulders, they're just very tapered, narrow neck. They might have a slightly deeper crevice or a magnum. Call it a crevice, call it a punt. Sorry, a punt. Sorry. I'm not sure if it's a punt, but seriously, would you think I'm just having a punt? It's a punt. What are your quality? I mean, you've alluded to some qualifications, so I ask with a degree of confidence, Rabia, what are your qualifications? Well, there's an association called the Wine spirit and Education Trust out of the UK, and they have five levels and I've done three of the five levels. So you're a sommelier? I can be, yes. If I didn't, if I like the hours, I could. But you're not doing it for work, you're doing it for fun. No, I'm just one of those people that has a PhD and everything. I can't. That's what I mean. You're doing it for the pleasure of. The pleasure of learning and knowledge and also the pleasure of drinking wine. But you're not employing this qualification in your work. No, I'm not. Good. I like it. I mean, I got a mate. He'll be listening, actually, so I'll give him a mention. Matthew, who lives in. In Dubai, and I was laboring under the illusion. It was really hard to get hold of booze out there. But he sent me a photograph recently. He sent me a small film recently of a special promotion of my favorite brand of vodka that was being undertaken in Dubai. And he knew I'd be interested to see it. You're kidding. This is a place to come to if you want to be absolutely legless. Well, I shall take that under advisement. In the meantime, you get a round of applause. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. But look up. Punt. Seriously, I don't make this stuff up. 1226 is the time. Um, quite a few people have been told by their wives or girlfriends that, um, you should moisturise upwards. I mean, actually, now that you mention it, it does actually ring a bell with me, but I can't believe that moisturizing downwards would actually cause any. Well, if you're doing it a lot. Anyway, Steve's in. Steven. Ah. Oh, man. You've no idea the pleasure that brings me. Steve. Hello, James. Hello. Steve in Stevenage. Oh, whatever floats your boat. Come on, man. Nice to speak to you. Guess who's on the other line? David and David in. David Stoke. Oh, really? No, I'm making that up. I might get a basin, basingstoke, but I've got Steven Stevenage. Not Pete from Peter brother. Well, one day I'm only going to take calls from people whose name is echoed in their location, but I haven't got the confidence to do it yet. Steven Stevenage. Question or answer? Steven Stevenage. I've got a question, please, James, carry on. There's a bit of background to it. Oh, yeah. It's something that's been baffling me a long time. And the question is, really, why doesn't the water put out a gas flame when it's cutting underwater? Because I don't know if you went to the same chemistry lessons that I did. I know that a flame needs oxygen to burn. Yeah. Gas cutter is basically a flame, so it's gas pumped through a pipe and I don't even know how they light it, but they use it underwater to cut a hole in the side of ships. And there'll be oxygen in the tank that the gas is in. Yeah, but the water still. So what? So how can you have an underwater flame is what you're asking? Yeah. Yeah. I've no idea. I didn't even know such a thing existed. But it must do, mustn't it? Otherwise you'd have no oil rigs. Yeah, well, my granddad was a deep sea diver. Was he? Yeah. And my dad always told me he was the first one to ever use an acetylene gas cutter underwater, so I never. Yeah. And I figured out why. Because he eventually got to recover some gold off of Jamaica, you know, in his. One of his commissions, you know. So, Crikey, what happened to the gold, Steve, do we know? I think he got a percentage. Like about 1%. It was an insurance recovery. And he was sent out on a. On a commission, like the 1930s, I think. Yeah. And so they went out and he found the ship, and the ship was obviously upside down, and they couldn't get at the gold. Right. But he knew which cabin it was in, and he worked out that he couldn't sort of dive under it, as it were, if he could get to it. He cut a hole in the ship. So they abandoned the. They abandoned the recovery and the salvage, and he come back to London. He lived in Chiswick as well, funny enough, but, yeah, he come back to London. Whereabouts? Do you know whereabouts since, is it? I don't, actually. Near the a four somewhere. Well, that doesn't narrow it down. Stephen Stevenage. Well, he's nowhere near Stevenage. I know that. But anyway, he went back two years later, after he figured out how to work this gas cutter underwater, and he cut a hole in the ship, and he brought the gold out and got his reward. So there you go, going for gold. He was, wasn't he? Yeah. I love it. I never saw any of it, obviously. Great story. I've forgotten the question. How do underwater cutters work? Gas cutters? Why doesn't the work? Yeah, I like that. Well, I was in Marrakesh last week, and there was a fountain in the hotel courtyard that had gas and water coming out, like a flame and water coming out of it. But that's not the same. High pressure or something, James. Yeah, but it's not underwater. It just. It was quite funky looking at nighttime. I'm just mentioning it because I feel a bit out anecdoted. Steve, you're just showing off. No way you were showing off, mate. You show you. I'm just trying to keep up, pal. With your fantastic family history. You should research your granddaddy. Be a book worth reading. Right? I've tried. And, you know, lots of photographs and pictures. Unfortunately, he died the year that I was born. I was three months old, so I don't think I even sat on his knee. But I'd love to have heard he lived a bit, didn't he? I shall try and get you an answer to your question about how underwater, oxy, acetylene, or whatever the correct phrase is, things can work, given that they're underwater. So you'd presume it would douse or extinguish the flame. Great stuff, Steve. Thank you. If. No, because you'll just make it up, won't you? You'll claim that you're called Dave and you're dag from Dagenham, chiz from Chiswick, Pete from Peterborough, Keith from Keithley. It's 1231. Philip Krisikos has your headlines. An italian national has pleaded guilty to assault. Seven three. It's 1236. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Who does the medicals for footballers who are transferring from one club to another. Do trees stop producing oxygen when they have no leaves on them? Zero. 345-606-0973 and is there a plague pit between South Kensington and Earl's court? Which explains why the Piccadilly line takes such a circuitous root? Have I missed any others? I think we're all right. Are we on those? Oh, and the underwater gas thing. Of course. Steven. Stevenage and moisturizer. Why have I stopped writing stuff down? Is it true that you have to moisturise upwards? And how do underwater flames on cutters. How do they work? Given that we would expect them to be extinguished by the fact that they're underwater, that is, by the water. 1236 is the time Sarah is in Battersea. Question or answer, Sarah? It's an answer. James. Carry on. The footballers medicals? Yes. It's the club that's buying them. Doctor Sarah. Carry on, doctor Sarah. If you make him have a do with buying a house, as the purchaser, you're in charge of the asset. So it's you that gets the survey done? Yes. So it's the buying club that will do all the medicals and that's cardiac and a musculoskeletal review. And after the survey, if it turns out that things are a lot worse than originally represented, you would pull out and not go ahead with the deal? Absolutely. Unless. Unless it's Brexit. Yeah. Well, yeah. Let's not go there. No, let's not go there. Qualifications? I used to be one of the Arsenal medical team. I was their radiologist and part of that role was reviewing the by the purchased players MRI scan. Did anyone ever get turned down? Did anyone ever lose, fail the medication? Not on my watch, no. When did you stop doing that? I'm just trying to think of what players you might have examined. Well, I can't tell you, unfortunately, but five or six years ago, you can't tell me because of non disclosure type stuff, patient confidentiality type stuff. But you can tell me who, because you were a doctor at Arsenal and I know the players that came. So they all got checked by you, didn't they? Well, pretty much, yeah. There you go. That kind of stopped five or six years ago, so pretty much Arsenal's heyday. I was. Fair enough. It's only since you left, it's all gone downhill. Well, I like to think that so does Wenger, but you've got a much more powerful case than he does. Round of applause for Sarah, please. Great work. I like that. It's a bit obvious, I felt. That's why I was giggling at the fellow who asked the original question over in Lewisham. But you know me, I don't like to be rude to callers unless they're racists. Andy's in Solihull. Andy, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. Andy, how is the thermometer calibrated? I was thinking, with the hot weather the other day when it was 21.2 degrees or something. Yeah. And I thought, well, there's no constant to calibrate the thermometer like there is its size. If you've got something that's a kilogram, you can measure against something else. Yeah, but temperature is always moving and so how do you know your thermometers? Right. All right. I don't know if Calib. I think I do, yeah. I mean, it's calibrate. Quite the right word. It kind of is, but you're thinking more, how do you test. How do you test it? How do you check the temperature thermometers? Accurate. If you're making scales, you could have something there which, you know, weighs a kilogram. So you can put that on. It will say 1. So, you know. Yep. Miss Gail's work. Yeah, I think this is a good question. It might not be. We'll soon find out. Oh, it is. No, it definitely is. Well, no, I mean, you don't get to say that yourself because you asked it. You've got, like, a parental interest in this. It's, you know, I'm objective and I'm saying I think it's a good question, but it might not be. Yeah, but we'll see. We will. We'll find out. Zero. 345-606-0973 how do you check a thermometer? Why do underwater flames work? Is it true you have to moisturize upwards? Something about plagues, trees and. We've done the football. Daniel is in Huddersfield. Daniel, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Daniel. It's for the underwater welding. Oh, yeah. The acetylene torch works underwater because it's oxy acetylene, and it provides its oxygen. So the oxygen provides both the ignition heat source and the fuel. So it's two parts of the fire triangle itself. Kind of what I said, but a bit cleverer. Is there? No, there's no. Someone suggested, someone very cheeky on Twitter, who has stolen somebody else's Twitter account in hilarious fashion, has suggested that you create a sort of bubble around the flame, in effect. Yes, but it's the oxygen that's doing that. Yeah. So you're both right, but you get the qualifications. I blend breathing gases for technical scuba divers. Seriously? Yes. It's. I have a. I have two jobs, but that is one of them. How many people do you think in the country do that? Roughly? In this country, I would imagine. I don't know, 50 people, 50 dive centers, maybe. Maybe more. But I do my work on the Red Sea. Can I give a shameless plug to the company? Absolutely. Well, yeah, of course you can, yeah. That is tech deep in Haggadah in. In Egypt. And you. You. You mix the gases that go into the tanks for cutting? Yes. Scuba divers can't. So you're not doing the oxy acetylene stuff itself, you're just doing the tanks for the scuba divers? No, but the. The gas blender course actually teaches about fires underwater and such things, so you have to study it in order to get the qualification. Keith says no, mate. So you get a round of applause, but you don't get a ray li. Otter. I know. He's a half judge. You should see that head shake. Seriously. It's like a referee. Thank you, Paul. That's good work, though. I like that. And if he's mixing the gas for the tanks that the scuba divers are using to breathe, then he can't have one, can he? If he was. If he was. It's all very well doing the same course, but you want to speak to someone who's actually putting together the. God nearly swore then, putting together the stuff for the actual cutting. Good work, Daniel. Paul is. And anyway, he got a plug for his business, so he should be happy. Paul is in Croydon. Paul, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why are barges. I was up in London the other day and I saw two barges being pulled up by a tug, and the tide was against them, and the pressure under the barge to pull these on the tug to pull these barges up the Thames, the water was going everywhere. Why are they square? Why did they not have pointed edges? It would be easier for them to go through the water. The amount of energy you to pull these barges against. The tide was massive. Yeah. I was thinking, well, a ship's that pointed edges, why the barges why are they called barges? Barges? Yeah. I haven't got a clue why they call barges. Where else do you use the word barge? Barge. When you barge into something, obviously, and, you know, they crash into things and. Yeah. So what would happen to the ship if the barge had a pointed edge when it barged into it? You could still. You could still put protection around the front of a boat. It's not like they're going that fast, is it? Do you know what I mean? But I think I'm 99 sure the answer to the question is going to be that if you are using the vessel to bang into other vessels, to steer them through difficult waters and harbors and ports, if you had a pointed front on it, you'd sink the thing, mate. You reckon it's better than anything you've come up with, Paul? No, it is good, but I'm still not convinced. I can't see the energy used to pull that through the Thames. It is a lot of energy, but they've got nuts engines, haven't they, these parties? They're like something out of robot wars. They've got so much power under the. Under the. Under the proverbial bonnet. But that must be the answer. It can't be another answer. Paul, come on, Paul. Come on, mate. Well, I'll have to accept that. It's got to be, hasn't it? Because a lot of the stuff, they're much, much more likely, whether you wanted to or not, to make contact at the point of the prow with the vehicle being tugged or barged. And if they did that with a pointy prow, then you'd have problems that you're not going to have with a flat prowess. Well, I'll accept that. I'm taking a round of applause for that. You will? No, I am. Don't shake your heads up. You will get me one day, but you're not getting me today, Paul. Round of applause for me. Thank you very much. That must be it. And that is also why they are called barges, because they do a lot of barging. Coming up at one on LBC. Sheila 73. It's 1248. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. There's a few things that still need answers. Can we get rid of some of these questions that we're not going to have time for? How do you calibrate a thermometer? How do you check that it's working? We've done the underwater stuff. Is it true you have to moisturize upwards? Is there a plague pit in South Kensington. That explains why the piccadilly line goes around the houses and the trees question, do trees stop producing oxygen when they ain't got no leaves? George is in Elstead. George, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, George. As to your trees question. Oh, good. Yeah. So the answer, if you're talking about oxygen, then trees, as you said, don't photosynthesize in winter, so they won't pull out oxygen. But in terms of other pollution, which I think the chap who asked the question mentioned just broadly about pollution, you do get trees that will do that all year round. And a tree that's quite common in London is the London plane tree, common street tree, and if you look at the bark on it, it flakes off in quite small pieces to reveal a lighter patch underneath. Yes. And the reason it gets dark is because it's picking up pollution, like particulates, but it's not absorbing them then or processing them in any chemical sense, it's just catching them on the bark. And that's why they reply, I think they're originally from eastern Europe, but that's why they were planted so much in towns and cities, because of that property. To bring. To take particular. So you're saying, yes, they do clean the air a bit, which I think was actually the specific question, but I presumed it was referring more to photosynthesis. So it's a yes and a no, really. With no green leaves, there's no chemical reaction. Yes, but you meant. You mentioned. But it's like a net. It's like a net that catches pollution. It's why you're supposed to wear a face mask when you're trimming a hedge, because there'll be loads of dust and particles in a hedge, won't there? Yeah, exactly. I like that. Qualifications. I did a degree in biology and I like. Like trees as well. I like trees as well. Yeah, I really like trees. Have you ever done. There's a thing on the Isle of Wight where you can go right up one, you know, with special climbing stuff and have a little snooze up there. There's even a little kind of tent up a tree. No, it's not like a treehouse, Keith. It's a tent up a tree. All right. It's a different from a tree house because it's a tent. I don't know what a tree house is. Round of applause for George. Thank you very much. Thank you, George. 1251 is the time Tim's in high Wycombe. Tim, question or answer? All right, James. It's an answer. Carry on about the thermometers, calibrating them. What they generally do is they'll have a test chamber, which is basically an area that's going to keep a very constant temperature that can be monitored. And they'll put the thermocouple thermometers into those chambers. And then what they tend to do is it's not so much a calibration where they'll make it read the same. They'll do it at a bunch of different temperatures and then they'll give you a certificate which tells you you put an add on 0.01 degrees to everything. These are for industrial thermometers, not for, like, the ones you'd use to cook your turkey with or something like that. Or to check whether your child's got a fever. Yeah. More industrial commercial thermometers. I like that. Qualifications? I'm an electrical engineer. I work for a company that services and qualifies, calibrates blood banks. So you calibrate thermometers, then, in your day job? Arguably, to an extent, yes. But we'll get our thermometers that we'll use to obviously verify everything. We send them off to UCAs and they send us back a certificate telling us basically how far they are out. How cool. Round of applause for Tim. Good grief. What a brilliant answer. Take that back. Thought it was a rubbish question or did I think it was a good question? I can't remember either way. Brilliant answer. Sometimes rubbish questions have brilliant answers. And brilliant questions have rubbish brilliant. What? Usman's in Holborn. Ousmane. Question or answer? It is an answer. Carry on. So it's an answer to the plague pits question. Plague pits, yes. Yeah. But there isn't a plague pit over there. How do you know? Although someone says you. Although there is one there. But there is a website. The reason I know this website is I was told a couple of weeks ago by a friend of mine, black wall tunnel is called Black Wall tunnel for the same reason that there is a place bit there. And I went to check it out and they found this website. I think, if I remember correctly, it's historic dash uk.com or dot gov dot UK, and they have an interactive map where you see all the. You can have a look. And there's nothing in the South Kensington Earls court area that would explain the route of the Piccadilly line. That's a lovely answer. Yeah. Yeah. Where are you at the moment? You're on the tube at the moment as well? I am in the library. Oh, are you? Yeah, I'm a history. History master student. Very noisy. Which library? Well, are you at lse, then? King Kings. Just down by ho, down by the Aldrich. Round of applause for Usman. Yeah. And get back to your studies. You shouldn't be listening to mystery out when you're revising for your masters. That's the only thing that keeps saying, get on with it. Seriously. And in fact, being a history student, you remind me, I was in the middle of recommending a book about underground London. In fact, I think it's called Underground London. Or under London. Or London under by. Forgotten his name. Now, Peter Ackroyd, absolutely fascinating. Archaeology wasn't really a big thing in London until the blitz. You know, you go back to the 19th century, there's one story Ackroyd tells about workmen working on Oxford street and they just found a door. This is what I mean about the country sinking. The city sinks because London's built on clay. They found a door in a basement in Oxford street when they were building something there, and they opened the door and it had 16 steps leading down into what appeared to be a perfectly preserved, I think, either a roman crypt or a roman bath. That would have been more or less at ground level when it was originally built, but it had sunk down into the clay. And because there was no reverence or respect for antiquities until relatively recently, the victorians were kind of into it. But it was really only after the blitz that London became properly explored under. Under the surface, street surface. They just. They just trashed the whole thing, carried on building the shop. And oddly, what my growing fan base in Kidderminster may be interested to know, something similar happened in Kidderminster when they built the Swan center. Tom Watson will appreciate this, is they found an old wine vault under the Swan center, like an ancient wine vaults. And I think they knocked that down as well, because it was the sixties and they all had punts. All the wines in there had punts in the bottom. 1255 is the time Mickey's in Greenwich. Mickey, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. Mickey, your barges are not barges, they're lighters. Oh. And they're built that way to maximize the amount of containers that will go in them. Where the rubbish in London now is containerized. Yeah, dropped into barges. Well, I'm calling them barges now. Sorry about that. I think you mean a lighter, Michael. I think you mean a lighter. That's it. That's what I mean. So the squareness is also. Some was built like that. They used to have lighter aboard ship called lash at one time. So it's got nothing to do with smashing into other ships and sinking them? No, nothing to do with that at all. Are you sure? I'm absolutely sure. So I owe Paul an apology. You do? And I have to give you my round of applause. Thank you. Qualifications? Lightsabers. I can't really argue with that, can I? Not really. Well, no, hang on, because he's not talking about barges in the sense that you are with lighters. He's talking more about what you'd call a tugboat. No, the tug is actually pushing them or pulling them, which is why it can't have a pointy. Fry can't have a pointy front if it's pushing them. The lighter itself has no engine. They are dumb light. He wasn't talking about lighters, Mickey. He was talking about barges. Tugs. The tug is a different thing. I know it is, but he was talking about tugs and he said barges when he meant tugs, not lighters. What you had seen is a cloud, but it had an engine because he kept talking about all the power it needed to move. So it had an engine in it. It wasn't a lighter. The lighter will not have an engine, but the tug will. The tug poles the lighter and it pushes as well, which is why it can't have a pointy front, because it would pierce the hull of the pushy. No. Yes. No, James. Yes. I have not. Don't be tricky, Mickey. I've got this one absolutely right. He was talking about tugs. He said barges. You thought he meant lighters. I don't know where you're going with this, James. Give him a round of applause. Give him a round of applause for putting up with me. Seriously, I wouldn't have done. I'd have hung up 20 minutes ago. 1257 is the time. I don't know. You girl is in Cambridge. You girl. Question or answer? Hi. It's an answer. Carry on. It's the answer to the moisturizing question. It's you gel. Apparently not you gel. I do apologize. No, that's okay. All right. Should you moisturize upwards? Is it true? You have to moisturize upwards, otherwise your face will go all saggy. No, it doesn't. I'm a barber in training. I do lecture, ecologist, teaching, barbering. Fair enough. And recently, I just came second in the UK in shaving. In the UK. Congratulations. Who came first? A good friend of mine who was my. You know. Are you still friends? Yes. Yes. You know what Gore Vidal said about people like you and your friend in the international shaving competition. He said every time a friend of mine succeeds, a little bit of me dies. No, no, I'm proud of him. Good. What did you do wrong? Did you. Did you cut someone? Yeah. The realistic beard. And I should have trimmed it down with a clipper first. And you went straight, you went straight in with the razor. You gel, mate. What were you thinking? Yeah, well it was too thick, I couldn't, um. This is, this is now related to the question. Should have gone in with the clippers first, mate. Got it down to a nice manageable bristle. Yeah, you need to moisture, you need to lather the beard very well. Of course. You soften it up, mate. Rehydrate it for the sebaceous glands. I know all this. What? Hang on, hang on, hang on. How do you know you're not supposed to. What? Sit upwards? Moisturize upwards? Well, I mean if we have to moisture downwards, first of all to withdraw the blood from the skin. So to close the pores. Yes. And massaging. Any direction would benefit. That's what I thought. Any direction at all. Round of applause for you, Charles. A second. You know, second best savor in the country. Where's your shot? What's your shop called? In Cambridge? We Mister Barbers in Cambridge. Mister Barbers? Yeah. Mister. Mister Barber's. Well I know Mister Barber. You don't have to spell it for me, mate. Thanks for that Mister Barber. Get yourself down to you gel, tell him I sent you. But be careful if you've got a particularly bristly beard because they're not his forte. If you've got a particularly bristly beard, go and see his mate. His mate came first. Here's Sheila Fogarty. Thanks James. That was fascinating insight into male grooming. Thank you. What else do you want to know? Well, we can talk later. If a white person, especially a famous one, publicly helps an african person. Is anything about that a bad thing? I know you've been talking about.