How do they make firework shapes?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien. This is why mystery. I was invented. You know, today's night. Today, it just proved so popular, or at least so enjoyable to me that it became a permanent fixture of Thursdays. But it was actually one of the sure fireways that we had of ensuring that there would be no political commentary or comment contained within at least this hour of the program, because it has nothing to do with the news. And on days when there are elections, as there are today in many parts of the country, you are, as a broadcast organisation, not permitted, really, to say anything at all that could sway anything at all, which is about the limit of what I'm prepared to say. So there you go. A little bit of history for you. I've got a fascinating fact. I shared it with some friends yesterday and their response was agreeably excited. One of them was Russell Caine, the comedian. He's always excited, but the other people there were very excited as well. I just thought I'd share it with you during mystery out. Do you know the word? Did I tell you this yesterday? I've got, um. I've got a book at home that I'm sort of dipping in and out of. It's the history of the river Thames. I've had it. I've had it for years and I just dip in and out of it every now and then. The word cabal. Did you know, you know the word cabal as in a small, secret coterie of conspirators? C a B a l. Do you know where that comes from? The. The aristocrats, who. There was five of them who had a meeting, I think, under Charles II's reign or someone like that. It could have been James I, but a slightly sort of controversial monarch. They had the first letters of their name spelled out, c a b a l. So it comes from the jewish word kabbalah. It's kaba, double l A h. But the original cabal in british history was an acrostic. Is that what it's called, an acrostic or an acronym? No, an acronym. It was Ca. No, not even an acro. Anyway, it was Cabar. Shut up, James, and get on with mister. The way miss Jiao works is this. You have bubbling away in the back of your brain somewhere, a question in need of an answer. You know that there must be an answer. You know it must be something comprehensible, but you haven't been able to find it. You might have searched high and low, or it might just have popped into your head this morning. Perfectly plausible. The point is this, somebody else listening will already know the answer. Nobody's allowed to look anything up. That's a golden rule of mystery hour. Close to the only rule. It's a celebration of knowledge that you already have. Kind of ties in with that tale today, a prominent head teacher complaining that children are so plugged into their apps and their devices that they're losing basic skills like map reading. Or, to be honest, it's not just children. So I've started driving a lot more lately. And without the sat nav, what did people do without a sat navy? You get stuck in a town that you've never been in before and you don't know where the one way streets are and stuff like that. So it's not just children and it's not a negative. So I think it's Anthony Selden saying, oh, and they can't read a map. So what about adults, mate, seriously, you drop the vault, you drop the Volvo in the middle of Stoken church. I could be there for weeks. I'm never going to get out. Not unlike the Hotel California, actually, Stoken church. I don't know. I don't know if you've ever had the pleasure of visiting there. There is only one road out of Stoken church. But don't look up, whatever you do. It's like an Alfred Hitchcock film. Seriously. So many red kites around that part of the motorway, it's terrifying. Seven minutes after twelve, this concludes the broadcast. On behalf of the Stoken church tourist board, time to crack on with mystery. Tim's in tune. Tim, you can kick us off. Question or answer? Good afternoon, James. I've got a question. Carry on. Fireworks. Sorry. Firework recently went up in a heart shape and I can't work out how they do it. And I'm just curious to know what the mechanics it is. I like this question. I suspect that the answer will be a bit dull. Well, yeah, I'll settle for dull. Well, insofar as the answer won't be magic, which is what we both secretly want it to be. Yeah, well, magic, mate, it's just magic. So how do they get. Yeah, because some of the designs are incredibly. It's the precision that's intriguing you, isn't it? Because you can. You know what gunpowder is and you know what flame is and you know what an explosion is, but how do they get the precision in the sky when it was launched from 100ft below? Exactly. Yeah, I'd love that. Yeah. When I look at them, I'm like a child. I'm not even thinking, so I know I'm using my thinking part of the brain. They do that to everyone. Very, very few things bring out the inner childlike fireworks. It's. It's. I think it's primal, you know? I think it's because we used to spend so much time staring at flames before we had anything else to stare at. We'd go out hunting and gathering all day, and when we came back, all you could do was stare at the flames because there's nothing on the telly and that. That kind of hypnotic effect of the. Of the bright colors and the light. So I think it speaks to something ancient, but. But also something childlike within us all. I love that. And someone listening to this will be, how high do we have to set the bar for a ray Liotta? Someone who actually makes fireworks? Would that qualify for. We'll have to wait and see. Tim. Nice one. We go from Tim to Tom. Tom's in Battersea. Question or answer, Tom? It's a question, Dan. Carry on. Right, so why can't we farm expensive truffles as we can do with mushrooms? It just doesn't happen. Nobody knows why. Prince Charles, I think. The Duke of Edinburgh or Prince Charles. I forget which. I've got a feeling it's the former. I've got a feeling it's the father planted a load of trees, deliberately trees that are known to be attractive to truffles, in the hope of creating a kind of harvest, a commercial harvest just doesn't happen. Nobody knows why they form where they form. So even if you got one, can we just apply more technology it and just recreate the exact condition they tried? Duke of Edinburgh tried to. Someone google that? I'm not allowed to. I'm sure the Duke of Edinburgh tried to do it. My friend Andreas is the man you need to speak to about truffles. He's not far from you. He's just over the river on Chelsea Green, and he can not only sort you out with some top of the range stuff, but he's got an army of foragers and they won't even tell you where they found it, because if they tell you where they found it, someone else will go there and get it. It's so rare, that convergence of climate and creation that you. It's just one of the great mysteries of agriculture. Nobody knows why they form in certain places and not in others and nobody has worked out a way to do it commercially. So I'm going to take a round of applause for answering your question. But the answer to the question is there is no answer. Okay. It is just the case. But check out that Duke of Edinburgh thing. Or is it the Duke of Edinburgh? Or is it. Have I got that right? Oh, it's amazing. Thank you very much. Alex is in Fulham. Alex, question or answer? Question? Please carry on. It's about blue plaques to get on a house if someone famous lived there. Yes. There was two on one house that I drove past yesterday and I wondered, what's the most amount of blue plaques on a house? What's the most amount? So these are put up by English Heritage or the GLC or. I mean, I think english heritage have the bulk of it now. And they commemorate the inhabitants in a. In a building of somebody famous who's been dead. I think the limit is 20 years. I think you have to have been. Yeah. Dead for 20 years. Just for people who don't know what the blue plaque is. Can you remember who the two people were on that? No, but there's. Van Gogh is next to where I live and David Garrick's. There's some really cool people. I just wonder. Yeah. What's the most. Where's that? So van Gogh is in Isa west. And David Garrick from Hampton, he worked as, um. Didn't he work as a vicar? Van Gogh in Isleworth? I think he did. I think he preached out of a pulpit in Isleworth. I didn't know there was a blue plaque there. So you want to know if there's more than two anywhere. Where are the most blue plaques on our house? There's a street just by because I'm in an iraq about blue plaques. I absolutely love them. I found Coleridge's. I found Coleridge's the other day, which I hadn't seen before. It's opposite Olympia in Kensington, but it's down a road you'd never go down unless you were killing time as I was waiting for an appointment. Because it's not quite a cul de sac, but it's not a through road either. So it was. That was a real thrill for me because I love Coleridge. And there it was to think of them sitting there looking out the window. There's a couple of. Couple of mozarts in the west end. If you go up the street north of Oxford Street, I can't quite remember what it's called. There's two Charles Dickens ones. One where he lived, and one where the workhouse was, where he found himself on occasion. And then there's a street near Russell Square that has about six or seven in a row. But that's not. They're not all on one house. You've got William Empson, the poet, there. And also, I think you've got Kenneth Williams. It might have been where his dad's hairdressers was. But we digress. We want to find out where there are the most on one building. Yeah, it's a date. It's a deal. We'll do it. 1213 is the time. And there'll be people listening to this who are tour guides or similar, so they should be able to help us out. Rod is in Bracknell. Rod, question or answer? Hello? Hello, Rod, I just wanted. Hello, mate. I just want to. Do women suffer from a. Hold on a sec. Trying to find it. Hold on. That's all right, mate. Take your time. There's no one. There's no one listening. Midlife crisis. Do women suffer from. From midlife crisis? Are you having a tough time at the moment, Rod? No, no, I'm having a great time. It's just over the part. My. Over the past few years, my life, my wife and other ladies that I know who have had normal lives, and all of a sudden they sort of dyeing the hair black. Nipple piercings and another piercings and pink, red, yellow and green. I never. Yeah. So I just wonder if they go through mid life crisis. But it's not a medical. I mean, they go through the menopause, mate. But why are you going through that in a moment? Well, I don't know if they're linked, but the midlife crisis, in the sense of having a sort of fear, a mortal fear of your own mortality, kicks in and so you start pretending that you're younger than you really are. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what she'd been doing. So. Well, did she stop now? She's come out the other end of it now. Has she? Yeah. What did she do with the nipple piercings? Well, she didn't do the nipple piercing. She had the lip piercing and the eyebrow piercing. And she left them in. Yeah. What? I don't know. I mean, that does sound. I mean, sure. I don't think there's an answer to your question, mate, because I think you could describe. It's your choice whether you describe it as a midlife crisis or not. There's not like a medical diagnosis. That's what I'm trying to figure out. Well, then, yes, I think women can have midlife crises. Yeah. Don't you? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Yeah, I think so. Well, let's see what other people have to say. Rod. I shall leave that on the board for you, my friend. 1215 is the time. Not often I'm lost for words. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. What lovely questions. And what a lovely opportunity for me to show off as well, because I got it right about the Duke of Edinburgh. He has just turned 90. In answer to the question from Battersea about why we can't farm truffles, he has tried to set up a farm. He set up a one acre truffier in Sandringham. This is back in 2011, this was written, but he's been advised that it's likely to be another decade before the expensive fungus emerges, even if it does so. He bought special truffle impregnated trees. 5000 pounds he spent on truffle impregnated trees. And a spokesman for Sandringham said a while ago, I'm afraid the dogs have still failed to find any truffles. But these things can take time. It can be as long as ten to 15 years. I'm fairly confident that if it was successful, it would be close to a first. Why would you want to do it? Well, pound 900 a kilo is the answer to that question. Also, they are delicious. Shaved over a little bit of pasta. Speaking of showing off, it's March street. Next time you're in London, if you find yourself around Bloomsbury, around Russell Square, the foundling museum, the British Museum, all around there, try and find Marchmont street, because if, like me, you like blue plaques. I think there's more on that single street than any other street I've walked down in my life. And it does. I got it right. They do. Veer from Sir William Empson, a famous poet and critic. Seven types of ambiguity, of course, being his most famous work. And the comic actor Kenneth Williams, both on the same street. And also others include both Shelleys. Well, they were married, so its not that surprising that they lived together. Percy Bysshe and Mary Shelley. And then youve got doctor Edward Benes, who was the president of Czechoslovakia. He lived there for a while. Emilyn Williams, the playwright. And the playwright lived on that. So its an astonishing street. Some of the blue plaques appear to have been put up by the residents association as opposed to english heritage, but were looking for the building with the most blue plaques on it. So. Well leave that on the board. Can women have a midlife crisis? Rod's wife had all sorts of things pierced not long ago, and he's wondering whether this is common behaviour for women of a certain age. And how do fireworks work? That's a beautiful question. I can't believe we've done before. How do they get such a precise pattern in the sky? From a relatively small package of powder that's launched 100ft below. Michael's in Medway in Kent. Michael, question or answer? I've got a question for you, Jake. Carry on, Michael. Right, so I was at my parents the other day and I showed my mother how to use the tv remote again. Oh, yeah. And then I wondered who actually decided on what the symbols would be and what they would mean. Like standby, pause, fast forward, rewind. They're all the same. It's all an industry standard. So who actually came up with them and thought, right, we'll use these for the symbols and every electronic device in the world. It's been bugging me for a little while. Has it? Yeah. I don't know why. They're not always the same, are they? They're not always the same. Stand by this. Pauses. What does standby look like? It's like that little circle with the line down through the middle of it. Yeah. Yeah. No, you're right. And then fast forward. Yeah. That's quite a good question, isn't it? Where does it. Where come. They're all standardized. Who decided? Yeah, you're on. No, you're right. I thought that was going to be rubbish, but now that I'm thinking about it. Michael, it's not. Oh, thanks. No, you're welcome, mate. It's the closest you're going to get to a compliment today. Carry on. 21 minutes after twelve. So the symbols on the remote control. Midlife crisis. I've answered. Truffle farming. If you can expand on it, then. Then feel free. And how do fireworks work? Rodney is in Bradford. Rodney. Question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Rodney. You know, when surfaces get wet, why does the color change or the tone? You know, it gets darker, doesn't it? If it's dry, it's light. When it gets wet, it goes dark. Yes. Wondering about that. It's light, isn't it? It's less light. I think it's something to do with light. Less light can pass through it so it looks darker. Less light can pass through it. Yeah. Or bounce off it. Yeah. Don't you think? Is that refit? Is it refraction or reflection? Yes, it is definitely reflection or refraction. I'll leave that on the board because I think we're close to an answer, but we are not going to. We're not going to claim definitive status on that one. Why does wet stuff go darker? Must be something to do with light. But we're clearly not there. We're not there yet. Nice one, Rodney. Stephen's in Grantham and we're touring the country today. Question or answer, Stephen? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, James. When I'm playing tennis very badly, I must admit, and it's my turn to serve, I always wonder, why are you allowed to serves? Whereas in table tennis etc. Badminton you only have one serve. Is that going to be a question that allows an answer? Well, it's got to be an answer somewhere. Well, I mean, I'd have thought we'd work it out ourselves. And the answer is so that you can have a go at doing something really flipping amazing. But equally, if you were only allowed one serve, you probably wouldn't try as hard ever. You'd never do an ace, would you, because you'd be putting so much effort into making sure it goes in. So if you had one serve, it'd end up being somewhere. It would basically be a second serve, wouldn't it? So it's for the skill of the game, whereas in badminton there's not a great deal of skill involved in a serve. Ping pong, slightly less so. But if you try and concentrate. No, even in ping pong, you're looking at. Oh, shucks. Oh, blast. Do you know, I spent an hour yesterday with Howard Jacobson, the Booker Prize winning author, and I completely forgot to ask him about table tennis. One of his best novels is about table tennis. He was like an Olympic standard table tennis player in his childhood and I was reading up about it before I did the interview and I completely forgot. We just had one of those conversations where it just went off, couldn't stop. It was like, you know, chat and I've just got to the end of it and only now have I realized I forgot to talk to him about table tennis. Oh, sorry, Steve. No, it was a brilliant interview, but still, it's funny how things pop into your brain. So that will be the answer. It is simply to improve the quality of the game. I'm not taking it. Serve up something better than that, James. Well, you serve up something better than that. Get back. It's just the rules. It's like telling my Ted, what? Why do we have to do that? Because I. Because I say so. Why would. If you only had one serve in tennis, it would be a rubbish game. No. All right, okay. Maybe Andrew Castle's listening. I bet he doesn't know. 25 minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 good work, Stephen. Jane is in Ealing. Jane. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. It's quite basic. Well, my son asked me this morning as mom, it's stainless steel. Called stainless steel because it doesn't stain. Yeah. And I suddenly thought, well actually it does. Yes it does. In what sort of circumstances? I don't know. Burning or liquids or. I don't know if it does stain and scratched. Yeah, but not as much as other stuff does. Well, it's called stainless. Yeah, but it'd be a bit if it less stain would have looked rubbish. I mean stainless steel has a lovely little ring to it as a marketing phrase, doesn't it? It's less stain. It's stainless. Not stain free. Does it stainless any less than copper? No, I got. It's stainless, not stain free. So it stains less than other steel. That's not stainless. Okay, so it could be stainless. Well, how old's your son? At ten. Yeah. Well then that's fine then that's all you need. No, I want a proper answer. Did it come out being called stainless steel? I think it's more to do with not rusting. That's why it's called stainless. So you could stain it if you got some paint, obviously, but it's not going to rust. That's the difference between stainless steel and iron. Or you know, an alloy that isn't stainless, it's rusting. So you need to think about corrosion and rusting as opposed to staining in the kind of. In the sense. Does he make slime, your boy? Pardon? Does he make slime yet? Is he making slime? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So you know that that kind of stain is what you're thinking of, but that's not rust and corrosion. So stainless I think refers to corrosion resistance rather than actual, you know, cleanliness. Okay. That's why you have it in kitchens and stuff like that. Because if you get corrosion and rust in a kitchen, it can affect the food preparation. See? Okay, thank you. No, I'm taking that one to the bank, I think. Yeah, I am. And you know, any problems with the lad then just send him my way during half term and we'll explain to him why that was actually a brilliant answer. 27 after twelve. Gareth is in Birmingham. Gareth, question or answer? It's question. Carry on. Okay, so I want to know if there's a link between musicians ear and the ability to learn languages. And the reason I ask is that at school I was terrible at languages. My mum used to chastise me for my french pronunciation and accent. But I've been recently learning Lithuanian because I've got a lithuanian girlfriend. Oh, yes. And when. Which is pointless, learning Lithuanian because only 2 million people in the world speak it. Yeah, but you are going out with one of them, so I don't know if I'd describe it as pointless. It gets me some brownie points. Yes. When I speak Lithuanian in front of her family, they are gobsmacked at my pronunciation being so good and they think it's because I'm a musician that I've picked it up, that I've picked up the accent so well and that I'm learning the language, which I wasn't very good at at school. Who would know the answer to this, though? I want to know. I get to the musician's ear and language thing. I think it's going to be someone who knows about brains. Maybe because I get complimented on my greek accent when I speak Greek in Greece, but that's because I learned it entirely by listening to greek people, just like you're pretty much learning. So if I'd been taught Greek, I had a french teacher as a kid from Lancashire who didn't even try to moderate his accent when he was teaching us french participle Jules. So I learned French in a Lancashire accent. And then I got to big school and I was taught by a lad, a gentleman called John Wilcox, who was a Yorkshireman, a former England rugby union fullback, and he didn't moderate his Yorkshire accent when he was teaching his French. So for a while I spoke French with a curious melange of a lancastrian and a Yorkshire accent, whereas when I learned, which I learned entirely by osmosis. Oh, it's not there. So I learned Greek entirely by osmosis. And that's why I speak Greek just like I heard it. So it's probably just that, isn't it? Rather than music. I just realized he didn't use the osmosis button. I know, that's what I was pausing for. Jones, the engineer in the house as well. No, but it doesn't count. I used it in the wrong context. So I think that's probably it. But I will put it on the board because I'm just thinking out loud. Got you. Is there. Is there a link between a musician's ear and not so much the language learning, but the accuracy of the accent? Yeah. Love it. What do you play? What instrument do you play? I'm a singer. Okay, cool. But, yeah, there is a link. Say something in Lithuanian Gareth Lubayatu, which is. Thank you very much, Luviachu. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. We've still got work to do, guys. How do fireworks work? Zero 345-606-0973 can women have midlife crises? I mean, is it a recognized thing? The phone number remains the same, of course. When did the formalized uniformity of remote control symbols get established? Why do they all display the same symbols for the same functions? How did they get agreement on that? I guess maybe that just got invented and everyone copied the first one. But I'd like someone to go definitively. Similarly, why do we have two serves in tennis? It's proved quite controversial, that question. Jones, the engineer, tells me he actually tried to veto it, but he was overruled by Rosie and Beth, who were working the phones today. And I'm minded to side with Jones on this one, because there's a couple of people have pointed out it's the rules of tennis. There's one rather pithy tweeter pointed out, it's a bit like asking why you're not allowed to kick the bowler when you're batting in a cricket game. It's just the rules. You're not allowed to use karate when you're playing cricket. And you get two serves in tennis. But I think there might be a more sophisticated answer than that. And 1235, just a little more housework. This is from Maria, who writes. Come on, then, let us hear some greek to check for ourselves. Listening in regularly from Athens. Hi, James. Love the show. There you go. Karen is in the black isle, which is neither black nor an island, if memory serves. Karen, question or answer? Just north of Inverness. Indeed. Hi, James. Thank you. It's the answer. It's an answer to the. Do women get midlife crises? Come on. Indeed they do. How do you know? Because I've had one. I mean, this is the problem with Rod's question, really, because he was describing what I think most of us could easily describe as a midlife crisis on the part of his wife and her friends. So, in a way, he answered his question. But you can't. I mean, it's not medically recognized, is it? I don't suppose, but it isn't for a man, either. I think the unfortunate thing is that quite often it falls together with the menopause. So we have the dubious pleasure of having the both of them at the same time. Yes. So tell me about your midlife crisis. It's very hard to pick apart which is which yes. Yes, I do as well. And I mean the menopause, of course, entailing the end of your fertility, which can feel for a woman. Can feel very. Men just have intimations of mortality and realize they're going to die. But I suppose for women, realizing that you can never have a child, which never happens to a man, ordinarily it's a very different thing. So tell me about your midlife crisis. I shall decide whether it deserves the description. Well, don't be shy. You rang in. You rang in. I'm not going to tease it out of you. You've got to tell me. No, no, I will. Don't worry. Don't worry. I'm just wondering how to start. I think it started off really quite suddenly. And you see, see, when these horrors happened in France with the Charlie Hebdo people, when they got mowed down, I had this massive urge to go to France and to be in with the crowd and show my disapproval, basically. Why would that be a midlife. Why would you think that was a midlife party? Because you'd never had it before. Oh, you're not done yet. And my, my, my husband said, you must be absolutely joking because. And he was right, because, of course, you know, it was such short notice, prices would be absolutely horrendous. And so he said to me, no, you're not going. And that's what. That's what kicked it off. That's what kicked it off. And me not being allowed to go there kind of thing. Or him saying to me, you're not going. Yeah. And because, you know, no one tells me I'm not doing something, you know. You know. Fair enough. Yeah. So I had a midlife crisis, and it turns out I went then to, like, later. This was a little bit planned. So I went that September, I went to see a friend who stays in France and who has, like, basically the chambre d'hte, you know, like a b and b, basically. And I said. I said. And she. She employs worker wears. And I said, listen, I'd like to come and help you. I said, there's a few things I need to sort out in my head. And so I went over there for four weeks and helped her. Like, I cooked meals and stuff there and so let me stay there. What happened to your husband? He stayed here with the kids. And how long were you away for? Nearly all grown up, you know. How long were you away for? Four weeks. That's nice. What is that? We know some people would call it a holiday, not a midlife crisis. Yeah, I suppose that's. That's one way of putting it. But, I mean, you think it was linked to your stage in life. It was linked to mentally. You know, I didn't just sit there doing nothing. I did work, in all senses of the word, love it. And so when I came back, I had sorted out my head sufficiently great to, you know, I. I'm not saying it was a way, but it was a lot better. And I knew what I was going to do about it, kind of thing, where. Whereas I still had, like I should say, physical signs at that time of the menopause as well, on top of that. And that, I suppose, is just a biological process that you just can't speed up. This is very true. I know how you feel. I'm going to now play you your mystery. Our round of applause. I still don't think we've gone definitive on whether or not women can have. But you had one and Rod's wife had one, and her friends with the nipple piercings had one. So, yes, you can. David DiMarlo, question or answer? It's an answer. Can I just clarify that this is mystery hour? Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, carry on. Right, so you gave an incorrect answer. Stainless steel. And. And moreover, you actually took a round of applause for it. Yeah. Right. Go on. Stainless steel is stain resistance. Yeah. However, it will rust. Yeah. But less than other metals. No, no, it will rust. And he said it wouldn't. No. I mean, obviously it could. If you stuck it in the sea for a year, for a decade, it would probably rust a bit. But the whole point of. No, it wouldn't. No, it wouldn't. Do you know what it's called in German? Clever clocks, which is actually a marine stainless steel. Do you know? Chat. Chat. Do you know what it's called in German? Oh, yes, I do. What, stainless steel? No. Clever clocks. It is called Rostafri. Is it really? Yep. So I win. I thought Rusty was a former potato. Rusty Lee is a well known chef from Wolverhampton who became famous in the eighties on daytime television. But I'm not talking about Rusty Lee, the German. The German for stainless steel is roster free. Right. So I win. No, you don't. I do, though. I do. You took a round of applause. It's a figure of speech. I said it doesn't rust. Undermines the integrity of mystery. I'm gonna give you half a round of applause. All right? Okay. Brilliant. Yeah, I'm pretty sure it's rusty free, but I'm probably pronouncing it wrong. And if it's not, then I'm sorry, Jenny's in Leicester. Question or answer? Cheer up, Jenny. Oh, God, I'm nervous. How have I. Now what have we got? The remote controls. Oh, yes, controls, yeah. It's basically why it's unified is it uses binary code. Binary code meaning zero, false and the single line being true. And they've transferred that over to remote controls and electricals to mean on an. Yeah. The standby is a mixture of the off. Oh, yes, it is, isn't it? So it's on and off at the same time, so to speak, at the same time. As for things like playing fast forward, I think that's just a common sense kind of arrow goes forward and double arrow meaning. And what would have happened is whoever got first to market with a remote control. So probably vhs video, thinking back, that has then been copied by all subsequently. Yeah. Producers. It does incorporate the fast forward. Still has. Incorporates a bit the binary code when it goes to the skip section rather than fast forward. Have the two double arrows with the end signal at the end. So it's kind of like still fastening, but you can just get past it. I like it. Qualifications? I just saw it, I watched it on a program and I can't remember which program it was. And it's just one of those random pieces of information that's just stuck in my head. And that is mystery in a nutshell. Beautifully done. Thank you, Jenny. Nothing to be nervous about. Kevin is in Cambridge. We've forgotten some of the questions I think Kevin's going to answer. One of the ones I've forgotten about. Carry on, Kevin. Question or answer? Oh, it's an answer. Carry on. Why the red surface looks darker. Yes. Right. Usually every surface, they reflect light. Yes. Right. So when there's water on a surface, the water. Right. Normally the light get trapped between the water layer and the surface. So it reflects less light. Yes. So that's why it's dark. What about clothes, though? Is that that would still work with it. There'd still be a gap between. Even with wet clothes, the water feels like it's been absorbed, but somewhere the water is outside the surface, as it were. So normally see water. See every. Like I said, every surface reflects light. It also absorbs light. And clothes being a porous material. Yes. And it absorbs light when it's wet and it doesn't reflect it. It absorbs more than it reflects. So it looks darker even though it's the same sort of color. Yes, it is. Qualifications? I did a computer programming and game programming in University of East Anglia. So we have to write programming for things like red surface, all this, you know, what have you put that to use in your career? Do you work in video games or something like that? I do. I do write video games, yeah. As a hobby at the minute, because I'm actually working for financial service instead of going to. To become full fledged computer programmer. Fantastic. Oh, great stuff. And you got this as well to go on your mantelpiece? Can't say further than that. Thank you, Kevin. Good work. 1246 is the time. Have we not found anyone who makes fireworks? So we need fire. So how do fireworks work? Why do you have two serves in tennis? Done that, done that, done that. Is there anything else on the board you could have? Stewards inquiries, I suppose you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I really need answers to the following questions. Is there a link between speaking a language and having an ear for music? Gareth is crossed that I forgot to ask that question. You're right, Gareth. It had slipped my mind. I thought we'd kind of answered it. But you're absolutely right. We didn't go definitive. Which building has the most blue plaques on it? We can't get higher than two. And for fans of blue plex, I should tell you, just off Hanover Square in the west end of London, there's a building where both Jimi Hendrix and is it George Friedrich or anyway, Handel, the water music bloke? They both. You've got the Handel and the Hendricks plaques on one building, but I've never seen more than two on a single building. Have you? Somewhere in Soho, it would be, wouldn't it, in a big tenement? Because on Cecil court there's a. There's a blue plaid that says Mozart stayed here with a barber when he was visiting London with his. With his dad. And why do you have two serves in tennis? Is that. Is that it? So if you can answer any of those, you will get on fireworks. How do fireworks work? That's the most important question. Zero. 345-606-0973 wipe off a couple of more of these questions so that anyone who's got an answer can get through. But I don't. I don't want to leave any stone unturned. 1251 is the time. That was close. I nearly did it then. Silly sausage. John's in stains. Or as they say in Germany. Rost three. Question or answer. John Stewart's inquiry. James. What on, mate? On the truffle question. Shut the front door about farming. Truffles go on, then. Yeah. On the original dragon's den about ten years ago. I can't remember which one did it, but there was a chap they wanted to farm truffles and they grow specifically on poplar trees and only in this area in France, I think it was Bordeaux. Yeah, or champagne was about ten years ago. So they can. They do. They do grow here in Britain? They do grow in other places. This specific region in France that he was talking about, I don't just remember it from about ten years ago. So when you said earlier on, that would be a first. It's already been done ten years ago. Nobody hadn't. He hadn't actually harvested a truffle at that point? No, not at that point, but. And we've got no evidence he has done since. How's this working out for you, John? There's a story on the BBC. Somewhat seminary, the first truffle to have been cultivated on UK soil has been harvested from a field in Leicestershire, according to a plant biologist. So he's tried to spawn the specimens on 20 farms and estates across Britain six years ago and six years later, he found a 39 grams specimen under a young Hollyoak tree. And that is the bloke who appeared on dragons Den, believe it or not, back in the day. And he harvested one in 2015. But if he spent six years on 20 farms and he's got 2030 9 grams worth, I can see why the dragons didn't invest in that particular business plan, John. He did. He did invest in it. Oh, well, they're going to be cross. He jumped at the chance. Did they really? Well, they're fools now. We need more growth. Hang on, he appeared on. Let me get this right. He's BBC News, wild english truffles. He hopes to turn a profit within a few years. Well, yeah, he says that it did used to be produced, so I guess it is just a question of getting it right. And at the moment, they haven't got it right because it's the root system of a living tree where it happens, and the Duke of Edinburgh planted loads of them, so I'm not accepting your steward inquiry. I was kind of right. I was right. I was right. Okay, then, James. Sorry to waste your time. No, you never waste my time, John. This conversation is never a waste of time. Enlightenment and banter and debate, they're never waste of time. It's a pleasure talking to you, John. Have you ever eaten truffle? No. I recommend it. No, that's one of my bucket list. I recommend it. You don't have to go nuts, just grate a bit on an omelet or something like that. Absolutely delicious. 1254. Boss taught me out for lunch last year. He ordered macaroni cheese in a fancy London restaurant because he's. Because he's a simple lad, simple northern fella. And they said, do you want some truffle on that? I said, mate, have some truffle on that macaroni cheese. And he hadn't had it before. Oh, man. It is. I don't know why. Just one of those weird things that fills your face. Fills your face with flavour. See, that sounds posh and middle class, because I'm saying it. But a french person, a farmer, would explain to you why a truffle is so delicious. Dion is in Mitcham. Question or answer? Dion. Ian. Sorry. Ian. Yeah, answer. About the serving table tennis. Yeah. Okay. We didn't have a question about the table tennis. Or tennis. Tennis. Or table tennis. It was the table tennis and the badminton, I think. No, he wanted to know why we have a second serve in normal tennis. So just answer the question you rang in to answer. Don't worry whether anyone asked it or not. Sorry, I think we've got a bit of a confusion here. The question was about tennis. Tennis, not table tennis. But if you've got an answer about table tennis, I'd still like to hear it, because I really like table tennis. Okay, so what I wanted to say about the table tennis, why they serve. Why they have two serves each. What? But they don't. Yes, they do. In table tennis you only get one serve. No, two serves. No. One serve? No, it's two serves. It's one serve. You're saying that they are serving one serve each? No, no, no. If you miss with the first one, you lose the point. You get five serves each. In table tennis, I do five. You do five. No, no, it's two serves each. In table tennis it's five. No, it was like ten years ago, but now it's two serves. Oh, I believe you. I believe that that might have changed. I haven't. I haven't played competitively since I turned out for the Worcestershire under 16s in about 1985. But I digress. The question was about why do you have a second serve in tennis? Oh, why do you have a second serve in tennis? I don't know. Why do you have a second serve in tennis? Oh, when you miss it. Yeah. Oh, because the. Well, the percentage of. Because first, when you. When you serve the first one, normally the players will always try to serve. Smash. Yes. You know, like a really hard one. Yeah, really hard one. It's very difficult to. To control the ball where it's gonna land when you smash it. Exactly. That's why, in that case, you know, people. I mean, players will always lose first off points. Yes. It just makes the game more exciting to have two serves. Exactly. If, for example, you are fighting for a match point and then you want to serve a smash. Yes. And you will just lose a point. But when you serve a second one, you would. Because normally, if you see the statistics, you're absolutely right. You've already got it right. What are your qualifications? Why do you know so much about tennis and table tennis? Oh, because I'm a former play, but. Former table tennis player. Former. Why did you stop? Why did you hang up your bat? Um, because. Well, life. I couldn't make a life of it. Fair enough. Round of applause. It got you this, at least, so it wasn't fruitless. Thank you. Eon, not Dion. Right. Cranky. Uh, Lee is in Nottingham. Question or answer? Lee. I've got an answer for you, James. Bring it on, mate. First time listener. So I'm a little bit nervous. First time listener. Yeah, well, first time caller. Sorry. That's all right. First time listeners. Good, too. I mean, they all count. But you're here now. There's nothing to be nervous about. What have you got for me? How fireworks work. Brilliant. Go on. So I caught the tail end of the question when I got back in my car. Yeah. And I heard you say, how do you create shapes in fireworks? Yeah. How do you get the precision in the sky from. From so down low? Well, the burst in the sky originated as a sort of a cannonball, a sphere object. And the shapes are put inside the sphere, obviously. Much, much smaller, in a nice, precise pattern. Maybe a heart pattern or a. Yeah, but how. So you put. What do you put inside the firework in a heart shaped pattern to make a heart shaped pattern in the sky. We call them stars. So they're little balls of composition that can burn in different colors. And if you get it right, so you very carefully assemble it inside the firework. And nine times out of ten, when it. When it explodes, it works basically. Yeah. They're made by hand, and we've had shapes in the past that aren't always that accurate. Sure. So the larger the sphere is, the larger the shell is, as we call them. So the bigger you can make the pattern initially, when you're making it by hand, the more accurate it will be. Qualifications? Lee, 24 years running a firework company. What was your first firework? Oh, gosh. Well, I began my firework life when I was just nine year old. Nine years old with my dad. Was it. Was it a family business or was it a hobby for you that you turned into a job? A hobby that turned into a job? A family hobby that turned into a job? What's the name of the company? Lee Galaxy Fireworks Co. Dot uk. We're in Nottingham. Sweet, mate. And you also got yourself a Rayleigh otter. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come beautiful. And that's it. Celebrate with some fireworks. Mark's in Bristol. I haven't got time. Mark, just tell me quickly, how many blue plaques on a single house? Two maximum. Yeah, that's what I thought, but she. The fogarty's here. Have you got a blue plaque on your house yet? She defogs. Not yet. It's just a matter of time. I shall launch the campaign. Sign here. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from tab only on LBC.