Birds on one leg?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the shallow end now beckons. Having spent 2 hours in the deepest of deep ends, I think we can have a little bit of a flounder, can't we? In the shallow end, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on the radio dial. And of course the question of what qualifies for inclusion in Mister hour is one for the ages. I generally don't like questions about motoring, but apart from that, anything that's got you puzzled, anything that's got you mystified, anything that's got you be riddled, if that's a word, can qualify. You can even win. If you were unlucky enough not to receive one for Christmas, then you can get your hands on a mystery hour board game. Best selling board game, the mystery, our board game, by submitting my favorite contribution of the week, either a question or an answer. The full terms and conditions for that are at LBc dot co dot UK. I think that's everything. Is that everything? You want to find out more about the board game, you can go to mysteryhour dot co dot UK dot. You want to find out the terms and conditions for the competition under which you can win a board game. You need to go to lBC dot co dot UK dot. I think we'll just crack on. Ross is in Bowness in Scotland. Ross, question or answer? It is a question, James, carry on. My question was how was measurements measured? How were measurements measured? Well, all of them. Yeah. Well I suppose we'll be here all year. I was thinking more about your time and weight when, for example, a second was invented or worked out. How did. I mean, times are construct. So how did it just say, well, this is a second. This is exactly. Let's just do that. Let's just do that. Yeah, because I suppose weights are a little bit easier, but, yeah, time second. When did a second become a second? When did a second become a second? How did they agree upon that measurement? And then was it the same 500 years ago as it is today with different computers and different ways of measuring things? I mean, it's a bit of a crazy question, isn't it? Well, my mind wanders at work a lot, so. Well, not in the last 2 hours, that's too risky. I gotta be like, that's why I'm so exhausted. But generally my mind sometimes wanders so you do. You've got. So, I mean, it's a. You start with a day, wouldn't you? You'd start with the day, then it gets turned into 24 hours, and then it gets turned into an hour is 60 minutes and a minute is 60 seconds. So somewhere, someone somehow made those decisions. Yeah. But then there was obviously, when it was down to just the sun and shadows, I imagine, when they were originally measuring a day, how did, how could they break it down into seconds and minutes when they didn't exist yet? And how did it decide? When did a second become a second? When did a second. I mean, I just can't believe. I've got no clue about that. I just thought there'd be some sort of. I can't just say something random like, it was probably the Egyptians. I just don't know. That's a great question. That's why mister is so magical, isn't it? Because even after all these years, something like that, and someone will ring in now or text in and say, actually, I think you'll find this question was answered in 2007 and it's contained within the mystery outboard game which we played on Boxing Day. Yeah, but it doesn't matter, does it? I can't remember. Therefore it never happened. If I can't remember it, it never happened. Eve is in Brussels, in Belgium. Eve, question or answer? Hello, James. Hello. Hello. First of all, I have to say this question is from my wife. My wife is too starstrack to talk to you, so that's totally ridiculous. What's your wife's name? I put her on the list. Anne Marie. Anne Marie. Okay, what is the question? Okay. I was wondering why the. The head at the top of the neck of a violin or cello or double bass always has the shape of a spiral? Because if this, the shape has a function. I don't know what function. The strings wrap around it, don't they? No. They wrap around the peg, don't they? Yeah. And I wonder if the shape has a fountain. But the fact that I've seen sometimes very, very seldom, another shape like a lion's head. Like a what? A lion's head. Oh, yes, I've seen that once. But it's very, very, very seldom for centuries, apparently, all the heads at the top of the neck of violence and cellos always have that. Always. They sort of, they curl in on themselves like a. Sort of exactly. Like a flat spiral, a coil. A coil. Like a coil, exactly. Well, it looks nice. It could just be aesthetic, couldn't it? Could just be aesthetic, yes, but I mean, there are many other shapes that look nice. You can have it sharpened and then you could have it as a weapon in case there was a stage invasion or something like that. If that. Hey, when Stravinsky was doing the rites of spring, if he'd had armed violinists, everything could have turned out slightly differently. I love that. Will you thank Anne Marie for me, please, Eve? That's a wonderful question. Thank you. Well, thank you. I hope we get an answer. Why did. Why do stringed instruments have that coiled effect? The spirally bit on the end of the neck? Which is. It doesn't serve any function, as far as we can tell, but maybe it does. 1209 is the time. And where do seconds come from? When did we get seconds? Steve is in Bromsgrove. Steve, question or answer? Question, please, James. I drove through Bromsgrove last week. Steve, did you? Whereabouts? I was on my way to Brock and Cote hall in Chattersley Corbett. Very nice. It is very nice, actually. Quick pint in the dog. Lovely part of the world. What's the question? I would like to know where the king goes to the toilet. So if you just bear with me. So say he's got an engagement in Brighton and he's driving back to London and suddenly, you know, suddenly needs to go. Does he stop off at the peace pottage service station or do they have somewhere planned in between? I mean, is it like bus drivers? Do they have a special key for some private facilities? So when he's out and about is what we talk about. Is there stately homes that they stop off at? If they're on the way, do they plan or do they go? Well, we'll just, you know. Did he pop into Heston on his way to Windsor? Toby Carvery. Toby Carver. Pull up at a pub and pretend you're going to buy a drink. Or do that thing where you look and guess if you're walking back to your table when in fact you're just trying to find the gentleman. He's not got people to do it for him, has he? That's one thing you can't delegate. It could be a long drive back from. It would be a long drive. I mean, you'd go before you set out. But that's no guarantee, is it? No. Those pulls might repeat. That's a wonderful question. I did. I don't know if I'm allowed to tell you this, Steve, so keep it between us, will you? But I. There is a toilet at the Royal Albert hall that is reserved for the monarch. How do you know that I can't tell you that. I'd have to kill you. Okay. Have you used it? I certainly can't tell you that. I would really have to kill you. But it is just so that the monarch doesn't have to, you know, queue up with everybody. Which was more of a. More of an issue, I think, for the last monarch than for the current one, because, you know, the queuing element would be more noticeable, probably, but. So where does he go to the loo? Where does he go to the loo? On a long journey? That's a great question. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And it has to be en route. This is the point, because you can't say, well, we keep one. When she came to open our school. Close the staff toilets. And where does the king go for a Wii when he's got, like, a 200 miles journey to make by car? Alex is in Greenwich. Alex, question or answer? Hi, James. Happy New year. It's a question. Please, mate. Carry on. It's just a very quick one. Basically, I was playing a game. I don't think I'm allowed to mention it. It involves flying helicopters that time. Why aren't you allowed to mention it? Did someone tell you that when you rang in? I just kind of imagined. I mind. I don't know. So basically it's grand theft auto. Yeah. Why would you not be allowed to mention that? I have no idea. I was just a bit nervous. No, there's nothing wrong with that. No, I like it because sometimes people worry that. Because on the BBC you're not supposed to, like, mention things and there's product placement rules and stuff like that. But, no, don't worry about it. Seriously. Anyway, even if you're not allowed to do it, it's me that gets into trouble, not you. So just chill. Go on. Question was, I was wondering. What, Dick? How many blades go on a helicopter propeller? I guess because I've seen some with two. I've seen some before. Which. You've seen a helicopter with two blades? Yeah. What, with people in it? Not just a little toy? One. Okay, fair enough. Um. I've seen some with seven or eight. So I was wondering what dictates. Well, then nothing dictates it, then, does it? No. See, because I've seen it on different. You can't have one. That'd be stupid. Although, in a way, if you've got two, then you could argue that you've only got one. But you mean blades coming out from the central point. You don't mean, like one blade cut in half, as it were. Of course. Well, I shall find out for you. I mean, if you've got one with two and one with eight, it's hard not to avoid the conclusion that it doesn't matter. But you want to know what. What makes it? Why? How do they decide? What determines how many blades there are on a. On a. On a. On a thingammy? No, I like it. How are you going on. On grand theft auto? Have you. What is going on in the world of grand theft auto, Alex? I've been out of the now for a while, but the girls have grown up, so I'm going to be able to buy the next one if it ever comes out. Yeah. I mean, to be honest, I think we're all just anxiously waiting for the new one to come out, which obviously isn't going to be until next year. Now they got our appetite whetted and then it turned out it was still miles away. Thank you. 13 minutes after Charles. The time. It's called a scroll. Captain bird's eye tells me I slightly edited his twitter handle there. It's called a scroll. That thing on the violin, the scroll at the end of the neck. What's it for? When were seconds invented? Where does the king go to the loo if he's on a long car journey? And how do they know how many blades to put on a helicopter? Or what determines how many blades are put on a helicopter? I'm going to read this because I read out some unpleasant tweets and text, didn't I, in the first couple of hours of the program. So I'm going to read this from Jill on the Isle of Man. It's in because it flies in the opposite direction. Hi, James. Happy new year. Thank you, Jill. I just want to say I'm about to relisten to the last 2 hours on catch up. Such was the quality of the exchanges this morning. And you, my friend, in the many years I've been listening to you, have honed your professional skills to bring us to the point of enabling such honesty in conversation. Well done, as that is so sorely needed right now. And I will allow myself a little glow. Gratitude for that text, Jill. By way of balance for some of the less pleasant ones that I read out earlier in the day. It's 12:15 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 17 minutes after twelve. I mean, it's called a bell Huey. Is it? There are definitely helicopters that only have two blades. So what dictates the number of blades that a helicopter has? Where does the king go for a we on a very long road journey? What is the scroll, the spirally, coily bit at the end of the neck of a stringed instrument? For does it serve a purpose? And when were seconds invented? If indeed that is the right word to use in the context of seconds. Were they invented or were they always there? Hmm? They just got named. Whoa. Thats philosophy. That is. That is your philosophy, that is. Were seconds always there? Were they invented or were they just named? Did an orange exist before it was an orange? What came first, the colour or the fruit? That's why mystery hour remains so engaging. Sam's in queue. Sam, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. I have a question. Carry on. Basically, over the Christmas period, I was unfortunate enough to go down with the flu. I hadn't been ill for at least five years. I can't even remember the last time I've been ill, but I was hit bad. I was like, yeah. Coughing, spluttering, all of the. Above, all the shivers, all the pain. And I was kind of curious. There's a sort of. I don't know whether it's an urban myth, man flu. Do men suffer from flu more severely than women? I mean, I don't imagine the frailer of the species would have survived what I went through. It was bad. Ridiculous. So what's the question? Is man flu a real thing? Is it a real thing? I mean, how could you quantify. Do men suffer more than women from flu? But that's not what man flu means. No, no, it's the opposite. Man flu is a cold that we think we're really suffering on an untold scale. But a woman with exactly the same virus would just get on with it. Well, is it an open myth, though? I mean, how. Because you've just proved it. You just said that you don't think a woman could cope with the. With the terrible pain that you were suffering. She'd have. She wouldn't have even been in bed, mate. I did, I did. There are a lot of sketches that sort of mock this, but I did read somewhere or hear somewhere that, I mean, this is why, with measles, we suffer more as adults, because we're bigger, and then there's more of the virus in us. So maybe as men, because we're generally bigger than women, we have more virus within us and we suffer more. That was my scientific thought on it. As opposed to the. Well, I mean, women generally have a higher pain threshold for hot water. That's come up on mystery out before. I don't know if you've ever got into the shower when the temperature setting has been put in place by a woman, but I don't know. So is man flu real? But it's not a thing. It's not a vibe, it's a. Nearly swore. Then it's a Mickey take man flu. Oh, I've got flu. No, you haven't. You've got man flu. Man flu is a cold. Man flu is what you call a cold. If you're a man. To the board, though. Well, I don't know that we can put it to the board. No, because no one has ever claimed that man flu is an actual virus specific to men. Well, I'm not claiming that. Maybe they are. Maybe there is. I'm wondering whether we do genuinely. I've done that thing again. That we suffer more than women. Yeah, I think, you know, I apologize. I think you'll know I've done that thing again. I've got on my high horse. And then as I've looked down from my high horse, I've thought, you shouldn't have got up on this high horse. The caller might have a point, Sam could be on to something here. So is. Is there such a thing as man flu? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. All right. You sure you didn't have COVID? Excuse me? Literally, I'm more or less better, but, um, I'm not entirely sure. I've been out and I've been. So you didn't do a test? I went. I went on holiday by mistake and I've been out in the. Do you think you are with nails? Yeah. He's one of my heroes. But I'm in Purbeck at the moment. I've been in a little cottage in the middle of nowhere and I haven't really had access to. So you could have COVID, but you haven't been able to do a test. I tell you something funny, Sam. When you coughed, then my actual gut reaction, I reached for the hand sanitizer in the studio. I just thought, where's the hand sanitizer? Then I suddenly thought, no, he's at the other end of the country. I don't need to sanitize myself. Probably not that. Not that contagious. That would be a story, wouldn't it? That would be it. That would be a virus. I'll tell you what. Thank you, Sam. Is man flu a thing? Zero three 4560-609-7322 minutes after twelve Rebecca is in Greenwich. Rebecca, question or answer. It's an answer. Carry on. So the scrolls on a stringed instrument, the scroll at the end, serve no function. It's purely decorative. And it was often sort of used as a. As a marker of the makers skill set, if you like. Okay. Right. Display how. How fancy they were or how good they were at making violin, viola, cello, whatever it was. So, yeah, there you go. No function at all. And I suppose it just becomes a thing over the years and they all have to do it. Are you sure? Qualifications. So my mum was in the ls at London Symphony Orchestra. She played the viola for 30 plus years and she told. Well, yeah, I learned the violin from when I was sort of. God knows, because, sure, it doesn't have a resonance sort of purpose. It was just a flat edge. No, that's all in the inside of the instrument. That's why it has the cutout sections on either side. But it was one of the first things I said to my mum was, you know, why is this like a snail? And mum said, oh, it's just. It's to show off. You know, maybe she said it to me because I was a kid and it was cute. But as far as I know, doesn't serve any. Any purpose in terms of sound or timber or anything like that. No, fair enough. I mean, it's around. I mean, someone might do a challenge on this one, but it's a round of applause for you. I'll welcome it. Oh, thanks. At this time, I'll welcome a challenge happily. That's fine. I'm probably. I could. Well, Ben, there it is. Thank you all. Thank you, Rebecca. Let me just write your name down. Next to the. Next to Ross's. No, it was Eve. It was Anne Marie, actually, who asked that question via Eve and it was Rebecca that answered it. Sam's incarniff. Sam, question or answer? Question. James. Yes. I don't remember very much from school. However, I do remember that I was told that as a human, your eyes can see your nose but your brain cancels. Cancels it out. Okay. Does the same apply to all animals? How on earth. How would we ever know? How could we know unless they can talk? Well, this is why I'm asking. So what's got quite a big nose? So, well, you've got, like, a dog, which has got from a pug, a very small nose to something like a german shepherd with a long nose. But things like penguin with a beak, a penguin or a hair or something like that. Or horses that have got an exceptionally long nose. Well, long fur, yes. But they're. How much of their faces are nose? Who knows? Who knows how much of their faces are nose? But can they see it or does their brain cancel it out in the same way? Yeah. Okay, so you can see your nose if you try to, can't you? You do this thing where you look down. You can sort of. Certainly, if you close one eye, it's a lot easier. But there is some sort of what I would call cerebral editing going on there. The brain is just removing it from your vision, otherwise it would be weird, wouldn't it? It'd be there all the time. It'd be like a little like a rifle sight on a video game or something. Everywhere you looked, it was in shot. But do animals do any other. Does that work for other creatures? I just can't for the life of me conceive of how we'd know. But I will put it on the board. I mean, some must know, mustn't they, because they use it. So like a heron must have a fairly clear idea of how big its beak is, otherwise it would never catch a fish, would it? Well, no, but then, like when you're driving a car, you can't always see the end of the bonnet, but you know where it is. That's a very good point that you make, actually. Yes. Although you don't use your car to catch fish. Well, hopefully not. I shall put it on the board. God knows what the answer will sound like if indeed we get one. But I, for one, look forward to it. Thank you. Sam. Pete's in Manchester. Pete, question or answer? Hey, James. Happy New Year. Thank you, mate. I was sat in the car park having some lunch before Christmas. I was looking up and on the top of a lamppost. It was a bit of a windy day. There was a seagull. It was a common goal and it only had one leg. And I was feeling really sorry for it. I was thinking it was having trouble staying up. It was wobbling a little bit, you know, it wasn't falling, but I was thinking, oh, poor seagull. Why has it lost its leg? Then it. Then it flew off, landed on the car park itself and ate a burger and it had two legs. So my question is, why do birds perch on one leg? Well, what are they doing with the other one? Well, they're tucking it into their tummy. Well, that's. I think that's the answer. Then they give. Imagine if you only had one glove. Yeah. And it was really cold out and you had no pockets. What would you do? Well, you're saying it's to keep warm. Yeah. They're warming up one leg and once it's every bit toasty, off they hop onto the other leg. Do birds legs get cold? I mean, there's not much meat on them, is there, legs? Doopy doopy doo. I mean, it was struggling to stay up. Was it. You know, was it very wet? Was it very windy? It wasn't that windy, no. So why do birds. Why do birds stand on one leg? Say that again. Why do birds stand on one leg? Yeah, why do. Well, why. Yeah, why do they stand on one leg? I mean, flamingos do it, don't they, as well? And then they don't live in cold climates, do they? No. So, okay, thank you. I like it. Why did birds stand on. I'm just trying to think if I was right. Sometimes I pause a bit, Pete, in the hope that an answer presents itself to me while I'm pausing, but not on this occasion. The flamenco's made me think I knew the answer. Yeah, that's good for that. Does it? Yeah. Well, it is cold, though, if it gets cold in the water. What, in Florida? Yeah. Okay. It's still coming. It's not hot. It's not that cold, is it? You'd notice it if you had. Go in the sea. I swim in the sea. Yeah. And it's colder than it is out. It's colder in the. Now. It's not that cold. But it's colder in the net. It's colder in than out. Okay. I know what you do. I think it's heat. I think it's something to do with heat. But you maybe. Yeah, we'll find out, won't we? Okay, thank you. Thank you. All right. What was the sandwich? It was. It was a. It was a chicken nuggets. It wasn't even a sandwich. I was trying to sound posh. It wasn't a sandwich. It was chicken nugget. You were having a filthy lunch. Pete caught me out. You were having a filthy lunch. Love it. Fantastic. Have a great day. 28 minutes after twelve is the time. David's in Birmingham. David, question or answer? It's an answer, James, and I'm quite hungry now. After that, you and me both. I'm still looking for my hand sanitizer after Sam started coughing in the lake district. What have you got for me? Go on. Okay. It's an answer to the helicopter question. Yes. And first off, have you ever seen Mash? Yeah. Not for a while, though. Then you've seen a helicopter with your blade? Of course you have. Yes, yes, yes. Just to take you back on that. But the reason that helicopters have different numbers of blades is really. I mean, there's plenty of factors, but the main one is to do with the amount of lift that's required. In the industry, helicopters are also known as rotary wing aircraft, and the rotor is essentially a wing. You need a combination. Well, basically, the lift is generated by the area and the power. So if you had an enormous big old helicopter, like a chinook or a sea king or something like that, yes. If you only had two blades, they'd need to be ridiculously long. So what they do is they add other rotors so that you can have a smaller disk area while still continuing to have the amount of power. So, I mean, it's pretty straightforward. Then. You create more lift. The more rotors you have, the more lift you create. So the heavier the helicopter, the more you need. And, of course, you don't want. It's a fine balance because whenever you create lift, you also create drag and weight. So it's a trade off between the two. But if you've got a really big helicopter, you just need to put more blades on it. That's fantastic. Qualifications? I did one year of an aeronautical engineering degree and I work for a company that makes the actuation systems that cause the rotors to move because they actually change the angle of incidence. So as they're coming towards the front of the helicopter, they have a positive angle of incident. So if you think about putting your hand outside when you're in the motorway or on a. Well, maybe not the motorway, but a fast road. Yeah. And have it angled up, that's a positive angle of incident. If you have it the other way, it's. It's negative. So you get the lift on the way. Why did you only do one? Yeah, sorry, why did you only do one? I did more apply drinking than aerospace engineering. So you dropped out? Yeah. But you still got a job in the sector? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Does your boss. Does your boss know you didn't finish your degree? Yeah, I actually did a degree, a degree in economics, and then did a master of science in something else as well. So, yeah, I'm going for the full set. I've only got the economics. I just need the maths, physics and bionics and iTunes. It's a big round of applause. That's a lovely answer. Thank you. No, thank you. Kind of obvious when you think about it, but to have it explained so expertly was an absolute pleasure. Time now for the very latest news headlines with Amelia Cox mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1235 is the time and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I don't think that chicken nuggets have ever caused quite as much hilarity as they did when Pete mentioned them a moment ago. When were seconds invented? What does the king do when he needs a wee on a long car journey? Is man flu a thing? Is there any sort of scientific basis behind the story of the phenomenon of man flu? Can animals see their noses? And why do birds stand on one leg? Richard is in it says here, Ashford de la zouch. But surely it's Ashby de la zouche. Yeah, it's Ashby de la zouche. Yes, I thought so. That's where Rick Ashley comes from, isn't it? No, never. Are you sure? I'm pretty sure, yeah. Where does Rick Astley come from, then? I thought it was from a hull. I've got it in my head that he was from Ashby de la Zouche. It's just one of my little filed away pieces of helpful trivia. The only person ever from Ashby de La Zouche was the. The old chap on the COVID of the mastermind game where he used to put the pegs into the ball into the hole. Was he from Ashby in the zoo? He was a master sort of model. I think so, yeah. Yeah, I think so. Newton lewillows and Rick Astley's from Newton lewillows. Newton llewillows. I've got it mixed up in my head because of all the French. Oh, there you go. Yeah. That's a pretty lame claim to fame, isn't it, for Ashby de la Zoo? Adrian Mole lived here for a while, didn't he? Yeah, he did. He did. Before he moved back home into the pigsty with his mum and dad, into the converted pig sty. Oh, we're covering a lot of ground here, Richard. What's your question? Question? If you've got two different factors of sun cream, so you've got a 20 and a 50. Yeah. And you put them both on. Yeah. Are they diluting each other or adding to each other? So do you end up with a sub factor 70 or a factor 35? They must be diluting each other. I don't know. I mean, we talked about this often on beaches. They must be. Yeah. I don't know. I'm asking. I really don't know. Maybe if you put half, half of the amount in, they dilute each other. It's a thickness issue, isn't it. So the 50 is thicker than the 20, right? Usually. No, you can get a spray on 50. Yeah. Well, then you can't measure the thickness properly. Viscosity. Viscosity. Thank you. But, yeah, you're welcome. So you put 20 in a 50, you're diluting the 50 and strengthening the 20, and it's going to meet halfway, approximately the 35 mark. Yeah, I'm not so sure. No. Well, I can't. I'm not going to give myself a round of applause, but I'll be amazed. I'll be amazed if you end up with 70. 50 plus 2070. Do you want some breaking news? Okay, cool. Richie Sunaks just said that it is working assumption that he will hold a general election in the second half of this year. Richard. Oh, good. We've got that to look forward to. Excellent. What are you having for lunch? Me? I'm making a courgette soup. Do you use a stock? Do you make your own stock for that or. It's an oxo cube. Is it? Interesting. Well, good luck. I like the SPF chicken nuggets around here. Quite right, too. Not an ashby de la Zoosh. 1238 is time. If you end up, you put some 20 in with your 50 and you end up with 70. I shall give you the money myself. Heads in later. Ned. Question or answer? Hey, James. Yeah, I've got a question, please, actually. Konnichiwa. From a happy new year from Japan. I'm on holiday at the moment with the family. Oh, congratulations. Well, congratulations. You don't say that to people on holiday. Thank you. Will do. And the same to you as well. Cheers. Yeah. My little one has a question for you. She was in the kitchen brushing her teeth and she noticed. Was she brushing her teeth in the kitchen? Well, you know, sometimes you do go for a wonder, break the boredom. Go on. Yeah. But she was. Well, there's a sink in the kitchen. It's useful. Yeah, yeah. So she was looking at brushing the teeth of the electric toothbrush and looked at the microwave and the numbers started kind of bouncing outside of the frame of the microwave. Yeah. Nothing else was vibrating or jiggling around, but the numbers were. And she asked me what that was about and I said, I don't really know, but I have experienced the same myself in a hotel. I was looking at the tv and there was an lcd clock on it and I was wandering around, as you do, with a toothbrush. Yeah. And, yeah, the numbers started jiggling around outside of the frame of the clock. So I wanted to know how that's happening or what it's doing or. Yeah, but is there a reason your brain is perceiving it that way? But. So it's just the lights, the led lights that are jiggling around and they're jiggling around because you're jiggling your head around with your toothbrush, but you're confused as to why nothing else appears to be jiggling around at the same time. Yeah, she's quite a complicated question. Maybe, but what a thought. Some more. I haven't got a toothbrush with me. Shall I use a pen? I don't use a pen because I might leave it here and then Sheila Fogarty will pick it up and she'll be. Good try. When you. When you get home, I'm going to imagine I'm brushing. I can't imagine you're brushing your teeth because you've got to actually agitate your mouth a bit, haven't you? Yeah, I think. Well, I just shake my head a bit like that. I just shake my head. I'm just shaking my head. This is gonna look great on YouTube later. I'm just shaking my head a bit. What can I look? And I'm looking at the. There's a screen up, but it's got white letters, not red. What can I look at? Maybe you need an LCD clock. What can I look at? I've got an LCD. I've got an lcd clock over. Is that LCD? That one there? That's it. I've got an lcd clock. It's got loads on it, but nothing's really. I don't. Faster, James. I'm going faster. I can't go any faster. I'll do myself an injury. No, I'm not getting it. So the numbers would move out of the little square that they're in and everything else would stay. It's related to the toothbrush. Electric toothbrush. Were you both using electric toothbrushes? Yeah, both of us. Well, that's. I'm never going to be able to emulate that, am I? You should have told me that before I started jiggling. What's happening in the electric toothbrush to make that happen? Or is it just the speed? Well, it must be the speed of the oscillations, isn't it? Yeah. Why is it not only the lights are jiggling and nothing else? Yeah. All right. Well, if we get an answer to this, I'll be absolutely staggered. Well, I'd be thrilled because. Yeah, I'd like to know. I would, too, now. So would your little girl. She's probably less interested than you are. She's probably forgotten by now, hasn't she, the little one? No, she loves it. Oh, good. She wanted to ask the question. Fantastic. It's me that wanted to ask the question. You're on. Sweet. Enjoy the rest of your holiday. Will do. We're flying back tomorrow. We'll be back in the country. See you soon. Sayonara. All right, cheers. 1241. Simon's in Littlehampton. Simon. Question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's a question. Yes. And obviously, like everyone, everyone's been watching the darts in the last week or so, and it occurred to me in the semi final that the ball, either side, has got two markers doing the scores on paper, whereas the tv coverage and even, there was a long shot of the stage. Even the stage itself has electronic digital readouts of the scores. So what's the history? Even, or why do they still do a paper version? Two people employed to write the numbers down either side of the. Of the scoreboard, in case there's a power cut. Yeah, but if you hit the back of the stadium on a power cut. Yeah. You're not going to. Then someone at the back's not going to read the notes on the board. The power cut, they stop playing. And that means they know what the score is when they start again, because they've got it down on paper. Have you not heard of a backup generator? No, I haven't heard of a backup generator. Have we got a backup? We got a backup generator? I would imagine you have, yeah. Apparently quite a big deal if we didn't have a backup generator. Being all sorts of trouble on a major event like that. I'm sure they've got a couple of backups. Where is the paper one? Where is it? Exactly. There's two guys. So as you look at the dartboard itself, the guy with the microphone, Ross. I forget his name, but. Ray. Ray. It was his last one last night, wasn't it? He was indeed. Good luck, Ray. Good luck, mate. Good luck with that. When he shook hands. Yeah. So, to the. To the right of him and to the left of the other board, there are two guys with felt tip bends and a giant, a three or a two. White board. Just doing it manually. Doing it manually. And it only occurred to me, watching the semi final, why? Maybe they do the sums. Maybe they do the sums. They still do the sums. Relay that to the person that's then keying in the scoreboard, because that's got to be instant. Those players were so far. They were literally. Yeah. It's a great question. It's a great question. Why do they still do the scores on paper when you know the technology is not only present but. But better, but quicker? Yeah. And if Luke littler phones in. There you go. That's a Ray Liotta all day long, isn't it? Or maybe just Humphreys, though. I don't know. No, we'll accept the defeated finalist. Well, in fact, we'll probably accept any professional dance player as a Ray Liotta. Within reason. Within reason. Thank you, mate. I like that one. Try and get you an answer. Why do they still do the scores with pen and paper at the darts? Why does the display on a microwave or an lcd clock jiggle when you're brushing your teeth, but nothing else does? If you mix spf. Different SPF, suntan creams, lotions, do they add to each other or dilute each other? Why do birds stand on one leg? Can any other animal see their noses? Is there such a thing as man flu? Where does the king do his ablutions on a long conjure car journey? And when will seconds invent? We need some answers. Can we click? Can we get rid of some of these questions? I need these phone lines for. We need some answers. It's 1245. We've only answered two questions. I can't do everything. Get me some answers. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1248. I love listen back. What do we call it? Listen back? Is it called listen back? You know, and rewind live radio and all that stuff because global player and all that. Because some people forget that they're listening. They're not listening live, you know, so I get these messages and I think, what you on about? Sometimes I get messages that were intended for Nick, for Ari, in the first sort of ten minutes of the show. They really. I really do a double take on that. What do you. You can't call me that. Unbelievable. But then sometimes I get some about my own show, but they're like an hour or two out of date. I like this one here from. Well, it doesn't say who it's from. It's not. Thank you for calling him the disgraced former prime minister. James, please keep calling son of John that. Everyone should call him that. The disgraced former prime minister. It's bizarre how that these kind of things get sanitised anyway. Answers, answers, answers. Shane is in Leeds. Shane, question or answer? Answer. James. That's a relief. Oh, happy New year, by the way. Same to you, by the way. Oh, thank you. Right. It's an answer, or attempt at an answer to the seconds question. The second. The modern second didn't become important until the invention of mechanical clocks in the 16th century, I think. Is that right? Yes. I mean, you never see a sundial with seconds on it. This is true. And the division by 60, it's obviously a division of a minute, which is in turn, division of an hour. And that comes from the ancient babylonian counting system, which is a base twelve counting system, which. That's how they counted. That's how they divided the day. A bit chicken and egg, but probably the counting system came before the divisions of the day. Yes, it did. So once the mechanical clocks started coming into existence, they. The first. I think the first clocks that had seconds on it were in the early 16th century. I think it was Huygens who invented. So they were invented by the Babylonians, essentially, and they were popularized by the horologists. No, they were. The modern second was invented by Europeans. The. The second was defined differently in. In pre modern times. Yes. But. But, you know, pre modern people didn't. They didn't need them, they didn't have them, so they didn't. I mean, it's. It isn't. It isn't. Well, it's one of those philosophical conundrum. Is it an invention? Was it invented or was it merely identified and named? You don't invent planets, you discover them. So. Well, they're now defined according to atomic clock. But obviously, back then, two different clocks would be. Would disagree on the legacy, would be slightly different. So the shortest possible answer to the question when were seconds invented? Or who were they invented by? You would say the makers of the. Of the early mechanical clocks. Fair enough. Question, question. Qualifications? Amateur historian. But I happened to read this when I was looking up an answer to a question on QI. Oh, there you go. And there it is. I've lost the question. Who asked the question in seconds? Ross, wasn't it? God, it was the first question of the day. Thank you, Shane. Great work. Have a round of applause. There we go. Rizzo is in Orpington. Rizzo, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on. It's the toothbrush and the little girl in the microwave. Sounds like the beginning of a very strange joke, doesn't it? Go on. Little girl works in Turkey, walks into a microwave, you're gone. Yeah. The reason why the light looks like it's bouncing all over the place is because lcd's and leds, they don't stay on like an incandescent bulb which is constantly on. They flicker. They flicker very fast, 50 times a second, which is 50 hz, which is our electricity in this country. Yeah. So it pulses 50 times a second. And when you use a toothbrush, your head is vibrating, as is your skull and your brain and your eyes. So the light you're only catching, like a very brief glimpse of that flash, so it looks like it's bouncing all over the place. But what's actually happening is your brain is trying to process that pulse of light at any one moment with your eyes jiggling around because of the electric toothbrush that is going to cause what you described exactly. So if you use a manual brush, you won't notice it. You can repeat the same process. If you put your phone looking at an led tv or car headlights, that's an led. You'll see it on the camera flickering away because it's also pulsating. Qualifications? I am a colour scientist. Oh, there it is. Round of applause for Rizzo. Cool job. If I wasn't short of time, I'd ask you some interesting questions, but I am, so I can't. Patrick's in Hartford. Patrick, question or answer? Hi, James question. Sorry. To answer to your question about a monarch going from a to b and then go to the toilet. Yes, carry on. So the route is always pre planned several months in advance. The venue will be scoped by a forward intelligence team, so they'll know every area they could go to, like a police station. There'll be designated pee posts on the way to and from. Indeed, yes. And long distance will be traveled by craft. Aircraft. Yes. At the top of the food chain, of course. Of course. Not for the lower people. And apart from police stations, what else? Because they're not going to go to the sort of Heston services, are they? If needs must be, they will send the forward intelligence teams because they're very soft. Well, they'll go there and say it's good to go. They will go in there. Special escort motorbikes. Go, go, go. PPP. Exactly. It's all fast lane stuff and they don't travel at the same speed as us. They'll be in the outside lane, not stuck in the middle lane, zipping along. I've never seen that on the motorway. I've only ever seen that. And on the a four. Well, it does happen, unfortunately. They do go. No, I know, I know. You hear them blowing their whistles around. Around Westminster, don't you? Qualifications? I think I know. I'm retired from the police service. Yeah, you have to add the second bitch. That's the good. Were you in there? Were you on this beat? Were you on this? I can't say because national protection or security of the council government, etcetera. Oh, fair enough, yeah. So we will never know, will we? Have a round of applause? Goodbye. Thank you, mate. There it is. My friend Nick's been in touch to provide that answer and qualifications where it had indeed come up before a mystery, Albert. But as I said at the outset, if I can't remember it, it never happened. The Boris Johnson approach to presenting radio programs. Toby's in Salzburg. Toby, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Carry on. I cannot believe that I'm answering the second question about sunscreen on this program and my qualification is visiting an animal sanctuary where there was a pig that had live testing of sunscreen. That's right, yes. So the answer is there are different types of sunscreen. There's the milky one. So the milky sunscreen, the sun blocker in it is zinc, right. So if you mix two tabs, like a factor 20 and a factor ten, you would end up with the median, which is factor 15. Yes. However, there are sun oils, tanning oils. There are, yes. And there, the viscosity you mentioned becomes an issue and different viscosities don't mix. What happens? So it becomes an emulsion. Right. So you actually would have a bit of 20 and a bit of ten next to each other. If it would be an even distribution, you would end up speckled like a dalmatian or tiny bit with much smaller spots, like. Depends on how hard you shake the emulsion. But it cannot mix, so it cannot dilute the fact that. Absolutely sensational answer, Toby. And it's the same qualification as last time you answered a question about something. It is peaks with life testing. James, can I just say one thing? Of course. My in laws visited for Christmas and I got the board game. Oh, happy days. Have you played it yet? Yeah. Fantastic. But can I suggest that you bring out a festive edition because, you know, you unwrap the thing and then it's you staring at me. Yes, I think. I think we might be redesigning the packaging without my face. Please do. Yes. That's a little unkind, Toby, but I should give you a round of applause anyway. That's incredible. Who'd have thought when he visited that animal sanctuary and encountered the pig that they used to test sun creams, it would prove so fruitful? David Din. Nottingham. David, question or answer? It's an answer, hopefully. Carry on. I'm not sure about this, but I'm not 100% sure. But I do remember seeing or reading it somewhere on tv or somewhere. And it's about the bird to conserve energy. Yes. Half of the left half of the bird sleeps while the other really stays awake. And so it can actually hold on. Half the bird is asleep, apparently. Yeah, but I mean. I mean, it may be just be something I read which was false. It could be conserving heat energy. I decided. Yes, that's right. Rather than generally. Yes. So it conserves energy. Vigilant. Why does the bird stand on one leg? Answer, to conserve energy. So on one side it sleeps on one side of the body and also the heat that would go out through the foot. That's part of the energy. Yes. I'm going to give qualifications. You think you might have read it one somewhere? Well, I did read it way. Okay. And it might be true. It might be. Round of applause for David. Great work. Thank you, David. Squeezing one more, Elise. Jamie's in Hammersmith. Jamie, question or answer? Yeah, it's an answer. Go on then. It's about the man flu situation. I'm not a medic, but I also read this in the Times. Hello? Yes, of course I'm here, I'm just listening to you. I just heard something tinkle. That's why I read an article in the Times that man flu is probably real because it's a hormonal thing. Men have more testosterone than women. And testosterone some, yeah, and testosterone. Testosterone tends to impede the functioning of the immune system. So you suffer more. So the more manly you are, the more you suffer. I'm a slave. I'm a slave to flu qualifications. You read it in the times. So man flu is a thing. That's a great answer. Well, round of applause for Jamie. Well done giving it to Pete. Chicken nuggets. Pete, as he will henceforth be known, gets this week's mister hour board game that will be winging its way to Manchester. I think Pete was in. Well done, mate. Just made everyone laugh so much. Completely unintentionally, in fact, as Marcus in Chester says. Thank you, James. I've had four laugh out loud moments during this week's mystery hour. If you missed any of it, you can listen back to the whole show. Podcast on global play. You can also pause and rewind live radio. All LBC shows are there to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcast. Pause and rewind. Live radio on global player, where you're always in control. Download it for free from your app. Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Swarbrick will be with you from four, and Sheila Fogarty is with you now.