Why is it no.10 if there aren't 10 houses?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. You're winding me up, aren't you? Is that the time already? I sort of went over my head a little bit a moment ago when Theo suggested that he talked us all the way up to Mistra. But here we are. And here it is. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The way it works is this. You have a question bubbling away somewhere in your brain, maybe in the back, maybe in the front. It will be a question to which other people will be interested in the answer to. That's the only real criteria for inclusion. We used to have others, but they've fallen by the wayside as I've got older and uglier. And now, apart from sort of don't be dull, which is a very nebulous suggestion. Anyway, all we've really got is don't ask me a question unless you can seriously contend that everybody else or a significant number of the people listening would also be interested in the answer. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. The number you need, as always, zero 345-606-0973 if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then ring in and fill your boots. If you go definitive successfully, by which I simply mean, how do you know that thing that you know? I'll say, what are your qualifications? But don't. Don't fall into the trap of thinking you need to have an academic qualification. Qualifications for knowing the thing that you know would be, I saw it on telly last night, or, well, I have a. I have three phds in relevant subjects. Either are equally valid, if you follow me. If your qualification for. And I sensed earlier when I said to a caller who just got back from Nigeria that if she'd actually been on the taxi back from the airport, then she would have got a Ray Liotta. I sensed she didn't actually know what I was talking about, so I should explain. It's Ray Liotta, right? It's not Rayleigh Otter, as in an otter from Essex. It's Ray Lyotta, as in the star of many movies, including Goodfellas. But the voiceover on the film Field of dreams is the one where he says, if you build it, he will come. And we adopted that as a catchphrase for the program many years ago before if you. There's no point having a mind if you never change it. Or yesterday's catchphrase which I presented to you fresh from the box, fresh from the fridge, which is the new catchphrase for the program. Less drama, more calmer. Long before any of that, we recognise that if you do this right, then you don't just get caller after Caller after caller from people complaining about immigration or parking tickets. You could get really illuminating and magical moments of interaction and radio, but that's my job. So the motto of the program became, if you build it, they will come. And then, amazingly, Ray Liotta himself came in to be interviewed by the legend that is Steve Allen. And Steve Allen broke the habit of a lifetime and asked a celebrity guest to do a little favor for him, which in this case was to record a railiota. So if your qualifications for answering the question are breathtaking, if, for example, we ask a question about the moon landings and you actually are Buzz Aldrin, then we will play that little recording and you can tell all your friends and family and indeed enemies, that you are the proud recipient of a Ray Liotta or Liolda from the James O'Brien program seven minutes after twelve. Can we put that on tape somewhere so I don't have to explain it all again? Michael's in Leeds. Michael, question or answer? Here's a question, James, it's become a bit of a habit, this. Carry on. Okay, question. Right, let's talk fragrances and perfumes and anything smelly. I won't bring motoring questions, but we can talk about air freshers in cars. How is it they don't taste the way they smell? I'm just thinking, Michael, take it as a compliment to the quality of your question. Oh, lovely. Is it? If you diluted it and diluted it and diluted it, it would taste like it smells. I think this is a question of concentration. I don't know. You can taste more alcohol. You can taste alcohol or. Well, we've had this question before about alcohol. Does it taste. We don't know. We don't know. Do it? No, let's not get confused. I'm confused enough as it is. So, perfume. So, for example, do you know the difference between an eau de toilette and an eau de parfum? Well, all I know is that the eau toilet does last longer. Or that's what I'm. No, it's the other way around. Is it? Yeah. So if you wanted to get a pure perfume down at the perfume counter, that would come in a tiny little bottle and it's considerably more concentrated than your eau de toilette. So I think, because you, like me, think that your taste buds and your olfactory senses are linked, right? So if you've got no sense of smell, you've probably got no sense of taste either. I don't know. I don't know enough. But I think like you do on this one. And I think that to get a smell that will fill a room, it's got to be really, really concentrated to a degree that if you stick it in your gob, it'll be gross. No? Yeah. Yeah. So that might be. That is probably the answer, but I shall find out for you. In the meantime, promise me you won't drink any perfume. Well, I've had a bit of spray of a well known fragrance that didn't taste like it smelled. It smelled really nice, but it didn't taste anything like it. But it might have done. If you diluted it to a thousand part, like, if you've gone homeopathic on its ass, then it might have taken. I bought some cheap ones from the market. You know, these copies you can buy that are watered down, they still don't taste like the real thing. What do you mean they don't taste like the real thing? I mean, they don't smell like the real thing, but they don't smell or taste like this smell. No. Well, I think that will be concentration, but I will find out for you. Did you know there's such a thing as a super sensor or a super smeller? And people whose noses are so sensitive that they work. There's a place in France, I think it's called grasse, where the sort of international perfume industry is. Is rooted. And there's. I read once, I can't remember why, but I read once about the money you. If you've got the kind of nose. But I digress. Anyway, Michael wants to know why his perfume doesn't taste like it smells. Megan's in my land. Megan, question or answer? Question, please. Yes. So my question is about grapefruit and what specifically about it causes it to interact with medication. Acid. Quite a few medications. Acid, is it? Well, I thought that there's lots of other medications, but actually my auntie was on. Is on hRt. Oh, yeah. And she had really, really bad headaches and couldn't work out what it was. Yeah. And it turned out that it was because she was drinking grapefruit juice. And when she stopped, it just. Oh, yeah, it went away. So why, why, why are drugs affected by grapefruit specifically? I mean, presumably other things are as well, but grapefruit seem to be overrepresented, don't they? Yeah, yeah, and I thought acid, but then I didn't know why that would affect you. You would not accept as an answer to that question because of some chemical in it, would you, Megan? No. I want to know. Yeah, quite right too. No, quite right too. I wouldn't even dream of trying to pass that off as an acceptable response to your question. What is it about grapefruits that has such a deleterious effect on so many medicines? Eleven minutes after twelve. Thank you. And why doesn't perfume taste like. And please just take Michael's word for it. Do not test his claim yourself. All right. If I get into trouble because the country is currently full of people drinking perfume, then I will hold Michael responsible. So take his word for it. Annelie is in Tadworth. Annelie, question or answer? Answer. Carry on to the perfume question. Crikey, you're a bit previous. Go on. Well, there's sort of two aspects to it. Firstly, the perfume will contain chemicals that are recognized as a smell. Right. And they'll also contain chemicals that are registered as a taste. Right. So there's two different chemicals within it, is that right? What do you mean by registered, if you don't mind me asking? Well, your taste receptors work differently to your smell receptors. And taste and smell makes up flavor. I see. But the other thing is when you smell. Yeah? It signals directly into the thing called your limbic system, which is where all your emotions are felt. Okay. Whereas taste, sight, hearing and touch are all sort of cross referenced in your brain. The limbic system. That makes perfect sense. What? Can you give me an example of something that is registered as a smell, not a taste. Well, I mean, there's a lot of different chemicals. Yeah, but what would. What would they taste like, if you see what I mean? Well, you wouldn't. You wouldn't taste them in isolation. You'd only taste them as part of a fragrance. So you'd have the other. So the reason why perfumes don't smell, don't taste like they smell is because they're made up of chemicals that. Well, yes, there's two parts. There's different chemicals. But doesn't everything taste like it smells? It's just a question of concentration. No, because if you don't have a sense of smell, then you can't really taste things. Okay, qualifications? I studied applied biological sciences and I'm an aromatherapist. Yeah. Oh, Plymouth. What's your favorite smell? Rose. Is it? Yeah. Interesting. Which has three over 300 chemicals. Does it really. And yet rose is one of those things where I would say it tastes like it smells. Have you eaten roses? No, but I've eaten turkish delight. Well, that's. That's made from the floral water rather than the essential oil, which is why I was talking about levels of concentration, you see. Yeah. When you distill it, you get different chemicals coming off at different temperatures. Yes. And the bit you get left over with at the end where it comes through the water, is the floral water, but you've already extracted the oil part, the volatile compounds that make the essential oil. That's the point. Round of applause for Anili. Beautiful answer. Thank you. No, thank you. Twelve. Well, it's actually 12:15. We've already answered one, which means we've only got the grapefruits left on the table and plenty of room for you to submit a question of your own. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1217 is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why does grapefruit juice have an effect on so many medicines? Drugs. Legal and illegal, I'm told. But that is the only question left on the board after we went definitive on the question of why perfume doesn't taste like it smells. So I've got room for you. And the number you need to get your question on the board or to answer any questions that you hear is zero. 345-606-0973 Graham's in Guildford. Graham, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. Well, you know when they build tall skyscrapers like the sharks and that big thing in Dubai and all the other ones, they've got a tower crane right on of the building. Yeah. Yeah. Because they can't build the tower crane big enough to do it. Yeah. How do they get that crane back down the. The. With another crane. Yeah, but what crane? A crane that is put up on blocks block by block. We've done this before and it's a really weird one, this. It's like trying to pat your head and rub your tummy. I can never quite get my. Get my answer in order. So cranes work in the way you're describing the jobs, you're describing cranes working in pairs. And you get the one you need there for a long time up by using another one. And you get the one that you need to get rid of down by putting it up in pieces. So then the crane you've got up, the crane that stays there is put up in pieces. So you take it down piece by piece but how did you get it back down? By using another crane. Well, why don't they use that crane in the first place? Yeah, that's where I fall down, isn't it? That's the bit. That's the chicken and egg bit, isn't it? Genuine? I mean, it is basically a chicken and egg riddle, this. But I know the answer. You know, you must get this, Graham. I know the answer. I just can't get my hands on it at this point in proceeding. So how do they get the massive cranes down from the top of buildings when the job is finished? Yes. And if they. If they've got a crane that can get that down, why don't they use that crane in the first place? Yeah, all right. There was an urban myth. You know, loads of people get their basements done these days instead of moving house. There was an urban myth that for some of the massive ones, they were doing in sort of Mayfair and Chelsea and places like that. I don't know if it was an urban myth or not, but there were rumors that it was so expensive to get the JCB out of the basement after they finished digging it, that they left it down there, they buried it, they dug another hole. So it might be that every massive skyscraper in the world, if you were to actually tool up the fire escape from the top floor, you'd find a secret. There'd be a secret crane in there. But I'll be amazed if that is the correct answer. How do they. You understand the question? The massive cranes on the top of buildings that are used in the building process, how do you get them down when you're finished? And if you use a crane to do it, why didn't they use that crane all along? Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We missed something. But anyway, I shall leave it on the board. Cranes and buildings zero. 345-606-0973 Ammon dip is in Watford. Question or answer? Ammon dip. Answer. Hello, James. Hello. Carry on. Grapefruits. So, my understanding is that grapefruits contain certain compounds or chemicals that interfere with the metabolism of drugs. So when humans ingest drugs or medicines, or whether illegal or not, they get metabolized by the liver. So those chemicals in the grapefruit interfere with enzymes in the liver that break down drugs. So drugs are not broken down quickly or not strongly enough. And that would explain why you get high levels of drugs in the blood that give nasty side effects. So that's the answer to grapefruits. So it's. So if, for example, a person who shall remain unnamed, had suggested to me that if you were ever, and God forbid anyone would ever do this, it's criminal and wrong and dangerous on all sorts of levels. But if you were having a, what I believe is called a bad LSD trip, there is a suggestion in sort of student circles that drinking grapefruit juice is a way to curtail the horrors. That is an urban myth because actually it would block the grapefruit juice, would block the metabolisation, so it would stay in the system stronger for longer. So in theory, too much drug in your body would be the result. If it affects that drug, I'd like to maybe just put a caveat on what I said. So the enzymes in the grapefruit juice only affect certain enzymes in the liver that metabolize certain drugs? It's very, very complex, but I'm not aware of that LSD urban myth. But no, I'd have to probably say officially, no comment on that. No, no drugs, of course, but that's all it is. It's an enzyme and metabolization that is the thing. There's an enzyme. There's an enzyme in a grapefruit or no, grapefruit juice has something in it that can block the enzyme from working. Correct. Simple as that. Qualifications. I'm a pharmacist. That'll do. Nice work. 22 after twelve. Mike is in New Milton. Mike, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on, Mike, who decides or who decided how to number roads? Do you not? How did you speak to a man or a woman before you got put through? A man. What do we say about motoring questions, my dudes? Seriously. It's not about. It isn't about a motoring question. Who numbers the roads? That's a motoring question. Or are you going to argue it's a cartography question? Well, I could do if I remember that word in time. Well, I think the answer will be the Department of Transport, won't it? I have no idea. That's what I'm asking. Who else would it be? Who's responsible for roads? Well, I don't know. That's the question I'm asking. There appears to be no logic. There is a logic to it. It just gets confusing because roads get extended and stuff. All right, you're on. Who decides how to number roads in the UK and how do they do it? 0345. The reason I got a bit impatient with that question is not because it's a motoring question, actually, that's just me being a grumpy so and so increasingly. I know this is a sign of age, isn't it? Depending on how long they keep me employed here, you'll be able to map my mental decline over the coming years. As I find myself forgetting more and more and more. I'm sure I knew the answer to the crane question. And I'm about 40% sure I want to know the answer to that as well. Zara is in Finchley. Zara, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Firstly, can I just say, my little boy crawled and I got through to you today, so it's a good day. That's a double bubble, isn't it? That's incredible. What's your little boy called? Beau. And that's his first ever crawl? Yeah. Was he crawling away from the radio after you put me on? Well, you know, let's not go there, Dan. Everything's good. What's the question? So my question is, when you don't know someone's name, you know what it's not. And I want to know what happens in your brain. So, like, if somebody said to me, like, if I couldn't remember your name, and they said it's Bob, I know it wasn't Bob, even though I don't know what it is. Oh, wow. That's a very complicated question. Yeah. So you know. So you can't remember something, but you can somehow remember enough. You know what it's not, even though you don't know what it is. You must have that if you can't. No, I do. I'm just trying to put it into words in order to make the question more likely to admit an answer. And I understand exactly what you're saying. What's his name? What's his name? Is it John? No, it's not John. It's not Jack? It's not Jerry? It's not Jim. It's not. So how come you can know what it isn't when you don't know what it is? Yeah, exactly. Do you know, I love that question. I thought you would. I knew it was the day. It doesn't mean it's going to get an answer. But I love it. I love where it's sort of letters. We shall try and find out for you, I promise. Give our love to Beau. Keep an eye on him. Now everything changes. Is he your first? Yes, he is. Everything changes now. Zara, have you done all the stuff? Have you locked everything down? Have you got all the furniture bolted to the wall? And you've got the little plug hole things from Ikea. Have you done all that, Zara? Have you Zara. Zara, have you. I believe that baby's skulls are pretty robust or we wouldn't have survived this long. So, you know, he'll learn. He'll learn by doing. You learn the hard way. There are some things you can do. But perhaps you're right to suggest that we managed. We child, children of. I'm not suggesting Zara is a child of the seventies, but we. Having said that, my sister and I did once climb into a wardrobe and use it as a spaceship. And then the wardrobe did detach itself from the wall and crash to the floor in our bedroom in quite a dangerous fashion. And mum and dad obviously came into the bedroom and just found a flat wardrobe on the floor. And they were terrified. But because we've been using it as a spaceship, we'd put ourselves in the little compartments quite effectively. So although we were quite shaken and frightened, we were utterly unharmed. It's anecdotes like that, that's why they pay me the silly money. Steve's in Canterbury. Steve, question or answer? Hello? Hello? Answer. Carry on. I'm in a tower crane in Canterbury. I'm jealous. Well, what they do is it will take itself down. They'll put a jack on the mast. Yeah. And unbolts it so it holds it together. But the lumbar take the sections down and. How can I take it away? Who takes the sections down? The crane driver. You take yourself down. That's the bit I don't get. How can you take something from beneath you without it being a problem or dangerous? Well, what they do, they clamp to your mast. The actual mast that you climb up to get to the cab up the top? Yeah. They'll clamp two sections and then the section in the middle, they'll unbolt and take away. Hook it onto my crane and then I'll lower it down and take it away. And then it's all put down and then gradually comes down to a level. Oh, so the crane, the cab comes down like a vertical railway, almost. You come down. Yeah. Bit by bit, until you're low enough that mobile cranes can get to you. And then you'll come out the crane and then they'll take all the other sections away. And that. And that answers the question of why you don't use the cranes that you use to take the sections away to do the job that the tower crane does, because they. They're not going to be able to reach as high as the tower crane. No, no. Once you get too high. Yeah. Oh, that's a beautiful answer. Because it is clamped into the building once you. I think, every 90 meters. Yeah, I've got it. I can picture it in my mind, but again, I'll forget, you know, it's such a weird one, isn't it? It's one of those things that I can understand, but which I'm amazed. I'm always wanted to talk to you. Well, here you are in the air. Are you at this point in time? I'm on a baby crane. Really? I'm about 40 meters. That's pretty good. I wanted to do the whole show from upper tower Crane once, but I was in Vauxhall before this one. Were you? And that was 189 meters. Whoa. And you climb up there on foot, so to speak, hands and feet. Hands and feet up the ladder. And then you stay up for a whole shift, presumably? Yeah. You can come down for brakes, but that high. We try and get them to pay to stay up. Well, here's a bit of a weird thing, all right, Steve? Yeah. I've got another crane operator on the other line who's also upper crane and he disagrees with you. Right, well, then. But I can't. How can he disagree with you? You're upper. Shall we find out after the news? He obviously knows more than I do. Well, how can he know more than you do? You're up the flipping thing. I don't know that. Us Crane drivers, we're always arguing. Are you? But not about how you get up in the air, mate. That is not something you can argue about because you flip it. Right. Can I? Can you hang on or have you got a crack on? Who's going to tell you off? You're 49ft in the air. They will meet Mark in Raynham, but I don't want to be late for the news. So, the battle of the Cranes after the very latest headlines with Holly Harris. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1235. I'm such a joker, I should battle the clash. Clash of the cranes. Clash of the cranes live on LBC. The question was, how do they get down those massive cranes that you see on building sites when they built massive buildings? And we thought that Stephen Canterbury had gone definitive with his answer, not least because he was upper crane when he provided the answer. But Mark in Raynham is on the other line and apparently you want to challenge the answer from your comrade, your crane based comrade. Mark, is this true? Yes. Did you hear me, James? Well, yeah, you're on the phone, mate. I mean, you might be up a crane, but, I mean, they still work, don't they? Yeah, I'm a whole excited, a little nervous. So what did Steve get wrong? I know it's only you. It's only me. Don't be nervous. What. What did. What did Steve get wrong? It's a darker crane. The Dorcan crane is up on top of the shard. Yeah? Yeah. As we talk. And it. And you, the window cleaner, can go in it and do clean the windows. And it also takes the crane down to the level. That's what he said. No, he said. He didn't say nothing about a Dorca crane. He didn't say the word dorka, but he described precisely what it does, James. Yes. He didn't use the word, but he described accurately what it. Why am I shouting? I don't know, James. I know. I'm all the way up here. Give us a wave. Yeah, because the site agent come on the phone to you when the question was before, about a year or two ago, and you'd left your phone as well. You'd left your phone downstairs, hadn't you? So you were stuck. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I think. Steve. Steve, am I right? Is that. You described correctly, but Mark has provided us with the technical term. What's going on now? Is that the. What's the siren? Sorry, that's me. I'm actually lifting. Well, you get back to work, Steve. Seriously? Yes. So you're talking about two different things. So the crane state. Yeah. I'm going to give you both a round of applause, lads. All right? Happy days. You look after yourself, Mark. What's the height of your crane? 49ft sizes and everything. Mark, you know that. It's 1237. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. And having satisfactorily concluded our crane based clash. Oh, man, I love mystery hour. When things like that happen, then we need to actually remind ourselves what other questions are awaiting answers. I think that. So that lovely question, and there's probably a word for it, where you can't remember something but you know what it isn't. So, the best example that was provided by Zara, I very nearly called Zoe then, oddly. But the best example is names. So there is someone, they come into the room and you can't remember their name. But if I suggested to you that their name was x, you would know it was not x. What. What is happening in your brain when that happens? Brad is in Newcastle to put. Well, question or answer, Brad, you tell me. It's a question. Carry on. So I literally just visited a garage and they had a promotional stand where they had some gloves on. Seal. Yeah. That. Advertisers smartphone gloves. Really? What will they think of next? Brad, what will they think of next? But my question is, how do those smartphone gloves work? Your smartphone but a normal pair of gloves won't? Yeah, all right. I mean, I was thinking we could probably work it out. It'll be something to do with. But I can't, so I won't. And we'll put it on the board. Yeah, but how? Why would you use a smartphone? Oh, you mean because it's cold? So you wear them because it's cold and it means you can still use your phone? Yeah. Ah. I thought. I don't know why, I just thought it was a kind of specific glove for a smart. As if you were supposed to. I'm just a bit dopey sometimes. So. How. Yeah, all right, go on. Did you buy any? No, I've already got a pair. You got a pair of smartphone gloves already? Yeah, but the pair I've got are woolen, but these ones were leather. But the ones that I've got that are woolen have got three different finger ends that are a different color and that's what allows you to use your smartphone. But it's made of cotton or wool. But I just don't understand. Well, nor do I. It'd be something to do with conductivity. Will it? Do you work outdoors? No. Why do you need them then, you big girls blouse? Because it's cold up north. Yeah, but not so cold that you can't take your glove off to use your phone. Who do you think you are? Scott of the Antarctic? 1240 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. I love that. Smartphone gloves and then forgetting names. Is there anything else? Have I missed anything else? Is that always a good one? This week, a lot of love coming in for our two crane drivers. I'm not frankly surprised. That was magic. Mix in Chesham. Nick, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. I've got a question. Hello. Carry on. I was driving from Uxbridge, having just visited balcony shirts. Which is a very fine purveyor of t shirts. It is, actually, yes. Do you know he was in the New York Times the other day after crafting a t shirt based on Baroness Hale's famous spider brooch? Yeah, I couldn't have to. A nicer bloke. You're not wrong there. You're not wrong there. Go on. So there you were in Uxbridge thinking about. I've got horrible things. Going to be a really simple answer to this, but I'm going to ask it anyway. Yeah. I was driving towards Beaconsfield and I thought to myself, this is all uphill. So then I thought, I wonder how much further uphill it is from Uxbridge to Beaconsfield. It turns out it's 60 meters. So then I thought, how on earth. How do you find out? I googled it. Oh, right. Which is boring. No, it's not. It's not. Well, what's really weird is that Beaconsfield is actually almost exactly the same height as Big Ben above the city of London, which is kind of a little fact. Yeah, but my question was, how the hell do they measure it? What, sea level? Well, not sea level, but height above. Well, yeah, but they measure it by deciding where sea level is. Right. So that's the question. Where do they measure sea level from? Okay, and the answer is probably Greenwich. There's no see. There's no see. No, I'm not. Obviously, I'm not going to try and pass. No, it won't be. It'll be that. It's a bit like charing cross, you know that? I think it is. Anyway, so if you're coming up. See, sometimes, I don't know about you, but my mind goes off, like yours does on little flights, I fancy. Sometimes when I'm in the car, that's just the tip of the iceberg. Yeah, tell me about it. Seriously, Nicholas, we haven't got time to even dig any further. But, but, but sometimes, if I'm coming from the west or the east, and I work out, I try to work out why it says London on a map. And if I'm coming. Do you see what I mean? Because I live in west London, so if I'm coming from the west, if I'm coming from Basingstoke or somewhere like that, I get home before I get to London, if you see what I mean. Whereas if I'm coming from the east, I get to London before I get home, and that is because all London measurements are taken from Charing Cross, so they agree on a central point. So there must be something. There must be something like that for sea level. And that will be your answer, won't it? That will be where they're all measured from. Well, I'd like to think so, but it just fascinates me. Somebody actually found all this out at some point. Yeah. And also, how do they measure it? Not where do they measure it from, but how do they actually measure it? So, if you and me were to go and stand on top of a hill in Beaconsfield. How do we work out how far we are from sea level? Well, that's simple. You just say, oh, blimey, it's a bit high. I'm going to do my best to get you an answer. Nick. What were you getting from the Yuksbridge king of t shirts? No, I've just given him an advert. Well played. 1243 is the time. Tim's in Bournemouth. So. Yeah, sea level. How do they do it? Where and where from, Tim? Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. When you. When there's a big storm around the country. Yeah. And you get up the next morning and on, say, one of the radio stations or the news, it says there were 18,000 lightning strikes that night. Do they. Do they do that? How do they record how many lightning strikes there be? Are you sure they do? I've never heard that before. Yeah, yeah, that comes up on the news the next morning. Are you sure? Positive. Okay. I don't know. There must be some way of recording it. I'm just wondering how they do. There must be. I mean, we used to have Stevenson. Stevenson screens when I was a kid. Do you remember them? I don't. They were like little boxes that did weather stuff. I hope you're writing this down. Practically a PhD thesis, like rainwater. And I don't know whether. There's lots of little stations all over. I can't think of how else they would do it. Oh. Unless they do it from space. And that doesn't make sense. I just. I'm not. It's the premise of your question that I'm struggling with because I've never noticed it before. Yeah, certainly does. All right. Okay, you're on. So, morning after a big storm and they say there's been x number of lightning strikes. How do they know? I mean, that's a brilliant question. If the central premise is correct, which I presume it is. So we've got lightning strikes and sea level. They're a bit similar, but different enough to stay on the board. That lovely question about the psychiatry of forgetting names, but knowing what it isn't. And how does smartphone gloves work? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those. And still room for a couple more questions, probably as well. It's 1245. Coming up at one on LBC, Sheila Fogarty. A large poll questioning over 100,000 people predicts an outright Tory victory. A much smaller, more recent one points to a hung parliament. What are you hearing Sheila Fogarty on LBC? Mystery hour with James O'Brien? This is LBC 1248 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we still await questions to four answers, even to four questions, how do smartphone gloves work? Bear with me, all right? If you're just tuning in, it gets better. You know when you can't remember someone's name but you do know what it isn't, what's going on in your brain. Hey, hey, hey. Where do they measure sea level from? And how do they count lightning strikes? Steve is in Milton Keynes. Steve, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. First of all, I just want to say I think you're a legend and I think you're really great at what you do. Anyway, I'll stop. That aside, seriously, answer to smartphone gloves. So, yeah, you're right, conductivity. So what there is is such a thing as conductive thread. So they'll loop through a conductive thread to the inside where your hand is. So the conductivity from your hand makes connection with that thread and then they loop it through to the outside of the glove, so that makes contact with the screen. So you have that connection between the two important parts. It's quite straightforward. And things like wool and cotton are not normally conductive, then. Correct. And the. So what would be in the thread? Some sort of man made fiber or. Yes. To be honest with you, I'm not exactly sure. It doesn't matter. The makeup of it. The guy said about the different color. Yes, yes, that's right. That's purely just to make it identifiable quickly. So you know which one is the one that has the thread. That makes sense, doesn't it? Almost perfect. Has qualifications. Up until about a couple of weeks ago, I used to work for a major smartphone manufacturer. What? Is everything all right? I started my own business. Oh, brilliant. Doing what? Creative solutions. So, like, small design agency. Fantastic. Do you want to give yourself a plug or anything like that, or are you cool? Yeah, go on then, agency. There you go. Say again. Say it again. Cocoon agency. Cocoon agency. I love it. There you go. See, that's what happens when you come on and say lovely things to me. You get a free advert money couldn't buy live on the radio for all your creative solutions. That's where you go. And a round of applause for Steve, please, and good luck. Steve. Seriously, mate, good time to start a new business. I know that might sound odd, but if you can wash your face in the current economic climate, then you should be set up for it. But you know all this. Jack's in Watlington in Oxfordshire. Jack, question or answer? It's a question, please, James, carry on. It's actually a question from my eight year old boy. We were getting ready for bed the other day, we were talking about the monarchy, kings and queens and stuff, and he said. I can't remember the question now. He said, it's the nerves, james, carry on. He said, who decided who the first king or queen would be? And I thought, oh, that's a good question. And he said, yeah, go on. Yeah, yeah. He said, that might be quite a good question for the mystery out, because I'm always going on about it. Oh, bless it. The problem is. Yeah, go on. Well, sorry, mate, I interrupted you. No, I was only gonna say that I sort of looked online at your website to see if it's been asked before. I couldn't see it, so I thought I'd go. That's a very professional approach to proceedings. I do try. The problem is what he means by king, isn't it? Because if he just means chief, like head person, it probably becomes quite easy to. Yeah, well, I suppose he probably means, like, the first official official king, as in, like the modern monarchy, I guess, in the UK or. Yeah, UK or England, I guess. Yeah. Well, then you're looking at a bloke called Athelstan, who was one of the children of Alfred. Although, hang on, I must get this the right way around. He must have been one of Alfred's forebears. Well, look, the answer is Athelstan, and here's what you've got to do, right? You just say it in a way that sounds really authoritative and then you won't have to answer any other questions about what or when or where. You've got the angles and the Saxons. This is all pre Norman, and then the Celts and all these sort of warring factions. So pre Norman, post Roman. I'm pretty sure Athelstan was the first man who could be Athelstan. Aeth e l s t a n was the first person who could be reasonably described as a king of England, I think. And the answer to there were other kings, but he was the one that united all the different warring factions. Yeah. So he would have been the first united first king of England, not Scotland, the Picts and all of that. They were. I mean, they were not under the rule of. But I think that's your man. And I'll leave the question on the board for someone who can say it in a slightly more clever sounding way. Than I just managed. All right. Okay, great. Thank you very much. Thank you, Jack. 1253. Wayne, is it? Oh, Wayne is in Basildon. Question or answer, Wayne? It's a question, my friend. Why didn't you go to Scott's party? I did go to a scotch party, but I didn't go to that scotch party. Why not work the next day? I'll tell you about the other. I broke my head open last Friday at the other Scott's party and I was a bit of a mess. But anyway, I've got a question. Was it. Did you fall up the stairs? Yeah, yeah. I've heard reports about this, mate. It doesn't sound pretty. Are you all right now? Yeah, I'm up. Well, my head's weeping at the moment, so enjoy your lunch, everyone. There's a lovely picture from Wayne in Basildon. All right, crack on. Question or answer? It's a question. I just wanted to know why the most venomous, mostly the most venomous creatures live in hot countries. Like you don't get, like, black widows in England and at the same time, you don't get sort of like rattlesnakes in New York, but you would get them in Texas and you go Australia and everything's trying to kill you. That's a really good question. Why do they live in hot places? Even them, like, them frogs that live in the Amazon? Yeah, that you mess you up. Them frogs what live in the Amazon. I've spent years raising the standards of this program verbally. And in terms of them frogs what live in the Amazon. Wayne? Yeah. I'm just trying to, you know, I'm reaching out to the demotic, balancing things out for. I love that. I love that question. What could it. What would it be? Venom. Yeah. Why would they. Why would they need to be that venomous? Because they're in a hot country. Nothing freezing cold. That's poisonous. That's venomous. You can't sort of like a kind of. Not really. I can think of. No. So there's nothing over here that can really kill you, is it? Well, we've got, like, adders and. That's right. Presumably our climate, if we lived in hot, hotter countries, there would be more threats like scorpions or anything with a. With a. With a. With a venomous. What a lovely question. What made you think of that? I was doing a loft survey a couple of weeks ago because I did phone up with this question a couple of weeks ago and got pied. Oh, sorry. That was. That was only under instructions. There's a note on the switchboard. Yeah, go on. And the lady said, oh, can you please be careful? Don't any spiders dropping down. And I said to her, well, there's nothing in. In this country that's gonna drop down and bite you, you're fine. And it just made me think, oh, well, there isn't anything in this country that's gonna do that. That is probably, almost certainly can't leave any other explanations to why that would be. Because of our climate. Wayne, great work. Look after yourself, mate. 1255 is the time. Bit short of time. Speaking of time. So if you know the answer to Wayne's question, then fill your boots quickly. Why are venomous creatures confined to hot countries? Adrian's in Westminster. Adrian, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's the lightning strikes. It's true. Is it? We do have a count the day after a storm on how many lightning strikes there were. I don't know about the count, but I think I've worked out how they do it. Oh, go on. So, during a few lightning storms, I've been sitting there in bed and you obviously see the flash. You do the count work out how far away it is? Yeah. I don't know the exact calculation for it, but anyway, I was wondering where the strikes were, so I went online and there's storm trackers and you can track exactly where the lightning strikes are from? Satellite. They triangulate it via weather stations and they must just count them up. So, from satellites, then? No, I would have assumed there'll be weather stations on the ground. So they'll have a sensor in there that picks up a flash and then another weather station, forever apart, will pick up their photos. Yeah. That was my original answer, so that I got it. Yes. Qualifications? I'm a bit of a nerd watching the storms. No, I'm going to give you a round of applause for that, because I think you're almost certainly correct and we're short of time. But I still don't remember ever hearing on the news that there were x number of lightning strikes in last night's storm, but there we go. David's in Amsterdam. David, question or answer? Forgetting the name. Yes. Are you hearing me? Good. Well, yeah, good enough. What happens? What is going on, David? I'm in the center station in Amsterdam waiting for my Eurostar. Fantastic. Which question are you going to answer? The answer regarding forgetting the name. Yes. It's associated with the long term memory. So it's not the short term memory? No, long term memory. Right. Normally what we associate or sometimes when new information gets processed by the brain. We associate it with either an association clue. Yes, or a clue diet, like how you wear color or some, or smell. So it will imprinted that information and generally speaking. Or you associate the new information by processing it with an association. Yeah, I get that. But what is happening when if I forgot your name now and Sheila Fogarty said to me, is it Donald? Is it Daniel? Is it? And I'd say, no, it's definitely not donald, it's definitely not Daniel. So I can't remember what it is, but I know. I know what it isn't. What's going on, then? You're gonna laugh. We call it freezing. Freezing. Freezing, yeah, brain freezing. That's. Yeah, but is that it? Is that the answer? That's the answer. Nobody knows. Exactly. We are still working on this. Don't know. Well, when you say we, that leads me to my final question, which is, what are your qualifications? I'm a neuroscientist and a psychiatrist. Well, round of applause for David. I already have already got, sir. Yeah, all right. You know, you can keep. Wayne's got about 30. Professor Howe's way ahead of you, David. Take care. Central Station announced there. They're listening everywhere. Probably got us on the speakers. Tim's in Twickenham. Question or answer, Tim? Answer. Carry on. Snakes. The reptiles. Yes. Very simple answer is that they are cold blooded, so they wouldn't be able to survive in cold areas. They wouldn't exactly warm. Yeah, of course they are, yeah. They survive in warmer climates because they use the heat to regulate their body temperature. Qualifications? I'm australian. Round of applause for Tim. Oh, man alive. But thank you, mate. Vintage. Absolutely vintage. Mystery. And to think some people don't like it. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten, here's Sheila Fogarty. What's wrong with them? Thank you, James. An all party debate on the environment takes place tonight on Channel four. In itself, that's an illustration of how far we've come in our awareness of the issue. But there's another illustration I want to focus on as well. On the same day we learn our shopping bag habit is as bad as ever. 50 plus bags for life every year per household. What will make you and me do more to save the planet and the people on it? Up after the news, a Tory majority of well over 60. That's what a large scale YouGov poll is predicting after questioning more than 100,000 people. Thing is, a much smaller comrades poll examining more recent voting intention puts things much closer. What are you hearing? What's your election campaign feeling like? And telling you on your radio? On global player and play LBC leading Britain's conversation. This is LBC.