Why does sunlight fade things?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'BrIEN, Mystery R is upon us your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that is not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. If you have a question that needs an answer, try not to be boring. I know that that's difficult to judge ourselves. I don't know when I'm being boring. You decide when I'm being boring. I don't know when I'm being boring. I never think I'm boring. Maybe I am never boring. But anyway, try not to be boring. Repetitious is forgivable. Repetition even is forgivable, because it's my job, really, to look out for stuff that's been done before. Don't ring in with a really obvious question about, for example, baby pigeons or white dog poo or something like that. It's stuff that everyone else listening is going to go, oh, yeah, you know, I'd like to know that as well. And if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then you ring the same number and provide it. And if you're correct and we are persuaded of your credentials, you will receive a mystery, a round of applause. If you have credentials that are almost unbelievably apposite relevant, you may get a ray Liotta, which is the highest honour that british radio can bestow upon listeners. 2593. Be quick. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you haven't heard it before, give yourself a few minutes to get what's going on. If you know exactly what's going on, then fill your boots, book your place on the board. Right now. Who, why? What, where, when, whither, anything that you've sort of thought about and thought that, well, why do we do that? When does that happen? Or even ifs. If that what? You know, exactly. What are the little stuff that's buzzing away in the back of your brains? Hopefully we can get answers today and you're not allowed to look anything up. I won't bore you with the full spiel on this, but it was born of the idea that there was somehow something sad but inevitable about taking calculators into maths exams. For the generation that didn't have calculators, it felt like it was somehow wrong. For my generation, which has the Internet, the whole notion of knowledge and memory and remembering things is going to be utterly unrecognizable by the time we pop our proverbials. So this is just an attempt to hold back the tide and to hark back and enjoy and celebrate. The notion of knowledge that learned information is a boon is a good thing. Six minutes after twelve is the time Carla is in Bromley. Question or answer, Carla? Hello. It's your question. Of course, James. Thanks for taking my call. Brilliant introduction. And it seems rather lame in light of your loss. You know, what's been going on, however. What I would like to know. I have known it, by the way. You have what? I'm one of the old fashioned. I have no Internet. Really? I'm one of the old fashioned people who doesn't have a smartphone. I'm not smart enough to. But you have Internet at home, though, do you or something? I do most of the time. Computers. It goes on and off. Okay, fair enough. All right. Yeah. Well, actually, at the moment I feel pretty deprived, but there we are. I have tried to look it up before. Okay, so I went along to the fishmongers the other day. Yes. And I've asked the same in Sainsbury's. Yes. Nobody seems to be able to answer the question. It's very rare when one goes by scallop as one does with roe. The orange bit. The orange bit, exactly. In a scallop, which to me is the tastiest bit. Although I feel a bit bad about eating all those babies and stuff. Invariably, almost invariably, it's the rosemary. Now one sees row of other fish. I can't remember which ones. He would probably. What's the question? Sorry to hurry you, Carla. What happens with the scallop row? Because I've not seen it. You don't. You can't buy scallop row by itself. What happens? You can. You can buy it in little pots. Yeah. You can buy it at my local fishmongers. I like scallop row with streaky bacon. Yeah, you can. I mean, I think I've seen it in pots, like, whole, but. But that might be rare. It's a good question, actually. What happens to the scallop? I wonder if Rex is listening. That's a little bit. That's a little bit of an insider, that for the. For the retail, for the food, for the food and drink community of Chelsea, we shall see whether or not we get a call from. From one of the. Really, really love tonight. I would as well. It's a great question because you, you often don't get the roi like you quite like the roe, but it is a much saltier. It's a much more fishy flavor than the scallop itself. The scallop itself could. Could pass as a. Not even a seafood, depending on what it was cooked with, whereas the roe is unmistakably marine in origin. And a lot of recipes say you can remove the roe. I like that. Carlo. I shall try and get you an answer. What happens to the rows, lads? Simon is in Harleston. Simon, question or answer? Question, please. James. Good afternoon, sir. Hello. What can I do for you? This has been pondering me for a while, but why do we stand on the right on escalators, at the. On the tube in general, and stamp and it says keep left as we're walking in corridors? Why does it say keep left in corridors? In train stations it says keep left. Does it? So keep left in the corridors and stand on the right on the tube? Yes, yes. Good question, that. Actually, I was going to start teasing you for being rubbish, but I'm looking at the faces of my colleagues and they're all intrigued and they're also not. Research was stumped as well. Say that again. Your research was stumped as well. To be honest, that's. That's unremarkable. Yeah. I confuse myself. Why do we stand on the right on the escalators and then sort of all cross over when you get to the corridor? Someone from London underground, please. Liz is in staines. Liz, question or answer is? Question. Carry on. Oh, Liz got. Liz. Get staged fright. Rob is in Putney. Rob, question or answer? Question. Carry on. When I leave my bread out, it goes stale and appears to lose water. When I leave my biscuits out, they go the opposite. They go soggy and appear to absorb water. I know this. This is actually intrinsic to the definition of a cake and a biscuit. Do you remember when there was some controversy surrounding Jaffa cakes? Indeed. Was it a cake or a biscuit? Is it something to do with oil ingredients? Well, it's obviously something to do with ingredients, but what starts off hard? I don't know. Oh, rap. I thought I knew that. I'll try and get you an answer. So why do biscuits go limp but bread goes stiff? Why are you laughing? Because you don't know the answer. That's normal. It's mystery hour. I'm not supposed to know the answer to everything. That would be really boring. Biscuits. Biscuits go limp and bread goes stiff. Something to do with oil. But it's not coming. It's not. It's not happening. Ten minutes after twelve. I do that sometimes. I do the. It's a bit like distraction. Start talking about Jaffa cakes. Look over there. And my brain is trying to step up a gear in my. Come on. Drag it up, get this information, get this. It's just not happening. I got nothing. I got nothing. Except Jaffa cakes. Jaffa cakes. Liz is in stains. Let's try again. Liz, I'm so sorry. I don't know, it just went. Obviously, I was too boring. No, it's because the Russians. The Russians got. Got the message a bit late that we were talking about the Russians, but they got the message. Listen, I go to the gym, and every time I go to the gym, they make me do burpees, which are evil burpees. Everyone who goes to the gym will know they're disgusting things. They really hurt. What are they? Describe burpees. It's like, okay, you get down on the floor, you do like a jump. You pull your feet back. You go back again, you jump up in the air. Oh, yeah. Yeah. They're hard work and they make you do them. When you've done something bad, like you've turned up late or you haven't, or you cross your arms or whatever. Do ten burpees. That's the weirdest word. I was thinking doing them the other day. Burpee doesn't make you burp. It can't be that. And it's aee at the end. Why burpees? It's probably an acronym. Is it? Do you think I thought about that? I thought really? Well, it's like six, seven letters. Burpees. Quite a complicated acronym. Body under re? No. Get out of town. It's someone that does what someone should know. I've never heard of it before, though. I mean, you did maybe stagger to hear this. They're really common and they're really unpleasant, and everybody that goes to the gym thinks, please don't make me do burpees. I know the maneuver. I know the maneuver, but I didn't know it was called a burpee. People who've seen me in the flesh may find this very, very hard to believe, but I'm not a massive exerciser. Well, maybe you would notice, but I don't. I asked the gym instructor because I thought, if it's so obvious, and I asked this question on Thursday, people all over the country are going to laugh at me. And she said, I don't know. I thought, you're making me do them. And you don't even know why they called that. I shall do my best for you, Liz, to get to the bottom of the burpees. So we need to know why burpees are called burpees. Why bread goes stiff but biscuits go limp. As they stale why we. And it's a bit London centric, that one. I'm surprised it got through, as I seek to spread the word up and down the country on the corridors one the London Underground. Does it, does it, does it hold? What do you mean? You said it to him. It's no good saying it to him. Is it true on british rail stays? Not. Is it? You never say. You don't get escalators at british rail stations, though. But anyway, lots of people come to London who don't live here, so it's important that you know why you stand on the right on the escalators and on the left when you're going through the corridors. And what happens to all the scallop rows, given that quite often when you buy scallops. Very good question, this. Quite often when you buy scallops, the rows have been removed, the rows are the orange bit. And I quite like the fact that I can hear. Hang on, what's that noise? I can hear some gammon, little gammons exploding. Because what they're doing is they go, oh, middle class. Ooh, it's talking about scallops. And then they're remembering in their little gamini brains that we were supposed to be having a war with the French about scallops. So actually, scallops are really important and they're not a middle class cliche and evidence of metropolitan elites. Oh, poor gammons. Jordan's in Merseyside. Jordan. Question or answer? Good afternoon. It's a question. Please carry on, Jordan. So I tried to pre order a book last night and you might have heard of it, actually. It's called how to be right in a world gone wrong. Author's a bit full of himself, but I did fancy it. He's a right prig, mate. You want to watch him. However. However, he is in a position to give you this for classy contributions to the program before you can get any further. Yeah, go on. Oh, fantastic. What I wondered was, I quite like a paper back copy of a book. And I wondered, why are new books released as hard covers first, and then you have to wait months and months and months to get your hands on a paperback? I think historically it's just money. I think people pay more for a hardback. So if people are really keen to get their hands on it. But that doesn't really work anymore with Kindles, because the Kindle edition of. What was that book called again? Jordan? I believe it's called how to be right in a world gone wrong by Mister James O'Brien. Released 1 November. Unless you want paperback, in which case you've got to wait. When is the paperback out? Actually, I'm not being silly now. I haven't. It's next year, isn't it? It's 2019, I think it was June, possibly. I don't know. I can't remember now. That's all right. I think that's the answer. So, historically, you just make a few more quid out of flogging the hardbacks than you do out of selling the paperbacks. But the Kindle thing has kind of messed that up, so I'll leave it on the board. Right. If only we knew. If only we knew some published authors who had an actual insight into this. Well, this is what I thought. I do think for the plug, I definitely deserve a signed copy. If you. Freebie. I thought you just ordered it. Oh, no, no. I held off, so I thought. I know. I'll ask James about that first. I can't give out free copies every day, Jordan. Already? I had a Liverpudlian on yesterday who I offered a free copy to. They're all going to. I know, but I've given you two plugs. Yeah, but now everyone's going to ring in and give me a plug and expect a free book in return. I'll see. I sing as. Is. That is it. That is the. That's the last free book of the week. Let's go to Jordan. Great work. Stay on the line to get his details. 1216 is the time. The hardback. Well, the original reason. Is it just money? I don't know. We'll find out. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Little bit of semantic controversy unfolding on the program, as you'd expect. Where is that one? There's someone complaining about the way I pronounce scallops. Now, that is quite an interesting complaint. Allow me to take a moment to tell you why Harry also tweeted to say, it's a good job you couldn't answer that question from Liverpool, James, or you'd have had to give yourself a ray Liotta. I suppose I would have done. Not because it's about published authors. There's millions of published authors. But the question was specifically relevant to the book that I actually wrote. That would actually have been a rayiotta moment if I'd known the answer. Qualifications. I wrote that book. Blew it. That was probably the only chance in my entire life of getting a Rayliotta on my own programme. Rats. Now, who's that? Tracy's complaining about the way I pronounce scallops. Now, I take your complaint, Tracy, as I do all complaints, I take it to heart and very, very seriously. But in Kidderminster, oddly, a scallop is made of potatoes. In fact, I believe I just said the word potatoes in a slight kidderminster twang. I don't. Do you get this? Outside the midlands, it's like a thin. It's one slice of potato, a big slice of potato, thin slice of potato, and then it's chipped, it's chucked in the. In the deep fat fryer. So it's like a cake. A potato cake, a thin potato cake, and I would call that a scallop. Can I have scallop? Can I have cod and chips in a scallop, please? And mushy peas. And I would call a scallop the crustacean, the shellfish, that I find quite delicious. If you are interested in new recipes, fry it up with a bit of streaky bacon, fry it up with a bit of streaky bacon and deglaze the pan with marsala or a little bit of sherry, something sweet, and then pour it over the. Mmm. I'm feeling hungry now, so I digress slightly. That's why I say scallop for the shellfish, because for me, a scallop is a giant, cheap. Leslie's in Colchester. Sorry to keep you, Leslie. Question or answer? Excellent answer, James. Carry on. Leslie, have you ever had a scallop? No, I'd hate them. Hate to hate anything like that. Anything that's. Yeah, no, no, the potato one. The potato one. Oh, potato, yeah, potato, scallop. Yeah. All right, carry on. Nothing fishy. Nothing fishy. It's an answer. To what? The burpee. Oh, yes. What is a burpee? Well, you know what a burpee is. Yes, I do. But why is it called a burpee? It's called a burpee because the man who invented it, or not. He did, yes. Is a guy called Royal Burpee. He was an american physiologist, and basically the reason that he was. He tested it. He did it, actually, as a fitness test. It started off as a fitness test because you're lying on the floor, so your feet got pumped, your heart's got to pump the blood down to your feet, and all of a sudden, you jump up in the air, put your hands. Hands above your head. Yeah. So your heart's got to pump the blood from your feet all the way up to your head. That really works. Your heart. And he really just tested how many burpees somebody could do as a fitness test. Qualifications. I used to be a personal trainer and his first name was Royal. Royal. I was in the royal family. Royal Burpee, his name. He was an american physiologist. It was years and years ago. Royal Burpee. Yeah. Royal. That's not a name. That's like a snack. Royal Burpee. Yeah, but that was. It was his name. Physiologist. And why did you stop being a personal trainer? Because. Oh, no, man, this will be a whole new star. Broke my neck. No, yeah, I'm all right. I'm fine. God, for that. Yeah, I broke my neck. So it was. I was out of action for about two years. So you're back in a saddle now, so to speak. You're back at. Back on form now? I'm back on form, yeah. Yeah. Only tiny, minimal damage. Walking, talking. Yeah. Miracle. I am, but, yeah. No, no. That's why great work. How did you break your neck, if you don't mind me asking? Oh, you poor thing. Yeah, it's not pleasant. I wouldn't advise it, no. There you go. It was all. You always learn something on this program. Well, two things you've taught us. Number one, that a man once lived called Royal Burpee, and he came up with the physical test known as a burpee. Don't look at me skeptically. Leslie wouldn't ring me and tell fit. And number two, breaking your necks. No fun. No fun. And it. Yeah, it's no fun. Round of applause. But life after, it's wonderful. Good. There we go. Lovely call. Thank you, Leslie. Sean's in Torquay. Sean, question or answer? Hi, James. Question. Yes. Why does the sun fade? Things, furniture, books? That is a brilliant question. That is a brilliant question. Well, thank you. Well, I should warn you, when I call questions stupid, they often turn out to be brilliant. Yeah. So it could all backfire on us both horribly. There's a shop, seeing as I've been to kiddie mister in my mind already, during the program today, there's a shop in kiddie that closed down, and I don't know whether they couldn't track down the owners or something like that. And it had a full window and it was near the old swimming baths, and it was incredible. It must have been shut for 20 years, but it still had the display in the window and there's packets of cereal in the window that you could barely make out what they'd been. They were almost completely bleached. It's incredible. I mean, it just. It baffles me as to why light coming from the sky would bleach anything at all. It's a lovely question. You're welcome. With that caveat that it might turn out to be really stupid. We shall soon find out. Sure. Thank you. Why does the sun bleach things? Why do books come out in hardback and then paperback? Why do bread. Why does bread go stiff while biscuits go limp as they go stale? We've done the burpees. And why is it stand on the right on an escalator, but walk on the left in a corridor on public transport, particularly in London, someone's just told me that in Tokyo and Osaka, they do it differently. So in Tokyo, it's stand on the right and walk on the right. No, the other way around. Stand on the right and walk on the left. But if you get on a bullet train to Osaka and you get off it, then you stand on the right and walk on the right. Oh, dear, dear. You learn something new every day. And where the scallop rose go. Karen is in the black isle. Karen, question or answer? Hi. It's an answer. Please carry on. It's about the bread and the biscuits. Yes. Right. If you look at the composition of both of the doughs, they are completely different. Yes. Now, a bread dough contains a lot of water, and when it bakes in the oven, the starch takes up a lot of the water while it bakes. Now, you can see that when you're making a roux, when you make a sauce. Yes. It's the same. It's the same process just in a bread. You don't see it because it's in the oven. Yeah. And so a roux is when is when you, you add a liquid to flour and it turns into a thick paste. So the flour is changing chemically as it absorbs the water. The start, in other words. But that change isn't permanent. No. Okay. So as soon as the bread has baked and it is cooled down, the whole process very, very, very slowly reverses. The water starts emerging from the starch. Exactly. That's it. So it gives off water to the surrounding air. And so that's why your bread goes stale unless it is pumped full with chemicals to keep it soft. Now, biscuits generally are a mix of a lot of fats, a lot of sugar and some flour as well. Hardly any water, not very much water in them. And sugar is hygroscopic. That means it attracts water, of course. So it's osmosis. Yes, exactly. So that's why your biscuits go a bit limp if you don't put them in it in or something. I think that counts as a definitive answer. You just reminded me of one thing, though. Ivan doesn't know about the word osmosis. Ivan has been my studio producer for a few months now. I've never explained to him that there's a special sound effect that we should play. Whenever I say the word osmosis on the program. I'm gonna have to explain it to him in the commercial break. What are your qualifications, Karen? I'm a baker. For fun or for. No, no. Is it. What's your speciality? Bread, to be honest. Is it. Oh, do you ever do sourdough, where you make your own? Oh, yeah, at home all the time. Round of applause for Karen. Thank you. I mean, I was just toying with the idea of a Rayleigh otter, but you can't get a Rayleigh otter for being a baker. There's too many of you. It's 28 after twelve. Great stuff. Thank you. Matt's in Leeds. Matt, question or answer? It's a question, actually. I know very, very little about octopuses other than they have three hearts. Oh, yeah, and eight legs as well, mate. Surely you know that bit. Actually, no, I didn't. That's news to me. Silly sausage. Get on with it. So if an octopus has a heart attack, is it all three hearts that are inclusively affected, or is it one isolated incident within one heart that the other two then kick into? You may be guilty of anthropomorphism here. You may be presuming that despite having three hearts, the nervous system of an octopus somehow stands comparison with the nervous system of a mammal or a human. Again, you've already moved me into the realm of the confused, so please. Well, no, I will find out for you. I mean, because we don't even know that octopi can have heart attacks, do we? Well, they must be able. Surely every animal can sustain some sort of heart attack or heart malfunction that the other two then kick in to assist it with. Sounding quite strident. Now, Matt, having gone from a position of quite innocent confusion, you know, sounding like you'd back yourself in a fight on this one. No, I do love a fight. What happens when an octopus has a heart attack, given that they have three hearts? And that's working on the proviso, because Matt's feeling quite feisty that octopuses are definitely capable of having heart attacks. I like these questions. Let's start getting some of them answered. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. There's a chance that that London underground left and right question was incredibly stupid and I didn't spot it. But then I will bring in Osaka and Tokyo just to mix it up again. Steve's in Leicester. Steve, question or answer? Answer for you, James. Carry on, Steve. Right. It's. Why does sunlight flood everything? Oh, yes. Okay. It's not the light you see that's doing the damage. If you can imagine light as a cake, a layer cake. Yeah. You have the visible light that you see that's in the middle, that's surrounded on one side by ultraviolet energy, side by infrared energy, and it goes up. It's the violet end of the light that's hitting us that reacts with the dyes and the inks that causes the. Seriously? Yeah. Qualifications? I'm a thermography engineer. So I look at the other end of the light spectrum to the ultraviolet. What's a thermography engineer? Okay. You've seen on these police shows where you've got a thermal image camera under a helicopter and they're finding criminals because how hot they are, like in a bush or something like that. That's it. I'll carry a hand out one of them and look at electrical components to see if they're going to fail and stuff like that. Oh, wow. Cool. How many thermography engineers are there in the world? Um, more than one. Yeah. Say fucking. There's thousands of us. Oh, is. Oh, well. So you're not going to get a Rayleigh otter, but you are going to get a round of applause. What a lovely answer. So the ultraviolet element of the light has chemically. What do we know what it does? What is the reaction? I can't. I mean, I could try and guess something. It's. I don't know the full chemical reaction, but it's how the dyes and the pigments react to ultraviolet light. Yeah, that'll do nicely. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Steve. Thank you. No, thank you. I think you're the first thermography engineer that I've spoken to knowingly on the program. And now, speaking of the program, I have instructed young Ivan, my studio engineer, about the importance of that word. Now, if you don't know if you listened to miss Shar in the early days, whenever I got a science question that I didn't know the answer to, I would often say, is it osmosis? But the hallelujah chorus wouldn't kick in unless someone actually used the word correctly. So, for example, the passage from an area of high concentration to low concentration through a semi permeable membrane is known as osmosis. And that is the noise that should happen whenever the word is correctly used. I'm not sure I did correctly use it earlier, so it may be that I've done Ivan a disservice by accusing him of being a bit slow on the uptake. But it's in place now, so there's no excuses in the future. I've got a couple of phone lines free. Actually, speaking of the future, one of them could be yours. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. These all need answers. Where do all the scallop rows go? Apparently my expert fishmonger has tweeted, although I've missed the tweet in the cavalcade of communications coming into the studio, but not a satisfactory answer. Sorry, Rex. Standing on the left. Standing on the right. Walking on the left. Think about it. Bread. We did. Why do buts come out in hardcover? And we've done the bleach question as well. And what happens when an Octopus has a heart attack, given that they've got three hearts? Dan's in thorough. Dan, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Dan. Right. The water on the surface of the earth. How, over the millions and millions of years, has gravity not drawn that underneath the surface of the earth, away from the reach of animals and people and things like that? How has the water remained on the surface? Heat, isn't it? Pardon? It would be. Heat would be involved. Because I understand the question. You sort of mean why isn't there a sort of ball of really soggy soil in the middle of the earth and there's no water left on the top? Not even. How is it not just seeped even like half a mile beneath the surface? Why would it? I mean, because of gravity. It wouldn't be gravity, though. Well, gravity. Why haven't humans. Why are you choosing water? Why haven't. Why? Because gravity is not that strong. If you pour water over the top of a bucket of sand. Yeah, it seeps to the bottom, doesn't it? So why hasn't water gone just beneath the surface? It has. And then. And then it's reached the point. No, no, no, keep pour, keep pouring the water into your bucket of sand and there will come a point where the sand can't absorb any more water and the water level rises in your bucket. Yeah, but that's. You're talking about. I'm using your analogy. It's your bucket, mate. It's not my bucket. You brought your bucket here. You used it to draw a picture of the question you were asking. And I've answered it with reference to your own bucket. Yeah. The bucket I'm talking about is the size of the entire planet. Yeah. So then I'm talking about all the water on the entire planet. I don't understand. What's so complicated about this? Nothing. It's really simple. I've just. I think I've just explained. I've just explained it to you. You said the word heat once. Well, I did think initially that the way water comes upwards as opposed to downwards is when it's in steam form, when it's. When it's become hot. And as you know, as you head into the center of the earth, you will encounter more and more heat. But I don't think. I think that might have been a red herring. I think the answer is pretty simple and I only saw it when you used your bucket. Example is that water is absorbed some sort of like, damp proof membrane beneath the surface of the earth that the water hits. And then you can say damp proof membrane, or you could just say stone. So you think that the earth has a stone membrane? Well, I don't think it has a stone membrane. I just think wherever there is a large body of water, it has reached saturation point and beneath the seabed. I don't know why we're arguing. I'll put your question on the board if you're not happy with my answer, and then you can hear someone else say the same thing in a different voice and I'll give them the round of applause if you want. It's not a question of confidence. Say again? You said a rude word earlier. No, it was prigmate. Pr I g. Oh, I didn't hear that. No, see, John's in surbiton. John, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, John. I was wondering why all the relatives that we have either have a male or female designation. Niece, nephew, aunt, uncle, brother, sister, except for cousin. Oh, I like that. And I just wondered why there's no sort of male or female. Is it true in other languages? Does French for cousin have an e on the end of it if it's a female? I don't know what. Bulgarian and Russian have different words for male and female cousin, but we don't. And it looks like a french word. That's why I asked. I'll try and find out for you. It's not. I mean, it may be unique to english or french or european languages. I like that one. Why do you want to know it? Just those things that just came to me the other day, I was thinking about. Because I just had a new granddaughter. Congratulations. Thank you. Wondered why cousins didn't have a male or female side to them. Yeah, I'm wondering as well now. Hopefully, we'll get an answer. Thank you, John. Is that your first granddaughter? Is that your first grandchild? No, fourth. Oh, I say, carry on, then. Just business as usual. 1242 is the time. Colin is in Richmond. Question or answer, Colin? Oh, hello, James. It's an answer, James. Carry on, Colin, it's about your question about why we're asked to walk on the left in London underground and stand on the right on escalators. Yes. And effectively, we're asking people to do the same thing. Yes, I really. When you're walking down a corridor, the obstacle that's going to hit you is people on the right coming towards you. When you're on an escalator, the obstacle that will hit you will be people standing on the right as you walk up the escalator. Always walk on the left and you can't go wrong. Where are you? Oh, my God. Well, you're in it. You're on here. There is no escalator at Richmond station. Well, I'm not. Well, I left my mobile on the blooming bench, didn't I? Where are you now? I'm just coming up to the top of Kings Cross. Oh, I've got you down as Richmond, that's all. That just must be where you rang from last time. I thought I'd just done a bit of detective work there, like Bellingcat, tracking down that there is no escalator at Richmond station. You, sir, are the murderer. Yes. Qualifications? Basically, asking people to do exactly the same thing, avoid the obstacle on the right. And so you could say it was common sense, but it was nice to hear an answer from someone with a. With an air of plausibility and authority. What are your qualifications, Colin? Well, I actually worked for London underground as head of passenger traffic logistics. Oh, shut up. I did, yeah. 1979 through to 84. Head of passenger traffic logistics. Yeah. Head office, St James's park. Absolutely. And I've got a first class travel pass for the rest of my life as a result of that, James. And there would only be one at that period. There could only be one head. It means, like Highlander, there can be only one head of logistics for transport. Passenger. Passenger traffic logistics, indeed. Yeah. Absolutely. All right, kids. This is why we have the rayleighota. I'm Ray Liotta. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come first class travel. I mean, on national rail, not just on local road. Yeah, yeah. Because back in the day, we were all under the same little part of the nur. So if you work for the railways, you got. Yeah, you've got perks across the whole network, which I still have, which is lovely. And, well, you've got a radiota now, man, that knocks your first class life season ticket into a cocked hat. Doesn't it add, you know, three copies of your book, James, get lost. 1245. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Yeah, I am tight with the Rayleigh otters, but I think they definitely deserve. You're not going to get one for being a baker. I'm not having any stewards inquiries on this. It's entirely in my gift. You need to think of me like a roman emperor when it comes to Ray Liottas. All right? I will give them to whoever I please. And even if my rules on a Monday don't match my rules on a Friday, I'm a roman emperor. I can marry my horse if I want to. It's 1249. Professor Hal is here. Question or answer? Professor Hal? Oh, a bit of foreplay. First banter? What banter? Yeah, go on. I'm outside the russian consulate waiting to get my visa, because I'm off to Russia in a couple of weeks. Are you going to be all right? Yes, I'm going. I want it clear that I'm going to look at St Castle's Cathedral and that's the only reason I'm going from the science. If you turn out. If you turn out to be a secret agent, I will eat my hat. I really will. It would be very funny. When are you off? You do start. You're doing one of your science performances every year. This time of year, I go off. I can clearly remember being knee deep in snow, phoning you once. You rang from Russia last time. Yes, well, hopefully we'll do so again. Be careful, won't you, Hal? For those people wondering why Professor Hal has the status, if you like to just sort of suggest that we're going to indulge in a little bit of pre answer banter, it's because he is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton and therefore something of a patron saint. So I know when I say, question or answer that he has an answer. What is it? It's funny. You should mention roman emperors, because I was about to say that I did a calculation once that everyone has at least one molecule of water in them from Caesar's dying breath because of the water cycle. The question has said, why didn't all the water seep away? And if you've got a sort of sink full of water, you can see it's not going to seep away. So what he's alluding to is, if the earth is porous, then why doesn't it all seep away? But it doesn't have time to. There's a water cycle, and you were quite right that even if it did, as you go down, it gets hotter, it would evaporate and join the water cycle. So we drink water, we wee it out, the water evaporates, goes to the clouds, rains back down, comes back down, gets purified, we drink it again. It goes in a big cycle, so there's no time, really, for it to filter away. It's like a bouncy castle where the air leaks, but it's being replenished all the time. And of course it is. And also the density of the rock beneath the water is greater than the density of the water, isn't it? So there's a. Well, that would be relevant as well. There's a million reasons it was actually. I mean, I don't want to be rude, because. Oddly tense, that exchange. But it's an odd question. No, but it yields a lot of science in the art. Yes, it does. So, yeah, we're always glad to add to the pool of knowledge. Pool of knowledge. Round of applause for Professor Hal. Good work. When are you off to Russia? It's a weekend of the 12th and the 13th and the 14th, so enjoy. Lovely. You're not taking Wayne with you as a little helper? Actually, he did ask me this last time one day. All right, carry on. I still need an answer to the octopus's heart question and we've only got six minutes left before Sheila Fogarty takes over. And if she knows the answer to the octopus's heart question, then I am a russian spy. Alan is in Beckenham, in Kent. Alan, question or answer? An answer? Carry on, hopefully. Oh, good man. Unless you've answered it already. I don't know. Let's find out. Is the scallop row. I mean, to be honest, if we'd answered it already and Beth still put you through, there'd be all sorts of fireworks going off in this studio at the moment. Where does all the row go? Where does all the rogue have you been into a chinese restaurant and had seaweed. I knew that jump linking you. Yes, I have. Alan, you have dried seaweed. On top of it, you've noticed this flaky orange powder? Yeah, it's delicious dried scallop roe. And it is so umami. Mm hmm. Yes. It tastes a bit salty. I love it. I love things to it. So in other words, use it. Yeah. Dry and flake on top of there. So seasoning, effectively, a particularly delicious seasoning. Yes, I suppose. Qualifications? 40 years in the seafood business. At what end? Sorry? What end? Were you on a boat or were you in a shop? Oh, just importing, selling, packing. Do you know wrecks? Uh, no. In Grimsby. In Billingsgate. Okay. In all the fish ports all around the country. So what's your take on the scallop walls? Yeah, it's pretty gruesome over in France because that's where we go to get our scallops from, to eat. You can buy five kilos for €20, and they're all hand dredged. The UK comes over with their great boats and scrapes the bottom of the ocean, ruins it for everyone, and picks up all the scallops because they're allowed to fish all year round. It is a sign of the European Union not necessarily getting things perfectly right from the french point of view. I suppose if you're a british scallop fisherman, the idea that you're filling your boots while wrecking the. Well, I mean, as the fishermen don't want to create wars here, but they haven't done themselves any good in the past. You're not allowed to say that, Alan, you live 40 years in the seafood business. You don't know as much about the seafood industry as Nadine Dorries and Nigel Farage. All right? It started when they used their trawlers to supply the oil rigs. Did it? And they didn't need fish anymore. Well, I never knew that. What did they do with their quotas? Sold them to Spain, and then spent 30 years claiming that the british fishing fleet had somehow been undermined by Brussels. Sure, yeah. I mean, it's a bit late, lads. It's a bit late. We voted out two and a half years ago. Where were you in the run up to the referendum when they were telling their lies about fish? Well, I mean, you sound like you're busy. Ugly army, aren't they, when they get started, the fishermen. Well, yeah, but still, I mean, you knew. You knew the business inside. Have you had your round of applause? He had his round of applause. Anything else? I mean, was I drinking. I've ever seen scallop row in little pots. So I was about to drink. You're good, man. I was literally about to say, did I dream it? I thought I saw it in the Covent garden fishmonger in the freezer next to the. There wouldn't be a market. It's a chefy market and that's about it. I think you'll find Nigella Lawson like scallop rose on toast. Herring rose? No, it's Scarlet Ro. She likes them on toast because in her recipe with. I think she's the one that does it with streaky bacon. And then you declares the pan with marsala. You should try that. You'd like it. Yeah. I think she says she saves the roe and then has them on toast on their own later. And that's Nigella Lawson, mate. Seriously, might have been herring milt, which is the. Why are you arguing with me? I've read the recipe and you haven't. Oh, well, you may have a poor, poor understanding of fish and milts and herring row. The male herring. Yes. And about the only thing you can do with it is spread it on toast. I, like. Send it across to Finland and feed the Finns the mink. The mink? The mink. The finnish mink for the mink farms. They like it. You should write a book, Alan. Uh, yeah, I probably will one day. I look forward to it. If you need any advice, just let me know. It's 1256 that he had his roundabout, but what lovely queen you. His stuff couldn't. I love that sort of quiet certainty. I really know what I'm talking about, James, and I'm so laid back, I've practically fallen over. David is in Bradford. Question or answer, David? Answer. Is it the octopuses hearts? No, it's about the word cousin. We've got. If you. If anyone knows the answer to the octopus hearts question, they will get on the program before 1259. Why does cousin not have a gender attached to it in the way that almost every other human relationship does? Because originally it meant relative, and Shakespeare uses it in that way. Cousin. And so it wasn't specific gender. Gender specific because of that. So it meant any. Any relative. And. But the. In English, it didn't have a specific word for what we now have as cousin, so we borrowed the french word just meaning relative. Meaning it was originally meant relative. Yes, that's. That's why it's not qualification. A love of English all my life. Oh, that'll do, David. Round of applause for David. Very nicely done. And that's coz. Coz is in Shakespeare as well, isn't it? Coz you know, it's not just cousins. Yes, that's right. He does use it quite a lot. I like it. Good work. 1258 octopuses heart quick zero. 345-606-0973 Julian's in Chittister. Question or answer, Julian? Answer. Carry on. It's the hardback and paperback release question. Oh, I forgot about that one. Go on. It is about profit. The hardbacks seen as more of a luxury item so publishers like myself can charge more for them and get more profit. And since the rise of Kindle, there's been a move in the publishing industry to put more money into the production of books with nice effects on the COVID and that sort of thing to make it a really desirable object. I've got a lovely picture of me on the front of my book. Is that the sort of thing you're talking about? Yes. That's what made me pre order your books. Good man. Good man. And of course the quotes on the back from Emily Maitlis, Susanna Reed, Robert Webb, Jamie Oliver, Krishna guru Marty and what was the other one? I've forgotten now. And the sun, of course, that famous sun quote. So, yes, you're right, you do want to. It's a bit like vinyl, isn't it? It's a bit like comeback of vinyl. Now, my oldest loves vinyl because it's got a. It's got a sensory element to it that you don't get with a Kindle or equally you don't get with Spotify. And you work in publishing. I do, yes. Three years. Round of applause for you, Gillian. And it's just the octopuses. I've always got the echo in the back of my mind. The octopuses garden in yellow submarine. We've not got an octopus. So that it. We've done really well today, everybody. Great work. But we don't know about the octopus. That's it from me for another day. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to Sheila Fogarty. We do know they can't. Oh, go on with it. What do you mean they can't? They can't survive if one goes. What's the point of having three then? Because they do different things in the body when it's working well and when it doesn't work well. That's it. Qualification. I googled it. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten. Only on LBC.