How do pathologists manage to find dental records?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien. Mister how we've missed you. How welcome you are in these turbulent times of turmoil. If you don't know what this is, then don't worry. It's very, very different from what goes on the rest of the time on this programme. The only thing that it has in common with the rest of the program is that the phones go nuts. There was a time back in the day when this was the only hour of the week where I could guarantee every single phone line being full for the entire duration. But that now applies to pretty much every hour that we do by which I should, or because of which I should apologise to everybody who was waiting to contribute to the Brexit conversation that we've had for the last 2 hours. I have a suspicion that that won't be the last time we talk about it. So keep your powder dry and turn your attention now to our weekly journey into the unknown. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a mystery that needs solving. And by that I mean, you know, kind of like a who, a why, a where, a what, a when, a wither, maybe even a wherefore, possibly the occasional whence. Why do we do that? James? What's that about when. When that happens? Why does that happen? What's the origin of this? Yada bing, yadda boom. You get it? Anything at all? There are only really sort of two prerequisites. One is that it must be a question that has an answer. You must believe that there is an answer out there. You just haven't been able to work out or find out what it is yet. So not sort of eternal questions of existential mystery. Is there a God or something like that? It has to have an answer. Zero 345-606-0973 and it has to be definitive. By which I mean you have to remind me or tell me how you know that thing that you know that you've just told the rest of us. Don't get overburdened by the requirements, though, for qualifications, you don't have to have a PhD or indeed be like one of the most regular mystery I contributors, the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. You may just have seen it on David Attenborough last night or seen it on Mythbusters last year. All I need to know is how you know that thing. You know, if you got a question, don't be boring. Kind of hard to police that because people very rarely realise that they're boring. Zero 345-606-0973 is a number to call if you don't think you're boring. But we may politely, Jacob and Beth in charge today, they may politely invite you to move along because nobody else is going to be interested in the answer to the question that you ask. Okay. And repetition, which is kind of our job. Although I have got Jones the engineer back for two weeks only on secondment from his new career as a professional poker player. And he is, or was he the only person until he left last year to have been here since the very birth of mystery act. Can you remember where it started, when or why? Actually, yeah, it was, wasn't it? Probably the best part of a decade, at least. And I think it was partly because of elections. It gave us something to do on election days and then it was so popular that we did it the next week because you can't talk about elections on election day. My only stumble with the broadcasting authorities involved me driving a horse and cart right through the middle of that regulation and rule. But it meant that something like this was a great way. And it turned out to be so popular that we've never stopped. So seven minutes after twelve, every time I say the number, it means I've got a phone line free. But the turnover at the top of mystery hour is pretty violent. So just bear with. Let's start in Detroit. Detroit, where Roland is. Roland, question or answer? And welcome. Thank you. Thank you. It's a question. Yes. My question is, sometimes when I'm, well, all the time when I'm listening to music on my headphones, if I yawn, it sounds like the BPM is increasing. And I spoke to a music producer friend of mine. He says when he wakes up in the morning and he working. He's working on music, it sounds like the BPM is faster and it changes as it gets throughout the day. And I want to know why. So I can't. I can't. We can only deal with your question because I don't, I don't quite get the other bit. He, you yawn and the music seems to get faster, not just ensure it's not getting higher and you're mistaking it for getting faster. Sounds like. Because I work in dance music, so I'm listening to house music. It's a regular, regular BPM for the. And it sounds like it gets quicker when you yawn. I'm always slightly wary of things that might only apply to you, but that's why you brought your mate into it because it might involve a slightly damaging diagnosis that I'm not comfortable sharing over public radio. Yeah, that's. I saw the same thing. But then your mate says that he thinks his music gets faster during the course of the day. Or slower. No, no, no. When he wakes up in the morning, he reckons that it. The BPM is different. Okay. Are you. I mean, do you take a lot of drugs? Do you take a lot of drugs, you and your friend? It doesn't change, obviously. BPM doesn't change. No, but it sounds like it does. Sounds like it's changed. And you're not. You're not under the influence of any mind bending substances? Always should be ridiculous. Vicks inhalers. All right. I mean, is there a relationship between BPM and yawning and or time of day then it's quite an odd question, but I like it, Roland. Thank you. Will I know any of your tunes? Will I be familiar with any of your tunes? I've moved to Detroit because I got my first one signed to a record label last year, so they've asked me to come and do three more. Great, man, great work. Good luck. Roland London. Roland London. There you go. Look out for Roland London. Have you been up all night? Have you been in the studio all night, man? Laying down some tracks. Yeah, because what time is it in Detroit now? It's 07:00 a.m. Rock and roll. I'm so jealous. You're so cool. Ten minutes after. So let's get Roland and answer. It's the least we can do. He stayed up all night to get this question on the radio. Paul is in chess and Paul, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James, and it's from my kids, actually. Carry on, Paul. Right, I'm gonna talk to. Oh, we've had 2 hours of that cow poo and sheep poo. Now they both eat grass. My kids wanted to know why. Cow poo pet? Yeah. Pellets versus pats. I like that. Cows have. Cows have a completely different digestive system to sheep. That's the short answer. Yeah, but why little parents pellets? Well, that's more like ours, the grass. Well, I know. I don't know why I'm trying to answer this, but it's gonna have something to do with chewing the cud, Paul, isn't it? I don't know. Yeah, it must do. I'll find out why. So why do sheep do. I'm not going to use the p word again. I'm just stick with the other p words. Pellets and pats. Why do sheep? Sheep do pellets and cows do pats but they have an identical diet. It's a clever question that you've got a couple of budding little scientists there or possibly even philosophers. I like it. And you can blame paradise Wildlife park for it. Is it a wildlife park with cows and sheep in it? Wow. Well, yeah, it's got sheep in it but the cows. We were in the field the other day and they noticed the difference. Did they have any exotic wildlife in the. In Paradise Wildlife park? Because they got the couple of snow leopards. Yeah, you're good because I didn't feel that you were bigging them up enough. No one was going to go, oh, I'm going to go to Paradise Wildlife park. They've got some sheep. Well, yeah, they've got, yeah, quite a bit. Quite a few lions. Lions. Why'd you go in on the snow leopards? They've got everything. They are little red pandas. Little red pandas. Oh, they're cute. They are. Where is it? Where is paradise Wildlife park? It's in foxbone. All right. There you go. We got there in the end. I don't know, I was going to go there because of the sheep but they've got lions and little red pandas. But that's not what we're interested in. We're interested in why sheep do pellets and cows do patsy, given that they have an identical diet. And then we got Roland's BPM related issues, which somebody listening to probably will understand. Okay, thank you, Paul. Andy is in Plymouth. Andy, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Andy. Given the sort of search by forensic pathologists to find out the identity of people or victims of death that don't have facial features or fingerprints, etcetera, by which they can go. Yes. They tend to revert to dental records. Yes. How do they know whose dentist or who the dentist is of that victim? Given that, I presume that there is no national database for dental records. Why do you presume that? I cannot imagine how they can even begin to log it, basically. And the other thing is if you think about a victim who may not be native to the country and they're trying to find the identity of victim of. Perhaps it's a foreign visitor to this country or wherever. I like this question. I presume that that's why I was being a little bit gnomic. I presume there must be some sort of database. Otherwise just using Occam's razor, I can't imagine what else it would be. They can't ring around every dentist sort of working out from wherever the murder occurred on a sort of geographical ever increasing circles. But I love it because it's one of those things we've all seen and never questioned. Yeah, yeah you're on. Why Andy, you're not planning something that I should be talking you out of are you? You're not wrong? I'm not? No. Are you sure? That was quite an evil laugh. Well, thanks very much. 30 minutes after twelve. John's in Derby. John, come on. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Where do you draw the line between grave robbing and archaeology? How old does a grave have to be before you can dig it up and it count yourself as an archaeologist? So what is the difference between interfering with corpses and exploring history? Yeah, pretty much. I got the idea from seeing a thing about the Titanic where they dug up a grave that was less than 100 years old at the time. So I think that counters as archaeology. I don't know that there's going to be a hard and fast rule, John. No, maybe. I'm sure it's a british archaeology society that might have some sort of. Did they, did they dig up a grave? They dug up an actual grave for the Titanic thing you saw? Yeah, yeah. There was one where they were trying to relate. Trying to do genealogy with a child's corpse that they found and it was covered up by a piece of metal that preserves some of the organic matter and that technically counted as archaeology so. And then they compared it to. Because I don't think that digging up the grave would be archaeology, that would just be a decision was taken that it was worth doing because I think the. I think it's probably always problematical to dig up a demarked grave. An actual mark. Great. Because what archaeology is, you stumble across a body when you're digging up a field. Right? Yeah. It's not the same if it's got an actual gravestone on it. It's probably governed by some sort of. If not true. Go on. If you're digging up a saxon burial you're probably expecting to find some bodies under it there. So it's kind of. It's whether it's a. I mean a 400 year old gravestone. Could it be. Could be of archaeology? Can I ask why? Why? I mean what the hell are you. I'm worried about Andy and Plymouth asking about dental records. What the hell are you planning on doing this weekend? Nothing really. I heard this badly answered on a, on the Internet a couple of days ago and I think that answer was completely wrong. So it's just. Yeah, I'm sure there's a. No. All right, when does grave robbing become archaeology? Or indeed pretty much vice versa. I love that question, it's one of my all time favorites. 1215 is the time if you can answer any of the questions that we've got. So we've got Roland with his beats per minute on the music. Paul, who wants to. Paul? Pats and pellets. I've written down here. Paul wants to know why cows do pats and sheep do pellets, given that they have identical diets. More pertinently, his children want to know. Andy wants to know where the dental records are, which we've all seen on whodunits and murder mysteries. And John, somewhat troublingly wants to know at what point does interfering with corpses and digging up graves, at what point can you excuse it as archaeology? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC, bpms and yawning. A few of you have said you have the same experience. When Roland yawns, the music on his headphones seems to get quicker. I'd like to know why sheep and cow have identical diet. One does pats, other does pellets. We need to consult the dental records to identify this cadaver, this corpse, this dead body. Why? Where are the dental records? And speaking of corpses and cadavers, what's the difference between archaeology and grave robbing? Dave is in Horn church. Dave, question or answer? James, this is really spooky. I've got the answer to all three of them. You can only do what I'm tempted. What did you clear with Beth? Who did you speak to? Beth or Jacob? It's about. It's about the hearing. Yeah, do that one then. Do that one. Okay, mate. Well, it's the change of air pressure in the eustachian tubes that run from your ear drums through to the back of your throat. Yeah. That was why I wondered whether the tone had got higher rather than faster. Why would a change of air pressure make it sound faster? Well, it sort of bends the note, it distorts it. Qualifications. I've had some problem with my hearing myself. So the yawn would be air pressure and when you're on a plane and it's pressurized and you pinch your nose and you alter the air pressure in your ear. No, I get that. I don't understand why it would seem to be faster. I could see why it would seem to be different, but not necessarily faster, but I really want to give you a round of applause. It's just distorted. It isn't necessarily faster, it's distorted. And the impression Roland gets is that it's speeded up. But in fact his brain could be processing the information that his ears are delivering and telling him that it's getting faster, but actually he's just getting different. Yeah. I'm going to give you a round of applause. Thank you, mate. No, you're welcome. What were the other ones you knew the answer to, just out of interest? Right, well, I'm a funeral director and we've got an exhumation company as well. We've gone completely down the wrong hole on this one, if you pardon the pun. You've actually got an exhumation company. That would have been a Ray Liotta Dave. So, yeah, you know, I can got a good idea of. No, you can't do it now, mate. But that would have been. That would have been an actual rough. Full on Ray Liotta. That's the thing, though. You see you so eager for your round of applause, you rang in on the ear question if you. Oh, no, I should never have asked you now because that. Oh, rats. Well, we're just going to hope someone else listening has a exhumation company. We need Dave's biggest rivals. Does Jones the engineer know what a Rayleota is? Are you sure? Because he hasn't been here for a while. Can we. All right. He's getting older. Okay, thank you. Stop it. Stop. 23 minutes after twelve, two phone lines free. Grab one quickly if you can answer any of the questions that we've had. Gonna cross out the ear question, but only with one line because there may be a more detailed explanation available. And I've also got room for a couple more questions on the board. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Martin is in Eastbourne. Martin, question or answer? I've got a question, mate. Yeah. When you delete a file or information off your electric computer, so you send it to the bin and then you empty the bin, where does that information go from then on? Every question today seems to be the precursor to a crime. I don't know. What are you trying to cover? What are you worried about, Martin? Oh, no, no, I'm not worried about nothing. Oh, no, no, of course you're not. I just want to know how you can be sure that you can be sure that the stuff you've deleted off your computer will never see the light of day again. You're not worried about anything at all, mate, are you? No, but I used to work in our photo lab and quite often customers would bring their sd cards in and say, I've completely lost all my images. Is there any way of getting them back? And we had a. We had a way of getting all of those images back. It's something to do with magnetism or the way that the information is recorded and it gets written over. So when it's deleted, it's not actually deleted, but I don't remember the details. Someone listening will and I'll get you the answer. Okay, mate. All right? Yeah, thanks very much. No. Cheers, mate. 1224 Yasa is in Manchester. Question or answer? Yasa. It's an answer. James, let's go. I don't have an exhumation company, but I am a dentist who's had to identify one of. One of my patients. Oh, boy. Right, so you can't. If you find an unidentified body, I don't think you can identify them from their dental record. You can confirm an identity that you suspect from the dental records. So that. So sometimes, perhaps, the writers of fiction have got a little bit carried away. So you would need to say if somebody found the body and they thought it was me, they'd find out who my dentist was and then. So there's no national database or anything like that? There's a national database of the math dentist that you may have gone to. If you. If your dentist is an NHS dentist, you go to NHS dental services. So in my case, what happened was they knew who the person was, but it was difficult to identify visually, so I had to. I mean, by the dental records, you look at what teeth are present, what teeth are missing, which teeth have got what kind of fillings in. So it creates kind of like a unique fingerprint. It was. It was horrible, it was gruesome. And I don't think I'd. I mean, I would do it again, obviously, because it's a public service, but it's. So you get. Do you have to spend time with the. With the body? Well, imagine if you've been to the dentist one day. You have the dentist, both hands in their mouth with a mirror. I have to do that while clearing away maggots, mates. Oh, shut the front door. I go, blimey, I could. I couldn't get the smell out of my nose. All right, all right, all right. I feel for you, I really do. But you're making everyone else feel a bit giddy now. So there's no. So there's no such thing as dental records, then, as it. I mean, or rather there are. But you need to be. You need to make your comparison. From what? Do you have a photograph? What are in your records? Well, no, I have, I have. Right, so James O'Brien, he's got this many teeth. Each tooth is identified as present or missing, whether it's got a filling in it or not. If it has a filling in it, whether it's. So you've got a map of my. You've got a map of my mouth in your files? Exactly right. And then you need to bring the map with you to the. To the. To the. To the maggots. Well, what I had to do was I had to, because I think if I. If I'd opened my mouth to speak, I would have vomited. Yeah, all right. So I had a colleague read out the map and I would just nod or shake my head just to confirm. Which is what. It's the same as when you're at the dentist and he's going, you know, D 24, F 19. Yeah. Are you all right? Now, how long ago was this? Oh, no, this, this was. This was early on. It was about 10, 10, 15 years ago. And was it a crime? I mean, was it a famous case? Unfortunately, it was a gentleman took his own life. Oh, no. And then didn't get found for ages. I tell you what, mister, it's gone off on a bit a sad. Oh, I'm sorry about that. This is, yeah, crime. We haven't even done the archaeology grave robbing question yet. I was not. I mean, the bottom line, though, when someone rings in to ask a question, how do dentists use dental records to identify corpses? And you ring in and say, I am a dentist and I have used dental records to identify a corpse, you know, what's going to happen to confirm the identity of a corpse? I think I'm going to get a Ray Liotta. I think you're right. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Oh, man. No, no further comment on that call. Nice one. Yes, Sir Niall is in Hackney now. Question or answer? It's a question, actually, James. Carry on. Okay. When you see car adverts on television for like the new Honda and all the rest of it, when they're driving around over here with the looking knife, they've always got a funny registration plate for the registration plate will say like, fb zero zero six or something like that. I'm wondering where it comes from. How do they come up with that registration plate number? I talk about from the sublime to the ridiculous. I don't really understand what you're asking, but I'm even more baffled about why you're asking it. Because whenever you see the registration plate is on the car and if it's like a nod to whatever brand of car it is, that's just the people making the commercial have put it on the car, but it's never. It's never referenced. So if it's a BMW, the registration plate doesn't say BMW, it says like, fb zero one or something like that. It always has something quite unique about it. But all registration plates are unique. That's the point. They are. But these, if you see the adverts, they've never got a standard seven digit registration plate. I don't want to sound unkind, but. What when you see the car adverts, next time you see a car. All right. Well, does this keep you awake at night, Niall? It has, yeah. Well, I don't want to be. I want to end your pain, I really do, but I'm a little bit baffled. One thing I would say, though, that rule I've got about not having any questions on the show about cars, that's there for a reason. If you know what Niall is talking about, then give me a ring and put him out of his misery. If you were eating your lunch when Yasa came on with his answer to a question about dental records, then on his and my behalf, I'm sorry, you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Niall's question's actually quite good. After I mocked him, the question about the car registration place. As you will discover when you find out the answer, we still need to know when grave Robin can be passed off as archaeology. Is there a date on it? Is there a time limit? Why do cows do pats and sheep do pellets? Someone must know that. Come on. Given that they have an identical diet, Paul's kids want to know why their dental records question. Andy, you were sorted right out by Yasir. I suspect you're over the moon with that. And I think that's it. Is it? Is there anything else? Oh, and they're deleting the computers. Old Martin, terrified that the contents of his hard disk might end up in the hands of his partner. I made that up. I'm just speculating on what his motivation might be. Graham is in East Grinstead. Graeme, question or answer? Carry on, Graham. Bit worried about the phone line. Oh, okay. I'll see if I can move. I'm going to have to sort that phone line out. We'll get back to you imminently. Dan's in. Gold is green. Dan, question or answer? Hi, Dave. It's a question. Carry on. I'm wondering about the dice. How come the dice I've got are not numbers? Because you can count dots, but you might not know numbers if you were illiterate. Good one. You're a genius. And of course, it works in every language in the world, so you can use your same dice whether you're in China or Chelmsford. Good one. Yeah, nice. Thanks, mate. It's been a while since I got a round of applause back to Graham, who's about to answer the question about deleting hard disks. Where does it go when you delete the data? Graeme over to you. Okay, so on a computer system, when it actually goes to write a file or create a file, what it will do is it will look or access the index file. There's an index file which contains all the information about where your file is physically located on the hard disk drive or your memory card. Yeah. And what happens is, when the computer writes information to the disk, it won't have a. It might not have a contiguous space to write the file, so it won't all go in one space, so it might be placed in different physical locations all over the disk. And this index file keeps that information about where the file parts are. So when you delete a file, what the computer does is it just deletes the entry in the index file. So the computer no longer knows where the physical location of the parts of your file are on the disk. So unless. And that means that the space then becomes available for you to create other files, even though the old. Even though the old file is still there, the old file, the information for that file is still there physically on the disk until such time as it's overwritten by a new file. So the computer then recognizes that space because the index file hasn't got. So a deleted file could still be retrievable, but also it's not indefinitely retrievable. There are circumstances in which it could become irretrievable as well. And I think now with the forensic side of things, they can dig down onto the disk anyway. So unless you completely format the disk and degauss it, which is like passing it through a massive magnetic field. Yeah. Then it's. It could still be available even after you've overwritten it. Yeah. Jones, be careful, mate. Round of apPlausE oh, hang on. Qualifications? About 30 years in it. Sweet. Nicely played, Graham. It's 1239. And cross that one off. Cross that one off. John's in Burnley. Hello, John. Question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question. What is a country mile and is it a recognized distance? Yeah, I like that. It's a bit more than a normal mile, isn't it? That's a. Isn't that. It's like a baker's dozen. I'm not quite sure, because, say, in a general election, a candidate wins by a huge majority. Somebody will say they won by a country mile. I always wondered what it was. Well, it must be more than a normal mile. If it was not more than a normal mile, it'd be a rubbish figure of speech, wouldn't it? Yeah, well, I thought it might be something to do old time, maybe. In the country, in the farmers, a couple of pubs, distances in a couple of pubs. The other race, country mile. It means. It means a really long way, but. Yeah. Why. Why do we use country milders? I like that. Yeah. Nice question. We're only allowed one origin, a phrase, question a week and John has nicked it for this week. So back in your box, if you've got one of your own. The archaeology grave robbing question is great, but we haven't yet got an answer, so bear that one in mind. Niall's question about car adverts. The registrations on cars always look different from normal and it didn't. I didn't understand the question, but lots of people listening did, so we'll crack on with that one. And the sheep. Why do sheep do pellets and cows do pats, even though they've got identical diets? 1240 is a time. A couple of phone lines free. We've got time for more questions, guys, haven't we? We're picking them off this week, so don't hold back. I can see two phone lines free. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you've got a question and you want to grab one of those lines. Graeme is in Orpington. Graham, question or answer? I've got an answer. James. Bring it on. Graham, about the car registration numbers in adverts. The reason they look a little bit funny is because they use letters like a h, zero, one, m. Anything that reads forwards the same as it reads backwards. So in this country, you do an advert for a car, you drive on the left, but you want to save money advertising the same car in Europe, so you just flip the image. That's a really nice answer. In fact, that's given me pause, actually, about whether or not you can dismiss a question as being dull until you actually know what the answer is. Because that answer, I would say, is about 100 times more interesting than the question. Qualifications? I worked in video reproductions years and years ago, so I used to accuse quality control adverts for cars, both in this country, and you get the same advert flipped in reverse for the continent. Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant, brilliant. I love those sort of little nuggets of information. Graham, thanks ever so much. And my apologies to the fellow who asked the question for being so dismissive and condescending. It's twelve four 10 345-606-0973 Frank is in seven oaks. Question or answer, Frank? It's an answer, James. Go on. Palindromes would be the word, wouldn't it, Frank? They'd be palindromes on the number plate. So they read the same backwards as forwards. That would be correct. Carry on. Sorry, Frank, I interrupt. Four stomachs. Yes. So therefore they process the grass a lot more efficiently than sheep and any other herbivore. So basically you get roughage in the horses, sheep, etc. Yeah, because it's just been processed in four different stomachs and all the. There's nothing left. You're talking about a pat. You've got a pat. There's no fibre, there's no roughage. It's all been absorbed. Yep. Qualifications? Used to go to agriculture in college. That'll do. Yeah. Nicely played. And that will work for Paul's kids, won't it, when he tells them a cow's got four stomachs and the sheep's only got one. So, you know, imagine the pellets come out of stomach one and then they go into stomach two and they get mushed up a bit and then they go into stomach three and they get kind of smashed up a bit, but it's still quite solid. And then they hit stomach four and then it just comes out as Pat. Exactly. Yeah. If you just simply compost and grass. If you put leaf grass, just put grass up on top of each other and just let water work away at it, that's eventually what happens. It just. Everything gets leached out. Very strong. Very strong. Well played, Frank. Did you go into agriculture after attending agricultural college? No, I didn't. Well, that's a bit odd. Done it for a couple of years and it's quite a vocational. It's quite a vocational education you had there, Frank. It was. But you sell the land you move on. You do, you do. Onwards and upwards. Sunny upland 1243. Sam is in Croydon. Question or answer, Sam? Question. Carry on. Why is the tea towel called a tea towel? Well, which bit are you confused by? The tail bit or the tea bit? No, a bath towel is obviously for when you're in and out of the bath. Yeah, but a tea towel is just for about the chin, not necessarily to do with tea. Well, sort of, but I mean, when. When they first started appearing in kitchens, they probably were the. What you picked up the teapot with, you know, it's a really hot thing in it. It's your towel for picking up the teapot. I gotta be honest with you, I only came up with that answer after I'd started speaking. Yeah, but it's quite a good one. That is quite a good one. Yeah, I suppose it. Because you wouldn't need it in any other circumstances, would you? It's like, what else would you need in the kitchen for? You know, we use it now for cleaning up and stuff. But you could use a sponge for that, you could use a dishcloth for that. But you wouldn't want a dish cloth near your teapot because it's, you know, a bit manky. Hot teapot needs to be picked up. I don't know. I'll leave it on the board, though. I don't think I've gone definitive. Why do you want to know? It's quite an odd thing to be worrying about down in Croydon. No, it's just when I'm in customers houses and there's a bit of water leakage. I'm saying, have you got a tea towel? Yeah. Just wondering why it's called a tea towel. Fair enough. Marley, are you a plumber at the washing machine? Fair enough. I just was a bit worried then. Thought you might have been a sort of incontinent tradesman or something like that. But it's good to know you're working on the white goods. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I don't often get distracted during mystery Albert. There's some footage of Nick Dunne, one of the so called Chennai six, getting into Newcastle airport a few moments ago and seeing his family. He's been in jail since 2013 after being convicted of carrying ammunition and unlicensed firearms, unsurprisingly because they were working as security guards on an anti piracy ship in the indian Ocean. But they fell foul of jurisdictional issues and got sent to jail. It's one of the most moving things I've ever seen. I don't even know which family members it was, whether it was his mum or his grandma in the wheelchair, his brother or his dad that came around in the background and whether the blonde lady is his partner or his sister. But my God, the rawness of that emotion is absolutely, absolutely magnificent. Ten minutes to one, cracking on with mystery, acknowledging that there's a stewards inquiry around the corner because I got a bit blindsided by old Frank telling me he went to agricultural college. I'm not surprised he didn't last long as a farmer, because the sheep is a ruminant as well as a cow, you prune, which means the sheep's also got four stomachs. So that question's back on the board. Stuart's in Crawley. Stuart, question or answer? Arthur. Carry on, Stuart, to the country mile. Yes. If you're out in the downs or in the woods or in country in general, you're walking uphill and down Dale. So you're going up and down, up and down. And if you. To actually stretch that out, if you used to flatten that out, it would obviously be a good quarter. Half a mile longer maybe, than. Would it actually? Well, walking in the country, even though you're walking the same distance officially feels like it's a lot longer. Yeah. So if you imagine the other expression, which as the crow flies. As the crow flies, is actually a proper mile, it's the opposite, would be flying straight and flat. Whereas if he's actually walking over the downs, up and down, up and down, up a mountain and down the other side. Yeah, you might. You might have only actually covered quarter mile, but you've gone a mile up and a mile down. Love it. That's 2 miles. Yeah, love it. Qualifications. I'll spend my entire life backpacking. It's reckoning and love every minute. Yeah. It's just much more arduous. I don't know that there is a definitive answer in the sort of annals in the brewers dictionary, a phrase and fable or whatever it is, but that's. That's as good as any, everyone. It's better than all the others. So if you're looking at a map and you, you look at the grid squares and you think, oh, it's only 5 miles and if you don't take into account the 3000ft of ascent of descent, you get a bit of a shock. Yeah, no idea you're on. Yeah, this is great work. Great. What's the best walk you've ever done? Hang on a minute, what's the best? Probably the pennine way? Yeah, beautiful. It's about 220 miles. You wake up every day in the morning and you walk to the horizon every single day for about 1617 days and it's fantastic. What do you do? Do you stay in youth hostels or do you camp or do you look for camps all the way? I've hit many, many of the paths, yeah, you're quite hardcore. You done peddlers way? Have you done peddlers way? Yeah. Down the coastal coast, the west island way. You need a tv show, stu, we got to get you a tv show. The southwest coast path. You name it, I've done it. Brilliant. And it's earned you this. Can't say it's very nearly a ray Leo to that, but I can't just give you a radiotor because you've done a lot of walking. Bow is in staines bow. Question or answer? It's actually an answer, James. Carry on. Bo, it's to the graveyard. Oh, grave robbing question. Yeah. So when does it become archaeology? Any time. But they've actually got to get commission from a data analyst to see, you know, say like a, if the site's actually protected or, you know, sort of like actually from, say, if it's recent, the family or. So, a marked grave, you can't dig it up without permission, but you can get permission if your case is strong enough. It goes for all sorts of file things and all that. And I say it's just a matter of whether or not, a, they will allow it or b, whether it's protected or not. Qualifications. It's actually from my wife and brother in law, because my wife's actually a data analyst and my brother in law is one of the top three anthropologies doctors in Florida. Right. So I think the round of applause, probably more for them. Well, not yet, because I don't really understand the answer. So if I want to dig up a grave, I go to a data analyst. It depends on how old the grave is and if they like, if it's sort of like a mass grave or it's got any historic. So there's no to. The answer to the question is there's no distinction between archaeology and grave robbing because you. The rules would be the same whether the grave is 500 years old or five years old. Pretty much, yeah. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Bo. Thank you. Hopefully I've redeemed this from the builder's question before. Which one was that? When is a building called a building? Yeah. That was you, was it? Yeah, I'm surprised that you would want to remind anyone of that moment, Bo. It was the second daftest moment we've ever had on mystery. Oh, well, I'd say, hopefully I've redeemed it. Even though you have, Bo, you've redeemed yourself. You redeemed yourself blind. Don't you want to know what the daft this moment was? What was that? That was when a fella rang in and said, why don't islands float away? And I met him in Hammersmith, he's a lovely bloke, he's a doctor. Oh, I've sport the punchline. I met him in Hammersmith a few years later and we had a chat and he revealed who he was, which I thought was quite courageous of him, and it turned out he was a doctor. It turned out on air that he was a doctor, didn't he? I said, what do you do for a living? I need to work on that anecdote. Mark is in Surbiton. Mark, question or sir? Button, as it says here. Mark, question or answer? Carry on, Mark. Right. It's the tea towel one. Oh, yes. Why? It's called tea towel. Well, years ago, when you made hot tea, used to put a tea towel over the pot to keep it warm. Yes. And then you'd use a tea towel to wipe the dishes up, which is nice and warm. Yes. Qualifications? My grand used to make tea. That doesn't single you out. No, but only for me, especially proper tea. Lemon tea. Well, I kind of. I've already done this. I can't. That's what I said. I kind of needed. When I said qualification finished it, you didn't answer the question fully. And then the tea towel was used to wipe up the dishes because it was nice and dry. Yeah, but it was already called a tea towel before anyone wiped the dishes with it. Yeah, but then it was called a towel, so you can wipe up the dishes. So, tea towel. Yeah. I sense that, you know, you've got quite a lot riding on this. I'm not in the mood for a scrap. Right, well, I think I'm right and I've never had any applause. I've never actually answered the question, although I listen to you all the time. All right, and I think you're brilliant. Yeah, you really educate me very well. Yeah, he's over the line. That's it. I'm not having. I'm not a row remark. Everything he says is gospel truth. Thank you, mate. Omar is in Gravesend. Question or answer? Omar. It's the answer to the goat. And sorry, the sheep and cow. Yes. Yes, because our agricultural, former agricultural college student was quite spectacularly wrong. A sheep has four stomachs, as does a cow. So why does a cow do pats when a sheep does pellets? Omar? It's how they evolved. Because cows have evolved on lowlands and forests, whereas sheep and goats evolved in the mountains where there's a lot less moisture and also a lot less green foods. So when they excrete the toppings, they have taken all the moisture out of the food that is strong. And if you have, like. If you notice sheep in fields, their feces will change throughout the year. As their farmers put them on hay, they will get drier and pelleted. This is. This is the point at which I take your word for it. I'm not going to go and start examining feces in fields of sheep or cows or indeed any other ruminant. But that moisture retention evolutionary answer is brilliant. Okay, what are your qualifications? Nothing. Interest? No, but, mate, you got to give me something. What do you mean interest? You just got an interest in sheep poo. Now, in most. Most natural things. I called you about the white insects sleep a few months ago. Yeah. So just. You're just interested in the natural world. But where did you pick up this particular nugget, if you pardon the pun? I really don't remember. What, I can't give you a round of applause, man. Where did you read it? I do have a degree in biology, so I read a lot of evolution. That'll be hit then. I've got a degree in biology. You could have just said that. What you call if I've got a degree in biology, James. Okay. What school did you go to? What university? London. Met London Metropolitan University, degree in biology. Made you an expert on sheep feces? Yeah. There you go. Explanation of that university? What? No, nothing. What's that noise in the background? It's my doggie toy. Okay. Is the dog all right? Your dog's fine. Cool. I've got. I've got 44 seconds left. I haven't got any more answers on the board. I mean, what you doing this weekend? Anything nice? I don't think so, no. You're gonna take the dog out, though, on you. Check out some quality sheep feces? Yes, probably. What do you prefer, cow pats or sheep pellets? Cow pats. You can use them to as firewood as well. You can when they've dried out. We used to use them as frisbees when I was a kid. They used to make us play rugby on a field. Where the cows had been and the cow pats were so frozen that one kid had to go to hospital because he got. His leg got cut wide open by a flying cow pat. Oh, my. You got me over the line. This is a lot more surreal than usual. You're telling me, mate. Sheila Fogarty's got to take out the bat on now. Quite what she's going to do is anybody's guess. We'll do this again tomorrow morning from ten. Omar. Did Omar get a round of applause? He did. Sheila Fogarty's just having a small sort of paroxysm in the background. What's the battle made of? Frozen sheep or sheep or cow parsnips? If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every week, weekday morning from ten only on LBC.