What happens to doves when they are released?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Our weekly opportunity. Every hour is a mystery hour. At the moment, you have to stop saying that. A little tired, but it's true. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. The way it works is this. Someone will ring in with a question. It will have a multicombe of intelligence attached to it, hopefully, but I can't guarantee that anymore. And someone else will then ring in with the answer, which sounds odd and possibly even dull, but trust me, it's like alchemy. Something magical happens. The planets of wreath ian values align and we find ourselves being informative, educational and entertaining, ideally all at the same time, between twelve and one every Thursday. Today, it won't quite be a mystery hour because, as you know, the selection of a new prime minister is underway and we are approaching the beginning of the home straight. It's sort of the end of the beginning and for that reason, accommodating the crescendo in the background music, somewhat expertly there, if you'd allow me to say so. For that reason, we'll be having another visit from LBC's esteemed political editor, Mister Theo Usherwood, to just run us through what is going to be happening during the afternoon. And then, of course, you'll be able to hear it all unfolding live with Sheila Fogarty and Eddie Mair. Two, for my money, of the finest broadcasters working in Britain, or indeed anywhere else today. You lucky, lucky people. So give me a ring if you've got a question. A who, a why, a what, a where, a when, a whither or a wherefore. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If it's really obvious, you know, why don't you ever see baby pigeons or something like that? Then, you know, we've been doing this for a decade now, so we will have covered it before if you want to be careful. And there's no reason why you need to, because there's about five times as many people listening the program as there was when we started mystery hour. So I can't ban questions that were on the board ten years ago on the grounds that there's probably no one listening now that was listening then. Don't all write in at once to tell me that you were. I love you dearly, like family, but it does mean that the question shouldn't be boring and shouldn't generally have anything to do with motoring, which is more or less the same thing. The number you need if you want to answer a question is the same as the number that you need if you want to ask a question. I only want. And I've got Alex working with me today, who's never done mystery out before in the. In the big chair. I think he's been an assistant on me. But. But I only want one question about the origin of phrases. You know, where does that come from? That I don't know why? I just made this rule up a while ago and I still like it. So it's still there. It remains in place. Seven minutes after twelve is the time I keep mentioning the number as and when there are any vacancies on my switchboard, the question becomes, that's it really, isn't it? I can't think of anything else. You'll get a ray LiotTa if you don't know what that is, wait and see. You get a round of applause if you provide an answer. No repetition, no dullness, no motoring questions. Only one question about the origin of phrases or words and you can't look anything up. Thank you, Keith. Yeah, that's actually really important. So you might hear someone ask a question, you'll think, well, that's easy, I'll google it. Don't google it. I know it sounds odd, but this is a bit like when you were allowed to start taking calculators into maths exams and people of a certain age thought, well, that's outrageous. You couldn't do that when I was young. And then you sort of say, well, why is it outrageous? In what possible circumstances in life are you not going to be able to use a calculator to do calculations? And you sort of go, oh, yeah, but it still feels wrong. Am I right? Yeah. It's the same with the Internet. My kids are growing up in a world where theoretically, they don't need to know anything because it is all there at their fingertips. If you know how to process information, you get taught how to sift through stuff, then the question is fairly straightforward, you know, but I don't like that. I'm old, you know, I'm 47, I'm a child of my circumstances. I still like knowing stuff. I think knowledge is really important, I always will. I'm raising my children to think that knowledge is important. You probably are as well. But when they turn around and say, why do I need to learn all this stuff? I can literally get it all off the Internet in 30 seconds, dad. And you'll think, crikey, phew, thank God I've got a job where I actually have to move a little bit faster than my fingers could on a keyboard. I have to keep talking. Knowledge is important, but that's why we do it like this. It's a celebration of education, illumination and education. I already said that. Eight minutes after twelve is the time Anthony is on Tottenham Court Road. Anthony, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Anthony, is there a minimum amount of time that someone would have had to live in a property before they can get a blue plaque outside? Oh, I like that question. I know that you have to have been dead for a minimum amount of time before you can. 25 years. You're good on you, because I just put Tommy Cooper up near me last year. Or the year before. It's a nice one, don't you think? Um. I live around. Charles Dickens seems to have lived in every. I live in Holborn and he seems to have lived in every property, you know. But he's got loads of plaques up and they've got a plaque up for the workhouse he was in as well, I think, haven't they? What's the name of that street coming up north? North from you. From Tottenham Court Road up towards you. Oh, he's just off fearbuild. Right. If it's John street or Doughty street, he's got some places in one I'm thinking of. What's the one I'm thinking of? Just straight off Oxford street, you see, I used to walk up it when I was doing news night. No, not New Oxford street. I'd have remembered that. Anthony, I'm not a complete harbor. That's all I find out. Yeah, I bet there isn't. Because some of the ones I've seen, I think there's one around the corner where Mozart sort of stayed on holiday. Oh, well, this is the thing. If someone lives, someone might have been struggling for money, lives at their friend's house for three months. Does that qualify as a. I imagine that the records are so hard to find and establish that if you can prove they live there at all, you probably qualify for a blue plaque. Because Cecil Court is the one I'm thinking of. You know where all the old fashioned bookshops are. Yeah. There's a Mozart one there and I'm pretty sure. I'm pretty sure it says Mozart stayed here on a visit to London with a. With a bow. Really? Yeah. Right. Fair enough. But we'll find out. I love that. I love the dickens ones as well. And I wish I could remember the name of that street. It'll come to me too late when nobody cares anymore. Anthony. Thank you. Is there a minimum amount of time that you have to have stayed in a gaff in order to qualify for a blue pack on the exterior walls of said gaff zero 345-606-0973 I think pound for pound, if you are ever in London to visit the museums, you're in the sort of museum quarter around Russell Square. There's a street just on the edge of Brunswick Square. William Empson, the poet and critic, is one of the blue plaques there and I think Kenneth Williams of all people is as well. Pound for pound I think you get more blue plaques per front door on that little street just parallel to Brunswick Square which someone will send me the name of imminently than you do anywhere else. But I mention that only for people who, like me are a bit aniracy about this stuff. There's something about touching history that just animates my soul. I don't know why it doesn't do it for everybody, you know, but it does for me. That idea of being able to reach the past somehow through thinking that the stairs in that building were once walked up by Mozart. I love all that stuff. Keith's laughing at me. Philistine. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time Eddie is in crew. Eddie, question or answer? Afternoon, James. Lovely to talk to you. I've got a question, please. Good man. Okay, so my twin daughters have an ever growing Rolodex of questions and I have to make an executive decision every Thursday. Sounds about right. Which one I pick. So this is the one from the babe's mouth. So we've got the invisible line around the center of the earth called the equator and north and south of that we've got the two lines of tropics, we've got the cancer and Capricorn and I've just always wondered, as of the twins, why have we picked those two out of the twelve that we could have picked? Why not Leo and Libra? Oh, I wonder if that is answerable. I mean, you have to begin by wondering who names stuff like that. Who knows? Probably british navy. Actually an awful lot of history of that kind does have its roots with us. Certainly the stuff that survived. Mate of mine at school, his dad named the mountain after himself. Really? Yeah, he was in the army. He was in the sort of. I don't know what bit of the army it would be. Which bit of the army would be exploring stuff that hasn't been explored before. Surveyors, maybe? Yeah, something like that. And it's called. I won't say his name because I haven't checked with him that it's okay. But it was pretty cool. You know, when you're sort of playing, my dad's bigger than your dad at school. Yeah. And he was very hard to beat, Eddie. I'm not surprised. But if your name's Everest, you're gonna struggle at school. I think he went into double glazing. So the keys had a whole mountain named after himself. I shall find out for you who decided to name the tropics, cancer and Capricorn. I like that question. And indeed, why. Zero 345-606-0973 is there a minimum amount of time that you have to have spent in a place to qualify for having a blue plaque on the outside of that place? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you've now got the gist of it, if you haven't done this before, then this is a great introduction. There's some lovely examples of the sort of questions you can ask. You can go a lot sillier, you really can. Or indeed a lot more serious. It's up to you. Calvin is in Mitcham. Calvin, question or answer? Hello. Good afternoon, James. Hello, Calvin. What's on? I've got a question for you. Why do they have to sing abide with me at the FA cup final? But do they have what? Do they sing it formally? Yes. Before the national anthem, they always sing every epic of final. I didn't know that. I've never been. Actually, I did go once, but I was still in hospitality when they were singing the national every epic of final. They were sing abide with me before they sing the national anthem. So I just want to find out why. Because the funeral song and the wedding song. Yes, you did well, I mean, that's probably part of the answer. It'll be to mark or commemorate something. I don't know, but I love that. Great question, actually. Great stuff. Speaking of hospitality, my thanks to the Lawn Tennis association for hosting me at Queen's Club yesterday. We had a marvellous, marvellous time. Do you know who was there? Am I allowed to tell you? I've already tweeted it. So you remember Theo was getting his knickers in a right old twist about John Bercow at the end of yesterday's program, not intervening during PMQs to tell off the Scottish. Ian Blackford, the leader in Westminster of the Scottish National Party for accusing Boris Johnson of racism. And weirdly, I get to Queen's. It's raining. So I go straight into the. Do you know where I went first when I got to Queens yesterday? Cheese board. I went straight to the cheese board. Amazing cheese. You know when you look at a cheese board and you just think, I could stay here for the rest of my life. So I went straight towards the cheese board, filled my boots, glanced across who's behind me, stuffing his little face with strawberries. John Bercow. It's a small old world. This is LBC Mystery Hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 17 is the time. Just a quick heads up. I do try and tweet everything substantive that is referred to on the program. So, for example, that report from the Institute of Government on the delivery of the 2012 Olympics. I've retweeted my correspondent and fact checker, incorrigible FCA, and that reference earlier to the report that the European Union, the European Commission, I think has published today on North south cooperation on the island of Ireland. I've retweeted the RTE, the irish broadcasters report on it, which is a lot easier to access and understand than having to wade through the report itself. I always try and give you the documents, give you the facts, you know, the evidence to support anything that's being discussed on the program. So if you follow me on Twitter, mrjamesob, or if you don't follow me, you can just head over there. You certainly don't have to inflict my appalling jokes on yourself by actually clicking on follow. But if you want to go and have a look, anything that I mention on the show, I tried to tweet the relevant documents, serial, if you like, because someone has to. Otherwise you'll end up marching around the place thinking that GATT 24 means something or that the Lisbon treaty is about to start doing stuff in 2021 that it hasn't yet. I mean, all the stuff that, you know, pops up on your Facebook feed but is false, or at the very least, highly questionable. So at Mister Jamesob is my Twitter name. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need to take part in mystery. Martin is in Dublin. I'm getting Martin. Do you know what? I'll tell you what an idiot I am, shall I? Yes, please. I am now getting cross about the number of people that are ringing me from Ireland because they don't get counted on the ratings. Oh, but that doesn't make sense. I should be delighted. I am UK based. Why are you over here for the week? Oh, well, that's all right. If they send you one of those diaries, you know where to stick your ticks. Now, question or answer, Martin? It's a question. Carry on. If you've got a stutter and you're an english speaker. Yes. Does that mean that if you learn a foreign language, you'll have a stutter in that as well, because of tonal inflections and things like that? I quite like that question. I don't know. Obviously, I don't know. I know that there was a lad at school who could sing without stuttering but couldn't speak. Have you ever heard that before? That was in the king's speech. It was, wasn't it? Yeah, it was. But this was. I was at school long before the king's speech came out, so the teacher who encouraged him to sing. I remember his name, but again, it wouldn't be right to say it on air. He would sing, so he'd stand up and he'd be. It was a bit cruel to make him do this, actually. You know, when you go around the class saying, you'd be Hamlet, you be Juliet, or whatever it might be, he'd stand up and he'd be reading and he'd start stuttering, and the teacher would say, sing it. And then he'd say his name. Sing it and he'd sing it and he'd do fine. That wasn't his name then. What? Sing it. No, no, no, I can remember his name, oddly. He had a mountain named. No, that was a different bloke. Martin, I shall find out for you. What are you up to in Dublin? You having a good time? I'm working out here. Can I recommend a restaurant to you? It's quite posh. Are you in the market for a posh restaurant? Absolutely. Because it was Father's Day on Sunday, so we pushed the boat out a little bit. I'm not going to be able to flip and find it now, am I? This is outrageous. I'm picking up. Here we go. Bear with me one moment. It is called Fallon and Bern and it's on Exchequer street. Right. I had one of the best meals. It was not cheap, my friend, but it was one of the best meals that I've had in a very, very long time. And there's a food hall downstairs, so if you find that the menu, the bill of fare is a bit rich for your blood, at least you can pick up a tin of tomatoes. And I'll tell them James sent me. Yeah. They'll go, James. Ohuhu. As I'm known in Ireland, 21 minutes after twelve is the time. John's in Basingstoke. John, question or answer? Next question. James. Carry on. Doves. Yes. When they release doves, say, like the d day celebration the other week. Yes. Where do the doves go? Are they. Hang on, Keith. Round of applause. Question. Superb. Well played. Thank you very much. Love it, love it. Go on. Well, the thing is, if they captive bred, they're not really released because they'll fly home to where they're. Where they're from. Yes. And if they're caught from the wild, seems a little bit cruel. It does. So you have to presume that they're captive bred, don't you? Well, that's. That's kind of what I thought. So what I thought was that they were captive bred and then they returned home to their dog. Well, we shall find out. I love that question. Because the idea that these are sort of. These are going to be snowflake doves. Right. They're not going to be able to. They're not going to be able to go toe to toe with a. With an urban pigeon. Well, they would be vulnerable to some certain predators. They're going to get absolutely mullied. They wouldn't last until tea time. Did I ever tell you, John, about why I fell out with the Beckhams over some doves? Seriously? I'll go Pete Partridge. Today. I got on very well with it. I was the first Johannes to interview David after the Simeone incident. People find this very hard to remember, but he was public enemy number one. He got sent off in the World cup for kicking out at Diego Simeone and everybody hated him. They were all queuing up to give him a kicking and a coating his effigies on bonfire night. And I did the first interview with him as part of his rehabilitation. Victoria was pregnant with what would become Brooklyn. She was about eight months gone. And she did his hair. It was lovely, actually. So what I did, without telling them is I put down the side of the article in the newspaper. I put styling by Victoria Adams, because they weren't. They weren't married at the time. We were getting on great and I was in the frame to ghost write David's autobiography. And then they got married, John, and for reasons I can't remember, because I bore them no ill will whatsoever, I just think I hadn't had my name in the paper for a while. So I offered to write a little piece taking the mickey out of their marriage ceremony. And the big thing that I focused in on was the flipping doves, because they released some doves. And I said, as those doves flew away over the horizon, so did the last vestiges of credibility that the Beckhams will ever have or something really stupid like that. And I got a phone call within minutes of the paper appearing the next day. From there, very, very Ferrari PR, making it quite clear that I should never darken their doorstep again. And I was probably, oh, no. Sad old tale, eh? So if you're listening, David, if you're listening in LA to this mid morning radio phone it show, I'd just like to say sorry for that. Well, maybe he knows what Mple's does. Maybe David will ring in and tell us. You'll say, don't worry, James, they all flew back again. So I just want to say sorry for that and I'm very glad that things have worked out all right for you, despite not having my assistance anymore on the pr front. That is a perfect question from John in Basingstoke. Where do the doves go when they're released? At ceremonies, if you have a stutter in your native language, does the stutter sustain into foreign languages that you may learn or speak? Why do they sing abide with me at the FA cup final? I tell you what, we carry on like this, David Beckham could answer every question on the board. Why do we call the tropics after cancer and Capricorn? And how long do you have to live in a place to qualify to have a blue plaque on it after you is dead? Uh, Alex is in Glasgow. Alex, question or answer? That's an answer, James. Carry on, Alex. It's about the tropics of cancer in Capricorn. Oh, good, oh, good, good, good. Carry on. So it was about 1000 years ago, or, sorry, 2000 rather, when they came up with all these kind of things. Oh, yeah. Oh, was it? So it's nothing to do with the british navy then? It's much more ancient than that. No, but this is where I've got my answer from. So what you've got is the earth is tilted 23 and a half degrees, and so we get our summer and winter by the sun going north and south. Yes. And so when the sun's at its highest point, north at 23 and a half degrees, if you were to look 2000 years ago, it would be entering the star sign of cancer. And so that point, which we call the tropic, was when the sun was in cancer. So it's like a reflection of the sky? Yeah, I mean, I suppose we need. And the same for Capricorn. Capricorn is when it's 23 and a half, or was at that time, it's no longer 23. And do we know why the. Why the constellations got the names that they got? Various reasons. Some of them were greek God, some of them were just. Cancer's the crab, isn't it? So presumably it's because the stars look like a crab or something like that, or a mountain goat, or they move like a crab. They vaguely kind of do. It was. I mean, like, say, taurus and things like that. You've got to really look to kind of pick it out. It's very, very. It's very much, you know, human's ability to make patterns out of anything. Yes, of course it is. To see patterns in things. So, I mean, strictly speaking, you have answered the question. The tropics are so named because. Because of the sky. That is where the sun was in the sky at night at the time of year, when it was also, um, at the declination, what we call it the sun's latitude above the. So it would be directly overhead. Love it. Qualifications? Tropical cancer. Um, many, many years ago, when I went to sea, I studied astro navigation and I've never lost the love of, like, looking at the sky in astronomy since then. Astro navigation because you were a sailor? Yes. Cool. Round of applause. Thank you. No, you're very welcome. What a useful bit of knowledge that was. Seriously. That was me whanging on about David Beckham's wedding. Owen is in Enfield. Owen, what would you like to say? Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Oh, go on, then. Nice one. It's an answer about the doves, about where they go. Oh, yes. They basically trained to go home to where they obviously came from. You know the reason I know this because my daughter got married a couple of years back and there was a released dove each. A pair of doves. And I asked a fellow who owned the doves go. They just fly off because. No, they're. Trains have come back to where. Where I keep them, like home invasion sort of thing. Great little business, then. Yeah. Oh, yeah, isn't it? I mean, you could. I suppose you could charge for a whole dove. No one's going to be any the wiser, aren't they? So really, you just rent. It's not the most romantic thing I've ever heard. What did you do on your money, though? We. We rented a couple of doves, basically. Yeah. Yeah. You didn't tell your daughter, did you? Sorry, say again? You didn't tell your daughter. You tell your daughter, they go off and make a nest somewhere and live together happily ever after. Oh, no, she lives. Anyway, people started getting owls a while ago. Did you see that? They started after Harry Potter. They started getting an owl to fly up the middle of the church and deliver the rings to the altar. I love that. You're not Victoria Beckham's dad, are you, by any chance suddenly you should say that. Proud of applause for Aaron. I forgot his chocolate. Making me giggle. Now, you've got to turn those corners down when they get the giggles. Otherwise I go all sort of kindergarten. But we. We usually guarantee a laugh out loud moment during Miss Jabba. I stopped doing it because I thought it seemed a little bit arrogant. I don't know why. Because it's nothing to do with me. It's a combination of the callers and the contributors. But if you haven't had a laugh out loud moment today, then you must be made of pudding. Which reminds me. Hello, Mark Francois. Sue is in western France. Sue, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carrie. Whereabouts in western France are you? Sue? I'm 5 km from the coast of the vendett Monte. Delightful. You can't see Nigel Lawson's place from where you are, can you? No, no. Just as well. Just as well. He might struggle to control your gesticulations. Um, what is your question? Uh, it's about Hollywood, James. Oh, yes. You know the big white Hollywood sign. No. The iconic sign. No. On the Hollywood hill? No. Liar. Don't wind me up. I'm nervous. I'm trying to put you at your ease. You see, it's worked out. I'm passingly familiar with the Hollywood sign. Right. I was watching an old documentary a couple of months ago. I was watching the documentary about the old times in Hollywood. Oh, yeah. And there was shots of this sign. And it actually said Hollywood land. Yes, it did. I remember that. Now. I'm just wondering, did the land just drop off and they left it, or did they make a decision to change it? When did it happen and how? Oh, I like that. That's a lovely question. There were stories, weren't there, about stars, wannabe actors or actresses who hadn't made it, throwing themselves off the. Off the side and humanity being what it is. I wouldn't be surprised if you're right. And it is just they couldn't be bothered to fix it and realize it looked pretty good without that. But we want to know exactly when and why the land. The land disappeared from the Hollywood sign. Yeah, the footage I saw, I guess, was from two thousand and thirty s. Oh, cool. Sort of fatty Arbuckles here. It definitely said Hollywood. No, it did. It rings a bit. Rings a bell with me. I love that era. That kind of. It's where noir comes from really, as well, isn't it? Okay, you're on, Sue. I love it. I do, too. I'm late for the new Sue. I hope you take that as a compliment. Thank you very much, my darling. You're very welcome. It's 1231. Thomas Watts. How's your headline six. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Quick heads up for you. Slightly appropriate, given that we spent much of the program today discussing the former mayor of London. If you would like to put a question to the current mayor of London in person, as opposed to down the phone, which you can do on a roughly monthly basis here on LBC, then pay attention, because the state of London is back on Thursday. The 27 June checks the date. Yeah, that's a week today. That's a week today. I'll be hosting the event at the Indigo o two out near Greenwich. It's where the mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, will be answering your questions. And seriously, anything you want, within reason you can't ask him to sort of dance a jig or do a Rubik's cube. But seriously, anything you want, put that in your diary. And if you want to come along, get over to LBC dot co dot UK for further details and information on how to get tickets. That's the state of London on Thursday the 27 June will be looking into that story that you just heard in the news bulletin about the catholic church and victims of child abuse being horribly let down. And I will be trying, just so that, you know, to find a way of talking with you about it. But I will not be using it, obviously, as some sort of weapon with which to claim that all Catholics are somehow therefore dodgy. Because there's only one religion where that happens in this country at the moment. 1237 is the time. Back to mystery. Ask Sam's in West Drayton. Sam, question or answer for you, buddy? Carry on. It's the FA cup one. The why they always sing abide with me. Yes, it's Arthur Elvin, who was the. The owner and the instigator. You haven't looked this up, have you, Sam? You haven't looked this up. No, I promise you. I promise you not. I've had to. I've had to call someone about. This was my nan who's had to answer on my behalf. That's allowed. No, that's allowed. Give him my love, won't you? I will do, I will do. I'm hoping to share my. Carried away. Sammy. Let's not get carried away. Carry away. Arthur Elvin. He was the owner of the Wembley stadium. It was his favourite hymn and he requested that of every game of importance that they would sing abide with me. I love this. This is a beautiful answer. It was like his little deal. He was probably. It was his thing. It was like a. He was probably, you know, a methodist or someone like that. Like a very religious person, probably. I guess for some reason he requested that the. The third line of the hymn was removed. We don't really know why. It was just. What was the third line of the hymn? I don't. We don't know. You could probably find it out. But we don't know why he requested it. We have a note to say that he'd like this. Really? Yeah. That's absolutely fascinating. Qualifications. The qualifications. And this is pretty good, I guess I'm hoping to. I'm hoping to score something with this one. It's. My great grandfather was the man in the white suit, Arthur Cajer. He used to conduct the. The community singing before every match back in the. Well, a long time ago, back in the old 1920s and thirties and all that. And Arthur Elvin himself asked Arthur Cajer to put abide with me in every single game of importance. And Arthur Kazer was your grandma's dad? My great note was my father in law. She was my granddad's father and it was him. If you go on to. No, mate, you've done it. I'm just having a little moment to absorb the beauty of this. This little. It's pretty good. I've been waiting a long time for a mystery hour thing and I think I've smashed out the ballpark. Well, I could. That's not. I don't count your chickens because it's not Arthur Elvin. Is it your great granddad? No, but it was him who asked my great grandfather. And we have a note to prove it. We have a brilliant. Oh, no, this is just brilliant. And you've got the note that says, leave out the third line. Can you leave out the third note? We don't know why. Maybe something religious. Oh, well, I'll have a look. What is your grandma listening at the moment? I don't know if she is, but I can always play it back on. Make sure you do. Now, a bit of silence, please, everybody. To properly honor what is about to happen. I'm really Oda and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. That's a life achievement. Ticked off, mate. Full on shivers, that one. For some reason. It's absolutely. You get a round of applause as well, of course. Thank you very much. That's why we do it. That's why we do it, actually, without getting too carried away. That's why I come to work every day. Moments like that, full on tingles. Tingle central there. That's pretty good. Quickly, if you do go on to YouTube and type his name, Arthur Cajole or the man in the white suit, you'll see a little clip of him doing his thing in front of thousands of people. Magic. Nice one, Sam. Love to you. Grand. Seriously, that was a perfect moment. Perfect moment. As Martin McCutcheon might have said, 1240. Continuing the musical theme, though, you see effortlessly. 1241 other questions that need answers. We know where the doves go, where did the land bit go and when. On the Hollywood sign, it used to say Hollywood land. If you stutter in English or your native language, do you stutter in other languages? And how long do you have to live in a place before you qualify for a blue plaque? I've got time for a couple more as well, actually, because we will curtail proceedings a little early today so that Theo Washwood can prepare us for the next round of voting in the conservative leadership campaign. But not like mega early. Shasheed is in Wandsworth. Shashid, question or answer? Hello, James. I'm in one. I'm answering a question. Thank you. It's great to have you on board. I'm just very, very nervous because I've never called a radio station. For me, I have nothing to be nervous about. I'm going to tell you two things. The first is that you're among friends. And the second is you're going to get all the time you need to say whatever it is you want to say. I promise you that. Okay? Yeah. I mean, I listen to you all the time. I'm calling you up at you because I do find you funny as well when you're making fun of Boris Johnson. I don't know what you mean, Shashi. There's no accounting for taste. Which question are you going to answer? I think I've got an inkling. Stammering question. I speak English and I also speak Punjabi as well. And I will tell you that I started in both languages. If I'm trying to help, help my daughter do French, I'll even start in French as well. It's very difficult. It's like, whatever. Whatever language you speak, you will stutter. It definitely happens. You've put me in a very odd situation, shasheed, because I don't think this has ever happened before, but, I mean, the question is pretty simple. If you stutter in one language, will you stutter in another? And you have rung up bilingual telling us that you stutter in both languages. You know what this means? Do you know what this means, shasheed? No. It means, for the first time ever, we're gonna. We're gonna have consecutives. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. They will come. Well done, mate. Cheers, James. I just want to say, I can't even say your surname without stuttering, so I'm not. I'm not even going to try. Don't worry. Have a round of applause on me and we'll talk again, I hope. Top man. Great work. Great work, James. Thank you. No, you take it easy. You take it easy. 1244 is the time. I don't think that will be happening again ever. Now, that was a little magical moment there. Michael's in. Leads. Michael, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. How are you? Very well. Michael, what's on your mind? Right, no, I don't care what's on your mind. I need you to answer a question. The answer to your Hollywood land. Hollywood land in 1949. That. To refurbish the sign, to rebuild it all. And because 39 in 49, 40. 1949. Yes. Now, it was coming. Less land in Hollywood and more urban housing districts. Right. So they got rid of the land because there was less land. Oh, really? Basically, it's as simple as that. And so it used to be, like a massive park land, and then it became a residential area, so calling it land seemed silly. All the Griffith park, which is. It's huge Griffith park. Yes. And getting to the sign is another quest. It can be done, but it's a long way around to get to the top. Have you done it? Halfway. And we went another way. We're YouTube vloggers, so we have to go to Hollywood. We're family vlogger. And we got to Hollywood and we said, we'll get to the Hollywood sign. We got halfway and took a diversion and we got another great view of the sign. And not. Not from the back, which get from the back. Would be great. But having, like, two little girls at a time, just walking the hills. Yes. And it basically is the hills. I spoke to you in Sheffield a couple weeks ago. Oh, good man. Good man. And you find my autobiography that I brought to you. Oh, sorry, your autobiography? Hey, I'm not Les in Bexley Heath, mate. I haven't written my. I haven't written my autobiography yet. But you didn't mention the YouTube's. Why? You wouldn't have time. No, I mentioned. I just shook your hand. I nearly broke it by accident and I mentioned my business and things like that, but, yeah, YouTube channel, Ricciardo spam. The vlogs, if I'm allowed to mention. Yeah, of course you are. And is it history? Is it history that you do? Yeah, we do a lot of history. Theme parks, museums, restaurants. We're basically like a daily vlogger. Really nice one. Family vlogging. Ricardo's family vlog. Well, we shall. We shall have a look at it. And in the meantime, you can add this. You can put this in your trophy cabinet. Thank you, my friend. No, thank you, Michael. 1949, it changed and it was a sort of geographical description based decision due to the housing more becoming housing than land. Yeah. Makes perfect sense now that. Now that, you know, it's not a romantic answer that I suspect sue and I were hoping for, because we're both romantics at heart. Sue in western France. But, um. But it's. It's. It's almost certainly the correct one. Nice one. Thank you, Michael. And thanks for coming along to the gig in Sheffield as well. I've done loads. They've all been brilliant, all been absolutely lovely. But Sheffield, being my mum's hometown, had a special sort of resonance for me and everyone was utterly lovely. 1246 is the time we are on LBC with James O'Brien. Thank you very much indeed. It's ten minutes. Why am I saying thank you very much indeed? It's just a sort of lazy comeback. I was reading all the tweets coming in about the double Liotta that we just undertook on the program. Awful lot of love for you, Shahid, as well. I think a lot of people appreciate that. It would have been. Been quite a big deal for you to ring up a radio station, but you covered yourself in glory and you walked away with the highest accolade available anywhere on british radio. Do you know, even one of my old bosses has got in touch after that, he says the last ten minutes on LBC without Mister James Ob are the best evidence anyone could ever need about the power and influence of radio. Gosh, I was already tingly. But that's a former program controller of this very station. It is 1251. Theo ushered is on standby to steer us into the next round of the labour labor of the conservative leadership. I'm emotional fear. I'm emotional. I'm not made of flint, you know. I know you think that I'm this steely kind of feelings, free automaton, facts and evidence being the only currency in which I deal. But I've got a heart, Theo, and my heart is. My heart got squeezed today, actually. Speaking of which, it's quite timely that we'll finish a little early because. Because you're here and we won't improve on what just happened. We won't improve on that little ten minute. So thank you, everyone. 1251 is the time. Breda is in Collindale. Breda, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Have you? Yes. For the blue plex question? Yes. Right, okay. So it's basically, it's not. It's not time limited. It's not based on the amount of time that you've lived in a house, but it has to be your principal place of residence during your lifetime. Well, what about the Mozart one? In principal place of residence. So if you've lived. So that's not. That's based on. Because it's a London run scheme. Yeah. So originally. So it would have been where he lived, principally, whilst he lived in London. Oh, okay. So I think he was only eight. He was touring Europe like a child prodigy. This would be. This. What would this be? 1750s or 1760s? Yeah, but because that was that he was living in London at that point and that was the place that he spent most of his time. But still, if he'd only been there for what he'd been on holiday, it wouldn't have been his principal residence. I don't. I don't think he was. Was he? I think he would have been for longer. He was only there for a matter of months. I do remember that because I see it most mornings. He stayed with a barber, who I think his name was. Cousins or cousin, but. Oh, right, okay, so it wasn't his house. It was the barber's house. And the Mozart stayed there because the lad, the eight year old lad was. But was it? But if that's the place that he spent most of his time when he was in London and that's where he lived. Yeah, that's what. That's. That. That's what they were on a grand tour of Europe. But when they were in London, this was his main place. He was living in London. He lived and that's. He wasn't here on it, you know, a week's holiday. No, I guess not. I mean, he was working and performing and therefore living. Residing. Yep. That's the. Do you know what the weirdest one is? They've turned it into a museum and I forgot who the other one is. It's a famous composer and Jimi Hendrix. Oh, that's Handel, isn't it? Handel and Hendricks lived in the same house and they've turned it into a museum. To Handel and Hendricks, I think so near Oxfordshire. My eldest went there the other day and said it was absolutely brilliant. And that's lovely, isn't it, when the heritage comes together? Well, I couldn't get my head around it. It's such an odd thing to do. They both lived there, so let's make a museum dedicated to both of them. But apparently it's worked out brilliant. Everybody knows that one, James. They all like it. Everybody. What are your qualifications? I sense we're in your field of expertise here. Breeder. I'm an inspector of history buildings for Historic England. Oh, wow. Is that. Oh. How did you get into a job like that? Oh, um. Probably by luck, really. And my background is in history and archaeology. You did a degree? Yes. Two degrees. What, in history and archaeology? Yeah. And then I did a postgraduate degree in heritage management. I know, I. Well, that young lady I just mentioned, and I deal with Gunnersbury park, which I believe is very near you, and they've recently refurbished the house there, haven't they? Yes. So that's the kind of work that I do. That's a. My. My daughter would love your job. When she's older, if her current teenage enthusiasms persist into adulthood, I might be ringing you up and asking for a bit of work experience. You're very welcome to. It's. It's. I'm very lucky I have a job I love. That is. Oh, same hair breeder. We've got something in common. You'd have been close to getting a Ray Liotta if the bar hadn't been set so high already. I know it's very high, but you can indeed. I look forward to it. In the meantime, please accept this with my compliments. Don't do this very often, but I'm just going to name the lads who've been working on the program today because it's been a little bit special. So, well done, Corey. Well done, Sam. Thank you, Alex. And well done. Keith. Theo Usherwood has been playing a part in the political coverage on the programme and he's here now to queue up the next chapter in this interesting period in british political history. In the next ten minutes, James, we will find out the latest conservative leadership candidate to drop out. And it will be between Michael Gove and Sajid Javid. Now, if rumours of Skulduggery are to be believed, we could expect proxy votes. That's where MP's do not vote in person, but give their vote to a friend or to their campaign team whip to place it on their behalf, to be put from the Boris Johnson camp into the box for Sajid Javid, so that they get rid of Gove. So that they get rid of go. Because Gove is the one Johnson most fears facing in televised two one on one debate. And Gove is the one that Johnson really hates and would like, we understand, hates. A bit strong, isn't it? Well, after what happened, after what happened, after what happened in 2016, Michael Gove, as his deputy and then left in front Trump, left the campaign half, 45%. This is astonishing. And we sometimes gloss over it, I think, because we do it for a living, but as if the situation under which the circumstances through which we're going to have our next prime minister appointed were not unfair and unrepresentative enough. You're now suggesting that even the parliamentary party, members of the parliamentary party, are conspiring to deny the grossly unfair, tiny selectorate who've paid to be members of the conservative party from having a fair choice between two candidates. Because otherwise, how on earth did Rory Stewart go down between the last two counts? Unless people who want Johnson to win voted for him to get rid of Rob? And then also, of course, it excuses you from having called it wrong, because you didn't necessarily accommodate such skullduggery into your analysis. So you're off the hook as well. But now the plan would be give all your votes to Sajid Javid and we'll be waving goodbye to Michael Gove, because Johnson would most like to go up against Hunt in the debates, because Hunt is a little bit poor, perhaps, some might say. Whereas Javid has got his eye as a former banker, he'd quite like to be chancellor. So even in the context of utter unfairness and absence of proper democracy, even then, Johnson's team are still trying to finagle and conspire. So if Johnson gives his votes to Javid, it would be about hurting Michael Gove, about embarrassing and humiliating Michael Gove, because Michael Gove left his campaign, ditched Johnson with 2 hours before Boris Johnson was due to announce his candidacy and his launch his campaign to be prime minister in 2016. After the referendum, Boris Johnson therefore turned up at a central London hotel and said, I'd really like to do this, but I can't because I don't have Dean Doris started crying. Did she? Yes. You've got a better memory than me. I know. It's a curse. And so Dean Dorrie starts crying. Boris Johnson can't launch his campaign and he blames Michael Gove. And now is the chance for revenge, because it would be much greater revenge for Michael Gove to go out at this stage, the humiliation of going out of game to these people. Sadly, Javid makes it through to this evening. But then Boris Johnson would still want to face Jeremy Hunt. And so if there was any doubt about it, they'd lend votes to hunt. So what do you think is going to happen? Prediction. If Boris Johnson decides to lash out and humiliate Gove, then Gove will go now and Javid will go this evening. And then it will be a final two runoff with the membership between Boris Johnson and Jeremy Hunt, which is a foregone conclusion anyway. But if it goes, the possibility of any blood being spilt in the process, if it gets to it, if it makes metaphorical blood, Nigel, don't phone the police. If it gets to the end of that process, mid July, and there is a vote of the membership of 160,000, Boris Johnson wins. If it doesn't get to a vote at that stage, then that would be because Boris Johnson, for some reason, has imploded. Watch this space. Theo Ashwood is going nowhere. I, however, am. And Sheila Ferguson I am.