Why aren't surgeons Drs?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, four minutes after twelve is the time and your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial is upon us. Once again, you know the number by now. You may not know how this works if you are relatively new to the program. It's a rather different hour from the other two. Two 3414 that we spend together every week. 15 if you include the full disclosure podcast, of course. But it's a lot of fun. Someone will ring in with a question to which they believe there must be an answer, and then somebody will ring in with the answer. The only rule is that you're not allowed to be boring. Although to be honest, we've been riding roughshod over that for the longest time and you're not allowed to look anything up because that would make a mockery of the whole practice. It has to be knowledge you have, which means when I say, what are your qualifications? You could say anything from, well, I have a PhD in the relevant subject matter, James, or, oh, I saw it on the telly last night. Yeah, as a prize. These days you get a mystery hour board game, which is a beautiful bit of kit, actually. Lovingly assembled, carefully curated and profoundly entertaining. Fun for all the family. Find out more about the board game at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK dot. Buy it indeed, at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK dot and get the terms and conditions for the competition under which you could win one today by being my favorite contributor at LBC dot co dot UK. And I think that is it, really. The rest you can just suck it and see, as they say, five minutes after twelves of time. Chris is in Bexley, not in Brixham. Chris, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Why is earth represented on maps and globes orientated north up? Why would. What? What? Why wouldn't it be? Well, why is it not south up? Was it not east up? It's all relative, isn't it? We were just floating through space. So who's decided that it's north up? I don't understand the question. So when you look at, say, you go on Google Earth right now, yeah, you go Google Maps. Why is it north up? Why are we looking at it that way? Who's decided that? Oh, well, I mean, whoever did the first maps. Who was that? Well, the map of Mundi in Shrewsbury Cathedral is one of the earliest known maps. I imagine the Sumerians probably had some local maps, but in terms of mapping the whole world, you'll be going pretty much it would depend on the history of naval travel. And therefore it was probably why, if you go to the Far east, they had it east up. If you own the British Museum, I think some of the areas. Well, that's your answer then? That's your answer then, isn't it? So the maps you see are maps from the western hemisphere, the western world. So they've put the north at the top. But if you were, if you'd grown up somewhere else in the world, I mean, it's also the same reason why the United Kingdom is usually smack in the middle of a world map when we go to school. I bet it's not smack in the middle of a world map if you're at school in Ulaanbaator is it's just geographical relativism is what it is. I'll wait for a stewards inquiry. Well, there won't be a steward's inquiry because I haven't given myself a round of applause yet. But what else could it be? Hereford Cathedral, there. That's a stewards inquiry. Not Salisbury Cathedral, Hereford Cathedral, if you want to go and have a look at map of Mundy. So, yeah, I mean, I won't take a round of applause for that, but I would be very surprised if the answer doesn't involve it. Well, it depends on where the map was made. But you're right to point out it's a bit silly because we all think it's some sort of scientific observation, whereas in fact it's just going to be a sort of geographical relativism. So seven minutes after twelve is the time. Thank you, Chris. Just jot that one down. Maps. Dave is in Southampton. Dave, question or answer? Question, please. Yes, I was in Southampton town the other week with my daughter and there sounds like a song. There's a wall that was graffitied by a load of american servicemen before they headed out to fighting D Day. Yes. And my daughter said, why is it called D Day? It's a very good question and I don't know. I think I know the answer to this. But when I tell you what the answer is, we will both think that I must be wrong. Okay, are you ready? I'm ready. You want to know what the D stands for? Yeah, indeed. A stands for day. Really? It's day day. You're definitely right. I do think we must be wrong. Yeah, I told you you would. I think I must be wrong as well. It's day day. Yeah. Okay. And my question becomes, why well, you're not allowed to do that. Unfortunately. I can't remember why. That's why I know. That's why I said that we'll both think I'm wrong because I couldn't remember why it's called day day. But it is. Day deed stands for day day. Right? I think I'm going to take a round of applause. Are you really? Well, I'd like your skepticism, Dave, and frankly. Frankly, I respect it. I respect it. Can I take a little one? Okay, go on. A smattering. Yeah, but I think I'm right. I think I'm right, but, um. Okay, but someone can. I'm gonna allow. I'm gonna bend the rules, Dave, and I'm gonna allow someone to ring in and tell us why it's day day. D day. Well, that's very good of you. For your daughter, really. Not for you. It is. Yeah. Amazing. Nice one, Maisie. Thank you, Dave. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. D day. D day, Dave. That's d Day Dave there in turn. Dave. D day. Day, Dave. It's only me that finds that stuff amusing, isn't it? Jack's in Bedford. Jack. Question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Why do we associate rabbits with eating carrots? Like in fictional stories? Rabbits quite like a carrot. But naturally you don't see rabbits bouncing around in the wild with a bunch of carrots. What a wonderful question. Well, I mean, that's a. I'm gonna go for Beatrix Potter. Yeah, well, I know it definitely comes from fictional stories and things, but what is it about carrots that someone thought, I know a rabbit would love that? Well, Peter Rabbit, that's what I thought. Used to steal. What was the gardener called? Can you remember his name? Oh, I can't. I can't think of the. But what came first? Peter Rabbit or Bugs Bunny? No idea. Probably Peter Rabbit. Yeah, I mean, the cartoons, color television. So I wouldn't be surprised if it all goes back to Peter Rabbit and mister. Mister, mister, mister. Has he got a g in it? Mister? Someone's going to text me in a minute. So that's where it would be. That's. That's where it would be. Yep. But I mean, I can't take that as an answer because I'm thinking out loud, but. So what you will have is story, Mister McGregor. I told you it had a g in it. Mister McGregor. It's what it will be. Thank you to Sam for that. It will be a story that was so popular that the behavior in it, it's a bit like Long John Silver? Yes. And I think that it's all down to one portrayal of Long John Silver by the actor Charles Lawton. That is why we all think that pirates say ARR and talk like that. There's nothing in history to suggest that pirates had that particular way of talking. But Charles Lawton played it that way in one production of Treasure island, and it has become completely omnipresent. In the same way, I think that Peter Rabbit stealing Mister McGregor's carrots has become a sort of omnipresent trope for carrots and rabbits. I do wonder if our pet rabbits, when they see us getting carrots. I think not. For God's sake, not another one. They don't dislike carrots, do they? No, they don't dislike a carrot, but they like the rest of us. They'd like to mix things up a bit. Cucumber, maybe, or maybe some fruit, I don't know. But I like that question. I like that question a lot, Jack. In fact, you are in contention for the board game. Can I also just say another thing quick, before I go? No, not really, no. It's more of a statement to you. Well, less of a question. Okay, then. I don't want to say thank you for talking about mental health on the radio because it's really pushed me to start therapy and that's made a massive difference in my life. Fantastic, Jack. It will only get better. And thank you for saying that out loud as well, because that might reach someone else who'll think, do you know what? Maybe I will make that call. Maybe I will do that thing. Thank you, Robert Newton, not Charles Lawton. Everyone's a bloody pedant today. Thank you, Jack. Steve Benfleet. Question, answer question. James, how are you doing? Very well, Steve. Carry on. My question was, have the northern and southern lights ever met at the equator? It's two questions, very similar. But the map one and this one, I don't. What do you mean? I mean, so, basically, the northern lights obviously came very south last Friday. Yeah? Oh, yeah, they did. Okay, that makes sense. Lanzarote, Landsarote, land row. Yeah. The Canary island. And then obviously, the southern lights, obviously, lesser known, obviously, because there's land mass down there. But I just wonder if there's ever been an event in history where there's been such a big solar storm that actually the northern and southern lights have met at the equator. Wow. Well, actually, that's quite a good question. Now that you've explained it a bit better, could you really see them in Lanzarote? Yeah, there's been photos of. Did you see the people from the mountains? Did you see the fellow who ran out of his house because he could see purple lights in the sky and he ran towards them thinking he was going to see the Aurora borealis and it turned out to be a travel lodge. Nice. It's a true story. You've seen the travel lodges have the purple lighting? No, it's on the BBC. It must be true. Thank you, Andy. The northern lights, southern lights, have they ever met in the middle? Someone should write a song about that. Steve, not Andy. Sorry. Andy's up next. Andy's in Basingstoke. Andy, question or answer? Hi, Jim Ladd. I've got a question for you. It was Robert Newton, not Charles Lawton. I'm glad we've cleared that up. Carry on. Just an easy question, I think. What's the origin of a deck of playing cards? Does it not all start with the tarot? I've no idea. I thought someone had already. I think this is in the board game, Andy. I think someone's already done this one. I haven't got to that question yet, John. I know. I'm not saying you should have done. You can't be expected to read every card in the board game before ringing in, but I'm saying I should be able to remember. I shall try. Yeah. Where do they come from? What is that? Because they're everywhere, aren't they? All over the world. We like that question, even though we think we've already answered it. Andy, you take care. It's 1215 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 I said it was one of those days. Just something happens and you just feel the need to correct every little tiny mistake I make, don't you? Well, it's not big and it's not clever. It was a premier inn, apparently. Emma tells me. John's written Premier Inn, you muppet, not a travel lodge. That's a bit strong, John. It's an easy mistake to make, isn't it? I always get my premier inns mixed up with my travel lodges. But it is, of course, the premier Inn that has the purple branding, as Brian puts it, from Kreef. Funny the stuff you pick up on, isn't it? I ask, like, really important, serious questions and I get but kiss in my inbox and then I accidentally misgender a travel lodge as a premier inn and you all over me like a rash. It's absolutely ridiculous. And there's no need for a Stuart's inquiry. Let's get back to it. I like that question about carrots and rabbits. I have to say, I don't know why that one has tickled me so much. Why do we always say, I mean, rabbits like radishes? A few people are telling me that Peter Rabbit was more of a radish and a lettuce fan than a carrot fan. So it may not be that this one goes back to Beatrix Potter. Why do we always associate carrots with rabbits? What is the D in D day? I've kind of answered that, but we are happy to take a stronger answer. Why do our maps always have the north at the top and have the northern lights and the southern lights ever met? And where do playing cards come from? What's the origin of playing cards? Modern playing cards? Tony's in Shepperton. Tony, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on, Tony. So Sunday is the last day of the Premier League football season. Yes. It can only be won by either Arsenal or Man City. They're both playing at the same time and they're both playing at home. So 200 miles apart, after the game, the trophy will be presented to the team who's won the Premier League. I can see where you're going with this. I can see where you're going with this trophy during the game. What's the logistics of getting it to the right ground at the right time? I can't tell you that at this point, but I can tell you that when Kidderminster Harriers played West Ham in the FA cup season before last, the FA cup was at Kidderminster Harriers. Was it? Yeah. They can't. We haven't really got the facilities. So it was in a sort of little annex off the kitchen and you could go in and have your photograph. You could go in and have your photograph taken with proper security guards. They were quite. They were quite moody, actually, that they weren't armed or anything, but you certainly wouldn't be able to pick it up and do a pose with it or anything like that. Helicopters, maybe? Do you think helicopters. Do you think they keep it smack in between the two grounds? So it's at the Etihad City or at the Etihad or arsenal at home? Yes. So it's unique. What's smack in between. What's smack in between Manchester and London? Birmingham. So it occurred to me it could be one or two things. Go on. There's a helicopter. There's a helicopter in Birmingham and it goes to the appropriate ground, although landing a helicopter at a football ground, while there's a match on, is probably not that straight. That's very true. That's very true. The other possibility is there's two trophies, but I don't know, they have a kind of trophy. Trophy like. That's probably it, isn't it? A dummy trophy is more likely than a helicopter because, as you say, where are they going to land a helicopter? A lot of people on the. On the inbox are saying helicopter, but as you say, where are you going to land it? They can't drop it out of a helicopter, lower it to the ground, can they, in the car park or something? Well, you'd see it happening. You'd think there would be footage, things live on tv. There'd be a sort of, as you say, there'd be a box being lowered down onto the center of the pitch or something spectacular. Let's be honest, Tony, they might as well just leave it in Manchester. Yeah, but you know, that's not. I mean, what are the odds? Isn't it? What are the odds? It is quite a big gabbit. And of course, on other days it might not be, you know, if it could be, if they were equal on points, it would be much more of a conundrum. I like that. Okay, you're on. Where will the cup be at kick off on Sunday? Because they all kick off at exactly the same time. The jeopardy is magnificent on the last day of the season. Thank you, mate. I like that question. Margaret's in Soho. Margaret, question or answer? An answer, please. Carry on, Margaret. Okay. It's about the maps. Oh, yes. Okay. He was asking about why maps are generally north south. Yes. As opposed to east west. Well, the maps that we see. Well, maps, generally speaking, if you want a world map, map of the entire globe, a wall map, you know, projecting a 3d image onto a 2d surface is going to have its own issues. But anyway, generally the earth spins about its axis, so you want your equator in the middle. And, I mean, the point he was making about why is it going through Europe as opposed to any other part of the surface? Well, of course, it's our maritime history. The Greenwich meridian is zero degrees, so that's the set sets of time for the world. It was very nearly Paris, was it very nearly coated in Paris many years ago? But. But it universally been accepted that Greenwich is the prime meridian. So you would have. So you'd have your navigation going degrees east or degrees west. And it would make sense if you have it making a wall map, to have your dateline in the middle of the Pacific, because it's not cutting down through major land masses where the population is, it's just open ocean and a few atolls. So. So for the purposes of a wall map, that would make sense where you split your map if you wanted to make a wall map. So it's got more to do with the Greenwich meridian than anything else? Yes, because if. Because. And the empire and the way that we spread our kind of stuff all over the world. What would a map in Saudi look like? What would a map in Saudi. What would a map in Saudi Arabia look like? Or do we know? Well, it depends on the scale. You know, if you can look at the earth and if you can try and imagine it as a series of maps of just post it notes stuck on it all over, depending on the scale. No, I get it. Qualifications. Yep, yep. I used to be a cartographer back in the day, but also that. This thing about north south. Yes. The earth, is because we have a molten iron core, pretty much, that acts as a dynamo as we spin, which. It makes us like one gigantic magnet, which is why we get. I would get the aurorae at the poles, because that's. It's solar particles that are reacting with the earth's atmosphere at the poles, so. But the magnetic north is a move of all. Feast. We're going a little bit off piece now, Margaret. Yeah, yeah. You have actually answered the question, and this is the most popular feature on british radio, so there are an awful lot of people waiting to contribute. I mean, I'm personally fascinated. Right, okay. But just saying that sometimes North Pole. The magnetic poles flip. Yes. And they have done many times throughout time. Throughout the earth's history. Time history, yes. So sometimes it. You know. When did you cease to be a cartographer? Oh, many years ago. I used to make maps for the air force. How exciting. I can only offer you a round of applause. I feel that you deserve more, Margaret, but there it is. Thank you. Thank you. Engine is in Catford. Engine. Question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. I'm not actually sure how to ask the question. Well, let's just try. Let's just try. So, basically, I was in hospital last week for. I've got a problem with my spine. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's okay. I've had it for a few years. Oh, dear. So, I had an appointment with what I thought was a doctor. Yeah, but he was a surgeon. Yeah. So I kind of want to know, what's the difference between us? Not the job, as such. But how comes a surgeon isn't a doctor? A surgeon is a doctor. Apparently not. Well, actually rang up. I actually rang up a couple days ago to make a tweak with my appointment. Yeah. I asked for doctor and in his name. Yeah. And she said mister. I said no doctor. She kept saying mister. Yeah, but that's like a promotion. So once you become a consultant, and in this case a surgeon and a consultant, you become known as mister. But why? I mean, surely it's a promotion. No, no, no, no. It's weird, but it's just true. I would respect you more if you were Doctor James O'Brien. As opposed to mister James O'Brien. Yeah, well, you go mister. Doctor mister. It's weird. But remember that if you're in a hospital environment, everyone's a doctor except the misters. So the misters are senior to the doctors. It's a specialist doctor. So, I mean. Well, I'm not here to justify it, engine. I'm here to explain it. I'm trying to understand it. I'm trying to understand it because otherwise, how would you know who would the consultants were if everyone was still a doctor? Well, because I'm more nervous about having someone going into my spine that's a mister rather than a doctor. But then you're being silly. Because he's a senior doctor, you become a consultant, you get called mister. It's a. It's a respect. It's a more senior assignation, I would assume, because mister is everyone. No, it's not. It's not. It's not the doctors. It's not the. So look, there's only two types of doctor in a hospital, right? The doctors and the misters. And the misters are senior to the doctors even though they're doctors. I don't. I get it. But I don't get it. No, you get it, but you don't like it. I'm not here to make you happy. I'm here to enlighten you. That's exactly what he said to me. Is it? Well, because I. He offered me. I asked for an alternative to surgery. He said, you just want me to make it go away. Yes. Yeah, but you don't want me to fix it. I see. So all. No, so. So all surgeons would be mister, right? So that. I mean, that is, it might go back and I don't know about this because it certainly. This wouldn't explain it. Now, don't be nervous. I promise you the mister is more senior to the doctor. All right? Full stop, hand on heart. Okay? But if you were to go back to the sort of 17th century. Yeah. The doctors were the ones that had all the learning, even though most of it was rollocks. They used to, like, analyze your urine and take blood from leeches, and they'd do you a horoscope before they did an operation on you. And they were the ones that were the, you know, the physics. They were called the physics that would prescribe. They were basically the architects or the engineers. And then the builder is the surgeon. No, no, because the surgeon was an inferior position. Usually a barber would double up as a surgeon. They were called barber surgeons. So I suspect that the roots of this. I'm making it even more confusing just because I can. I suspect the roots of this go back to when the barber surgeon was the inferior to the doctor. So the mister was an inferior to the doctor. But because medicine has evolved and the surgeon has become a much more specialized practitioner than the. Than the doctor, the mister has sustained, even as the mister has overtaken the doctor. That is one of the best answers I've ever given. I really hope it's true. I was honestly sitting there thinking, like, how are you actually saying this stuff out? Do you actually know? Are you just getting it? No. I know that bit about doctors because it features in a book that I'm reading at the moment, the barber surgeons and the physics, as they would have been called. I'm reading about the Queen Elizabeth. I had a portuguese doctor physick, not surgeon, who was assassinated. Not assassinated. Executed as a consequence of a sort of made up assassination plot. But the. But the barber, someone needed their leg chopping off. That would be a barber surgeon. So the. So the medics that followed an army would be more barber surgeons than actual doctors. The doctors were a more academic and rarefied grouping. I've got this a bit wrong in terms of you'll have non surgical consultants who are doctors. So. Surgical consultants. So I don't know the real all of it, but I know for a fact that your surgeon is a hyper qualified doctor. Not. Not less qualified. They studied more than. Yes. Yes. Right. Okay. So you should. You. You can put yourself in his hands. Well, that's what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to ring back to. Because I chickened out of the surgery. I think female. You've chickened out of the surgery because you thought he was a junior person. No, it's my spine. Right. Yeah. Well, it is risky. They want to shave my spine, basically, so. Holy moly. Well, good luck. Yeah, good luck. Cheers. When I said barber surgeon. I didn't mean that sort of shaving that, obviously. I know, but you actually gave me sweat as you were saying. Yeah, I bet I did. I wouldn't have said that if I'd known the full details of your prognosis, mate. Obviously. I just sort of waded in there with my 17th century historical knowledge. Well, good luck. Let us. Let us know how you get on, won't you? I will do. I've actually won the board game previously, so I might bail up while I'm in hospital. That's a great idea. Take it on the ward. I said take it on the war. Get everyone involved. Spread the word. Take care. Engine 1231 is the time. Amelia Cox has your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1234 is the time. Time. We've done the maps D day needs kind of. Why is D day. It's called day day. Well, just explain it. Why do rabbits and carrots go together like horse and carriage? Have the northern lights and the southern lights ever met in the middle? What's the origin of playing cards? And on Sunday, where will the actual cup be when Arsenal and Manchester City start their games at opposite ends of the country with only those two clubs capable of lifting it at full time? I got a lot of the doctor stuff wrong. A lot flipping out. Who knew so many doctors were listening? No wonder the waiting list for so long. So that is. So you start off from a bad position there, having offended all the doctors who've got in touch to tell me the mistake and then I've insulted them even more by pretending that them having the radio on in the background is somehow a cause of waiting list. But it was also quite funny, wasn't it? Who knew so many doctors were listening to the program? No wonder the waiting lists are so long. But the central bit was right. The bit, you know, addressing engines question was actually correct. So I don't think that we need a crash course in who gets called Mister misses Doctor Doctor. I don't think we do. But, you know, only time will tell, so my apologies for that. I obviously got it very. A lot of it run also women surgeons. I just. Doesn't matter. But what engine needed to know, he now knows. Stu's in Plymouth. Stu. Question or answer? Hello, James. I've got an answer for you on D Day. Thank you, Stu. Carry on. Right. You're right, the D does stand for day. But that's not the reason why it's called D Day. And when you're doing military planning for operations, you have to have. Or we use something called a sync matrix, which is queuing up different units that have different objectives to achieve certain things in time and space. Yes. So the landings were going to happen on that day, the 6 June. So that was D day. Yes. Say for example, they needed to leave the southern coast of Uk a day before D day. That would be d minus day. Well, no, just d minus one. Just d minus one, yeah. And we also have things called h hours. If we had to land on the beaches at 07:00, that would be h hour. We have to leave the ships at 06:00 that'd be h minus one and so on. So it's all to do with planning, getting things queued up to happen at a certain time, at a certain location to ensure that the operation runs smoothly and to time and t as well. T for time, as you say. T, d and H. Yeah, yeah. So this, this one just became so. So every operation happens on D day. Yeah, exactly. Everything that we. This one just became so iconic and so significant. So operation. It's Operation Overlord, isn't it? Isn't that. Yeah, yeah. It's huge. I mean, to put six divisions ashore, I've been involved in planning and putting a. About a battle group of shores, about 600 troops, and we had things like Excel spreadsheets and what have you that we could use to do the planning. How they put six divisions, just like nothing more than a chalkboard, is absolutely incredible without Excel spreadsheets. But the reason why it has become known as D Day, despite every operation being D Day, is because of its iconic status. Yeah, I think so. Just because it's such an iconic, as you say, iconic and such a huge undertaking that it just got known and it's probably pushed in the press. Is that. Yeah, exactly that. Exactly that, yeah. Qualifications. Former soldier involved in military planning in the past. That'll do nicely. Well played, stu. Nice one. Also, you know, I was right. I can't help it. Sorry, Ian's in Birmingham. Ian, question or answer? Answer, sir. Carry on, Ian. The reason that surgeons are called mister, you were mostly right. Thank you. I'll let you off. It's extreme pretentiousness is the short answer, but as you quickly stated, that surgeons were developed separately from physicians and the medics didn't like us very much and didn't think we were proper doctors. Correct. This is back to the profession. Back to the barber surgeon era. Exactly. And so in the late 19th century, when we became one profession, surgeons in the UK retained the title mister to keep themselves separate. And to be pretentious about it. So they sort of turned the snobbery back on itself, almost. Well, good. That's it. You know, I worked that out live on the radio and because of the book that I'm reading at the moment, and precisely that snobbery that I'm reading about. But I had no idea it was. It was true. I sold it to engine anyway because it was only Enjin, you know, believe any old two, but it was actually true all along. Back then, they were all men, so mister was easy. These days, about 50% of my colleagues are female. Most of them go by miss. A few like misses and miss, but I let them have whatever they prefer. And there's no. It's not hierarchical, it's different branches of. So the bits I got wrong include the idea that you are senior to doctors. Indeed. It's just you are a surgeon, and so a lot of people think it goes with being a consultant. No, I got that wrong as well. When you pass the MRCs, the membership exam, which will be. Shos will take that exam before they become registrars. So all the registrars in surgery will generally be mister or miss. Yeah. And then you have to pass a fellowship exam which enables you to become a consultant. Fantastic. That was a beautiful answer. Qualifications. I am a fellow with the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. I had a feeling that you might be. Round of applause for Ian, please. No, thank you. Cleared all that up in one single call. That was fantastic. Deborah's in Liverpool. Deborah, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So, during the pandemic, I watch back to back episodes of call the midwife. Okay? So when women were in the latter stages of labour. Yeah. And they were not one that they were told not to push. Right. They were told to pant. Yeah. And I don't understand why panting stops you pushing, because even sitting here now, if I pant gone, it reduces my inclination to push. Not that I'm pregnant. No. But haven't you just answered your own question? Well, no, you just said that panting reduces your inclination to push and they don't want you to push. But why? Why don't they want you to push? No. Why does it. Why does panting do that? What goes on within the body? Well, it's not what's going on within the body, is it? It's pushing involves clenching, doesn't it? So you take a breath. No, it is not. You take a breath. Right, now breathe in. Have you ever been pregnant? Oh, yes, several times. So you take a breath and then you. I mean, I'm comparing it to doing a poo. I don't know if this is helpful or not, Deborah, but you take a breath and then you push. But if you're doing panting, you can't push. So I think you've answered your own question. I don't think I have. I think. Not at all. No. Well, no, because you mentioned clenching and clenching is opposite to pushing. It's not, though, is it? You're pushing like that. It's not. You're pushing now. Push. And now. I'm trying. I'm trying to breathe now. No. No, you're wrong. I want to know and I won't accept your response. And I don't think I've answered my own question. I want to know what in the body. What reflects what medical thing happened. That means. That means when you're panting, which is in the upper part of the respiratory system, prevents you from pushing when you're in labor. Okay? There you go. Okay. I think the answer is clenching. It can't be clenching, otherwise you wouldn't get the baby out, would you? But you have to stop pushing at some point so that the baby doesn't. You. You pant. Does that make you clench? I don't know. I. Why has David said, go on, James, do your favourite joke. What would my. What would my favorite joke be at this point in proceedings? I hate it when people think they know I know. You've got no idea. I've got no idea either. I hate it when people think they know the show better than I do. Anyway. Why? Why does panting stop you pushing when you're giving birth and it doesn't cause you when you push? You don't clench? All right, I leave. Let's forget about the clenching. I think we've got a different definition of clench, Deborah. Well, I am currently mansplaining. I am mansplaining how to have a baby at the moment. This is a new low. This is a new low. This is a new low for me. Deborah, just out of interest, how many children have you had? Two. All right, you win. Okay. Twelve, four, 30. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Gareth is in Watford. Gareth. Question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, mate. First of all, just want to just thank you for being the voice of reason for these last kind of seven or eight years. Thank you, mate. I was a right idiot before that. That's very kind of you. I'm very grateful. That's the mushy part over it's. The answer regarding the Premier League trophy. Oh, yes. Good. There will. There can be. There can be up to three. Whoa. Three. Three trophies. One which will be the real one. Yes. And two dummy trophies. So they will exactly. Exactly the same. But the real trophy at this present time will be at Man City in a nice big Louis Vuitton box and another one will be at Arsenal in a nice big Louis Vuitton box. So there'll be two trophies at each grand. I know this because being a Watford supporter, really, there's a non sequitur if ever I've heard one. Yeah, I know. Because there was an instance where when Watford were promoted back in 2015 and Bournemouth were promoted at the same time. So it all came down to the final game of the season as to who would win the trophy. Watford needed a win and all Bournemouth had to do was win as well to claim to go up as champions. Now, the real trophy was at Watford and I know this because I saw it. Oh, cool. The ribbons were on the trophy. The name was just about to be engraved. Then Sheffield Wednesday went and scored a last minute equalizer. So instead of winning the game, Watford drew the game, finished second, Bournemouth got the dummy trophy, went up as champions. And you know that because the real trophy was where you were. Yeah. That's a really lovely answer. I have to ask this, even though I already know qualifications. I'm a football fan. That pays attention. There we go. Round of applause for Gareth. Happy days. Just. Thank you, Gareth. Just to clarify from Susan, when you're doing your pelvic floor exercises, that's clenching and that's not what you do when you're pushing out a baby. Thank you, sue. Every day's a school day mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. I don't know how I feel about this, Tony, actually. I mean, in many, many ways I'm very happy for you. But on the other hand, I think that you got a bargain. An unjustifiable bargain. Tony's been in touch. I just purchased the mischievous board game at a car boot sale for two pounds. James, I was well chuffed. I'm not surprised you were well chuffed. That's an absolute result. That's about. Crikey. I bet there's cards missing though. And hopefully a few pieces as well, frankly, because you shouldn't be able to secure that. Probably someone died, actually. I can't imagine any other circumstances in which you would want to surrender your. Your mystery outboard game probably got picked up at some sort of, you know, sort of sad, sad sale, you might call it. I don't know. 1249 is the time. I've still got a few questions that need answers. Vicky's in Northampton. Vicky, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Okay. It's an answer to the question of pushing or panting when you're giving birth. Vicki, I'm going to be quiet for a while, okay? Oh, gosh, that piles the pressure on me. Okay. Like I'm not nervous enough already. I'll interrupt you if I think you need it, but I will not be doing it for my own purposes. Thank you. So this is the difference between a voluntary and an involuntary push. So when you're giving birth and you're almost at the point of the baby being born, the baby will put pressure on parts of the body that will elicit an involuntary response. So it's possible for women still to be pushing, even though they don't think they are. And often, as a midwife, when you say, did that feel a little bit pushy? They look a bit frightened and say, no, but you can see and hear that that's happening. So the difference between pushing and panting is because when somebody is directed to push, when they're told to push, they will take a deep breath and put their chin on their chest, and that makes their pushes much more forceful. So you are asked to pants because it stops the glottis in your body closing. Cleansing. Yes. So the part of your upper airway remains open and you can breathe through it, rather than holding your breath and pushing down. So it means that the baby is descending under less pressure and less force and in a more gentle way, which is thought to be unless there's a real emergency. It's definitely preferable for that to be a more gentle process when it's reached a certain point. Yeah, absolutely. Like the final. The home straight, as it were, Vicky? Yeah, absolutely. Beautiful answer. And I think that I now feel less embarrassed about my mansplaining earlier because I didn't. I don't think I embarrassed myself. Did I particularly? No, no, absolutely not. But there's definitely a difference between voluntary and that's the crucial bit that was missing. That's the crucial bit that was. That's a beautiful answer. What are your qualifications, please? I was a midwife for ten years and did a lot of hospital and home, birthday. Can't say fairer than that. Round of applause for Vicky, please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Vanessa is in Wokingham. Vanessa, question or answer? Well, it's an answer, but you've already had one answer, but I'm questioning that answer in a way. I mean, he was right. Okay, listen, I don't want to make any sexist presumptions here. How many military operations have you planned? Well, none so far, but. Good answer. Good answer. Carry on. Well, D day means the day that's important in English or in American, probably in Anglo Saxon, but in other countries, like in France, and I speak French, d day is jour, which is day g, which is j. So it's j je. So you're just showing off. I don't think this is relevant to the question that we're answering at all. You're just showing off your polyglot nature. Well, no, because he was trying to explain what D Day was. It was as if it's a worldwide typical british, you know, that everybody uses it, but they don't. If it's a special day, like we always say, you know, d day is when I'm going to tidy the house. So it's d Day that day. But that comes from the military planning. Yeah, yeah, but then they don't say D day in French and they must have had military planning. And I know what the French do, and this is important because it doesn't. It's not universal in France. They'll say it's Georgie, that the olympic flame is coming on the. Well, it has already come into France now and it's well on its way. But that is the important day. So it's the day that something happens. And it is in other languages, too, because your interviewer or your producer. She did. Did she flip it? Yeah, she looked it up in other languages because she didn't believe. And she used Google translate, which is hopeless. If you have to look of the show a, you're not supposed. Why is the producer using Google? No one's allowed to use Google during this time. No, no, no, because she had to substantiate what I was saying because I knew I was. She substantiated. Well, you sound like me now. What do you mean, you knew? You were right. I've still got no idea what you're talking about. I don't know why. I'm tired. I've had a long day. I'm excited about the Rajars, you know, I just. There's a lot going on. I've got no idea what's going. I've got to go to Glasgow after this. I'm on stage there tomorrow night. Well, now, you know, if you have to speak French and you want to say it d day. You have to say, George. But the question was, why was D day called D Day? Well, because it was the important day that day. That's not true. It was called D Day because all military operations take place on D Day. Yeah, because every day is a D. If you want to. Like I'm saying, you know, if you want to decorate the house on the 28 May. Why are you talking to me about decorating the house, Vanessa? Because it's the important day that something starts. That's what I mean. So, in French, they would say, you know, the military operation that's going to, I don't know, kill Napoleon or whatever is Georges. Okay, I'm going to give you a round of applause because I sound as if I don't. We'll be here forever. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you for everything you do. You're very. You keep us going. You do. You do. You really do. You're so kind. Thank you. No, but mercy. In fact, boku Prataps in Islington. Pratap. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. And an answer that has taken me 75 attempts to get through for. It's for the question on playing cards. Yes. So, the current deck, as we know it, originated around the middle Ages, from the France. And it is thought that the four suits were generally thought to represent the four different classes of society back then. Really? Clergy, the military, farming and trade, or merchant class. Okay. But then, within that, the four suits also represent the four seasons. And within each suit, the 13 different ranks represents the lunar cycles in a year. And then we have 52 weeks qualifications. Years ago, I was doing research for an Alice in Wonderland dinner. And one of the courses was the queen of hearts army of playing card soldiers. So, a researcher on that led me down a rabbit hole. So it's quite confident in Dallas in Wonderland. The rabbit hole. Yeah. No. Round of applause for Prato. Anyway, it's very complicated. I think tarot had something to do with it as well. Maybe. I don't know. Jonathan's in Ashford. Jonathan. Question or answer? Good afternoon, James. And answer to the rabbit one, please. Oh, yes. Be still, my beating heart. Okay, so, of course, you're right, but Beatrix Potter spent a long time observing nature and the garden and the land around her, including her father, stroke brother. Stroke. Her vegetable garden. Yes. If. When I was studying horticulture, one of the chapters was pests and diseases. Oh, yes. And I love wildlife, by the way. But for horticulturists, rabbits belong to the category of pests. And diseases, pests and diseases. And rodents have a preferential taste for carrot tops, which, of course, is highly destructive. Because if they take the top off the carrot. Carrot rock. And they work. Exactly. So, Beatrice boss, a great observer of nature, as we know from her cottage in the Lake district, not where all that sewage got pumped into that mirror. Oh, don't, please. Separate topic. Forget. She will have looked at that and thought, okay, you know, there will have been a folklore around. Yes, if we had time, we could dig up the folklore on farmers carrots being particularly, particularly vulnerable. Do they really like brassicas? Yes. Yes. And there's a whole list of. And we think that she started it, we think, because that was such a popular story, that the relationship between rabbits and carrots fell into popular parlor. If I hadn't been on hold for so long, I could have got out some of my historic gardening books and checked to see how long, whether any of them predate. But I think we'll find that in you. How dare you leave. Jonathan could have got out some of his historic gardening books if you hadn't kept him on hold for so long with Vanessa banging on about journey g or something. Sorry. I really love you also. I love you, too. Qualifications? Retired horticulturalist. And you're not retired at all. You may no longer be doing it for money, Jonathan, but a horticulturalist never hangs up his hoe. You've made me very happy. Round of applause for Jonathan. There we go. Beautiful answer. Thank you. Oof. That's it for another day. I'm giving it to Vicky the midwife. It was close. It was going to be Jack with the question about rabbits and carrots. But I felt that. I felt that Vicky saved me from the accusation of having tried to mansplain childbirth to a woman, which I did do. But it turns out I was right and she was wrong. That's it for me for another day. We'll be doing it all again tomorrow morning from ten. If you missed any of today's show, you can. Well, you can listen back on catch up, you can go for a walk, put your feet up, relax. Absolutely. I don't mind. Have a drink. I'm easy. If you missed today's show, that's fine. You can listen on catch up on Global Player, the official LBC app, where you can also pause and rewind live radio. Download now for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com, comma. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Swarbrick. But now it's time for the Rajar queen. Well, not quite. I'm still chasing your tale, Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much, James.