Who invented calories?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. It is mystery out, and it's also a mystery out after a 15 minutes section where we didn't take any calls, which means that the switchboard is not full before it even starts. Because I didn't remind you before the news, the mystery hour was just around the corner. Take that as a call to arms. If you have a question that needs an answer, call in now. But don't be boring. That's the only rule. So if it's a question that no one else is going to be interested in hearing the answer to, think long and hard before inflicting it upon the rest of us will be politely invited by whoever picks up the phone to move along. If you're not entirely familiar with this feature, then modesty aside, I think you're in for a bit of a treat. It's great fun. We almost always have a laugh out loud moment. In fact, I used to guarantee a laugh out loud moment during mystery. I never broke that guarantee. I just forgot to keep making the guarantee. There's no big conspiracy there. Who? Why? What, where? When? Whither, wherefore, whence? Why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's that all about? It can be clever. It could be really, really silly as well, if you want. I like to think all human life is here in mystery hour. It's also, historically the part of the program in which one is most likely to get the greatest accolade that british radio can bestow upon a listener and or caller, which is, of course, a Ray Lyotta award, which you will receive if your qualifications for answering a question that somebody else has asked are unbelievably apposite. So if it is a question about Sandwich toasters, and you invented the sandwich toaster, then you will get a ray Liotta as well as the mystery, our round of applause, which is itself a fairly shiny honor, although we dish them out every week. Rayliotters. But I don't think we've had one yet this week, haven't we? And it's Thursday already, so last week we had two or three in 1 hour. It was such an astonishment, because it doesn't just happen on Mistria. If we're having a conversation about. I'm going to come up with really bad examples now. So we're having conversation about policing, like we did in the first hour, a specific area of policing, and somebody who rings in, who actually wrote the rule book for that specific area of policing, or who is currently the most senior police officer in the country with responsibility for that specific area of policing. They too would get a Rayleigh otter. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you do know the answer, then the number remains the same. Ring in and answer it. I'll ask you what your qualifications are, but don't be intimidated, because you could quite easily answer that by saying, I saw it on telly last night, I saw it on David Attenborough, or I saw it on Mythbusters, whatever it may be. Equally, it could be a very serious and impressive qualification. So you might reply by saying to me, for example, that you have a PhD in the relevant subject area, or that you're the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, who is actually the most decorated mystery hour contributor of all time, and who, more often than not, will pop up in the course of the final hour of Thursday's show. With me here on LBC. Should we just crack on? Is Gary ready? Gary, question or answer? Hi, James. First, I just want to say thanks again for my copy of the book. Have you read it yet? Yeah, I'm working one way through it. I'm definitely wondering if I can get a minute with the kids. Not interrupting. Nice one. Cheers, mate. Thanks, James. I wanted to know when calories were first discovered. Calories as in diet? Why? Because you are people. People might be finding this all a little bit cozy. Gary is one of the listeners to the program that I've come over the years to consider a friend. And our paths have crossed in, outside the radio studio. So I can tell you that he pays rather more attention to his physique than what I do. I spend so much time counting calories. I was just wondering when, you know, obviously we've got the average, you know, intake for female. I'm just wondering whether, when it was first discovered, really, and before the discovery, how would you go on a diet? Well, yeah, this is it. I don't genuinely mean that, because, I mean, women famous in the 1920s for the thinness of their waists and the tininess of their corsetry, but how would they know how to lose weight without knowing how much calories they were consuming? You're on. It's on. It's on the list. And a good example. Cheers, mate. Take it easy and thank you for the kind words. It's a. It's a good example of a question that speaks to something that we all recognize but very few of have ever stopped to wonder about again. So when, when were calories discovered and or invented or introduced into public discourse? Neeraz is in Watford. Question or answer Neeras its a question. Please James, carry on. So I was wondering how come you get more mashed potato out of sweet potatoes than regular baking potatoes if you have the exact same quantity? What do you mean? So to put into context, I make cottage pies quite regularly. Yeah. I like a cottage pie. For you to be able to make a cottage bar, you need to mash up some potatoes. So I used to make it with regular baking potatoes. A white potato. White potato. Yeah. So your regular starchy sort of potatoes. I used to buy kgs worth of and to kind of keep it fair, I used to keep it, you know, make it in a regular casserole dish. The same casserole dish I've always used. Yes. And then I've switched to kind of being a bit healthier. So making that with sweet potatoes, using the same casserole dish, buying a kg worth of sweet potatoes. But I always seem to get less mash out of it, out of the sweet potatoes. Out of the sweet potatoes. So you get less coverage of the mince when you've got a kilo of sweet potatoes mashed up than you do when you've got a kilo of white potatoes. Absolutely. I think you've answered your own question. I think one word you've used possibly has answered your own question here. What's that? Starchy possibly. But I didn't know that would actually make an actual, it must have something to do with air, mustn't it? Because they're probably going to still weigh the same, aren't they, if you were to weigh this. So it's just volume that's increased, which is going to have more to do with the consistency than the nutritional content. Yeah. Also gelato. I don't know why I said that. Ice cream. Yeah. But it's not, it's a difference between gelato and ice cream that I think might be part of the difference between a potato and a sweet potato. Right. But I'm really going out there now neeras yes. I think we need to come back onto the mainstream and just concentrate on the potatoes and leave the frozen goodies and treats out of it. Right. I'll try and find out. I love this question. Why do a kilo of sweet potatoes make rather less mashed potato than a kilo of mashed white potatoes? Zero 345-606-0973 I told you, you could ask anything on this program that's calories and potatoes. It's got quite a food related flavour today, Cameron is in leads. Cameron, question or answer? Hi, it's a question, go on. I'd like to know how you can undercook. What do you think? What is this? It's not. I'm not Delia Smith, mate. This is a cookery hour, Steve Allen will probably call it tomorrow. Dave O'Brien's cookery hour on LBC. Carry on. Genuine question, though. How can you undercook beef but you can't undercook chicken or pork? Salmon. Is this bacteria? Yeah, but why doesn't beef contain bacteria, then? And you can, you can, but it just does. It just doesn't mate. Okay, I think that's it. Yeah. I mean, that's it. I mean, pork is, for a whole variety of reasons, the Internet's full of clips and photographs. So you're saying that raw beef doesn't contain any bacteria? I don't know whether it contains any bacteria or not, but it's not going to harm you in the way that raw chicken probably would. Okay, so that's it. Well, you've answered the question. I think I have, I think I have. If anyone else can answer it more authoritatively, I shall of course allow them on, but in the meantime. Okay, that's for me. My. There you go, Cameron. Thank you very much. Mark, is it? Do you ever get asked anything else about how you'd like to have it cooked except a steak? Say that again, James. There's nothing. I thought you'd gone. Actually, I was thinking out loud, but it's always slightly unnerving when someone replies when I'm thinking out loud. But I was just thinking there is nothing else. Whether you're where you're asked how you would like it to be cooked or prepared, is there? Except steak question so you go to a restaurant and they never come up to you, if you order pork, they say, you know, do you want it medium or. No, they don't. Yeah. No, they never would. But I think that's because pork and chicken have to be cooked to a certain point, you know, and you wouldn't want it cooked any more than that because it'd be overcooked, you wouldn't want it cooked any less than that because it would be bad for you. So you have no choice. But with state, you do and it must be because of salmonella in the case of chicken, presumably something similar in the case of pork. Thank you, mate. Mark is in Horsham in West Sussex. Mark, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Carry on. In 1859, the Carrington event happened. It was a massive solar flare which knocked out the telegraph system. If that was to happen again today, how much notice would we have? How much time between the event taking place and us knowing about it? Would we have? I don't know anything about what you've just said, but you sound like a man of knowledge. So the Carrington event was a solar flare so intense that it. It knocked out the telegraph system, which was the nearest thing at the time that we had to a communications network. Spot on. And if it happened today, it would be akin to an electromagnetic pulse and we would lose everything. Are you sure? Fairly sure, yeah. And these things happen. So how predictable are they, is the question? Fairly predictable. But we need to be in alignment. We need to get. Have a direct hit, is my understanding of that. Okay, well, I mean, we just need to be honest, mate. I'm going to struggle to find anyone who knows more about this than you already do. I just take an interest. You're sounding like an expert, so I need someone to be more expert than you. And you already know a heck of a lot more about it than most people listening. Absolutely. Well, it'll be interesting to see if anyone comes on. And I'm very excited because I'm popping out to the shop now to buy your book. I must warn you, you can have too much of a good thing. Warning taken. Thank you very much. Let's find an answer for him. How much warning would we get off a forthcoming Carrington event? There's a presumption of knowledge there that I do not have. But you will need, obviously, in order to answer this question. Lamb and duck, of course, you can have those cooked differently as well. Sorry, I mean, the question was about why chicken and pork can't. So it's always going to be about bacteria and disease. It's coming up to 12:15. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Questions in need of an answer. Include that one of remarks about the Carrington event. How much warning would we get? I like the mashed potato question. Don't get sniffy and snobby about it. I really like that. Food technology, food science, these are important issues that children should be learning more about. Why does a kilo of white potatoes yield more mashed potato than a kilo of sweet potatoes? Zero. 345-606-0973 and when were calories discovered, introduced or simply injected into the mainstream of public understanding the best of James O'Brien. Don't ring in to say steak tartare. That just proves the point we've already made. But it is clogging up the phone line somewhere. Or carpaccio, actually. Similarly, I think, would be a dish that could be loosely described as raw beef. The question was more about why you don't eat raw chicken. Some dishes. There is a minced pork dish that's popular in some parts of the world. I just presume they make it so fresh that there is no time whatsoever for the bacteria to take place. If you just tuned in, you're probably wondering, what on earth is going on? I'm not going to tell you. Paul's in Crawley. Paul, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on, Paul. And it's not. It's not a foodie one. Oh, good. But, James, when they build these tunnels, like, for example, the cross rail tunnel. Yeah. I'm sure you and your wisdom can answer this. When they build these tunnels, what do they do with all that soil, all that groundwork that comes out? And why can't that be used to, you know, where we have these cliffs falling down on the coast? Yes. Why can't that soil be used? That ground would be used to stop all that. To stop all those cliffs falling down. I think the short answer to the second bit of the question would be that it would just wash away. If you just dropped loose soil or rocks somewhere, it would just wash away in terms of cliffs. And I can answer the first question, actually, with one of my favorite bits of London trivia, but it's not going to be specific to Crossrail. I don't know if that's going to be a problem for you. I'm just curious what happens to all that when they dig up stuff? They generally try to relocate it in somewhere that would have a benefit or. Not far from where I live, I always get mixed up between the m four and the M 40. What's the one that goes out of west London, out of Hounslow, out of downtown? It's the m 40, isn't it? You go up the M 40, out of town, there are some perfectly shaped hills, which I think were put there when they dug out Wembley Stadium. So they've sort of made a little country park type event. But my all time favorite example of this is, do you know what the relationship is between St Catherine's dock just beneath Tower bridge? Yeah, I know where he is. And Pimlico. No, I don't. Pimlico was marshy marshland up until the point at which St Catherine's dock was dug out and they took all the soil and rubble from St Catherine's dock and took it up the Thames Inn barges and used it to render Pimlico safe. Oh, my good. Oh, wow. Is that not one of your all time favourite pieces of London trivia? Yes, absolutely first class. And I'm 99.9% sure it's true you sometimes may misremember things, but I love that piece of trivia. And it makes perfect sense, doesn't it, because you've got boggy riverside land, but if you pile loads and loads and loads of dry, firm rocks and soil on it, it creates a new layer and they built on it. I see. They also used to heat, you know, dolphin Square just off in Pimlico. They used to heat it with water from the power station on the other side of the road. Wow. But that's not where you are. No, you're very welcome. I love that. Isn't knowledge a wonderful. Don't know where that came from. But I'm not. I mean, if I've got it wrong, I'm going to be embarrassed, so I'll stop boasting about how clever I am and just do this. Thank you very much. Thank you. Paul Scott in Colchester. Scott. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. So it's the at symbol. I was looking at my keyboard the other day. Obviously, it's used quite a lot now in email addresses, Twitter handles, etcetera. Did it exist before the computer age? And if so, what was it used for? I think I like that question. I mean, almost certainly the answer is yes to the first bit, but I don't know what the. What the. Why is what was it used for? Because it. Presumably it would have been on a. What are they called? The individual bits of typeset. Are they called individual bits of typeset? Absolutely no idea. Nor have I. So there must. Otherwise there's no reason why it would have ended up on a typewriter. You had it on typewriters before computers came along, didn't you? Absolutely, yeah. What was it for before? It was our email address. Agreed. Yeah. I love that question, actually. Do you spend a lot of time contemplating your keyboard and wondering about the universe? I'm an accountant, so, yes. Spend a lot of time on my keyboard. 22 minutes after twelve. Good man, Scott. We've got that. So we've got sweet potatoes, the Carrington event, the at sign, a few others as well. What was the last one? I really liked the last one as well. We'll come back to it. Someone else is keeping a record of this. Dave's in Clackett Lane. Question or answered, though? Here's a question. Please. James. Carry on. Dave. Are you at the services? I am indeed. Have they got anything incongruous for sale? One of my favorite calls to this program back in the day was when someone rang me from crackit lane services to tell me that they were selling wetsuits at a special bargain price. Well, it's downpouring at the moment. Somebody could be doing a trade. Go on. What's your question? Who invented or who devised the random numbers on a dartboard? They're not random. 21. Okay. They're not random. 20 and 19 are as far apart as it's possible for them to be. And if you start from there, well, that's right. Everything else makes sense. Devised. What number goes where? I like that. Yeah. Who designed the dartboard? Yeah, right. You're on. You'd think you'd have. I don't know. I know this. I know this. It was the Earl of Dartmouth. Who? The Earl of Dartmouth, Dave, what he was doing. Yeah, he was doing archery practice with. Because if you go back far enough in english history, all noblemen were expected to have a trained troop of soldiers ready for, you know, the next invasion by the French, or whatever it may be. And the Earl of Dartmouth was out training his troops in archery. They were doing archery, shooting arrows at the board, and it started raining like it has today, and so he went indoors and tried to come up with a way of practicing archery indoors. So he invented darts. And that's why it's called darts, because it was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth. Right. But how? How did he come about saying, I'll stick one next to 20? Damn you, Dave. Damn you, Dave. I. Listen two things. Number one, that first bit's not true. It's a story I invented about two years ago in the hope of still being on the radio one day when someone brings it back to me and claims that it's true. True is it's the only thing I've ever done on the radio that one of my daughters thinks is funny, because she claims that one of her friends at school told her that darts had been invented by the Earl of Dartmouth, and her dad had heard it on the radio. So it's already working. It's already working, but it's not true. And I'm not going to send you out into the wide world equipped with false knowledge, so we'd want to know. Not so much who invented darts, but who designed the dartboard and why? And you're on. We'll get you an answer to that. 25 minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 some breaking news for you. I wouldn't normally bother with breaking news during Mistria because Mister era is so important, but this is quite. What's the word I'd use? Hilarious. Arranbanks and other people and groups linked to the Leave campaign have been referred to the National Crime Agency for suspected criminal offences in the Brexit referendum. The electoral commission has said a number of criminal offences may have been committed, the commission said, saying there were reasonable grounds to suspect that banks, the insurance millionaire who backed the unofficial leave campaign, was not the true source of 8 million pounds in loans to it. That's a very interesting development, I'm sure you'll agree. Crikey. All that time he spent trolling me on Twitter. He should have been talking to his lawyers. It's coming up to 27 minutes after twelve. Chris is in Cheltenham. Chris, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Chris. The chaps, question about, first of all, where the tunneling material goes. Well, the cross federal one in particular, that was all in London Clay, or still is in London, and clay that has predominantly gone to a place called Wallasey island, which is out in the Thames, which they created habitat for wetland birds, that sort of thing. So they're making the island bigger, correct? Yes, if you just google Wallasey island. No, I don't need to. I've got you here. I believe you. And the other part of his question was, why can't it be reused elsewhere? Well, that really comes down to what material you're being. You're tunneling through and how you're tunneling through it. So to construct tunnels, use a TBM tunnel boring machine. Yes, there's two types of. That is either a slurry machine or earth machine. Now, the slurry machine renders the material pretty much useless because of the processes that you have to go through to take out the material. It basically grinds the ground instead of digging it out, so it just renders it unusable. They also have to add additives to it sometimes to improve the efficiency of the chemistry of the filter presses and stuff. Yeah. So I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I was right about Pimlico, you know. Did you know that? I did not know, but I like Pimlico because I'm a staunch anti Brexit thing and the Pimlico plumbers crusade. Charlie. Yeah, he's playing a blinder, isn't it? I like Pimlico because my publishers. You must be under severe pressure to talk about other stuff, but keep on doing your Brexit thing. I'm not really. I'm not under pressure from anyone to do anything. It's just. It's just you worry sometimes that even the likes of you and me are going to get sick of hearing about it soon. But not yet. Your books in the post today. Oh, good man. What do you. What are your qualifications to answer this question, I'm currently working on the tunnel in project in the north of England and I'm the environmental advisor that deals with the horizons and the waste. So your job is to dispose of the waste dug up? When tunneling, I find places for it to go and I ensure that compliance is all in line with the permits and that sort of thing. How many people are there in your line of work, roughly, in this country? Not many, thankfully. We'll keep that quiet. I said all for your flight. You know what you've done. You know what you've done, don't you, Chris? Oh, go on. Absolutely. All day long, it's stone cold if you're over the line, my friend. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Give him the round of applause as well. Great work. Great work. Life complete, mate. Achievement unlocked, my friend. 29 minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I haven't been keeping very good notes on this one, so I'll catch up in the break with what else needs answering. The meat question, I think probably still needs a little bit more detail. The Carrington event question needs an awful lot of knowledge. How much warning will we get of the next Carrington event like event? Who designed the dartboard? Or indeed invented the dartboard? Why do sweet potatoes yield less mash than white potatoes? Oh, and I love the sign. You know, the app that we use in our Twitter handles or in our email addresses, was that around before typewriters? Was that around before computers? And if so, what was it actually for? Because we never use it for anything else these days. A couple of others as well. But I'll get them. I'll work out what they are during the break. Forgive me, nobody's perfect. I've forgotten you're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I'm sure Sheila will have more detail or the news bulletins will have more detail on that breaking news story involving the odd little man, Aaron Banks, who has been referred to the National Crime Agency, along with some others, over concerns regarding the funding of the Leave campaign. 1235 is the time, but mystery out obviously supersedes all such concerns. Questions that need answers are currently about potatoes, dartboards, meat, the Carrington event, and that sign on your computer keyboard, Max, is in hither green. Will it be a question or an answer, Max? It will be an answer. Carry on. The at sign. Yes. I'm surprised the guy didn't know as he was an accountant, because it's an accountancy symbol. So it's been around for as long as printing. Yeah, presses. It's victorian times, at least. It's so many items at each. At. So ten apples at four p. On an accountancy. On an invoice or a ledger. Yeah. So, I mean, two letters, but I suppose it's still easier to type. No, but it needs. It's more than that. It's each at. Because you could put ten apples at four p and no one would know whether it was ten apples for four p or ten apples for four p each. So it specifically means each, doesn't it? So you would be writing e ach at. You'd need seven things on your. If you were printing it. Yeah. Look at this. Teamwork, Max. Although it seems like it's perfect because, you know, it's a certain person at a domain name, it was just a random thing. I seem to remember reading the guy that invented the email system, sent the first email, chose that symbol because he was looking for something that wasn't really going to be used in anybody's name. It was sort of convenient. And so he chose the app symbol. So that's how we get, you know, James O'Brien at LBC dot co dot UK. Actually, I'm like Beyonce, mate. You can just put James at LBC dot co dot UK. I have to go through my full name because I'm not as famous as you. Well, there used to be three or four. James's here. Some of the others started complaining. Why does he get the christian now? It's just because I was here first. Round of applause from qualification. No, stop, stop. Reset qualifications, mate. Well, double. I was a newspaper sub editor for about 20 years. Oh, yeah. And more recently, I do something called SDO, which you may or may not know what that means, but I think I do. Basically, I get websites at the top of Google. Oh, brilliant. Yes. Search engine optimization. Correct. Although if you talk to us SEOs, we don't like to call it search engine optimization because you're optimizing for people, not for search engines. But, you know, it sounds like fun. Well, it sounds, it sounds all right, you know. There you go. At least you've got career options open because the world of subbing doesn't have anything like the opportunities that it used to. I've given him his round of applause. Have I? Or did we give him another one? I like him. There we go. Mind how you go, Max. One day you too might have a single name. Commercial email address. 1238 is the time Carl is in Birmingham. Carl, question or answer? It's a question, James, carry on. So obviously, when we breathe in, we breathe in through our mouth, we can then breathe out through our nose. If you've got smelly breath or if you've had like a cheese and onion sandwich, if you breathe in through your mouth and then breathe out of your mouth, you can then smell your breath. If you breathe in and then breathe out through your nose, you can't actually smell it. In what circumstances can you smell your breath? Okay, so if you've got smelly breath after somebody give it. I know what smelly breath is. How can you ever smell your own breath? I don't think I've ever managed that feat. If you breathe out your mouth into your hands and sniff. Yeah, fragrance. But if you do the same from your nose and then sniff, you can't smell it. Yeah, because the stuff that's making your breath smells in your gob, not your nose. Yeah, but if you breathe in through your mouth, it's going inside you, then if you breathe out your nose, surely it should still smell. Oh, you're weird. You sound like you want it. You sound like you are cross that you can't actually expel halitosis from your nose. Yeah, but if you're breathing in, then that smell surely is going to go down inside you, then it should, in theory, come out your nose, but it doesn't. Oh, mate, you're making my teeth itch now. Never mind my nose, why doesn't. Bad breath. If you breathe in and you've got a rancid breath situation unfolding, bloke next to me in the coffee queue this morning had clearly had a very, very heavy night and then finished it off with a kebab, the evidence was all over the atmos. Why don't. Why can't you smell it on? Well, you can never smell your breath in your nose, but then. Oh, I don't know, I understand. The question. It's a terrible phone line. Get Carl an answer now. And we forgot about Gary's question about calories, so get that on the board as well. Calories, bad breath, meat. Carrington events, dart boards and sweet potatoes. Carl's in St Austell in Cornwall, Kyle. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's a cardan event. Is it Carrington? I'm not entirely sure, but I know the answer. Good, that's the man. When the sun lets off any sort of radiation, it takes about eight minutes to get to earth. So assuming we're watching the sun and we see the flare actually expel from the sun surface, we'd about eight minutes, no less. We'd have, what? About eight minutes? Eight minutes to sort of react to that. Assuming that we are watching the sun and see the solar flare sort of expel from the sun. What is a solar flare? A solar flare is a big discharge of electromagnetic magnetic radiation from the sun's surface and call up the question. I think Mark, his name, was, knew about one in 1858, which you didn't know about, but you just know what a solar flare is. Yeah. What would it do? What would it do to us now on Earth? Do you think it potentially could knock out all our communication satellites? Project fear, mate. Yeah, exactly. That's what our remainders obviously talk about a lot, though, because it's. Because it's a massive pulse of energy that would move from the sun to the earth and knock stuff out. And at eight minutes, because that's the time it takes anything to travel from the sun to earth. Yes. Aim is for the radiation. There's no way that observing the sun could provide any clues to an imminent solar flare? I don't think there is no. We know it's going to happen just by watching the sun surface, but it's sort of. It's so instant that when it comes to. I got a tweet saying, I think that question is answerable, but I think you're going to be quite frightened by the answer. And he's right. So we'd have eight minutes, an eight minute warning that everything could be about to get fried. Yeah. Which obviously is not long enough to sort of react, to do anything. You sort of have to ride it out. Yeah. I mean, you could turn your telly off if you were quick, because you might not break, because you'd want everything off when the. When the. When the flare hit, so that there was a chance you'd be able to turn it back on again when they got the electricity up and running. What are your qualifications, Carl? I'm a nuclear chemist. Shut the front door. Yeah, full on nuclear scientist? Yep. So it's not nucleus? Yes, it is, actually. Are you. I mean, how many people are there in your kind of field? Not many. No. You can't just say not many, of course. And this is. This is nuclear chemistry that you're describing to us or not, because it's not. But it is because the sun is a nuclear explosion. It's just a nuclear furnace. Yeah, a nuclear furnace. A producer is looking at me with a very blank face. I can't take responsibility for what you don't understand. How many chemists are there in your field, roughly in the country working at the moment? Hundreds. I couldn't give you an exact figure, to be so honest. And what's next on your to do list? What does a nuclear scientist do after phoning? Mistria has an answer, I think. After that. Are you allowed to tell me, or is this we doing a state secret? What's on the agenda this afternoon? Well, I don't actually work in that field anymore because it's not much down in Cornwall. Those are your qualifications in nuclear chemistry? Good man. And of course you could have just said very hard sums, James. That would be most of it, wouldn't it? Pretty much. Just give him a round of applause, Karl, thanks ever so much. I love that answer. 1245 is the time. So we've done that. That was good to know. Although absolutely terrifying to learn. Calories. Where do they come from? Why can't you smell your own breath? If you breathe in through your mouth and infest the breath with your rancid halitosis and then breathe out through your nose, theoretically, very occasionally, there are a couple of things, like ammonia smells will come out through your nose, but very little else. I don't know what the answer to that is. Where did calories come from? Who invented the dartboard? Not darts itself. Everyone knows that the game of darts was invented by the Earl of Dartmouth. But who designed the dartboard? The original design of the dartboard that then spread around the world. And the sweet potatoes question I thought we'd do better with, to be honest with you. Why do sweet potatoes yield less mash than normal potatoes? As in. As in white potatoes, your king Edward or your Marius Piper? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Just a little word of thanks to everyone who has been in touch about quite a big event in my life today. I'm very touched by your concern. I'd also like to thank all the gammon for the really thick reviews that they've put up on Amazon because it allowed me to promote it furiously. And you've got me up to number 14, Gammon. So thanks ever so much for that. I don't know how I'll ever be able to repay you. It is coming up to ten to one. You're listening to James, Obran and Elbe's. See back to mystery hour. Brian is in Dulwich. Brian, question or answer? It's an answer for you, James. It's probably going to add to the case of veganism as well. You're knitting the topics together today, my friend. Exactly. So it's about meat then. So we're back. We're back to the steak question. Aren't we gone? You're right about the chicken with salmonella, but it's actually with pork is because pigs are omnivores. They can also eat rodents, and rodents carry a parasite, which is called, I think it's called trichonella. Right. And so that's why you cook the pork thoroughly, to get rid of the parasites. So it's. They eat a rat. Yeah. It's like that old woman who swallowed a fly, isn't it? And then the bacteria in the rat transfers to the pig. It's a parasite. A parasite in the rat that transverse to the pig and the pig's stomach juices doesn't kill the parasite. So you've got to cook the pojasus out of it in order to make sure that the parasite is dead. Exactly. And that probably explains why ancient religions avoided pork. There you go. You've also tied in religion as well. It's always got a religious context somewhere in the background, haven't you? Well, actually, we'll probably have to eat rats after Brexit. Exactly what I'm sure. What are your qualifications? I used to work on a farm years ago and my grandad kept pigs. Perfect. And so you could actually, if you kept the pigs very carefully, you could ensure that they weren't infected in, because there are dishes, I'm sure, in southeast Asia, I've had a minced pork dish that was pretty close to raw. I mean, I was probably taking my life in my hands. But if you kept your pig in, you know, in your sitting room and you knew there were any rats around, you could probably raise one without this problem. But you'd be hard put to farm on a commercial level. Observing those commercial, even free range pig keeping is. You definitely would get. You're right. You know, I think in our lifetime, veganism might become the norm and eating meat will be a bit like smoking Marlboro reds or drinking meth. Round of applause for Brian. Thank you very much. Great stuff, mate. 1251 is the time. Matthew is in Southampton. Question or answer? Matthew Stewart's inquiry on the Carrington event. Whoa. He was a nuclear chemist, mate. Although he went a bit cagey at the end, didn't he? I don't know. Either he is undercover on a secret government project or he might have misremembered what he learned at university. Go on over to you. So it's the photons from the sun will take about eight minutes to get there. He's correct about that. With the protons and neutrons that do the damage. And that would take five to eight days to get to the earth. If you think of it like a sprinkler, like a water sprinkler, we can see it turn on, but then the water will take time to actually reach us. Oh, okay. Qualifications? I'm doing a PhD, partly in solar physics. The listeners to this. Do you know, some people still think that radio phonings are just for sort of racist taxi drivers. So we've got two solar physicists on the right, a nuclear chemist and now a solar physicist on the program. Yeah. So how would I feel the photons? How would they. How would I feel them on earth? Not the photons or the photons. We wouldn't feel them. But basically we can see it coming. So I could observe it, but when it got here, it wouldn't have any particular impact on earth, but it would be a precursor. We'd have to wait for the protons and neutrons to hurt and so actually affect us. It would just affect all the electronics. Yeah, no, no, I know, but that could also affect us. I mean, you say that if you're on a life support machine, mate, you're going to be pretty worried if the electronics kick out, aren't you? As it goes, beautiful answers. A pair of answers. And I don't have to rescind the other fellows round of applause because essentially what you've done is just expand upon what he said. So seven to eight days. We probably could take some sort of precautions, but more than we. More than we could in 8 hours, we'd actually have to turn on all of the power lines, not turn them off. Is that right? Across the whole system, rather than blowing up specific things. Mate, you are a genius. What are you going to do when you've got your PhD? What sort of line of work do you want to go into? I have no idea yet. Really? Yeah, no idea. Probably academia, but we'll see. Well, the students will be glad to have you. You've got a lovely awaited. Brian Cox was on yesterday and not everybody can communicate complicated. He's pretty close to mine now. Matthew, round of applause, mate. Beautiful answer. Beautiful answer. Actually, that's three hardcore scientists we've had on the program in three days. I forgot about the professor appearing yesterday. I really want a calories answer. If we can get an answer on where calories. I mean, it must have been a bloke. Was it called calorie? It's a unit of heat. Don't laugh. No, it's called carol. His wife was called carol. So he discovered something, decided to call it a calorie. But where? Someone must know. Zero. 345-606-0973 Danny is in south Fleet. Danny, question or answer? Carry on. Okay, the thing about sweet potatoes. Yes. They're not actually potatoes. It's the roots of a bindweed plant. Okay. So the actual tuber itself is different inside it's made up of a fibrous material. Yes. Which is not how potatoes are. So when you mash it all up, it doesn't hold as much air. Therefore you get more from white potatoes and sweet structure. What about absorbing water? Would that be part of it? Would the white ones absorb more of it as well? There's more holes, if you like, inside of an ordinary potato. Fibrous one. Yeah. It's a root. It's a completely different thing, like a honeycomb. Think of a honey. Think of a honeycomb and that'd be closer to your potato. So the holes in the honeycomb fill up with air or water. Lovely butter. And the sweet potato is just a completely different constituency. Completely different. And starchy as well. Why is it called. We just called it a potato because it was easier to. They just couldn't be bothered to come up with a more. I've got no idea, really. I mean, you know, it's actually the root of a weed. Yeah. It tastes nice. It's all right. And let's not get carried away. This business about having sweet potato chips when you go out for a burger, that needs to be stamped on immediately. But they are. They're all. They have their moments. What are your qualifications, Dan? I grow potatoes. I'm a potato farmer. It's just one of those days today. Give him a radio circle and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come I know there's a lot of potato farmers in the world, but I just. Sometimes I like to spread the love around a bit. Yeah. Great work. You have a question about act? Yeah, yeah, we use that for years. You know, he'd say like 20 tons at a. Five. A ton. Exactly. That was on. That was on the track record. I'm surprised the fellow asked the question didn't know, given that he's an accountant. But it's good job I can't remember his name. Round of applause for Danny. Come on, we gotta go. Squeeze in a couple more. John is in Lambeth. John, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Hello? Hello? I'm here. Quick. Yeah. Yes, yes. So the reason why you can't smell your breath when you breathe out. So the reason is that when you breathe. When you breathe in, the air is light, and also the direction on inhalation directs the air towards the roof of your nose, where you do. Your sensing the smell? Yes. When you breathe out, the air is humidified, it's heavier, and the direction is. So it's all about where the olfactory process is. So it's a bit like sneaking under the wire, where the wire detects. Detects fragrance. Well, exactly, yeah. So when you breathe out, the air doesn't actually go to the roof of your nose, it goes straight out to your nostrils. Question or answer? I mean, um. Qualifications? Ent surgeon. Ent surgeon. Ear, nose and phone. And I know that. Just taking a Mickey out of my colleague who put em for mother t up on the screen. Thank you very much. I know it's an ear, nose and throat surgeon, but I work with someone who thinks it's an ear mose and throat surgeon, according to the acronym that they put up on the screen. Round of applause for John. Not quite. It's not enough for a ray li otter, is it? To be. Be. Seriously, move along. Ravi's in Crawley. Ravi, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Good afternoon. Hello, Ravi. What have you got for me? I can't answer the complete question on calorie, but I do have a little bit of knowledge on that. Yes. So who discovered them or invented them or defined them? It was defined by a French. Was it a french chemist or a french scientist named Nicholas Clement? Okay. This was in 1830s. Oh, yeah. You're doing it from memory. And what. When did. When did they. So we're going to run out of time. She'd have focused here. When did they sort of move into the mainstream? Right. So the thing was, the scientific community defined as two different things. So you've got a small calorie, the ground calorie and the other large calorie for the food measurements. So the small calorie is, is a unit of heat energy and that is defined as the amount of heat energy required to raise the gram. To raise 1 gram of water by one degree centigrade at the pressure of 1 atm. To heat it up. Sorry, say again? To heat it up. To heat up the water. Yeah, to heat up the water. That's for the chemical measurements, the large calories for the food measurement. I'm out of time. Give them a round of applause. And there it is. Don't worry. And it's just coming out to 01:00 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.