What happens when left-hand roads meet right-hand roads?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien do you know, I think for the first time in the history of mystery hour, it almost rhymes like Katarina Johnson Thompson, am I the only one who smiles whenever I hear that magnificent athlete's name? I don't know why. Something about it that just puts a little sort of spring in my step. Katarina Johnson Thompson, the history of mystery hour I've actually remembered a question that I wanted to ask on mystery hour. Isn't that incredible? We've done it for years. I always forget. They fall out of my. Fall out of my head like water through a sieve. Did people ever smoke in church? That's what I found myself thinking on Sunday. I don't smoke. But it occurred to me that I think was reading about someone smoking in a plain toilet, that level of addiction where the idea of even going for an hour without a smoke back in the day was quite commonplace. That was my question. It's not that good, actually, now that I've asked it out loud. Sorry about that. I'll also solve the mystery of why short men are about to get a sex bonanza. If they play their cards right, I'll solve that mystery myself. But I need some of yours too. The way it works is that I'd love the idea of somebody not listening to the program, seeing what I've just retweeted from. Sweet smokescreen. Who says I'm five foot eleven? My ex boyfriend was five foot six. The sex wasn't great. I'm not sure if it was a height issue, I just wanted to get it off my chest. Presumably if you were five foot eleven and he was five foot six, it was quite hard to get him off your chest as well. Boom, boom. Six minutes after twelve is the time we are talking today. Mysteries. The way this works. The phone lines are full. Should we just crack on and do it and let people who are listening and don't know what we're playing at work out what's going on? Or would you like. I'll give you a quick heads up. It's a bit like the newspaper articles magazine features where you ask a question, a mystery question. It's a good question. Clever stuff. Not really silly stuff. Really silly stuff we don't like. So why does that happen? What do we do with this? Where does that come from? What does. What explains this origins of that, all that kind of thing, and someone else rings in with an answer. You're not allowed to look stuff up. If you are new to this. That's the only real rule. Try not to be dull. But of course, no one really knows that they're being dull until somebody else tells them. Repetition we kind of guard against, but we've been doing it for so long, some stuff's going to come back round again and the people ringing in to answer questions aren't allowed to look stuff up. We can all look stuff up. If I were to be a little bit highfalutin for a moment, the reason that we do, or began, actually, the reason we began this is because it's Thursday and whenever there's an election, and we must have been going through a period when there were quite a lot of elections, you're not allowed to talk about politics. So we needed a feature that allowed us to have fun for an hour without necessarily running the risk of anything political popping up. And it just sort of stayed. But the kind of reason why I like it so much is that it gives us a chance to be proud of our knowledge, even in a slightly silly way. So you might know the answer to a question that someone else asks because you are a PhD student or a professor of linguistics or the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Or you might know it because you saw something on telly last night, and I don't mind which, whether it's the fruit of your life's work or whether it's the fruit of watching the box, I just like the fact that you know it and I don't, and the people phoning in to ask the question, don't. And that completes your description of mystery hour. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Shall I solve the mystery of short men before we crack on? Yeah, okay, I'll do that. So people stop ringing in. Researchers have found, okay, that the greater the difference between the sexes, the greater the chance a species will become extinct. So this means that women should probably start sleeping with shorter men. The survival of the human race could depend on it. So that little stumpy fellas listening to this, that is the chat up line that you need when you're down in images on Saturday night, you go up to a really tall girl and you say, if you don't come home with me, the human race could become extinct. And if that doesn't focus the mind, then frankly, I don't know what will. It's published in the journal Nature. It may not necessarily. As the Times science editor writes today, before Britain's shorties, dust off their lucky pants in anticipation of corrective evolutionary measures. It is worth noting a minor caveat. The research upon which the scientists have based this conclusion was actually confined to crustaceans. There's a joke about crabs in there somewhere, but I'm far too grown up to make it. Nine minutes after twelve is a time Simon can kick off mystery out from Wandsworth. Simon, question or answer? Question? I'm loving that stat. But I'm only five foot eight. Happy days, Simon. Happy. I don't know if that counts as short. Anyway, I don't. Anyway, it's not that tall. I'll tell you what. First time caller, long time listener. Thank you. Thank you. My question is this. In, in mainland Europe, they all drive on this right hand side of the road. I was in Thailand recently and they drive on the left hand side of the road. Europe and Thailand and I believe India, for example. They also drive in the right hand side of the road. You could drive from one to the other. At some point you've got to do a flip from the right hand side of the road to the left. A land border between two countries with driving on the different side of the road. Where is that border? What on earth happens at that border? Is it like some convoluted spaghetti junk? I don't know where it is. So we need someone who first of all can tell us where it is and then tell us what happens. Indeed. Would it work? If I'm trying to think, you know, in France, on the big motorways when you go into those gates and that, you could come out of that on a different side to where you went in, couldn't you? It's fiddly. It would be fiddly. It's a lovely question. How long has this been preying on your mind, Simon? About a year, mate. Love it, love it. And if we can't get an answer to that, then I'll give you the money myself. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. So somewhere in the world there must be, and there must be more than one, a land border on one side of which traffic drives on the right and on the other side of which traffic drives on the left. What happens at that border? 0345. That's a beautiful question, actually. Simon, are you still there? No. I'm giving you a round of applause for that, mate. That's an absolutely beautiful question and we'll get you an answer to it. Hopefully. Paul is in Norfolk. Paul, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Paul. Me and my missus are looking at holidays at the moment. Next time she comes up with something, I say, oh, that's too expensive. That's too dear. And she's decided to call me, or decided that I am tight as old boots. Tight as old boots. I like that lovely phrase, where's she from? Where did she come from? Uh, Croydon. Okay. I was going to say it might be. It sounds like it's got a touch of old Yorkshire tradition, that. But I don't know that. Croydon has its own kind of history of phrases. The famous Croydon patois. You know, when. When you get. When you buy a new pair of boots, they're a bit tight as you wear them in, and they get older, they get looser and comfortable. Why. Why tight as old boots? There's two. Well, there's two things. You're going back in time to the days when the leather was a lot less tooled than it is now. So the tightness of the leather, it would contract if you didn't wear them for a while. So if you were wearing them every day, they'd never get tighter. But if you hadn't worn them for ages, they would. They would shrivel. And then you try and put them on. Or it refers to the fact that your feet are growing. No. Why not? First of all, your feet don't grow. Of course they grow. Well, when you're from a child to an adult. Children wear boots, mate. I'm not having that. There's two. There's only two possible answers to this. The first is that the boots shrivel, especially old fashioned leather. Have you ever seen them in a charity shop? They're half the size of they were when you bought them. So that. That is half your answer. And the other possibility is the children's answer. Why are you walking like that, son? My boots are too tight. That. Oh, your feet are growing. See, tight as. That's too tight to buy the new boots. Yeah, that might be also linked to it, but there's no. There's no other possible. This is Occam's razor in action. There's no other possible explanation. I'm really glad I signed in today. Thank you, James. I like the answer, as I hadn't heard the phrase before. Tight as a nat's chuff, we say, but no, but I like old boots. It's a bit more manageable. What's on the agenda for holidays, and how tight are you? Out of interest, I just signed the check. I don't know how tight I am, actually, but Tenerife on Monday for four night, you're off to Tenerife on Monday. Be nice. What's the weather like? What's the weather like? 23, 24, which is apparently the same as it's going to be here. Oh, not so sweet. There you go. Could have saved yourself a fortune. Ball. It's 13 minutes after twelve. Steve's in Telford. Steve, question or answer? Hi, James. First time caller. You're very welcome. Yeah, cool, right. Do dreams run faster than reality? Yeah, they must do. Yeah. So my point is, I wake up sometimes in the middle of the night and I go to the, you know, go to the loo and then I'll wake up about 20 minutes later and the alarm will go off and then I think I've had like a really long dream, but I think, how on earth have I had a really long dream in that short space of time? It's tough as old boots, isn't it? Not tight as old boots. His girlfriend's got the flipping thing wrong, hasn't she? It's not tight. Getting back. It's not tight as old boots. It's tough as old boots. Oh, Lord above. So the problem is, how do you measure it? Because it's not like we can all be Leonardo DiCaprio in that film, is it? And actually go around having a bit of an explore in a dream. How would you know? Because I'm like you, I sometimes have dreams that seem to have covered several weeks, usually summer of 1988, actually, if I'm honest. But obviously I've only been asleep for a matter of minutes, so you know the answer. I don't know the answer. It's just like. As if you've had like an hour and a half films worth of dreams. Yeah. You think you have in like twelve minutes or something. Yeah. Well, how. Who would know the answer to that, though? Well, I don't know. You're going to ring in and tell me. Well, obviously I know how. Mystery, how it works. I'm just trying to think who would be qualified to. Because. Can you study dreams in that way? I don't think that you can. Can you? No idea. Well, we'll find out, Steve. It's on the list. I like it. How does time work in dreams? What? Just curious, really? At all? Yeah, me too. I'm curious as well. 1215 is the time. Tight as old boots. Honestly, I just wasted eight minutes of all our lives with what's his chops. His girlfriend has got a flipping figures of speech mixed up. Wrong. Croydon. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I think that might be one of my favorite questions of all time. Now that some people have started sending me answers, it's assumed an even greater magnificence. The question from was it Chris in Wandsworth who said, how do, if you reach a land border between two territories, on one side of which traffic drives on the right and on the other side of which traffic drives on the left? What happened? And I've been sent some answers. I can't use them because we don't really take answers from anything except the phone lines. Although on this occasion I will tweet pictures when I can. This is a brilliant, absolutely brilliant question. And we veer from the sublime to the ridiculous, having then spent a few minutes answering the question of where the phrase is as tight as old boots comes from. But I suspect that the question was built on a misconception. The phrase historically, of course, is tough as old boots, but they don't care. They're off to tenerife on Monday anyway. And then finally, the relationship between dreams and time. How come? Because time can't pass any differently when you're asleep than it does when you're awake. But consciousness seems to play a role in it somewhere, because you can nod off for two minutes and wake up convinced that you've just had a dream that covered about an hour. I don't really know what the question is, but if you want to ring in and try to answer it, then you are more than welcome. Okay. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you'd like to answer any of these questions or indeed ask one of your own. Neil is in Serviton. Neil, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Please carry on. Well, first of all, I think it's slightly ironic. Your greatest question ever is a motoring question. That's what. Do you want to know something else even more ironic? Yes. Jones the engineer is back for a tour. Well, Jones was working here when we launched mystery hour and he just said that as well. I can't believe you've got motor in question. It wasn't a motoring question, it was a question about borders. Well, which side you drive on? No, it's not. It's a question about borders. It's not motoring. Okay. Well, I'm just to know if you're going to think my question might be a road question. Oh, no, go on then. What I'd like to know is, over the last hundred years or so, since there's been lots of cars. Yes. Have animals developed a better road sense right through evolution through hundreds of generations that must have gone through. Are they more road aware? So are there? Well, pheasants aren't, are they? Right, yeah, but there might be some magpies that say, let's pop down to the a three because the squirrels are lovely down there. Yeah, I like that. Well, we'd need to see it, wouldn't we? I mean, my cat. Cats don't get run over very often, do they? They get. Isn't that the answer? Cats get run over much less often than pheasants. So cats must have some sort of road centre. No, because you've gone into species there. Yeah. That's not, that's not evolution. Why not? Well, your cat can't have evolved the road sense of a pheasant. Well, no, but it can have evolved the road sense of a cat. Yes, a cat. So that's my aunt. That's my question is any evidence suggest that certain species have developed better road sense? Yes. The fact that certain species get run over more than others, that's the flipping evidence, man. No, but 100 years ago, squirrels might have got run over a lot more. Evolution. You're not going to get an evolutionary result in 100 years, I don't think. Course you will. It's gent. Gent gender. There must be. How many generations of squirrel are there now? I mean, well, under the darwinian theory of evolution, you'd need. You'd need millennia. You'd need generation upon generation upon generation. But you're talking about evolutionary behavior, not, not actual genetic change. Yeah, evolutionary behavior. Evolution that. Have they evolved to develop a better road sense? Does their mum teach them, really? Possibly, yeah. However, that. How would you prove it, though? Because if you're not taking my answer, which I thought was brilliant, how would you. How would you prove it? Because I say, look, cats don't get around, pheasants do. Therefore, cats have learned to cross the road and they've evolved some road sense. Yeah, I've read Richard Dawkins book, the greatest show on earth, and he managed to prove evolution in various generations of bacteria and fish and how they adapt to their surroundings. Yes. So, John, I know. Is there any evidence to suggest that animals have got better roads since now than they did 100 years ago? Okay. Okay, so, yeah, so when cars first started, were they running over dogs and cats like it was going out of fashion? That's basically it, yes, I like that. Okay. No, I like that a lot. Okay, you're on. Nice one. Now, is it a motion question, though, James? It's not for me, no, for me, it's an evolutionary question, or animal behavior questions. A David Attenborough question, not a Jeremy Clarkson. Isn't it? Absolutely. All the way. Coles in red, that nice one. Neil Cole's. I like that question as well. Cole is in. I mean, who would have counted for the third time now, Cole is in Manchester. Sorry, Cole, I got distracted. Question or answer? It's no problem. Answer, please, James. Carry on, mate. So it's about the switching sides of the road, country to country. If one drives on the left, one drives on the right. So there's kind of two answers. One's quite nice, the other one's really boring. Go on. I'll tell you. Let's do the boring one first. So the boring one that I took was between Cambodia and Thailand. And you just. You drive up to leave Cambodia. There's a big gate, everybody, you know, gets off the bus or whatever. Hands in your passports. Da da da. Bus drives on through to Thailand. Then you kind of walk through this kind of almost like a DMZ dead zone type space where there's like, you know, bars and whatnot. And then on the other side, you get back on and you're on the other side of the road. Yeah, you were right. That was quite boring. What was the. What was the cool one? There's this. How can I describe. It's like a spaghetti junction type thing. So you're. Yes. China. Macau. Yeah, that's the one. It's wicked. It's a curly bridge. Yeah. It's so cool. Yeah. Have you seen it? Have you been on it? I've not been. Well, I've done the boring one. Right. So it's like. This is like a figure of eight bridge. You're right. Like a miniature spaghetti hunt. A conjunction of spaghetti hoops, if you will. So you're driving up one side on the right, and then you do a sort of swervey hoopy thing over this bridge, over water. So it's only a land border, it's man made. And then you come out the other side of this figure of eight bridge, driving on the other side of the road. It's absolutely. It's one of the coolest things I've ever seen. Yeah. And I had to do the boring one, which. Well, I bet you were in Cambodia and Thailand, mate. You were having a right old laugh. That's true. Yeah. Those buses, though. Hey, were there any goats on yours? Any goats on yours when you were there? There were no goats on the. On the bus itself, but we did. I did almost die. Twice on that single journey, which was quite, quite well because of the driving. I mean, he was absolutely gunning it, you know. Yeah, very, very scary. But I don't think they. I mean, there are occasional crashes, but nowhere near as many as us westerners expect there would be. Having had experience of sitting on a bus like that. I'm going to tweet a picture of chaos. Yeah, yeah. I'm going to give you a round of applause for a brilliant answer. Thanks very much. You're very welcome. And I'm now going to tweet a picture from rather splendidly named Twitter account, Chris P. Cool that bridge. And it is just as cool as it looks. And he's even provided links so you can have a look at other stuff as well. That's a beautiful. Wouldn't you say that was a vintage mystery? Our moment. 1225 is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I'll put a hashtag mystery hour on that picture of that bridge, otherwise people will wonder what the hell's going on. Joy's in Bromsgrove. Joy, question or answer? Hello, Joan. Question, please. Yeah, of course. Firstly, my name's Joyce. Not Joy. Joy. Oh, well, let Joyce be unconfined. What I want to know, James, is when I go to the butchers, Charlie Clark. Well, anyway, what's wrong with Charlie Clark? Don't go to Charlie Clark. No. I don't go to Charlie Clark in Kidderminster. No. Why not? Why would I want to go to Kidderminster when I've got a decent one up there? Come off it, Bromsgroves. An armpit compared to Kidderminster. Fighting tool. Carry on. Right. What I would like to know is when I go to my butcher's, which is. I'm not going to say the name. Not Charlie Clark. Yeah. Carry on. No. And I buy some fresh meat. Yeah. And they put it in the bag, you see, all the bag, I take it home and I put it in the freezer. Yeah. Why? When I get it out and I fit it in a plate to over to defrost overnight, why, the next morning is the plate full of blood, but the bag is still sealed? Ah. Whoa. Okay. I was expecting a completely different question there. So you. I mean, it's properly sealed, sealed like it was when you bought it. Yeah. You put it on the plate to defrost the meat. The meat defrosts. The bag's still sealed and there's blood on the outside of the bag. That's right. I think you just. You should be going to Charlie Clark's. You'd never have that problem with his meat. I'll tell you what, Joyce. If my mum doesn't get some free sausages after all that free advertising I've just given them pops out later that there's something wrong with the world. All right, you're on. And Jones, the engineer, has just said the same thing happens to him. And he buys his meat. And he buys his meat in Stoken church. Let's do it. I'll find out for you. So, blood on the outside of the bag, you know. Now, you say that it does ring a bell. Actually, I think I recognize what you describe. Let's find out why it is 28 minutes after twelve. Lovely work, Joyce. And Daphne is in Chelsea. Daphne, question or answer? Oh, hello, Jane. Hello, Daphne. Hello, dear. A question, of course, regarding Shanta. A fun question regarding that. We spoke ages ago, and I was very late at the very end, and you said, oh, do ring back. That's a nice question. And now here you are. Yes, here we are, years later. Lovely. I'm sure you're aware. Yes. Of the different sizes of champagne bottles and the weird names. Yes. Nebuchadnezzars, methuselahs. Yes, I know what they're named after. Ancient babylonian kings, etcetera. Yes. One of them is named after an ice cream, though, isn't it? Of course it is. What the hell you talking about? Mac Magnum? Arctic Rhone magnum. No, if I was named after the one with a moustache. Anyway, I was expecting bottles of a big moustache. It would be nice, wouldn't it? Put you. I might tickle a bit when you drank it. I've asked dozens of people, even someone in the trade, and they haven't got the foggiest idea why they're so called. Are there any more Babylonians? Is it just Nebuchadnezzar and Methuselah? Or does it. Jeroboams. Rehoboams. And are they all babylonian kings? Yes. Babylonian rulers? Yeah, rehoboams. Why? It's a lovely question. And we've got half an hour to answer it this time. We only had half a minute last time. I don't think anyone's going to know, James. Well, cheer up. No, no, no, I don't. And I'm not. I'm not great, because they didn't even have champagne back then. Well, that's true. It's not named after someone who invented. Well, I know, invented champagne. Blah, blah, blah. Don Perignon. Well, so they say that those before Dom Perignon yeah, but he's the one that gets the ticket, isn't he? Gets all the credit. Yes, but it's never agreed with me. Champagne. I love it, but it doesn't, as my ex partner used to say. He said, you go through three stages when you have champagne. He says it's incredible. He said, jocose, morose, comatose, rose Goldberg. I quite like that. I quite like that. I said, you forgot bellicose. That's according. Not everyone goes through the bellicose phase. I don't, actually. I do with whiskey, but I'm fine with champagne. I bypass bellicose, go straight to comatose. Maybe lacrymose. That's lovely. I do a bit of lacrimos, actually. We're both snorting as well. Vintage rainbow radio. This. I'm veering off peace. You have gone off peace. You have indeed, Daphne. Are you sure you haven't had a jeroboam already today or two? Not that I noticed, no. I shall try to get you an answer, but I share your pessimism because I sense that your search has already been comprehensive and yet it has proved fruitless. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. We're seeking answers to the following questions. One of my all time favorite questions about what happens on borders between countries where cars drive on the right, and countries and a country where cars drive on the left. If you've missed that, it's worth downing the podcast for that alone. Ditto the old boots question, which entertained us. How does time work in dreams? How come you can nod off for a couple of minutes and wake up convinced that you've just lived an hour in your dreams? Do animals have road sense? Is there any evidence that they've developed road sense over the years? Why does Joyce's meet? Why does the blood seep out of the bag when it defrosts? I think that's less of a mystery than I initially thought it was, but we'll leave it on the board. And why are champagne bottles named after babylonian kings? Although some claims that jeroboams and rehoboams are actually israelite leaders. But either way, ancient. Ancient monarchs, ancient leaders. Nebuchadnezzar, Methuselah, Jeroboam, rehoboam, and, of course, the smaller bottlers, as Daphne and Chelsea reminded us, named after Tom Selleck. Gavin is in Stansted. Gavin, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Bring it on. It's about the time you experience through dreams. Carry on. Right. The standard thinking is that when you go to sleep. You go through three separate stages of sleep. The first one is designed to get yourself into a state of paralysis. So it stops. It basically stops you falling out of bed. Yeah. Then you get into REM sleep, which is when your brain is working its highest capacity, when you're going through the sleep cycle and then you come down from that and that's called the wake cycle. Right. So if you're. Yeah, if you're dreaming you can experience any, any sort of time frame from a second of a dream to a minute of a dream. But it depends what you consider to be time because at that point conscious time stops. Yeah. Are you following me, sir? Not even a little bit. Did you think this through before you rang in? Gab, did you think this through before you rang in? Or did you think. I know that and then rang the number? No. Run it past your arm. Yeah. That doesn't count for anything these days. She wouldn't know what you were talking about. All right, well, okay. When you're asleep, what your body does, it shuts down and your brain works really, really hard and very, very quickly to process the days of information. So you can go through, let's say, in a minute, you can go through 200 minutes in the same space of a minute because of the speed at which your brain is working. That's precisely it, man. Right. I'm sure you've had the same experience when you've been asleep. Sometimes you think maybe, I think you said earlier you feel like you've done like a week's worth of living. Yes. Yeah. And sometimes you can even feel like you've done. So time is. Oh, man. It's all going a bit. What's the name of the dealer in Whiffnell? And I. Can you remember? Oh, Danny, Danny. It's all going a bit Danny, isn't it? Your aerial antennae? Um, so time is. No, it works. It's all to do with your brain. The brain is processing information and that is what conveys the illusion of time while you're dreaming. Well, not even the illusion. Times when you're asleep, you live three or four different lifetimes from the minute you're born to the minute you die. But you. You can experience them all within the bike. That's. Well, let's not be generous. Within a minute of rem sleep. Love it. I'm gonna give you a round of applause. Wang on. What are your qualifications? Theoretical scientist. I knew it. Thank you, Gavin. I'm a theoretical football star. Christian Norwich. Christian. Question or answer? Question, please. James carry on. So me and my partner were watching friends the other evening and it stands the test of time, doesn't it? I think it does, yeah. We're up to series six. Yeah. I work from home. Anyway, and the canned laughter was really annoying me, so I started thinking, when was the first usage of canned laughter? And, yeah, why was it used and who invented it? I don't know if that's all part of the same question. No, I like it. That's a nice question. I mean, is it definitely Camden Fred? I'd presume it is, but I know it was filmed in front of a studio audience because I've been in it. Some of the kind of sound, they must use an edit in the sound, they cut it off, and others, this kind of repetition of ha. It just. Yeah, it sounds. Why do you find it annoying? Do you know what, actually, I watched an episode of Red Dwarf recently that didn't have kind laughter in and I found myself not laughing. You didn't know when to laugh. Yeah. Do you know, I've mentioned. Good one. Jones, the engineer who is working with me, my oldest colleague, but he hasn't been with us for a couple of years. He's just back on a comeback tour. Do you remember when they had the debates before the 25th? Was it the 2015 election? When everyone agreed with Nick Clegg? Audiences weren't allowed to clap. Do you remember? Do you know what? Brexit got me into politics. Fair enough. Late than never. So, 2015, the leadership elections, the audiences weren't allowed to clap or cheer or anything like that because it would be impossible to police impartiality. So Jones came to work the next day, said, I've got no idea who did. Well, I've got absolutely no idea who I agreed with or disagree with, because no one was allowed to crap or cheer. That's interesting. Thank you. That's funny. Come on. So we want to find out where it was first used. Yeah. Yeah, I reckon. Yeah. Cool. Love it. Okay, thanks. Thank you. It's 1242. Emma is in Barnet. Emma, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James. Carry on, Emma. I'm afraid it's not as highbrow as Maciej. It's not really highbrow. That's just Daphne going through her drinks cabinet wondering where the bottles got their names from. Okay, well, this is me rummaging through my garden. Yes. Wondering, how do snails survive freezing temperatures? They hibernate. Well, yes, but where? How? They've only got a thin shell. Yes. And they're made of gloopy. Gunk. They are. Well, they're made mostly of water, so. So freezing temperatures for them are potentially very dangerous. You wouldn't want ice crystals if you were made mostly of water. But you mentioned the shell. It doesn't matter how thin it is. All that matters is that it's airtight. Is that. Oh. Oh, God, how dull. Well, hang on, I haven't finished yet. I haven't finished yet. They secrete. They secrete a layer of slime around the shell opening, which effectively seals them in their shell for the process of hibernation, which can last months. They definitely do do that. They do do that. I've moved from my wall and are creeping around the garden. Big grandad. Well, they're coming out of hibernation. It's all about the seal of slime. Why is science not using this seal of slime and snail shells more? Because clearly it has abundant properties. For example? Well, if you can use this tiny, thin gel and make something absolutely watertight or moisture tight. Yeah. Maybe they should be looking at snail slime and having other sides. I mean, someone's got to sort out these potholes. Maybe it could be the thing that seals the. If you could fill them up with laboratory prepared snail slime and then just seal off a pothole. Could be lovely. Broken snail shells as well, because they're so thin. Why are we using bricks for houses? No, this is it. We've got it all wrong. Do you know how I know this? My little girl asked exactly the same question when it was snowing. Oh, really? Yeah, about two weeks ago, so I looked it up. Great. How about that? I'm going to go off and get myself a methuselah, this Methuselah. It's not carried away. Applause for me. There we go. Always nice, Emma. Lovely stuff. Thank you. I must remember the name of the guy who sent me the stuff, the birdhouses and things like that. I have mentioned it on air already, but we've got it all up and running now. And if you want to help your children get involved in wildlife, I will. I'll dig out the reference on that and share it with you, because it is brilliant. They've got these tiny little birdhouses and a little paint pots, so they're going to paint the birdhouses, which means that they'll be so much more interested in what happens to the birdhouses subsequently. Zero 345-606-0973 is a number you can call if you can answer any of these questions. When did canned laughter become a thing? Why are champagne bottles named after ancient monarchs. Why does blood on Joyce's meat seep out of the bag, even though it's sealed during the defrosting process? And have animals ever. Is there any evidence that animals have developed road sense over the years? You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Mystery hour continues. A lot of love this week. I agree. It's been absolutely vintage. It's always good, but every now and then it's just like we sort of strike oil. Ellis is in Dawlish. Ellis. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So it's in relation to the road sense question for animals. Are you in your twenties? Yeah, I'm just. I'm a third year ecologist. I forgot to ask the other fellow who was asking about canned laughter, because you both began by saying, so, which means you're definitely under 30. I don't know if anyone else has picked up on this. I'm going to do a PhD on it. So, road sense among animals, what can you tell us? Yeah, so there's been a lot of research done into the behavior animals. Yeah. With particular. So, for example, Brady has looked at Sandman frogs. And so I'm bit nervous. Don't be. It's only me. And you're doing brilliantly and also, you know, stuff. So you're already winning. So they. So they've evolved to frogs. Yeah. So he would look at frogs before. There was lots and lots of cars on there. How would you do it? That's the problem, isn't it? So they do a translocation thing. So they take frogs from not near roads. Yes. And locate them near roads and then look at their survival rates. Yeah. Just to see if they get squashed. Yeah, exactly. And frogs that have grown up near roads get squashed less than frogs that have grown up miles away from roads. Yeah. Well, that's brilliant. But it's not evolution then, is it? It's learned behavior. It's adaptation. But. But. So there was a bit of research done in 2013 on cliff swallows. Oh, yeah, go on. So, uh, they've actually evolved to have a longer wing when they breed next to roads compared to the ones which breed on cliffs. Oh, wow. So because of the high mortality rate. Yes. It drives a very rapid evolution. Of course it does. Because the survival of the fittest, or in this case, the survival of the longest, is honed by the fact that all of the ones with shorter wings are dying. Yeah, exactly. Before they can breed much. Yeah. This is superb. So it's both. We've got evidence of actual evolutionary change. As in? As in, you know, that's genetic, isn't it, in the length of the wings and we've got absence of learned behavior. Do we have any? The third leg of the stool would be that the baby of a frog that was born near a road, it doesn't need to learn that. Do you see what I mean? Is there anything on that? Or. I mean, you've done enough already for a round of applause, but do you see what I mean? Does the frog that's learnt to be careful of cars pass that on to a child? Or does the child have to learn that for itself as well? It's more of a. I believe it's more of a sense of themselves learning rather than passing it on. Yes, because you couldn't. You could pass on something. Yeah. So genetic evolution would involve passing on something that makes you less likely to get run over by a car, or in the case of the cliff swallows, it makes you less likely to get hit while flying across a road or whatever it is that the longer wings do. But you couldn't. Yeah. You couldn't pass on a lesson. You could only pass on an adaptation, a physical change. Ellis, mate, when are your finals? In two weeks. You're going to be fine. You're going to rock it. And you've already got this already in the locker. Great work. Thank you, mate. 1252. Nick's in Sheffield. Nick, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got an answer. Carry on, Nick. So it's about the meat in the bag that's frozen. And there is a word that I think that comes up often on your show, but unfortunately it's not that. Go on. Oh, it's not that. I didn't think it could be because a plastic bag is not a semi permeable membrane, is it? Well, it depends on the plastic and it depends on the bag, but it can only allow water through and my proteins are much bigger. So actually, it isn't blood that you see when it seeps out of the muscle tissue, because all meat like that is a muscle tissue. Right. Actually has a protein called myoglobin, which looks a lot like hemoglobin, which makes up blood because it's got a metal center in it, iron, which makes it bright red, so it seeps out. And how can it get through the plastic is what Joyce asked. Really? That's going to be part two. But part one is that when the cells get frozen, they crack open and this myoglobin leaks out. So that's why there's blood. Or that's why there's red liquid there that wasn't there when it was. Yeah. It's also the same reason why you want to put a stake on your face if you've been hit, because myoglobin holds oxygen, and when you've got a bruise, what you need is oxygen to get to there so that it can, like, help rebuild. This is one of the best shows ever. Every hour of it's been absolutely brilliant today. The police, the Syria, and now mystery has gone absolutely gold standard. Now, move me along now to how the Maya globin gets through the plastic bag, which is the heart of Joyce's question, of course. So this is more of a logical deduction thing. If you freeze the meat in the plastic bag, or you put the plastic bag straight onto the frozen meat, the plastic freezes as well. Yes. And the plastic cracks in micro tears that are big enough to let meaty blood through the myoglobin solution. So it becomes porous. Yeah. You get tiny little micro tears that you'd be able to see with a microscope or. Beautiful answer. This is one of the most perfect answers ever. What are your qualifications, Nick? I am doing a PhD in protein chemistry. Whoa. And this is. You have just shared with us. Protein chemistry. This is explicitly protein chemistry. Well, concerning myoglobin and then on a cellular level, so more whole system stuff. So, yeah. How many people in the country at the moment would be doing phds in protein chemistry? Roughly. I would love it to be. The thing that you're referring to is definitely not there. There's going to be a good couple of thousand. I know. I can see at least two staring at me who are, like, winking and nudging because I listen in the office. I think you deserve one. You're so modest. You're. Not only did you. Did you. Did you not say the word? The proteins that we work on in our labs are chelatases that put the metals into these things. So we work quite a lot with these type of proteins. I mean, my one. Listen, no, stop. Now, Joyce is in Bromsgrove, right? She's bought some lamb chops. She's got a bit confused about why there's all red juice on the plate. After she's defrosted them, she's phoned up mystery out to get the answer. And a man doing a PhD in protein chemistry, addressing precisely the process and the practice that has confused her, has rung in to answer the question. I would dare say my girlfriend would argue I'm a man child, but. All right. Well, I've got two problems now. I have decided to award you a Ray Liotta. But I've just realized that Jones the engineer might not know what a Ray Liotta is because he hasn't worked it. Now we're cool. This is for you, Nick. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Just when you thought today's show couldn't get any better, we'd pull a Liotta out of the bag. Nick, mind how you go. When is your PhD due? September. Carry on. I mean, like, this is. This is much better than getting that handed in. I completely agree. Professor Hal is here. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. You thought I was making that up earlier. Well, I wasn't. Here he is. What do you want? Question or answer? Before I answer the question about snails, which you got so horribly wrong. I looked it up, mate. I looked it up on the interweb. So stick that in your professorial pipe and pipe. And by the way, for the avoidance of doubt, hemoglobin is a porphyrin and not a protein. But let's go to snails. I'm not having that. He's a PhD student. You're just a professor. Carry on. Right, so if you put snails from a shop to eat in a freezer, they're going to freeze. It's nothing to do with the slime. It's all to do with the saltiness of the snail. When they hibernate, they put a slimy seal over the mouth of their shell. That is a red herring, James. It is not. It's a snail. It's a red herring. It's a snail because snails have got salt and that depresses the freezing point of the water in the same way as antifreeze does in the engine of your car. Yes. And therefore the water will only freeze at, say, minus five, minus ten or. -20 yes. But somewhere down the line, it will freeze. In the same way, if you put a sealed bottle into the freezer, that too will freeze. Yes. So it's to do with the saltiness? It's both. If it makes you happier, it makes me happier. Give him half a round of applause. Thank you. Andrew is in Stevenage. Andrew, question or answer? It's a partial answer, James. Give me a partial answer. Oh, I've got two of you and I've only got a minute left, so be quick. What have you got? Why do you think? There are quite a lot of theories, but the only one that I get an actual answer for was the magnum. The first recorded naming of a magnum was Robert Burns in a poem, and it was an abbreviation of the latin magnum bonum for a large. Good thing. Oh, yeah, that's nice. Of course. Oh, I like that you get around. What are your qualifications? I'm a delivery driver for the wine society and I tried to track down an empty methuselah to fill it with chocolate milk. That'll do nicely. Especially the chocolate milk angle. Well played. And I think Joel in Manchester might be able to add to that. Can you, Joel? Yes. Basically, it's not babylonian. It's not babylonian kings, it's actually biblical characters. Yes, well, no, I think it's biblical characters, one or two of whom were also babylonian kings. But anyway, crack on, because we're going to run out of time. So it's all intertwined with the way that church. Sorry, the church, spread alcohol across Europe, including distillation and various bits. So it's their influence on the history of alcohol qualifications. Wsat level two and work for a very preeminent wine merchant. Beautifully done. Beautifully done. And of course he's right, because, I mean, all monasteries had distilleries attached. Breweries. Or, I mean, Dom Perignon most famously. So that would explain, not necessarily why they chose that, but it's a bit. We know more than we did when Daphne and Chelsea rang in with the question. And that's it from me for another day. What an amazing show. Thank you so much. It'll be absolutely rubbish tomorrow, so don't miss it. Tomorrow from ten, here's Sheila Fogerty, Daphne and Chelsea. I'd watch that sitcom, wouldn't you? Yes, absolutely. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.