Why Roger?

Three minutes after twelve and time for mystery hour. The only hour of radio that comes to you with two cast iron guarantees. The first is that if you pay attention, you will know more by 01:00 than you do now. And the second is that you will have the pleasure of at least one laugh out loud moment. Never, ever, ever had any request for refunds on either of those guarantees. I should stress, though, by way of small print terms and conditions, that this is on the radio. This is the bit you do in a really fast voice, isn't it, on the adverts. So I'll try and do it in a really fast voice. The knowledge you received by 01:00 today may not actually improve the quality of your life in any way. It may not be knowledge for which you find yourself grateful, or indeed knowledge that you can recall at any point subsequent to 01:00 today. The management accepts responsibility only for the pledge that you will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. Copyright conditions apply. Oh, wow. Even with the jingle coming off at the end there, it's astonishing. And the way it works is this. You ring in with a question, someone else rings in with the answer. It's a little bit more complicated than that. Don't ring in with boring questions about cars. Try to avoid questions that we've dealt with in the past. I appreciate that's a little difficult if you're new to the programme, but there is a wonderful archive over at LBC Dot co dot UK dot, and you can check what questions have been asked in the past. It's quite funny. It's quite a diverting feature on the website, regardless of whether or not you're checking to see if your question has been asked before, because some of the answers are up there, some of them are funny, some of them are stupid, ridiculous. It's all good. It's all good, okay? That's the point. And the way that we do it is similar to the newspaper features, the magazine columns that you're familiar with, the notes and queries, the Q and A's. The point is that you're not allowed to look anything up when you answer the question. So what we do, and it sounds a little bit pompous, but hey, we celebrate knowledge, education, illumination. I think actually 2016, more than any other year since we started doing this, has become almost a move in the opposite direction, where knowledge and learning and education are frowned upon. And we should just go with our gut feelings. And if you dont like it, get over it. Its actually working stuff out is profoundly unfashionable experts. Country doesnt like experts anymore. Evidence is meaningless. You can prove anything with facts. Mystery hour now is a lonely bastion of learning and expertise trying to hold back an international flood of people who celebrate, indeed congratulate, ignorance, which probably is overly politicizing. What is essentially just a sort of mystery phone in what is the question to which you currently need an answer? Zero. 345-606-0973 you'll only hear me say the number when I have a phone line free for you to provide an answer or to ring in with a question. And I currently have two phone lines free, which will not be sustained for long, so do not hold back. If you've got a question, call me. If you hear someone else ask a question to which you know the answer, it's even more important that you ring. Let's go first to Langdon Hills in Essex, where Dan is. Dan, question or answer? Question, please. James. Go on, mate. My daughter is five years old in year one at school, and she is currently learning her time. Play balls. Yes. During this weekend's practice session, she said to me, daddy, why do we learn times tables up to twelve? And I said, well done. Let's pick up classic parenting moments, chapter 77. I literally had no idea what to say. I was tempted to reference mummy or father Christmas, but I refrained. And, yeah, two questions. First of all, how is she getting on with her time stables? Really good. Is she good? Because if she's having trouble, the things that we did, there are these songs in the car. You can put them on in the car, some songs where they learn them. And so when she gets onto the tougher ones, like the eleven s and the nine s, you can download these songs and stick them on in the car. Second question. How many inches in a foot? What was the second question? How many inches are there in a foot? Twelve. And when would we be? Sort of in the days before calculators and before metric measurements were brought in. What were we doing most of our measurements with? Twelve. And therefore, why would you need to know the 13 times table? And why would you stop learning the eleven and twelve s after everything went metric if you'd been doing it that way for decades? But we're now living in a modern society where everything is metric. Yeah. It's not, though, is it? Because there are still two. There's still twelve. Yeah. I mean, that. That's an argument, but there are still twelve inches in a foot. Very true. So I'm going to take a round of applause for that, unless you want to call foul. Could you give a round of applause but leave it on? What else could it be? Come on, Dan, how do you know this? It's imperial measurements, because twelve was a crucial number. I mean, going right back to the bible. Okay, I'll give you another one. How many hours in a day? How many. How many hours in half a day? How many numbers on the clock? You nearly asked how many hours in a day then. Yeah. And you just said 24. And I'd have said, divide it by two, because you get that from your 12th. Because you get that from your twelve times table. What are 212? 24. Clocks. Clocks. And I nearly really committed a terrible faux pas then. Clocks and twelve inch rulers. Yes. I'm taking a round of applause before something terrible happens. If I'm wrong. If I'm wrong, I'll give it back, Dan. Thank you. Paul is in Chesham. Paul, question or answer? First question. Carry on. Right, okay, I've just changed taxi firm and we're on two way radio, and when we get our jobs come through, we have to say, roger. Why not Trevor? Why Roger? It's the phonetic Alphabet, isn't it? Isn't it? No, it's. It's. It's radio. Military radio communication. So Roger and out. Roger being to say, right, no, off the right. Art for right after Roger. Why not Trevor? Well, because right begins with r, mate. Yeah, I know, but what is the symbolic with Roger? Well, they chose it at an early stage, I think they call procedure words or something like that. They chose it at an early sort of stage. It stands for received message received and understood. So they choose a word that can't be mistaken. So Roger doesn't really sound like anything else. No. Why are you arguing with me? I'm not arguing with you. You are arguing. You said no, but that's the definition of an argument, isn't it? Oh, all right, it's all. Calm down, Roger. No, it's got to mean something in military. Why? It does. It means yes. Yeah, I know it means yes, but what I'm trying to say is there must be sort of like the phonetics of it. Oh, is there some? I don't know. Nor do I. Right, put it out there, Roger, unless you want an argument. Roger and out. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Roger and out. I like that. Why Roger? I mean, I'm right, it means yes. Understood. Affirmation. Yes. But why Roger? Who chose it? Probably going back to the second World War. Are you? Well before. I mean, how old are radios? Marconi. When were they used militarily? There'll be answers there. So I've got questions on the board already that need answers, but I've also got room for a couple more questions now on the usual number. The. I'm going. I'm sticking with the twelves on the times tables, unless someone wants to challenge it. But the question that needs an answer now is why? Roger means yes. Sean's in Bishop Storford. Sean, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Sean. Balls. Pardon, sir? Balls. Oh, yes, sir. Recently misspent youth and recently watching the championships of snooker. The colors of snooker balls. Who decided what colors that they would be? That's a nice question, isn't it? I know. It's only because I was watching the recent championships with Selby and O'Sullivan and I was sitting there thinking, who decided it would be green, brown, blue, pink, black, red? Yeah. And why? Because, I mean, billiards was just a white ball and a red ball. Yeah. And then another ball with a dot on it, wasn't it? It didn't come from that. When someone pulled spots and stripes. Just make sense, doesn't it? But why reds, blues, yellows and browns, pinks and blues or. Internet. Um. You're on. Yeah, I'm sticking it on the board. Who decided what reminded me. It's died off a bit in the last couple of years, but people are still sending them, aren't they? Oh, well, you should do that. I'll do. Shout out. She'll do that. Now, actually, Sean, I shall do a public announcement, a public service announcement. What. What Sean is referring to is the messages that you get from people you barely know telling you every single boring detail of their pathetic existences and they arrive wrapped up in a Christmas card every year. People that perhaps you met in Lanzarote in 1979, getting in touch to tell you that Burt's had his bunions done this year and Doris is quite excited because they're thinking of getting a new greenhouse halfway through next year. Oh, and Trevor's done his GCse's. He's done ever so well. And you're not even sure who these people are, but they continue. It's just a mindset, a certain type of person who sends details of the minutiae of their year to absolutely everybody they know. If you get one of those, you have to ring me and read it. Okay? So if you doesn't have to be immediately, you can email me. James, BC dot co dot UK. You could tweet me, but I'll probably lose it. I get so many tweets now. Or you can just ring in randomly. It doesn't have to be relevant to the subject that we're discussing. Just have a word with the producer and we'll hopefully get you on air. And it is just brilliant. It's hard for me to explain. It really is a case if you had to be there, but you can tell from the fact that the last caller reminded me of it that it is worth being there. So if you get a round robin, that's what we call them. If you get a round robin, give me a ring and read out the most boring bits or the funniest bits, which is usually the same as the most boring bits. Mike's in Romford. Mike, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. Yes, Mike Rumford. When I was 16, my first job was working for the civil service and I had to sign the Official Secrets act. Then I was only with it for three years. 59 now. I was just wondering, does it ever run out or is it has to be renewed or whatever? Am I still covered by or what? For the stuff. For the stuff that you did during that three years? Yeah. Is that why you're asking? Well, it's work for customs and excise, but I signed it. But to this day, I still don't know whether I'm covered by it, even though I left the job after three years. Well, do you know? There's one way to find out, isn't there? There's only one way to find out. No. Yeah. Yeah. Tell me a massive secret now on live national radio, and if you get arrested, you'll know the answer to your question. So go on. What was the biggest secret? What was the biggest secret? They've all gone. Forgotten them all. I don't know. So, I mean, they extend it because there was something the other day when I was talking about the. Sorry to bring things down a bit, but when we were talking about the child abuse scandal the other day, someone sent me some clippings of how some official secrets act, that they were due to come out next year or this year, and they get put back another hundred years. So is there a sort of normal time limit on a signatory to the official secrets? That's what we're asking. Is it like a license so many years and then has to be renewed or something like that. So each individual signatory, what are they. How long are they signing up for? Forever or for a finite period of time? Yeah. I don't. I can't remember. I just signed it because it was my first job, I was 16, so I just did what I was told. If you break it, it's. No, it hasn't been a capital offence since 1981, so at least you won't get killed anymore. All right, that's fair enough. See? How about that? He wouldn't have known that if he hadn't rung me today. Hang on, I think they've got him. I think he's been broken down by mi six as we speak. 1215 is the time. Is there a time limit on an ordinary signatory of the Official Secrets act who chose the colours of the snooker balls? Why do we say Roger on the radio? And I've done the twelve times tables, but I'm always open to stewards inquiries. Time now is 1216, this is 21 minutes after twelve is the time, and mystery hour is underway. If you're an ordinary worker, civil servant, and you sign the Official Secrets act, is there a time limit on it? Is there a point at which you can tell everyone what you did? Or is it indefinite? It might be a silly question, that, but I like it. Who chose the snooker ball colours? I love that one. Why did we say Roger? I think we. I think I got that right. I'm fairly sure we've done it before, but the questioner wasn't satisfied with my attempt at answering it. So why do we say Roger on the radio? And of course, I've got room for any questions of your own as well. Quite a lot of you getting in touch to add coins to inches in the context of why we only. Why we learn twelve times tables and not ten or 15. And I'm happy to include coins when I said, because imperial, before we went metric and decimal. So before we went metric and decimal, twelve would be the key unit. Twelve old pennies in a shilling, twelve shillings in a pound. So twelve was the crucial message. I think that goes back to the Bible and beyond. But anyway, that's why we learned twelve times tables, not just tens, because we don't live in a uniquely decimal or metric world. Aaron is in Stratford. Question or answer? Aaron. Hi, James. It's a question. Oh, yes. Okay. So it's also another measuring question. This is relevant. This is actually more relevant a couple weeks ago, as I was making. As you can tell, I'm an american, so I was making pumpkin cheesecake for my british boyfriend on thanksgiving the other day. I tried to call in, but you were quite busy, but. Sorry about that. Oh, it's totally fine, but I was totally devastated when I found out that and Pete, actually, my boyfriend mentioned to me, like, did you remember to bring your american measuring cups? And I said, what are you talking about? Like, a cup's a cup. And he said, no, there's a difference between a British cup and american cup. And I, like, lost it, because obviously I was using an american recipe, and I was like, what are you talking about? I didn't know there was a difference between an american cup, because, I mean, it doesn't make. You'd think a cup was a cup, but what cup were you using? What would you. I mean, because we don't. When you say a cup, I mean, what were you just. Did you just get a cup out of the cupboard? Any old cup? No, no, no. Like, I. So I was at Morrison's. Luckily, they had an aisle for just baking. Like, you know, things that you would use in the kitchen, and they have measuring cups, you know, like teaspoons, and, you know, things of that nature. But then also, like, measuring cups. And. Is one uk cup different from one us cup? It is, but I don't think cup is a unit of measurement in the UK. Well, I mean, you. Well, it is, actually. You guys do have it because. I mean, because I bought a british and that was different from a us one, or. Well, I'm going to have to be quite diplomatic here. I don't think it was. I think the reason why the cheesecake was so disgusting is because you're a rubbish cook. He actually liked it. Oh, did he? Yeah. Come on. You gotta give me more credit than that. But cop isn't a thing in the UK. You found. It isn't, if you fact. Listen, I'm quite well qualified on this, for once, in that my wife has had a cookbook published on both sides of the Atlantic, and it had to be. I don't like to boast about my wife. I'm too busy boasting about myself. So I have. They had to rewrite the recipes for the. It was quite a complicated process because we use teaspoons and tablespoons as our measures, and you use. You go up to cups and there's no british equivalent to a cup. No, but that's not true. I bought. Yeah, but that was a us cup. No, no, no, it wasn't, because I honestly looked it up. I said, what's the difference between a British cup and american cup? A british cup is, I think, 170 milligrams. Really? And an American cup is 178, if I'm not mistaken. Oh, okay. No, I mean, you. If you've looked it up, you're probably right. So your question is why? Yeah, why is there a difference? I mean, because it doesn't make. It's not like it's tied to inches versus meters or anything like that. You know me like, it's. I mean, that's just ridiculous. No, but the American cup will be quartz and gallons and pints and the. No, it will. And the uk cup will be metric, probably because we didn't have a cup until it'll be imperial versus metric, ultimately. But that's. I don't know, I just. Well, hang on a minute. What's the question? In nice simple terms that everyone can understand, why is there a difference between an american cup and a British cup? All right. And we're talking about baking, not bras. Yeah. Yes, absolutely. 1225. Thank you. And I should. I mean, it's all very well misses ob, having published a book on both sides of the Atlantic, but I can't actually remember what they had to do with the recipes, except that they had to change them. So I've probably gone out on a. On a limb and I will fall off. I've just realized what going out on a limb means. There's a figure of speech. God, Miss Chiao is amazing. It means you're climbing out on a tree, doesn't it? You're going out on a limb and you're going to fall out of a tree. I've always wanted happy days, but we've got to get an answer for Aaron. So, come on, a uk cup versus a us cup, what is the difference? Well, why there a difference? Zero. 345-606-0973 Jonathan's in reading. Jonathan, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Jonathan. The Official Secrets act, there is no statute of limits on it. If you wish to go public, that is, writing a book, etcetera, you need to seek the permission of the attorney general. And if you don't, even if it's been 25 years and they consider that information to be damaging to the country, they will prosecute. Qualifications, ex military. That will do. And of course, what I got confused by was the difference between a human being and a document. So the stuff where they extend the release and they say, well, that's due to be published next year, cabinet office papers, that kind of thing. And they said, well, royal family related scandals, we're not going to publish that for another hundred years. It's the information being published that they're governing, not a person telling the story, because it's all on paper and it's all in archives exactly that. Very strong. When you say ex military, I mean, is this your field or is it something every ex military person would know? Um. I mean, we. Everyone that joins spy. He's a spy. He is a spy and he can't tell us he's a spy. Which is why it's just down there. Ah. What, me spy? No, James. No. Just a lowly. A lowly tank driver, mate. No. Lowly tank driver. You're. You're a spy? I'd love to be. That's what they all say. Okay, round of applause for Jonathan. For Jonathan the spy agent. Jonathan. Well played. 27 minutes after twelve is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 she's right. It's a tiny difference in a UK cup and a US cup. So why. Why is there a difference between and. It's such a tiny difference, to be honest, that it probably won't even affect your recipes that much. But if you're writing a recipe book for publication in America, you have to change everything into cups if you're doing it for someone in Britain. We very rarely use cup as a measurement. Cause you learn stuff on this program, don't you? Andy's in Slough. Question or answer, Andy? Answer. Carry on. It's to do with Roger. Roger used to represent r in the phonetic Alphabet way back when, the first invention of radios in the first world war and whatnot. Around that time, before Romeo. Before Romeo, it was changed to Romeo and basically it was the first letter of the word received. So you just used to say Roger? That's what I thought as well. Qualifications? History. Geek and ex military. Everyone's ex military. You a spy as well? Not that cool, no. Do you and Jonathan. Did you and Jonathan work as a team? No, I was a culture guardsman. I was Queen's personal bodyguard. I like to say, let's just do a Ray Liotta. There's no need for it, particularly at this moment, but I want to hear it. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. And thank you for coming, Andy. Have a round of applause. Have a round of applause. Kenny Everett. When I do sort of double up on the sound effects and stuff like that. James is in Brentwood. James, question or answer? Answer, James. Good afternoon. Carry on, James. What, to your snooker question. Good. There is and there isn't an answer. I'm going to sound a bit geekish. Bear with me, but I've been playing the game for 40 odd years. And have previously done some homework. What's your favorite? What's your highest ever break? Personally, about 42. It's not massive. No, it's not bad at all. That's three, three or four colors, isn't it? Yeah. Basically what it is, it's a snooker as we know it is a derivative. Derivative, if I want to say it, called pyramid pole. It started off as a. It sort of generated from bar billiards. Yes. Which were very popular in the british army in India. Okay. And the regiments that used to play in Jalapur, their cadets were known as snookers. First year cadets. And it was Neville Chamberlain who watched a player who was quite bad and he called him a snooker because he was inexperienced and didn't play the game well. And they come up with the idea of extending it out because it used to be just black and white balls and no one knows who actually decided what colours. Excuse me. But then they took it onto 15 reds, the six colours, and the game then came to the UK in the late 18th, early 19th century. So probably in the officers mess, it's exactly where it was played, where they had a lot of time on their hands and spent a lot of time coming up with amazing new challenges and wizard japes and brought it back to Britain like they did tonic water and polo. Yeah. And believe it or not, the professional game as we know it today, Joe Davis, the famous old player, he was instrumental in introducing it more as a sport than a pastime. And he actually started the first world championship in 1927 and won it every year until 1946. Not bad, is it? I'm trying to think something. I could start turning to a world championship and then win it every year for Tony. Probably talking about myself. That's the only thing I could beat everybody else at. And your qualifications are genuine enthusiasts? Yeah, I've been playing the game on and off. I've actually played Mister Steve Davis as an amateur many years ago, a couple of times. New Barry's manager as well. And I've been playing it and loving it ever since. It's interesting times for snooker, isn't it? Because I love snooker. I mean, I obviously don't know as much about it as you, but I could be very boring on the issue. But it's not what it was like. I mean, that massive final between Davis and Taylor, it's not on the same scale, is it, anymore? It is, actually. Over the last 15 years, the amount of tournaments has increased from six to seven. Yeah, but the tv audiences and the amount of people watching has diminished. It hasn't stopped it being growing in terms of prize money and popularity. You're right in what you're saying, that they don't put it on telly as much as they usually. I think it's one of the best sports on telly. I can watch it for hours on the telly. And it was good to see the UK's on last week. Selby beating O'Sullivan in the final was a treat. I'm going to give you a round of applause, James. Thank you very much. Hat trick for Jones. What you should have said. I said coach qualifications. You should have said snook a loopy. Please don't. Thank you for laughing, even though it was charity. Bless you. 1232 is the time and I'm a little late for this. My apologies to Philip Krisikos, who has the headlines for you, Britain. It is 25 minutes to one. And reluctant though I am to cast a cold shadow over the joy that is mystery hour, I should tell you that Marine Le Pen, the far right candidate in the looming french presidential election, has just announced a plan to withdraw all free education from what is currently described as foreign children. So I guess you have to reflect, if you believe in things like freedom, you have to reflect that the terrorists who want to change the very nature of western values and democracies are now winning. Well done. Let's cheer each other up and get back to mystery Hour. 1236 is the time. Questions that still need answers include, what's the difference between an american cup and a british cup? We're talking about baking, not bras. I think that's the only one left on the board, so I need some more of your questions as well. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Jill's and I've got a couple of freeze. I grab one while you can. Don't send me messages complaining that you can't get through. Just keep using redial. Jill's in Beckenham. Jill, what have you got? Question or answer? It's an answer about the measuring cup. Splendid. It's. Each of them is a half pint measuring cup, but an american pint is 16 fluid ounces and a british pint is 20 fluid ounces. So a half pint measuring cup is eight fluid ounces in America and ten fluid ounces in Britain. So not enough to massively mess up most recipes, but enough to merit knowledge of the distinction. Yes, I shared an apartment many, many years ago when I was an undergraduate with an american student, and she and I both cooked and she actually had to. To get her mom in America to send her an american measuring cup, because all her recipes were in american. And that means that there will be differences and you will have to adjust. But we don't usually use cup as a measurement in british recipes, do we? No, not usually. It's usually ounces or grams or pints. Or pints. You'd say half a pint of milk rather than one cup of milk. That's right. But when it comes to petrol, the same thing applies. Applies. You know, an american gallon is less than the british gallon because it's all based on eight pints. I didn't know that. Do we know why that is? Given that they probably brought it with them from Britain on the Mayflower. Do we know why there's a difference between an american pint and a british pint? I don't know. No. And I shouldn't ask because we're not really allowed supplementaries on mystery hour. But sometimes I just can't help myself. Jill, your qualifications, as you've explained, are pretty impeccable. So please accept, with my gratitude, this round of applause. Thank you. Another one? Not on my bedhead. Well, okay. That's probably a conversation better suited to. After the watershed. Jill. 1238 is the time. William is in Yeova. William, question or answer? Hi, James question. Go on. Basically, I like a good joke. I know you do. God bless you. Thank you. I was just thinking, what was the first, like, recorded evidence of humans making jokes? And is there sort of evidence on hieroglyphics, on Mayans making jokes? Oh, I love that. Maybe on a cave painting. Is there a joke on a cave painting or something like that? First or earliest recorded joke? Yeah, I reckon there might be an answer to that. It's a cracker, that, actually, William, let's just get it on the board as quickly as we can. The earliest recorded joke. And I'll take efforts at that, rather than necessarily definitely definitive, because it's funny. I love that. If you know the answer to William's question, what's the earliest recorded joke? Then give me a call on zero. 345-606-0973 I guess we have to. We cleared the board. Now everything's answered. We just need more questions. Twelve times Roger announced. Snookables. Official secret. Sacks. Cups. Yeah. So, earliest joke, please. If you know the answer to that, or you've got a question of your own, you know what to do. Paul is in Colchester. Paul, question or answer? Question, mate. Carry on, mate. Sonic booms right. This drives me nuts and has done for a while a fighter pilot. How loud do they hear a sonic boom? Because they're traveling faster than the speed of sound. They're sitting in a jet engine, but they're so loud that you can hear them dozens and dozens of miles away. So, I mean, how would you mean how loud? That's how he, what, in decibels or, I mean you can hear him 30, 40 miles away. A sonic boom, but sound. Yeah. Okay, he's got comms and he's got a crasher mat on, but they're so loud. I mean, the sounds going to be behind him because he's traveling faster than it. That's what I think the answer is. Is it? By the time, by the time. By the time it makes a sound, his ears are miles away. Yeah, but not that many miles away because you can hear it 30 miles away. Yeah. Far enough away not to damage his ears. No, it's pitiful, mate, what you heard. I didn't actually, but I sounded like piffle. I'm not being silly. Did you say piffle? I'd like an answer to that question. I don't think you've got it. But you didn't ask the question. Right. How loud does a pilot hear a sonic boom? That's like saying how long is a piece of string? Depends where the pilot is. And the answer is he's far. Yes, it does. Well, have you ever, have you ever gone to the space of sound? Yeah, many times. I don't believe you. What? You've just been rude now. What, on Concorde, you mean? No, mate, no, no, no. Space shuttle plane. Socialist. You probably used to travel on Concorde a lot. Yeah, that's absolutely right, I did. Well, I don't understand what the question is and I can't work out whether you're funny or just a bit annoying. Yeah, both normally is what people accuse me of. Yeah, okay, Sonic. Well, there is a question in there somewhere, so if you can work out what it is, give us a call and tell us. Terry is in Matlock in Derbyshire. Terry, question or answer? Question, please, carry on, Terry. Since my wife passed away, I obviously have to do all the housework and one of the things I have to do is wash in. And I'm wondering why there's a three minute delay on the door opening on the washing machine once the cycle is finished. Why is there such a long delay before you can open the door? Terry, mate, can I say something? And you promise not to get upset with me? That is one of the most boring questions I've ever heard. On this driver the other day, I was in a rush to get out. I had to wash machine, thought, well, rather than leave the washing in the machine while I'm out, I'll take it out and hang it up and all. But it seemed forever. Yeah. I mean, I've stood there like a cabbage waiting for this. Click for the door to. What did you need? What did you need? A socks, was it? No, no, I wanted to get out. So you wanted to hang up the washing before you could leave the house? Yeah. Well, there are two possible answers to this, as I see it, Terry. Thank you. Buy yourself a mangle. No. What? One is heat and one is water. So, I mean, I know what you're going to say next. You're going to say, well, why don't they just build that into the cycle? But I think that it has to cool down. And if you opened it too quickly, it's bought, you might have boiling water. It's cool down. It's been rinsed in cold water. All right, that's a strong answer. And the other one is, it's still draining the water. So if you open it too early, you're going to flood the kitchen? No, because the pump empty the while it's spinning. The pumps pumping the water out. We've got a live one here. The pump stops. All right, we've got a live one here. We got a live one here. Seriously? What? Why is there a three minute delay on Terry's washing machine? That's what we want to know. Yep. Do you know, Terry, it's a nice part of the world where you are. I am. I always think of Gulliver's kingdom when I speak to someone from Matlock. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's good. I've been there for a long time. It's not. Is it still there? It's still there. Is it really? Ho ho ho. If you grew up in the Midlands, you'd have the adverts on ATV and central for Gulliver. Ho ho ho. He he. Gulliver's kingdom's the place for me and my dad and mum. They never took me to Gulliver's kingdom. I'm 44 now, Terry, 44. And I've never been to Gulliver's kingdom. I think there's a couple of them elsewhere in the country. I want to go to. The one in Matlock, the original Gulliver's kingdom. Matlock Bath. Matlock, Derbyshire. Matlock Bath. You're on. Right, let's go. Why does Terry's washing machine take three minutes to finish after finishing, 1244 is the time Charles is in Stockport. Charles. Question or answer? It's an answer about the pilot. Oh, yes. Sonic booms. Well, he never hears the sonic boom, does he? Because he's traveling faster than the speed of sound. Thank you. Stupidest question ever. No, it wasn't that bad. Well, it was a bit. So he's going faster. He would never reach his ears because he's going faster than the speed of sound, which is why he's caused a sonic boom. Boom. That was not a sonic boom. Where did you get that from? I can't remember why we had that. That was a well played round of applause for Chuck. Yeah. Hang on, hang on. You're not gonna be rude, are you? No, no, no. Good. Why do you always ask the first caller on mystery hour whether it's a question or answer? You only allowed one question, mate, on mystery hour. But no one. The first call is you're only allowed one question, but you're only allowed one question or one answer. You're not allowed to do, you know. Okay, so someone can phone up and ask you that, then? They could, but they have to get through the producer first. What are your qualifications? Bombshell. Just behave yourself. What, um. What are your qualifications for the sonic boom? He's gone. He's lost his round of it. Ringing back. Seriously. There's a round of applause going begging in Stockport. 1245 is the time. Mark rises. One is the time. Sheila, with you in about nine minutes. Before that, we need an answer to Terry's washing machine dilemma. Why does it take three minutes to free the lock on the door after it's finished doing the washing? And what's the earliest recorded joke, do we know? I love that question. I really hope we can have a crack at an answer. Klaus is in Esha. It's a very topical name. Klaus. Question or answer? It's an answer. James. Good morning, machine. Oh, yes. It shouldn't take three minutes to open, but that's besides the point. It goes back to the fifties and sixties when you had little spin dryers. Yeah, because you could open the lid when you're still going around and people get their arms broken and stuff. But that's why you couldn't do it then. Why can't you do it now? They just modified the legislation. Anything with spinning drum had to have a safety lock on it. Ah. So because it spins, then after it has finished, it might still be spinning because it's on an axle. So even though the power has got an angle on it. Yeah. It's got better safe. Better safe than sorry, then, in a nutshell, qualifications. Just stop saying I picked up over the years. And why do you say it? Shouldn't be three minutes, so. But there needs to be some sort of delay there to ensure that, you know, she's getting drunk. You know, I was talking the other day about when we. When you get to a certain age class and you start thinking young people are awful and misbehaving, and you completely forget what a pratt you were yourself in your youth. I once stuck my arm in a tumble dryer to win a bet. Absolute pranny. Right. Qualifications? Just to solve this thing I'll pick up over the years. All right. There you go. He's picked it up over the years like lint in a tumble dryer. Well, play class. Couple of finalized free, if you're quick. Zero. 345-606-0973 earliest recorded jokes. The only question still on the board. Jeff's in Holland Park. Geoff, question or answer? Question, please, mate. Carry on. So these skyscrapers are going up all over London. The. When they put the cranes on the top of them, when the building's done, how do they get the crane back down? In pieces. Yeah, but they're heavy, aren't they? Yeah, but they use another crane. They use another crane. What, when the building's actually finished? Yeah. Bring another crow. Portable crane comes in to dismantle. Portable cranes put up and take down permanent stationary crane. 50, 60, 70 floors up. Yeah. And the rest. Well, what do you think they do with it? I have no idea. Yeah. No, I mean. But what would the alternatives be? That. Because there's that myth about, you know, everyone's getting their. It's got to come down one way or another. But I didn't think they could get another crane to bring them down on a sort of, you know, 60 story building. I mean, I just had no idea. I'm pretty sure that's how they do it. But now you've made me think now that I'm probably wrong. I mean, if it's a three or four story building, then, yeah, cranky. Sort of. How did they get it up in the first place, Jeff? Well, they do that in bits and pieces, didn't they, with other cranes, and then they just do it in reverse. Just think about it. Here's what you do, mate. It's what you do. Film them putting one up, then press rewind and see, that's how they take it down. About six months. I'm pretty sure that we've worked out between us. But I'll leave it on the board in case anyone listening. Compiling with a definitive answer. It's surprisingly popular among crane drivers. Well, not surprisingly popular among everyone. But crane drivers are quite lonely up there in the. And they prefer to listen to something like LBC rather than music, usually. We were going to do the show from upper tower Crane once, but the insurance was too high. And also getting all the equipment up there and stuff like that was actually. That was back when I did. That was back when. Maybe I could do that now, actually. I reckon I might be able to throw my way. I don't want to go up there anymore. Paul is in Guilford. Paul, question or answer? It's an answer, which means it must be the earliest joke, because I think we've done everything else. Yes, it is. Yes. Weirdly enough, I remember reading this on BBC website years ago. I wanted to tell so many people for ages. The earliest. The earliest recorded joke. Yeah, it's about 2000 years ago, but it's ancient sumerian and it is basically says a woman did not fart in her husband's lap. And that's the early. Yeah, that's the earliest one that's ever been written down as far as I can. Why is that a joke, though? Well, the British rarely find german humor hilarious, but, you know, they don't really understand ours, so. No, but I mean, I just explain it to me. Not. Not why is it funny, but why is it even a. I mean, lady, don't say the f word again. I have no idea. All I remember is I remember reading it was that. And I thought, that's an odd thing to think of, but I guess it's flatulence is one of the funniest things that men find funny. Always, always tells me that it's terrible. So. Yes, um. And. And so the lady hadn't done it in her husband's lap. Yes. And I don't. I have no idea why. I have no idea. No. Um. No, but that was it, that. It was just on BBC website years ago. Where did they find it? I can't remember now. I just remember that particular part. Okay. No, I mean, just don't remember. Yeah, no, you're going to get a round of applause because I've double checked and you're right, actually. That weird piece of thing, I think it's about two and a half thousand years ago, but I'm really bad on my date. 1900 BC, if it's sumerian. There you go, then you know more than me. I just looked it up, mate. Okay. Totally, totally cheated. Something which has never occurred. So it's a. It's an old pro, it's a proverb, but it is also a joke. And this is from 1900 BC. And in the modern world, it would be southern Iraq. Something which has never occurred since time immemorial. A young woman did not break windfar in her husband's lap. I just remember that and I thought, it's such a weird thing to think something which has never occurred since time immemorial. A young woman did not hurt in her husband lap. I don't understand why that's funny. Well, yeah, I don't either. But you got. You've got a round of applause. It's well done. And the oldest british joke now dates back to the 10th century and is a little bit. Well, it's Anglo Saxon, so obviously it involves appendages. Round of applause for Paul. No, stop. Stop. Everyone's keeping count. Wayne in Basildon must be way behind the field now. He used to be the only one that kept count. He hasn't been on for weeks because caroline doesn't like him. Mark is in slough. Mark, question or answer? Hello. I've got two questions. I'm going to go with the festive one, if that's okay. It depends what you cleared with the producer, mate. And then it's not rude or anything like that. I listen to your show all the time. We've been on quite a few times and it seemed very apt for Christmas, I want to know. It's actually on behalf of Kirstie, my work colleague. Okay. We serve pigs in blankets with turkey at Christmas because it's a very strange combination. I'm a chef, she's a chef. No, it's not what you asked the producer. And if you had, she'd have said, that's a rubbish question, mate. Move along. My apologies to Kirsty. Mike's in high wicker. Mike, question or answer? Hello, James. Answer for the crane question. Yes. Little big meccano sets, they build the cranes in situ. Yeah. And then when they're finished, they take them down piece by piece. So with a crane, with the use of cranes, but with. Also with steeple jacks, you get up there and physically unbolt sections apart. But you'd need a big crane to bring down that top bit, wouldn't you? You mean the long arm or. You wouldn't know. You would. You could just lower it down from what's left of the crane. Exactly in the same way you would get it up. You wouldn't necessarily need a crane to get it up. You could have hauled it up. So they just bring it down in pieces starting at the top. Yeah, like you do, you know, like they used to get pianos up in top floors of rooms in Amsterdam. You know. I like it. Qualifications. 15 years in construction management. That'll do. So. So if you've got a massive crane that needs bringing down, what? How do you start? Do you start by sending. I mean, you've got people up there with winches or what? Why does that massive first bit come down? It's okay. In small pieces. Yeah. Take it down. Low down. Actually, fairly straightforward. Cranes are fascinating. Cranes come up all the time on mystery hour. And we mean, we've answered most of the questions, so we have to avoid them again and again, but everyone's fascinated. How do you get it? Actually, when you think about it, it's quite obvious. How else would you do it? But I. Turn. Mike. A round of applause. John's in. Wilson. I've got 20 seconds. John. But I thought I'd answered all my questions this week. I've got an earlier joke. Oh, hang on. Yeah. So you applaud it too quickly? Well, I don't know. We've kind of gone definitive on that. But what is. What have you got? He was 6000 years ago gone. In the garden of Eden. Yeah. He lost Adam. What's that thing hanging off you? Yeah, that's the oldest british joke that goes back about ten centuries. But of course, I think you thought you were being funny. That's it for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear. That's tomorrow morning. Did you know me say yesterday that I'll see you again on Monday morning? I didn't notice that, no, because clearly I'm as stupid as you. I thought it was Friday. I had such a big deadline, I got it filed before I came out, so I spent the whole show thinking it was Friday. Anyway, here is Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much, James. It's not 03:00 but when it is, we all know that parental support is vital in a child's education. How would you feel about parents being graded? You yourself being graded by the school when it comes to your contribution. After two. As the home affairs select committee launches its immigration inquiry today, Labor's Andy Burnham suggests the left's failure to discuss immigration openly, properly undermines even the safety of our streets. Is he right or is he being a bit inflammatory there? And after the news, this was David Cameron in the House of Commons after the bloody Sunday inquiry was published. There is nothing equivocal. There are no ambiguities. What happened on bloody Sunday?