What do they do with amputated limbs?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien weekly delve into what I guess constitutes more needed light relief than almost any other period during all our years together. It is your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. A quick hello to Binny, who picked me up yesterday and insisted that I say hello to him during mister. There you go, Binny. All your dreams have come true. If you have a question that needs an answer, no matter how silly or serious, scientific or spurious it may be, there's probably room for you on my switchboard. If you would like to find out, then dial zero 345-606-0973 if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same. I will ask you what your qualifications are. You don't have to provide certificates, but you do have to provide a convincing account of why you know what you know, because I won't know for certain that you're right, but I could be persuaded by the quality of your qualifications. You still with me at the back? Excellent. Four minutes after twelve is the time and mystery air is upon us. So if you have a who, why, where, what, when, whither, all of these things, then you know what to do. Should we crack straight on this week? I think we should actually get rid of the lengthy introductions and just get as many questions on the board as possible as quickly as possible. The number remains the same throughout, whether you're ringing in with a question or an answer. And the only rules you need to bear in mind are dullness. And that's a fairly pointless rule, actually, because I'm the arbiter of what's dull and what isn't. And quite often I'm even disagreeing with the people working on the program. So I end up getting asked a question that I thought was really dull. But of course, I'm not answering the phones, so it's a fairly stupid rule. Don't ask me questions about cars unless you know how I can fix the locks on the front doors of my Volvo estate because the little motors have gone. I got a lovely tweet last week of a fellow who works down at Chelsea Cloysters. I forgot to reply to it. I was only joking when I said I wanted a freebie. So don't ring in to fix my car doors. That would just be weird. That across the line from Alan Partridge pastiche into Alan Partridge homage, I think that's a crucial no one wants to cross that line from pastiche to homage. And the other rule is repetition. But that's fairly pointless as well, because you're not going to know that it's repetitive, are you? Because you wouldn't ring in and ask a question that you already knew the answer to, which means you didn't hear the person who asked it last time get an answer. So I don't know why we've ever had any rules on mystery hour. Brexit's breaking everything. Turns out mystery hour rules are a waste of time all along. Six minutes after twelve is the time. I'm also having my photograph taken at the moment, so you may have detected a slight sort of tensing of my facial muscles as I attempt to look very magisterial and author. Excuse me a minute. I'm just going to look straight down the camera lens for this one. Well, hello. Jordan is in Nottingham. Jordan, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Jordan. Last Friday, this question was sort of asked by someone a bit more powerful than I. What came first, the wall or the wheel? You're not supposed to do satire on mystery hour, and we're not really supposed to do politics either. That's brilliant. That's a genuine question. It's a lovely question reference for people who are a little confused by what you're talking about. We're now going to find out just how on the ball, Ivan is. They say a wall is medieval. Well, so is a wheel. A wheel is older than a wall. That's to what you refer? It is indeed, yes. So what came first, the wheel or the wall? Exactly. How are you? Who are you hoping might be able to answer this question? I'm guessing an archaeologist, historian. Do we include cave walls? No, I think it has to be construction. He might have a point then. You never know. Stranger things have happened. Absolutely, Jordan. Thank you. What came first, the wall or the wheel? Zero. 345-606-0973 marks in Sheffield. Mark. Question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on. Mark. Bit macabre, but go on. If you sever a limb. Oh, boy. Yeah, yeah. And you go to hospital and they can't reattach it. Who actually owns the limb? I'm going to explain myself at this point. I think you should. I'm a firefighter. Okay, so this is experienced, this in the past. And so this is chatting. Chatting at work and someone's saying, yeah, but who actually owns it? Yeah, obviously the humor comes in, but obviously you start discussing that when you get tossment. Can't retach it. What happens to the end? Could you. Could you take it home? Could you take it home? I think you can. I think it's yours. I think it's yours. But most people don't want to keep it because there was. I'm sure there's a case anyway, I'll put it on the board. So if. If you're unfortunate enough to lose a limb and medical attempts to reattach it fail, to whom does the limb belong? It's got to be you, hasn't it? You have the choice to take it home. Or can they refuse you on some sort of biohazard grounds or something like that? Would you have to have some sort of treatment? There's a whole raft of questions I can ask you about this, James, but I think the first one is about. Let's just start with that. Yeah? Who owns it? Who owns. If you lose a limb and they can't reattach it, I'm pretty sure it's going to be you. But I'd love to know the authoritative account as to why eight minutes after twelve. So, what have we got? What came first, the wheel or the wall? It's like that classic riddle that my dad used to torture me with when I was a kid, who said, if my peacock laid an egg in your garden, who would it belong to? So if I lost a leg and you couldn't reattach it in your hospital, who would the leg belong to? The peacock question is a riddle that doesn't have a proper answer. The leg question should have. John's in Buckhurst Hill. John, question or answer? Hello, James question. Carol. Great show. Great book. Thank you. I haven't been plugging it enough lately. I've sort of dropped the ball a bit. I agree. How to be right in a world gone wrong in all good bookshops. Now, carry on. You should. Mine's a little bit Brexit related. Hold on. If I was a Brexiteer. Yeah? Can I. You're not allowed to use that word on this program. Sorry, John. No, but in this stance, I think you can. Go on, then. If I was a Brexit or a Brexiteer, can I put that on my census as a religion? So the question I'm asking is, what is religion? Or when is religion religion? Well, wasn't there a case in Australia recently in the census there, where a fellow retained the legal right to describe himself as a Jedi? I think. Or that was it, I think. Didn't they have Jedi in this country on the census? They have put that on the census. So you could put Brexit up, bearing in mind, I believe, say someone, if I don't believe in Brexit, but if I believed in Brexit, then I would. It would be my religion, so I would. What is the definition of a religion for the purposes of the census? And when we answer that, we'll be able to work out whether Brexit fits into that category, I think so. The problem is that you can never prove what someone believes and doesn't believe. And all the censors can do is reflect what they say they believe. So, you know, I could be a pastor Farian, for example. I think that was the australian case in Austria. It was a fellow who wears a colander on his head or something like that. And he has it on his driving licence that he is officially a pastor Farian because he's a secular atheist and he wanted to undermine the role that religion plays in public life. He did so rather well. It gets misreported a little, but that's not Britain. You want to know in the UK, what are the criteria that have to be met to qualify as a religious belief that you are allowed to put down on the census? On the census? Yes, on the census. I shall do what I can for you, John. 1211 is the time. So we have got the wheel and the wall, the sadly, unfortunately detached limb and the religion. It's just something for everybody there, isn't there? Historians, what came first, the wheel or the wall? The more scientifically minded. If my leg. If I lost a leg and he couldn't get it back on in hospital, would I be allowed to take it home? And just for everyone else, what's the definition of religion? Just for the purposes of the UK census? Where are we going next? Adam is in Newport. I always hear that song when I here of Newport. But I digress. Question or answer, Adam? It's a question, James. Were you at the football the other day? I watched it on the tv, luckily enough, so I have my hair cut at the time and I was jumping up and down. You need to be careful jumping up and down when you're having your hair cut and you could lose an ear. I was told exactly that from the person cutting my hair. Two kiddo. Mister Harris players in that side, you know, former kid of Mister Harris players. We take our pleasures where we can at the moment as kid of Mister Harris fans. But you had Mickey Dimitri coming on quite early. One of our. So you should sir as well. Being a Kidminster fan, I mean, we've all got our crosses to bear. One of our alumni, and Wes Morgan, of course, playing for Leicester, probably the most famous of the Kidderminster alumni. But we're doing less than well at the moment, so we take our pleasures where we can find them. Question or answer, Adam? It is a question, sir, and my question to you is, when you hear adverts on the radio, yes. Whether it's for insurance capsules or well known swedish furniture, why does it always say excludes Ni? They're making a specific offer, you know, 20% off or, you know, buy one, get one free. It always caveats with excludes Ni. So I am as well. Now, Crikey, we've learned anything in the last few years, it's that we don't pay enough attention to northern Ireland, ordinarily speaking, and I'm going to completely ignore any. Any reference to Brexit or backstops in this point as well. No backstops allowed. You're on. Why do. Why do all these ads? I haven't even noticed it myself. I'm usually busy sort of preening myself during the break, so I don't pay that much attention. But why does it say excluding Northern Ireland? That should be quite easy to answer. 1213 is the time. Gerard is in Mitcham. Gerard, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Gerard. The question to the. Who owns the limb? Yes, the person owns the limb, because my brother in law had his leg amputated and he was offered the choice whether he wanted to take the leg home with him and have it buried or have a donation to science. And he said he would donate it to science. So he was offered the opportunity and he. And obviously he took it. And would anybody have checked that he had buried it or could he have kept it in the fridge? Well, freezer. That would be down to the person involved. That's what I mean. I mean, you don't need to provide evidence that you've buried it. You could. I mean. Look, I'm going to be a little grim here, Gerard, I hope you don't mind. Well, I do, because, you know, I've answered the question and, you know, I don't understand why you have to be grim, because it would be very unusual, I think, that if a person took the leg home and put it into a freezer and take it out, the odd time to have a look at it. Yes. What would be the point of that? Well, that was not what I was going to suggest. I was going to ask if you're allowed to give it to your dog. Well, that would be a horrendous. Cruel and very unusual thing. Why would a person give a piece of your own body to your dog? They really love their dog. He didn't. It's the ultimate sacrifice, Joe. Yeah, but he didn't have a dog. No, I'm not talking specifically about your brother in law's leg. I'm talking about a theoretical leg now and a theoretical dog. Would you be allowed to give your leg to your dog if you wanted to? I think you are. I think someone told me, Gerald, I know things are degenerated. I think you'd have to cook the leg first. Would you have to cook the leg first? Want to give the leg to a raw piece of meat, to a dog, in case he developed, which got a taste for raw meat. This would be a consideration. Certainly you wouldn't want to be giving the dog ideas, but I've got a feeling I once spoke to somebody on this program who had a hip replacement operation and they'd taken home their old hip bone for their dog. Does that sound plausible to you? Well, let me put it like this. I also had a hip replacement operation. And I did ask the consultant at the time, before I had the hip replacement, could I take my hip bone that removing home with me, and obviously put it into a pickling jar. And I was told in absolute terms, no, because what actually happens is they donated the science for future research. Okay. But in the context of the only amputated limb that you and I have ever had personal experience of, you are allowed to keep it. Yes, indeed. Which answers the question. Qualifications. Your brother in law took his brother in law. Yeah. Took his. Took his leg home. Yes. Fantastic. This is for you. You don't get a Rayleigh otter. It was your brother in law's leg, man. Yes, but it's the fact. It was my brother in law who experienced. My brother in law. I'm Ray Liotta. If you build it, they will come. You didn't come. I did. You've got two legs. Yeah, but I. But I have the replacement hip. That's not what anybody asked about your replacement. Your brother in law might have got a Rayleigh otter, but to be honest with you, it's not guaranteed. My brother in law, unfortunately, died from a subsequent because of the cancer that was in his leg. Could not be, obviously was not taken away because of the. When the leg was amputated. So it was amputated in vain? No, it wasn't. It was. It just didn't fix the job. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. And, well, I'm going to give him a posthumous Rayleigh otter, if that's alright with you and me. A clap and him. A posture is rainy after. Okay, so this is for you. May I ask what your brother in law's name was? Your late brother in law? PJ Holey. Okay, this is for PJ. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Are you happy now, Gerard? Very happy. Thank you, James. God bless you. The best of James O'Brien. And what came first, the wheel or the wall? We've answered the question about amputated limbs to the satisfaction of the good firefighters of Sheffield. What's the definition of a religion in the context of the british. The UK census? And why do so many advertisements contain the phrase excludes Northern Ireland? Mike's in maidenhead. Mike, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. The bearskin hat. So I was just up at Windsor Castle photographing the guards changed there and I noticed that the chinstrap underneath the hat actually goes under the bottom lip. Why is that? It seems like quite a large bit of apparatus to have on the head so unsecurely. So you just mean the discomfort and the inconvenience. It should be quite heavy and it doesn't seem very secure to be. Well, we should be able to get. We should be able to get an answer from the horse's mouth on that one, shouldn't we, really? Why does the best in hat that they wear. That the horse guards wear, why does it. Why does the thing go under their lip and not their chin? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Now I'm just thinking out loud. I was about to say, so they can talk, but that wouldn't. That wouldn't be an answer to the question. Exactly. Yeah, I think it would. Okay. Yeah, you're on. I like that. Okay, I'll try and get an answer. Thank you, Mike. Why does the horse guards bear? It is the horse guards, isn't it? That where the bear. Anyway, you know the ones. I mean, the big. The big bus. Bees. What, um. What's the reason for the strap going under the lip? Going under the mouth as opposed to under the chin? Christian is in Balham. Question or answer? Christian. Question, please carry on. Where does the term tongue in cheek come from? The reason I asked, it was mentioned the other day in my office, and then I said, where did it come from? And everybody automatically put their tongue in their cheek and did the action whilst trying to figure it out. We all just did that now. Excellent. Yeah. Thousands of people doing that. Trying to figure it out, really entertains me, whilst also ideally getting it out there. Was it. Is it. Is it not an early version of Chinny chinny reckon. Chinny reckon. Depending on where you grew up, you either said, chinny chinny chin or you said Jimmy Hill or you said Chinny reckon. And it was a thing you did to express skepticism about what somebody else was saying. Chinny chin chin. And you. Would you do something similar when you're saying something and you don't mean it yourself? We actually do it. So I say, oh, gosh, yeah, I do. I am really looking forward to Brexit. It's all going so well. And then I stick my tongue in my cheek and pull a slight face, you see? So that's not. You want to know where it started. Do people do that when they say? Because I've not seen the action apart from when trying to figure out where it comes from. So I don't know. Yeah, I do it. I've done it physically, I've done it. And I bet you have as well. I mean, I could do it now. I wouldn't. I wouldn't be, um, doing it just for effect. I'd be doing it for effect if I did it now. But I do that thing where you kind of pull a face. I'll find out for you, probably. Shakespeare is a catch all answer in these. So if we were doing a pub quiz together and none of us knew the answer, I just put Shakespeare down, because it often is, but I don't know. So there's no rounds of applause there. Zero. 345-606-0973 Paul's in Grove Park. Paul, question or answer? Answer. James. Carry on, Paul. It's the Brexit ear. If you could put that down on your census. Yes, you could put it down as a religion, but for it to be officially referenced, recognized as a religion on a census form, it would need 250,000 followers. Is that how they test it? This goes back to a few censuses ago. Put your teeth in, Paul, and try again. There was people putting down their religion was Jedi knight. Yeah. For it to be recognized as an official religion in the UK, it had to have 250,000 followers, which is why being a Jedi knight is now recognized as a religion in the UK. So you can put down anything you want, but it doesn't get onto the official list unless there's 250,000 people putting down this. Or 249,999 people putting down the same thing. Yep. Qualifications? I answered this question a few years ago, you know, what were your qualifications then? The exact same thing. Memory. You just remember it happening? Yeah, just. I've just remembered it happening. Okay. It goes back not to the last census. It was the census prior to that one. Fair enough. Round of applause. No, James, please. Please. I would like to give the round of applause to my granddad, please. Oh, that's lovely. Hang on, what's his name? Trigger happy. Trigger happy, there. We all call him pops. All right. This is for pops. That's lovely. Look at that. Thank you, James. Oh, thank you, Paul. Intergenerational kindness. We'll do a little bit more of that. Kevin is in Wandsworth. Kevin, question or answer? Kevin, in your own time, mate. Too slow. Harry's in. Oh, no, he's not. Who've we got? Bill's in reigate. Bill, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on, Bill. Right, so, you know when people have a can of drink and before they open up the can, they tap the lid that's at the top of the can, and they do it because they think it's going to stop it from fizzing up and, like, get all over them. Now, I think that's a lot of rubbish. I think it works. Should we have a fight? What? Your qualification. Let's have a fight. Yeah, I've done it. I've done it. I've done it. Yeah. What happened? I've done it with the kids. I've shaken it up deliberately and then tapped it and opened it and it's worked. Rubbish. I have. Clearly a liar. Yeah, I am. You're telling me that you. You've shaken a can of coke, tapped it a couple of times and then it hasn't. Stuff everywhere? Yeah. So if I go and do that now, it's gonna work? Yeah. Have you got one handy? I think so, yeah. I'm not gonna do it. No way. No way. I'm not. It's true. But I can only prove it to you through the power of science. So you have to go and get a can of coke. I mean, there is quite all right, I think. I think we've had this answered before and I think the answer is, yes, it does work. But I'm gonna put it on the board because it's a nice question, and if we get a proof that it works, will you do it for us live on the radio? Yeah. All right, cool. Thanks, Bill. He won't. He'll fib. Kevin is in Wandsworth. Kevin, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. Question. Carry on. I just wondered how they calculate how many stars are in the galaxy which and how many galaxies are in the universe. Blimey, Kevin, you got up early today. I was just watching a program with Brian Cox and he came out with a figure that was 200 billion stars in our galaxy and there's 200 trillion galaxies in our universe, and I just wondered how they come out with that figure. Yeah, I bet you did. So I do. Now let's find out if we can get. How do they know how many stars there are in a galaxy and how many galaxies there are in the universe? Brian, if you're listening, or Professor Cox, of course, if you're listening, you know what to do. Zero. 345-606-0973 Kevin, mind. How did you go? 1227 is the time and Peter is in dis in north. Hello, Peter. Question or answer? Hello, James, how are you? Very well. Actually, I've got a quick answer for you on the ring pool question. It's because, like, poisonous insects would sort of hide themselves under the ring pools, and people used to tap the ring pool to actually dislodge the insects before opening, in case they just fell into the drink and they were ingested. That's basically the answer for that. So it had nothing to do with stopping it being fizzy or making it? Not really, no. No, not at all. Qualifications? I've got no qualification as to that. I just like the old can of coke. That doesn't. That's another reason for tapping it. It doesn't answer the question of whether the other reason is true, does it? Well, I couldn't. I'm going to give you half a round of applause because, Gerard, the first call of this mystery app put me in such a good mood. Cars question. Oh, go on. Hang on, just excuse me one moment. First, I just have to prepare myself for this. Aha. So what? Go on. There's a. There's a extended warranty on V 40 and V 70. Volvo's at least. Yeah. Recall information website on Volvo cars UK. Are you serious? Yeah. You contact your dealer, give them your VIN number and they'll tell you, tell you where there's an extended warranty on that car and you could probably possibly get it done under warranty. Is this specific to the doors? It's the actuator, probably. If it's both doors. Yeah, I thought so. But if you might have an extended warranty, you can get it pressed on for now. Where do I find my VIN number? On your logbook. What? Moving out my comfort zone now, Pete. I'm not going to lie to you on your logbook. On my logbook? Your v five, is it? What. What sort of Volvo have I got? Your ownership got black one. Okay, you're on. Give him a round of applause. That was great work. I shall look into it. Too. Sweet. You're listening to Alan Partridge on mid morning matters on north Norfolk digital radio. No, you're not. Really? So Jones the engineer has made a cameo appearance. He hasn't done a mystery out for a while and he can see his little face is completely contorted in confusion. Because we never did car questions. It was the only rule of mystery hours. You're not allowed to ask questions about cars. But it's so long since Jones and I work together on a regular basis, he's unaware of my new incarnation as a petrol massive driver. Now, mate. Seriously. Vroom vroom. All over the place, bombing up and down the motorways, even doing parallel parking. The best of James O'Brien question. Still in need of answers. What came first, the wheel or the wall? I think we've done the religion. There might be a stewards inquiry on that one. The bearskin. Not a busby. They're different, apparently, but the bearskin worn by the guards outside Buckingham palace. Why does the strap go under the bottom lip rather than under the chin? Which would seem to make more sense, the origin of the phrase tongue in cheek. And does tapping a couple can get rid of excessive fizziness? Alistair is in. Wendover. Alistair. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's an answer to your guard's question. Yes. So it's regimental tradition. All the different regiments tend to wear them differently, so. Including the household cavalry, which you were first talking about? Yes. So the blues and royals will wear their chinstrap underneath their chin. The lifeguards will wear it underneath the lip. So there's no real reason for the differences except difference and distinction. Soldiers, being soldiers, will try and push the boundaries of what they're allowed to do. So each individual regiment would tweak the way they would wear something to try and stand them apart from either one other regiment or a battalion, even though they're wearing the same uniform. Any idea on origin of gates or where and when it began? Well, they've only been wearing the bearskin since early 18 hundreds. By 1813 1814, William IV turned around and said that all the guards regiments would wear them. So it's only since then it started to evolve. Prior to that, they used to wear the more of a traditional cocked hat and the lifeguards used to wear a big plumed helmet. Qualifications? I used to be a lifeguard dog in household cavalry. That'll do. Thank you. Thank you. I can't. I mean, I'm feeling quite generous with the ray liottas today, but that's not good enough. You need to have invented it. Well, I started it, James, in 1974 when, you know, Billy Baggins challenged me to go on duty with my strap under my bottom lip instead of under my chin to see if we could get it past the regimental sergeant major. 1237 is the time. Dave is in. Havent question. Oh, also the question about stars. Don't forget that one as well. Anyway, Dave, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on, Dave. It is regarding the speed of turntables. Record turntables, yes. So you have 33 revolutions per minute for the old lp's. Yeah. Got 45 revolutions per minute for the seven inch singles. Yeah. Prior to that you had 78. You did. If you add 33 and 45, you get 78. Is that a complete coincidence or is there some kind of math behind the speeds involved? Are you a freemason? I'm not a freemason. Well, then I can't tell you. Intriguing. I've got no idea. When did you first notice this? I think there is. I think there is a link because a 78 would be exactly in between. No, it wouldn't be. I don't. I've got no idea. You just. You're just intrigued by that. What apparently might be a coincidence or could be a mathematical. So I've done a bit of kind of bedroom djing and, yes, some of the record decks that you can get. I've got a 33 and a 45 button. But if you press them both together, it puts them on 78. And that's what made me realize that there's probably. You've probably answered your own question there, but we'll try and get something a little bit more technical. I found a lovely shop in Barnes the other day selling old fashioned turntables. Selling restored. No, not turntables, typewriters, but selling vinyl as well. So the juxtaposition was charming for us because big enthusiasms in our house for vinyl and for typewriters. But I shall try and find out about your turntables. Andy's in Beckenham. Question or answer, Andy? It's an answer. James. Carry on. The wheel and the wall. Yes. What came first? Good luck, by the way. Thank you. The wall can be dated back to the settlements around Jericho and the temple of Urtha in Turkey. Both dated from around 9000. BC, whereas the first recorded example of a wheel was from around three and a half thousand cc in Mesopotamia, where, interestingly enough, actually, it's being used as a potter's wheel. But how can they. How could they have built the wall without wheels to move the bricks? Well, I think the current understanding is they use the log technique, where they would put brick on logs on the ground. Donald Trump might argue that that log was in fact a wheel. Well, he may, but he would. People want to know. He'd be wrong. People? Donald Trump, wrong? Are you mad? I distinctly heard these words. They say a wall is medieval. Well, so is a wheel. A wheel is older than a wall. So the wall that you've found, the earliest evidence of dates from 9000 bc and the medieval. The medieval period. The medieval period generally reckoned to be roughly when would. What's around what, twelve to 15 hundreds, something like that. 13th to the 16th century. He's a right old genius, isn't he? Isn't he just. Qualifications. Andy, part time historian. Round of applause. Thank you. You're very welcome. You see, mocking an american president on this program is nothing. Have you seen what Burger King's Twitter account have been doing to him this week? Poor little sausage. Harry's in Swindon. Harry, question or answer? I've got a question for you, Jason. Carry on. Harry. I can't hear you. I can't hear you. Gone all weird. You weren't like this when you spoke to Beth or Ava. Sort yourself out, man. Is that any better? Marginally. Go on. So, upon a recent visit, taking the children to the cinema to play area. Yes. Notice there's signs saying that you can't bring in your own food or drink from outside to consume on the premises. Yes. Is there any legal grounding for this? And can you kind of get in trouble for it? I know that's kind of two questions, but it kind of. No, I get it. And, I mean, you know why they do it? Because they want to make money out of flogging you their own stuff. And in the context of some of these businesses, it's a fair request. But is it one that they can actually enforce? I don't know. You can be refused entry pretty much whimsically, can't you? I mean, the management's decision final. So it may not be specific to eating and drinking, but they can decide if you've got a can of coke in your pocket, we're not letting you in until you leave it. I would have thought. Just a thought. Are you getting sponsored by Cokes in this program. No, there are quite. I should add Vimto. Let me add Vimto to that, which is my tipple of choice. Or a nice Idris ginger beer. Although again, up fizzy pop many moons ago. It's why I'm so svelte. Let me. Let me see if I can find out for you. Is there any legal basis on their cinemas and other attractions that say you're not allowed to take your own food and drink in because, of course, they make such a healthy profit on the stuff they hope to sell you? Wheel and wall. I'm very pleased with that question. Northern Ireland on adverts. Why does it say excludes Northern Ireland on so many origins of the phrase tongue in cheek? Does tapping a fizzy pop can. There you go. I'm not being sponsored, but I am open for our offers really reduce the fizziness inside. How do they know how many stars there are in a galaxy and how many galaxies there are in the universe? And is there any legal basis when a business says you can't eat or drink your own food and drink on our premises, you have to buy ours? George is in Bromsgrove. George, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer for the stars in the galaxy. Carry on, George. They will do it much the same way that we made an estimate of 700,000 people in the Brexit march. Yes. Of which I was proud to be one of the marchers. Me too, George. Well done. Lovely. Thank you. They will take photographs using, obviously, monster big telescopes, which can see an enormous distance away. We can see stars right to the center of our galaxy using infrared. So they will look at the one image, count all the stars in that image, and then make an estimate of how many images you would need of a similar sort to cover the whole galaxy and just multiply. Yeah, that's what I figured, but I wanted to hear it from somebody rather more qualified. What are your reminders of your qualifications, George? Amateur astronomer. Very, very keen. They obviously their distributions, because in the Milky Way, you get arms, so some of the stars go in long, curving arms, so it's not a uniform distribution, but they can obviously make a very, very clever estimate as to how many there'll be. And the same with the number of galaxies in the observable universe. I mean, the Hubble telescope has taken images almost to the end of the observable universe in that very, very small area. Where do you. Where's your telescope? In the attic? No, I have an observatory built in my garden. Oh, get. I was really hoping for that sort of answer. That's amazing. Yeah. The neighbors aren't keen, but how big is it? It's a white domed observatory. It's about 3 meters in diameter. Why aren't the neighbors keen? Well, it sort of looks like some strange monolith. Lincoln observatory in your back garden. Everyone else has got trampolines. They should be counting their lucky stars. You see what I did there, George? Excellent. Thank you very much. Round of applause for George. I want to ask you some Worcestershire based questions, but I have a sense that I lose the room when I sort of take out my homesickness on a caller. The best of James O'Brien. I don't know what. Downing street are denying something. The army reserves on standby for no deal from February 10. That is reported by the Times or by a Times journalist. Downing street have denied that this would happen. And as Ian Dunt, who I recommended yesterday on Twitter, points out, Downing street denials are merely a prologue to confirmation. It's like a vote of confidence from a chairman of a football club. A vote of confidence in the manager presages the dismissal of said manager almost immediately. But this is true. Army reserves are on standby for no deal from February 10 as preparation continues apace. Not official policy, but it's a call out order in support of government contingency planning for a no deal EU exit. In a written statement, a new order has been made of the Reserve Forces Act 1996 to enable reservists to be called into permanent service in support of the HMG contingency planning for a no deal EU exit scenario. Great. Richard's in Skipton. Richard, question or answer? Hey, James. It's an answer. Carry on, mate. Hi. It's mounted to the coke one. Oh, yeah. Or any fizzy pop. Or any fizzy pop. Yeah. Well, when they make it, they dissolve carbon dioxide into the liquid. Yes. Now, not all of it dissolves, which is the bubbles. So when you shake it up, the little balls that haven't dissolved distribute all around, all the way around the can. If you open that, then the. Those bubbles expand rapidly with the decreasing pressure, and that forces the coke out of the top of the can. By tapping on the top of it, those little bubbles move gently to the top and then you can open it. Qualifications? I studied physics at St Andrews University. Fantastic. I knew it was true. It makes sense. You explained it perfectly. Round of applause for Richard. Thank you. Thank you. Because it does actually work. I got a bit flummoxed when the caller was accusing me of lying. I'm pretty sure on picnics and stuff. I've done it and it works. You've got to be careful how much you shake up the can. Yeah, of course. Because it's not. It's not. It's not going to be an absolute foolproof method. But. But you're right. Great work. I love that question. We've had some good ones this week. Thank you, Richard. So we've got tongue in cheek Northern Ireland and that's it. Is that all that's left? I think so. Richard. Another Richard. Oh, and cinema food. Why? Is there any legal basis for saying you can't take your own food and drink into the soft play area or the cinema? Richard's in Belper. Richard, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, Richard. It's Northern Ireland. Why? You're not far from Skipton, are you? That's two richards there, one in Derbyshire and one in Yorkshire. No, no, not far. 50, 60 miles. Small world. Carry on. Okay. Now, I don't want to divulge my qualifications straight away. Why? I can answer this, but it would probably help if you want me to do that. Go on. It's down to marketing, distribution rights, products. I used to work for Coca Cola. And the brands are owned by the Coca Cola company based in Atlanta, Georgia. Yes. And the bottling rights are then awarded to different. Different partners in different countries. Yes. So, UK is Coca Cola GB. And for logistical reasons, Northern Ireland is often covered by companies who have a right to. For the island of Ireland. Oh, I didn't know. What do you know, mate? I don't know if you said and I missed it, I had no idea what question you were answering. First of all, I thought there might be a stewards inquiry here on Richard in Skipton's answer about Coca Cola cans and getting the bubbles to rise to the top. Then, as you began to talk, I thought that you were talking about taking drinks and food into cinemas and why you're not allowed to take. But you're answering the question about why it says excludes Northern Ireland on so many. That's right, yes. Well, I never. What an astonishing coagulation of circumstances. Carry on, Richard. I can make you an offer for mainland british sandwiches or fizzy drinks or whatever. I can give you a buy one, get one free. But I'm actually the franchisee, for want of a better word, for Northern Ireland is going to have a deal that covers the island of Ireland rather than the British Isles. Absolutely, yes. Whether that maintains after March is yet to be seen, obviously. Yeah. Everything we're not going to. No one will be able to afford Coca Cola after March 29, Richard. Yeah. We'll be drinking vegan. We. Round of applause for Richard. Good man. Like that. Lovely answer. Zack's in Greenwich. Question or answer, Zack? Question. James. Light bulbs. Yeah. Why are there different things, mate? Like, there's a bayonet one and the Edison type. Yeah. Why don't they just make it into one? You got little screws and big screws. Yeah. So it's just I was feeding my stuff day and I went to the shop to buy them. I was like, I don't know which one it is. Did you go to Robert Dyess? No, I went to. I think it was being queue or something. And you didn't take the old one? You didn't say the old one with no man. Schoolboy. Erase that schoolboy boy. Error. Why should there be an error? Why should there be an error? Because you could get the wrong size as well. The answer is probably safety. I don't know if we're gonna have time to answer it. But the screw ones. No, I don't know why. Actually. It's a good question. Why can't we all just use. I mean, can see why you have different sized ones. Yeah, I can see that. So I was just about to say that you can see where the different size one. Because you might have a little lamp. Exactly that. Or you might have a tiny, tiny little bulb in your bicycle lamp or something like that. But in terms of household lamps and ceilings, why would you have. And then they change it. Have you got fancy lights in your kitchen? Have you got those led ones? Because they change them as well. Yeah, but. No, but my first ones I got. When we got the kitchen done, they were like quite heavy bolts. And now we got the bathroom done and it's the same lights, but they've. There's a different model. It's like it's upgraded or something. And so I have to buy both. But what I do, Zach, to give you some advice, I go to Robert Dyess and I buy in bulk in advance and I keep them in the cellar for when I need to change a bulb. I've got a dizzying array of bulbs. I'm doing it. Good advice. I'll take it. I'll try and get you an answer, mate. And stop giving you light bulb based advice. Choose that. Ryan's in Leicester. Question or answer, Ryan. Answer. Which one? The light bulb types. How did you do that? How did you do. Is it because I was waffling on so long? Was that you managed to get through. You got. You got through and you got approval before. I got very efficient system self. Obviously. Let's not get carried away. Carry on. So the reason we have different types is due to historical precedents. Oh, yeah. So the UK historically has always had bayonet type of light fittings, which is what you have in ceiling fittings. Yes. And in Europe and the US, they've always used the screw in type, but because now we are, you know, having standardized european regulations for things like table lamps, you make the same table lamp and you export it all over Europe, which is why we now have most table lamps come with this grew in type of fitting. For some reasons. You have different types of sockets on walls, you know, in the UK and mainland Europe. Yeah, of course. So just to kind of. It's part of the globalist conspiracy, really, to confuse us with our light bulbs. Wasn't brexit about light bulbs once? Probably, yes. I mean, and I think hopefully at some point in the future, we'll sort of harmonise to using all screen bulbs because it'd be lots simpler for everyone. But I think that needs a change in the wiring regulation so that it would encourage electricians to fit the screw in types on the ceiling, so everything would all be screwing type qualifications. Not there yet. Electrical engineer. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for riot. Thank you. Yeah, of course. That makes sense. It's the only thing that does make sense, actually, is it's happened as a sort of historical accident or historical precedent, whatever you prefer. Tommy is in Westminster. Tommy, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Hello again. It's about the 78 revolutions per minute. Okay. Yeah. Is it linked? Is the fact that 44 45 plus 33 equals 78 significant, absolute, pure coincidence. No way. Shut the front door. Yep, absolutely. Qualifications? Well, again, I'm an autistic savant and this is one of my areas of expertise. Audio recording and playback. Fantastic. And I've nerded out over this for about 30 years. You say nerd it out. I say imbued yourself with the knowledge of the ages, Tommy. So it's all about what your needle is made of and how much sound quality you want. Way back in the day, it was a needle traversing a groove in a wax cylinder and then on a shellac plate. And you needed to go really, really fast to get the kind of fidelity you could fit more information in a longer groove in a shorter time. Yes. And then when they move to diamonds and stuff, it could slow down so they could get more information in a. In a slower speed and therefore get more playing time on one on the same size disc and. But that's an amazing coincidence, isn't it? You must have felt that when you. You must have felt that was significant at some point. To be honest, I've only ever thought of it in terms of the sound quality and so on. No, I don't blame you. I've got. I've got. Sorry, I've got to squeeze Wayne in because I'm going to go for a full house, so I'll give you a round of applause. How many is that you've had now, Tommy? Half a dozen. There you go, you see? Class. Class in a glass. Wayne's in Basildon. Hello. Hello, mate. You all right? Muscle. Quick muscle. Question or answer, please, princess. It's an answer to why you can't take food into somewhere that serves food. Yeah, well, my local pub, the gun in Pitsey. Look at that. Why don't you just ring in and ask if you can get yourself a free pint tonight? You're such a charlatan and a mercenary. Carry on. No, but they do a lot of wakes because it's opposite the crematorium. And I overheard the lovely landlady, Lynn, going through the wake with someone and they wanted to bring their own food in, but because it didn't have a health and hygiene certificate, she wasn't allowed to allow them to bring the food in because they can't guarantee the food. And if someone gets sick or poorly from the food, they can't prove whether it's their food or the food that they brought in. Yeah. So that's why you're not allowed to bring in outside food. Makes sense. And they don't police it that closely because we've all taken a bag of crisps or a bag of sweets into the cinema. But they would have a legal. They would have a legal right to tell us that you can't take that in because if you get food poisoning, they wouldn't be able to prove that it was theirs or yours. Qualifications. Plug your pub again. Yeah. What's that? What's. What's your tipple, then, Wayne? Up there. The grocery's nice, is it? Because when I saw you last week, you were drinking red wine, mate, I bet you don't tell them that when you're in the. Having a pint in pixie metropolitan elite. Honestly, I don't know. Middle class. Lynn will be disgusted. Mate, you should have been drinking a nice pint of Stella or some other sort of pasteurized foreign thing instead of he's having a red wine. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.