Who decides what's fashionable?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, three minutes after twelve is the time. How are you? You alright? You ready for this? Yes, hell yes, we're ready for this. Mystery a your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that is not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If I sound a bit distracted, it's because I've already got a mystery bubbling away in the back of my mind. Is the snooker about? Is snooker's about to start. Is it? How exciting. We shall. I think it is. I'm just looking at a story about Ronnie O'Sullivan playing Pang Hoon Chu in the first round of the world championship. So they must have the schedule in place. Anyway, I digress. Appallingly actually and very unprofessionally. If you're not familiar with this feature, you are in for a bit of a surprise. It's not got a lot to do with the other 14 hours of the week that we spent together, but it is the only hour of the show that has ever prompted its own board game. In fact it's one of the only radio features ever to. Not the only don't send me pictures of something Noel Edmonds did in 1982 or anything like that, but there is a board game and not only is there a board game, a mystery hour board game, but you can win the mystery hour board game, your very own mystery hour board game, by being the basically just my favourite contributor of the day. There's no other criteria than that. Make me laugh, make me smile, make me like you. The terms and conditions can be found at LBC co dot UK. I think we'll just crack on actually. I just still got so many interesting messages coming in about the last hour that I'm getting. I'm getting. I'm gonna have to close that window. I'm getting distracted by them. Opening match of the tournament is on Saturday morning. Yeah. So starts on Saturday, the snooker. Oh, how exciting. My wife will be delighted. Four minutes after twelve is the time Mike is in Arundel to kick things off. Mike, question or answer? Yeah, carry on. It's about cranes and building sites. How does the first crane on the site get assembled without something to support it? And equally at the other end when it's jobs been finished and we've done this so many. It's not a criticism of you, I mean we used to do this one so often that I actually got work to look into. The insurance ramifications. No, it's not your fault. I mean it's going back a long time and I can't remember the answer, but we dealt with it because I get a bit weird about cranes. Cranes and bridges. I kind of. I don't have a petrol head gene in my body, but cranes and bridges just transport me somehow into contemplations. I can sit and watch cranes for hours. And the ones from now are used remotely as well. And the person operating is in the car. It's a terrible phone line, Mike. I don't know whether you've gone up, fallen down a well since you rang in or something, but we even looked into the insurance ramifications of doing the whole show from upper crane. I can't remember why. I think they palmed me off. Thinking back on it now. They said, oh, no, you can't do that. The insurance ramifications are too bad. I don't think they even made any phone calls. They just decided it was like the time that slush puppy rang up and offered me a machine in the studio. Going back a while, they were going to put a slush puppy machine in the studio and they said, oh, no, you can't have that health and safety. I bet they never did any health and safety on it. They just didn't want me having a slush puppy machine in the studio. I think that the first crane is on wheels and that starts building the bigger crane. Ah, okay. The static one. Okay, I'm with you, then, but I shall leave it on the board because I can't remember fully and it's certainly not definitive, but I am a little bit embarrassed that I can't remember that, because we have dealt with it on many occasions. How do they put the cranes up on a building? It's like the first one, if you like. Once you've got one up, it's easy to see how all the others go up as well. Thank you, Michael. John's in Alverley in Shropshire. John, question or answer? Is that seven valley country? Almost. Is it? It's just down the road from Kidderminster. I know it is, but doesn't the steam train go there? That's it. Yes, it does. Yes, straight through. Lovely stuff. James, I have a question. Carry on, John, a question that really bugs me. Go on. Why are there two different types of heads on a screw? A flathead and a Phillips or a posi screw head? Why don't we unify it to one? Either a flathead or a Phillips. Now, I'd be amazed if we haven't had this one before as well. But again, I can't remember. We certainly haven't done it often. Is it aesthetics? Well, it's one of my bugbears, because I can guarantee every time I try to screw something in, I can find a flathead. If I've got a Phillips screwdriver and you've got a Phillips screw, if you've got a flathead screwdriver in your pocket every single time. And I don't understand why there are two different types when it. If one's better than the other, I believe. Well, the Phillips is better. You get later. You get more purchase on a Phillips than you do on a flat head one. Yeah. So why don't we make all screws Phillips? Aesthetics? Yeah. So the line looks nice on. On some woodwork. That's not going to wash, is it? That's not going to wash. That's not going to cut it with me, James. No. No. Why don't we all have the same screws? All the same screws. Then we only need to have one screwdriver. It's like everyone's got a VHS and Betamax in their house, isn't it? And they. You have to buy different tapes all the time, so it doesn't exactly. You're on. No, you're on. You're on. You're on your own. I like it. I don't know the answer and there must be an answer to it, even if it is, um. Elusive. Thank you, John. Take care. Give my love to the Pybathems. Is it tonight? Well, I was just. It could well be, but I was just going to say big up to Labrassory in Kiliminster. No, it's gone. It's gone. My, my. One of my close friends. I won't mention him, but he was the latest owner for the last 20 plus years. Oh, big shame. It is a huge shame as well. I saw it's on the market, I think, and he hasn't. He hasn't sold it as a going concern, I don't think, has he? No. No. That's a tragedy. The difference, I mean, I worked for the fella that your friend bought it off. I worked for Barry who had it before. Your friend. Well, Kevin's a very good friend of mine. I'll give him my best and my commiserations. He's a wonderful adornment to them. My mum still misses it. She was still talking about it at the weekend when I went up, because there's nowhere else to go, really, in town. That's where I cut my teeth as a waiter. It's all happening on here today, isn't it? Seriously, this is the big stuff. Nine minutes after twelve is the time Lee is in Manchester. Lee, question or answer? Good morning. James lead, a tattooed teacher. Hello, mate. How are you? How are you? Very well indeed. I've got one link to my. My job. I'm asking, are homophones and homographs exclusive to the english language? You're gonna have to remind us what they are. So, for example, homophones like words that are spelt differently but me and mean something different, like weight and weight. Yes. I need to lose weight or wait for it. Yes. Homographs are spelt the same but mean different things like close the door or close like. That was a close thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm just thinking also, we kind of intuitively know when we're reading it, we don't read it incorrectly. Do it. And it came to me. I got an apple watch not long ago and when I was out and about, it said I thought I read it as record outdoor walk. And I thought, I've worked. I've watched loads more than this. That can't be the first. It's not even in my top ten. Not even in my top ten. This what you going on about? Your weird old walk? And then I realized it meant, ah, record by asking me if I wanted to record it. I love it when you're reading a book. That's a homograph. That's a homograph. That's a homograph, yeah, yeah. And also synonyms where the context of a synonym. Because obviously children in my class, they try and impress me by using ambitious vocabulary, but it often doesn't make sense. So, for example, hard and difficult synonyms. But you couldn't say something is hard as in not soft. So that question is hard. Yes, that table is difficult. Doesn't make sense. No, that's it as well. Yeah, that's what I used to do. That's useful to the english language. You just get a thesaurus out and misuse a word completely. But the teacher would do their best not to giggle it. I was guilty of that. You won't be surprised to learn. Yeah, that's what they do. And then you think, yeah, it's great, but grammatically it just doesn't make sense. It doesn't make any sense at all. But I'm just trying to think. I don't have the language, I haven't got the Latin. As Peter Cook would have said, I don't think I've got the languages to come up with an example off the top of my head. But that doesn't prove that there aren't any. Yeah. I mean, our language is so. Because we've been invaded so many times. It's such a mishmash, isn't it? But I wonder if it's exclusive to English. Well, let's find out. You just. We just need someone who's, like, mega, megalingual, don't we? Because it's very easy to answer. No, it's not exclusive to English. We just need one example from. One example from. Exactly, yeah. To answer. To answer yes is going to be a much bigger challenge. Nice one, Lee. Thank you, mate. Homophones and homographs unique to the english language. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Sebastian's in red ink. Sebastian, question or answer? Hi, James. We've got a question. Carry on. When you. When you start a series of anything, movie wise, why is the first episode always called Pilot? It's not the first episode. Right. It's the one they made in the hope of getting a commission. Right. Is that why. Yeah. So my television career features more doomed pilots than the japanese air force. Sebastian. I've been waiting years to get that one on the radio, in the right sort of context. Thank you very much. I'm here all week. Try the veal. But it does. So you make a pilot and then they watch it and they say, good God, no. We're certainly not commissioning this whole toilet. Or they say, yeah, this is great. We'll give you millions of pounds and you can make 20 episodes. So that's why it will end up on Netflix or end up on the DVD. The pilot. I see. But that still leaves the question hanging of why it's called a pilot, to which I think the answer is simply that it's like a prototype. It goes, first pilot in the river. The pilot would go in front of the barge, wouldn't it? The pilot would steer the boat into a. Into a dock. Pilot light. Keith said, well, in a boiler. I don't think that's helpful, Keith, really? I could be wrong. I'll leave it on the board, but I think it is going. It is going to have something to do with what we've touched on there. Crikey. Making me nostalgic for all my failed pilots. Thank you, Sebastian. We shall get you an answer to that. Why are pilots. That trial episode of a tv show, why is it called a pilot? It is 1214. Some lovely questions on the board this week. It's going to be hard to pick a winner so far, Craig's, in Lawrence Cook in Aberdeenshire. Or. Answer. It's a question, please, James, carry on. Why are shampoo bottles generally larger than conditioner bottles? When you use more conditioner compared to shampoo, do you use more conditioner compared to shampoo? Yes. Yeah, definitely. Well, I even, even if you use the same amount, why is the shampoo bottle always, or most of the time, bigger than the conditioner bottle? Well, I mean, it's an interesting question, but it's based on quite a few presumptions, if you don't mind me saying so. Yeah. The amount of hair, for a start. Well, I mean, that's a bit of a sensitive area for me, but I think, I think, I think it's, isn't it? Because not everyone uses conditioner, although those that don't use conditioner won't buy it. So they'll do it. No, but I'm thinking of a family. Okay. Yeah. So first, multiple users. Yeah. So you get through, as a household, you get through more shampoo than you do conditioner? Possibly, yeah. I don't know. And I'm not convinced that you use more conditioner than you do shampoo either. Definitely. I use loads more and so does my wife. And everyone I spoke to uses more conditioner than they do shampoo, for sure. But you're supposed to shampoo your hair twice before you condition. Yeah, yeah, yeah. First. Yeah, definitely. That would also answer your question, wouldn't it? As well? It would, because you're supposed to go through it twice as quickly. Shampooing your hair too much isn't good for your hair because it strips the natural oils out of it. Yeah. That's how often you do it. But when you do do it, you should do it twice. Okay, so that could be the answer. Yeah, I find out. I like it. Why is the shampoo bottle much bigger than the conditioner bottle? I like that. Have you got lovely luscious locks, Craig? Yes, you have, haven't you? I can tell you how. It's just not fair. It's unbelievable. I sometimes sort of catch a glimpse of someone who's got hair like I used to have when I had my full ponytail. Oh, it's a, it's a cruel blow, Craig. It's a cruel blow. It really is. It's terrible. That's all right. We've all got our crosses to bear. Thank you. Cranes, shampoo, screw heads, homophones and pilots. There's a lot there to get your teeth into. We'll start picking off some answers shortly. Mystery hour with James O'Brien this is LBC 90 minutes after twelve. They did lie to you, James, says Stephen. In Milton Keynes, James Robinson on Chris Moores show was allowed to drive a tower crane. They told me they couldn't get the insurance. They're cheeky beggars. Honestly, I'm probably worth more than James Robinson off the Chris Moore's show as well, so it would cost a lot more to insure me. And I bet I was allowed a slush puppy machine as well. That was before we moved studios. It was about 15 years ago. I was just waxing lyrical about them on air and talking about how you never see them anymore, and one of their reps rang in and said, do you want one? Can I get one? Dropped off at the studio. A massive, great old thing, massive, because the homemade ones that you buy them in Robert dyess and you make it yourself out of ice, they're a bit rubbish and they're not, you know, like Mister Frosty as a kid. You remember Mister Frosty? Did you have Mister Frosty as a kid? It's nothing like the stuff you got in Woolworths, was it? It was just sort of crushed. Well, anyway, obviously it's crushed up, but the quality of crushing was crucial. They were going to get me a slush puppy machine. I wasn't allowed it and they didn't let me do the show from upper Crane. Honestly. I need to get an agent. Paul's in Bury St Edmunds. Paul, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Who decides what clothes are in fashion? That's a brilliant question. You mean apart from me? Obviously apart from you. An example would be a good few years ago, we were all wearing boot cut jeans, if you remember. Yeah, of course. And then, no, we're not. Now they've got slimmer and, you know, skinny jeans, etcetera. So who decides that? Well, no one decides. No, I mean, it's cyclical, isn't it? There's not one person. I mean, the manufacturers, ultimately. I mean, I suppose you've got haute couture at the very top of the pyramid, and that will influence diffusion lines, that will influence what they're selling in shops, which will in turn feed back into what's being manufactured and what's being produced. And then you've got subcultures. So things that start off in subcultures and then get taken up by the mainstream, so the cool kids start wearing, I don't know, paisley patterned shirts, and then five years later you can buy them in next. Yeah, but if you've got manufacturers, and obviously they're so profit based. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? If they. No, I do know what you mean, but it's a sign that it's a sort of combination of commercial and organic, isn't it? Okay, so if somebody spends millions and millions of pounds on a certain line of clothing, they put it in the shops, and if it doesn't sell. Yeah. That's not good, is it? No, but that happens. Yeah. Doesn't it? So, I mean, it is. I mean, I'm not going to take the round of applause, but I think it's a form of sort of alchemy. It's a form of hope and planning and, I mean, I don't think there's going to be a straight answer to the question that, you know, the flares are coming back round again, for example. Yeah. Bell bottom Stephen Colchester has seen quite a few around the place. He's just texted to say, those hippies. Well, my kids wear stuff. That's. They started nicking some of my stuff now because they think it's cool. So you just. It is. It's a funny one. I'll put it on the board. But I'd be amazed if we get a neater. I don't think we'll get a neat answer. We just might get a slightly better one than I've managed to muster up. Yeah. Maybe it's osmosis. It could be a form of osmosis. It is a form of osmosis, in a way, in that you see someone else wearing something and you sort of absorb the desire. No, that's not going to work, mind. There you go. Paul. Mike's in Marlo. Mike. Question or answer? It's an answer. James, about the screws. Oh, the screws. The screws. Years ago, they used to make screws with a straight slot in, known as a slotted screw, because they were the type of screwdrivers they had. Yes. And that was one form of manufacturing. But nowadays, we, firstly, we screw everything, don't we? We screw plasterboard, we screw timber. We've got all different types. Different types of screw have different heads. And that was the question, wasn't it? Why? Why do we not have one? But the thing is that the manufacturing is different as well. So when they make screws by the grille in, it's done on a very, very fast machine, whereas years ago they were almost handmade. Yeah, but why have the flathead screws not been sort of phased out, as it were? Well, that's just tradition. If you were working in a house, if you're working in an old victorian house and putting some lovely brass hinges on a lovely old door. You wouldn't dream of using a posi screw on it now. Well, that's what I said about. That's why I said about aesthetics. Yeah, yeah. They do the same job, but then just looks. You just have a different expectation on the carpentry side of things. Absolutely. But the other thing is that a slotted screw doesn't work in a drill driver, whereas all the other screws doesn't matter whether it's Philips, posi or torx, because they're the little star head. No, I know that. I mean, this is. I don't even know if John knew this, but there are at least two other types of screw as well. The posies. There's three main ones. There's. There's Posey. Yeah. There's torques. And there's Philips Phillips. That's why. Yeah. And. And flathead. So there's four. And flat. So there's four in total. But the point is that the torques ones are funny. That work very well in a driver. No, because it'll pop out again. Spins out of. It'll hop out. I like it. Yeah. So that's the answer. Is tradition and aesthetics really? Well. And is a torques. Is a torques even more effective than a Phillips in terms of the drill head popping out of it? Well, there's more contact. Yeah. Yeah, because it's like a. Because I had a terrible time trying to fix my tumble dryer because it had these weird screws on it. So presumably that's much tighter than the phillips. Even I couldn't get it out for love or money. The reason for that is to stop people like you mucking about with your tumble drive. Well, it worked. I had to get a man in, Mike. There you go. But that's the point. Not many people carry torques. We carry every torque size going. Yes, but that's to stop people like you mucking about doing diy maintenance. I know. I tried to explain that to my wife and she wasn't having any of it. I said, this literally proves that I shouldn't be trying to do this. It's what it's there for. I've got find this very, very hard to believe, but I actually have quite a good toolbox. I've got quite. I like it. I'm not very good at it, but I like doing stuff. And she wasn't having any of it. But in the end, I think we looked it up on the Bosch website. And it said, do not attempt this yourself. Absolutely. But you see, the other. The other thing is, James in Phillips and in Torx and in Pozi Drive, there are different sizes as well, of course. Yes, I see. Well, that's why when you buy. Yeah, but I've got my electric screwdriver. I've got about 30 different heads for it, haven't I? And that's why. That's right. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's got to be the right size and it's got to be the right style. Lovely stuff. Qualifications. I've been a builder for nearly 50 years. Round of applause for Mike. Thank you, Mike. Brand new. Oh, I found that fascinating. I really did. Mark's in Barrow, in furnace. Mark. Question or answer? It's an answer. And you won't be surprised to hear what it's about. Homophones and homographs, you have to remember there's also homonyms which are both spelt and pronounced the same, but have no connection. For example, bank, meaning a financial institution and bank. This is actually quite complicated. And you mentioned the case of where you get, like a metaphor, as in hard meaning, difficult. Yes, well, that would only apply in some cases. You can't say that a tabletop is difficult. No, exactly. And you get shift to meaning. You get things like the word drive, which originally meant driving an animal, pulling a vehicle. And it's come to mean driving a motor vehicle as well. Yes. There were no such things as motor vehicles. No. And golf as well. Yeah. I mean. So there was a stupid joke about somebody being driven into the desert. What, in a car? No, with a whip and so on, you know. But the thing is, it's true that English has a lot more of this than many languages. Right. Because it has a big vocabulary taken from lots of different other languages. And in addition, it's also lost most of its grammatical endings. Right. So, whereas in some languages, a noun and an associated verb would have different endings, increasingly in English, that isn't the case. So you can get something which could be a noun or could be a verb, and it might have a difference of stress, like record and record, but it might not even have that. So in some cases, there are a lot more cases than in some languages, but it's not unique, I sense is where you're leading. For example, a language like French, which has a lot of silent letters. Yes. As you know, when you learn it, there are many cases of words that are spelt differently but pronounced the same because some of the endings are not pronounced. So a very well known example is cette meaning seven. Yes. And cette meaning this. Oh, I could have thought of that, couldn't I? So there was a sentence, y vient toujours a set heure. He always comes at 07:00 or he always comes at this hour. This hour, yeah, of course. No, I should have come up with that. And Scheinen, I think in German as well, to Scheine. And you get this. And. And in fact, if you get a language like Chinese, where the characters don't represent the sounds but represent the words, and that's. There are an awful lot of homophones in Chinese, even if you include the tones, because there is such a small system of sounds in Chinese that they're bound to replicate and you tell them, because they just look completely different on the page. And when you get chinese people speaking together, especially if it's not their first variety of Chinese. Yes. Like, say, Hong Kong cantonese speakers using Mandarin or whatever. Yes. They'll draw the glass in the air to make it clear which one it is, you know, well, flipping, especially if it's grammatically ambiguous. Got it. No, I mean, you're over the line. You're absolutely over the line. That Lee will be delighted. Mark, that's really lovely work. You get some really, really interesting cases when you get words having opposite meanings and the same form with opposite meanings. And a good example is let as in to allow. But it also used to mean hinder, as in a passport, where it says without let or hinder does, doesn't it? Yeah. Okay. And it's also the same word, let in tennis and squash, meaning it hinders the opponent from making the stroke. Of course, of course. And that's understandably one of those words tends to fall out of use. It's too confusing if you have let meaning allow and let meaning not allow or obstacle. Hinder. I've got the news. Quite a big stuff. There's a lot of stuff. Qualifications, mark, reminders, longstanding professional linguist. Lovely stuff. And another round of applause. Thank you. Countless. I could listen to him all day. 12:30 is the time. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1234 and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. So some beautiful answers coming in. A lot of love from Mark. It makes you realize how many people are discovering the show in general and mystery hour in particular quite anew. Because Mark has been a fixture on questions of linguistics. He's an absolute joy to listen to. But some of you have clearly not heard him and not heard him before, which is great, because, you know, the more the merrier, as far as I'm concerned. Cranes, how do they get the first crane up on a building site? We should probably be able to do that one quite easily. Why are pilots called pilots in tv? It's like the trial run of a show is called a pilot. Why is your shampoo bottle bigger than your conditioner bottle when everyone uses more conditioner than shampoo? That second bit is true because you just shampoo your scalp, don't you, really? Whereas with conditioner, you want every strand to be coated. And who decides what's fashionable? Asked Paul. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of those. Kyle is in Liverpool. Kyle, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Why does my appendix scar hurt when the weather's about to change? Well, how often does it hurt? Every time the weather's abandoned, not numerically speaking, because I had the surgery twelve years ago and I was very poorly. So it's quite a big scar. Yeah. And I have keyhole surgery scars on my shoulder. They don't hurt. Right. But just my appendix scars. What is it, like, a throbbing pain? No, it's like an ache, like a dual ache. And then obviously the weather's changed twice in the past week from sunny. It starts to ache and then it went stormy and. Yeah, I know the weather's going to change because it starts to ache. How big a change does it have to be? A dramatic change, like from. We had 18 degree temperatures last week and then this week we're on. Well, I've got three degrees at the moment where I am. When did. At what point does the scar start hurting? Oh, say about a day, two days beforehand, maybe. There's a bit of a chicken and egg problem here, Kyle isn't there. And it might be hurting for completely different reasons, but then the weather changes. I've had it checked out, though. What do you mean, you've had it checked out? So about six years ago, I thought there's something up with it because it was hurt. And I went to the GP and the GP felt it said, no, it feels all fine, I can feel the muscle wears all together. So, yeah, there's nothing wrong with it, it just takes. But I'm saying it might not be linked to the weather, it might just come and go and you've just sort of linked it in your mind with a change in the weather, but actually it probably hurts and then there isn't a change in the weather. But you don't remember those times. I remember everything. I'll come off it. I do. You like my mate Luke, who thinks he's clairvoyant because he makes about 100 predictions a year and two of them come true and he thinks he's mystic Meg. Oh, I can remember my first words. I can remember my first day of school. Oh, gosh. Very clever. Very. Well, I don't know if that's cleverness as such, but it's pretty impressive. Okay, so you're adamant that your scar starts hurting about a day before the weather, a day or two before there's a profound change in the weather. A dramatic change. Dramatic change in the weather, yeah, I like it. Does it. I mean, does it hinder you in any way as you go about your business? Not really, no. Just feel it and go, oh, here we go again. And then the weather changes. Should I put you in touch with the news desk, do you think? Give him a heads up it's about to happen. The meteorology office or something like that. You could have you on a small retainer. Oh, how's your scar, Kyle? Oh, I tell you what, it's playing up a bit today. Alert. Alert the weather for. What do you reckon next week's weather's going to be like? I don't know. That's no bloody use, is it, to anybody? Yeah, well, we should. All right, you're on. It's on the list. I don't know quite what answer we're going to get on that one, but you never know. Stranger things have happened. Thank you, Kyle. 1238 is the time. Nicholas is in perigord. Perigord en France. Nicholas Castillon o response? Good afternoon. Hello. I'll do that in English. Yes. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. What the meaning of a pilot is in terms of television. Yes. When you make a television program, you have to work out technically how to make it, because everyone is different. Of course. You have to get the artists to be able to understand where they are and how they are and how to move and how to speak and all that kind of business. And you're also looking to see how the script works. Yes. So that if there are any script changes or any change in thematic changes, you can undertake them before you go into making a series. And finally you want to test it on the audience. Yes. So you want to be able to make sure that it is actually doing the job that it's supposed to do. And the reason it's called a pilot is exactly as it is with a pilot in, say, going down the Mersey. Got to negotiate the way he goes up and down the river. That's what I thought. So that's why it is. That's what I thought. That's a lovely answer. Yeah, I was right. But you get the round of applause. Well, what are your qualifications? I'm an ex television director. Oh, cool. What did you do? And I made a lot of. And I made a lot of pilots as well, so. So it's invention. Well, there it is. I love it. What was. What was your favorite show that you worked on, Nicholas, if you don't mind me asking? Probably. I did 700 of the early countdowns. I also made Krypton factor. I also made Fraggle rock. Fraggle rock with Fulton Mackay. Yes. I love that first two series. Did you? Oh, wow. That's a proper mixed palette, then, isn't it? It's a proper mixed palette. Well, I also made science programs like where there's life and fun and games, which was. Which was the only prime time pure mathematics program ever made. Had an audience. Had an audience of 9 million people. Really? Got the numbers. Good grief. I don't remember that. That's fantastic. We had Carol on full disclosure. We had Carol on full disclosure a couple of weeks ago. She's a wonderful guest. She would have been in some of those early countdowns, wouldn't she? If not all of them. She was. She was in all of the ones I made. She was, yes. In the first one I made. It wasn't just her to start with, was it? There were a few more people in the studio. There were a variety of. There used to be a letters. A letters lady. Yes. And Carol, who did the mathematics. Yeah. No, I remember. I loved it. It was a really good. Hey, hey, guess what else as well. She's a pilot. What's that? Carol is a pilot is. She's a qualified pilot. Talk about symmetrical. Big round of applause for Nicholas, please. Lovely stuff. Thank you, Nicholas. That was lovely. 1241 is. It's a lovely mystery this week. I crossed that one off as well. Worried about Kyle's appendix scar. A few people getting in touch, suggesting that they suffer similarly. Bob's in Coulesden. Bob, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on. When I was in Croydon, just the other day, I saw a plaque commemorating the widening of Croydon High street and who did it, what have you, and the date in roman numerals. And I was very pleased to work out very quickly that it was 1896 when it occurred to me on a lot of television programs and films at the end of the credits when it gives the copyright, for example, copyright BBC, copyright ITV or something. It has the date in roman numerals. It does. And why does it? Now, I'm going to take the round of app. I'm going to take the round of applause on this one and my qualifications are that we've had it before, but I don't think you can go definitive on it. But there is a consensus on what the reason is. In fact, the last caller probably could have helped us on this one. He might. All those episodes under his boat. But the general consensus is so that apart from clever clogs like you, most people can't work out how old a program is. So it sort of camouflages the fact that they're putting on old stuff. Really? Yep. Would they have a motive to do that? Yeah, but even new ones like the. No, I know, but that's going to be around in 20 years. It's going to have the same. You're going to have the same tape, so to speak, in 20 years time so that no one will be able to tell it's 20 years old. Really? Yeah, that is the consensus. I mean, you might not like it, but that is the. Everyone likes to think they're watching something new. Everyone likes to think they're watching something new, particularly back in the day. It probably doesn't apply so much more because everyone's got 50 different channels. But you just created the idea in the mind of the viewer that. That you're watching something new. It's a lot harder to establish that you're watching something old. Well, they should teach roman numerals in school so that that plot fails, then. I mean. Yeah. It'd be a bit of an odd policy to announce, wouldn't it? On the hoof we're teaching, they have to start making more new tv shows. But that is the answer. Qualifications had it before. I think it might even be in the ball game. Board game. I'd never heard it. No. Well, that. Now you know, Bob, you've got it and I haven't seen it. I've got the board game, so I don't. Don't make me your favorite contributor. Oh, that's very honest of you. Well, I might come round again. If it's not in there. It might be in the next one. Thank you, Bob. Round of applause for me. We've done that. 1243. And Gary is also in Horsham. A few calls from Horsham today. Or did I imagine it? Gary, question or answer? Question? Please, James, carry on. Gary, my little grandson, bless him, has just gone down with chicken pot. Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. He's alright. He's fine with it. Good. But I just wondered why it's called chicken box. Because he's. I know it's a foul disease, but behave. I'm sorry. Absolutely no idea why it's called chicken box. Well, it must be because we caught it from chickens. Did we? I don't know. I mean, originally. I have no idea. No. Has he got. Has he got lots of spots he's got. Yes. My daughter's been counting them. He got up to about 91, I think it was that bill. He's fine. It's fine. No, no, I mean, it is. It's not very pleasant, is it? You could. But the symptoms. The symptoms vary. I mean, it must have something to do with chickens, mustn't it? I've no idea. I can't find any reasoning for it whatsoever, so. No. Do the. Okay. Do the spots look like chickpeas? That's not going to work, is it? No, I don't think so. Someone just sent that in. Yeah, you're on. I shall find. Yeah. Why is it. Why is chicken pots called chicken pots? I feel under pressure when it's a question that is for a youngster because I kind of want them to think that the radio is all powerful, you know? But there may not be an answer to this. It may be lost in the mists of time. Gary. We shall try and find out for you, James. Thank you, mate. Mind how you go. Regards to the little 112. 45 is the time. Why is chicken pox called chicken pox? Why does Kyle's appendix scar hurt when the weather is changing? Who invented fashion? Why are shampoo bottles bigger than conditioner bottles? And how do you get a crane up? The first crane on a building site. Any of those, please? Zero 345-606-0973 it's 1245. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 it is 1249 and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC Mystery hour continues and start ticking off some answers. Hopefully John's in Maidstone. John, question or answer? Hello, James. I have an answer for the crane question. So, firstly, it's about understanding there's lots of different cranes and quite a lot of them are mobile and that should give it away. So the initial crane installation will be carried out by telescopic mobile crane, which will turn up on site with a gang and they will put the tower crane up in sections with a gang of tower crane erectors, and they will put up a bit by bit by bit, and then that will then service the site for the length of the project. And then when they're finished, the crane will come in. They're normally quite big cranes, or 200 5350 tonners, and they'll come on site, de rig it all down and put it all the back of a lorry and send it away. You do get some self erecting tower cranes. The smaller ones, they come on the back of a lorry and they will come up in sections and they erect themselves. How does that like, pneumatically? Yeah, they come. They look like a telescopic and they've got the long section along the top and they come out sections. I think some of them are telescopic. It was a bit after my time. I worked in the industry quite a long time ago, but I know that they're generally a bit smaller and they come along on a big machine, but a massive one has been put up by another one and it's a costing. The tower cranes are long term hires, they're much cheaper for. So if you're on site for a twelve month project, rather than hiring a mobile crane, which is very expensive and comes on a day rate, you just hire one, two or three tower cranes, however many you need, and set them up on around the site to cover all of your bases. So you can then work on woods from there with everything that's on site. That's pretty straightforward, isn't it? Yep. When you've got more than. And then you can use, once you've got one tower in place, you can use that to put other cranes up. Exactly, yes. And often you'll find as buildings go up, especially in things like skyscrapers, that the tower will be inside the building. So they'll use the first tower crane to then erect a taller one and then they'll work up as they go like that, as they build up to these big tires. So you think places like Dubai and places like this, where it's all about big is better, you know, it's a real logistics thing. Qualifications? I worked in the mobile crane Hoe industry for about ten years when I left college. Why did you pack it in? I worked in operations and it's too much like hard work for me, so I worked in sales, physical. Lovely. One round of applause for John. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And I'll take that next time. I'll back myself more next time the first one is on wheels. It's pretty much pretty straightforward. Pietro is in. Pietro, I beg your pardon? Is in Edinburgh. It'd be funny if you were doing the fashion question. That sounds like a fashion kind of name, Pietro. Well, I wouldn't say it's a fashion name, but that is the question that I'm asking. Fantastic. Go on. So, well, I'm very nervous and there's a lot to cover, so I'll try and keep it brief. So a number of things were covered in answer to the question, who decides what's in fashion? Right. And there's a number of them, celebrities, subcultures, culture at large, and the fact that it's a cycle, so things come in and out. The cycle is interesting because it's majorly based on rebellion. So children try to dress or tend. Not all of them, but some tend to dress opposite to how their parents used to dress. Yes. And that's what justifies the cycle, or part of it. Yes. Celebrities and influences tend to set trends and that the idea that leverages. Or that what's leveraged there is the idea that if you wear what I'm wearing, you're cool. So that's sort of, it's an identity building project. It's trying to dress like cool people and therefore be cool if you want. And subcultures is interesting because it's the opposite that. Well, not necessarily the opposite, but it's slightly different because that's the idea of the group and it's not cool. So you're rejecting the herd. You're proving your individuality, really, as a member of a subculture? Well, you're proving you're a member of a group, which is, if I wear this, it's not like I'm cool, but if I wear this, I'm part of a group. So it's affiliation. So there's a million different things going on. What's the biggest, do you think? Yeah. Well, the one that wasn't covered, which is perhaps the one that's most influenced now, is the idea that there are trend forecasting agencies that brands base their future collections on, on a consultancy basis. So because production of a collection of clothing takes around about a year or two years, if we're not talking about fast fashion, then you have to rely on someone to give you consultancy and tell you what's going to be in fashion in two years. And the running assumption is that trend forecasting agencies run a self fulfilling prophecy business where they basically all say the same thing because they obviously coordinate and they say this is what's going to be in fashion in two years. And then brands go and produce it. So does it ever go wrong? Say again? Does it ever go wrong? It does go wrong, yes. And. But the problem with that is that it's a very costly error. Right. Because, of course, if you produce a whole collection that's out fashion or that doesn't fit with what fashion, then it's a big problem. And that's why fast fashion exists, because they're really quick, they can turn it around really quickly. Yeah. Some of it goes in a month from design to the shop, which is. Love it if you think. Brilliant answer. Qualification. What are your qualifications, Pietro? I've worked as a researcher in fashion for a number of years. I'm currently writing a PhD proposal in future methods of production for clothing as alternative for mass production. And if possible, I have a bit of a favor to ask you. Yeah, go on. Which is because it's an industry based PhD, I'm trying to get in contact with someone at Paul Smith. So if anyone's listening, that's in touch with anyone at Paul Smith and they want to get in touch with me to do an industry based PhD on the future of sustainable production of clothing, then happy to help. No, we'll pass it on. We'll pass the details on. If anyone can help. I mean, maybe Mister Smith himself is listening. You never know. Stranger things have happened. Round of applause is all I can offer you in the meantime, Pierre, I offer it. I'm very honored. Thank you very much. Never going to go out of fashion. That guaranteed Max is in Reigate. Max, question or answer? It's an answer to the shampoo. Question yours. So the short answer is essentially, people misuse conditioner and use too much of it. Tell me about it. But there's quite a few bullet points to this. So the overuse is one part of it. There's no foaming agents or sulfates or anything in conditioners. Or it doesn't feel, because you're used to shampoo, you don't feel you've got enough conditioner on because it's not bubbling up, but it is actually doing its job. Yeah. And you're actually technically correct in the beginning in the sense of shampooing the roots, conditioning the mid lengths and ends. So, in theory, if you're using the shampoo twice on the roots and you're using essentially a ten p piece. Yeah. Conditioner size on your mid length lens, you should get through them the same sort of same time. So that doesn't explain why? The shampoo one is bigger. It's more a retelling angle. So from one point of view, if you make everything exactly the same times, people often complain that they can't see the conditional word on a bottle. Yeah. So you don't reach for the wrong one when you're in the shower. Yeah, there's that in the shower. And even as more from a retailer's point of view, merchandising. Um, qualifications. What are your qualifications? That's enough. I work for a manufacturer. A round of applause for Max. I just want to squeeze in a couple more. Is there anything really important that you've missed out? Um, conditioner masks also go off quicker, so they have more preservatives, so they're almost interesting to make. Oh, lovely stuff. Well done. Oh, crikey. I bet you take your work home with you. Denise is. Denise is in Tottenham. Today's question or answer. Carry on. Um, so it's the chicken pox one. Yes. And we did a lot of research. Five of my kids got chickenpox. All at the same time. Oh, yeah, it was, yeah, fun times. And they're ten and under, so it was mad. And we had to find the answer because they all wanted to know why it was called chickenpox. And there's like, no definitive answer apart from those actually links to the chickpea. Someone sent me that. I thought they were joking, but it turns out that is one theory. One theory is that the scars look like little chickpeas. Yeah, they look like chickpeas. And also the other theory is out there that it looks like a chicken has pecked you. I prefer that one, I think. Me? I don't. Yeah, kids prefer that one. Yeah, we're going to go with that one because it looks like a chicken has pecked you all these little scars. There's no, like. There's no. Yeah, historically, there's just nothing that can pinpoint it. But that was the kind of what we found out out on online. That'll do nicely. Well done. Qualifications. Loads of kids with chicken box can't get much further than that. Sweetly done. Round of applause for Denise. Great stuff. So we've done that. We didn't do Carl's scar, just Karl's scar. Didn't get done. Fashion shampoo and conditioner. Cranes pile. Sorry, Kyle, mate, that's terrible. I'm going to give the game to Mike in Marlowe for no particular reason except that he made me feel very manly when we were talking about screws and DIY stuff. And I very rarely feel like that. I just, it was, it was nice for me that Mike, thank you. You spoke to me like an equal when it came to sort of posies and Philips and all the rest of it and I enjoyed feeling like an equal. I don't really go much further than putting together flat packs, but somewhere, somewhere inside me there is a carpenter struggling to get out. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player where you can also rewind live radio or enjoy the whole show podcast. So if you miss it some days you can always catch up on it. You'll get all LBC shows there together catch up on as well as all the latest news from LBC. So do rewind live radio on global player, download it for free from your App Store or just head to globalplayer.com. Tom Sawbrick will be with you at four and Sheila Fogarty is with you now.