Why are they called Tories?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is a time and mystery hour is upon us. The weekly opportunity, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available on the radio. So if you have a question in need of an answer, or indeed, if you hear anybody else ask a question to which you know the answer, then, well, you know what to do. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that we need. If you are under 18, is it 18 or 16? Either way, if you're young, then you need to get a parent's permission before you call us. You need to have a parent with you to tell us that you have permission to ring in. It's a perfectly sensible rule and very, very easy to observe, particularly during a period of. Of lockdown. And although the bulk of the questions will no doubt be asked by younger listeners, we still need to tempt the oldies onto the show to provide some, but by no means all, of the answers. It's 1204. Should we just get cracking? Mayer is in Potter's bar. Mayer, do you have a question or an answer for me? I have a question. Carry on. Why is cotton wool called cotton wool if it's 100% cotton and 0% wool? Well, why do you think? I'm not really sure. It looks quite wool. I mean, don't laugh. Do you promise you won't laugh at me? Yeah. If you had some cotton wool, right? Yeah. And it was an enormous load of cotton wool, like, you know, really big. Yeah, yeah. And it had four little legs poking out the bottom. Yeah. What would it look like? A sheep. And what are sheep's made of wool, do you think? Skin, but, yeah. Well, don't, don't spoil it. I'm just. We're talking about the woolly bits, not the skinny bits. It's not called cotton skin, it's called cotton wool. So I think it might be because it. It looks like a tiny sheep, but, yeah, it's not wool, it's cotton plant. Yeah, it does look a bit like the cotton plant. So why call it wool? Answer. It looks bit like a tiny sheep. Mayor, I'm going to be honest with you, I was expecting you to be more impressed by my answer about the tiny sheep or the enormous lump of cotton wool with four little legs poking out the bottom of it. Yeah, yeah. I'll put it on the board. I'll see what I can do. It's a brilliant question, by the way, why is cotton wool called cotton wool when it ain't got no wool in it. Zero 345-606-0973 is a number that you need. Ari hay is in. I don't know where you are, but here you are. Hendon. Hendon, Ari hay. What would you like to say? Why does alcohol make you drunk? Who have you been talking to? That's a brilliant question. How old are you? I'm eleven years old. And when did you last get drunk? I've never been drunk. Well, I'm very blooming glad to hear it, mate. You could have got me into all sorts of trouble with the authorities then, if you'd answered in a slightly unexpected fashion. When you say why, you mean how you want the chemistry, right? You want like, in your brain and how it. Brain and your body and your blood and how. How does it. How does it make people go so sort of silly? Kind of mad. Yeah, and kind of mad again. I'm wondering who you've been talking to, Harry. Eight. I should get that on the board. What a brilliant question. How does alcohol make you drunk? And why is cotton wool called cotton wool? Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call. Arlan now is in St Albans. Arlen, what would you like to. Well, do you have a question or an answer for me, Arlan? A question. Carry on. Why do wind turbines have three blades? We can work that one out, Arlan, can't we? Don't I? No. Nor do I. I was thinking you might do the clever bit now. Do you not think that they got. They made one with one blade, right? And then they made another one with two blades and then they made one with three blades and then they made one with four blades. We could be here a while, so I'm going to stop at five, all right, Arlen? Yeah. Then they made one with five blades and they turned them all on and stuck them all out in the wind and they just went to watch which one went faster. Yeah, maybe, maybe. But it's not really an expert answer, is it? If we're honest? It's just some geezer on the radio making stuff up as he goes along. And that's not what you were expecting when you rang in, frankly, is it? You were expecting a higher standard of service, Arlan. Yeah. Yeah. Well, frankly, I don't blame you. And I apologize for the dreadful, dreadful response that I provided. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. Why do wind turbines have three blades? I've been up. Oh, Arlen, are you still there? Yeah. Have you ever been up a wind turbine? No. If you go. If you're in Norfolk, near King's Lynn, if you're ever on your travels in that part of the country, there's a brilliant sort of wind turbine. It's not like a museum because museums have old things in them. What would you call it? An exhibit, an exhibition? And you can go. And you can go up the stairs inside a wind turbine, and there's a viewing platform at the top. It's a really good trip. So if you're ever in Norfolk, near King's Lynn, do look it up and go and check it out for yourself because I've got a feeling that you'll really like it. I will. You're welcome. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. All right. Sophia is in Chiswick. Sophia. Question or answer? Question. What is your question? Sophia in Chiswick, the conservative party. The nickname is the Tories. Why is that? Can't you just ask your dad? Yeah, I am. It's my first day out of the house in nine weeks and you're phoning me at work? Yeah, okay. It's a brilliant question. Why have you never asked me before? I asked you yesterday. Oh, you're spoiling the magic now. This is. And I didn't. And I didn't know the answer, did I? No. All right. Well, I'm very sorry, darling. I shall try and get you an answer to your question of why are the Conservatives called the Tories? And I'll tell Mum I'll be home by about 02:00 all right? Okay. Absolutely dizzy heights of professionalism unfolding on the program this afternoon. Phoebe is in bushy. Phoebe. Question or answer? Question, please. Did you realize, Phoebe, that. That Sophia in Chiswick before you was my actual daughter? Oh, really? Yeah. But I know something even more exciting. And that is? It's somebody's birthday. Today? No, on Saturday. Saturday? Yeah. And someone is going to be the same age as Sophia in Chiswick. You're going to be twelve on Saturday? Yeah. Two more days to go. What are you hoping to get? Well, I really want a dog. Do you? Because we've been asking for ages, but we haven't got one. Well, fingers crossed. Fingers crossed. And paws crossed as well. Now, what is your question? Phoebe? If you leave paddling pool water in the pool for too long, it grows algae. Can this happen to a bath? I think I can actually answer this. Would that be okay? Or do you want a proper grown up to do it? I don't mind. So, have you got the paddling pull? Have you been using a lot in the last couple of weeks. Yeah, yeah. And so we have as well. And the algae appears quite quickly. So I looked up on the Internet why it was happening and what you can do to get rid of it, and I think it's the sunlight that causes the algae. So it would only happen in your bath if you carried your bath into the back garden, which would be very difficult to do. And I promise you, if you try to do this today, there's no way you're getting a dog on Saturday. So do not leave your bath in the bathroom. But if you were theoretically to carry it into the background, I think the algae is something to do with a reaction caused by the sunlight. So no, you wouldn't get it in your bath. Oh. Do you accept that answer? Yes. Can I give myself a round of applause? Actually, I'm gonna give my round of applause to you as an early birthday present, Phoebe. Thanks. Here it is. And if we get a steward's inquiry on that one, I shall hang my head in shame. Happy birthday. For sale Saturday Phoebe, it's twelve minutes after twelve. You can correct that one if you want. In fact, can I add a mystery hour of my own, given that my little girl just managed to squeeze through security. Is there any way you can stop padding pools? Getting algae? Because I toyed with the idea of this is something I looked up on the Internet. And listen, if you're rolling your eyes, there's an awful lot of parents and children out there who are going to be absolutely fascinated, just like Phoebe is with the relationship between the paddling pools and the algae and the sliminess. Because you can't use the paddling pool when it's got algae in it because it gets so slimy you'll fall over, you see? So I don't laugh. I got some sterilizing tablets. You know, the tablets you use to sterilize babies bottles? This is what I discovered on my Internet search. And I thought that might. That does quite a good job of cleaning it. But then I didn't really want to get into the paddling pool when it was sort of sterilized. And then I found on the Internet a suggestion that you should throw some bicarbonate of soda in there as well. But then you need ph paper. So is there anything you can do to make sure that your paddling pool doesn't get algae? And if I got the answer to why it does wrong, then obviously you are invited to ring in as well. So questions still in need of answers include, why is cotton wool called cotton wool when it ain't got no wool in it. Why does alcohol make you drunk? How does that work? What's the chemistry? Why do wind turbines have three blades? Why are conservatives called Tories? And I think I got the swimming pool question. The paddling pool question. Right. But I'm adding a supplementary to that one, which is, is there anything you can do that lets you leave the water in the paddling pool but doesn't contract algae based problems? Joe is in Suffolk. Joe, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. The wind turbine question posed to you by a caller whose name I didn't catch. The reason that they didn't continue with things like four blades or five blades, to the best of my understanding and knowledge, is that if you have that many blades, the disturbances that you get from the tips of the blades causes the other blades to be less efficient at their job. So, like blade two would be in the wake of blade one. Exactly. Yep. And if you have four blades, then the wake not had enough time to dissipate before you get to the next blade. So you have added some expertise to my speculative answer about it basically being efficiency. So I was right, but I just did the what and you've given us the why. Exactly. That's what some of us spend four years of engineering degrees finding out the paradigm. Well, I was about to say that second guess is my next question. Your qualifications are you're an aerospace engineer. Yeah, it's, you know, it's a loose qualification, but it's something. Yeah, well, it's more use than philosophy, some might say. But then, of course, it would take a philosopher to decide. So give him a round report. Thank you, Joe. There we go. One down. One. Two. Three to go. Two down, three to go. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. It's 1215. New to LBC. Call Keir. Leader of the Labour party. Sir Keir Starmer joins LBC to take your calls. What I always get from this is a real sense of what matters to me. People telling me what they think. Frank and blunt with me, and to hear what their real concerns are. Sir Keir Starmer. Call Keir with Nick Ferrari at breakfast. Starts this Monday morning from nine only on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three. Four. Five. Six. Zero. Six. Zero. Nine. Seven. Three. Twelve. Seventeen. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Where? Mystery hour contest. Let's go to Grace, who's in Nottingham. Grace, do you have a question or an answer for me? I have a question? Yes, go on. If Cinderella's shoe fitted perfectly, how come it fell off? How old do you think the story of Cinderella is, Grace? I don't know. A few hundred years, I reckon. A couple of hundred. Is it one of Hans Christian Anderson's? Or the Brothers Grimm? Someone like that. Wouldn't it be incredible if you had now pointed out a fundamental flaw at the heart of one of the oldest stories in the english speaking world? Yeah, I'd be very impressed. I think it would be an incredible achievement. I think we both know the answer though, don't we? I don't. Well, I've got two possible answers. Do you promise not to laugh at me? I promise. Right. Number one, glass is really slippy. Yes. So even if it did fit perfectly, I mean, this won't have happened to you yet, because I think you're only eleven, aren't you? Yeah. Do you know anyone with. I'm going to ask you quite a personal question, Grace. All right. I want you to think. I want you to think very carefully before you answer it, all right? Yeah. Okay. Do you know anyone with stinky feet? Um. Yeah. Right. Do you know why those feet are? Don't tell me whose they are, because that wouldn't be fair on national radio. To name and shame whoever it is in your life who's got stinky feet. No one would enjoy that. All right. Do you know what makes them stinky? No. You see, it's sweat. So your feet sweat. And what happens when your feet sweat? They get stinky. They get stinky, but they also get a little bit slippy. So because she danced so enthusiastically and athletically with Prince Charming, and this isn't in the story, but I think it's science, her feet got quite slippy. Not stinky. Cinderella doesn't. Well, I don't know what you think. She doesn't look to me like a young woman whose feet would smell. What do you think? No, she doesn't know that she's wet. If her feet did smell, I think they'd smell of rose petals. Yeah, probably. But you see, the sweat is a liquid. So her feet got slippy. Glass is slippy. If you licked your finger and ran it down a window, would it be more slippy or less slippy than when your finger was bone dried? More slippy. Bingo. That is why the glass slipper fell off after she'd done some heavy duty dancing for about 3 hours with Prince Charming running down the stairs of the palace. Slippy feet. Glass slipper slips off. What do you reckon? I think that's a very good answer. I think we've only gone and done it, Grace, haven't we? We've solved one of the greatest mysteries of english literature. You and me together, live on the radio. Should we share a round of applause and do a high five? Yeah, let's do it. I don't know about you, Grace, but I actually did just do a high five in my studio. I hope you were reciprocating at the other end. And thank you for a brilliant answer. Brilliant question. The answer is. All right, Leo is in nunhead. Leo, question or answer? I have a question. Carry on, Leo. My question is, why do we sleep with our eyes shut? And I was also wondering, why do we dream? Well, I think you're only allowed one, aren't you? Okay, I'll choose. Why do we sleep with our eye shot? Why do we sleep with our eyes shut? I know this one again, but I don't know. Can I ask your advice, Leo? Yeah. Have you listened to mister out before, or is this your first time? I've listened to it before. Oh, good. Is it boring when I try to answer the questions myself? Uh, kind of. Ah. So you would rather wait for someone else? Possibly someone a bit cleverer. Someone a little less of a show off? You'd like someone else to ring in and answer your question? Rather not being rude. Yeah, well, just run me through that again. How. How is that not being rude, Leo? I don't really know. I shall not try to answer that question myself, then. And I'll tell you what, mate, as a special bonus point for not being rude, I'll add the dreams question to the list as well. How does that sound? Good. Good deal. Thank you. Thank you. Why do we sleep with our eyes shut? And why do we dream? I'm taking the Cinderella question all day long. Why are conservatives called Tories? Why does alcohol make you drunk? Why is cotton wool called cotton wool, despite the fact that it ain't got no wool in it? Woody is in Southwell. Woody, question or answer? Question. Carry on. What is it? Why are oranges in segments instead of one whole thing when they grow? You mean like an apple? No, a segment of an orange. No, no, no. It's all right, Granddad. I know the answer. By the way, I do know that that is Woody's. Granddad, I'm not casting aspersions upon the. I'm not casting aspersions upon the vintage of. Okay, all right, okay. No, I understood. But the point is, why isn't an orange more like an apple? Is what I was saying because an apple isn't in segments. But an orange is. Right. So why is an orange in segment? That's what we want to know. Woody, it's a brilliant question. Do you like oranges? Uh, I've never, I've never really eaten any oranges. I've not really had oranges. Okay. Well, there's. That's Granddad's work cut out for the rest of this afternoon, isn't it? Boy? Give the boy an orange grand that, will you? What is this, dickensian times? I've just ate three and I just wondered when I picked them up, why are they in segments? So you got Woody to ring in with the question. I like it. A bit of child labor. That's one way to get through lockdown with our, with our sensibilities intact. It's a lovely question. Why do oranges grow in segments? What's the evolutionary reason? It has something to do with spreading the pips. Spreading the seeds around, I think, but I don't know. So we're there. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Orange segments, sleep and dreams, conservatives, alcohol and cotton wool. Sounds like the recipe for a perfect weekend. Jesse's on the Wirral. Jesse, question or answer? Question, please carry on, Jesse. And I'm wondering why you would get sucked into a black hole. You mean why, what would I. Wondering why you get sucked into a black hole. No, I heard you. I just. I'm not as clever as you. I don't understand the. Do you mean that why would, what would, what's the physics of it? You mean. Yeah. How come you can't just sort of fly past it without any problems, but you'd actually get sucked into it? Yeah. Yeah. You're not going to go near any black holes, are you, Jesse? Yeah. Do you promise me? Not even at the weekend. All right. Because otherwise I'm not going to get you an answer to it. You need to say, I promise I won't go near any black because I know what the Wirral's like. I promise I won't go near any black hole. I'm glad we cleared that up. In that case, it's time to get an answer for Jesse. Why does a black hole suck you in? What is it? What is going on? It might be like a giant plug hole, you know, Jesse, it might be like a big plug hole in the bath. And when the water starts going like that, it goes. But if that is the answer, I'll give you the money myself. Well, great question. Thank you, mate? 25 minutes after twelve. We're building them up now. Danny's in Coventry. Danny, question or answer? Answer. Carrier. And how old are you, Danny? I'm 31 years young. 31. And is this your first time listening to mystery hour, Danny? It's actually not question or answer. He's got an answer. Which one is it? It's your question. What are the problems? Man to man to man? Yeah. God, then what have we got? The answer is the same reason why you don't get algae in swimming pools, and that's because they have chlorine filtration systems. So if you were to get with the algae in your paddling pool, you'd need. You can get like a little floatation device with chlorine tablets in it and you just put it in and it floats around and it kills all the bacteria, which is algae. And what if you were trying to pursue a chemical free lifestyle? Oh, gets a bit trickier. There's a more environmentally friendly way, which is stuff I use, which is called silver hydrogen peroxide. And basically what that does, it's basically water based, but it kills bacteria at the same time. But it's also environmentally friendly. So that's what I use in my padding pool at home. What's it called? And you just get it online, do you? Yeah. Silver hydrogen peroxide. Silver hydrogen peroxide. It doesn't sound very environmentally friendly. It sounds like the kind of stuff that people dye their hair with. Well, yeah. Well, it's slightly different. But the chemical compound is H 02:02 so it's only slightly different to actually water once it's mixed in. Okay. It's actually quite friendly as long as you use the right amount. But what I do for a job, you see. So what I was about to ask, what are your qualifications? I'm a water specialist and I specialize in getting rid of bacteria and water systems. Basically pretty well qualified to answer this question. Silver hydrogen peroxide, a little bit of that. Do it correctly because there's a lot of water. I bought a paddling pool that was a little bigger than I was expecting. I didn't really read the dimensions, I just looked at the picture. But as long as you know how much is in it and then how much you put in it and that will keep it algae free. It will indeed. Round of applause for Danny, please. Great work, sir. Great work. So we don't need to answer that. That's gone. We've crossed that one off the list. Why do oranges come in segments? Why do we sleep with our eyes shut. And why do we dream? Why are conservatives called tories? Why does alcohol make you drunk? And why is cotton wool called cotton wool? If you can answer any of those, zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you have a question, we've still got time for that as well. But those. Those are the questions still in need of answers. Oh, crikey. I've got a second page now. So, black holes. Why do black holes suck stuff in? Rays in Colchester? Ray, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Ray. Is that basically a black hole? It has an incredible mass and therefore associated with a huge gravitational field, which is the moment you pass what is called the event horizon, which is the outer limit of the black hole. Nothing will be able to get out of it. But I'm gonna sound stupid now, but I. Okay, so. But mass, it's huge. It's huge beyond our comprehension. But why would that draw me in? Because heavy stuff doesn't usually. This is gonna sound a bit silly, but heavy stuff doesn't attract just by dip. It does, it does. But the problem really is what you're then getting into is Newton's gravitational constant, which is very small. But if the mass is absolutely huge, you will be attracted to it. And these are normally, say, roughly 1820 orders of magnitude greater than our sun. What are your qualifications? Science teacher. What. What age do you teach? Eleven to eight. Sorry, twelve to 18. Well, if you were a primary school teacher, would you rephrase it slightly? Yes, I would. What I would say is that is. Is that they are very large objects. Yeah. And because they are so large, they will draw other objects to themselves because of their largeness. And that works for me. And that's called gravitational attraction. That actual. It's called gravitational attraction. And the size of it somehow increases the. Yes, yes, it does. Dramatically gravitational. Good work. I like it. And, I mean, you are a science teacher, so even I'm not going to argue with you. Round of applause, I think, for ray. Lovely answer. Black holes. Paddling pools. Don't, by the way, don't do anything with your paddling pool involving chemicals without taking either proper advice or really doing your research. I think Danny was bang on the money. But still, it's important to bear that in mind if anybody needs it. Pointing out orange segments, sleep dreams, tories, alcohol and cotton wool. It's 12:30 Tim Humphrey has the headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 the difference between mass and. Wait. The science teacher Ray knew this. It was my fault for introducing the word heavy into proceedings. Mass is. It's more to do. As Matt points out in a tweet to me, that does work for a bear of very little brain like me. A black hole is a lot of stuff squeezed into a really small area. So mass and weight aren't quite the same thing. Mass is a relationship between weight and space. Oh, boy. I kind of. My friend Scott's just been in touch to say it's going to be gutted when the kids go back to school. I know what you mean. We should try and do mister hour in the holidays. Right, guys? Can we do that? Should we try and do that? Everyone can get involved. We're trying to do mystery with special school holiday versions. When you're not obviously at school, like you're not now. 1234 is the time. Tom's in Kent. Tom, question or answer? Answer to the dream question. Oh, good. Go on. As far as I'm aware, they're not 100% sure, but one of the answers is to do with emotional processing. So there was a study where they showed a group of people distressing images and rated how they process that image. And then half the group had an eight hour gap where they're awake and half the group had an eight hour gap where they were sleeping. And the group that had asleep found the images less distressing when they were re showing them. So your subconscious sort of almost tunes itself via dreams? Yeah. And the dreams sort of help process the groups that had experienced more dreams. You can kind of, by brain scan, see who's dreaming and the people that had the dreams or processed images slightly better and felt them less emotional the second time around. I love that. Have you been observing lockdown? I'm in the fitness industry. Originally I had. We're now. I've obviously following the rules, but we're now back out and about. So when you were self isolating at home, did your dreams go nuts? No, I really dream. Unless I take. There's a supplement called ZMA that really messes up your dreams. Completely natural and healthy. But that gives you dreams. But apart from that, I don't really dream. What are your qualifications? I think you've hinted at it there with the fitness industry. Yeah, fitness industry. But there's a great book called why we sleep. Matthew Walker, I believe, which is amazing. That sounds really interesting because I was reading something last night about how people's dreams have been affected by being in lockdown. There's a sort of preponderance of persecution type dreams, and also of regression type dreams, like dreaming about childhood or dreaming about exes and stuff like that. I was talking about it on the way into work, oddly, this morning, so. Yeah. So that would make sense as well, because you're dreaming about stuff that will make you feel more comfortable in lockdown. Yeah. Helping with the process. Helping with the process. Those strong emotions. I like that. So we can cross that one off. And now we just need to know why we sleep with our eyes shut. Round of applause for Tom, please. Gary is in. Witness. Gary, question or answer? Alastair James, carry on. Yeah. Can you say what a charming young girl your daughter sounded? Of course I am. Thank you, mate. But I think all the contributors of a. Of a certain age to the program since throughout the lockdown, have been a credit ever since you started doing it with the children. How artistic. You listen. Charming. They all sound. I know, I know. It's very special. I shall miss them. It's been super. Yeah. Tories. Well, yeah, lots of these names are. It was originally used as a derogatory term. Oh, yeah. It was for this still is. Still, isn't it, Gary? Exactly. Oh, yeah. I'll just read you the lines, James. Yes. Yeah. Where it comes from was there were strong supporters of James II's claim to the throne. Okay. And they. Yeah. Through legislation in parliament, and they were called abhorrs and. Yeah, abhorrs, yes. It's a strange one, isn't it? It is a bit, yeah. They were extreme monarchists. They were strong military, and of course, they were the parliamentary opponents to the Whigs. Yes. Yeah. Also. It also the abhorrs that connotations of papists and outlaws, funnily enough. And as these names, these words and, you know, these names that are to people, it became shortening and it became Tory. And that's basically it. And it was sort of unofficially. I mean, they do semi officially call themselves the Tory party, don't they? Yeah, no, of course. I mean, it's not. It's not. It's clearly not a pejorative anymore or derogatory anymore. I. I thought. And I. It's only when you said that word then that I remembered this, because obviously I was asked this last night and I didn't know the answer. As I call a very indiscreetly revealed. I got something about. Is there not an irish connection to it somewhere? Yes. Right. Where the papists. Yeah. But that word. The word. I don't know. Well, that might. Is that a celtic word or. Oh, I'm not sure. Of the root of that. An irish one. Celtic. No, I don't. That's the only bit. That's the bit I think you've got wrong. Just. But I've got nothing to prove it. I've just got. You know what it's like. You've got something filed away. Everything you said was right. The irish connection would add to the catholic connection. Right, wouldn't it? I just got a feeling it's a gaelic word at its root. It started off with a gaelic word that sounds probably very like what you say. Well, do not. Do not think it was just an extension of. It's more of an answer. Oh, he's an Abdul. He. No, I know, I know what abhors means. I'm not completely stupid, I just. That's all right. I'm going to give you a round of applause. I'm going to give you a round. What are your qualifications? Yeah, as a member of the Labour Party. I've studied my enemies for the whole of me adult life, so, you know, it's the best way to try and defeat someone is know everything you can about them. Well, it's not going very well at the moment. It's not going very well at the moment, but practice makes perfect. Gary, have a round of applause on me. There might be room for an addition to that answer. There might not. It might. I might have gone. I might have got that completely, completely backwards. Joseph's in York. Joseph, question or answer? Do. Do nettle stings hurt animals? Oh, that's good, isn't it? Stinging nettle humans. Do they. I mean. You mean you wouldn't get stung through your fur, would you? Yeah. But animals like hedgehogs or reptiles, they might, they might. Or even like a mammal. A dog might get stung on the pads of his paws or something like that. Yeah. Do you know any very, very hairy humans, Joseph? No, I'm just wondering whether a very, very hairy human could sort of their arm or their leg could touch a stinging nettle and they wouldn't get stung because that would be part of the answer. But we want to know whether anything other than humans get stung by stinging nettles. I'd be surprised if they didn't because they probably evolved this thing to stop themselves being eaten by animals. But we shall find out for you. How old are you, Joseph? Eight. Eight years old. Brilliant. Nine next week. What day? What day next week? 12 June. 12. June. 9 years old. What are you hoping to get? I've got loads of footballs, but I want to get another one. Do you know what? I don't know whether you are old enough to realize this yet, Joseph, but you can never have too many footballs because you never know when you're going to lose one, do you? Well, you never know when one's going to pop. You always need a spare. And what if you had a real nightmare of a day and you actually popped four in a row and you didn't have five? You wouldn't be able to play football. Man. Could you imagine that? That would be bad. That would. But I've got loads of footballs already, so. Yeah, I know, but we won't get one. Well, we shall see. Maybe you get a kit. Who do you support? Don't say York City. Um, York City. Derby and England, in that order. Um, no. Good work. Have a round of applause. Yeah, I like Derby. I was born in Derby. I like that. That's a good answer, but, yeah. And then. And then New York City. And then England. Um. Yeah. Good man. You've already had a round of applause. Now I'll get you an answer. Do stinging nettles hurt other animals? Zero. 345-606-0973 it's 1242. Raj is in Horn church. Raj, question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on, Raj. So, before knowing how the alcohol makes it run, because you have to know what is the blood brain barrier? It's basically a mechanism. It's a physical mechanism that allows some certain drugs to enter into bloodstream. The alcohol, which is ethanol, it cannot stop the ethanol to pass. So therefore, ethanol passes into bloodstream at. And then it interferes with the neurotransmitters and it slows down your system reaction, makes you feel drunk. We need to translate it into language that an eight year old will understand, Raj. So, shall I have a go and you tell me whether I'm right or not? Yeah, of course. So you've got neurotransmitters in your noggin, right? That's right. And they will control things like vision and balance and inhibitions and language, speech skills, motor skills. All of these things are controlled by neurotransmitters. Excellent. There's ethanol in alcohol. Ethanol is alcohol. So you have a drink of ethanol, and the more ethanol that gets into your bloodstream, the more impact and influence that has on your neurotransmitters. So if you think of a neurotransmitter as an aerial, the ethanol comes along and gives it a bit of a shake, and everything goes a bit wobbly. So your inhibitions will be reduced, your motor skills will be compromised. Your speech might become slurred, your vision might become a little bit cloudy and you might laugh uproariously at things that actually aren't very funny. Yeah, brilliant. Yeah. That's a very good answer. I'm only translating you into eight year old. What are your qualifications? I'm a paramedic. Oh, thank you for everything you're doing and have a round of applause on ours. Thank you very much. Great answer. It's all about the neurotransmitters in your noggin. In it. Sharon is in Liverpool. Question or answer, Sharon. Hi, James. I've got an answer. I'm no expert, but just something that happened with me. Go on. My. One of my dogs was stung by nettles at the back of my mum's garden a few months ago. I didn't realize her first. They react differently to us. Her whole body was squirming when you spoke to her, so terrified. Took her to the vets and she'd obviously been stung by nettles and that's why. Whereabouts her body was it? All over, probably on the paws. But you couldn't touch her at all. Whenever you start stroking, her whole body was rising. So, I mean, it's a straight answer, isn't it? Do any other animals get stung? Yes, Sharon's dog does. Presumably other dogs do too. Other mammals. But that. You can't get a more evidence based answer than. That's proper science, that is Sharon, what we just did. Proper science. And also, I love the detail around the back of your mum's garden as well, just in case anybody was. In case anybody was worried about the circumstances, saw the geography of it. Is the dog all right now? She's absolutely fine. A week of steroids and it was gone. Oh, it's a big deal, then. And it must be to stop. I mean, the stings must exist to stop animals getting in. Definitely getting in among them or eating them. Yeah, she was. When they get stung, the whole. The way we feel it in a certain area from the nettles, so, you know, it starts throbbing. Well, apparently it's like that through a dog. So when I was. She was feeling that sting and we feel every time she was. Oh, Lordy Blimey. So keep your dogs away from stinging nestles. If we've learned anything today, we've learned that. A round of applause for Sharon, please. Thank you. A lovely answer. 1246 is the time. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1248 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien. On LBC quite a lot. Well, a few still need answers. I thought the cotton wool one. I bet I got it right. I bet I spoilt it with my giant sheep theory. Why is it called cotton wool? Because it looks like wool. I mean, imagine a giant piece of cotton wool. And Mayer was, I think, amused rather than impressed by my answer. But if we don't get an answer, Mayer, that would be, I think, probably the one to take away. Why do we shut our eyes when we sleep? Why do oranges come in segments? I like that one. We've done the black holes, we've done the swimming pools, the paddling pools, we've done the wind turbines. I think we've done a lot, actually. But we shall find out whether or not we can just tick off these last three. Jonathan's in ashford. Jonathan, question or answer? Hello. Good afternoon. It's an answer to the question of the fruit. Oh, marvellous. Carry on. Yes. So basically every. I don't know the exact mechanism, but every fruit has evolved to optimize reproduction for the plant that's producing it. So in the case of the orange, the outer skin is bitter. So you won't, you won't, whatever animal you are, presumably a primate with opposed thumbs or whatever, you won't bite into it, you'll actually take the skin off. And then essentially, by having segments, it's optimizing its chance of reproducing amongst the most number of whatever's eating it in order to be spread out through the widest area. Whereas if you take, like, a cherry that has a single stone for the express purpose of a bird eating it, flying somewhere, and then planting a new cherry tree, unwittingly, probably on your back fence or under your tv aerial or something. So in the case of the orange, I don't know which animal ate it. I suspect it's a primate. Yes, because you would need some sort of mechanism for removing the bitter outer part and consuming the inner part, which wants you to do so, you then go and pass the contents of your tummy onto soil which will allow the seed of the orange to grow. Of course, there is a question. Would you chew the pip? Probably not, because pips are bitter. You're covering a lot of ground here. But the bottom line is that it increases your chances of reproduction, of replicating your genes, your orangey genes. So all kinds of fruits, you've got fruits with stones, your cherries, you've got fruits with small seeds like tomatoes and grapes. So each segment, in a sense, is a potential orange tree, whereas usually with a cherry. Eat only one cherry. One cherry is a potential cherry tree. One orange is ten potential orange trees? Correct. And they have a backup plan. Fruit. If they can't be consumed, then if you like, the food supply that rots around the fruit as it falls on the ground will provide some sort of basic nutrient to get the fruit off growing on the ground under the tree. But that's suboptimal because otherwise you'd end up with a standard, very weedy cherry tree or very weedy orange trees. Whereas what you want is a bit further away, savannah, covered in orange trees, if you're an orange tree. Qualifications? A horticulture. RhS. Oh, fantastic. Absolutely lovely. Queues are reopened this week, hasn't it? Yes. Yes. I'm gonna head down there. Um, round of applause for Jonathan. I love that answer. So it was that botany or biology? Horticulture. No, I know, but. But the. I mean, the. Yeah, I thought so. And I would need my daughter's ecologist at Oxford and she would give the science, the exact science behind the genetics as to why particular plants evolve. But I'm nothing like as clever as her. I'm sure you are. And if you're not, then you've clearly led her down the right paths. 1251. What a lovely answer. Oliver's in Leicester. Oliver, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The origin of the word Tory is from Ireland and it means bandit, outlaw or brigand. That. That's the one. What. What was the word? What was the word that it comes from? Can you remember, uh, Toraid, which is the Scott Scarlet version? Okay. Um. That. That. I'm not going to take away the other fellow's round of applause because he was on completely the right path. But I don't know why I had that little nugget niggling away in the back of my brain. I suddenly remember it was irish while he was talking. So what are your qualifications, Oliver? I was a politics. I'm a politics graduate. And that came up at college. Did it at university? Yes, it did. Good man. Round of applause for Oliver, please. It is 1252. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Have we done it? Have we come in early this week? No, we've still got. We still don't know why cotton wool is called cotton wool and why you sleep with your eyes shut. I can answer. Well, I think I have successfully answered the cotton wool question, but it wasn't good enough for mayor, which is fair enough. She was a young lady of high discernment. And the cotton wool question the eyes shut question we need as well. Just squeeze in another quick one. Jay is in Kingston, up on Thames. Jay, do you have a question or an answer? A question. Carry on, mate. Why are queen ants usually darker than worker ants? Blimey. I mean, the problem with this question is it sounds to me like you already know more about ants than anybody else. Listening to the program does. I've done a lot of research. You've done a lot of research, but you haven't found an answer to this. Are queen ants bigger than normal ants? Yes. It depends on the species, though. If you're looking at something like bull ants. Yes. Then they're basically the same size. There might be one or 2 mm difference for most of them. If you're looking at the common black garden ants. Yes. It's just niger, it's a species. Yes. Then the queen ant is actually a lot bigger, many millimeters bigger. It's about five to 7 mm bigger. Well, because I was going to suggest that the queen ant would be darker for ease of recognition, but if she's already twice the size of the usual worker ants, they're not going to need a. They're not going to need a color based clue as to which one is the queen and which one isn't, are they? Yeah. They aren't. They aren't. We've got a problem, Jay, we've got a problem. We've only got five minutes left, mate. Do you think any. What? Do we need an entomologist. Well, you're already an entomologist, really, aren't you? Well, actually, I'm not qualified, but I've done a lot of research. I would call you an entomologist. Entomology. I bet you are. I can tell. How old are you? I'm eleven. An eleven year old entomologist? I've never spoken to an eleven year old entomologist before. Yeah, it's a cool. It's a cool hobby, mate. And hopefully we can find a slightly older entomologist who'll be able to tell us why queen ants are darker than worker ants. But we've only got four minutes left, so let's make it urgent. Come on, let's get an answer. Four j. Why are queen ants darker than worker ants, but only in certain species? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Jay. Great work. Will is in Stratford. Will, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Actually, it's about the cotton wool question. Oh, yeah. You're actually basically more or less correct in that we kind of think we thought it was called cotton wool because it looked like wool. But essentially cotton isn't native to Europe. It's native to, I think, Pakistan or something. And so for hundreds and hundreds of years, cotton was imported across to Europe and we had no idea what it was. We knew it looked like wool, but all we knew about it is that it came from a plant. Basically, what a lot of people thought was, oh, it's just a. It's just wool that grows on a plant. But especially in the north of Europe, where it was much, much rarer until kind of the late medieval period, a lot of places basically thought that it was, it was, I think the Germans called or something. The Germans literally called it tree wool. A lot of people genuinely thought that essentially, like little sheep and little lambs grew on trees in India. Gosh. And if you look up on, like, Wikipedia and stuff, you'll see that there are some old, quite 14th century pictures or 12th century pictures, sorry, of cotton plants, but with sheep growing out of them. Gosh. Oh, you live and learn. What are your qualifications? Basically, this was idle curiosity of my own a while ago. I just decided to look it up at some point. But, yeah, I just. I basically thought exactly the same sort of question. Why is it called cotton wool? And I thought, yeah, I was just. Well, I suspect that with your historical knowledge and your comparisons and your geographical references, Mayer will be a lot more impressed with you then with my suggestion that if she imagined a giant ball of cotton wool with four little legs sticking out the bottom, then she'd understand that the sheep based similarities were behind the name. But you get the round of applause. Yeah, well, I've got applause coming out of my pockets at the moment, so you have this one. Thank you very much. 1257 is the time Lauren is in Ealing. Lauren, question or answer? Answer. Okay, I'm just going to do a quick appeal because I'm glancing at the clock. We've got about 90 seconds left, if you know why queen ants are darker than worker ants. Me now on zero. 345-606-0973 sorry. Lauren, what is your answer? It must be to the sleeping with your eyes shut question, wasn't it? Yeah, that's because when we blink, there's actually a liquid that goes over your eyes and renews them and keeps them from drying out. And so if you had your eyes open all night, you would have a problem of them drying out. Likewise, when you sleep, your whole body goes through any repair process as it needs to. And so having that sort of protective covering also helps in sort of the repairing process as well. Qualifications. I did biochemistry at uni and I'm a complete nerd. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Lauren, I think a complete genius rather than a complete nerd. There are a lot of young people listening, Lauren, and we're encouraging them to embrace education in ways that perhaps some members of the older generation failed to do. That is perfect. The only thing we haven't got is that answer for j. We don't know why a queen ant is darker than a soldier ant, but we might well return to it at a later date. In the meantime, thank you to everybody who got in touch today. It has become quite unexpectedly and certainly not deliberately. I'm not going to claim any credit at all for it. It just happened quite organically during lockdown, largely because one of the callers that you heard earlier, we got one to squeeze in quickly from Amaya in Peterborough. Amey. A question or answer? Question. Carry on. So, if. If the coronavirus is taking over all the news in the UK, then what's happening with Brexit? Amaya. Tune in tomorrow and every day for the next five years to find out. In the meantime, have a round of applause for a brilliant question. The short answer is this. On a scale of one to ten, if one is good and ten is bad, what would be the worst? The most bad? Number one. No, ten. Let's do it again. On a scale of one to ten, if one is good and ten is bad, what would be the baddest number? 1010. Yeah. Well, Brexit's going worse than that. Ameya. I shall keep you and your family up to date, I promise, in the coming years, because otherwise none of the liars will be held to account. What a lovely question. What a lovely moment for which to say, let's do it all again tomorrow morning. From ten, here's Sheila Fogarty. A short statement from the german public prosecutor removed all but the last remnants of hope for the family of Madeleine McCann, abducted from a holiday villa in portugal 13 years ago. She'd be 17 now, but today, german authorities said they're investigating a 43 year old german man on suspicion of murder. I'll have reports throughout the afternoon, but my main focus today is on the increased evidence that here in the UK, lockdown has become optional. No longer a communal duty to protect one another from a powerful virus requiring self discipline, but a pick and mix of activities that suit you and your needs. Are you picking and mixing when it comes to lockdown?