Can chickens have twins?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, four minutes after twelve is the time. Weird day that, hey, 2 hours already we've been together. Doesn't feel like that long, does it? Oh, does it? How long? Oh, okay. Well, this will move a bit quicker anyway. I promise on my honor, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. It's like a vip lane of radio, except there's no 29 million quid at the end of it, however brilliant your contribution may be. If you've got a question, what needs an answer, call me now. Zero. 345-606-0973 someone else will know the answer. There are hardly any rules. There are very few criteria for question inclusion. We try and avoid repetition. But we gave up on being too strict about that when we noticed that we weren't capable of remembering what we'd had for breakfast, never mind what we might have covered on mystery hour. Two years, two months or even two weeks ago. There wasn't one last week, so expect a little bit of a log and don't look anything up. You're not allowed to consult Google or any other form of reference because somebody listening will know the answer and we can't wait to hear from them. That's pretty much it. Except to remind you that there is a prize now on mystery hour. There is? I got asked about mystery hour on celebrity mastermind. Did I tell you this, Keith? No, it was amazing. Clive. Myrie wanted to know more about it. I don't know if it'll make the edit or not, but it was quite a moment when you think back to how this began, as a fairly silly diversion designed to allow us to spend an hour not talking about the news on the day of a by election when you're not allowed to talk about politics or by elections. We just came up with this all those many, many moons ago. And now, not only has it spawned nearly decades of entertainment, but it's its very own board game, and it gets a mention. I'm sitting in the mastermind chair talking about mystery hour. There are moments in my life I've got to tell you in the last few years where I can't quite believe the direction that things have gone in, but that is absolutely up there. Pardon? Mystery. Yeah, all right, fine. Bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom, bom. Specially subject. Mystery out. Specially subject. Brexit benefits. Clive, please. That'll be on over the Christmas period. So, yeah, you might. Then again, you might not want to watch it. But there is a board game, and it's actually brilliant. I gloss over this usually, but now that Christmas is running coming up, I should tell you how it works. What I love about it is that there's a question which has come up on Miss Jarrah at some point in the past. So the more you listen, the bigger the head start you've got over your family and friends. If you decide to play over the Christmas period, there's a question, and then there's two answers, one of which is correct and one of which is not correct. And the one that's not correct often came up on the show as well. Because, you know, when we reject, we don't do that as much as we used to do, actually, do we? But we used to take answers without paying that much attention to whether they were right or wrong or not. Because sometimes the wrong answers would be so funny that the whole appeal of mystery out often hinged on the wrong answers as much as the right answers. So there's two questions there, two answers there to every question. But then, and this is the beauty of it, then there's the third one as well, which you make up yourself. So you get a bit of time at the beginning of the game to go through the cards you've been dealt. Everyone starts with a handful of question cards, and you come up with a false question yourself. So one of my favorites was, why don't icebergs float away and you've got the obvious answer, then you've got a feasible wrong answer, but then you've got one you make up yourself, or whatever the question is. And if you can get people to think that the one you made up is the right answer, then you're going to win the game, even if you're not good at other elements of it, which involve guessing what's the right answer on other people's questions. If you can get people, you get double points if people choose your wrong answer to the question, and then the rest of it, the board is just the ladder. So you just move places according to how many points you get. You get points for fooling people, you get double points for fooling people with the one that you made up yourself. And you get points for guessing the correct answer when it's somebody else's go. And I can categorically tell you that it is fun for all the family. It really is. Including my friend. Scott found a way of playing it with his little girl, which I think they just do. The two questions, they don't bother making up the false ones, so you just have to guess what's the right answer out of two choices. So it's 50 50. And the fun of that as well is considerable. All in a box, all for 20 quid. You can get it at Mysteryad dot co dot UK comma or in all sorts of places. Some that you'd expect and some perhaps that you wouldn't. Tom says, stop waffling, man, and get on with mystery hour. That's very cruel, Tom, because you are denying people the opportunity to get hold of their very own mystery hour board game in time for Christmas. But you don't need to buy it. Make the best contribution of the day to today's mystery hour and you get. You win one. Terms and conditions can be found at LBC dot co dot UK dot. So there it is, we're off. Mystery hour, as featured on mastermind, brackets, although it may not make the edit. Close brackets, Catherine York Cath. Question or answer? It's a question. James. Hi. Yeah, carry on. I'm a bit nervous, so please bear with me. It's only me. A few weeks ago, I was cooking myself an egg butty. I tried egg, but I don't have them very often. Very nice. And I was thinking, when my parents ran a b and b in Scotland, they used to get local farmers and a lot of the time there were double yokers. Yes, of course. And I haven't had a double yoker for years and I was just wondering, and I've been thinking about ever since, is it possible to get, like, twin hatchlings? So one egg with two chicks in it? Yeah, yeah. Did they ever hatch out? Did any go beyond being a double yolk or regular frying panel ever to. Oh, Will. I mean, I've used it, obviously. Maybe one will eat the other, you know what I mean? Absorb the other and maybe just isn't bothered. That's a good question. I'm very ignorant on eggs anyway, because I don't really get them, if that makes sense. What do you mean, you don't get eggs? Well, like fertilization. Well, sometimes you find one with a foot inside or something like that. Not. You found a foot in an egg. Well, you know, you get that. Well, maybe not a veiny bit, a red bit, you know what you think. I mean, there's a big difference between a bit of. A bit of blood in an egg and a foot, cath, you've never found. Well, I said I was ignorant on it. You didn't say you're not being ignorant, you're being that you've never found a foot in an egg. Well, probably not a foot, no. But a red, veiny bit where you just stop it now. There's a big. Yes, we've all found a sort of red, veiny bit. But where did you get a foot from? Well, probably overreact to the imagination and panic at all the excitement. It's all the excitement of being on the radio. I mean, it's an odd manifestation of excitement. Some people stutter, some people forget their thread. You invented a foot in an egg. All right, then, a red, horrible, Yuki looking. Yes. So do. Can chickens have twins? Can one egg produce two chicks? I watch spring watch and things like that. Yeah, but I've never seen two chicks come up, so I think it might be a really dumb question. You can get. It's definitely not a dumb question. You can get double yo. I think, asda now do double yokers. You can actually buy a box of double yokers, you know. Well, like I said, when we lived in Scotland, we used to get loads. It was irregular. Sometimes you get regular, but I haven't had one in years. They check it with a lamp. They check it with a lamp in the hatching in the. In the shed. They can see. They shine a lamp through the egg and they can see whether it's got two yolks or not. So there must be a. They must have done some sort of genetic selection. Yeah. All right, I'll find out for you. Can eggs have twins? Can chickens have twins? Can chickens have twins? Yeah. Thank you. Brilliant. You're on. All right, thanks, James. And has anyone ever found a foot in an egg? Zero. 345-606-0973 thank you, Cath. Tim's in Tunbridge. Tim, question or answer? It's the question. Carry on. I have a cordless vacuum cleaner and it kept cutting out and I took it to the dealer shop and I said, look, what's this? It keeps cutting out. And I ended up hoovering the shop floor for a full five minutes and it didn't cut out, which is great. But the point was, I looked in that it has a drum and you can see all the dust and things that clanks in it, and I want to know, why is dust always grey? Well, it's not, is it? It is. Well, it isn't. It is. I had a whole drum full of it. Yeah. It's almost always grey. It's almost always grey. But if you hoovered. I don't know if you hoovered up. If you spilled some flour. No, I hoovered up your shop floor. It's blue and it was still. There was no blue in there. It was great. No, I mean, you're right. Up to a point. I'm just saying it is possible to conceive of circumstances where dust wouldn't be grey, for example, if you were hoovering on a sandstone rock. Oh, well, then that will clog it up. Because I've been. That's why it will be all right. Cutting out because I've been hoovering up the wrong things. I mean, it's actually quite a good. I like this question, actually. Thank you. It is really good. Your finger along the top of. That's great. Yeah, it's great. Well, I think a large proportion of dust is skin, isn't it? No, it is shed skin. Did you not know that? I know. I know it is that, but I mean, that means we'd be happy. The amount of dust that I was picking up would be skinless, wouldn't we? I mean, it's the defining color. A dull color is going to overcome other colors. You mean, if you put it under a microscope, there'd probably be specs in it, wouldn't there? No, it'd be great. No, I think it's going to be to do with the spectrum. It's when you mix up lots and lots of color. What? Think. Ah, hang on, I'm getting it. No, no, I am, I am, I am, I am. Think about paint. Think. Okay, so that's just because. No, no. You've been talking all the time, mate. Yeah, I know. Hello. Welcome to the James O'Brien experience. So I want you to imagine you've got some paint ready. Oh, that was my question last week and I didn't get on. You've got some red paint and you've got some blue paint. You mix them together, what do you get? A deep purple. Correct. Good band. Now add some yellow. Yes. You'll get, what should we say? A light. Very light. Plum. Plum. Okay. Now some. Now a bit of black. Oh, dear. Carry on. Keep it in your mind. Keep it in your mind, Tim, don't let it go. Look into my eyes. Look into my eyes. Keep it in your mind. Burgundy. All right. Now add some white. Yeah. Then you're going to go to pink. You're not going to pink, man. You've got red, green, blue, black, white and green and pink and yellow and orange and ochre. And I have. You know, I ran a graphic design agency. I know my colors fine, but eventually red and yellow and pink. And green, orange and purple and blue. Eventually it's going to be great. They say, no, they think, I can see a car crash. I see a rainbow. How is it a rainbow? I can see your rainbow. No, no, no. Eventually it's going to be gray. That will be the answer. I can tell already you're not going to accept it from me, but eventually the answer will be that if you mix together all the colors, it's gray. No, because every object in the universe is black. Well, now you just be silly. It's 1215. Why is dust always grey? And can chickens have twins? Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. Can chickens have twins? And why is dust grey? I love both of those questions. In fact, they're pretty good mystery introductions, aren't they? Because you'll be sitting there going, oh, I know, yeah. I don't know. Or you might be going, oh, that's who. Everyone knows. Chickens can't have twins or chickens can have twins. If my peacock laid an egg in your garden, Keith, who would it belong to? I'll tell you later. Jane's in Brora in the highlands. Jane, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Can chickens have twins? Now, that's a question. Yeah. No, I'm going to give you the answer. Oh, my. Sorry. Carry on. Yes, they can. But. But they generally don't. Well, the same with humans. Yeah. It's a little bit more tricky, I suppose. So, yes, you can get a double yolk and yes, both of those yolks can be fertilized. So in theory you've got the, you know, the right initial ingredients for twins, but as they develop, the little air bubble that's in the egg that keeps the chick alive as it starts to hatch is too small. It's really just designed. It's a chicken. A chick Airbnb for one. And so they can both develop and on an odd occasion, they will both hatch. But generally either one hatches and one dies or they both die, so. Better. But they can occasionally make it, you mean. Yeah. That's lovely qualifications. I'm going for a double qualification. I am a keeper of poultry. Yes. And I'm a wild bird rehabber. A wild bird rehabber. Yeah. So if you're out and about and you find, I don't know, a barn owl with a broken wing or a goose with a broken foot or a peacock in the longer. No, I'm. We don't want peacocks. Why not? What's wrong with peacocks? Okay. Love peacock. Love peacocks. And so if you find that. Well, but most of my time is spent raising baby birds, so, in chick season. And we raise. Yeah. So, bird rehabber pretty strong. Do you want to mention the place so that people cannot show their support for it or not? It's up to you entirely. Yeah, absolutely. I'd love to. It's blue highlands bird rescue. Well, you rescue birds. Exactly. It says on the tin it's including the tight. But it's lovely stuff. A beautiful qualification as well. Thank you, Jane. Have a round of applause. Thank you very much. Oh, thank you very much. That was a lovely answer. Suella Bravaman probably disapproves of that, you know, offering. Taking up pauly birds and helping them, practically bird refugees. Hazel staying in Scotland. It's because I made so many new friends yesterday with my coverage of the. That judicial decision handed down. Hazel's in Kilsyth. Hazel, question or answer? I've got a question. Carry on. So, I'm watching the World cup at the moment and I'm just wondering why some countries on the score ticket would have their. The way that they would say the name of their country, rather than the english way. So, for example, Spain yesterday had ESP, which I'd assume would be Hispania. Yeah. But Germany wouldn't have du for Deutschland, because it's the german team. Yeah. So they had GDR. Yeah, no, you're right, yeah. I thought you were asking a silly question, then. I was getting ready to be all cocky and condescending, Hazel, for the first time in my life. But, um. But no, what, so, yeah, so what do Germans call Germany? They call it Deutschland, don't they? Yeah. So you would expect, then, if it was to be deux Hispania Deu. Yeah, because they're esp for Hispania. Well, I mean, it's on the board. Which is Swiss. Yeah. I'm not too sure that one. Yeah. Germany football team is. It is the. I mean, maybe. I don't. I'm not going to get there. I'm just annoyed that I don't know the answer to this, because it seems. It seems like we should. You're on. Okay. You're on. Why do. I mean, it's. Yeah. No, thank. It may be that Germany. Can you think of another one? I think Germany is the question. Actually. It's not. It's not the. Because all the other countries. Why are they not the EU? Anyway, it doesn't matter. You don't have to. So what's going on there? Spain is ESP. Germany is Germany, which is an english speaker we don't understand because you can see why Espana would be EsP. But Germans don't call Germany Germany, do they? So what? Anyway, we'll find out. Thank you, Hazel. Karen is somewhat. Someone's messing with me again. Now we're going to take every call from Scotland. Is this going to be a scottish mystery hour? The first call wasn't from Scotland, was it? Although it was from Yorkshire. But. But Cath had. Her parents had a b and b in Scotland, so this is so far, it's an entirely scottish phone in. The number you need is 03450. Tim in Tunbridge. Ruin it for everybody. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Karen is in East Kilbride. Karen, question or answer? Question. Go on. How do dogs know what time it is? Check their watch. My dog knows in the morning to wake me up between just about 07:00 for her breakfast. Well, she's hungry. 05:00 at night. Every Friday. Every night at 05:00 she comes and she hits me. Yeah. At that time for dinner. Well, there's your answer. But how does she know it's 05:00 she doesn't know it's 05:00 she knows it's tea time. Her body is telling her the level of doesn't do it before then. Well, no, because I had a dog years ago that used to always know when it was lunchtime and my mum was coming home. Not for lunch or anything. No. I do believe it. I do believe. I do believe that dogs have a 6th sense in some ways. But the answer to your question is, it's not the time. The dog doesn't know it's 05:00. The dog knows it's dinner time. Yeah, but has there got to be a length of time before they come for dinner? No, it's a level of hunger. If you started feeding the dog at 04:00 every day, after a week, the dog would come and hit you at 04:00. Not at 05:00. If you started feeding the dog at 06:00 you'd have a week of being hit at 05:00. But you'd have to get to the end of that and then start feeding the dog at 06:00 and then the dog would come and get you at 06:00. Right. Well, the interesting point is when the clocks go forward. Yes. He gets confused. Well, even the clocks went back. She still comes at 05:00. Uh huh. I got you. You know you haven't. I'm just thinking, how dare you sit here. I mean, first of all, do I. First of all, do I believe you? You don't have a dog. Yes, I do have a dog, and I'm just trying to remember that I've got three cats at the moment as well. When the weather's going cold, it's like a flipping safari park in our house. I have to be careful where I'm also. I'm going through that thing now of turning all the lights off because I'm not the electricity board. I've turned into my dad. So I turn all the lights off and then I tread on a cat. It's getting ridiculous. So we did the dog. The clock went back recently, didn't it? Or forward, or one or the other. And everyone was confused. They were coming for their food at 04:00. No, she was still coming at 05:00 but when the clocks go forward, we always notice. That confuses us. Yeah. Oh, I don't know. All right. No, it's not quite. I should have done a watchdog joke here. I can't believe I missed the opportunity. She's a watchdog. Ask me again. Let's pretend I'll do this as a clip. Karen is an east kill bride. Karen, question or answer? Question. Yeah. How do. Do dogs know what time of day it is? They watch dogs. No, I got laughter in the background. Get in. Yes, I'll try and get you an answer. Thank you. Take care. Thank you. Gareth is in Chester le Street in County Durham. So we're staying up there, but not quite up there. Question or answer, Gareth? It's an answer, mate. Carry on. What was the name of the nice lady who asked the question about the football? Can you remember? Oh, I wasn't listening because I've gone away from the radio while I've been waiting to speech on the phone. All right. Don't worry. Well, in Kilsize. What was her name? Hazel. In Kilsize, I just like to keep proper notes. Otherwise I come across like an amateur, and I've got to choose a winner. Question or answer, Gareth. It's an answer. Carry on. Dust. It isn't grey, but we perceive it as being grey. You were pretty much right when you were talking about the mix of colors. So if you have. If you have dust that's just come from one thing. Say you grind in some white foam or something, and you get this dust that comes off. It'll look white, because all the dust that's there is from the same thing. But dust in your house is from many different things. And when you mix lots of different colors together. You generally get an average grey color, if you. So if you think. Yeah, if you think about your television, it's RGB. It's got three colors. You can make gray out of those three colors. It's an exact same amount of each. Three colors? Oh, yeah. So you perceive it as being grey. It's just the way your eyes perceive the refractions. It averages it all out. Yeah. So the colors all sort of merge into one, as it were. And that one is grey. I like it. I thought so. But you've done it cleverly than I did. More cleverly than I did. Question or answer? Question or answer? Do I have to answer? What do I mean? Question or answer? Qualifications? My qualifications. I've got a degree in photography, video on digital imaging. That'll do nothing. So we deal with colours and mixing them all up. I have a round of applause. Thank you. Very nicely done. I should just write down your name next to the grey dust question. And they're still looking for a winner. 1228. Squeeze in one more and then we'll head towards the news. And then more mystery. Our questions and answers. Tristan is in Bury St Edmunds. Tristan. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Why has denim clothing always been mostly blue, whilst clothing made from other fabrics has always been a wide range of different colors, sort of reds and greens and browns and stuff like that, whereas denim stuff has always been mostly blue. I know this. Oh, do you? Yeah, I do. Right. It's because it stays blue. There's something about indigo that gets into the fabric and if they. If you did it a different color, it would fade a lot more quickly. In fact, you know that, don't you? Because your jeans, unless you buy stonewashed jeans or faded jeans, they keep their color really, really well. Yeah. Maybe not as well as black. I don't know. There may have been reasons at the time what was available and what wasn't available, but it's the chemical. The chemistry of the. Of the dye acts on the fabric in a way that keeps the colour more than any other colour back in the day, back in denim or wherever it was made. Right, okay. Why doesn't it affect other fabrics, like cotton t shirts? It probably does. I don't know that. That's not what you asked. I've answered your question. Don't be greedy. All right, all right. That is definitely qualifications. I think it might have come up before. Right, right. Okay. Right. And you were closed seller anyway, so there was a closed seller, although we certainly didn't sell denim in aquascutum of Regent Street. Tristan. I mean, how'd that. Round of applause for me, please. And Tristan's name is on the list. I mean, I may have got some of the details slightly wrong, but it is to do with the die. The die. The die. The die. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1234. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Lee's in Durham. Lee, question or answer? It's an answer, James, and I do hope you're a lot easier to convince than your research team. Wow. Yeah, well, we can't be faffing about Lee. We get all sorts of flotsam and jetsam ringing in. Seriously. It's the letters you see on the football. Oh, yes. And it is quite simple in whoever owned the original. Right to the broadcast. Yeah. Then decides what you get. A lot of channels that piggyback off others. Rather than having 100 cameramen in the stadium, you might have an EU cameraman who puts it as ESP. And then ITV or Sky or other medias would then piggyback off a broadcast. Okay. You're going to challenge me? Like your team? You're not going to challenge you. I just. I don't. I don't understand why Spain would be a Spaniard and Germany would be juror. Because. Because in Europe. Well, in Europe, they typically just call Spain ESP. That's just the way Europeans called Spain. Europe's bigger than England, so when we buy it, we typically stand out. So what the Spaniards call Germany. What does Spanish call Germany? Deutschland. It'll be du. Oh, then you've just talked yourself out of a round of applause, then. Because why is Germany Ger? What? The Ger will be the UK. We're feeding it, we're changing it. But then why are we changing Spain? We would change Spain to Spa. No, we wouldn't. It's eSP watching the World cup now. Spain is esP and Germany is ger. I don't know. We don't change it. So if we've. Listen, I'm going to judge from the confidence, from the confidence with which you're speaking. I think I'm being a bit dozy here. So if ITV. You've got a little. I don't know why it has to be little. A cameraman in the stadium, it'll come through with Spa. If they've said, can I nick your feed? It will come through with ESP because it's the original feed that's being broadcast. They're just stealing a cable. Yeah, no, I get that. I think I understand all of this, but I don't understand why Germany is ger. And pretty much every other country we can think of is the first three letters of what they call themselves. So Germany's ger because we've changed it. Yeah, but why haven't we changed Spain? Because we didn't have the feed. But in the World cup. Now I'm beginning to lose my confidence that I'm being dozy here. Look, we are watching the World cup. It's Spain versus Germany. Right? Right. Okay. And it's ESP. It's ESP versus ger. How has that happened? But we haven't done that, though. The question was getting confused between them. It's the always. It would have shown if it's our cameraman, it would be ger versus the Spanish, called Germany. Alamanna now would just be Deutsche. It's always been Deutschland. But it isn't. Is. It's ger. It's de. If it was their feet, it was du versus versus esp. I don't care whose feet it is. If we watch the World cup in England this year, Spain is esP and Germany is ger. Which means if they were to play each other, it would be ESP versus ger. Esp. No. Yes, but it wouldn't be. Why not? But it doesn't matter who's got. This is what we're watching this week. Spain is eSP and Germany is Geo. No, it is. That was the whole point of the question. No, I think the lady was getting confused. That was. I think one of you is confused. I'm 52%, you 48%. You're not getting a round of applause, but I part. We'll pass because I'm probably going to eat humble pie. Ten minutes. I'm leaving it on. What are your qualifications? I did a media and performing broadcast when I was younger. Right. Yeah. Well, I'll apologize now if I've unfairly maligned you, but I don't. I'm not having that. Not yet. Mike. Is Milo. I beg your pardon? Is in Cookham. Milo. Question or answer? Answer. That guy couldn't be more wrong if he tried. That's what I thought, but don't be unkind. Go on. So if it's in a UK broadcast, if it's recognizable still, ESP has an SP and it looks a bit like Spain, so they leave it. Whereas if it's Greece, which would start with hel. If you were speaking in the greek tongue. It's completely unrecognizable. As Greece, as is Serbia, which would be HIV. So if it's a bit recognizable, they'll leave it, and if it's unrecognizable, they change it. And that is the answer. So hang on a minute. I know this voice, do I? No. Why are you confident? Where did Milo come from? I don't know. I am Milo. Milo. No, you're not. I am. I'm a smilo, Milo. No, you're not. Well, now I'm going to. I'm right, aren't I? It's question or answer. Yeah. You're Chris Evans and I claim five pounds. Okay. Qualification. You very kindly took me and Steve Allen out for lunch last week and the laughter is still out, echoing in my ears. That was close before. In your life. I have no idea what you're talking about. Qualifications? Tv legend. I don't know what you're going to say. Qualifications? No. We did it on our show yesterday. Round of applause for Milo. Milo. Anyway, thank you. Thanks again for lunch. I had so much fun and Steve got home safely. More importantly than anything else. Yeah, he's national treasure. Isn't he just? Thank you, mate. Goodbye. See you soon. Got through that. He's done it before. And I haven't noticed, by the way, Chris Evans, of course, being the finest broadcaster of his and many other generations. Liz is in Stoke on Trent. Liz, question or answer? It's a question, James. I can't believe I'm talking to you. I hope you will. Would you be talking to me? We just had Chris Evans on the line. That's a lot more exciting. I am. Very well, Liz, and thank you for your kind words. Thank you. I've been trying to get through with this question so many, so many weeks. What it is, is I was listening to an audio thriller the other day and the coroner said that the flies that invade dead bodies. Oh, flipping heck. Arrive within 25 minutes. Right. It didn't expand, but I suppose it's. So it helps you. It helps you. Time of death helps you identify within 25 minutes. And I'm wondering, where do they hang? I think they call butterflies, which I'm not sure. Where do they hang out in the meantime? Are they in nests underground? In little holes? You know, just where are they? Because that is their only job, I think, is to invade godavas. So is it a certain type of fly? I think, yes. It's the first one that always arrives after death. And I think they think they fly around, don't they, looking for dead bodies? I don't. I don't know. No, because. Because you never. You never see them in insect books or nature books, you know, to identify. Oh, this is a so and so. So if they are flying around, would we recognize them? What? Well, that's my question. Where are they? Where are the cadaver flies? Are they called cadaver flies? I don't know. I think they're called butt flies. I mean, maybe they are flying around, but we wouldn't know. No, we want to know. Yes, please. Right. You're on. Thank you. I mean, was it worth the wait? Oh, absolutely, sweetie. Yes. I have to say that your exuberance when you came on was slightly at odds with the morbidity of your question, Liz, I was not expecting dead bodies when you were so kind to express how excited you were to be on the program. All right, well, I'm excited over everything. Life's an adventure. You can say that again. You can say that. We'll soon knock that out of you if you keep listening. Oh, I've been listening to you for years. Oh, Lord. Well, wonderful. Even more of a compliment then. Thank you. Let's find out. The flies that turn up at a dead body within 25 minutes of expiry, where are they the rest of the time? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Bill's in Bristol. Bill, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on, Bill. It's the dogs telling the time. Oh, yes. It's basically based on smell. Yes. They did a study. So a dog. A guy would go to work every day, eight till five. So he gets back 05:10 and at 05:00 every day, the dog would jump on the sofa and look out the window for five minutes before he got back. Basically, when the guy would leave, he'd sort of leave his scent, and over the 8 hours, it would gradually fade throughout the day, and the dog would detect when it gets to that sort of level. Oh, he's going to be home soon, so I suppose there's a smell. There's some constant smell. Maybe a dog food bowl. He knows. And when it reaches a certain level, then the. And why would then the dog have a different reaction to the clocks going forward from the clocks going back? Probably because the gap between the two feeds. I don't know. They didn't cover that in there, in the. In the program? No, I don't. And I'm just trying to work out whether your answer is comprehensive enough, because it is, isn't it? I mean, how does a dog know what time it is, by the way, that the smell, the signature smell, changes? Whatever it is, it might be the lingering smell of the owner, or it might be the smell. So now it's time I get fed when this happens to my nose. Yeah. The owner's routine is going to change according to that clock. So I suppose then, would it reset that way for the dog qualifications? I saw it on the telly. Saw it on the telly. Do I get extra points for alliteration billing Bristol. No. Good call, though. No, well, I mean, I like an alliteration, as you know, but we've got Zack in Portsmouth on the line and that would just be discriminating against him because we're never going. He's never. I suppose he could ring in from Z Brugger, but no. And we've already had Tim in Tunbridge, as Keith points out, so. No, absolutely not. Bill in Bristol. One day. One day. I've been saying this since I started this job. We'll do a show where you're only allowed on if you. Alliteration for your name and the place where you are, but all you get is a round of applause. Bill, thank you very much. Thank you very much. 1245, very nearly. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1248. Already. Crikey. Eggs, yes. Dust. Yes. Countries. Yes. Although there might be a stewards inquiry coming up on that one. Dogs and time. Yes. Jeans. Yes, I got that one. Right. And flies. No, Bob's in Durham. Question or answer? Hi, James. Question, please. Carry on, Bob. Okay, so it's coming into winter, so recently changed the duvet on the bed. Yeah, we do that as well. We've got a double bubble. Have you got. We got two duvets that knit together, that zip up together, and you take one off in summer and then put it. Zip it back on. No, not that posh. Okay, so what do you mean, posh? It's not. Anyway, carry on. You've got two duvets. I've got kind of one duvet that breaks in half. It's not your posh and me. Go on. Maybe. Go on. Right, so what I want to know is all the duvets are rated in togs? Yes. I want to know what a tog is. Is it a measurement of the thickness of material? Is it heat resistance? Is it just something that's randomly made up by duvet manufacturers? What is it? It's the warmth isn't it? I know if I buy a ten tog bouvet, it's going to be more warm than a five one. Yeah, but I don't know what a tog is. It doesn't even mean weight either. It's different from weight. I can't remember this. Do you know? No, I didn't. I think it's in the board game, actually. I think it is. Well, I'm not going to win the board game with it. I must get. I must get a board game for Milo, actually, to say thank you for that lovely lunch that we had last week. No, it's not coming. You're on. Yeah. What is. It's not an acronym, is it doesn't stand for, like, I don't know, thermal. Thermal optimal gubbins. Thermal. Ah. Thermal optimal gubbins, Bob. It's not what it is. Yeah, definitely. It's definitely that. Bob should have thought of that. Um. I'll get you, I'll get you. I'll get you. All right, you're on. Let's squeeze it in quick. What does tog mean on duvets? Zero. 345-606-0973 Bill's in hollow. Bill. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Bill. The three letter names. Stewards inquiry. Stewards inquiry underway. Stewards inquiry, are all. Are all defined by the IOC. Yeah. And any affiliate body uses them. But the IOC. The IOC might have employed the criteria that milo described when deciding what to do. No, no, not really. The IOC came up with a huge list of names. FIFA is affiliated to the international olympics. Affiliated? Yes. To it. Because there are some amazing ones that you can have a look. They're quite easy to find. I find them because I'm an international cycling official. So we have to use the three letters name in defining where riders and officials come from. Yeah. All right, you're on qualifications, international cycling official. Yeah. And I can also answer your tog one. No, you can't. Whoa, whoa, whoa. I don't come around your place of work and just jump on my grifter and start bombing around a track while they're trying to have a race. So don't you come to mind and start ripping up the rule book, bill. Oh, no, but this is. No, no, no, no. Round of applause. It is in the game as well. That one is as well. I think it's all the more reasons to buy the mystery outpour game. Ah, dear. 1252 is the time I never had a grifter. Always wanted one. I won the premium bonds when I was about twelve. Got 100 quid, abort tin can alley and a drop handled racing bike from Woolworths. Um, never had a grifter though. Nirav is in Windsor. Nirav. Question or answer? Answer, please. Carry on. Okay. I, I mean, you should have been in my industry in chemistry and pigments and dyes because you were so. Right. I was pretty close. Right. Thank you very much. But you're going to go a little bit further. You're going to go a bit further. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So the thing is that indigo, as the name suggests, well, indic indigo comes from indicum in Latin. Yes. Means that origins from India, which was. Yes, for 4000 years ago. And then it was always used in blue ceramic and mosaic and stuff like that until the yarn dying came along. And yarn dying was a change of things that Germany brought to the world early 19th century. And then indigo latches on into the fibers of the yarn, white yarn basically in such a way that it penetrates the upper surface and it goes into the molecular structure of the dun. So therefore it's called the yarn dyeing process. And indigo is the best choice as a dye which has at least wash fastest, so that no matter how many washes you do, it'll fade, but it'll never leave the fiber. And that's why they favored it for denim. And they favored for denim and therefore because of the fading effect that it can give you, if you increase the percentage of the dye inside the dye baths, it can change the percentages. So you can have denims of different, different ratios of the blue basically of indicum or indigo. Beautiful answer. What are your qualifications, Nirav? What do you, what was your field? I have done my specialise in chemistry and I've been with industry of pigments and dyes for 27 years now. Well, blimey, that'll do. Round of applause for Neerav. What's your favorite color? What's your favorite indigo? Is it indigo? I was going to say it's a beautiful colour, isn't it? I've gone a bit aluminum, partridge now, but you are like, what's your favorite color? I really like orange. I'm mad about orange. I don't know why. I can see why Harry Krishna's wear orange. It's a soothing color, orange. I find it soothing, but it's not good for dyeing, is it? Because it's. It fades quite quickly, I imagine. Yes. Wash fastener is high level. Mine is favorite is turquoise blue. And that's what I've been into the industry yeah, I can see why. And the grease, of course, the turquoise blue that you get out there on the rooftops and stuff like that is beautiful. It's a bit of a celebrity special to. Thank you, Nero. It's a bit of a celebrity special today. I'm just going to check with my colleagues on the countries. Do you know that you just hung up on the multiple Olympic gold medal winning Matthew Pinsent? Hello. Do you know that you just hung up on Matthew Pynsent, one of the most successful british Olympians of all time? You did. He's just messaged me to say that bloke is correct. Your team just hung up on me. If you're using a false name like Evans is Pinsent, then you've only got yourself for blame for not having your credentials recognized. But anyway, that was confirming that I think it was Bill was correct about how the, how the countries are given the name. Yeah, but you hung up on Matthew Pinson. You can't be hanging up on Matthew Pinson. He's Matthew Pinsent, Olympic legend. Dan's in Eastbourne. Dan, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, my friend. Carry on, Dan. It's to do with the flies and cadavers, I'm afraid. Everyone's having their lunch now. Let's make it. Let's make it snappy. Okay. Basically, the flies aren't just specifically box flies, they're various insects around in the environment and they're actually attracted by the smell the body went once it's died. Secretes very subtle smells within anywhere between half an hour and 3 hours, depending on temperature conditions, etc, etc. And it's actually the smell of the body that attracts the flies. They're not actually just hiding in the body or hiding around. No, they're knocking around the place doing their thing. They're just one. Then they catch a whiff on the wind and they're in like Flint. They're in like Flint. I'm afraid that is exactly what it is. And obviously hotter countries, quicker, colder countries, not so quickly. But yes. And that's why within 12 hours, the body is more or less consumed. Oh, qualifications I had to head to. Not mine. My wife. She's head of mortuary and post mortem services for an NHS trust. Well, you live and learn, Danny. And she brings her work home with her, does she? Well, I hope not. No, but we do. Unfortunately. I am partying to some of these conversations. I meant that she talks about it when she comes home. But I realized halfway through the sentence how that could be construed. And I thought, oh, in for a penny. In for a penny. I'll stick with it. Anyway, of course, she doesn't bring her home, her work home with her, literally. That would probably be illegal. That would certainly be. She's the worst person to watch any type of crime. I was about to say, if you're watching cold case killers or whatever it's called, she'll be sitting there going, oh, my God, that's ridiculous. They wouldn't do this. They wouldn't do that. I love it. But it's to do. It's to do with smell. Round of applause for Dan. Beautiful. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Leslie is in hailing Island. Leslie, question or answer? Question. James. I'm going to lighten the mood slightly. I mean, to be fair, considering we were talking about corpses, it ended on quite a chirpy and cheerful comedy note, didn't it? I've got you a chirpy one. Go on, then. I've made your producer laugh. You know, when we make. We say we do something wrong or we create a faux pas we utter under our breath. Oh, Gordon Bennett. Yes. I want to know who Gordon Bennett is. Was. Does he ever exist? I made a laugh. I haven't got a clue. I know this. I know this. Oh, good. Tell me. Come up before this must be in the board game as well, which is available at Mysteryad Dot co dot UK and via Amazon. And John Lewis. Sheila Fogarty, do you know this? I don't know this. John Lewis monster. Go on. He was a newspaper proprietor who was a bit like. I mean, imagine Donald Trump before he turned evil. He was a very exuberant sort of rich, and he was well known as a bit of. A. Bit of a lad. And it. He being Gordon Bennett. Gordon Bennett, yeah. Early 20th century, the New York newspaper proprietor. And his name became a byword for being surprised because, you know, it'd be like Barnum type figure or someone who would be coming up with great wizard wheezes. And so you'd go. Instead of going, Gore. Blimey, you'd go, Gordon Bennett. All right, so he did exist, then? Yes, he definitely existed. All right, fair enough, James. Thank you very much. I'll give you a round of applause. Thank you, Leslie. Blimey, that was loud for one person. Thank you, Leslie. Take care. I've got to choose a winner. It's going to be tricky. I think I'm going to choose the lady that asked about the eggs or. No, the lady that answered about the eggs or the lady that asked about the eggs. Oh, no. It's Christmas. Give them both whatever you give them. I don't know if I'm allowed to. You know, there's going to be a run on them now. It's Christmas. And what is Cath or Jane, isn't it? Kath asked. Jane answered. Jane with the bird. I'm giving it to Jane with the bird sanctuary. That's right. Yeah, that's. That's the one. Well done, Jane. You win this week's mystery, our board game. That's it from me for another Scrooge. What do you mean, Scrooge? Well, you could have broken the rules and given them. Well, I've just offered one to Chris Evans as well, for free. So I can't be knocking. I can't be giving back. I'm not a charity. No, he can't. It's a present. Everyone likes a present, don't they? It doesn't matter who you. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player. You'll also find LBC shows to catch up on all of them, as well as the world's biggest podcasts. Download global player for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four on LBC, it's Tom Swarbrick. But now. Well, how do you already know? It's Sheila Fergus. Sheila Frogger.