What do they do with olive pits?

Hour with James O'Brien. Sorry, five minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we have what I think you could accurately describe as a crunching gear change upon us now, as we seek to raise the mood and lighten the tone. Our weekly adventure into the unknown. Before that, though. Sorry, if you follow me on Twitter. You don't have to follow me on Twitter, honestly. All I do is plug my book. You? Nothing like the radio show. Just go to my Twitter account and you can find links to both the website and the Twitter account of Ellie's charity, humanity Torbay. Or you can just, of course, Google Humanitytourbay or the Twitter account isourbay. So do get in touch directly. Although it is always incredibly gratifying to see the switchboard light up like a Christmas tree whenever a case like the one we just discussed is on the program. Obviously, I need all my phone lines for mystery out, but I'm not going to be quite as strict and demanding about that as I normally am, for reasons that I hope are obvious. Six minutes after twelve is the time. And here I've just become one of those famous Nicholas Soames hashtags. Talking of Twitter, are you familiar with this Nicholas Soames, the Conservative MP, grandson, of course, of Winston Churchill, has something of a reputation for torturous hashtags one man banned. So, in response to something I tweeted last night about Donald Trump, Nicholas Soames has just replied, hash. A very bad man. The enemy of the three press. That's catchy. Sir Nicholas certainly is. Mystery Harris here. Your weekly opportunity to get an answer to a question. Okay, so should I bother explaining it, or should we just do a socket and see this week, given that we're all a little bit discombobulated by that conversation with Ellie, let's just dive straight. And if you don't know what's going on, you've tuned in expecting coruscating political analysis. Well, you're in for a bit of a change, all right. But I promise you, it's fun. Daniel, as in Swindon. Daniel, question or answer? Hi, James question. Carry on, mate. Why is green associated, associated with fully charged, or go and red associated with stop or out of battery? You mean pre traffic lights? Yeah. Well, yeah. So traffic lights or you're out of battery. I mean, the battery thing just means you're not moving. So I think it all stems from the traffic lights, doesn't it? Red means stop, green means go. Red on a battery means not going, and green means going. And you want to know why I like that, but I suspect it's to do. I think the question will distill down to why our traffic lights, red, green and amber red historically means danger. So it would make you stop. And you're going to say why? Yeah. You're going to say why, aren't you? It's like being at home. Why, dad? Okay, it's on the board. I just like sometimes I talk for a little bit inanely in the hope of the answer popping into my brain or being dredged up from my memory banks. It's not going to happen. But I wouldn't be surprised if we've knocked at the door of that one before. Apparently they've received. Oh, sorry, guys. Apparently they've received five grand in the last five minutes from you down at that charity. And that's actually, that tweet's a couple of minutes old as well. Thank you, Jeff. Eight minutes after twelve is the time Martin is in Hartford. Martin, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on, mate. My daughter asked me the other day, she's a very bright little cookie. Why is it that they choose that shampoo locks up in your hair and bubbles up, but conditioner doesn't? Well, I mean, because conditioner is not cleaning you. So it doesn't have soap in it on the same scale. Yeah, that's as may be, but they're both agents for hair. What makes one one, not the other? Soap? Soap. Soap. Okay. I don't even. It's got to be, hasn't it? Because it is a good question, but it's quite a simple answer. Because shampoo is for cleaning and conditioner is for conditioning. So shampoo has soap in it which bubbles it up, but the conditioner is. I mean, it leaves stuff in your hair, doesn't it, rather than washing everything, everything out. So if it had soap in it, it wouldn't work. But surely it's the same constituent as soap. It's still got to leave something in your hair. Both of them? No, the shampoo. Theoretically you should rinse it all out and the soap helps with that process by doing something to the water. But the conditioner doesn't have soap in it, which is why it doesn't bubble up. I'll leave it on the board because I'm not going to lie to you, Martin, I'm not really an expert on hair washing. In fact, with every passing year it becomes less and less relevant to my life. I might start buying polish soon rather than chamfered. Thank you. It's all right, mate, I'll put it on the board. Why does shampoo bubble up and condition. It doesn't. Why. Why are traffic lights red and green? The stop and go thing, red and green. Presumably it all comes from traffic lights. Or it might go back further to flags. Flags. But then you know what Daniel would say, don't you? Why? Mark's in Congleton in Cheshire. Mark, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, mate. I'm. I'm fascinated by things like porpoises and dolphins and whales and so on, like most are, but one thing that I've never met been able to really ascertain is if such creatures have blowholes rather than nostrils, for obviously, because they live under water most of the time. They're not instead of nostrils blowholes? Well, I thought they were. No, because they're nostrils. You breathe through your nostrils. You don't breathe through your blowhole. You breathe through the blowhole. I thought you breathe through. Oh, no, I'm thinking of gills. And you're specifically talking about mammals rather than fish, aren't you? So what do they do? They take a massive gulp through because they can go underwater for minutes on end. Oh, man. You're turning me into Alan Partridge, aren't you? Let's look at them giggling. They're all laughing at me already. Here we go. Carry on. Back of the nets. Come on. No, I just thought. Well, as the blowhole shuts, once they've taken that big gulp of air you talk about and they dive. Yeah. Does that mean that they either don't have or don't need a sense of smell? Because that's effectively what their nose has become, isn't it? Yeah. They probably don't have a sense of smell. Well, I don't know. Or they might have taste buds in their mouth, which taste and smell are the same thing, aren't they? Do we use our taste buds for smelling? I'm really knocking it out the part today on the ignorant. This is outrageous. Do you know why it is. I think. I think I'm so flipping moved by that conversation with Ellie that I haven't got my brain. I haven't got my brain back in gear yet and you're taking advantage of my temporarily vulnerable state. Can I say one thing as well? That was a fantastic piece of radio. Oh, well, that's the smallest part of the reason for doing it, but I do appreciate the thought. Thank you, Mark. So do dolphins and whales have a sense of smell? Zero. 345-606-0973 why does I really would like someone who works in a laboratory with shampoos. Because I think Mark's little one deserves a really definitive answer on that question. Bubbles up, conditioner doesn't. And why does red means stop and green means go? Simon is in Ashford. Simon, question or answer? It's a question, my friend. Carry on. Where do all the olive feet go? The olive stones. The stones. The pits. Because I love olives and I always buy pitted ones. But where did they all go? Because they can't replant them, otherwise there'd be millions of olive trees. They gotta shook them away. Surely not. Well, they would have done. Historically, they would have just chucked them away. But oddly enough, I happen to know a little bit about this. There are. There are moves afoot to. I mean, it's happened. They've turning olivestones into fuel, a renewable fuel. How are they doing that? I don't know. I mean, come on, mate. I'm a gob on a stick, not a scientist. But mate, in Greece, a chap in Greece, when I was there last summer, was telling me that there's quite a growth area. But why are you so interested in olive stones, for example, and not plumstones? You haven't rung me up to ask about plums. I don't like plums as much. But you see what I mean. There are lots of things. I mean, for me, fingernails are a great untapped resource. Every time I cut my toenails, I find myself thinking, there's quite a substantial bit of something there. Surely we can do something. If we all collected up our toenails, we could probably heat our house. It's just getting worse, this Alan Partridge thing, isn't it? I don't. Can I finish early? Can we see if Sheila. Is Sheila ready? She could do the last four. I'm just a mess. I'm all over the place. So the answer is, they don't really do anything, except they are now coming up with new wizard wheezes to recycle them. Well, then you. That would be it. That would be all I've got. And I think it gets me a round of applause. Because if someone else rings in and they know more about olive stones and recycling and what have you, then I would be delighted to hear from them. But of course, the good point is you don't plant them very often because the trees are generally in orchards. You know, I think it's against the law to chop down olive trees in Greece. I may have got that. Corey is in Middlesex. Cory, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Okay. I was watching back to the Future the other day. Yes. And there's the early scene, a very cool scene, a scene I remember from my childhood, where the truck. The back of the truck door opens and you see the DeLorean kind of slowly come out the back. Yeah. He then puts the dog in the car because he's going to show my dog in the car and he says, I'm going to test it now. He blasts the dog. I think it's forward in time, like a minute. And then he goes to touch the car. When it comes out the other side, he goes to touch it and he hurts his hand the entire time. You're about to ask me a question about the theory behind time travel. No, no. Well, no, hang on. Let me finish that bit. He touches the car door. There's a lot of people waiting. Cory, you know, I don't want you to get nervous, but that's a big cue behind you. And they're all getting quite impatient. People are jangling their chains, looking over your show. Carry on. Yeah, go on. He gets to touch the door and the entire car is completely frozen. Cold. Yeah. Now I want to know, is there a science behind that? I know we can't. I know it was time travel. No, I know. I know there isn't any science behind time travel. Who put him through? Hands up. Who put him through? Who put him through? Get out. Get out. I want to know if there is a science behind the fact that the temperature was so cold. Right. If we. If we. So your question is, if we travel through time, will it make our cars cold? We're not laughing with you, Corey. But isn't there. I know time travel. Isn't it apparently possible if we could move like, you know, faster than the speed of light? Yeah, whatever. I'm fairly confident, as I mock you, that this isn't going to be one of those occasions where it comes back to haunt me. But. But usually it does. So I shall apologize in advance if it turns out your question isn't as pant wettingly stupid as I currently think it is. Are you going to put it on the board? Yeah, put it on the board. Do time machines get cold while traveling through time? That's your question? Well, it could be specific to back to the future if you want. I just want to know, do you want the most interesting trivia fact about back to the future? Tell me. Biff Tannen is actually based upon a real person. And when I first started noticing this real person moving up the news agenda. I found myself really struggling to work out who he reminded me of. And he is someone who in recent years has become arguably the biggest story in the world. And I kept thinking, who is it that he reminds me of? Who is it that he reminds me of? These utterly callous, utterly greedy, selfish, self centred individual who does it? And then I googled. I remembered who he reminded me of and I googled it. The two names together. The character I'm talking about from back to the future is Biff. Biff Tannen. And the person that reminded me of Biff Tannen, do you know who it was? No. And then I googled it. And it turned out the scriptwriter of back to the future two did actually base that character when he becomes the sort of master of all he surveys. He did actually base that character on the person that I was reminded of by Biff Tannen. The person who kept reminding me of Biff Tannen, the script writer categorically and definitively based the utterly reptilian Biff Tannen on? I'll tell you after this. This is LBC, little Red Riding. Third advice, 21 minutes after twelve is the time. Do you know what? Sometimes you need it, don't you? A little bit of a boost, faith in human nature and all that malarkey. I think we'll catch up with Ellie at the end of the program, if she's free, and see how much money has poured into the coffers of her charity down in Torbay since we spoke to her. Questions still in need of answers. The shampoo and conditional one, the red and green one. Why does red means stuff and green means go? Do dolphins and whales and porpoises and sundry other marine mammals have a sense of smell given that they do their breathing through their blow holds? I think. Where do all the olive stones go? Yeah. This for Corey in Middlesex. Does traveling through time make your time machine cold? Is there to be a little bit more generous to that pant wettingly awful question? Is there a scientific theory behind the fact that the DeLorean sports car returns from the future freezing cold? In Back to the Future one? In back to the future two, the character of Biff Tannen. It's quite specific to this episode as well, actually, because it's the imagined future in which Biff Tannen has become the alternative future in which Biff Tannen has become the king of all he surveys. Really? He's opened a massive casino and he got a clue. Yeah. He's an utterly hateful character with ridiculous hair and Bob Gale the screenwriter of Back to the Future two has categorically confirmed that it was based on. Yep. Donald Trump and actually Wayne in Basildon, who's tweeted to say, everybody knows it's Donald Trump, you lettuce. A large part of the reason why everybody knows is because they heard it here first. Cheryl is in Brentwood. Back to mystery. Our question or answer. Cheryl, carry on. Shampoo foams. Because you're right, it has a detergent. So that's why the shampoo is the foam. It's to dissolve oil and sweat and vegetables. So you need detergent to dissolve the oil and to wash out all the gunk. Yes, you do. And also products that people put on hair. Not necessarily you, but a lot of women and gel and those sorts of things. Furniture polish. I use Mister Sheen now on my head. Do you? No, of course I don't. You put that on the scalp itself, give it a little buff. A few dusters keep finding little bits of yellow in my hair from where the dusters have. Anyway, I'm digressing. Carry on. Conditioner, however, by contrast, conditioner, however, by contrast, if some shampoos are quite high detergent, which means that they strip out too much, so then the conditioner is to put back sort of oils and things so that basically you can get a comb through it. Because if you. So, yeah, that's right. It'd be squeaky without the condition. Your hair can be squeaky and then it'll be tangly for someone with long hair. So then you would need a conditioner to get the comb through it. So you put a little bit of oil back into the hair with the conditioner and you take it out with a shampoo. I go, the shampoo needs the soap, the conditioner doesn't. That's why shampoo is bubbly and conditioner. Yeah. However, better shampoos wouldn't take out all the oil, so then you wouldn't necessarily need a conditioner. Oh. So, like the stuff, the stuff that we got, they gave us to use at boarding school you could strip paint with, was that life, boy. Not dissimilar. It's the toilet roll that traumatizes the memory that you remember. That shiny, crispy toilet roll they used to knock about with what it was like tracing paper. What are your qualifications, Cheryl? I'm a psychologist, but that's pretty good. It's not. It's not Rayleigh otter territory, though. There's a lot of trichologists around, aren't there? Not a naturally like me. Yeah, but you didn't invent shampoo. That's what would have got you a Rayleigh. I didn't invention. Get you a round of applause. I don't want this to feel like a. To get excited about. Thank you, Cheryl. Craig is in. Uh. I don't know quite how to say. Is it Mac? Mary? That's macmahony. James. Yes. Where's that, mate? It's East Lilian in southeast Scotland. Splendid. It's a new one on me. Carry on. Answer, James. Sorry, I should have done. Hang on, I've got done this. All the worst mystery hour ever today. Question or answer, Craig? Answer, James. Carry on, mate. It's the dolphin question. Oh, yes. Good. Do they have a sense of smell? They don't have a sense of smell. So we basically have nasal receptors which pick up aroma molecules. Dolphins living underground. Underground just invented a new species. You're getting them mixed up with wombles caves. Because dolphins are underwater, they don't actually have any receptors, so do not have a sense of smell. So how do they pick up. I mean, with whales, they don't need to because they eat plankton, so krill or whatever. So they're just constantly absorbing food. But how do dolphins find food without a sense of smell? I assume sonar, but I don't know the answer to that. No, of course they do make the noises, it bounces and they find a big shoal of mackerel and then they go in like gangsters. Qualifications, Craig? I'm a whiskey distiller and actually researched the nasal receptors as part of my job a couple years ago so I could teach my team all about blending whiskey and sense of smell. Aw, dad, do you remember that? I came up with a great idea for a new tv show about a month ago and it was during mystery out and it was best jobs in the world and I was just going to go and do all those jobs out. His name has just temporarily escaped. Slipped my mind. But that very brilliant welsh comedian, is it Rodri someone? He'd already done it. Rod Gilbert. That's it. He didn't come to because. Whiskey distiller. It's not the kind of thing you dream of being when you're a child, unless you're quite an odd child, but when you're an adult, it's the kind of thing you dream of being if you ever grow up. Did you. Did you kind of fall into it? I started out in whiskey tourism on my 18th birthday and sort of. Yeah, just fell into. I actually did all my distilling in Tasmania. So, seriously, they've got a good industry there, have they? Hundreds or so, really small distilleries, but don't really make enough to export. But the quality is fantastic. Single malts in tasmanian single malt. Yeah, we made single malt. I'm actually going to be heading down there this month to hopefully start another distillery. Right. This is so exciting. Yeah, it's pretty cool. And presumably you're bored rigid of everyone responding to news of what you do for a living by doing what I'm doing now. Oh, no, not at all. It's best job in the world and let's face it, it gives us something else to talk about apart from what's happening. And do you, when you're sampling, do you spit it out? I think you kind of take a small imbibe just to make sure you've got the final aftertaste and the proper effect of the booze, but make sure you're not driving, you know. No, of course. Absolutely. Sound advice from Craig. Round of applause. That's really cool because I thought when you said whiskey distiller, I thought I was going to have to do that. I don't know how long Craig's been listening that thing where I say, no, I don't just mean, what qualifications have you got generally in life, someone rings in to answer a question about crisp flavors. I say, what are your qualifications? And they say, well, I've got a PhD in marine biology. No, no, no. What are your qualifications? That mean you know a lot about. Oh, I had a holiday job in a crisp factory, but that was his qualification. He's a whiskey distiller, so he's studied Mattis olfactory. Robert is in Winchester. Question or answer, Robert. It's a question. Carry on. Hello. So my question is, what is the origin of the phrase first dibs? Oh, I like that. I like that. First, I was trying to work it out. Dibs is such an unusual word, you know. Could it be short nibs? And that's the only thing I could. Could think. But, um. Dibs. Not nibs. Not nibs. No. First dibs. Yeah. Dibs. Dibs, yeah, you're on. What's the origin of first dibs? These things are often military or something, or naval or something like that. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need questions that are in need of answers. Just before we head towards the headline, we've done the shampoo. Why does green mean go and red means stop? You can add to the olive stones question if you so desire. But what happens to all the olive stones. The back to the future question is possibly a little silly, but if you think you can answer it, I'd be very, very grateful. Is there a scientific basis to the fact that the time machine in back to the future comes back from the future? Ice cold. Freezing. Freezing cold. And what's the origin of the phrase first dibs? 0345. You are listening to mystery hour with me, James O'Brien on LBC. And Lisa Aziz is here now with your headlines. 13 people have died, including a sheriff today. 1235 is the time. Zach has responded to one of the mystery act questions by asking, how come the Tardis doesn't start freezing up? I think it's a stupid question. It's a question about a time machine in science, but there is no such thing as time travel, so can there actually be any science? Corey wants to know why the DeLorean in back to the future comes back from the future. Freezing cold. Okay, if you've got any questions, you can get on the board. Zero. 345-606-0973 and if you can answer the questions about the origins of the phrase first dibs. The uses of olive stones that you are aware of and the reasons behind red being associated with stop or, you know, uncharged and green being associated with go or charged in the context of electronic devices. Lawrence is Inisha. Hello, Lawrence. Question. Hello. Hello. How are you? I'm all the better for hearing your dulcet tones. And it was good to read about you in the eye today. You know how much I hate self reference. James, we've just come back from the states. Yes. Five hour 40 minutes flight. And we changed our timed on the watches. Five, 5 hours. Yes. Our friends are coming back on the Queen Mary two. That's going to take five days. Gosh. When do they change their clock? Is it 1 hour a day or is it 5 hours straight away? Or what's the nautical time on which day? I don't know. Is it when they leave New York or when they arrive at Southampton? I don't know, but I often do know, Lawrence, that's this. You know, it's. I sometimes have a crack at these things, so. So you changed your clock from american? Yeah, we changed our. But when did you do it straight? When we got on. Well, there you go. So it's up to you when you do it, isn't it? Yes, but on the boat. Oh, what will the official time on the boat be? What time is lunchtime? What's boat time? Boat time. Oh, yeah. So it's not just 1 hour at 01:00 on the day. Well, Keith keeps saying in my ear, 1 hour at 01:00 but that's not answering your question, is it, Lawrence? I don't think so, Keith. He's. No, he's adamant that that is the answer to your question. Well, I don't get it and you don't get it, so we're gonna have to leave it on the board until someone explains it better, aren't we, Lawrence? Did you have a nice trip? Was it. Was it pleasure? Yes, very, very much so. Splendid. Well, I'm glad you're back safe and sound. 1237 is the time. Craig is in Epsom. Craig, question or answer? Hi, James. I have an answer. Hopefully carry on to Corey's question about back to the future. Shut the front door. Go on, then. Is there any scientific basis to the fact that the DeLorean comes back from the future freezing cold? I believe there is. Let me give you a bit of a premise here. I finally got round to watching the commentary of it last year. I've seen the trilogy multiple times, so I watched the commentary, and they're talking about throughout the trilogy, they stopped doing the ice throughout the three films. It was too expensive with the liquid nitrogen. It became far too much of a hassle. So they eventually stopped doing it all together. But they didn't actually mention why it was a thing in the first place. So I did look that up last year, and I found an article about mid last year talking about the fourth dimension and time and a doughnut shaped sort of time wormhole, if you like. And the idea is that as time is a fourth dimension and you've got one side and another side, they eventually collapse in on each other where there is nothing, no particles, no energy. And therefore, it's believed the temperature there is absolute zero and thus freezing cold. And if you watch the film after he's asked, is it hot? He says, no, it's cold air. Cold as in, it's the temperature of the air. And that's. That's as far as I've gotten with it. I'm not going to lie to you, Craig. I nodded off halfway through that. But it sounds pretty strong. It sounds pretty definitive to me. And frankly, I'm not sure I can bear a stewards inquiry or anything like that. But. But briefly, they did think that they had signs. Yes. Round of applause for qualifications. Massive geek. Massive nerds. Good man. You're not a nerd at all. You have an inquiring mind if we had a few more of those in this world, we wouldn't be facing such chaotic times. 1240 is the time. Now Mohammed is in Braintree. Mohammed, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Have you been on the London Underground at all? What do you think? I've lived in London. I've lived in London for 30 years. 28 years. Go on. Well, on the London Underground, there's a pit under the train. Yeah? It's like a hole under the rails. Yeah? When it goes up over ground towards Heathrow, it. There's no pit, it's just level. Well, under the rails as a whole. Yeah. I don't. How long did you say you've been. All right, mate. Just wind your neck in. Seriously. I'm just thinking out loud. You should never be. Never interrupt people when they're making fools of themselves. It's not fair on the audience. Yeah. Okay. And then you get out and there isn't one. No, no. You know the. You know when you're standing the station, there's a pit under the rails, isn't there? I'm not seeing it. I've got to be honest with you. I know. I know there must be because everyone's nodding their heads, but I just keep thinking of the little mice and the rails look like they're suspended. I've just got a mental block. It's just an odd hour. I'm still reeling from that phone call at the top of the last hour. The boy, was it? 30? 28, mate. Only 28. Well, 27. 27, give or take. Because I had that year off in Manchester overground towards Heathrow and that. Yeah. I get on that train every single day. I get on the westbound Piccadilly. I know I should. There's no pit. It's just like the. It looks like a national rail or something. It's just. So if you're on the Piccadilly line or the district line and you come out the underground bit and go into the overground bit, there's no. There's nothing underneath the rails. Yeah. There's no hole. And you want to know holes and you want to know why. I know, mate. You've been very generous, man. I'll just hang on. Here is a photograph of a London underground station. And what are we actually talking about here? Oh, yeah, well, blow me down with a feather. You've never seen it. Well, I know now. I've looking at it, I've never seen anything different. It's completely normal and obvious. But I'd never really registered it in my brain as being a pit. Pit. Put me on a deep thinker. Yeah. I'm too busy thinking deeply to be obsessing about way tracks, you prune. That's the thing. I was thinking about the existential nature of the ontology or something like that. You know what I'm talking about now. I do now know what you're talking about, yes. And it's flat when you come out towards Piccadilly line. Yeah, well. Right, well, okay, well, we'll find out for you. Show me. Yeah. What's. What's the pit for? On the. On the underground bits? Yeah. Why isn't it there when it goes overground? That probably the answer, the second bit will be contained within the answer to the first bit. But we'll. We will find out for you. Yeah, all right. It's like pulling teeth. Mohammed, I can only apologize to you. That is not the experience I want my. My callers to have when they ring into this program. If we did do any kind of feedback or anything like that, I would expect a two star review from you at the very best. Well, I think that's the minimum you can give on Amazon, is it? No, you can give one. Seriously. Check out my book. It's 1243. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Jade is in Epsom. Jade, question or answer? Hello, James. Question. Why did this get put through? We've answered this about 10 million times. Have you? That's all right. Ask away. This is awkward. No, it's not. It's not. I'll deal with it. I'll pretend it's new. Okay, carry on. Watch this. All right. You're gonna die. Jade. Jade. Yeah, I'm gonna do. Hang on, I'm gonna do some acting. Okay, ready? Question or answer, Jade? Question. Go on. If road safety is so important, why is there not seatbelts on buses? Always wondered that. Seatbelts on. But you're right there. Why not? Never. So you never get a seatbelt on a bus? Never. No. Or trains? No. Trains? No. You never get seatbelts on trains or buses. Exactly. Well, we need to find out why. Why don't you ever get seatbelts on buses? Zero. 345-606-0973 that's a great question, Jade. I can't wait to find out the answer. Great to speak to you as well. It's just gone 1244. Do you know, I'm not sure I can actually remember the answer. I think it is just she gone there, so I'm not going to embarrass myself in front of her. I think it's just because they don't have to. It's that simple. Adam is in Nottingham. Adam, question or answer? Answer, James. Hopefully it's about what. Why is it red? And why is green going red? Stop. Sorry, hang on a minute. Put your teeth in and try again, will you? Okay, yeah, I will do. Why is stop red? And why is go green green? Go green, go red, stop white? Yeah. I think that comes down to essentially the Vienna convention and treaties, back when we had the international standardization, and I think it was then, it was. Daniel would say, I don't know if you heard the original question, but he would now say, why? Why? Because I believe you had another countries where essentially green was blue. And if I'm not mistaken, it could be someone like Japan. I think a green light was a blue light. Or if you actually call it this, it's a terrible phone line, it's driving me mad, but I don't think you've answered. I'm going to give you a round of applause just to get that distortion out of my brain. That's better. You need Eddie Mayer's voice at a time like this, like a sort of calming balm poured over the ears of our radios. But I don't think that's another. I think if Daniel was here, he'd want to know why Green was chosen in the first place, not why there has subsequently been an international agreement to abide by green being go and red being stopped, but why the convention began in the first place. Pre Vienna convention, I think. But you got your round of applause. It's 1245 coming up at one on El B seven. The origins of red meaning stop and green meaning go. The destination of discarded olive stones. What happens to them? The pit beneath the rails on the London underground that disappears when the underground goes overground, that is so blooming obvious now. Oh, blimey. Nevermind. Someone can get a round of applause with relative ease. The origins of the phrase first dibs and how do they put the clocks back or forward? How do they adjust the time on a long. So, from America, to, say, from new York to Southampton takes five days. The time at Southampton is very different from the time in New York. How do they adjust it? Do they do it all in one go? How does it work? We need to know. Let's crack on. Jim is in Bromley. Jim, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Jim. It's the pit on the London underground under the rails. So the reason for the actual pit being there is that should anyone fall onto the tracks or find themselves onto the tracks in a station, and they haven't got time to get back up onto the platform. They've got somewhere to shelter should a train be hurtling towards them. So obvious, isn't it, when you think about it? Yeah. And if you notice at the. Because when you go on the overground, you could just roll into the. Into the meadow. Exactly. You've got more space to sort of run out the way or to get out of the way. And if you. If you notice when the. When the train leaves the station on an underground, the pit disappears. It doesn't carry on through the tunnels, obviously, because no one would be in the tunnels. It's just purely on the actual stations themselves, on the platforms themselves. It's a fairly definitive answer. What are your qualifications? I'm a London firefighter and I've attended many calls on London underground premises. That'll do nicely. Thank you very much. Good man. 1251 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Thomas is in Bath. Thomas, question or answer? Answer. Hi, James. First time on this show. You're very welcome. Finally you've made it. No idea how relieved I am. I was beginning to wonder if it was ever going to happen. Question or answer? So it's an answer about the changing time on the ship, on a vessel. So generally, if it's five days and 5 hours, you will do it every day, 1 hour. At what time do they do it? They do it overnight, like you normally change the time. So they do it 01:00 in the morning? Yes. Keith says they do it at lunchtime. Keith says they do it at 01:00 I understand Keith's answer now. He was right. You're right. You're going to get the round of applause. He's not allowed one. Yeah. One more thing. When you've got more time, for example, if you go from Florida down to Gibraltar, for example, you will have much more time to do it. So you will have like about two weeks now, then it's discrepancy of the captain to do it which day he will choose it. But usually you will not go more than 1 hour simply because that messed up the body clock. So you. So you. So actually you get to adjust your body clock without really noticing, so that when you arrive back in Southampton, you're not going to get any jet lag or whatever the marine equivalent would be. Actually, you will get. Because after we. I did this quite a few times, we were going five days, 5 hours or six days, 5 hours. Yes. And you can feel the strain on your body, really? Yes. But it's much, much easier to do it one day, one night, incrementally, than all in one big go. What are your qualifications? I think we know. I used to work for the norwegian company and I was a sailor for three years. Fred Olsen. No, it was green rivers. Okay, round of applause for Thomas. Thank you very much. No, great work. Lovely answer. Marks in Aberdeen. Mark. Question or answer? It's an answer. Yes, the. What happens to the olive stones? Yes, well, we get made into what we call pips. Pips. And they're used as fuel in solid fuel heaters, boilers and stuff for heating houses in Spain over the winter. There you go. And I think you've just given us your qualifications as well, haven't you? What are your qualifications, Mark? Property in the north of Spain. So that's a great round of applause. And it's quite widespread. It's not experimental. Then it's quite an established thing. No, I'm actually. The little village I live is in an olive growing area and it's cooperative, so you help out with the olives and you get free pips, pre bags delivered once a week to your house over the winter. Oh, that's a lovely answer. It's a lovely little vignette as well. Thank you. Mark got his round of applause. 1254 is the time. Who's next? It's Toby who's in Maidstone? Toby, question or answer? I've got an answer. Go on. Well, this is quite. It's just incredibly serendipitous. Yesterday I was looking at. I was writing a script and I had to turn it from English English to American English, and a phrase that I'd written that I didn't know was relevant in English was the word dibs. Oh, yeah. So I had to look it up. I looked it up yesterday. So it is. I do have knowledge. Yes. But whether it's right or not, apparently it's from dibstone, which is, you know, knucklebones. You know that game you play five, so you toss things up and caps mine back in hand? Yes. That was in America, I think is called knocko bones or dibstones. Right. And first dibs is first person to go on that. So apparently it is us. Really? Yeah. Well, you looked it up and I believe you. And you're right, it is. Also, you've used one of my favorite words that with reference to serendipity. But it's not a very cool answer, is it? It's. I mean. I mean, I don't believe it, but, you know, I have. That is what? You have black and white on the Internet? No, that's fine. They give a round of applause for Toby. Thanks very much. Did you hear my acting earlier with. With Jade? When Jade rang in to ask about seatbelts on buses. Did you hear me? Acting is, I mean, very impressive. It's so hard to tell when it is acting or not. That's the secret, isn't it? So, you know, if the script sells and you have any, uh, influence over casting, don't. Don't you forget that acting. I mean, you're always top of this. I should hope so too. Amanda Abington's been in touch with admiration as well as passing my details on to her agent. Chloe is in Telford in Shropshire. Chloe, question or answer? Hello. I've got an answer for you. Carry on, Chloe. It's about the colours of the traffic light. Yes. It comes down to sort of basic colors in nature. The color red is the least dominant color in nature and is used, symbolize danger and therefore alerts us to things very quickly. Ah, that makes sense. And green being the most common color with trees and stuff that were qualifications. A level psychologist, really. And that came up. That is. That is the psychological association. Okay, I like that answer. Yeah. Well played, Chloe. We've done pretty much all of it. We never did get seatbelts on buses, though, despite me mocking the fatuousness of the question, because I'm going to break the habit of a lifetime, actually, and interrupt mystery hour with non mystery hour type business. You may remember about an hour ago, we were talking to Elie war, the CEO of that charity in Torbay in Devon that took a call from a nine year old girl offering to clean floors in return for money because they were skinned after her father was put on universal credit, having been made redundant. And I said that the responses had restored some of my faith in human nature, which is under threat at the moment. And I think it might restore some of yours as well, because Ellie is back on the line now. Ellie, and I gather our listeners have given out the details of your charity. I gather our listeners have galloped to your aid. They have. And I might cry, so please bear with me if I do. I don't know what to say. It means that we can keep going for. I think it's nearly two years. I'm sorry. I'm so overcome. I can't thank you all enough. All my volunteers, humanity today, they're all crying and we can't thank you all enough. We work really hard and it's a pleasure helping people. It really is. Sometimes we go home and we cry a lot. In fact, we cry a lot almost every night. I can't thank you. I'm overcome. I really am. You're silly sausage. We're the ones that should be thankful. We should be thanking you. Do we know, do we know roughly how much has come in or. I think somebody said it's up to 17,000 pounds just since we last spoke. Yeah. And we were on like 1000 or something and somebody donated 5000 pounds and I can't thank them enough because you don't have to. Oh, please. You know, and if anybody wants to come and see us and we're open six days a week and we open on a Saturday as well, please come and see us. And thank you. Thank you, James. Not me. I'm just, I'm just allowed hailing. It's the people listening that have shouted through. Can you do me a favor, Ellie, because you mentioned that your husband's not very well. Will you make sure you find some time to look after yourself as well? I promise that's the condition of accepting these donations from my listeners. I promise. I promise I will. Thank you. You take care of yourself. And thank you most of all. Of course. And this is addressed to everybody listening. Even if you are currently un persuaded by the need for a little bit more kindness and compassion in the world. That's what it can do. Just that right there. Today, in an hour. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Ferguson. Yeah. And before you go, you are the loud hailer. We are a loud hailer of sorts. But all of us need to find ways that we can find places like that. Even if we're just giving a tenor, if we're well off enough to give a grand, whatever like that guy did. Just fantastic moment to know that that difference has been made, isn't it? Yes, it is. That's exactly it. The reality of it. Rather than just the signing of a signature and wondering where it goes. Yeah, absolutely. That's great.