Do birds get better at building nests?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Good grief. Is it that time already? Two minutes after twelve on a Thursday can mean only one thing. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you're not familiar with this part of the week, then it will not sound as exciting as it actually is to listen to, because all I can say to you is this. Some people ring in with questions and other people ring in with answers. And somewhere between those two positions, alchemy occurs and pure gold is spun. If you don't trust me, all you can do is stay tuned. My favourite contribution of the week, my favorite contributor of the week, will be the lucky recipient of a brand spanking new mystery hour board game, an invention of incredible excitement that delivers joy, joy unconfined, into households up and down the country. If you're not lucky enough to win, don't worry, you can buy one yourself. Yeah. Full details at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK on how to get hold of your own mystery hour board game and full terms and conditions for what is actually a competition. Even though the management's decision is final. And I am the management, I am the law that is at LBC dot co dot UK. Four minutes after twelve is the time Gus is in Colchester to kick things off. Gus, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on, Gus. So I wanted to know, do birds get any better at building their nests over time, like generationally? That's an interesting question. Oh, thanks. No, I like it because you see some, don't you, that look a bit rubbish. Well, it's not. I'm not so much. I don't know about the nests, like the finished product, but I've noticed that the birds hop around our mess of a garden and they seem to like, you know, choose certain bits of twig and grass and discard others. And I wondered, you know, if that's a sort of generational thing. Does that mean that by extension they get, you know, they get better? And there are. I mean, some species are better than others, but, I mean, massive birds are not going to build a really neat, tight nest, are they? I don't know. I don't want to get into body shaming, really. No, that's a fair point. We should be careful in this day and age. I'm a big fan of swans. Me too. Bit partridge again and not last. Yeah. Last season there was a little bit by the canal in Brentford, where they built a nest near some of the houseboats, but in one of the closed off bits, so there had been hardly any humans went past, but you could just lean over a relatively small wall and you were about four foot above it. So you got this astonishing, like having one of those cameras off the telly in the actual. You got this astonishing perspective on the nest and the signets and you followed it. They lost one signet. I was very, very sad. And then things all went a little bit weird. I think he cleared off, left her on her own with two signs. He went a bit mad and started hanging out on the other bit of the. But that's a different story. And. And that was a mess. It was, yeah, well, it was a mess, Gus, that nest, an absolute mess. But I presume that's because swans don't need a massive nest. And it was flat, it was on the ground. They just need a sort of area in which to lie down. I love that. Did birds get better at building nests as they get older? You'd expect them to. Six minutes after twelve is the time. Heather is in Broxburn in Scotland. Heather, question or answer a question, please carry on. Is there any animal that can see microscopic things? It's all gone a bit David Attenborough this week, hasn't it? I've got birds nests. And now, by microscopic, what do you mean? Like amoebas, so, like bacteria and things that the human eye can't see, because I know that animals can see, like, in the uv perspective, and they can see faster than humans. What can they see smaller than humans? What sort of animal might fit into that category? What do you think? Do you have anything in mind? Well, like, I know that hawks can see much further than, like, human eyes can see. Yeah, no, I know that. Smaller than we can see, but bacteria, I mean, stuff that a human would need a microscope to see. Is there any animal that can see it with their naked eye? Yeah, seems unlikely, Heather, maybe just curious. No, I am now as well. Is there any organism that can see? Well, what about other microscopic or. Well, they don't have eyes, do they? No, no, don't think so. Don't get any cellular life. Would have. I. Is there any organism that can see with its naked eye? Well, it wouldn't just be other organisms, it would be anything so small that a human would need a microscope with which to see it. We shall find out, Julie, I'm not sure it's helpful for you to point out that birds of prey can see little mice. A, we knew that, and b, it's got nothing to do with microscopes. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Louisa is in Birmingham. Louisa, question or answer? I have a question. Please carry on. So, on my travels, I've realized that Chinatowns and gay villagers, or people who are from East Asia and queer communities, often settle next to each other in cities. And I'm curious why those two groups are always next to each other. Can I ask for your evidence of this? Soho in London, it's the same in Birmingham and in Manchester. And I read that it's the same in Toronto as well. Um. Is it the same in Birmingham? Yeah, yeah. The Chinatown and gay village all in one road. Didn't know there was a gay village in Birmingham. I mean, you're right about Manchester. I can picture it now. You're right. You're right about London, obviously. I mean. Yeah, I'm in Leicester Square at the minute, so that's. That's pretty clear. I didn't know Birmingham even had a gay village. It does. It's very good. Whereabouts is it? Um. Hurst street. Near the China. Yeah. Gosh, you're right. Yes. Yeah. There you are. There must be a reason. Probably areas that were quite run down and cheap that could be colonized more easily than it's bits of town that were already very well established and expensive, wouldn't it? Yeah, probably. Those two groups seem to be partners. No, I like it a lot. That's a lovely question. I shall put it on the board. Why do China towns and gay villages so often exist or spring up next door to each other in big cities, western cities, chiefly. Nine minutes after twelve is the time. Thank you, Louisa. Kevin is in Colchester. Kevin, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. That's a terrible phone line. It's not your fault. It's not your fault. We'll try and get you back up. But just because Chinatown and the gay village in New York aren't next to each other doesn't undermine the fundamental premise of Louisa's question. It does happen more often than not. So I'm going to leave the question on the board. We're going to try and improve Kevin's phone line, and we're going to go to Ravi, who's in woking, and ask. Question or answer, Ravi. Question, please carry on. Why do we celebrate birthdays and not birth anniversaries? So you would say happy 10th birthday or happy 30th birthday. But we never. We don't actually have 30 birthdays, but we always celebrate the anniversary of a birth. So when you're one, you're two. No. Yeah. Yes. So your birthday is zero. Your first birthday is zero. Well, you celebrate the number of years you've been alive, don't you? No. So in terms of, you celebrate the birthday, so you say happy 10th birthday, but actually it should be happy 10th birth anniversary. Yeah. Well, I mean, I think we've touched this before, and I was just as confused then as I am now. By. And I'll put this politely, Ravi, by why you care? It was my girlfriend's birthday the other day, and we were listening to a repeat of last week's mystery hour when we were driving to the restaurant, showing her a good time there. Ravi, it's a lovely pastime. I like it a lot. I love that. Play a small part in your romance. I think there are cultures where you do it differently. I think there are cultures where this is the first anniversary of my birthday. But the question as to why we do it like we do it, I don't know if it's answerable. I'll find out for you. I shall try to find out for you. Thanks. No, thank you. I just. I'm just worried people might not quite understand the question. You only have one birthday. Ah. That's it. So why do we call it birthday when it's not your birthday? You only have one birthday. It's your birth anniversary, so it should have a different name. Why is it called a birthday when it's actually the anniversary of your birthday? There you go. There's the question that's slightly different from what was asked last time. I think Mark's in Colchester. Mark. Question or answer? Question? James. Right. I snore so loud, my wife hears it over the tv. She's watching downstairs. Good grief. How am I. Yeah, I know. It is terrible. How am I able to sleep while I'm making such a noise? Do you ever wake yourself up? Not knowingly, no. Do you ever. Do you ever get woken up and she says you're snoring, and you do actually recognize that you were snoring? You sort of are conscious of the snoring in that last few nanoseconds before you achieve consciousness? Maybe if I fall asleep on the seti. I can't say I've ever noticed it in bed at night. No. Why don't you wake yourself up? Because if someone else came in and made the same level of noise next to you, it would probably wake you up. Yeah, but it doesn't wake up. I don't wake up. Why don't you wake yourself up with your own snoring? I like that question. I'm amazed we've never had it before, which means we almost certainly have, but I've forgotten, which is a good enough reason to consider. Thank you. I mean, have you tried. I mean, sorry, this is a bit boring for you, but have you tried anything to improve the situation? It can't be much fun for your wife. Well, no, I mean, she punches me, she pushes me, she can't wake me up. Yeah, but when you're snoring. Yeah, you know, when I'm snoring. Have you looked into sleep apnea? No, I haven't looked. Yeah, maybe because it can be quite dangerous. I mean, if it's really, really loud, it's worth having a look at that. Seriously. Someone told me that when. When a similar topic popped up on the program. Not, not, not for me, but for another caller. 1213. Thank you, Mark. So why doesn't Mark snoring wake him up? When? If you went into his bedroom at night and made a similar level of noise, you would almost certainly wake him up. Why do we call birthdays birthdays when they're not actually birthdays? You only have one birthday, the day on which your birth occurs. Why are chinatowns and gay villages often, often, not always next door to each other? Are there any organisms that can perceive microscopic organisms with the naked eye? And do birds get better at building nests as they get older? Coles in Prescott. Carl, question or answer? Hi, James. Love your show. How you doing, mate? Very well. What have you got? Right, this is a bit of a mad one, so please forgive me. Go on. You know, constantly there's data being transmitted either from your mobile phone to a satellite or from a satellite to your gps in your car. Yeah. Is there currently a system that sees it visually? What do you mean? Like, we can't see infrared, but is there any sort of way of seeing what all this data floating around looks like in a visual representation? So if the police are tracking someone, they can use the phone's location because it sends out a signal and you triangulate it to. So you mean the signal, the signal that is pinging from the phone to the tower. Is that in any way visible? Yes. Is he currently a system anywhere that sees what this looks like? I'm fascinated by. I am. The amount of debris that flies around the earth and there's companies that track it so they know it's safe, where to fly, et cetera. And when you see the visual computer models of what it looks like, you think, that's incredible. Is there any sort of computer visualizing model that can see. So it would be a satellite in these software. So the hardware would be a satellite. And is there any software that allows you to see the ping or the data or whatever, the data transfer up and down from either from a phone to a master, a gps in your car or your watch? Because it must be so much stuff. Well, it's constant. It'd be walking through fog, wouldn't we, if we could see exactly that. We can't see. But is there a way of seeing it? Why do you want to know? I'm just interested. Yeah, I am. Now, there you go. No, seriously, and I understand the question. I was a bit worried when I saw it on the screen that I wasn't going to be able to understand what you were talking about. About, but it's a fairly straightforward one. So your data, the phone is the best example. Anything that uses GPS, you know, anything that allows you to work out where you are simply by looking at a screen. So, you know Google Maps, how does it know where you are? Because your phone is sending, your device is sending and receiving information. Is that information in any way discernible if you've got like the right lenses or the right software or the right technology? I doubt it. But you never know. It's worth asking. It's 1215 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 1219. It is mystery o. It is unfolding. I did a quick run through the questions that are already on the board, didn't I, a minute ago, so I won't do another one. I shall save that for, for a little later. Let's go to Australia. Sam's in Mandora. Sam, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I'm not sure if anybody's going to have the answer for this one, but what do newborn babies dream of? Milk, probably. Yeah. It's now seven month old we've got. But when she was newborn, you could certainly see that she looked like, you know how when you see a dog dreaming, we always say, like they're chasing rabbit? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was a similar sort of thing, experiences or language or things. So they've got enough experiences, really. They just dream about what, what they have got experience of, I suppose, but I don't know. And like you say, who would know? Yeah, that can be the question. Maybe someone with like a phenomenal. You do occasionally meet people with phenomenal memories who can, like, literally remember stuff that happened in very, very early childhood. They might, they might know, but it seems unlikely. I'll put it on the board. I'll put it on the board. Okay. What do newborn babies dream of? And is there any way ever, of knowing? Thank you, mate. There's an interesting mixture of questions this week. I like it. But of course I may go off it if we don't start getting interesting answers. Neil's in Dublin. Neil, question or answer? It's an answer. Please carry on. So it's to do with animals seeing microscopic creatures? Yes. So the simple answer is, no, they can't. You might have to provide a little bit of an explanation. I think your answer tallies with my instincts. But how would we prove it? So we see by light reflecting? Of course we do. And when light reflects back, we can see features, but the lowest wavelength of light we can see back, which is called the diffraction limit, is around about 200 nm. So anything in that scale or that size is too small to reflect light back to our eyes. So you wouldn't be able to see it anyway? No, nothing would. No eye would be able to see it because they wouldn't be able to see the light because the light wouldn't be reflecting back off the object or the organism or the little microscopic thing of me. Well, the light would to a certain extent, but so little of it would be reflecting back. You couldn't resolve it, you wouldn't see it. So even in the best optical microscopes with glass lenses, you can probably see something a thousand times bigger. Okay. But even that's. That's big cells, that's not microscopic organisms like bacteria and viruses. Qualifications? I am an electron microscopist, so I use an electron microscope to look at bacteria and viruses. Microscopist microscope. Electron microscopist. I said microscopist microscope with an Ist. Electron microscopist. What do you do all day? Listen to LBC and cut up tiny little sections of plastic embedded tissue, is it? And viruses and exosomes. Exosomes are huge at the minute. Wow. So how amazing. Well, how many, approximately how many electron microscopists do you think there are working in the UK at the moment? Oh, well, all universities would have one, so there's quite a lot of us. Oh, that's a shame. I wanted to give you a ray Liotta, Neil. You should have just said me. Oh, no, no, I don't. And also, why did I say the UK? You're not even in the UK. You're in either. No, sorry, but I can't give you. I can't give you a thing of me. But I can give you this. Brilliant. Thank you. Thank you, Neil. Georgina's in Wimbledon. Georgina. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. So, I suffer from watery eyes. So I made an appointment at the optician's and she said, I suffer from a dry eye. Yes. How is that if I've got watery eyes? How do you mean? Well, my eyes keep watering. Yes, all the time. So when I went for my consultation, she said, you suffer from dry eyes. Yeah, but that's why your eyes water all the time. Why? Well, no, you only have one question. So you've got dry eyes, which is why they water water, dry, dry water. But I'm wiping the tears away because you've got the dry eyes. The watery eyes is a response to the dry. I'm making this up as I go along, Georgina, but I think I'm onto something. The watery eyes, dry, the water is a response to the dry eyes that you suffer from. It's quite confusing then, isn't it? Well, yes, it is a little bit confusing, but what do you want me to do? So what have you got? So if you've got dry eyes, why are your eyes so watery? Yeah, well, I think you've got it. It's a chicken and egg situation, this, Georgina, isn't it? What came first, the water or the dryness? True. So you've got the gynus, therefore your eyes are watering a lot. But we need an ophthalmology. Why didn't you ask them? I just didn't think at the time, no. All right, you're on dry eyes, that's what I'd ask you. Dry eyes plus water. Why? How can you have dry eyes when you've got watery eyes? That's the question. Really? That's the question? Yeah. Lovely stuff. Thank you, Georgina. Thanks. No, thank you. 24 minutes after twelve. Why can you have dry eyes and watery eyes at the same time? Denise is in Hayward's heath. Denise, question or answer? Carry on. So the coronation weekend, we went down to seven to see my parents and we were driving back to Hayward, teeth coming along, the a three. A three. And my son said, oh, look, Mama, we're 150 miles from London. But whereabouts in London? At what point would be 150 miles? Would it be like the shard or Buckingham? Charing cross, is it? Yeah, Charing Cross. No. It is, because, well, you're only allowed one question. It is. It's Charing cross, isn't it? There's the cross outside Charing cross station. It's Charing cross. That's that's where they measure it all from. So if I was going back and it was 150 miles to Exeter, on what point in Exeter? No, no, no. You're only allowed one question. You're only allowed one question. It is Charing Cross. We've had this before. In fact, I think I knew this before I even invented mystery out, because I wanted to know. I mean, the crosses was something to do with a dead queen and a pilgrimage that her husband undertook. Maybe Eleanor of Aquita, I'm making that up. But. So that. But the centre of London, from which you measure all the other distances, when you're driving from Birmingham and it says London is 200 miles away, then it is Charing Cross, you can tell. I mean, you can actually tell, because if I'm coming home from East Anglia London, or if I'm coming home from Kidderminster, because they're coming into London from completely different angles, then getting home is completely different, if you see what I mean. Because of the distance that I live from Charing Cross coming into different contexts. But that's the answer. Okie dokey. No, I'm taking a round of applause for that. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Denise. Excellent question. Let's get Kevin and Colchester on. Where were we? Kevin. Hello, James. Hello. My question is, most people with Tourette's, why when they tick, they swear, like naughty words or say bad words. Why don't they? That's a good question. They do. Sometimes they do. Sometimes they can say completely innocuous words. But, you know, this week's guest on full disclosure has Tourette. She's one of the most amazing young people that I've ever met and I think hear her in the interview. She doesn't do. I don't think she did swear words while we were there. But the question. I don't know. I don't know and I don't think it would be appropriate to speculate. Do you? No idea. It's just a few of the documentaries I've seen of the people that sort of have this condition that usually say naughty words. The ticks involve naughty words. They often involve naughty words. I wonder why that is. I wonder if anybody knows. But it's a responsibly asked question and it is an intriguing one. And it's a complete coincidence that even May is on full disclosure tomorrow that will be released tomorrow. She's an incredible young woman. Truly incredible. Thank you, Kevin. That's a cracking question. 27 after twelve. Donald's in Rochester. Donald, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Okay, so your lady with dry eyes, whose eyes keep watering all the time, the reason being is that tears are actually quite complicated in their makeup. They've got different layers, a oily layer, a watery layer, a greasy layer. And the reason why her eyes are watering all the time is because she's lacking the oily layer. So the eye itself, the actual surface of the eyelid cornea and the conjugate cover is not being sufficiently protected. So it feels that it's dry, which is the reason why she's producing so many tears. Yes, it's very watery, but it's lacking. It's the wrong kind of moisture. It's the wrong kind of moisture, yeah. So Georgina is lacking a greasy layer. Correct. You live and learn and that's so the technica. So she has got a diagnosis of dry eyes and that is why she's producing too much thin liquid, when what she needs is the more viscous, greasy layer on her eye to protect. You have got it. Yes. That's a wonderful answer. Which is not a million miles away from where I was sort of groping around in the dark. What? I just didn't know about the greasy layers. What are your qualifications, Donald? I'm a dispensing optician. And it's Ronald. So it's Ronald in Rochester? Yes. Not Donald in Dochester. I thought it was Donald in Dorchester. Sorry, Ronald, can we change that, please? Because otherwise next time he rings in, it will come up as Donald again and I'll be rude. Round of applause for Ronald, please. Bless you. Thank you, Ronnie. It's a lovely answer, beautifully done. And you've introduced the phrase greasy layer into proceedings, which is something for which I'm also grateful, or at least my inner schoolboy is. It's coming up to half ourselves. Squeeze in one more. I think we can, can't we? Let's go to Joe, who's in Lisbon. Do you know, Joe, that you don't count on radio, did you? Well, because you're not. You don't, you don't. It doesn't count people listening overseas. So we've had Dublin, Australia and Lisbon today, so that, that's about. That's about 40%. No, 30% of today's callers who don't even count for radar. I know. Well, I'm very grateful, but you don't count. We've got to do something about this, Joe. We've got to make you matter more. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. We've got a rescue dog who because of diabetes, has gone completely blind. Oh, no, I'm sorry. No, but he's completely. He's really, really gentle with adults, with humans, with children, with other dogs, until he comes across a french bulldog. Oh, well, the same one. Sorry, the same one. No, no, he's a Breton, he's a Brittany spaniel. Yeah. And as soon as a french bulldog comes within two foot of him, he's like, we've got a Rottweiler. Is that right? Any old french bull. I mean, how many french bulldogs do you bump into in Lisbon? Well, it's not just Lisbon. We travel around in the motorhome, so. Really? How exciting. Yeah. So any french bulldog at all will set him off and nothing else does. That's the only dog. Big dogs, Alsatians, nothing he'll run away from. But it's like you've got a tiger when a french bulldog comes along. Well, I never. And he can't see them clearly. So, you know, is it. Do they recognize other beads through sense alone? Is that what we're asking? Can they smell out? Can your dog, what's his name? His name's Bertie. Bertie? Yeah. Can Bertie smell french bulldogs? Well, yeah. Can he smell? Because he knows it's only a french bulldog. He does it to. Well, I never. And like I say, he's such a little lamb. Yeah. And it's just like, we've got a rottweiler. Has he ever had a bad experience with a french bulldog? Do we know? Back in the day when he was a little puppy? No, no, no. I mean, he was a rescue dog. Oh, so we don't know, then. We don't know, then. No. We got him very, very young. I think he was only about six months when we got him. Never, ever had a problem, apart from we were in a bar the other day and a french bulldog come in, it was just like, we've got a. Bertie, Bertie, calm down, Bertie, it's all right. Bertie. You said, didn't you? There's a text there. A text has just come in. My spaniel is exactly the same. Whenever he sees a french bulldog, he's not blind, but it's just the french bulldog that sets them off. I mean, they have got a french bulldog and he's. And he's blind, so he can't see the dog. I worked that bit out when you told me he was blind, Joe. There's an astonishing. I mean, they do have our little one. What is going on in their brain when they're sniffing is just off the charts. Isn't it about the level of detail that is being conveyed purely through smell. But. Yes, but can you. Can they identify a specific breed of dog through smell alone? Is the question, I think. Yeah, you're on. Let's find out. Maybe you've got an amazing dog. You might have an amazing dog. You could get him on crofts a bit. An odd one. Anyway, we're on. How does it work? Dogs recognition. Bertie smell, french bulldogs. 1232. Amelia Cox has your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. 1236 is the time and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Shall I run through the questions? Shall I run through the questions? Do we need answers? I'll run through the questions. I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll run through the questions. Do birds get better at building nests as they get older? Boom. We've done that one. It was a good, good question. What's the name of the electronic microscopic? No, Heather asked the question. Who answered it? Neil. In Dublin, we like that. The Chinatown. Why is Chinatown often next door to the gay village? Not always, but often. Why do people with Tourette's often deploy naughty words during their tics as opposed to, you know, non naughty words? Why do we celebrate. Why do we call it a birthday when it's not a birthday? Why do we celebrate birth anniversaries, if you see what I mean? How can mark never wake himself up with his snoring, even though if he went into his bedroom and made the same decibels yourself, you'd wake him up in a moment. Can you see data? Is there any way in which you can see data when a phone pings its location to a satellite or whatever, can you ever see. Is there any way you could actually physically see it through software or technology? I like that question, but I think the answer is probably no. What do babies dream of? We've sorted out Georgina's dry eye. It's all about the greasy layer. And we're not talking about Nigel Farage. It's about opticians and ophthalmology. Almager ophthalm eyes. And can a dog smell another dog? Because Bertie, Joe's dog is blind but goes a bit bonkers whenever a french bulldog saunters into the bar. And on we go. Ian's in Biggleswait. Ian, question or answer? It's a question, but be gentle with me, mate. I've already been interrogated by your staff. Good. I know. They can't let through any old. They can't let through any old Tom Dick or Ian? Okay, we'll move on. Right. Why can we not resist the temptation to keep going back to a place to find something you lost? Oh, I see, yeah. Gentle. Well, I'm sorry about that. I've got a crack team. I know, but you're just making sure that, you know, we knew exactly what the question was, that you were focused, that you were paying attention. So you've lost your keys anyway. Not spoke to you in a few years. I am all right. Yeah. Where have you been? What have you been up to? Well, ducking and diving from London, right, to Biggles Hyde, was it? Well, obviously, Tim. Yeah, because I'm in Biggles way. Oh, you saw through my little ruse there. Worst thing I ever did. But never mind. Are you going to get me an answer to this question? And you know, the Tourette's question you got? Yeah. You're not allowed to answer it. No, no, no. I wish I went for that one because that's been bothering me for a long time. That's a good question, isn't it? It's an interesting one. Yeah. I'll find out. Well, I hope I'll find out for you. I mean. What you're going to find out. Tourette's? No. Well, both of. Both of them. But for you specifically, it would be. Why, when you've lost something, do you go and look in a place you've already checked? Really? Is what we're saying. Yes. I like that question. And it's very. Do you know what's even more? Because it took me a long time to get it across. So I gather. I'll tell you what annoys me, Ian. Yeah, go on. I'm very, very happily married. If I had to list the things about misses O'Brien that mildly, mildly irritate me, it would be a very, very short list. I know that on her list it would be that I lose things all the time. At one point last week, keys, bank card and phone, you know, I'm all right on the phone. I've got one of those pingers now. Terrible. With a phone. So at one point last week, I was missing my woolly hat, my beard trimmer, my beard trimmer, my sunglasses, which have got a prescription lens in them. And there was one other thing as well. There were four things I was missing. I'd even reached the point where I was offering cash rewards to the kids if they could find beard trimmer, sunglasses, woolly hat. There's one other thing as well. I can't remember what it was and I'll ask her where things are. And that obviously irritates her a lot, but do you know what she often says? So if I say, have you seen the keys? She'll say, have you looked in the key pot? And I'm like, of course I've looked in the blooming keypot. It's the first place I've looked. I've lost my hat. She said, have you looked on the hat stand? Of course I've looked on that. So that I find. I find that mildly, very mildly irritating, Ian. I just thought I'd share that with you, mate. No, it's all right. And with lots of people that are listening. Can I ask a question about your woolly hat? Yeah, of course you can. Yeah. Well, it ain't a beanie, is it? No, it's not. It's a nice sort of. It's quite. It's quite. It's got a bit of cashmere in it. It's a. It's a smart. That's why I was so shown off. No, I'm not showing you off, I'm just establishing its non beanie credentials. It's a nice. Because I like a woolly hat, but it's got to be like a fisherman's hat. Yeah, exactly that, doc, is that. Yeah, that's what it's like. Because if you got. Wear a hat, you got to style it up a little. I love it a lot. I love my hat. I'm a big hat fan. Especially as my hair disappears. I find hats more and more pleasant. You're on. Thank you. Why do you always go and look again in the place that you've already looked when you've lost something psychological? That's. There'll be a psychological answer to that question. Paul's in Bowness in Scotland. Paul, question or answer? I'm sorry, James. It's a pedantic, pedantic inquiry. Right, come on, then. Well, the centre of London. You're close, but I can give you more specifics. Yeah, go on, then. Eleanor of Aquitaine was correct, apparently. Well, this Charles I. The statue of Charles I right in front of Trafalgar Square. Yeah. Which looks down towards Parliament. That is the centre of London. That's where all the road markings all count to. That sign. Are you serious? Where did I get Charing Cross? Where did I get Charing cross from, then? Well, you're close. You're only about 200 meters. That makes a difference. What are your qualifications? My qualifications are, about ten years ago, I made a documentary called Secrets of the city for ITV with Griffey Stones. Oh, that'd be nice. It was. Good show. Yeah. I like Griffey's chance. He was doing something the other day and I thought that was very enjoyable. Anyway, I digress. He's an old pal, but we did. One of the items was about that very thing and we filmed at that very little mini roundabout and spoke about it. And I tell everyone whenever I'm traveling around London, all my facts and figures. And you contradicted one of them and on the national radio. Yeah. No, and you couldn't let it lie. I am actually, in my own defense, that is where the original charing cross was. No, it's true. Really? Yes. So you're talking about the statue of King Charles on the south side of the square? I am. Behind which a small plaque lies marking the official centre of London and the original site of the Charing Cross. Are we going to split a clap? I think we. I think we should. I'm up for that if you are. I'm up for that. Okay. Which half do you want, the first half or the second half? I think the second half could ring longer. Let's go for the second half for me. All right. Let's see how this works out. Oh, yeah, you did. You got a bit more than me there, Paul. I wasn't expecting that. It's grossly unfair. I demand the recap. Lovely stuff. Thank you. And you're absolutely right, I didn't. There it is. So both right and wrong at the same time. It's a miracle. Thank you, Paul. Glenn's embassy. Question or answer? Answer. Birthdays. Why do we call them birthdays? Okay, so there's two contenders for the word birthday, both being old English. You had the word bird and. And it looks like in the Middle English period, those two words combined to create the word birth. Oh, yeah. So saying happy birthday in old English, you'd say yeastalia bird day to thee. Happy birthday to thee. Why do we wait for the anniversary? First of all, anniversary comes to us by French anyway, the word anniversary. But culturally, it's probably down. Why do we wait so long? It's high mortality rates among children during the Middle Ages. Good grief. Yeah. So you're celebrating almost survival? Yeah, pretty much. How much? Because, Glenn, for people who don't know, is my sort of go to man for actual Anglo Saxon. And the low, is it the low languages? Is that the right phrase to use? Well, it's old English. Anglo Saxon is old English, so it's basically a form of High German. How far into a conversation if you could find someone else that speaks it. How far would you get, do you reckon? Oh, God. I can pick out about every one word in three. Is that all? Yeah, because apparently my pronunciations are quite good. Yeah, I thought that. I don't have the ear for it. Why not? I don't know. Just the way it goes. I'm still trying. I mean, I can recite stuff once I've heard it, I can recite it, but obviously, when you hear people speak it quite fast. If you watch shows like vikings, for example. Yes. They often go between old Danish and old English, and I can pick similarities between the boats. You can tell when they're doing it correctly. It's all there, but. Yeah, but I mean, it's nice. Every time I can pick up, I do a little jump up and down dance, you know what I mean? I bet you do, yeah. No, first of all, it's got you another round of applause. Anyway, you've got a few. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Lovely stuff. Thank you. 1245 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1249 is the time. Got to pick a winner. There's still quite a lot that need answers, aren't there? Babies, dreams, dogs can. Dogs smell specific species. Why do you go back to the place you've already looked in? When you lose stuff, is data ever visible? Any software that lets you see data? How come your own snoring doesn't wake you up when it's loud enough to wake the dead? Tourette's. And the propensity of people's tics to involve rude words. Done the birthday one? Kind of done the birthday one. We did do the birthday one. Glenn nailed the birthday one. I like the nests one. Is anyone gonna have a go at the nests one? Do birds get better at building nests as they get older? You've only got eight or nine minutes to get in on that one. James is in Stockport. James, question or answer? Hi, James. You're right, I'm grand. How are you? Hey. Yeah, I've got an answer, please. For the gay village and the Chinatown question. Go on, then. There's two bits to this. So, firstly, immigrants will usually pick the most, the cheapest and most rundown areas of the city. Not always, but for fairly obvious reasons. Absolutely. So Chinatown usually comes first, and then what happens is, historically, going back into the news in the northeast and the nineties, using Canal street as an example. In Manchester, the gays were seen as using something called the pink pound. So because they had a lot of money, you were onto that one there. So they will regenerate the air. And the reason it gets regenerated is because women usually feel safer in that environment. And then through. Through time, as it comes more and more popular, it becomes gentrified and before you know it, you've got everyone using it. So that's usually how it happens. You have now especially. No, it's a lovely example. I know Canal Street. I know that better than I know Birmingham. And the. I mean, part of it, just to add to your answer, is it was a time when discrimination was so bad that you needed bars and nightclubs that were exclusively gay, even though you might get straight women in there for the reasons you've touched on. It was somewhere where gay men could be confident they weren't going to get. Well, first of all, that they could, you know, try and cop off with someone, and second of all, not get victimized, not get exposed to homophobic abuse. So it would. So you've got to open somewhere from scratch. You're going to go to the part of town that the immigrants have gone to more or less for the same reasons. Well, I'm coming at it from a planning and regeneration point of view, so that my qualification. I did a master's in town planning. I'm a town planner. We actually focused on Canal street as a case study. What year would you say that started? I think it started in the early noughties, around sort of 0304. And then it was before. It was before. It was. When did Manto open? I used to go to Manto. I was there in the early nineties. Manto opened up. There you go. I think Manto might have been the first. The first barter. And then there was a night called fruit at the brick house on. On Whitworth street. That was not. To be fair, my degree was in 2010. So, yeah, it could have been ages ago, making me feel old. But you've got the right. You've got the right answer. Because I lived in Chulton with two gay lads, so I'd often go out with them because the quality of the dance music, the DJ's, were better than they were. Yeah, my missus loves it. So we end up. We end up having one in there before the train at Piccadilly to come home. I live halfway between Manchester and Sheffield, so it's. It's always one and then ends up being three. And you think you see some right sights down there. It's got you. A round of applause, James, beautifully done. Excellent. Thank you. Gavin's in concert in County Durham. Gavin, what would you like to say? Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's about newborn dreaming. Oh, yes. So first of all, newborns spend about 18 hours a day asleep and half of that time in REM, that's rapid eye movement sleep, which correlates very closely with dreaming. Yes. Then the question of the content. So there are theories and people have written about them having zero content because they have no identity yet. But actually there's another insight into this and that is right from the beginning of being newborn, you have a massive conflict and that is whether to eat or breathe as soon as. When you're first given the opportunity of eating drinking milk. It's a pretty big conflict of the children and they. And they have to work out how to do both at once or how to, you know, interweave the two skills because it's a new challenge. So that is quite stressful. So I think the idea that Okta actually has got nothing happening and there is no stress or strain is probably wrong. And then finally, quite often, because you go between the various stages of sleep, between REM sleep and stages one to four of non remain a child, a newborn will wake up stressed, crying or whatever, and it's probably to do with that stress that it's already experienced right from the first attempt. Isn't that interesting? Because it is the first. Yeah, of course. Qualifications? Well, I'm retired consultant, but I spent about 40 years monitoring brain function. So you kind of get into thinking what's happening, you know, in the brain. Yeah, of course you do. That's really good. That's a fascinating answer. Thank you, Gavin. So the dream. The dreams would reflect that tension, that conflict, really. Probably. I think it's probably more than having sense of identity, it's what the newborns are all struggling with. It's the major issue for them. We'll never know for sure, but it's more than enough to get a round of applause. Lovely stuff. Thank you. Thank you, Gavin. What clever bunch we've got today. Or mystery? It's just me letting the side down. 1255 Adam's in forest of Dean. To the forest of Dean, Adam. Question or answer? It's an answer. James, carry on, mate. To the tourette's question. Yes. As to why do people with Tourette's swear often and often? Well, they. They may do, but it's not that common. Most. The vast majority of tics are physical. There are obviously vocal tics and of the vocal tics, a very small percentage of those come out in swearing. Yes. So I imagine we notice it more. They just make. Well, it makes the best tv shows, doesn't it? There may be some looking into it. Yes, there may be some. Yeah. You know, a tv show, somebody blinking or pushing their fingers together or swallowing or something may not make the best. You know, there is. There is. There is an argument that, um. That it. The brain actually seeks out words that are shocking words, words that offenders. But I think even if that were true, you're right to remind us that actually it's a rarity. And the much more common ticks are the physical ones, and even if they are verbal, that they're not going to be rude words. They're not going to be. No. And my daughter's got Tourette's and she has a few. How old is. But she is 1660. Does she know? Does she follow Evie may on TikTok? Are you familiar? Evie Meg. Sorry? Evie, Meg. Evie, Meg. I heard you saying, have a look at tomorrow's full disclosure. Okay. And because it might. It might be just. Just to feel seen, I think. I think it will mean quite a lot and you get a round of applause. It feels a bit trivial in the circumstances, but. Hey ho. Thank you, Adam. And it wasn't Eleanor of Aquitaine, it was Eleanor of Castile. Of course. Just to just. I like to clarify, I like to correct the record before I clock off for the day. Ross is in Birmingham. Question or answer, Ross? I got an answer. Carry on, mate. Hi. Yeah, it's about whether you can see mobile phone signals, data traveling, whether it's possible to proceed with it. Yes. No. No, I don't think so. So, yeah. It's a shame, really. But if they. If you could, we probably would have known about it. Well, you could model it. If you knew where your signal was going from and going to. You could just draw a line. I'm sure there's websites that do that, but you won't be able to actually see the data. See it, see the ping. Yeah. That's because community wireless communication is done through infrared, through electromagnetic radiation, radio waves, infrared, so forms of light. And I'm going to be a typical scientist here and give you a model. If I were to shine a torch across your field of vision, so not into your eyes, directly perpendicular. If there was no dust in the way, nothing reflecting that light, you would not perceive that light at all, because it's not reflecting off anything going into your eye. And if you had an eye that could detect radio waves and you did the same thing, you couldn't see it. So a satellite, even if. Well, you couldn't have a satellite do it anyway, because radio waves don't leave the atmosphere like that. So it's impossible. It's all their qualifications, a level physics, and I'm a practicing scientist. I phoned up and answered your question about can birds see ultraviolet light? And all that sort of thing. I know way too much about light perception. You can't know too much about light perception. Seriously. The alternative is darkness. Round of applause for Ross. Can I squeeze in one more, Keith? Tim Beckham. I can't really, Keith. We'll come back to it next week. That's it from me for another day. What? I'm about to announce the ball game winner. Give me a chance. Seriously. Honestly, from all out. I don't know. Have you got one? I'm gonna give it to. Oh, I can't. She's in Lisbon in a. In a motorhome. Let's give it to Glenn, if he hasn't got one already. If he has got one already, then I'll pick again. But Glenn, our Anglo saxonist. Anglo saxophonist. And if it's. Yeah, that'll do. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again on tomorrow morning from ten, I think. I'm broadcasting live from Manchester in the morning, actually. So what's going on? I know. Just excitement. I'm doing some work with the charity up there. Here's Sheila Fogarty, whose radars are off the charts. Well, yeah, I'm trying to catch up with you and Nick Ferrari and you keep. Honestly, it's like that annoying girl in the 400 meters who would always be a little bit faster. You know what I mean? Any minute now. Any minute. Any minute. You just relax. You relax.