The origin of 'black and white'?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time, and for the first time in living memory, I think you've forgotten that it was 12:00 on a Thursday and that mystery hour was about to unfold. So you can. You've got a much better chance of getting through now if you're quick than you have at any other point in the last, probably a decade, is it? Or something like that. If you don't know what mystery hour is, allow me to take a moment to remind you. It's your weekly opportunity to the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. You have a question that needs an answer, a mystery that needs a solution, a riddle that needs unraveling, or indeed an enigma that needs. That craves satisfaction. And somebody else listening to the program will know the answer to your question. It can be silly, it can be serious, it can be scientific, it can be sporting. We try to avoid motoring questions, but that's a very personal and particular prejudice on my part that is diminishing slightly as the year. But the first thing you got to do is get in touch. We also live in an era now where prize is available. Not only is a prize available, the prize is an actual mystery hour board game based entirely on this radio feature. That's something I never thought would happen in a million years. And I know because I've been signing them book events, that quite a lot of people are going to have one under their tree this Christmas. But if you want to get your own, you can do so at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. Or you can just make my favorite contribution of the day today. You can be my favorite questioner or answerer on today's mystery Hour, because there will be one brand spanking new box fresh, shiny edition of the Mystery Hour board game winging its way to whoever I, and my decision is final. Whoever I anoint as this week's winner, which I will do right at the end of the hour. The full terms and conditions. Because this does remarkably qualify as a proper grown up competition, the full terms and conditions are available at LBC Co. So that's mysteryhour dot co dot UK for the game and LBC dot co dot UK for the rules and regulations, the terms and conditions of the competition. To win one today, five minutes after twelve is the time. Shall we crack on? I think we should nag is in Peckham. Naj. Question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on. It's related to freedom of movement. Yeah. And the question is, if a UK passport holder goes to Europe and overstays their 90 days, what is the penalty? If they get stopped by the old bill or their passport, you know, their 90 days is over. Or if they come back after overstaying 90 days to the UK, what's the penalty? That's a good question. I mean, it's a very serious news. I mean, it's not exactly a light hearted dive into the. Into the lighter side of life, is it? It's almost a news based question, this. But what have you got planned? Nothing. Nothing. You little liar. You're clearly up to something and you think I work. I know that you will have difficulty getting back in to the country. Do you see what I mean? So if you. So if you've overstayed your 90 days already, then that's why we're going to have these checks. It's why we have to have these checks. Although, please don't forget, naj, everybody knew exactly what they were voting for when they voted for less regulation. They were actually voting for more regulation. But if. You mean if you're in France, cheaper, cheaper everything. Cheap new shoes, cheaper food, cheap shoes for peasants, all of that. Loads of money for the NHS. Loads of money for the NHS. Red tape being torched all over the place. What you want to know, really, is if you're in France and it's day 95. Yeah. And the gendarmerie arrived, I've got. Yeah, what happens? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You're on. I'll find out. And I still. I still. I know that you've got something planned, Naj. I'm not stupid, mate, but, you know, good. Good luck to you. Bon chance. 1207 is the time. If you're in the EU and you've overstayed the 90 days, what happens? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. James is in Winchester. James. Question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, James. Okay. Why are the majority of fruits round? Or at least globular? Well, I'm thinking, James. I'm thinking. I mean, first of all, I'm thinking. Are you correct? But that is clear. You clearly are, aren't you? It's not. I mean, bananas are banana shaped. I know Boris Johnson would like to have been straightened or something. That's astonishing. Brexit has featured in two questions. Mystery hour is usually a Brexit free zone and now we've got a 100% Brexit hit rate on the mystery hour. Questions. So why are they all round? Yeah. I mean, I don't think anyone would know the answer to that, do you? Well, it's a brilliant question. I have no idea. There's no reason why they should be. Well, equal distribution of weight. So they'd stay on a bush or a tree for longer, so there'd be some sort of evolutionary advantage. Oh, I like that idea. Yeah. Going round. But then you've got. You've got bananas. Yeah, but a bunch of bananas. A bunch of bananas is arguably globular. Well, it's very long, isn't it? A hand of bananas is very long. Yeah, but it is. The curvaceousness of it could be construed as globular. Okay, but if you apply that idea, then grapes are more triangular, aren't they? Because a bunch of grapes is triangular, although the individual grape is round. Individual grape is round, but that is dangling. Yeah, let's leave that. Let's. Sorry. I've taken you off down a path that we never should have. Star fruit, you see. Yeah, they're sort of round, but not round, aren't they? Well, hence the name. I should try. Don't send me reminders of fruits that aren't round. All right. That doesn't alter the salience of James's question. The majority. He said, why are the majority of fruits round? And if you don't even like that, you could just say, why are so many fruits round? Why are fruits round? Why are so many fruits round? Zero. 345-606-0973 Matt is in Braintree. Matt, question or answer? That's a question, James. Carry on. Well, I think it's not Brexit related, this one, but it depends on the answer. I've noticed when blind people are reading braille that their eyes move. So just kind of why? And if it's like a sort of medical. You know, if it's got, like a medical name or something like that, or it's just a sort of method that they use to read braille, that they picture it in their minds eye. That may not be everybody who does it, because it could be a scent for people who've lost their sight. It would be a sense memory, wouldn't it? It would be so. But the words just when you. If you would. I think you'd. Do I. Well, I think you're. It's almost like a physical manifestation of how language works, isn't it? Yeah, but I mean, left to right things without actually looking at them and stuff like that. Yeah. I mean, it's a touch. It's not a sight thing. Yes, it is. I mean, I would like to know if it is someone that's lost their sight. Yeah, that would be the answer. But. But if it is not the case, your eyes are in sync with your fingers. I guess in that you're. You're kind of. You've got a left to right movement going on, but someone will. Well, I'll find out. It's a sensitively phrased question for which I. For which I'm grateful. I've tried my best to. But it's genuine curiosity, and it is therefore completely. A completely reasonable question. Thank you. Matt Markham. Mark, question or answer? Question? Please carry on. Mark my question. I don't know how to what the question, but I will put it straight away as it comes to my head. Okay. Who named people black or white? Why is he majorly african or caribbean called black? When. If I see any indian looking guy, even though he's from Sri Lanka, automatically in my head, I'll say he's an asian guy. Yeah. Or. Yeah, but why. Why are people called. The concept of naming people by the court, by the. By the color of their skin, who started it? How does it come to this world who name people white or black? Because the people called white are not white, if you think of the color. Yeah. So, yeah, some of us are pinker than others, Mark. And also you've got many different gradations of darker skin as well. Right. You know, right through. Yeah. So what I don't. It's the actual choice of the word black that you're picking up on. The choice of the word black and the word white. Yeah. I just want to know who named people. Like, I don't know how it started with. Well, I know. I mean, I did. What a strange bunch of questions we've got this week. It's the last one of the year we've got. I mean, I. Okay. Yeah. I'm just curious, like, who started. How does he. How does he emanate it? Is there anything in the Bible about it? Is there anything in the Bible about skin color pigmentation? I just want to find out history where. Why did you call us black and white when we're. You know, we're a hundred different shades, none of which really are proper black. You do get proper white and proper. Yeah, if you think about the primary colors. When did we start referring to ourselves as black and white? Black and white. Black or white or white and non white. Okay, you're on. I don't know. They've got four questions here, all of which. Well, the first one you can answer, but the other three. Well, we'll see. More in hope than expectation. We press on. Thank you, Mark. He's got a point, hasn't he? Is it a black and white issue? Stephen is in Alcaldeza in Spain. Stephen, question or answer? It's a question. James, first of all, congratulations on 100k sales. You're very. That's very kind of you. Thank you very much. I will accept that in good grace, with no false modesty whatsoever. Carry on, Steve. As would be expected. James, I have a question. If in the past, I perhaps dated Kate Middleton or Diana Spencer. Yes. Before they met their erstwhile royal husband. What's stopping me writing a tell all book about my time with Kate or my date with Di? Nothing, but I've never seen one. Well, that's just good grace. That's good manners. Because, I mean, James Hewitt did, didn't he, albeit that he had his relationship with Diana after she'd married Prince Charles. If there was any rules in place to stop people from doing that, you'd think they'd kick in more post royal marriage than pre. Yeah, I just. I just wondered if there is a, like a royal decree that says if you have been in a relationship with, say, the queen to be, then you are not allowed to write about it. No, I mean, I presume part of the reason for previous generations insisting on the virginity of a royal bride would be. Would be linked to the concept of protecting the privacy of the monarch. But it doesn't apply because I'm pretty sure, I think someone worked here once who'd had a fling with Prince Edward in Australia, and she was very open about it on and off air. Hmm. Okay. It just popped into my head and I thought, well, I've never seen. No, I just think that they have the examples that we're thinking of will have had, you know, discretion. Let's keep it in the sort of. I nearly said family. That would be a little bit 18th century, but you keep it in the social circles, in the elevated social circles. So I'll tell you something I remember from when I was a gossip colonist, and this isn't going to answer your question, but I think it will help. The idea of talking to the media. The higher up the social ladder you get, the more outrageous it becomes. So, you know, people would tell me stuff knowing I was a gossip columnist, knowing I wouldn't print it. This is one of the many, many reasons why I was such a rubbish journalists, such a rubbish showbiz journalist, stroke, gossip columnist. Because there was a sort of. It would have been social suicide, if you see what I mean. So there's a. It would be anathema. Like a gentleman. A gentleman never tells. Joe has suggested so. And the same for a lady. So it is just convention. Convention. Tradition. And so there's no. There's no man with a stick sat next to Kate's previous boyfriend saying, don't you dare or I'll smack you on there with it. No. Categorically not. Qualifications. Rubbish journalist. You can give yourself a round of applause. Thank you very much. It's a good question. And merry Christmas to you as well. 1216 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. What happens if you are caught in the European Union having exceeded the 90 day limit on your stay? Why are most fruits round? Why, when visually impaired people are reading braille, do their eyes appear to move from left to right? When did we start referring to each other as black and white people? And I've done that one for Stephen and I'm fairly confident I'm correct. Jan is in Alicante. Jan, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Regarding the 80 days. 90 days. Sorry, nine. Spain, 80 days around the world. You go around the world today. Right. What it is here in Spain, it's a 2000 euro fine immediately. Yeah. And you banned from entering the country for as long as they actually think you can. But a lot of people don't realize that those days start as soon as you put your foot on french soil. So there's no way that someone can drive to France. Think, oh, I'll pop over to Portugal for a couple of weeks, then pop over to Spain for a couple of weeks, then pop over somewhere else in the EU, because that all adds up to your time in the EU. It's 90 days in the EU. You're absolutely right. From the moment you put your foot on french soil or your tires. So the punishment may change from country to country, but the clock is ticking. But also here at the moment in Spain, even though people keep asking, there's no proof here that happened to anyone. No. Okay. On all the Facebook pages, on whatever people saying, has anyone been caught yet? Has anyone been punished? I think that was. I think that was. No one's done anything yet. I think that might have been the motivation behind Naj's question. Jan, actually, do you want to know something amazing that I've just noticed? Well, it's amazing to me, but I've probably oversold it to you. I think this is the first time in the history of mystery hour that someone who asked a question has had it answered by a person who has the same name backwards. Oh, really? So, Naj. Naj wanted to know the answer to this question, and the spelling he gave to our producer was N a J. And Jan J A N has now answered the question. And that, I think, is a history making moment in mystery owl. Oh, there we are. Do I get anything for that? Just a round of applause. But also, you know, you're in the hat. You're in the hat for the mystery. Our ball game. I don't take. I can't imagine that's ever happened before. And I don't know why I noticed to be a just lit. Oh, and she can't win the ballgame because she's in flipping Spain. And that is also her qualifications for being able to answer the question. So there are punishments in place, but how much effort the spanish police or the. Or the. Or the french police or the german police are putting into finding people from outside, british people from outside the EU who've overstayed their welcome, but they'll know when you try to come back that that would be quite an interesting thing to know because that clock is ticking all the time that you're there. Mark is in Barrow, in furnace. Mark. Hello. Hello. Question or answer? It was a pleasure to meet you. Have we done this since you came to Manchester? Have you been on since we met in the flesh? No, I nearly. Nearly got on, but we haven't. It was an absolute pleasure to meet you. Mystery, our royalty turning up in Manchester. It's very kind of you to say that. It was an absolute pleasure to meet you and hear you being interviewed by another friend of mine, the magnificent Robin Ince. No, it was a lovely night. Thank you. Question or answer? Well, I'm giving you an answer about terms for skin color. Yes. And it seems that the current idea of black versus white rather polarized like that. Yes. Goes back to european colonial times mainly. Until then, of course, a lot of people seldom met someone that different from themselves in skin color, of course. But once european colonization happened, especially with institution of slavery, there was clear polarization between Europeans and, say, Africans and Afro caribbean people and so on. And that seems to be when this stark contrast developed, mainly. I mean, as you say, white people aren't really white, they're more pink. Steve Biko said that once. Yes. That. Why do you call yourselves white? You're pink. Yes. And when I lived in Southeast Asia, we met some people who were even blacker in skin color than most Africans, south indian people, camels and so on. Yes, some of them were very black, but they weren't described as black because they weren't Africans or Afro Caribbeans. And that would. So the word would have kicked in. Then. The actual word black, the word would have kicked in. Used of skin color particularly. Yes, but sometimes people just used it descriptively. So I remember a story about how someone pointed to a group of men in West Africa and said, that man has been stealing planks. Which man? That black man. Yes. As opposed to others who were different shades of brown. Oh, okay. But in the ancient world, for example, in ancient Greece, there isn't much discussion of skin color. It's more a question of what culture people were from. So you have to introduce the hierarchy almost to justify the colonialism, don't you? You do. And I mean, even if they did use a skin color, for example, sometimes the Greeks described egyptian people as red in color. Yes. Rather than the way that Native Americans used to be called red men and so on, of course. And they're not really red that they were. They were different from the Greeks. They were darker in hue than the Greeks and in that general direction. That's absolutely fascinating. So, I mean, the one problem, though, with this is that the greek, ancient greek color terms are themselves complicated and awkward. And in fact, William Gladstone got involved in that argument. Indeed, it was once a claim that the Greeks were systematically colourblind. Oh, really? But for example, Homer describes the sea as the color of white. And that seems odd. I mean, greek wine mostly read. And then there's an argument about, oh, it doesn't mean the hue. It means the saturation and so on and so on. So it's quite difficult to be decisive about ancient greek colour terms. Anyway, I didn't know that. It's a big, big field. Big field. So if we were going to pin down Mark's question, we'd go for what, the 17th century? Maybe, maybe a bit earlier than that. But there's not going to be a hard date. There's not going to be a right answer to this. But you've described the tides development. I love that the tides on which this question rides. But it'd be particularly when you got the european driven slave trade and therefore people were coming into contact with african people in that kind of context. And it became important to be very decisive about the difference, about the distinctions, qualifications. Longstanding, general historical and skeptical linguist genius is the word we're looking for. Another round of applause for Mark. Thank you. Kind of you and have a wonderful Christmas. And I keep saying it, but I would love to do something with you at some point in a sort of podcast type format. But we will. We're just so busy, both of us, but we will try and do something there because I could listen to you all day. David is in Edgeware. David, question or answer? Question, please carry on. So if you have a choir of, say, ten people and they're all singing, if one of them sings out of tune, it's immediately obvious it sounds terrible. Yes. If you have 1000 people or 10,000 people in a crowd singing, there's going to be at least 10% of those are singing out of key, but you cannot hear them. It sounds absolutely fine, as you all hear in any concert or something, when the performer puts his microphone to the crowd and it all sounds fantastic. So my question is, what's the cutoff point? What is there a magic number whereby if you have more than this number, you can no longer hear but what it might be volume? So if you've got a choir of ten people singing and you played it really loudly, do you think it would still be dissonant? Do you think you'd still detect the out of tune voice as clearly as you? I think so, yeah. Yeah. Whereas. So it's not percentages. That's the point. 10% of a massive crowd singing out of tune are not going to stick out. Like 10%. I don't have any data saying that 10% of crowds will sing out of tune, but I would imagine football crowds going to be. At least 10% are going to be singing out of. Out of tune in some way. What if it is? Because actually not singing in tune is much rarer than we realize. And if you're in a. So it's unlikely you're going to have someone singing out of tune. And the more people there are, the more drowned out they will be by everybody else. I mean, it could be, in my experience, it's not the case that there are not that many people who sing out. What is your experience? Well, I'm a sort of amateur musician myself, but. But just going to any, any sort of, you know, if you do go to a concert, even, it might be that on television when you hear it, it sounds fine, but when you're in the crowd, you can hear people around you are not seeing you in cheeks. I'd like to apologize for that, David, if it's because I have a particular. I am awful. I can sing about four hymns in tune and everything else in my head. I sing perfectly, I sing beautifully. But as soon as I open my gob, it all goes south. I like that question. I shall endeavor to get. I'll endeavor to get you an answer to it. And thank you very much if there is one. They're all in that category a bit today where I'm not even sure if they. If these questions will have answers. Why do. If 10% of a tiny choir is singing out of tune, you can hear it. But if 10% of a massive choir is singing out of tune, you can't, we believe. Why is that? Zero? 345-606-0973 the 90 day question, a couple of you reminding me. Thank you, Len and others, is Schengen, isn't it? I don't know what the bigger rules are for the EU in general. If you went to a non schengen country, the 90 day thing is still ticking. But the idea of you being in the zone, the Schengen zone is why the France Jans point about France and Spain was important to make. But 28 minutes after twelve, a lot of you just as excited as I was by that observation that Naj asked the question and Jan answered it. I don't know why. There's probably not even a word for that. Such a rare occurrence, is it? Angie is in Barnett. Angie, question or answer? Hello. There is an answer. Carry on, Angie, to the fruit question. Yes. So the reason any plant makes fruit is to disperse seeds. Ah, yes, right. Yes. No, they want the seeds as far as possible. If that fruit is round as it falls, it's going to travel as far as it possibly can. As in it's going to roll as it's going to roll, yeah. So it's going to cast those seeds nice and wide as possible. I mean, that is it, isn't it? It's a short answer, but it's also an answer possessed of a perfect beauty, a perfect symmetry and a non round. And a non round fruit would not. And in fact, that takes us back to bananas, which are, of course, not fruits. Maybe they just depend on monkeys. They're seed pods. Well, they do, don't they? I wonder whether also, you know, round fruit equals a round seed and a round seed will pass through our alimentary canals more easily, perhaps, than a. No, that's a stupid thing to say. Logic. Yeah, you've got it. Qualifications. 30 years working as a gardener, flinging a lot of seeds around and I like fruit and the round ones go further. I mean, you try rolling a brick down a hill. There you go. Thank you very much. Round of applause for Angie. Look at that. Fantastic Christmas started early in Barnett. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 32 minutes after twelve. A lot of you really enjoyed John Harvey's appearance on the program. John written that book about his brother Dan, a fan for all seasons. And do you know, it struck me that something crazy happened on the same day that John was coming in. I got a letter off a chap called Chris Swift, which is one of the most lovely letters I've had in a very long time, because Chris put together a fanzine for Kidderminster Harry's football club, which, as you know, is mine, in the late 1980s, called the soup. And he has sent me what is believed to be the last surviving full set of copies of this fanzine. And he is also dealing at the moment with terminal cancer. So that idea of sport, somehow transcending all sorts of earthly concerns and bringing people together in remarkable ways, including across the radio airwaves, literally landed on my desk this morning as John was preparing to come in to talk to us about his book and his brother. So thank you, Chris, if you're listening, that has absolutely made my day, especially the bit about your son being offered the fancies first and responding by saying, dad, you're a fossil. So happy Christmas, mate, and good luck and thank you. 1233 is the time. Back to mistry. Our Victoria is in Manchester, Victoria. Question or answer? Question, James. Yes. Why are certain viruses like chickenpox, but there are others are causing significantly milder symptoms in children than they do in adults? If you contract them as an adult, are you sure? Is it worse? You mean if you've never had it and you get it as an adult? That's the one. So chicken pox is one, but then there are others, like hunt for a mouse and then these cases of mumps. Before the vaccine was developed, it was much more dangerous to contract mumps. I know that. Mumps for a boy could affect your fertility, though, so it cuts. So maybe it's got something to do with puberty, but I don't know what. So why are some viruses much more dangerous, much more unpleasant for adults than they are for children? Yes, that's a really good question. Why do you want to know? Just curiosity. I've got a one and a half year old. So we're going through the phase of her bringing home all sorts from nursery. And when she had hand, foot and mouth and recovered after three days. And I was floored for about four weeks with it. That sort of brought in the question. Yeah, of course it did. Of course it did. I've never thought of it like that before. We shall try and get you an answer, Victoria. Thank you. Oh, thank you. I'm just looking at the previous question and wondering what the question David asked about chairs was. But I can't read my own writing. He was asking about choirs, wasn't he, Victoria? Thank you. Denise is in Lisbon in Northern Ireland. Denise, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The question about Braille. Why do blind people's eyes move from left to right? Thank you. If they're reading Braille, it's likely due to. If you lose your sight, either if you've been blind from birth or at a very early age, then you develop a condition called nystagmus, which is an involuntary movement of your eyes. And usually from left to right, it can be up and down as well. And that would be why. So it would actually be happening all the time and we just notice it more, perhaps, because it seems a bit anomalous when people are reading braille. Yeah, it's like, well, James Galway's not blind, but he has nystagmus. So if you watch him when he's playing the flute, his eyes flick. And if you didn't know, you might just think his eyes were flicking across the music, but it's because he has nystagmus. Well, there you go. Qualifications? I'm an optometrist. Oh, they'll do. That's nice, isn't it? So you don't. So it's more common among blind people, is it? It is more common amongst blind people, but not confined and people who are visually impaired. It's why a lot of blind people wear sunglasses. Why Stevie wonder wears sunglasses, because he has involuntary eye movements. And obviously, the younger you are when you lose your sight, the worse it can be because you've really got no. No motor control of your eyes. So. Oh, that's a perfect answer. Thank you, Denise. No problem. Round of applause, please, Denise, on the page. Thank you. 1236 is the time. Mark's in Dunfermline. Mark, question or answer? It's an answer, James, carry on. Your phone line is gone. Not your fault. Nobody's fault. We'll try and fix it up. 1236 is the time I need to get. We must get Mark back. The 90 days question. We have done the round fruits question. We have done the braille question. We have done the black and white people question. We have done the Kate Middleton's love life question. We have done. So we need to know about why choirs stay in tune. The longer, the bigger they get, the more in tune they will be, and why some viruses are considerably more unpleasant for adults than the same viruses for children. Luke's in Orpington. Luke, question or answer? Question. Good afternoon. Carry on, Luke. Good afternoon. When we think of the first rainbow, which appeared to another's ark, why is it that it arcs round? Why does it bow? Does it not? What? I don't know. Give me a chance, man. I'm just trying to. I haven't even started thinking out loud yet. You're jumping down my throat. It's usually the other way around on this program. Why would it be a bow? The light. The ray of light. I know the answer to this, but I'm not going to be able to articulate it. Yeah, it's about the rays of light and diffraction and all of that malarkey and spectrum. So a curveball in, excuse a pun. Well done. Well, basically, when I came into my lounges the other day. Oh, yeah. Light was shining through the window onto a mirror and it was coming in straight line across the ceiling. The rainbow was. There was a rainbow in the ceiling coming from a mirrored. It may not have been in a straight line, you just only saw a tiny part of it. That is true. It could have been covered. But if you think of the Pink Floyd album, it's in a straight line. Oh, you're on. Why are rainbows in an arc? Arch? Yeah, Arch. Ark. Noah's ark. Noah's ark. You're on. Thank you. It's a good question. Thank you, Luke. Rainbows. I like questions about rainbows. 1238 is the time mark is in Dunfermline with an answer to the singing question. Carry on, Mark. Hi, James. That's brilliant. Look at that. Crystal clear. Clear as a bell. Carry on. Right, okay, so the answer, if you had 10% of the crowd all singing out a tune and 90% are singing in, then the reason why you're not going to hear the 10% is because they're not all going to be singing the same notes. So, for instance, the 90% are singing the correct notes. Let's say they're singing the C major. Yeah, but the 10% who are singing every tune, they're not all singing, you know, like a semitone above or a tone above or, you know, slightly sharp or slightly flat. They're all singing all over the place. So that's why you're not going to hear them. That's beautiful, actually. So. So if that mean that is literally how music works in a way, yeah. And your brain also, can you self correct? So you bet as well. You think about like a chorus pedal for a guitar. Yes. A chorus pedal actually is playing notes that are slightly waving out of tune all over the place, but your brain kind of self corrects and makes it harmonized. And also, guitar is not a. That was not completely. 100% totally in tune for any technical reasons. Qualifications? I don't actually have any. No, you do. You do, because you've answered the question. So how do you know the stuff that you've just shared with us? That's all the qualification needs to be played guitar for, you know, I don't know, 30 years or so and study music quite a bit. Yeah. And it makes perfect sense, doesn't it, because you could have. Would it be sharps and flats? Did you say so? Yeah, yeah, it could be, yeah. He's singing sharp and I'm singing a bit flat. And actually, to that, that would sound in tune. It evens out. Yeah. But also if you had, I mean, let's say, for instance, the 10% of the code, we're all singing, you know, a semitone sharp, then you probably would hear it, but for the fact that they're not all singing exactly the same notes out of tune, they're all singing, you know, slightly. Slightly sharp. Slightly. So. Whereas if there's ten people and one person out of tune, you're going to be all over it, aren't you? You're going to notice that. I did. I do a carol concert every year for the quorum charity. I have the privilege of hosting it. And as you know, this year, I had a flashback. So every year, just before the Christmas cow concert at my prep school, he'd go around, the teacher would go around pointing at some of us and saying, mime, mime, mime, because you had to contribute to the cow concert. But obviously some of us were so bad that he would tell us, we just sit there like goldfish going, oh. So just pretend that was it. Unless it was to be a pilgrim, in which case I was smashed. Anyway, have a round of applause. Thanks, Jesus. Take care. Gerard is in Corby. Gerard, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Yeah, the question I have is what it seems to me. Why isn't there an abundance of welsh specific surnames? Isn't it? I'm not aware of them. I mean, you know, the Scots, the Irish have their sort of names. Campbell, you know, O'Brien etc. But I'm not aware of loads of Welsh joins. Joins. Well, that's just. Son of John isn't John's. And it's. Jones is a welsh name, don't you? Is it? Yeah, I mean, it's obviously. Yeah, they're all like, you know, Williams, Evans, that sort of thing. But there's nothing. There's quite a lot, you know, I think a lot of names will be of welsh surnames. I think the problem is probably the opposite. I think there's been much more crossover from Welsh into english names. So you don't realize that names we think of as English are actually going to be Welsh in. Even the Earl of Cuttigen. C a d o g a n. Who owns half of Chelsea. That's a welsh name. I think I was sort of going like, Llewelyn, is that Welsh? But just in terms of the pure numbers and given that, I think that the Welsh are the most abundant native speakers out of the. Sort of out of the Welsh. Scots Irish, English. Yes. It's just bizarre that you don't. There aren't sort of real in. You're in the Welsh language. But I think that. I think there are. I think there's absolutely loads, actually. And I think. I think oddly. You've never googled this, have you? No, no, because I think if you had, you'd go, oh, God, of course. Even Cadwallader, you know, Carol Cadwallader, the brilliant journalist. Her name is a Welsh. That's a welsh name. Cadwallader. Okay, so they've kind of originated in Wales then come into the english language then. David. David. David is a welsh name. David. David. Probably even Davidson. Bevan. Yep. Nigh Bevan. Bevan. Yeah, that one. Yeah. Nurembe obviously says there's loads of christian names that. Distinctly Welsh. How was aware of distinctly Welsh? Where they howl is Welsh? Owen. Okay. Owens. Perry. Perry. Powell. There's a lot of Welsh there, mate. I think that is. I thought. Yeah, I think that we. Here is a problem we do not need to worry about. The Welsh are very, very well corrected on national radio. No, well, I should get a round of applause out of it, at least. Thank you, Gerard. Qualifications. Norman Price. Price is a welsh name. Yeah, I love it. Edwards. Edwards. I don't know why I'm trying to do the accent. John's in Brighton. John, question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on. Okay, so this comes from an imaginary conversation that I had with the almighty, you know, after. After meeting him and say, oh, so you do exist after all. Right. And he says, yes, well. And I said, well, you could have given us a clue. Yeah, and it says, well, did you not notice the moon? You know, the fact that it never, ever changes space, that it, you know, only presents one side of itself. Yeah. And also that it's exactly the right size to cause the solar eclipse effect and. Yeah, you know, because it's, you know, we get the diamond ring effect where it's precisely the right size to block out the sun. No, it's not. No, it's not. It's precisely the right distance from the sun. Exactly. But the size that it presents to us in the sky. Yeah, sort of. That's. That's a function of the distance. Yeah, but I mean, it hardly ever happens. Yeah, but it does happen, though. Yeah, but it doesn't prove the existence of the almighty. That just proves. Yeah. Okay, but also you have the fact that the face of the moon doesn't creep round. It doesn't. It's not very slow. I don't understand the question. Okay. So we only see one side of the moon, don't we? Yeah. We'd never see the dark side. No. So doesn't that strike you as being a bit weird? No, why would it? No. No. Well, that's not a mystery hour question. Doesn't that strike you as being a bit weird? How did you get on? It's not a mystery, is it? Does that strike me as being a bit weird? No, it doesn't. John, give me a round of applause. I didn't mean give me a round of applause, but what is the actual question? The question is that are we witnessing a miracle every single day? Definitely not. Definitely not. One side, but only one side of our satellite presents itself to us. Is that doesn't strike you as sort of strange? You know. Well, if I stood in the middle of the room and everybody around me was doing the okey cokey or playing ring a ring of roses, I would only see one side of them. Would that be a miracle? No, I don't think. I mean, I don't think you quite understand the. How the celestial. How the orbital mechanics of this. And I do, you know, if you. If you. If you have the reason. I know the reason why we only see one side of the moon. It's because its orbit and the rotation of the Earth are in a kind of a synchronous thing. So as. As it rotates around us. Yes. It's slowly turning in a way such that we only see one side of it. Yes. That is really, you know, the amount of celestial sort of mucking around that must have happened for that to happen strikes me as an incredible miracle. Okay, but it's something we. So is it a miracle? Can't have a question on mystery hour. Is it a miracle? Who's qualified to answer that? For example? I don't know, Professor Howell, maybe he's not God. Well, you think? I think the pope wide no knowledge of how things. He's a shy's, a sharp. He's a sharp fellow, I grant you. But I think the pope can judge what is a miracle and what is not. But it has to be done by a human. So it's just not. It doesn't even fit the definition of miracle. This I'm gonna write down. I'm gonna write down planets, moons, John, and that's it. Well, you've got to throw the eclipse into it. That's the icing on the celestial moon. Eclipse, John. Yes. All right, Brian, indulge. Brian indulge is very unhappy. Do you know what he's just sent me? You go. And then what does. Brian sent me. Brian has written, james, I couldn't get through because of moon. Because of Moon man. Question mark. I thought, this is blind. I thought you'd love it. This is like, you know, I'm team Brian. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It really is. Ten to one is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Tidally locked was the phrase that Keith was shouting in my ear that I couldn't quite understand. And that should really have dealt with John's question. The question of why chickenpox and some other viruses are more virulent, if that's the correct word, or more unpleasant for adults than they are for children, needs answering. So does the question of why rainbows are arced, why rainbows are the shape that rainbows are? I think that we've done the welsh surnames question satisfactorily. And if you want to explain very simply why the incidence of a solar eclipse is not evidence of celestial tinkering by an unknown omniscient power, then I would probably be able to make some room for you as well. Cayley's in Glensford. Cayley. Question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Carry on. It's an answer to the welsh surnames question. Oh, yes. So when welsh surnames traditionally used to be the person's name and then app. And then the father's name. So for example, you would have Sean and when the English made him, that was too difficult for them to remember and keep track of, so they started anglicizing some of the names. So someone like Pwishon would then become Paul Jones, because it sounded more like Jones, so it's easier for them to keep track of. It plays part of it, then. And that does also actually apply to Irish. I don't know about Scottish, but the anglicised, because that's why Dara O'Brien. We have the same surname, but he sticks with the original version, whereas I've got the anglicized version. Yeah. So there's a lot of welsh names that you could probably translate into English, but the real sort of hardcore Welsh got a bit ridden out by the. By the colon, not the colonizers, but by the. By the. By the conquerors, almost. Yeah. So we still get some people that stick with their traditional welsh names, because when I went to uni in Wales, we had one lecturer who was meant to be my personal tutor, and I looked at his name on the list and I had to ask for help for how to say his name, because he stuck with the Welsh. And there it is. And it's not. I mean, whether or not it's a sort of form of colonial oppression or not, I don't know, it could just be genuinely. We can't say that like, you couldn't say it, and therefore one side makes it easier for the other side, although it never really seems to go the other way, does it, with the English. So that's. What are your qualifications, then? You went to university in Wales and you witnessed it. Yeah. And I had a lot of welsh friends who explained it to me. Yeah. Well, I mean, that actually is a better answer than mine, although there are still. Still lots of names that we know are Welsh, which is what I think Gerard was asking about. They're not. They don't have the equivalent of the o apostrophe or the Mac in front of them in the way that they would have done if they hadn't been anglicized in the way that you've just described. Yeah. So probably something like someone who was called Davis, original Welsh Davis or something like that. No, that's a beautiful answer, much better than mine. And it earns you a round of applause. Thank you. How bored must a God have been to think? Day four, I'm having a quiet one. I'm going to set the moon's rotation to perfectly match that of the earth and wait three and a half billion years for someone to phone in and point it out on a radio show. Sugis in Barnett. Sugi. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. Sugi. It's about the rainbow. Oh, yeah. Excuse me. The rainbow that we see on Earth is only actually half the picture. Of course it is. Full rainbow is actually a circle. Yeah. You can view the sun as a point source. The light rays come from it. They hit the atmosphere. When they're at the correct angle, they hit the droplets, and there's a process called total internal reflection where they get bounced off the back of the raindrop at an angle, hit the back again and then come out through us and it disperses into a spectrum. So sometimes you'll be able to see it in an airplane. If you're very, very lucky, you'll see the rain full circle. Rainbow. Wow. Yeah, I don't. That would be. Have you ever seen it? Yeah. Sensational. Qualifications, physics degree. I'll do. Round of applause for Suggie, please. That's a lovely answer. I knew that. I knew it. I bet that's in the board game, that one. I bet we've had that before. I just slips out the back. Yeah. I know we've actually done this on mystery out, but I think there's a finite nature. Names. I think. I don't know what age you are when you haven't got room for any more names in your memory. And so you either have to start trying to forget some people so that you can free up some space for some new names, or you. You spend quite a lot of time often working with people and their names just aren't registering with you in the same way that they would have done once. Now, is that because your memory is weakening or because it's full? That's not a mystery. I'm just. Just sharing. 1255. Matt's in, folks. The Matt. Question or answer? Oh, hello, James. Oh, hello, Matt. Hello. Happy Christmas. Same to you, too. Yeah, thank you. Yeah. It's a question. We haven't got much time, have we? No, that's true. Carry on. Okay. So why is it whenever I. No matter how neatly I fold away and put away my cables in a drawer. Yeah. Whenever I open the drawer, they come out all tangled up. Are you sure about that? Yeah. They don't know they're not tangled the first time you open it after doing it. It. They are not. They get. Because you go into it and you're thinking, oh, they're still quite tidy and so you don't notice it and you take one out and possibly you put it back and then you cross a sort of rubicon of entanglement, and that's the point at which you notice that they have become re tangled. But they don't. They cannot. They cannot tangle themselves in a closed drawer. Well, I might do a little bit of mild rummaging. Yes, there it is, you see? It's the mild rummaging that causes so many problems. Problems, Matt, in so many areas of life. Indeed, indeed. But that I put it on the board. Why do our cables get tangled in a drawer? Because there might be an answer that's a bit more scientific than mine. But they cannot. It's like a locked room mystery. They cannot be tangling themselves in a closed drawer. I think they are. String theory. String theory. Would that explain. Yes, string. String theory may come close to explaining it, but I have a feeling that neither of us know what string theory is, man. No, I'll leave it on the board. The tangled cables, that great prog rock band from the early 1970s, I think they supported deep purple, didn't they, at Wembley once? Why do cables get tangled in a closed drawer? Margaret's in Soho. Margaret, question or answer? An answer. Hello, James. Hello. Nice to speak to you again. Likewise. What have we got? Yes, total solar eclipses. Yes. Right, just briefly, the Earth. The moon's orbit around the Earth doesn't follow strictly over the equator, and it is elliptical. Yes. It's not perfectly circular. And together with the moon, our orbit around the sun isn't perfectly circular, it's elliptical. So in order to get a total solar eclipse, the three have to line up quite precisely. And that happens somewhere in the world about once every year, or 18 months. The last one was in Western Australia in April, and the next one will be in United States and Mexico in April as well. So the thing is, because the orbits are elliptical, sometimes the moon, when it's over the. Lined up with the earth, between the earth and the sun, is slightly further away, and sometimes it's closer. So you don't always get a total eclipse. Sometimes you get what are called annular eclipses. If the moon is further away from us in respect. In relation to the sun, then it doesn't cover the entire. So it's not. It's not some miraculous geometric. Geometrical miracle that Gerard was just laws of physics, basically. Also the earth, the moon, is actually spiraling away from us. Is it? Because. Yes, about an inch or so a year, almost, frankly, just Britain or the whole world. The thing is on. Buzz and Neil left mirrors on the surface of the moon when they went up on Apollo eleven. And there's been a bloke in Texas ever since pinging a laser off the mirrors. Off the mirrors. And that's how we've measured over the last 50 or 60 years that he's actually spiraling away. How much further away is it now from when they landed on the moon? Oh, blimey. You do the math. An inch or so. No chance. No chance. Right. Sheila's got it covered. I met Buzz Aldrin once. Sheila knows. How far away are the mirrors now? Or is that it? A bit further. They are a bit further, apparently, Margaret. Quite a bit further. Yeah. Yeah. Qualifications? Um, I chase total solar eclipses. Do you how much of your life has taken up chasing total solar eclipses? Well, um, it provides a journey once or once every year or a couple of years to some far flung place. Well, I've only seen five. It's not bad. But some of my pals are clocked up over, over 30. So there's a community. Yeah, there is. Once you've seen one, you are addicted. You've got to go and see the next one. I guarantee it. But anyway, slightly, a round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. And I think probably a mystery ball game as well, don't you? It's not quite a solo eclipse because she talked herself out of a ray Liotta by telling us that there are people who've seen 30 odd of them. So I think I'm going to give Margaret the ball game because she brought so much to the table. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back to the whole show. Podcast on Global Player, where you can also pause and rewind. Live radio. All LBC shows are there, as well as the world's biggest podcast. Pause and rewind. Live radio on global player, where you're always in control. Download it from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. It's free. Tom Sawbrick with you at four. Also free. And now on LBC, it's time for Sheila Fergity.