Can kangaroos swim?

I agree with Andy. Three minutes after twelve, an hour away from all the politics and negativity in the world. James, bring on mystery hour. I love Thursdays. You and me both. If you're not familiar with this feature, modesty aside, I think you're in for a bit of a treat. If you are, then grab your. And you've got a good question. Grab your place on the switchboard. Now there's a lot of, as you know, sorting the wheat from the chaff. But I thought Caroline was exaggerating sometimes when she tells me about the pour quality of some of the questions that she has to field. But I just popped into the production office and heard somebody on the line asking why people of colour don't get white tattoos. So I know I've said it out loud now everyone's going to think that's a really good. It's a stupid question. This is why we're not going to do it. If you've got a question that's less stupid than that, you know what to do. If you don't, I'll tell you in a minute. By in a minute, I mean after the boom, boom, boom, which has just happened. So I'll tell you now. You know those newspaper articles that are quite jolly, where a reader will write in and say, why do we do this? When I was traveling through Cornwall last summer, I noticed that the local blacksmith had a dirty dir in his doo du duty. What's that all about? Or what is the origin of this? Or where does that come from? Or why doesn't that happen? Any question at all, as long as it's sort of reasonable and almost certain to have an answer. And then about two weeks later, the readership of the organ supply answers and eventually you get to a definitive one and everyone goes away happy. This is lovely. This is lovely because this is live. This happens right before your very ears. You can answer to whatever question you ask by 01:00 today. If you don't join in, that's fine. 1990s people always forget this massive 99% of people who listen to a program like this will never ring in. It's quite remarkable. But Mister Howard gives you an opportunity to perhaps do so in circumstances a little different from the daily cut and thrust. The point is that even if you don't ring in, if you don't get involved at all, the two guarantees I make, usually at 12:00 on a Thursday, are that you will know more than you do now because you listen to other people, ask questions and have them answered, you will know more than you do now. By 01:00 today might not be knowledge you're grateful for, might not be knowledge you ever put to any use whatsoever. It might not even be knowledge you can recall by 01:15 today, but by 01:00 today, you will know more than you currently do. And you usually get a belly laugh as well. Although, given the backdrop that Andy's just described, I'm a little reluctant to actually put a cash guarantee on that at the moment. Let's guarantee a chuckle. A guarantee, a chuckle and three smiles between now and 01:00. If you don't get them, I shall give you the money myself. Who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence, wherefore, any question you want. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you hear me say the number, like what I just did, it means I've got at least one phone line free into the building. You won't get through right now, but that doesn't mean you won't in two minutes time, because a lot of people might be asking tattoo type questions, in which case Caroline will very politely, very politely, invite them to move along and free up the phone line for somebody else. And that is pretty much it, isn't it? I think if I've forgotten anything, you'll get a round of applause. If you get it right, I'll ask what your qualifications are. That doesn't mean you need to tell me about your bag of gymnastics award for or your cycling proficiency from Stourport police station in 1984. It just means that I need to know how you know the thing that you just told me. And that could be either, oh, it was my PhD thesis, funnily enough, James. Or I saw it on the telly last night. Anything. Just how you know the thing you know that you've just told us. You're not allowed to look anything up because we're trying to celebrate knowledge, enlightenment, education, old fashioned issues, facts, evidence, all that sort of thing that's going out of fashion faster than flairs. And is there any other rules? Dullness. Dullness and repetition. If the question is boring, we won't take it. Management's decision is final. And if it's something that we've answered before, and I can remember answering it before, but I'm not going to lie to you, memory is not what it was, then you'll probably be politely invited to jog along as well. You can check our archive. I've just tweeted it from my account. So if you follow me on Twitter, Mr. Jamesob, or indeed LBC itself, you can find a link to the archive that is really, really good fun, actually. But that's enough from me. Let's crack on. Jed's in Wigan. Jed, question or answer? Question, James, please. Good man. It's about snowflakes. Politically or meteorologically? Meteorologically. Go on. I've just sort of changed the. I was watching a documentary on Yellowstone National Park a couple of weeks ago and it was showing snowflakes forming in the air. It said, no tour alike, they're all hexagonal and each segment is always symmetrical. And I was wondering, how does each arm know what the other arm's doing so well? Obviously it doesn't. I mean. So the question needs to be slightly finessed, doesn't it? No, I'm actually looking at some at the moment. Yeah, I know, but it doesn't know it's a piece of frozen water. It can't know anything, let alone what the other bit of frozen water a millimetre away is doing. You. What? This is exactly what I thought. Great minds, Jed. Great minds. But the fact is that when you look at them, they're always symmetrical and they're always different. There's arms with branches coming off and branches coming off and branches coming off. So the question. The question is, why are snowflakes symmetrical? It's not. How does one arm know what the other arm's doing? Is it's also a bit out. Yeah. How it does it. How does it know? It doesn't know. Snowflakes don't know anything. Sounds like I've been reading some of my tweets. All right, all right. I can answer, though. I'll do my best. How come snowflakes are symmetrical? You can get your head around. Why? No two are alike more easily than you can get your head around. How each one is, it's like a kind of. You fold a piece of paper in half and print the other side. It's perfectly reflective of each side. It's. Symmetrical is the word that you used. I think that was probably the best one available. Jed. Nice work. You're on the list. Snowflakes thought we're going to leave snowflakes alone for at least an hour, but there we go, kicking off mystery hour with 112 o nine is the time. If you know the answer to that. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you've got a question of your own, the question remains the same. I haven't spoken to enough women today, so just purely discriminatory political correctness gone mad. You can go to the front of the queue if you're female. Yesterday we got it right. Loads of female callers on politics. We get loads and loads of female callers on other issues. I just like to mix things up a bit. I think of myself as a party host when I'm on the. And if it's all blokes or all women, it's not much fun. Mark's in Hatfield. No pressure, Mark. Question or answer? I'd like to know if kangaroos can swim, James. Why? Well, it's a bit like a wobbly, wibbly wobbly man. You know, you imagine they get in the water but they haven't got front legs, really. So how do they just sing? Well, they can box. They've got quite powerful upper limbs even though they're not as big as their lower limbs. Yeah, but there's programs where you see sloths swimming and other bizarre animals. But I love this. If we ever did a book of mistrow, this would be one of the questions, wouldn't it? Although this might be the title. Can kangaroos swim? I thought the question on snowflakes was pretty good. Yeah, but that's not. It's going to look rubbish on a front cover. Why are snowflakes symmetrical? Can kangaroos swim? That'll make you buy the book. You're on. Let's see what we can do. And what will you do with this knowledge if we manage to unearth it for you? I will go back to dinner tonight and have the conversation with my children because we couldn't get the answer the other day when we were discussing it. Oh, lovely, lovely, lovely. And then if that does happen, then my work here will be complete. 1211 is the time. 0345. You know the number. Helen is in Harrow. Question or answer, Helen. It's a question. Yes. Hi, James. Hello, Helen. Hi, James. This is on behalf of my daughter, who's 14 and she's been wanting me to ask this for weeks and we keep forgetting to ring in when it's the school holiday. Okay, so you're doing it during term time? Well, yeah, we can. We can do it another time with a different question, but let's get this one done for right, okay. Her question is, if you have two identical girl twins, marry two identical boy twins. Yeah. Will their children be identical? Will the cousins be identical? Be gentle, James. Be gentle. Does. What's your daughter's name? Helen. Zoe. Does Zoe have any siblings? Yes, she's got three brothers. And are they all identical? No, but their parents are genetically the same. They've got the same genetic parents, all three of them. I know, but we're not twins, are we? No, but you're suggesting that two people with the same genetic inheritance would have identical children, but that you and your husband wouldn't have children that were identical to each other, despite the fact that they only have the same genetic inheritance as each other. You're confusing me. No, I know I am. Right. Let me try again. So you think that two twins would have, if two boy twins and two girl twins, all identical, that all their children would be identical? That is as logical as thinking that all your children would be identical. In fact, it's slightly less logical than thinking that all your children would be identical. Do you see why? Yes, but this is a 14 year old girl after. Don't pass the buck, mum. All right? Because you should have told her. You should have laughed at her. Be gentle, Helen. You should have said to yourself, while slowly revealing the. I won't say idiocy because she's only 14. The foolishness. The foolishness of her question. Her 16 year old brother's listening to this and he's probably laughing his head on. He's getting ammunition. He's getting ammunition galore. No, he'll tell her that James O'Brien called her an idiot. I didn't call her an idiot. I called her foolish. It's a very big difference that. Idiots. Not a word that we allow in our house. My children are still a little young, younger than yours. But I love the question because it does have the kind of plausibility to it. Yeah, you can understand where she's. But it would be all three. I mean, because you, your three boys have got the same mum and dad. So when those two chromosome, when the X and the Y mix, if identical twins were going to have identical children, then all of your children would be identical. And that is the answer. So the answer is no, they wouldn't be identical. You've got a doctor. You've got a doctor, mate. Let's not embarrass ourselves seriously. Just take that to the. No, no, Helen, this. Don't do this, Helen. No, it's not definitive. So you've got. Right, so you've got two parents. Yes, we'll call, we'll call, we'll call. One X and one Y. So, x. What do you mean? Properly? I've got a bsc. No, you haven't. I want to ask who studies. I don't know. Genetics and chromosomes, etcetera, to ring it. That would be like asking Gordon Ramsay to scoop out some ice cream. No, my daughter will say, why? What does James O'Brien know? How does she not listen to the show? I know everything. All right. Okay, I'll get you a proper answer, but I'm gonna take the. I'm gonna take the round of applause as soon as I've said goodbye to you. All right? Have a great day. Goodbye, Helen Travel. This is LBC. I'll solve one mystery for you. Apparently Diane Abbott had a migraine last night. That's why she couldn't vote in the article 50 vote questions we have on the board so far. Why are snowflakes symmetrical? This is a reference to the meteorological phenomenon of snowflakes, not the name given to nice people. Can kangaroos swim? And Helen's staffed question about twins that she wants a proper answer to, which somehow is different from my completely correct one. If two sets of identical twins get married, will their children be identical to each other? Apparently my answer wasn't sufficiently comprehensive. Unbelievable. Trevor is in rugby. Trevor, question or answer? Okay, it's an answer. Bring it on, Trevor. Okay. Kangaroos can swim. Yes. How do you know? In 1989, I was hitchhiking all over Australia and along down the side of Western Australia, I was hitchhiking down there and there was a tropical storm following us down the coast. Oh, yeah. And at night all the kangaroos tend to huddle on the road because it's a bit warmer, because it's absorbed the heat during the day onto the tarmacadam. Makes sense. All sort of all over the road. And there was a massive downpour and we came over a bit of a hill, down into a dip that was all full of water. Yeah. There were kangaroos swimming all over the place, trying to get out of the water. Had you, had you. Had you had a few stubbies? Absolutely not. You were as sober as a judge, were you, Trevor? In fact, I was trying to keep the driver from doing exactly that. To prevent the driver from getting. Getting leathered? Absolutely. I have a memory, weirdly, of one of those viral videos involving a kangaroo having a swim around a swimming pool in Australia. Okay. Like, you know, a wild kangaroo got into someone's garden and went for a dip in the pool. That. That is an answer of rare beauty, Trevor. Marvelous. This is for you. Oh, thank you very much. That's got it. That's got it. Yeah. Today. Can I say that's it? Thank you very much indeed. Apparently there's a very interesting question about whether or not kangaroos can, um. No, I can't say that on the radio. Ellen is in Edinburgh. Ellen, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Why is it that light bulbs only seem to blow when you turn them on, as opposed to sort of popping out halfway through? Yeah, well, I've seen them blow. I've seen them blow mid shine, whatever the technical term is. But you're right. Usually you flick the switch and you hear the ping. Yeah. And your whole house goes dark. It does if it's well wired. It didn't used to, did it? It didn't used to sort of kick back to the circuit board. Yeah. Why did light bulbs fuse when you turn them on and not. Not. But they do, though? Some. Somewhat. But so much of the time it's when you flick the switch. It'd be something to do with the power surge. But there's no earthly way I'm going to be able to convince you that I know the definitive answer, is there? No. No. All right, I'll leave it on the board. Why do light bulbs only blow when you turn them on? Not while they are on it? Maybe change. Mostly. Only for mostly. But still the question stands. Snowflakes, twins, light bulbs. Mark is in Walthamstow. Mark, question or answer? Hey. Question. James. Carry on, Mark. Well, going back in time when they made musical instruments like harpsichords and that, they tuned things. Yeah. Well, it was only tuned to that person's ear. But all the notes around the world, the C major or C minor, whatever, is agreed. But how do they agree what a note should sound like? Yeah, you may need to. You may need. Do you want me to be polite or honest? Mark, make sure he's all right, will you? Nails an edgeware. Question or answer, Neil? Um, challenge, actually. What? Yeah, I'm challenging your twins thing. Oh, shut up. You're not. Yeah, I've got identical twin sons, so I'm very well qualified in this and. Well, matching wives at nurseries is not an easy job. No, but if they. No. No way. I'm gonna freak you out here. Go on. Technically. Technically, yeah, sons or. Sorry, technically children of identical twins that get married. Art siblings. Technically. Genetically, yeah, I can buy that. But they're not identical. Siblings would be your brother. Yeah, but not. You're not going to look like him any more than you're going to look like you're your more conventionally defined brother. We're talking about identical, as in the technical term for identical. Not whether you look like somebody identically. So genetically they'd have the same DNA, in fact. No, no, no, that's not what she meant. That's not what she meant. The question was, if two twin ladies get married to two twin men, will their children be identical to each other? Will the cousins be identical? Now, you're correct to say that, genetically speaking, they'll have the same status as siblings, but they're not going to be identical unless. Unless the egg splits. And they can never be identical to each other because that would involve two egg splitting in two different people in a theoretical universe. How dare you challenge me on this? I'm not having that question. What you're having and not having what? Why would man alive. Have you got any other children? Yes, a little girl. Why don't we? She looks a bit like the twins, yeah? Yeah, but only a bit because they're siblings, not twins. Correct. So if your boys did have children with two identical twins, the two children would look similar, but they would not look identical. No, but I thought you meant identical as in the actual term of identical. No, she meant. She meant identical as in the appearance of identity, as in I look like Bruce Willis. That sort of thing getting on? You and me both, mate. I look like Chris Pratt, apparently. Someone was telling me yesterday, I can't believe he kept a straight face. Um. I'm not. I'm not. I don't know what to do. Politely or. I mean, just go away. You're not getting a round of applause for that, pal. Okay? Not in a million years. All right? It's better than Mark's question. Ron's in Wormley. Wrong question or answer? It's a question. Please, young man. Carry on. Ronald, listen, do you seagulls send out scouts looking for food? Because I have one circling around. If I throw bread on the garage roof, within 15 minutes, I get about 20 odd. So do they send out one scout looking for food? Well, I mean, what happens? What does the one do? The one that's there circling around? No. And then you chop. Then you chuck some bread out? Yeah. And he comes down. No, he doesn't. All of a sudden, about 15 minutes later, there's about 20 of them come down for the food. He must go and tell them or something. Well, I mean, Occam's razor would suggest that you've already answered your own question, but you want to have it confirmed by a. By a naturalist or an ornithologist or some such or whatever they're called. You must know seagull scouts. Do seagulls send out scouts? They must do, otherwise there's no other real explanation for what you've just described to us. But you need. You need a definitive answer to the question. I would like it. I will do my best for you, Ronald. Thank you very much indeed. Mind how you go. 1226 is the time. Do the. Do seagulls send out scouts? We'll try it. Mark's question. Who came up with the musical notation system? There you go, mate. That's all you needed to say. That business about artsy chords. Why do light bulbs usually ping when you turn them on and not when they're mid shine? I'm going to leave the twins question here, but only because I'm such a democrat. And why are snowflakes symmetrical? Andy is in Waterford in Ireland. Andy. Question or answer, James? It's an answer. Carry on. Well, first of all, you're absolutely correct on the twin sink. Thank you very much. Yes, it's obvious, really. Well, of course. Anyway. Anyway, a light bulb, right? An ordinary, standard light bulb, not an led one. You know, one of your old fashioned light bulbs. Yeah. Consists of a little coil of wire right. Inside the. Inside the glass bulb. Yeah. And when you switch it on, an electric current passes through it and it heats up and then it glows because it's heating up, but because there's no air inside the globe, it doesn't burn away, it just glows. Right, yeah. Hot, yeah. Now, when you heat that little tiny little coil of wire up, of course the first thing it does is expands. It's metal. It expands, yeah. With heat, right, yeah. And if there's anything wrong with it or it's a bit old or, you know, it's faulty or, you know, you've had it for five years, that movement is when it's going to fracture. Ah. So, you know, after a while, you know, the best wood in the world, light bulbs. Last couple of years. After a while, all the heating and cooling and expanding and contracting makes it. Makes it brittle and sooner or later you'll switch it on and that will be the last time, that little piece of wire. Because it's only going to ping. Excuse me? It's only going to ping when the process of expansion begins and the fracture or the floor in the filament. Oh, the floor in the filament. The floor. The fracture in the filament. That sounds like the beginning of a song. The fracture in the filament will. Will break only when it begins. The process of expansion when it moves. Qualifications, Andrew? Well, I'm an electronics engineer. You can have a round of applause. No, thank you. Not quite a Ray Liotta, I think we can all agree. 1228 not quite, but that's the direction we like to move in. Justin's in Marylebone. Question or answer? Justin. Question. Carry on. Why does the financial year begin and end in April? Oh, come on. Come on what? Come on. I mean, talking to myself, mate, not you. I know this. It's not there. I've not got it. I've not got it. I will, it's on the board. Have you done your tax return? So that's a fine there. Right there. Right there. That's a fine right there. I've got my friend doing it. Jonathan. Yeah, well, tell him to get his skates on. It should have been in three days ago. It's 1229. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why does the financial year end in April? Do seagulls have scouts? I love it when mister comes together like this. Sound like Hannibal Smith. Now, the origin of musical notation. I think we've done that before. Light bulbs. We've done twins. I'm very tempted to cross off the list unless there is actually a full on hardcore geneticist listening who will ring in and tell me that I'm right, all wrong. And why. A snowflake. Symmetrical. How does that work? How does it actually happen? It's coming out to 12:30. You can answer any of those. Zero. 345-606-0973 or indeed, if you have a song of your own. A song of your own. If you have a question of your own. The number remains the same. It's 12:30. Simon Conway is here now with the headlines. The archbishop of Canterbury has told LBC he was completely unallc. It is 1233. I love that. I've never met that fella. I was shaking by the hand one day, the way he says mystery, Harry, it's like treacle. It's like melted chocolate pouring down your ear canals. Questions that still need answers. Why does the financial year end in April? Do seagulls send out scouts who first did musical notation? And how come snowflakes are symmetrical? Marcus is in Dundee. Marcus, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Yeah, hopefully we can bring some harmony to my household. I'm trying to find out what a tog actually is. In terms of duvets? Yeah, yeah, in terms of duvets and misses. Taylor quite likes a thick duvet and I like a thin one. If I've got a bit of ammunition, I can take two. Next time we buy one, hopefully I'll get my way. It's cause of some tension in our household as well. Marcus. I have to confess, I'd say the duvet decision when to change from the summer to the winter. Duvet is pretty fractious. Pretty fractious. It's just a unit of. I know this, actually. If I get it slightly wrong, then. Forgive me, but I don't think I will. Please help. It's a unit. It's like asking what an amp is, or a volt, or a degree centigrade. It's a unit of measurement. A unit of. I think I get that it's a unit, but I'll tell you what it's a unit of. It's the thermal. I think the word, weirdly isn't insulation, but is insulin. Thermal? Insulins. Oh, come on, mate. You're only allowed one question. It's. It's. It's the thickness. I think they measure it backwards, so it's how much heat gets through it. But isn't a tog free. Thinner than a 15 apart. Isn't it, now? Yeah. What's the tog? I should have just taken the question and left it on the board. So I thought. Feeling a bit light on the old rounds of applause at the moment. What is a tog? And. And, I mean, what. What are you purchasing? What are you looking at next? Well, I want a thin one, as simple as that. I like it nice and cold on an evening with the window open. Yeah, me too. And misses Taylor likes it like, you know, like a sauna. Yeah, it drives me potty. I wake up in the middle of the night and it's like. It's like a roman bar. Well, all right. Anyway, maybe we should sleep. No, that's not going to work at all. What is a toll for Marcus? Please. Carl's in Coventry. Carl. Question or answer? I've got an answer. Go on. It's to the twins. It's not quite that. Who put you through? Who put you through? Was it Rosie or Caroline? So his heads are going to roll? I'm not sure. Go on, then. Okay. Well, we had two large families, my mum and dad's side. And on one side we had two brothers and a sister. Married two sisters and a brother on the other side. So they had seven children. So those seven children, all cousins, have exactly the same bloodlines and they all look completely different. Yes. However. However, all seven have a really gummy smile. That's it. That doesn't really help with my quest at all. It's a lovely little bit of biographical information. So you had three. Three sets of parents? Yes, two families. There was nine children on one side and eight on another. Yeah, those nine. Three of them married, three from the other side of the. Wow. So all of my. Or a lot of my kids there. So, for example, one of my cousins, her mum is my mum's sister and her dad is my dad's brother, so exactly the same problem. I could never have a drink round yours. I could never have a drink around yours, because as soon as you start, that's. My head's already gone and I'm stone cold sober. My dad is. What? Who? Hey. Oh, well, I'm going to give you a round of applause, in fact. Do we get a radio? No, we don't get a radio. I've got to be sparing with her. I have a round of applause, Carl, with my gratitude. Thank you. I was right about the twins. Adams in south End. Question or answer? Adam. Hi, James. I've answered your call. I'm a geneticist. To confirm your theory. Can you prove that you're a geneticist because you struggled to say it a moment ago. I've got a degree in genetics from the University of Liverpool. Carry on. So you're 99.9% right? Yeah. The fact is, as any parent will tell you, having children, whether you're identical to someone else having children, there's still no guarantee whether you can even have a boy or a girl. Exactly. So there's your first thing. Secondly, all genes come with what are called alleles. The easiest way to describe that is with eye color. So there's dominant ones, co dominant and recessive. Like, it's commonly known that blue eyes are recessive. So if you have one blue eye allele from one parent, one brown, brown is a dominant one, so you can have brown eyes. If you get two from two, it's going to be different. So even though you will have the same genes, you will not look the same, because all genes have variations called alleles. Now, the caveat to that is that, as with all things the genetic, it's random. And there is actually, although it's smaller than Jeremy Corder's chances of being voted Tory of the year crossover topic by topical. Go on. There is a chance that you could actually get identical children from two sets of twins marrying each other, but it's a vanishing chance. And there's no. As far as I'm aware, there's no recording case of ever happening. No. Well, not that I know of. No. We probably would have heard of it. Not that I've researched it extensively in any way, shape or form. Hang on, you're a geneticist. What do you do all day? It was mostly about cows in my day. Was it? Do you. Do you practice? I mean, did you use your degree professionally? No. No. What did. What did you do for a little. What do you do for a living? I sell sausages for a living. I don't know why. I just had. You know, sometimes you get a little inkling. I don't know why. Obviously, selling sausages for a living is funny. Right. You know that you're a sausage seller. Sausage seller, yeah. The other part of that is I also have a law degree as well. A law degree and a genetics degree. And you sell sausages for a living? Well, if you ever have. No, I can't go. I can't. I can't watch. Have a round of applause. There's a splitting of an already fertilized embryo. So, as Rob points out, he's a birth and concentration trauma therapist. It's the only time you'll ever have identical DNA. Everything else also just sort of undergoes random mixing. But Adam's perspective was from the other end. And bang on the money. 1239. I told you, Helen. Helen and Zoe. I told you. 16 year old brother still listening. Make sure they know, mate. Make sure they know. Matthew is in Ashford. Matthew. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. And just for the record, I just had my laugh out loud moment that I sell sausages for a living. That was brilliant. Me too. Very unexpected. It was, wasn't it? The answer is the one about the tax year. Oh, yeah. Why does it end in April? I did look this up years ago, and the details are a bit vague, so I completely respect you if you decide that it can't go definitive on this. But as I remember, it goes something like this. Taxia used to be at the beginning of January, as most other years are counted from. But it moved at the point that our calendars went into line with the gregorian calendar, with Rome, I think. I thought Rome had a role in this, I must be honest with you. So you're moving in the right direction, I think. And as far as I remember, because the crown didn't want to lose it was about a three months discrepancy, or three or four months discrepancy. And in order to not lose the tax revenues for those three or four months, rather than just make January the first, or rather than shift that three months and lose the revenue for that, they just shifted the tax year to the beginning of April instead. And then subsequently, there were leap years that got in the way and they moved it for each leap year until some eventually it was decided, sod this. This is a daft idea. And fixed it, and it ended up being April 5. I think you were very modest when you suggested that your answer might not be completely definitive, but also very honest. However, it's very vague. I'm so. Well, I'm so dismayed by the thought of someone else trying to explain it on top of that that I'm going to give you the round of applause and close the chapter on this one. Well, if anyone challenges me, then I'm very happy to share that this is outbreak of graciousness. Snowflakes 1242 is the time Peter is in Ottershaw. Or answer, Peter. It's an answer, James. Carry on, Peter. It's notation. Someone you may have heard of called JS Bach. He standardized all notation and in fact, published a series of volumes called the well tempered Clavier, which is the evenly tuned keyboard. Published two sets of prelusive fused in every key twice, a few toccatas as well. Yeah, indeed. And if you go to an orchestral concert, every note has a different resonance. So if you go to an orchestral concert, you'll find that the orchestra tunes up to what we call an a and the note a in the middle of the stave beats at 440 beats per second. And that is the sort of standard from which all other notes are related by tone or semitone. And what happened before Bach did this? Well, I mean, it would have been to somebody, you know, a bit hit or miss. Well, it can be a bit of hit and miss, but, I mean, there are, I mean, certain musicians. I'm not one of them. But you do get certain musicians who we call perfect pitch, and they. If you say, sing me an a, they'll sing you an a. Are you a musician? I am. That is your qualification? Royal Academy music and conductor. Are you serious? You're a conductor? Yes. Ah, that's one of the coolest things. How. How quickly, if I started conducting an orchestra and I was completely winging it, making it up as I go along, how quickly would the orchestra twig? Orchestras aren't stupid. I mean, you know, they didn't need. You don't need someone like me to tell them how to count up to four or three. But I can keep time and I could wave my hands in a rhythmic fashion and I can do the face. Peter, can you do the face? Peter, can you do the face? I can really do the face. Not good reggae, isn't it? You know, it's a very good point, but how long? So I'd like I do this. I'd go like that. And then I'm off. Okay. And I'm conducting. How long before the orchestra trigger. I'm just making it up as I go along. Well, you must have seen these awful sort of awful programs on television with. Oh, yes, I have. Yes, of course, you're right. They did a reality tv show and the orchestra will get themselves out of trouble if they've got an idiot standing in front of them. Then they'll need to be rude, mate, I'm just having a bit of fun to call me an idiot. I'm just having a bit of fun here. I love your answer. Thank you, Peter. It is. It's becoming a tradition, this I have to share with you. The contribution to mystery are from one of my broadcasting heroes, Mister Chris Evans. He's pointed out that the description that we heard from the Australian, from the fellow who'd been backpacking in Australia, says, how'd you know? The kangaroos. They may have been unsuccessfully drowning as opposed to swimming. This is quite a good point, actually. I don't know. The round of applause has already been issued. 1245. Joanne Webb is in the LBC travel center. Thanks, James. Good afternoon. So, two problems on the m 23. Nearly there. Question still in need of answers. Does Seagull send out scouts? The tog. What's a tog like? Properly, to explain it in the context of duvets. Why are snowflakes symmetrical? And a couple of others as well that might have slipped off the board. Martin is in wood green. Question or answer, Martin? Well, hopefully answer, James. Carry on, snowflake. Yeah. The answer is, a snowflake has no other choice but to be symmetrical. Come on. Well, as it's falling, it's going to have pressures that work on it equally, all sides. The temperature that affects it is going to affect it equally as it falls and the air pressure against it. So as one arm forms, the same pressure that's making that arm form is affecting the opposing side in the exact same way. So it has no other choice but to form in a symmetrical pattern. Why would. I mean, surely one side would be nearer the sun than the other side? No, but the sun isn't going to affect a small droplet of water, is it? Not on a cold winter's day. It's not going to have enough energy to affect it. What are your qualifications? Occam's razor is my qualification on this one. I can't give it to you then, can I? No. I know stuff that's even worse than Occam's. Razor. I saw it once on a documentary and now you're lying. I'm right though. I suspect you are but you know how it works mate. You've got to go definitive. You can't go definitive with it with a. With a. Yeah, yeah, because I. Because I am definitive. You're not definitive. Get Cal through line one quickly. Line one, line one, line one. Stay there Martin, stay there. Seriously, I'm coming back to you in 1 minute. I'm just going to take another answer from Andy who's in Medway. Question or answer Andy? Answer please James. Bring it on mate. Yeah it's a seagull one. Do they send out scouts? Yes, yes they do. What it is they don't, they're flying around. The scout he's flying around in but going forward obviously in a 360 degree motion. Yeah, right up above the out of eyesight is most of the female birds and they're do send a signal back and this scout, they call it a dodman, the one that's flying around in 360. A dodman. And where are the girl birds? Where are the girl birds in the time being? They're up above. Oh above. They're also flying in the forward motion but 360 degrees. And then the dodman, he sends a signal back. How? How does he send a signal back? Ah, Sonic I suppose. Ah no seriously, I am being serious. That's the kind of signal he sends will have a cry won't he? A sort of cry or something. I'm not a fisherman or anything like that. Why are you, how do you know this? What are your qualifications? Actually I'll make the skin for the sausages but. Oh no, we're going to lose the phone line. We should have put you in touch. What? Can you hear me? How do you know, what are your qualifications? Andy? An old girlfriend told me. Have you just done that whole thing to set up that gag? Yeah, I'll give him a round of applause. An old golf friend top. But that's just genius. 1253 is the time. Professor Hal is here. Martin, stay where you are. Professor Hal. Snowflakes, what have we got? Hello Jane. Yeah, snowflakes. I was just sitting here and I just couldn't help but challenge some of what was being said about it. Yeah, by Martin talking nonsense. Well I wasn't going to say that you said it but yeah, popcorn, fingerprints and snowflake things which apocryphally no tour alike with snowflakes. It actually is to do with thermodynamics. It's all to do with crystals forming. And effectively, a snowflake starts with the seed, a little bit of dust or a little bit of ice, upon which subsequent bits of water or molecules of water will fit in to where they fit in best. And it's. The best example is tessellations. Do you remember doing tessellations in GCSE maths? Yeah. Patterns which expand, making ever greater patterns, but it's always the same repeating patterns. Oh, yeah, tessellations. Yeah, those tessellations. Yeah. If you're laying. I was going to mix up a crenellations. I don't know what they are. The bits on castles that go up and down, you know, like those square y bits where you can slip it in between with your bow and arrow. Oh, I see. No, no, sorry. Okay. No, but, yeah, tessellations. So it's all to do with thermodynamics and it's that. Well, then Martin said it has no choice, then. So taking the seed, the variables that determine it, you describe as thermodynamics. He's kind of right, then. No, I don't think so. He was saying, oh, there's a bit of pressure on one side, temperature on the other side. But is thermodynamics not the posh way of describing that? No, thermodynamics is actually quite a specific chemistry and physics, which basically says that a system will always try and find the lowest order, and effectively, each subsequent ice will. You know you're seeing other people while you're talking to me. Who. What's that noise in the background? That was my iPhone saying some BBC interest rates notification. Oh, hang on back to Martin. Martin, mate, you're getting owned. No, because basically what we've got there is woo woo, woo woo. Ockham's razor. I'm right, I'm gonna give it to. He's a professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, mate. Yeah, he just said big words and it sounds posh and we just have to agree. Exactly. No, he did. I get it. It's all about thermodynamics, isn't it, you prune round of applause for how 1255 is the tide. Only problem with that. Bance. I can't say bance, I'm 45 years old. The only problem with that is that I just need a moment to refill the phones. Melvin's in lab, Brook Grove. Melvin, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Before I tell you what it is, do you want to know how I know? Because I. It's the answer to the duvet question and togs. What is a tog? A tog is basically the rate of ferbal resistance between one side of duvet and the other. So the amount of time it takes for heat to dissipate. Yeah. And I think it's measured in Watts, if I remember correctly. Watts? Yeah. Watts is in the energy of Watts qualifications. I read it in the duvet section at Ikea. It's actually got it off in the signs and it says, what is a tod? And you know when you get dragged around there and you don't want to be there. How old are you? How old are you? Have you got any children? What? Did. Did you ever like going to Ikea? No. I used to. There's a period early in my marriage when I loved it. Now it's like the 7th circle of hell, but I can't. I've never quite pinned it down. What happened? I loved it when I played and I was getting new furniture. Yeah, was. It was fantastic, actually. But since then it's like, oh, not again. Do you know why that is? Go on. I think I've worked it out, Melvin. It's because you and I, we are nest builders, my friend. We are not nest decorators. I think you've hit your nail on the head, mate. I need you nailed the tog. So you get a round of applause. 1257 is the time. Matt is in Soho. Question or answer, Matt? Question. You'll be lucky. It's 1257. Sheena Fogarty's already here. Go on. Right, so. Shit. Are female, planes are female. What are buildings? Do they have a female? We've got a minute to get you an answer. I don't think so. A palace. Would you say she, he a palace or a castle? I don't know, but the buildings have genders in the way that some vehicles do. Brian is in Hampstead. Brian, question or answer? Answer. What's happening? Yeah, carry on. Sorry. My car radio in the background. Sorry. I'd rather you had it on. I mean, turn it off when you're talking to me. But if you didn't have it on in the first place, it's highly unlikely you would have come through with an answer to a question that was asked half an hour ago. Exactly. The tax year. You know, you close. Yeah. Why does it end in April? Yeah, he was nearly right. But not quite. It was the case that rent was paid on quarter days. So everybody paid their rent on 25 March, 25 June, 25 September, 25 December. When they changed the calendars, they lost eleven days when they moved from the Julian to the Gregorian so the 25 march then became the 6 April to protect the revenue. Those eleven days. Yeah. Okay. That makes perfect sense. I mean, I did say at the time that I wasn't going to take another answer to that because it kind of makes my eyelids heavy. But. But you've done it in a very neat and concise way, so you get this sort of sounded enthusiasm. Did we do everything this week? Did we miss anything out? I don't think we did. That was fantastic. Non definitive. That's it for me for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC been belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. Later on from three, a young transgender man is suing his school for discriminating against him. How should a school respond when a pupil says they are not the sex, that they are registered as two? Should killers who refuse to reveal where their victims remains are be denied parole forever? Almost 30 years ago, Helen McCourt was murdered at the age of 22. Her mother has been campaigning for this law. Helen's law, it's called. We'll talk about that after two. Coming up after the news. Donald Trump has called a refugee deal with Australia dumb and equated it to bringing in the Boston bombers. Meanwhile, here on LBC, Cardinal Vincent Nicholls urged us to make use of a government scheme and make friends with refugees so they become part of.