If you are a Sir can your partner have a title? - 25 Feb 16

Three minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is upon as your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial, or possibly anywhere else in the world. I would very unrealistically and optimistically suggest it's the radio equivalent of the newspaper and magazine features that you may be familiar with, the ones that allow you to ask a question and get an answer to it. The who, why, where, when, what, wherefore, whence, even the odd whither, why do we do this? Where does that come from? What's the origin of that? When that happens, why does that happen? Literally, almost anything goes. The only rules we have involve repetition and dullness. Repetition, kind of. That's our responsibility. Dullness is yours. If it's a question to which it's highly unlikely that a significant number of people listening to the program will also be interested in the answer to then do us all a favor and don't ask it. I know that sounds ungrateful, I know that sounds unfair, but Caroline and Megan, in the course of this hour, will answer more calls than most radio phone in programs do in the course of a week. In the course of this single hour they will be well over, well into the thousands of calls, and obviously they won't all get answered. And don't be put off by that statistic, because astonishingly, some people manage to get through on a regular basis, whereas some people email me weekly to complain that once again they failed to make the cut. I don't understand why I'm told that judicious use of redial is quite clever. And do bear in mind I'm telling you the truth when I say I only mention the number when I have a phone line free way things are going at the moment. Now that mister is bedded down, it does possibly hold true that for the first five minutes or so of the hour, quite a lot of people ringing in will be politely invited to move along, because we have dealt with that, and I can remember dealing with it. But obviously there's no reason why you should know that we've dealt with it before, because you haven't been listening to every single episode of Mystery Hour for the last however many years that I think constitutes the conclusion of our housework. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Otherwise, just, just listen and you'll work out how it goes. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same. Zero 345-606-0973 and you will get a mystery, a round of applause if you bring in an answer. Something to the satisfaction of the judging panel. Um. Me. Stephanie's in Bracknell. Stephanie, question or answer? Question. Carry on, Stephanie. Um, last summer I bought my granddaughter a tent. She's nine years. You can't. It's not. I'm not. I'm not coming around to help you put it up. It's not that kind of phone in show. All right. Well done. Carry on. Thanks. Um, we put it up. She had a big smile on her face, crawled inside, looked up, turned to me and said, grandma, why is it called a tent? A tent. Why is it called a tent? And what did grandma say? Um, I don't know, Alessia, but there's a man on the radio and I'll ask him. So I waited nearly twelve months. She's ready, almost ready for the tent to come out again. Touch wood. Soon it be tent. Tent be Latin, will it? Or something, don't you think? Shut up, James. You know, embarrass yourself as usual. So it will be something to do with another language that we've borrowed the term and the prep. But no, I'll shut up. My mind's going back to sort of Arabic. Yes. You still think tense? Tense? Sometimes I keep a caller on the line, Stephanie, as I'm sure you've noticed in the past, in the hope that as I waffle on and banter with them, enlightenment will settle upon my bony shoulders and deliver the correct answer to my cerebellum. But it's not going to happen today. I can tell. Stephanie. I will find out for you. Why do we call a ten to ten? 1207 is the time Sam is in Liverpool. Sam, question or answer? I've got a question, James. I was wondering if chewing gum was a good way of losing weight. Good. Gone. Well, when you're chewing, it's a repetitive use of a muscle like your jaw muscle. As an exercise. Just as an exercise point. Yeah. How much weight could you use doing that? I don't think that I'm going to take this question very seriously, Sam. Why not? You're not eating food, you're just using muscle. Ah, well, that's different. So if by chewing gum you exercise your metabolism into thinking that you are eating food, then you're probably going to burn energy that you wouldn't have burned otherwise. But that's not the exercise of chewing the gum, that's the kidding your tummy into thinking that you're eating food, it must use some energy. If you put. If you're hungry and you put some gum in your mouth and then you don't eat as a result of putting the gum in the mouth, then, ergo you're going to lose a bit of weight or be less big than you would have been if you'd eaten food. It's not exactly a mystery, is it? Saying he's chewing gum instead of eating a good way to lose weight, or if I eat blooming loaves, saying, if you like, eat regularly and sort of, you know, live a normal life. Who put this through? Who put Sam through? Who's going to take responsibility? Who's going to take responsibility for this one? I want Sam on a watch list. I genuinely insulted James. Don't. Stop pulling it with me, mate. It's not about punter power. Mystery hour, it's chewing gum, a good way to lose. All right, I'll leave it on the board, but only as a reward for your loyalty. It's eight minutes after twelve. Anna is in Horsham. Anna, question or answer? Question. Yes, my son is down syndrome and he would like to know if there are any down syndrome animals or does nature have a way of dealing with that? Oh, what a lovely question. Which sounds horrible. Well, it does when you put it like that, but we'll somehow find a diplomatic way of avoiding the connotations of what you've said. What's your little boy's name? Jason. Jason. And how old is he? He's six. Jason, will you tell Jason, that is one of my favorite ever mystery hour questions? He asked me a good couple of years ago and I've called you a couple of times on other questions, but I've never had the heart to ask it before. No, it's a beautiful question and I hope, as you do, that the answer doesn't involve anything sort of darwinian or anything like that. But it's a chromosomal difference, isn't it? It's a sort of genetic condition. And you want to know if it is replicated in any other species? Yeah, please. All right, we'll find out. For Jason, ten minutes after twelve is the time. Does down syndrome present or similar conditions present in any other species than humans? Does chewing gum help you lose weight? And why do we call a ten to ten mark is in Bedford Mark. Question or answer? Question. Go on, I'd love to know why golf ball's got dimples. Because the idea that it's rarer dynamics just doesn't strike it with me. Why not? What other reason can there be? Use Occam's razor. Just don't think that. I just. I'm not convinced by that argument. But what if that is the answer? Then, you know, you want to hear scientific explanation or something like that. Yeah. Yeah, I do. Yeah. So it could be that your question will turn out to be, why do dimples make a ball more aerodynamic? Yeah. But we'll begin with the entry level inquiry, which is why do golf balls have dimples on them? Yeah. Have you ever tried to play golf with a ball that didn't have any dimples? No, I haven't, to be honest with you. A lot less control. A lot less control, oddly, a lot less control over where the ball ends up. And to be honest, when I play golf, there's not a great deal of control over where the balls end up at the best of times. But with a ball that hasn't got dimples in, I think it's more like even more likely to sort of fly off and end up in the rough. But I shall find out for you. Mark, do you play golf? Occasionally. I take customers out and play golf occasionally, but I'm not great myself. Okay, well, we'll find out for you. And maybe you've got the wrong kind of dimples. It's eleven minutes after twelve. Why do golf balls have dimples? Does down syndrome or similar present in any other species than humans? Does chewing gum make you thin? And why is a tent called a tent? Stuart is in Kingston, up on Thames. Stuart, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Tents are called tents because it comes from Latin tendere, which is the stretch. And if you then look at various asino words that begin. T e n t. They're all words about stretch things. And then it came down through French into English from about middle ages. So as in stretching the canvas over a frame in order to make a shelter. Stretched things. Yes. Similar to tendon, but not quite the same tendon. Yes, you're right. So. And is it tender? Because I just said that was to hold. If I. If I was just doing it. Kind old. But to stretch is definitely the right translation of tender. It might have been tender or tender one or the other. This is 30 year old schoolboy Latin. And that's what I was about to ask. Qualifications. I can remember my classics. Yes. That's good enough for me. Round of applause for Stuart. Well placed, Stuart. Congratulations. Carl is in Charlesford. Carl, question or answer? Hi, James. It's in relation to other large apes and like gorillas and things like that. Are they all ambidextrous or do they have a predominant right handed? That should be quite easy. I mean, presumably we could have found out just by watching David Attenborough, couldn't we? And if a panda always eats its bamboo shoots with the same paw, then we've got our answer to our question. Yeah, but I've seen a few programs over the last few weeks and I've noticed that a lot of them, when they showed them eaten, they seem to be using the left hand. Really. I don't know if that's just coincidence or not, but it does seem that they use the left hand for eating. But that is probably just purely coincidental. Not necessarily. I mean, what sort of. And we did, we're just confining it to simians. Are we to the big apes? Well, yeah, I would have assumed so. Think that had the human sort of traits. I would have said so. The gorillas, baboons, orangutans and similar, do they have a predominant hand? Yeah, because I would have think in the world, that would be a disadvantage in the world, I would have thought, well, why? We've done all right. Yeah, but we're, we're slightly ahead with the opposable thumbs, aren't we? If you're in the wild, you wouldn't want to be, you wouldn't have an advantage in the world by being predominantly right handed or left handed, would you? Why not? It's not about that anyway. It's about whether or not being ambidextrous would make you have more babies. That's. There you go. Entry level survival of the fittest for you. Why would being ambidextrous make you have more babies? And remember, this is a family program. Oh, pathetic. It's coming up to 12:15. Carl wants to know where the big apes have a predominant hand. We also want to know about dimples on golf balls, down syndrome among non human species, chewing gum and weight loss. And we can cross off tent. That is if you just joined for the first time. How mystery our works. If you want to join in, the number you need is 034-56-0609 the time now is just approaching 12:15. More of your questions and more of your answers after this. This is LBC with James O'Brien on LBC. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. There's some, I think, some lovely news on the way for six year old Jason, who wants to know as a Down syndrome boy, whether or not, as a boy with downs, whether or not other species display down syndrome as well. And mum asked the question, Anna asked the question. Modicum of caution, as you can understand. Why. I think we've got some lovely answers, or a lovely answer on the way. And I can tell you, Anna, that there's a celebrity dimension as well, to the answer to this question. The film composer, David Arnold. You can tell Jason that the man who writes the music for some of the James Bond films got in touch with the radio to answer his question, but we'll keep our powder dry for the time being. Also, on the chewing gum question, Sam in Liverpool asks, I've got a bona fide. Bona fide pop star, top of the hip parade. Pop star has answered that question. But even. Even people who would probably feature on the COVID of smash hits if smash hits still existed, do not get to duck the mystery. Our rule. It's all over the phones. Dylan's in Islington. Dylan, question or answer? Question, please carry on. So, Adele won four brits last night, but all the news stories this morning kept referring to the fact that she'd won four gongs. And I just wondered why we referred to them as gongs. I seem to remember the same happened with the BAFTAs a few weeks ago as well. It's because of medals. So it's become a kind of catch all term for awards, because a medal looks like a miniature gong, a medal became known as a gong. And then other rewards that are given out by juries or panels or august bodies have become known as gongs as well. There you go. Are you going to take that? I am, yeah. I've got faith in your. No, thank you very much. Yeah, absolutely. Good man. There you go. I haven't had one of those for a couple of weeks. Oh, feels good. Ash is in rain and ash. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Come on, then. Ash. A little boy who asked the down syndrome question. Yes. Believe. I don't know how I know this. I'm certainly not claiming to be Johnny Morris. There's actually a white tiger in the United States by the name of Kenny, who was actually born with down syndrome. He's actually a white tiger. So obviously very rare. And I believe. I believe it was to do with the. Obviously the limited gene pool that goes along with, obviously, the rarity of tigers. So, yeah, that's my answer. I've got. I'm looking at a picture of it, of him. Someone else has tweeted me the picture, and David Arnold has tweeted a selection of pictures of animals with down syndrome. So I think Jason has a particularly cute gorilla there. So Jason's going to be delighted with this, isn't he? Well, yeah. I mean, it's nice that he's asking such informative questions, he really is. But also, I know Mum was worried about what the answer might involve. And I can tell you straight, Anna, that if you, if you get yourself onto David Arnold's twitter feed, or indeed mine, or just onto the Internet in general, then you're away. Qualifications, Ash. Not that you need any, because I've seen pictorial proof that you're right. Fire officer, believe it or not. That'll do. Give him a round of applause. 21 minutes after twelve, Jackie's in Wallington. Jackie, question or answer? Question, please carry on. Right, well, I was watching dead man walking many years ago and it stayed with me, the film, and it. Bit of a nasty way to die, the lethal injection seems to be, but I was just wondering whether it's the same for assisted death. I mean, what's the difference between the leaf flipping out, Jackie, we're having a right old giggle list. This supposed to be cheerful hour and you're ringing in to ask whether the euthanasia injection is the same as the death row one. I watched a lovely program a couple of weeks ago about some guy going to Switzerland and it just seemed very positive and I just wanted. Well, don't forget that dead man walking is fiction. Yes, I know. So, I mean, they may have slightly exaggerated the. But no, there are some pretty grim tales, actually, of everything from electric chairs not working properly to lethal injections not actually going straight to the core of the matter. It's actually a very good question, this, albeit a slightly perturbing one. I know. Is it the same chemicals? Is what we want to know. Really? And if not, why not? Actually, it would be a good question, given that the clinics in Switzerland do seem to provide a fairly peaceful dispatch. Reportedly, the injections in american penitentiaries don't. Jackie, I shall find out for you, but I won't ask you why you want to know. Just curiosity. Piqued by that program, of course. 23 minutes after 1203, a couple of finals free. Now, a bunch of questions that need answering include, do apes have a predominant hand? Do death row injections contain the same chemicals as the euthanasia injections available at clinics like dignitas? Does chewing gum help you lose weight? And I think the golf ball dimples as well. Yes. And why do golf balls have dimples? If I've missed anything off that list, you know what to do. Professor Martin Smith is a professor of robotics at Middlesex University. He joins me on the line now. Question or answer, Professor Smith? It's an answer, James. Carry on. It's to the golf ball and dimples problem. Yes. Well, it's counterintuitive. You would expect a rough surface would go through the air less. Well, hence the question. I think that's where I was asked. Yes, it's a good question. And the reason is, if you get exactly the right amount of roughness, the air molecules will stick to the ball, which will make it appear as it goes through the air, smoother. And because there's this little thin layer of air around it and molecules of air are very smooth, it will go through the air with less drag, so it will go further. Oh, I like that. It makes sense as well. That's not. I mean, that's a nice layman's. As a layman, I can understand the answer, because there'll be less friction of an air molecule on an air molecule than there would be of an air molecule on a. Well, forgive me, on a ball molecule. Yes. The surface of the sphere can never be as smooth as a molecule of air. Indeed it can't. 24 minutes after twelve. A round of applause for. Do I need to ask what your qualifications are? It's not necessarily in the sphere of robotics, this, is it? Well, in actual fact, I was a mad keen motorsport chap. Learned a lot about aerodynamic dynamics to make my cars go faster. Why don't. This might sound a little odd then why don't helmets have dimples on them? Well, the effect would be quite small, I think, and it might compromise their. It might compromise their pregnability as well. Their impregnability. Well, compared with the whole vehicle. So. You're right, so forget I ever asked that question and accept this round of applause with our confidence. How's it all? Thank you very much. 25 minutes after twelve. So, we've done the dimples, we still need the apes, the chewing gum and the euthanasia. If you just tuned in, I wonder how you would make sense of that. What? You've just. You've done the dimples and you've just got to do the apes, the gum and the euthanasia. What. What sort of mad radio is this? 25 minutes after twelve. One phone line free, just freed up by the good professor. If you want it, you know what to do. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need to do it. Stephen Epsom is next. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, James. Good afternoon. Just. Just before I ask you my question. Can I just say that my work colleague and I, his name is Pilchard. We're great fans of the James O'Brien. Sigh when you do. You know when you. And you know when you're talking to. Yeah, that's another 50 p. We're giving it to charity. You're putting it in the pot, are you? I'm very glad to. We're going to give it to charity, mate. Yeah, we love it. We're going to get some t shirts done and everything. Give my love to Pilchard. What's your question is, we're in the trades. We're painters and decorators. Yes. And I get quite offended when people say, oh, you're cowboys. What on earth has a cowboy got to do with being in the building trade? It is to do with the. If you were a cowboy and you were on the plane with your herd, and you had to cover a lot of plane with your herd and you didn't, and you wanted to stop off on the way and maybe have a kip, or maybe if you were a part of the gold rush and you arrived at a gold rush town, it's about throwing up a residence, throwing up somewhere to kip really quickly without necessarily paying proper attention to permanence. All right. Have you been a cowboy, then? Yeah, I was a cowboy for many years. You really? Yeah, many years. Used to wear those leather chaps, mate. Listen, I'm going to ask Pilchard to be careful of you. I don't know why you're inquiring after my leather trouser wearing inquiries. That is the truth. And my qualification for that, I can't remember. I think I might have learnt it here, actually. But it's to do with throwing up a place to stay really quickly, you know, like, better than a bivouac, obviously. But it's probably got more to do with the gold rush and building towns and spaces to sleep in really quickly than it has to do with your actual cowboying. But, you know, it's a thin line between the two. Can I just say what I thought it might have been? I don't know. I'll ask you a question and you'll know. Hang on. When you've done. Just remind. When you've done this, am I likely to sigh in response to your contribution? It's to a very good call. So, I mean, I don't mind. Go on, then. I really don't mind. So I thought it was when, back in the day, in the cowboy days, you know, they would just all flee from town to town and trying to get a bit of work. They turn around to the herd. Owners say, look, yeah, we're cowboys, I've done it before, that kind of thing. And they get a bit of work. That's why I thought, I like that as well. But then why would it apply specifically to people in the construction trade, you see? Yeah, I just don't get that. Well, now you do because I just told you, mate, I'm having it. What? What? I'm not having it. Come on, get your mate in from the university, he knows everyone. But you know, I've done it. I get. Round of applause for me. There you go. Stick around your pipe and smoke it, Stevie. 28 minutes after twelve is a time Terry is embassled. And Terry, question or answer? Hi, James. I think I've got an answer. Yes, carry on. Okay, on the back, the chewing gum one. Oh, yes, I know it's a stupid. I heard it and I thought, I've got a ring in. I like the question. I didn't sound like it. I think you would end up putting weight on and the reason why I think that is because I think the act of chewing gum would make you hungry, because your stomach would get ready for food, there would be nothing in there. I like this. You're up against James out of the vamps, who has messaged me with his answer to this. So I'm going to put your head to head. I'm getting a bit worried about the vamps on their next album because James seems to spend his entire life listening to this programme, particularly in LBC in general. I don't know when the next album is going to make its appearance, but he says, and I don't know how he knows this, but I'm going to trust him because he's a pop star. An average stick of gum is eleven calories. It takes 1 hour to chew eleven calories. So it's absolutely pointless. Sorry, Sam, I think you can both be right on this. You're definitely not going to lose weight because of that eleven calorie contingent, but you would probably be right in suggesting that it's more likely to make you hungry. Or are you, though? You've also got to be careful because you're going to get stomach ulcers, the acid in your stomach when there's no food to digest. And it is to be serious for a moment, just a brief moment. It is something that people suffering from eating disorders often do as well. So it maybe does suppress appetites in a way, but in terms of making you lose weight. We're going to go in. No, right? Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I reckon I would go as far as saying you gain weight for the eating and you probably buy some chocolate or something. Have you ever shared a round of applause with a pop idol before? No, but my daughter's going to be absolutely over the moon. You want to get this off the podcast? You want to get this off the podcast. This is the real deal. This is half for you, half for James. Have a good day. Thank you. And it's 12:30 Eleanor notes is here with the headlines. 33 minutes after twelve is the time. And I have some phone lines free because we've managed to rattle through the questions in the last half of the program. If you would like to ask a question of your own, then hit the numbers now and you have the best chance since five to twelve this morning of getting through to the studio. Zero. 345-606-0973 I think it's just apes and euthanasia still on the board. Is it? Why do we, or rather, do apes have a predominant hand? You call it a hand, the monkeys have hands. It is a hand, isn't it? Not a paw? Yeah. So do big apes have predominant hands? And strange question this, but I completely understand the curiosity that spawned it. Do the lethal injections on death row use similar or the same chemicals as the kind of injections that you might be administered at a clinic such as dignitas? So euthanasia and execution, is there a sort of chemical crossover? I told you it was a strange question, but I think, like me, you can understand why it has been asked. 1234 is the time. Remember, I only say the number and I've got a phone line free. If you've got a question, you had a good moment then, but I'll give you another heads up when you get another. John's in edgeware. John, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why do we use the symbol tick for correct and the x for incorrect? I like that. Obvious answer. I'm just trying to think. Is there an obvious answer? No. Go on, carry on. I was gonna say, the reason I asked that is because as a coach driver, you have to do a defect, cheat and tick. What's right. X for trunk. It's. For years and years I've just been wondering, why do we use that? Why do those symbols, the origins, the x as a, as a negative, might have something to do with Christianity, mightn't it? With the cross? Historically, but. Well, okay, but what about necessary? The tick mark? Yeah. No, I know, mate. I'm just thinking out loud. John, don't pressure me. Give me a chance, mate. A bit of breathing space wouldn't go amiss on this one. I'm just. I'm looking at it now and doing a few ticks, trying to work out. But you've set the bar so high in previous. You're very kind. I like this a lot. Yeah. Why does a tick mean yes or positive? Because you'd think you could just do a plus or a minor. Well, a tick is very quick to do, but even that. Yeah, all right. I don't know that we're going to get an answer to this. You might have unearthed one of the great mysteries of our time, John. We shall find out. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. If you know the answer to John's question, then grab the phone line he's just vacated. Now on zero. 345-606-0973 Margaret's in. Whitney. Margaret Quest, your or answer? I have an answer for you. Oh, magnificent. It's to do with the apes and the handedness. Oh, yes. Well, actually, all animals tend to have a, what we call a laterality preference, which, when you say we, who do we? Because I've never used the phrase laterality preference, so I'm not part of this. We, who are we? Peer reviewed research, let's put it that way. Okie dokie. Believe it or not, there has been many, many hours of research done on this subject. Hope so, too. It's important. And they do. And they tend to be left handed. So he was right. Watching all these programs, looking at what hand they ate with. You heard the caller say it may have been a coincidence, but I think they were mostly left handed. Do we know why? Well, we. Do you know why? Well, that is another question. It's actually to do with something with embryonic development, so it's definitely within the womb. However, there is a factor of environment as well, but that is where we are not sure how much is influenced by each one. So there you go. That's a lovely question, isn't it? And a brilliant answer. And your qualifications are? I'm a lecturer in animal stuff and I've got a mad, completely mad friend who is totally, absolutely obsessed by what we call laterality. So do you know why he or she is so obsessed with laterality? Just a fascinating academic area. Because it involves mysteries still, and not every area does. Yeah, it's. Believe it or not, horses do as well. And it's very much a horsey subject. Really? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Would it affect how fast you can run around a track? It does. So if you've got. If you're right legged as a horse, you're never going to be a very good horse race. Yeah. Unless. Yes, most tracks in UK are obviously left handed. Yeah. So. And most horses are left footed, so it's just working out, you know, which one comes from. Do you know? I forgot. Margaret, how often do you listen to miss Cheer? As much as I can, because I'm usually. Between going to university and college, I missed out one of my catch phrases today, because my catchphrase is usually, if you will know more by 01:00 today than you do now. I completely forgot to. But you are the most perfect example of why I make that statement with such confidence. Because there's no. Most people lateral preference, even if they already knew that the apes were mostly left handed, they probably weren't familiar with the phrase lateral preference. I certainly wasn't. A round of applause for Margaret, who lectures in animal stuff. That's a description of the academic subject rather than the environmental circumstances. Jamie's in Mansfield. Jamie, question or answer? Go on. So it's to do with euthanasia and the drug they use in prisons as well, for, you know, obviously taking a life. Yes. So there's a couple of different types of drugs, so it changes all the time. And the reason it changed all the time is it continuously changed the chemicals with the prison system. Yes, because some of the companies will stop selling them, depending on certain rights. There was a story about a bloke in ealing a couple of years ago who was supplying chemicals to american penitentiaries and then for some reason, had to stop doing so, or maybe was prevented by british law from doing so. So the laws are different. So getting hold of the chemicals is a lot easier in a clinical context than it is in a criminal one. I think the one they use mainly for euthanasia is called butanol, I think is the right answer for it. This is. I'm not saying, but in euthanasia generally, it actually stops the cardiac system from working. So it paralyzes the diagram, the diaphragm in the lungs, which then brings on cardiac arrest. But it's not as painful or nowhere near as painful as if you was being put to death under the penal system, which is a very painful exercise. So they use three drugs. One is to sedate, one is to paralyze, and the third one is to kill you, which is a very painful drug. So they are different, but I can't tell you the names of the chemicals used? No, that's all right. I ask you this with a modicum of caution, Jamie. What are your qualifications to answer this question? My qualification is I looked into this and studied this for an answer for my son. What your son wanted to know. I was having a political argument with somebody about rights and wrongs. Euthanasia. A long time ago, my son asked me a question about it, and I wanted to understand it more, so I researched it. Who would have thought on that long, distant day that one. One moment in the future could be such a. Such a thing of beauty and allow you to exercise this knowledge in such a public way? Jamie? Well, I'm sure there'll be other answers to the chemicals that are being used. No, we don't need to because it's a yes or no. It's a yes or no. The question was whether or not they're the same. And the answer is that there's no similarity whatsoever. And it has not only allowed you to dredge up this nugget of knowledge from the depths of your memories, it's also. It's also only this. What a time to be alive, Jamie. Thank you, mate. Mark's in Sunbury. Question or answer, Mark? It's a question. Afternoon, James. Very well indeed. Good. Now, if a man is given the title of a sir by the queen. So he's knighted. Yes, he's knighted and married to a lady. She becomes a lady. She does, yes, a lady. If you know what I mean. I do. What happens if he's married to a man? Does he get a title? I think I know. A lord. Who's. Who's. Who's married to a man? I don't know. What a lovely question. Does the. Does the spouse in a same sex marriage get a title when their partner is ennobled? Now, if I. Do, you want to know, Mark, what's on the horizon? But in the same way, if a lady is made a dame by the queen, which is the female version of the night, her husband just stays as a mister. Oh, does he? Yes. In the age of equality, surely, if a man is. When Baroness Thatcher. Didn't Dennis get anything at all when she was made baroness Thatcher? No, I don't. I think he became a sir. The children get. The children, the son gets. It's a hereditary title, wasn't it, for so. But Dennis became something, didn't he? I thought he might have become Sir Dennis Thatcher. So if misses O'Brien. I beg your pardon? When Misses O'Brien gets ennobled, I won't get diddly squat if she's a baroness. You might. It's not gonna happen, mate. I love the woman, but let's be realistic. I mean, she might be a lady one day, but she's never gonna be a baroness. Well, you never know. This is true. Why do you want to know? Just. Just curiosity. Just pure curiosity. You're not. You don't. You don't have a couple of gay friends who vying for a gong. I might be vying for a gong myself. You might indeed. Let's find out whether or not would be a contingent benefit accrued by said partner. Zero. 345-606-0973 I love that question. I do know a lord who's. Who's got a civil partner would a civil civil partner would still qualify quite a lot. It's a lovely question. I wonder if we can limit the answer to people who've actually got it, actually been there. We'll find out. We're short of time anyway. It's 1244, very nearly Mustafa is an Enfield. Mustafa. Question or answer? Answers. James. Yes. Yes or no in cross and the tick. Yes. You're gonna like this answer because it's from Greek. Oh, ok for the x. Ok for the x. And you know the tick looks like an n, which is in Greek. You know me so well, Mustafa. I was trying. Did you hear me mumbling in the background? I was. When he was talking, I was writing down the answer. I was going, okie. So okie is no in Greece. I was nearly there. What are your qualifications? I used to take greek lessons and my teacher was telling us all these things. How long did you take greek lessons? For? A couple of years. And then I spoke a bit of secret Greek. I wanted to improve it. Yes. And I was taking greek lessons a couple of years ago, so. Tora Milas, Helenika Malista. Let's move on now. Give him a round of applause. I've remembered another greek word, Mustafa. 1245 is the time. LBC. It's 1249. And I'm going to squeeze in a few more questions, actually, because we've ticked off most of the ones we've got already. A lot of you are citing the example of Elton John in answer to the last question about whether or not a knighted man with a male partner. Husband, does the partner get anything in the way that a female partner would become a lady? Was Sir Elton John and he was still married to a woman. She'd have become lady Renato. Was that the name of his wife all those years ago? I could be confused. So that might be it, but I need to go definitive. Does the male partner get. Or indeed, if it's two women and one becomes a lady, does the other get a title? Zero. 345-606-0973 I think we've done everything else, actually. So if you want to pile in with a question quickly, then we've still got nine or ten minutes left. Plenty of room to get through a few more. Is that right? We've done the cowboys, we've done the euthanasia, the gum, the apes, the dimples on the golf ball, glassing at the board. No stewards inquiries on the way. Yeah. Okay. Let's start from scratch, then. Apart from that sir and lady question. Rupert is in Twickenham. Question or answer, Rupert? It's a question. Yes. I wondered why an american gallon is different in size to a british gallon. I mean, we don't have different size litres to the French. No, I'm torn on this, Rupert. I'm not going to lie to you. This is either a rather good question or an incredibly boring one. Thank you. You're very well. Let's wait and see what's inspired your interest? Usually everything american is bigger than what the bear gallon is actually smaller. Is it? And it's a measurement. It's a unit of measurement for what? For liquids as well? Yeah. Yeah. So you. Literally. So you go to a petrol. Sorry, you go to a petrol station, you buy petrol by the gallon in America and you're actually getting fewer. Less petrol per gallon than you are when you do it in Britain. I didn't know that. I just saw qualifying my own ignorance. I don't know. Ten gallon hats. Could that possibly be part of the answer? No is the polite response, I think, to that question. Rupert, I shall do my best to find out for you. Why is an american gallon smaller than a british gallon? And does the spouse in a same sex marriage get anything when their partner gets ennobled? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer that, or still actually another five minutes or so to get a question on the board with a realistic chance of getting an answer. Annie's on Wimbledon Common. Hello. Question or answer, Annie. Question, please. Yes. Why can we not pause the radio the way we can pause our tvs? As in when your daughter comes into the kitchen and it's a crucial moment that you're listening to, you can't stop, let it go and then put it back on. It's infuriating. You can. How? I'll show you. Wait there. See, she's not here. I think on digital, the technology probably exists to do it. So if you've got a really fancy digital radio, can you pause it? Can you actually do it? Yeah, but the point is, as with all things purchasable, it's all to do with demand, isn't it? It's all to do with. Because I'd quite often like to pause the radio, but with, you know, podcasts and iplayer and other things like that, how did you find the time to go back and listen to a podcast? Well, that's a very good point. Rewind as well would be quite useful on the radio, wouldn't it? And I guess one goes with the other. So can you rewind as well on really fancy ones? Yeah, you can get it, Annie. But how much do they cost, do we know? Roughly a couple of grand, is it. I mean, they're talking or a few hundred quid? They're just. They're just, you know, they're well over 100 quid. As opposed to what you paid for your radio, which I inherited. Yes, but if you ever. If you ever need me to pause, just. Just give me a ring. Just give me a ring. Thank you, James. I'll do that. Round of applause for me and my colleague Mark, who knows the actual answers and whose knowledge I was kind of whose brains I was picking while simultaneously talking to Annie. I like that. That's a good question. What about the gallons? Are we going to get an answer on the gallons? Uh, ray is in Southwark. Ray, question or answer? Question. Uh, Yasu and Daxi. Yasu. Ray Dikanis. Yeah, I mean, English, Greek. We're gonna move. We're gonna alienate a lot of the audience if we conduct too much of these conversations in the actual language of Greek. Carry on. Russian. Russian roulette. Why is it called russian roulette? Not greek roulette or. Or chinese roulette. Why Russian? The practice of spinning a barrel of a gun and seeing whether or not it's got a bullet in it by putting it to your head and pulling the trigger. That's the one. I won't play the game. Russian. No, best not to. No, I should advise against it. For anyone. Russian roulette, is it something to do with the second world war? Won't it? And the front? I mean, the conditions that the Russians endured first and second world war were shocking, and I just burbling. Now, you might be close there, but I'm not going to get a cigar. All right. Why russian roulette? Well, just the origins of russian roulette will give us the answer that we need. So, russian roulette and american gallants and lords and ladies and lords and lords. Or, as Scott Balcony has pointed out, we're talking about a gay lord. Callum is in Bambury. Callum. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Callum. I asked the question about the US gallants to my granddad years ago, and the answer I got was we were selling them something. I don't know whether it was oil or wild whatever it was, during the war, we would pinch a bit out the top of the barrel and sell it them as, like, the same amount of gallons. It can't be that. Well, that's what I was told. I love the answer, and I like your granddad's cleverness and sense of mischief, but it can't be that. Oh, Dunno. Is it or not? It can't be. I mean, a gallon is a gallon, and there must be a historical explanation as to where their unit of measurement differed from ours, because they'd have had gallons long before the war. Ten gallon hats were around in the 19th, 19th century. It might not have been the war, but it was at some point, apparently, we were buying something about the top and selling it to them as the same unit. I would love nothing more, Callum, than to give you a round of applause, but I feel that you. You haven't. No, mate. You just haven't gone far enough. There's just not. There's no. There's no. I mean, there's no prospect of closure on. Oh, hang on. Stay where you are, because David's at Gatwick with another answer to the same question. David, what have you got? I've got an american pint is only 16 fluid ounces. Yes. And that is eight pints to a gallon. Our pints are 20 fluid ounces. There's a 16. And it's something to do with the fact that once upon a time in this country, we had two units of measure one. Something to do with the west country is to measure 16oz to a pint. So we may have had diverging measurements in this country, one of which got exported, one of which went over on the mayflower and one of which didn't. And that's why the Americans have gone down the other road, and that's why an american gallon is smaller than ours. I like that, Callum. Yeah. I'm going to let you decide who's more persuasive, David or your granddad. Well, as one was more persuasive, one was just a better answer? I've never met your granddad who had the better answer. I know what I'll tell my grandkids. We didled them Americans, son. We didled them Amerikys. I'm giving a round of applause to David. David. Qualifications? Absolutely none whatsoever. I just happen to know, because I'm a cab driver in an American and got in the car one day and he said, what do you get to the gallon? And I told him, he said, well, that ain't much. Ah. And then, yes, well, it was. I mean, even if it had been the same measurement, you'd still have been valid on that. I'm going to give it to David. But it's 1257, so if there's going to be a steward inquiry, then there's about 60 seconds to launch it. Callum, mate, thank you. But again, on this occasion, no cigar for you. The time is 1257. The number you need, if you can answer. We've done everything. Have we actually finished? No, we've still got russian roulette and lord. And Lord Richard's in Chelsea. Question or answer, Richard? It's an answer, Jane. Carry on, Richard. The Lord and lady? Yes. If a lord marries a gentleman, the lady that is or used to be his lady, now as a man, remains as a man. He doesn't acquire any ennoblement of any kind. Why not? It seems a little unfair, doesn't it? Have we just not caught up with modernity yet in the. In the. In the realms of gong? I don't know so much as. Why not? Because it doesn't apply in the case of a baroness. And like misses Thatcher, for example, she became Lady Thatcher. That was a life peerage. And at the time, Dennis was not. Oh, I think. I think you're wrong on that. I think you're right. I think he became Sir Denis Thatcher. He did. But that was a. That was a hereditary baronetcy. Yeah. Oh, sorry, I misunderstood you. You're talking about the life periods. And then she got promoted to Baroness Thatcher. No, no, a life peerage is the baroness. No, that's hereditary, because Mark Thatcher's inherited something. Yes, but Mark got it from his father. Oh, you're too fast. No, I'm going, mate. You've won. Richard, I'm not arguing with you. You've got that lovely, calm demeanor which I can never get. I can never win arguments with people like you. What are your qualifications? I'm a toastmaster. My job is to introduce such people and to understand and know the protocol. Well, I don't know how many honors you've received yet, but I doubt any of them. I don't know. I doubt any of the measurements up to this. Richard, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Brian's on the line with an answer to the russian roulette question, but we'll never hear it because Sheila's here now, which kind of seems apt, really. I'm Joseph. Brian, this is LBC. We'll do it again tomorrow. From ten, here's Sheila Fogarty. Hello, James. Thank you. Now, from three, should a school protect the identity of an online bully when they know who it is? Lovely story from two about twins. One black, one white. But will it be lovely once society's racial attitudes start to bite? And the BBC. Oh, the BBC. Scores of children left open to abuse, women raped and BBC managers doing nothing about it. A culture of fear stopping those who suspected Savile and others from coming forward. Just some of the findings of the Smiths review. I know, James.