Can worms climb trees, if so, how?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien, first time in ages, actually, that I've almost sort of thought, oh, mystery hour. You've really enjoyed the last conversation. It's a very, very long time since I've wondered whether the the excitements of mystery Hour may be paling. Let's find out. This hour, four minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we turn our attention next to our weekly adventure into the unknown. This, if you don't know, is a radio equivalent of those newspaper and magazine features, notes and queries Q and A's, where one reader writes in asking a question to which they know there must be an answer but haven't been able to find themselves. And then another reader often many weeks later, writes in with that answer, we do things immediately. This is interactivity at its most immediate, and the best way of understanding it is merely to listen to it. There are two rules, actually. There's a few that changes every week, really. I make it up as I go along, just like the rest of the program, but try not to be boring. And no, I can't really explain what I mean by that. It's about cars. I won't like it. But then there was a question, something to do with cars recently that I did quite like, I suppose. In summary, if Beth and Jacob put through a question that I find a little bit rubbish, I'll take the Mickey out of it until someone rings in with the answer that then reveals it wasn't a rubbish question at all and I'll look a bit silly. That seems to be how things work historically. Repetition is our enemy, as always on this program. Otherwise we talk about parking tickets and foreign aid every day. But repetition is a particular enemy of mystery. But then again, none of us are perfect, so we may forget a question has been on recently. Try not to be rude to me if that happens. So we've done this before. I know it's all done in love, but still, let's keep it friendly, all right? No hitting below the belt and three minute rounds. Zero. 345-606-0973 is a phone number. It gets you through to the studio if there are any phone lines free, which is something of a rarity during mystery hour. But if you hear me say the number, it means that for that brief window of time at least there is an opportunity to get yourself on the board. If you hear somebody ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same and you have to ring it, otherwise your radio might melt. Is that it? Well, look, the phone lines are already full. Are these decent questions or are we going to start culling them 50 50? Well, let's find out, because there's no point me punting for calls if the phone lines are already full. This is like that bit in the wizard of Oz where Toto pulled the curtain back, isn't it? I am the old man pulling levers behind the curtain. Shouldn't really spoil the magic. Let's go to Hammersmith. James, is there. James, question or answer? It's answer, James, to the question last week from about his nose. Isn't those growth carrying on? I knew this was going to happen when Beth took over as producer. She's going to find ways to stamp. She's going to find ways to stamp her identity on the program and break with the past. So we actually now do have a proper answer to my silly inquiry at the top of every mystery, our question or answer. So this was about why, with particular reference to Kirk Douglas, it turned out why the ears carry on growing long after the rest of the body has stopped. Yeah, that's right. They don't care. I'm growing. What it is, is gravity. Yeah. So as you get older, the cartilage in your ears and nose, the cells that make them up, they break down, and as they break down, gravity is more reflecting, so it pulls them down your face. It's the collagen and elastic fibers and the supporting tissue sort of stops supporting those parts so they appear to grow. But actually, what it is, it's just sagging. It's age and gravity, unfortunately. So, I mean, I hesitate to say this in a post Toby Young universe, but there are other body parts on other people that would be less visible but similarly affected? Exactly, yeah. You can do it. You can do it diplomatically without offending anybody. It's not that difficult, is it? What are your qualifications, James? I was a forensic scientist. Was? Yeah. I'm now a civil servant. Are you just moved on? Yeah. Fantastic. A forensic scientist. So you'd study cadavers, would you, or. Yeah. And so you can use the elongation of ear growth as a measurement of age and also ease as a matter of identity in the same way as fingerprints. This is just a beautiful answer. Set the bar very high, though, for the rest of mystery. I don't know if we want to make a habit of putting on quality answers right at the top of the show. Have a random thought. Don't ever do it again. Don't be brilliant. Stop being so brilliant. Eight minutes after twelve. That is a beautiful answer because it makes perfect sense. And actually, I can't remember whether I did this last week when the question came out. I told you about a girl I used to know, didn't I? With earrings that dragged down so far that she ended up with these long slits in her earlobes. She used to wear really, really heavy earrings. I've no idea. I should have asked her at the time, but I was going through a period where I found it hard to talk to girls. I should have asked her at the time. Surely when you realized that wearing heavy earrings every day was beginning to is attenuator word, was it beginning to or extend your hole in a kind of vertical. Your ear piercing hole in a vertical way. So you were ending up with a kind of line appearing. All right, I digress. Jordan is in Kensington, which is obviously geographically incorrect, but for the purposes of mystery, it's something that we're prepared to let past. Jordan, what would you like to ask? Question or answer question. Go on then. It's about spiders. Oh, good. I wanted to know whether spiders can use other spiders webs, as in different species. Can they walk across it or what? That's. That was my question. Yes, they can. Yeah, I reckon. Well, they don't get caught in it. Well, I've seen two spiders on the same web. Have you? Yeah. Okay. In my own garden, actually, a couple of nights ago. Okay. Well, they might have been husband and wife spider, which probably doesn't answer your question quite as fully as I would hope. Like there's different species, maybe. Could it give. What? Can it walk across there is what I'm saying. Without all. Without getting caught. Like if a fly went over there, obviously they wouldn't be able to. An ant or something like that. But why? How can another spider just walk across there? I think. Well, for the same reason that they can walk across their own webs, they've got some special secretions on their feet that render the glue on the web. I'm not making it up, but I'm also not as confident it does sound okay? Yeah, that sounds. I'm not as confident as I sound. No. Okay. Can spiders use other spiders webs? Let's just leave it up there. Yeah, I like it a lot. What made you wonder it, Jordan? I just see a lot of spiders. I wonder if they can just use other webs. Squatter spiders. Yeah, it could do that. Yeah. I don't know that. I don't know that it takes that long to weave a web. So it may be a slightly moot question, but I'd like. I'd like. And also they're very fragile things, as you know. So how long are they going to hang around for? You're not going to happen upon a ten year old spider's web, are you? No. You're not? No. All right, Jordan, mind. There you go. Ten minutes after twelve. Can a spider use another spider's web? Charlie's in Haringey. Charlie, question or answer? Hello, James, is a question. Carry on. I don't have to make this into an eloquent question, but you know when you have no signal on your phone. Yeah. How can you still have the option to call emergency services? What's. What sort of systems in place that allows that? I'm poised to applaud. This is a brilliant question, but I am slightly paused by the possibility that we've had it before. I'm 99%. No, no, mate, I'm 99% certain that we haven't had it before, but my short term memory shot to pieces. Yeah, it's a brilliant question, isn't it? If you've got no signal, how could you make an emergency call? Have you ever tried it? Yeah. No, because I don't want to prank call the emergency. No. Well, that is part of the problem, is that maybe it doesn't work in quite the same. Maybe you've got emergency transmit. Why are we thinking out loud when neither of us know the answer, Charlie? I've got no idea. Well, let's stop now, shall we? Yeah, put it on the board. Let's get it on the board. Why do. How can your mobile phone, if it's got no signal, still suggests that you might want to ring the emergency services. I love that question zero. 345-606-0973 David is in Chelsea. David, question or answer? I'm Gatwick, actually. Good morning. You're where, mate? I'm in Gatwick. Gatwick. My apologies. Are you. Are you one of the brotherhood of black cabs? No, the private eye cars. Right you are. Carry on. Right. You have two. Two girls? I do. If you. If you employ a girl, you call her a nanny. Yeah. If you decided that you would employ a man who is capable of doing the job. Yeah. What would he be called? A Manny. A goat? A manny. A manny. A manny. A manny. Well, have you been nanny? Starting what? How did the word nanny come into it? No, you don't get to change your question just because I've knocked the first one out of the park. David, I don't recommend is actually. What are you talking about? I've got. I know, Manny's. Some of my best friends are Manny's. Did you just snort? I did, actually, yes. Fair enough. They call me the pig. That's all right. We're among. We're among friends. There's no technical term, but Manny has been accepted into common parlance to a degree where I wouldn't be surprised if it was in the dictionary. Or you could use the word nanny for a man. Nanny isn't necessarily feminine, even though obviously its applications in other contexts are feminine. You're talking about a female grandmother or a female goat. Yeah, yeah. I'm going with Manny, mate, and I'm taking a round of applause. Oh, well, that makes me a grandad, Manny, then, because I'm lost. Each old renter. There you go. You're doing some good mannying on those occasions. No, don't be daft. You want to be called. What's the one in friends called? I know, I've got it from friends. I'm having two conversations at the same time, this with real people. Don't panic. But the. But, no, it is from friends, but it's also gone into common parlance. I'm taking a round of applause. David, you take care of yourself. And don't change your name to Manny, because there's no one quite like granddad. By all means, have the clap. Thank you. Tim's in Bristol. Tim, question or answer? Hi, James. Yeah. What are the meteorological circumstances needed for a cloud to dump its rain? Why does the cloud. Not necessarily. Why does the cloud drop its rain? But there's different shades of clouds. Obviously, if it's a really dark cloud, you know it's going to drop its rain sooner or later. But why does it then drop its rain? Or why does it pass you and it hasn't dropped his rain in the summer, for example, you go for a walk. Can I pause you there and just say that? Why does it rain is four words. Yeah, but no, go on. That's it. Why does it rain? Fair enough, isn't it? No. Well, let me just say a bit further. On a sunny day and you get a dark cloud come your way, you can be. You're kind of like, you know, you can move around and say, I think that's gonna rain on me this time of year. Is it because I lied when I was 17, well, out for a walk and you don't know if it's gonna rain on you or not. Yeah. So why does it rain? Yeah, I guess, yeah. How much of our life did we waste there? I put it on the board. And obviously people are looking for a catch all criterion. Under all criteria, plural. Under which rain will occur, precipitation will comment. Tim, why do you want to know? I've always wondered. All right. No, no, don't spoil it. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Jason's engraved end back to mystery. Our Jason. Question or answer? Ask. Please carry on. It's one about the mobile phone emergency calls. Before I accept your answer. Are you a self hating ethnomasochist? I don't think so. Carry on, then. That's all right. Well, it's quite simply that your phone is receiving a mobile signal, but it's from a different network and not the one you're subscribed to. Boring. I hate it when brilliant questions have boring answers, but it's the price you pay for the questions that seem boring that turn out to have brilliant answers. So, theoretically, there are plenty of places where you'd have no option to ring the emergency services because there was genuinely no service from any provider. Absolutely. But if you're with o two and you can't get a signal, but you could get an EE one, then you're away. Yeah. Qualifications like I can't guess. I work in comms, but not that field of comms. All right, well, then you only get a round of applause if you were upper mast. If you were currently upper mast, you might have got a Rayleigh otter, but not today. Take care, Jason. Thank you. Nikki is in Bracknell. Nicky, question or answer? Question. All right. I like to know where the slave. Where are you, Nick? It sounds like you're down a well, mate. What have you done with your phone since you spoke to Beth? No, I've done nothing. I'm in a lorry at the moment. All right, well, let's crack on with it quickly then, my friend. I just want to know where that saying about chestnut comes from. Old chestnut. As in a hackneyed story? As in a well known joke? No. So when you say something, you've done something and then somebody say to you, oh, that old chestnut. Yeah, like a cliche. Yeah. Yeah. All right, I'll find out for you. Yeah. What's the origin? Because we're allowed one a week. Remember origins of phrases. Where does that phrase come from? This is where Wayne in Basildon might weigh in with his encyclopedic knowledge of the brewers dictionary of phrase and fable. Tony's in Kingsbury. Tony, question or answer. Answer. Carry on. Why does it rain? Is it because I cried when I was seven? Stop it. Lied when I. No one gets that joke. It was. Was it keen? No. I did. No, it was Travis not keen. Do you have a cold window near you? Well, at the moment, yes. No. Well, I do, but it's. You have to go somewhere to do it. Yeah. And it's a. It's a window into a. Into a corridor to another window. So you can't actually open it. It's just a state of the art studio, this. I see. We'll try it later. What? I'm going to tell you. When I was at primary school, the teacher asked exactly this question. Yeah. And no one knew. Yeah. And he asked me to get up on my desk and breathe on the window. And when you do that, if it's cool window. I'm doing it now. You get a little cloud of moisture, condensation, warm air, as water vapor in the clouds hits cold air and it precipitates through condensation. Do we have any conditions here? Because that's the overview. But I suspect the fellow who asked the Questions wants a bit more detail on what those temperatures are and what have you. Well, it has to be cold enough for it to cause the water vapor to condense. So that's it? Yes. When cold air hits warm air, you get rain? Yep. But where is the water? In the clouds. What, do you think clouds are made? No, that's what I mean. So the cloud is the warm air? Yes. And then. Don't talk to me as if you think I'm stupid. Even if you do, I think it's impolite. Do you know how much an average cumulus cloud weighs? I was hoping you'd say, I don't think you're stupid, James, but that ship has sailed. Now, the average cumulus cloud weighs about 14 pounds. No, about the same as an elephant. Really? What about a ton? About four tons. Four tons? Yep. WHOOP. I know. Good, isn't it? It is amazing. How do they weigh a cloud? No idea. You can calculate it from the weight of the water vapor. So it is simply the warm air in the cloud hitting a cold front. And then you get rain. So it doesn't matter what color the cloud is, it doesn't matter what the weather is like elsewhere, right up in the heavens. Cloud of vapor, which you can see, hits cold air, which you can't see. And rain ensues. Yeah. So in this country, typically the wind comes from the southwest, off the atlantic, which is relatively warm. If it hits cold air coming from the east or the north, then you get rain. Yeah. Qualifications. If you watch weather forecasts, they're always talking about cold fronts. No, I know, you're right. That's where rain comes. I don't know if the questioner wanted more detail, but he's not going to get it. You're getting the round of applause. What are your qualifications? Scientist. Scientist. Very good. Nicely said. It's funny, you know, the conversation we had in the last hour about youthful idiocy as opposed to indiscretions? I wish I can. I was thinking about this quite a lot recently. The stupidity of, for example, going to university and not going to lectures. So many different things. Scientists like a celebration of knowledge, literally. That's what it means, isn't it? It's just Latin. Scientia for knowledge, I think. And looking back increasingly as my kids are getting older and, thank God, enjoying school, the amount of effort that I put into avoiding being educated, really quite pathetic. Ian's in chipping Norton. I don't know quite where that came from. Question or answer, Ian? Question, please. Carry on, mate. Okay. It's about earthworms. I've got some trees, quite a few trees in my back garden, and where the main trunk goes up, you get the main branches coming off the side. And I was clearing the leaves out and I was finding earthworms up there in the tree where the branches come out from the trunk. So I'm wondering how the worms are getting that far up the tree. I actually went and looked up a few of my other trees on a ladder. I've got 15ft up and I was finding earthworms that far off a beech tree. So I'm just wondering how these worms are getting so far up these trees. I think they might have climbed. What? Up the bark. See, I thought that, but I've never seen a worm climb a tree. How hard have you looked? That's today's t shirt sorted, by the way. I've never. I've never seen a worm climb a tree. That's. I think we should start doing good caller of the day now on LBC. I'm going to start doing t shirt of the day. I've never seen a worm climbing a tree. Seriously, how hard have you looked? Well, I'm out in the garden quite a lot and I've never seen one crawling. I do think the most logical explanation is that worms can climb trees. Yes, but I want someone who knows to tell me whether these worms are climbing the trees. What other alternatives? What other alternative, do you think? Well, my friend's a tree surgeon. He said, well, they may have come. Worm eggs on the feet of birds was one of his explanations. But I thought, you're the man to ask. You'll get me the answer. Or, I mean, there is that possibility as well that a bird had a worm and dropped it on a tree and they just launched a worm colony in the tree. That's what my mate down the pub said. And I went, I've searched five of my trees and I found worms in all of them. I just find it hard to believe that five birds have got five worms in five different trees. Maybe it's like the tribes of Israel and the original worm colony in one of the tree went forth and multiplied and they sent their worms over to other trees. Is there any possibility that you could get from one tree in your garden to another by going along the branches only. Well, the squirrels can jump from tree to tree, so they could do that, but. But not without jumping. There's no, there's no connection. There's. Okay, why are there worms in trees? Beech tree, concord tree, ash tree, it doesn't matter what type of tree, brain tree. The other point, of course, is that worms generally come out in the rain, which would minimize the likelihood of you being present to see them climbing up the tree. Yeah, quite, yeah, yeah. I'll be interested if they can climb trees, basically. But can worms climb trees? Because they form the little bit of soil where the leaves collect, where the branch comes out from the trunk, those leaves turn into leaf mold and soil and that's why I'm finding the worms in there. That is really interesting. How come you've got so many trees in chipping Norton? Are you a member of the David Cameron set? No, I've just got a big back garden and they're a bit of a pain when it was as windy as it was last night, so. Hey, I bet it is. They haven't come down. My wheelie bin blew over. Amazing scenes. Yeah, so do mine, Ian. Take care. 29 minutes after twelve. There's quite a large part of me that wants to be your mate down the pub in the role of a radio presenter, so I love the fact that we've tallied on that. 129 minutes after twelve. Questions, still in need of answers. Can spiders. Oh, it's all a bit creepy cruelly, isn't it? This week, mystery. Can a spider use another spider's web? And we've done the clouds. What's the origin of the phrase? Not me old chestnut, but that old chestnut. So if, for example, I said, oh, dear, I'm not sure we're spending enough money on the NHS at the moment. And you said, oh, I tell you what, we should use the money we spend on foreign aid and spend that on the NHS instead. I would say, oh, God, not that old chestnut. Can't we do intelligent politics now? It's 2018. That would be an exhaust. So where does that cliche. Why do you call a cliche a chestnut? And can worms climb trees? Oh, it's genius. Take back everything I said. At the beginning of this hour. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Can worms climb trees? Can spiders use other spiders webs? Have you got any questions that aren't involving creepy crawlies? Yeah. What's the origin of the phrase old chestnut, that old chestnut, to describe a cliche or a rather tired joke? And that means I've got room for more questions as well. It's only half time. Jason is in Dagenham. Jason, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Yeah, I'm a tree surgeon. And it's the answer to can worm's crime trees. I don't know that exact answer. I know that. I do get up there. They get up there, the birds do drop them, but also when they build nests, they'll have mud. They click mud and put them up there and there'll be worms inside that that they may miss out and they don't get as well. And also on old polyad points and stuff like that, if they make a nest in it, as the mud disintegrates, it sits in it and it sort of creates a pool inside that water getting there. So that'll be how it can survive there as well. Good enough. I don't know if it is, mate. Mmm. I couldn't answer if they could climb trees, but I've definitely seen them getting dropped in there by birds. So that's definitely how they get. That's how some of them get there. I find the idea of. I mean, it'll be like the ewoks, wouldn't it? In empire strikes back, a whole nation of tree dwelling creatures. You think about, they must have like every. Every trip, they'll have like five, six worms in their mouth. I know that. Yeah, but they. But they eat the worms, though. They're not. They're not giving them. They're not like landlords. Birds aren't worm landlords. They're worm eaters, aren't they? They probably won't think about checking their own nest for it. Would I. What do you do if you found a worm in your bed? I suppose you would lift them all. Yeah. You'd notice I can't give you a round of applause because the question did come down to, in the end, can worms climb trees? I would say no. A lot of insects can get there. They can get blown into it from other trees as well, because I think that's our Madagascar, but quite a lot of its insects that was through tornadoes and stuff like that. I believe. I remember watching on a documentary once as well. Yeah, but that's how the original breeding pair arrived on the island. I mean, and then from then all the other follow. But this would involve an original breeding pair of worms. I don't think worms do breed, do they? I think they might be hermaphrodite. I think they can be asexual. Yeah, but that would involve a worm getting into a tree and then spawning a colony of tree based worms. And also. Why don't they fall out? Why don't they fall out? Yeah, they probably do. Yeah. But if they don't on a grand scale, then they can climb trees. That's the closest thing to evidence that we've got. How long. How long would you survive in a trip where you're a tree surgeon, so you've got harnesses and stuff? Yeah, no, I'm sticking with that one. I'm not. Well, I'm sticking with the. No. Round of applause. But I'll review it if. Well, no, I can't let. Because you haven't answered the question. Can worms climb trees? You said? In my opinion, no. Well, in my opinion, yes. You know, sort that one out. You're not up a tree at the moment, are you, Jason? No, I ain't. Non stops. I'm just pricing today, mind. There you go. 1238 is the time. Can worms climb trees? What was the thing we were going to put on the tape on the. On the t shirt? Forgotten. Told you, my short term memory shot to pieces. Sarah's in common. Question or answer? Hi. It's a question. And the question is, why on the underground, on the escalator, do you always have to stand to the right rather than on the left? Because it. Why is that a mystery? Well, why can't it be on the. Why was. Why isn't it on the left? Why do you always have. Well, then you'd ring in and ask me why it's on the left and not on the right. This might be one of those questions that get filed under. Because it is. Someone had to make a decision. So they chose right. And if I was theorizing live on the radio, which obviously I never do, I'm far too professional, then I would probably suggest that because the massive majority of us are right handed, having your right hand on the, uh, banister, what's it called on a. Is it still called a banister on an escalator? I haven't got a clay. Nor have I, but then you'd have your right hand, your stronger hand. That's the answer. You've got your stronger hand on the stabilizing banister structure. Handrail. Okay, then. All right? Yeah. You happy with that? Yeah, I sort of am. I just wondered if it was. If there was one particular reason why it was always on the right. Yeah, because we're right. Because we're mostly right handed. Okay, hang on. They're shaking their heads at me. Why you shot. I'm going to get the round of applause. Quick, quick. Actual. Come on. Thank you. Please. Thank you. Stop shaking your heads at me. It's very discomfort, very unnerving. Max is in here, the green. Max. Question or answer? It's stewards inquiry. Oh, no, not on the last one because you were already on the line. Yeah, sorry about that. No, not on the last one. Oh. Oh, the scientist, remember? Scientist gave that answer. Yeah, I did aeronautical engineering at. Well, aeronautics at school and I was going to become an aeronautic engineer. What went wrong? Showbiz. Showbiz, was it? Roar of the grease paint, smell of the crowd. I decided I didn't want to spend the rest of my life. Go on. Anyway, so it's partially right in that it's to do with cold. But if it were just cold fronts, you wouldn't get summer rainstorms when there's high pressure and no cold fronts around. It's to do with the clouds full of moisture, and as the moisture is lifted up, then it condenses out and it falls as rain. So during the. During the middle of. With fronts, it's either pushed up by the cold air or the warm air in a front. And depending on the type of front, you get a different type of cloud. So you get lumpy clouds off of cold fronts and sort of flat, layered clouds off of warm fronts, which is why you get sort of shower clouds off of cold fronts. During the summer, when you get large cumulonimbus clouds, the air is heated up underneath by the sun, rises up through the cloud, takes the moisture in the cloud to very high altitudes where it then condenses out. And it's helped by the fact that there are dust particles in the air, so it condenses around the dust particle. Now, with very big clouds like that, because it's sort of. The raindrops keep going round and round around within the cloud. They get very big, they can also get very cold and they can freeze into hailstones, so you then get hailstones dumped on you. And the other thing is, if you want to know why Manchester is Britain's wettest city, it's because it sits to the leeward of. Or is it the windward of the Pennines? So as the warm, moist air comes off the Atlantic and the Irish Sea and rises to go over the Pennines, it dumps its load on Manchester. Can you stop saying dumps its load? Can you just say rains? Would you mind? People are having their lunch. Thank you. That's all right. No. The second wettest city in Britain is Plymouth, and that's because the rain comes off the English Channel, hits Dartmoor and rains on Plymouth. Why is Norfolk the driest county? Because it's flat as a pancake, so there's no need for the rain. Doesn't. The clouds don't get lifted up, so they don't get cold. They don't can. The water doesn't condense out and it then doesn't rain on Norfolk. And Newcastle, where I used to live years and years ago, is also a dry city because it's to the other side of the Pennines. So by the time the clouds get to it, they've lost most of their viable rain. And so it gets cold, but it stays dry. There are days when I feel I've lost most of my viable rain. I'm not going to withdraw the round of applause from the scientist. I'm going to give you an extra one, because he wasn't wrong. Good work, Max. Thank you. 1243 is the time. I just looking at Twitter, I think that Wayne embassled them and Professor Hal have arranged to meet up in person to listen to mystery hour this week. But it's all gone a bit wrong because Hal's just tweeted the details of where his office is to wane and we've only got 17 minutes of mystery left. Alex is in Croydon. Question or answer, Alex? It's a question, James. Carry on, mate. So it comes from my brother, and he sparked debate over Christmas, if I'm honest with you. Oh, yeah. So if you were stood in a field. Yeah. Okay. Straight in front of you, you have a mirror, you would see it. Let's say it's 10ft in front of you, you would see a reflection. Would you agree? Yeah, of course. However, if you were to put the mirror, let's say, a miles distance. Yeah. But you could, you know, complete clear line of sight, you wouldn't be able to see yourself back. However, if you were to look at yourself through a telescope into that mirror, would you see yourself back? Yeah. What did you stuff the turkey with this year, Alex? Who knows? Who knows? It was one of them Christmases. Rest of the family were in bed. Were they? At this point when the conversation, if you had like, a telescope a mile away from a mirror, could you see yourself in the mirror? Man? There's been a few guinnesses by that. A bit like that. I love it. Why? First of all, who was on which side of the argument, which brother said yes and which brother said no? Well, I don't know. I sort of feel like because it's not magnified from the mirror, looking back at you, you wouldn't see yourself. But then my stepdad was convinced you would see yourself. Honestly, I think. I think I'm with your stepdad. What do you think you'd see yourself? Yeah. I don't understand why you think you wouldn't. Because I'm looking at myself through it. Well, I'm looking at the mirror through a telescope, aren't I? Yeah. So the image is being magnified to the other end, yet the mirror, then looking back at me isn't being magnified. So I can't understand how I wouldn't see myself. All right, hands up if you're all listening. If you're all thinking massive attack. Hands up anyone who's thinking about massive attack at the moment, you've got. This is pure massive attack. I was looking back to see. If you were looking back at me. To see me looking back at you. There you go. Or something. All right, so you disagree with me, don't you? I do. I think one thing, but who's right? That's what I find out, man. Let's find out. Let's do this. Let's do it. If you've got a telescope and the mirror is a mile away, and you look at the mirror through the telescope. Oh, hey, come back. No, no, I think you're right. But why? No, but then again, yes, see, probably a good hour of Christmas. I can see why this year. Yeah, there you go. I can see why. Have you ever been in a lift full of mirrors? Not that sort of, but. Because it goes infinite, doesn't it? Oh, well, I'm with you. Yeah. When you've got two reflections. It goes on forever. Yeah. So I don't know if that's got anything to do with this at all. I don't know if that helps or not. Just one of my mirror based observations, Alex. Yeah, it's getting Oz. Come on. Spiders, chestnuts and mirrors. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Have I missed anything out? Oh, worms. Oh, that was close. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. He always sounds so happy, that chap, doesn't he? Doing the voice. Doing the voice of the station. I shouldn't have been joking earlier about the strength of the wind last night. We're not joking, just reflecting the fellow in chipping Norton who's trying to find out whether worms can climb trees, mentioning how scary it is having a lot of trees in your back garden when the wind is like it was last night. City dwellers like me rarely get inconvenienced more than they've been falling over, getting blown over. I did think last night, though, that the windows might rattle out of their cages, out of their frames. Shouldn't joke, perhaps because in Berkshire, as you may or may not be aware, there's a wolf on the loose after the fence of its cage got blown down in the wind. Last seen about 8 miles away from its sanctuary. I really like wolves, but I don't know that I'd want to bump into one on a dark and stormy night. 1251 is the time. Steve's in reading. Steve, question or answer? Hello, James. Loving this show today. I've got an answer for you on the worm one. Bring it on. Yes, they do climb trees. No, worms don't use a rope and harness, and they don't climb on the outside like a squirrel, but they climb up through the middle on the inside. Really? Yeah, because you've got decay. Well, not necessarily all trees, but some trees have decay in the center of the tree, and the worms can climb up through the decay because the decay is basically rotten wood. But how do they get out again at the top of the tree? The birds will take them out when they're hungry, but they're living. This has not gone well, Steve. They're living worms. They're like little worm colonies in trees. They're not like random worms that a bird has pulled out of the bark. Your man is finding worms routinely in trees while working as a tree surgeon. Well, that's because they've climbed up through the middle, through the decayed wood. Yeah, but how do they get out of the middle. How do they get out of the middle? Yeah. Because there's decay all. So like knotholes. So there's. So. So the tree is like a kind of block of flax or pruning points, for example. So there'll be a hole on the outside of the tree that will link up with the decayed wood in the center of the tree. So I can call up. So it has to climb through something rather than on something. Yeah. Worms. Not going to climb up the bark of the tree on the outside? No. Now you put it. Now I hear the words coming back at me. I realize that that was a bit of a silly suggestion, perhaps. So, yeah. This is. This is very strong work. What are your qualifications? I'm a tree surgeon. Honestly, you wait weeks for a tree surgeon and two come along at once. The thing is, you've got certain. You've got certain layers of the tree. You got, you know, you've got the bark of the cambium layer and all this lot. And the center of the tree, the main core in the center is known as the heartwood. If you've got heartwood decay, then the words. The worms. Not the words, the worms are able to get up through there and the heartwood decay is fairly commonplace. Is it? Yeah, it can be, yeah. We should. Andrew. Was it Andrew in Chipping Norton? Was it Andrew? I think it was. Should he be worried, then, if he's got worms in almost all of his trees? He's got. He's got. Ian. It was. He's got a lot of heartwood decay going on. No, it's quite common to have decay in some trees, so there's nothing to worry about. This is beautiful. From one tree surgeon to another as well. This is like a kind of. It's like tinder for trees. Don't be stupid. Oh, come on. Oh, Charles, you know what? You get a ray Liotta if you discovered heartwood decay, mate, not just for telling us about it. Round of applause for Steve the sergeant. Oh, my lord, there's two of them. Professor Hal and Wayne in Basildon are on the line. Question or answer? It's an answer. And yes, it is the mystery hour dream team of myself and Wayne from battle. Let's not get. How come there's two of you on the same phone line? This is. This is like magic. Oh, I see. He's a professor of the public understanding of the science at the University of Brighton. Which one are you going for, then? Well, I wanted to comment on the. I haven't got time for comments? I've got to squeeze in. Gwyneth, you've got 47 seconds to answer the question. Right. Your infinity mirror in the elevator doesn't work to infinity because you're ignoring me again. I said, I don't want any comments. I want an answer to the question. I changed my mind. You can do it. It's all about the resolution. Because the Hubble telescope, of course, works with mirrors and so on and so forth. So if you had the right telescope and the right mirror, you could see yourself in a mirror a mile away from the telescope. You certainly could. Right, qualifications? I'm delighted to be and privileged to be the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton with Wayne from Basildon. Who's your mate again? Wayne from Basselden. Round of applause for the boys. Nicely done. Gwyneth in Wigan with the last one. Question or answer, Gwyneth, answer. Go on. Despite the share webs. Was that the one spiders do? They share webs. Can one spider use another spider's web? Well, in foreign countries they do, but in this country they tend to have their own web. But you will see a spider in another spider's web when it's either praying on the other spider or stealing the captured flies from the other spider's webs so it can use its secret chemicals to stop being stuck to the web, even if it hadn't spun the web itself. Oh, of course. Because some sliders can have eight different kinds of silk. Different kinds of silk because they have the strongest. Yeah, that's it. Eight legs, mate. Not eight silk frame. And then they have different kinds of silk going around in the circles. Spiderologist, what are your qualifications, Gwyneth? I'm a nerd. That'll do nicely. A spider nerd. I can't. No, I'm not doing it. I crashed Sheila Fogerty's program far too often. I'm going to avoid crashing it further today. He always acted so. That doesn't matter to me. I know it doesn't, but who knows? You know, one day it's fine, it's fine. It may be other people who get bothered by it, but I certainly don't. Thank you, James. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from tamp, only on LBC.