How thick does glass have to be before you can't see through it?

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC sort of mystery 49 minutes. But don't worry, I promise you it will be strong and stable. If you've got a question that needs an answer, you know what to do. If you have no idea what this part of the program does, then just sit back and enjoy it. Seriously, we've already lost ten minutes of it, so I'm not going to inflict the usual explanation upon you. It is a lot of fun. I usually make a guarantee that you'll be laughing out loud at least once between now and close of play. But given that we've lost ten minutes, do you think that will be electorally significant? Theresa May's clearly cynical and deliberate decision to smash through the mystery hour opening and deprive of us ten minutes together? I don't know. We'll find out come polling day. Let's go to Israel first. Joe's there. Question or answer? Joe. Question. Carry on. What causes the change of accents? In other words, does it. Does the change of accent have anything to do with global positioning as you travel? As you travel west, for example, the accent seems to become more and more american like. There are certain irish accents that sound extremely american as you travel north, as though there's certain pronunciations that come extremely prevalent. Hang on. Let's not bite off more than we can chew because I mean to make. To make it into the same point. Well, yeah, I prefer to confine it to a country because everybody speaking the same language. Otherwise, it's hard to pin down an accent. The way people speaking English in other countries is going to have an awful lot to do with how they were taught. It's not going to have anything to do with geographical positioning. A lot of Scandinavians speak English within an american accent. As you take the english accent, systematically change as you travel westwards towards an american accent. Oh, you mean as you travel westwards across England, you reach Ireland. There are certain irish accents that sound extremely american. Okay, I'm a little confused by elements of the question, so I'll reframe it in my own image and just ask what causes accents? Why did people living as little as 5 miles apart speak in such demonstrably different ways? I love that question. I know it's not quite the one you're asking, but I'll try and factor in as much as possible. I don't know that anyone's come up with a definitive answer to that. There's a theory that the american accent is the sort of english irish accent from the period of the Mayflower, but I don't know how anyone would go about proving that capable or more confident that we'll be able to get an answer to a question that involves why people living just a few miles apart can be speaking in such distinctly different ways, the same language. What causes that? Zero. 345-606-0973 it's 1212. Mark is in Walthamstone. Mark, question or answer? Mark. Hello, James. Good afternoon, sir. What are you doing? I was talking to somebody. Sorry, you're on hold. I've got eight. How many listeners have I got now? 800 and something. Thousand. You can't just faff about like that when you get live on the. James. I'll be quick. I'll be quick. All right, then. Okay. This relationship with feelings and colors. Like, I'm feeling blue, I'm green with envy, I'm red with rage. Yellow is a sign of madness. How did that all come about? Probably before we could all read and write, it was used as a pictogram of type, way of conveying emotion. But I don't know, colours and feelings. That's a nice question, that good. What color are you feeling today, Mark? Purple. Pardon? Purple. Well, good luck to you. It's 12130. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you can answer that question, or indeed the question from Israel about accents. And I need answers. If you can answer any of the things that have already happened or any of the things that happen in the coming moments, then you go to the front of the queue. Greg is in Kent. Greg, question or answer? It's a question, please, Jay. Carry on. Greg. How thick does normal window glass have to get before you can't see through it? Oh, come on, mate. I mean, wouldn't you see through a top? We've all got, like, coffee tables made of glass where we've tried to look through the edge, but they may be. Maybe the thickness is just bouncing the light around too much. Gosh, it's all fun and games are yours, right? Over an evening. What do you mean? You've all got coffee tables that you've tried to look through. So you mean clearly so you can. It'll let light through, but there must be a point at which you won't be able to see completely clearly. So if it was really, really clean, you wouldn't know it was there. Yeah, like, you know, it was like a thick block? Pardon? If it was like a thick block of glass. A thick block. I had a sick flock. So what's she talking about? A thick flock? A thick block. How thick would glass have to be before. Before you can't. Why do you want to know? Just intrigue. Just what? So that's what it's for. That's a weird one, though, isn't it? Is it? Is it? I don't know. I thought it might be. It probably is. We'll find out for you. I don't know that there'll be a number. Will there. Will there be a measurement? You could say, like, 17 mm, or. I don't know. We'll find out for Greg. Seriously. Otherwise he's going to do himself an injury trying to peer through his coffee table every night. It's coming up 212:15 accents. Why? Colours and feelings, eh? Glass? How thick does it have to be before you can see through it? It's 1215, mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 19 minutes after twelve. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. 2 hours of sort of preempting Theresa May's manifesto launch earlier in the program. No doubt we'll be returning to that on LBC in the course of the afternoon. But all of the major announcements were both predicted and preempted. I have some questions on the board already this hour. Accents. Why do people who live just a few miles apart learn to speak the same language in such distinctly different ways? What's the relationship between colours and feelings? Why do we talk about being red with rage or green with envy? It may be that there's a different answer for every colour and feeling relationship. I don't know. And how thick does glass have to be before it is impenetrable to the human eye, before you can't see through it? There'd be a limit to the opacity, is the way that one Twitter correspondent put it. That's a lovely way of phrasing it. I think you're right. Let's go to Angela, who's in Peterborough. Angela, question or answer? Hello, question. Why are all the planets completely the same shape or globes type completely round? Yes, well, they're not completely round. They can be a little bit ovoid and a bit wonky. They're not like perfect circles, but they're mostly round. Yes. And I wonder. Well, actually, my husband used to wonder why, and he's died now, so I thought I'd ask his question for him. Oh, well, blimey, that's a first. Actually, it's the first time we've had a question from beyond the grave. Yeah. You never know what's going to happen, do you? I was going to have a go at answering it, but now. Now you've given it such weight and importance, I feel a little bit inadequate to have a bit of. I wonder if he already knows now, you see, you'd hope so. He's sort of plugged into some sort of omniscient power. He could be chuckling away at us now, down here, still grumbling, so he must hear these. I'm always moaning something. Oh, bless you. I think it's like if you put bricks in your washing machine. Yes. Not a good idea. No, don't do that, obviously. But if you put bricks. Because over millions of years, they've bumped into so much stuff that they've ended up getting rounded off. Yeah. I think that was the justifiable response. You know, when I started talking, Angela, I thought I had an answer in my reach, then. Yeah, all right, mate. Oh, my goodness. Stop it. I don't mind. I don't mind being a figure of fun, but I don't. I don't think I deserve to be ridiculed in this fashion, madam. Bless you. Bless you. I'm so sorry. That's quite used to being ridiculed. Are you surprised? But, you know, I missed out yesterday with a tubby boy having a big cane with a red ribbon around. He used to do press ups as a punishment, and if he won't go red in the face, and if anybody. If the teacher saw it stop, he'd whack him across the backside with a stick. Good grief. And I'm 72, so, you know, you can imagine it doesn't happen now, does it? No, it doesn't. You don't know. You're not allowed to whack tubby boys with sticks anymore. Frankly, you know, I think that might be the root of all the country's problems, Angela. So that's my answer, is it? They bump together? No, I'm going to put it on the board and get you something better, that. You deserve better than that. And so. So does your late husband. Honestly, I can't. I can't get my first ever question from beyond the grave and then fob you off with some sort of made up nonsense off the back of my top of my head, can I? When did they stop bumping together, then? Yeah. That's. You see? There you go. Yeah. I didn't realize you were an astronomer. All right, bye, Angela. Call me again, please. Why are all the planets round? Come on. Jake's in finely. Jake. Question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. Why is a piggyback actually called a piggyback? Because I've never sort of thought pigs carrying anything, really. Piggyback? Yeah, piggyback. Okay. Okay. We're only allowed one origins of phrase a week, but that's quite a nice one. I thought. I thought. I've got my glasses on. I thought you were gonna say piggy bank, and I know the answer to that one, but they're all right. Piggyback. The origin of piggyback. Yeah. We call leapfrog when we do the game piggyback. Is it because you used to carry pigs to market on your back? On your back, yeah. Of course you would. How else are you gonna carry a pig? I don't know. We surely can't carry an entire pig. Yeah, you can. A full size. Yeah. Not the younger generation. But, you know, obviously the pig is dead and you got to get it to market. How are you going to get it to market if you haven't got a cart? I mean. Well, yeah, if you're going to carry a dead pig, seriously, just imagine a dead pig. Now, you've got to get it. You're in Filey. You've got to get it all the way to Scarborough for market. All right? All right. Yeah. What are you going to do? Are you going to get. Are you going to hoist it? I thought I'd carry it on the front or drag it or something. No, you wouldn't. But you'd get it on your back and hold it by the little trotters, wouldn't you? Up on your shoulders. It'd be great. It'd be sitting like a scarf. Yeah. No, yeah, kind of like a scarf, but not wrapped. So you've got a trotter over each shoulder and then the pig's head just behind your head and the rest of it. Or. Actually, no, you might have its backside behind your head because then you'd have more sort of room to maneuver. I thought that was a good question. It is a good question. It's an even better answer. It's his win win. Everyone. Everyone's everyone's delight. I can't really go definitive on that, can I? I don't. I don't. I don't know. I don't think I can. Have you phone me before. Yes, I have. Yeah. With the penguins having knees. So I've told you about my uncle John's cottage. In file? I haven't. I. No, I don't think so. My uncle John used to have a cottage in Filey. It's not the best anecdote I've ever shared on the radio, is it? It's a lovely place to have a cottage. It is a lovely place, a long time ago, where we had to put coins in the meter. Anyway, I digress, I shall get you an answer. The origin of the phrase piggyback, I think I might have done it. But obviously thinking on your feet doesn't often go definitive. Why are planets round, accents? Why do people who've grown up just a few miles apart learn the same language in such distinctly different ways? And there's a few more on the board as well. I'm short on answers, guys, come on, get your skates on. Emma is in Hammersmith. Emma, question or answer? Well, I can actually answer, too. No, no, no, no, no. You can only do what you've told the producer you're going to do, otherwise. Otherwise the whole thing falls apart at the seams. What's happened? Hello? Hello? Yes. Your phone went funny. Sorry, can you hear me now? Yes. Is jelly a liquid or solid? And what is all, like, you know, toothpaste and stuff? Solid. Solid, yeah, but it's not. It's a paste, it's a. Yeah, but it's not. You can't pour it. That's the test. If you can pour it, it's a liquid. You can't pour toothpaste. Okay, so what about a minute? What is this, 20 questions? Stick it in a jug, stick it in a jug, pour and then see if it comes out or what point. That's it, that's the answer. So if you took jelly on an airplane, they wouldn't question it? No, that's not the point. You asked whether or not toothpaste and jelly are liquids or solids, and I told you that they're solid. They're not liquids. They're not. But when you go on airplanes. No, no, no. You're only allowed one question. No, no, no. On an airplane, do you have any liquids? And they take out all your toothpicks, so that's got more to do with sealable containers than anything else. And, you know, the definition of a liquid for the purposes of security clearances at airports may be different from the semantic definition of liquid, which is something that can be poured. Is that scientifically definite? Well, let's find out. Okay? Oh, yeah, they must be. They must be. The applause kicked in, I think you pressed that. Don't be ridiculous. Okay, well, unless anyone else rings in, I'm not entirely convinced. Well I story my life leaving, leaving callers unsatisfied. 27 minutes after twelve is the time Andy is in Bourneville. Andy, question or answer? Good morning, James, it's an answer for you, carry on. Andy, I know why planets are very cool. Got a problem? You need a Brummie. Call a Brummie and you'll get your answer. Why are planets spherical? Andrew? That's very cool. It's all down to gravity, James. When a large amount of mass comes together, it collapses in on its own gravity. Now imagine you're building a pile of sand. Yes, that pile of sand will stand on its own only up to a certain point. As you put more sand on, it will eventually collapse and flatten itself out. Yes, and it's a similar effect when massive amounts of matter come together and gravity pulls in everything at the same rate. And it's inevitable that it becomes spherical. And it's the same with stars, not just planets. So you could have an asteroid that's a bit of an odd shape, because there's not enough matter to create enough gravity to pull everything in at the same rate. But once something gets to a certain size, gravity takes over and pulls in all the, all the matter down to the atomic level in at the same rate and it becomes spherical. So there is a threshold that has something, has to be before it collapses in on itself and becomes so spherical. Love it. Qualifications, Andy? I used to be the head of the astronomical society at my grammar school. Oh, nice play. Was that King Edwards? No, Bishop easy in Sutton Caulfield. Okay, I like that. I'm gonna. I've got Professor Hal on the other line. Interest I'd be interested if he agrees with. Well, I'm gonna get him to cast a rule over your answer, so don't go away, Andy, because the applause is yours, potentially. Professor Hal. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And martial artist. How did he do? Hello, James. Hello. He had me until he started talking about sandcastles. But nevertheless, I think the explanation was opposite and accurate. And the only thing I'd add is that most planets aren't perfectly round. No, I already said that. I know I can add something to it. Yeah, all right, you're the professor. Well, you can be one too. Yeah, I know, but I'm not. You, gone fill your boots. Okay, so the spin causes the middle to bulge out more than the poles, as we discussed last week. I think toroidal was what the, the corner called it. So I like the whole expression about planets start with little bits of mass and they start getting bigger and bigger and as the gravity increases, everything gets pulled in equally from all directions. So it would inevitably end up being circular. Yeah. I mean, the whole thing, it works the other way. All sort of deep diving bells tend to be spherical because that's the best shape to withstand all the pressure from all around the sides. Because it spreads, it dissipates all the pressure. Yes. And it's entirely equal. So a square diving bell wouldn't work because you'd have areas of bigger and smaller stress, which I understand. We're digressing a bit. No, I love it. So I give Andy the applause. Yeah. Yes. Thank you, sir. Andy, this is for you. Is, um. Is Bourneville still pub free? Yes, it is, but by a strange irony, the only place you can buy a pint of beer within the Bourneville boundary is the Cadbury Social Club. I love little nuggets of information like that because of the Quaker. Quaker heritage of the area in the chocolate makers. Right. Apart from that, it's a walk to Selleo, Coors, Durchley and a stagger home. Andy, thank you very much. It's 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 1234. Is the time. Quite. There's one phone line free. Don't go on. Quickly, grab it. Questions that need answers include accents. How thick does glass have to be before you can't see through it? Why do we associate colors with feelings we've done? Why other planets around? What was the name of that lovely lady? Do you remember? We did the question for her late husband. I hope she's happy with that answer. She got double bubble. She's got professor of the public understanding, the University of Science, and Andy from Bournville as well. That's the sort of service you get on mystery act. What's the origin of the phrase piggyback? There's some dispute over whether or not my description was correct. That was Angela. Yes. I hope you're happy with that one, Angela. And jelly and toothpaste, are they liquids or solids? Some of you are suggesting I may have got that one wrong. Heaven forfend, Glenn is embassled. And question or answer, Glenn. I was going to have a stab at the accents. Answer for you, James. It doesn't fill me with confidence when people say they're going to have a stab at it. I spoke to you before. I was learning to speak old English a while back. Oh, ok. No, fill your boots then, mate. Come on. Ok, mate. So if we take the English language mostly, for example, think of it as a tree. The trunk of it is the base root, the english language. And as the tree expands and goes up, all the branches start developing different dialects. Now, this is generally down to isolation. People that develop in isolation start to pick up habits within their own little dialects of that language, slang terms, things like that, that can start to affect the language. As you were saying, it's learned behavior. You learn to speak by who teaches you. Also environmental factors, quite possibly, James, also foreign influence as well. Imagine some of the branch of the tree, for example, the english tree touches branches with a french tree next door. We start to pick up french words, adopt those into our dialect. They also start to influence our language aspect. Hence, you know, these days, a lot of people sort of, in London, they start to pick up bits of patchwa into their dialect themselves. And it's fallen into the accent, sort of into linguistic integration, you could call it. And I bet there's a link between liverpudlian accents, scout accents, and irish accents as well. Definitely a lot of irish immigration. And the main reason most english speakers understand each other a day, because we haven't developed in isolation, it's because we saturate with american media. That's why we can understand most american accents. And accents are disappearing because of the americanization of every corner of the country. And it's just the way of things, mate. I mean, I don't sound like my parents did. My parents didn't sound like their parents. You know, you pick things up, the accent, we don't sound nothing like Shakespeare did, put that way. What did he sound? He said he sort of sounded like that. Did he? It was a bit more. Yeah, that kind of seems a more sort of demotic english accent, that more west country are Anglo Saxon. But obviously, the further north you go, the more influence they've got from the Daneland and Denmark and all that. And the sax. How is your old English coming along? It's gone on the back burner for just over a year, I think now I've gone through a messy divorce. Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. No, he almost done that got me decreed this year. So well chuffed. Oh, well done. Well done. So Ferrari always says it's like. It's like going through some awful experience, but you need to know it will come to an end. I nearly called you yesterday on your one about domestic violence, so this is a much happier exchange. So you can get back on the old english horse now. Now that you've got your life back. Not yet. No, no, no. I'm hoping qualify as a personal trainer the next month or so, so. All right, crack. It's all going on for you, Glenn. Well, there we go, mate. There we go. Here you go. Is the cherry on the icing on the cake? How about that? Fine. There you go. Top man. Tom's in Sandhurst. Tom, question or answer? I've got a question. Carry on. You know when you snap a piece of spaghetti in half, why does it break into three pieces and not two, or, like, splinter, like a pencil does? Well, hang on. What's the question? The first bit or the second bit? Well, the first bit. Why does it break into three clean pieces? Because it's so long. It doesn't always. It's because it's so long. So when you bend it at the two ends, the pressure is differently. If you've got. If you snap it in half and then snap it in half again, it'll go into two pieces. It only sometimes breaks into three pieces because you. Because it's so long. No, see, I'm not convinced. If you snap it in half and snap it in half again, it still breaks. It's free pieces. It doesn't. I did it last night. Last night? Yeah. Yes. Experiment. Oh, I made spaghetti. It breaks into three. Well, actually, I break them in a massive clump. I didn't. I didn't. I didn't know. One individual. It carries on. I don't trust you, Tom. I don't trust you, Tom. I saw it in a documentary. Tried it myself. Really? Yeah. It's a Richard Feynman documentary as well. You know, the science guy. Hang on. Actually, you got any spaghetti, mate? No, we're all out of spaghetti. So what if you've seen a flipping documentary about it, why don't you watch it to the end and get the answer? They never answered. That's. That's my point. They never. They never found an answer. You get a piece of spaghetti, but the bit about the pencil is just stupid, so we'll ignore that. But you get a long pit of spaghetti. A piece of spaghetti and you snap and. You bet. Bend both. You hold it at each end and you bend it and it breaks into three pieces. It'd be. It'd be about the tensile strength of the spaghetti. That'll be the answer. But that's not an answer. Well, it is. Pedantically, it's an answer. It might not be right or even remotely relevant to the question, but if I. I think the answer is hang on. Wait there. Ian's in Red Hill. Ian. What have we got? Spaghetti for lunch. You wouldn't believe it. No way. Yes, serious. I've got a spaghetti in front of me and I thought, oh, does it? Have you cooked it? No, no, because it wouldn't break them. No, I know, I thought I was being funny. The first one I did, yeah. Went straight into four. And then I picked up one of the small bits. One of the bits, yeah. And it went into two. Yeah, sorry, sorry, pal. I mean, this, not very good radio, but I can do it live. I'll be the judge. I'll be the judge of that, mate. Gone. What you're gonna do, do me a big one. Right, okay, so I've got. I'm holding it at either end, equal pressure, thumb and forefinger. I'm bending that straight in half. Tom, mate, you're just having a laugh. Well, I stand corrected. I've done live spaghetti. Snapping on the radio. Cutting edge it is. And if it did break into more than two pieces, the answer would be tensile strength. Who gets the round of applause? I'm gonna give Tom, mate, I'm giving. Tomorrow, I'm giving Ian a round of applause for blowing your question out of the water. Carry on, Ian. Hang on, don't go yet. What sort of sauce you having? Just some sort of tomatoey sauce I'm gonna make from scratch. Yeah. Good, yeah. Basil. Got a bit of basil. I have basil, yeah, Basil's there. Just there. Basil, bit. Tomato. You are Tin Tin tin tomato. No, no, no. Fresh tomato. Really? Really. Oh, I'm hungry now. 22, one is the time. Great work. Ian, we've got our second professor on the line. Professor Martin, professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Question or answer? Professor Martin, I have an answer for you. Carry on, sir. And it's Martin Smith, also martial artist. Oh, you. Oh, really? Yes. So, Professor Howe and Professor Smith, both martial artists. Well, I feel a Harry Hill moment coming on. There's only. There's only one way to settle this. How long have you been practicing martial arts? Since 1980. I would actually quite like to see you and Hal have a fight, but I'm a bit weird. Anyway. What? What? Which one are you going to answer today? It's the glass. How thick could a glass block be? Yes. Hundreds of miles. Really? Yeah. If you just think of fiber optic transmission cable that sends light down very, very, very long cables. Yeah. This isn't about letting light through. This is about being able to see clearly through. Well, when you see things, you're using light no, I know, but you can. I mean, I can describe an opaque thing to you, like light. Light goes through it and I can't see through it. So at some point, light would still go through glass, but I wouldn't be able to see clearly through it. I'm not letting you have this one. Oh, dear. No, there is a point I can get. I can get some glass and just incrementally increase the thickness of it until I can't see clearly through it anymore. I want to know where that point is. You're getting light through it. Yes, but I don't care about the light. I want to be able to see through it clearly. That was the question. I think you. At what point you see at the limit, you're not seeing clearly. So at the limit, your image is getting darker and darker. Yeah. So when it becomes. When the first incremental dark anymore, that's hundreds of miles thick. Yeah, but that's not what he asked. He wants to know when you can't see through it clearly. So at the moment I looked through the glass window on the studio, if it was really, really clean and the lights were set up in the same way, I wouldn't know it was there. How do you define clearly? Well, I just did. I just said I wouldn't know it was there. All right, let's say. So how thick does it have to be before there's no way of not knowing it wasn't there. Instead of 100 miles thick, you'd see it clearly at 75 miles. You're just making up numbers. Well, that's what he's asking. Supposed to be a professor. Yes, but he wants a real number that's been measured and proved with it, with, you know, peer reviewed evidence. It depends what you call it. Clear. Well, I told you what I call clear. Clear is so clear that you could conceivably not know it was there. Like when people walk into patio doors, 100% clear. Then it's going to be maybe a mile thick. You just made just gone 100 miles to a mile. There's no earthly way. You're getting a round of applause. Michael's in Tunbridge Wells. Michael, what's going on? Hello. I normally ring in with answer, but today I thought it'd be a question. So it's about tennis scores? Yes. Why do they go up 1530 and. Sorry, 1530 and 40 and not 1530 and 45? Why are they uneven? Any other scoring system would be even. They used to use a clock faced keep score. What's the difference? Why not 45 then? I don't know that bit, but I am right. But that doesn't explain why it's 1530. Well, it kind of does. So the gap has to be, if you've got four points, 15, 30, 40 game, you need another one for deuce. So that's probably why it doesn't go to 45. And then. And then you go to victory. That's not good enough, really, is it? Well, let's find out. Yeah. Oh, turns out it is. Steve's in Romford. Steve, question or answer? Oh, it's an answer. James Sloan. Carry on, mate. What have you got? You were partly right when you mentioned putting things on the shoulders. Shut the front door. Well, you were, but it's nothing to do with pigs. This dates back a few centuries and it started out as a phrase, pick back. Oh, really? Yeah. And what it meant was you just carried something on the back of the shoulders and then later on, the word pick pack. Just meant to jump on another ride on somebody's back or on your shoulders. But the word pig has got nothing to do with it. Qualifications? Well, my father's dead now, but he passed that information on to me a few years ago, I think. Quite a morbid mystery out. We had Angela and her late husband and now your late dad, passing on this info. Pick back. Well, that's the explanation, anyway. I think you're over the line. But why? Why pick? What did it mean, pick back again? Just remind me. Well, pick back. It was. It was to carry something on the back or the shoulders. And it's a medieval term. Yeah, I think. And then. But it meant that the load or something to carry was pitched onto someone's shoulders or their back. And then later on, the term pickpack, meant to carry something on somebody's shoulders. Or you could end like with June. Error came in, I think. And then, of course, people started calling it piggyback. Like when we say, now, he did it off his own back. Yeah. Correct. He did it off his own bat is the correct pronunciation. Oh, yeah, yeah. Round of applause. Pickaxe. Would it have pickaxe. Would that have anything to do with it as well? Pickaxe? No, about pickaxe. No. Nor do I. Never mind. It's 1246 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Ten to one is the time mystery act continues. Squeezing a few more before Sheila Fogarty. Time accents. We've done glass. I don't know that we've done. I think the answer is more complicated than a mere number. Piggyback. We've done it's nice. This going well. It's got a couple more questions. Sham is in Thornton, Cleveland. Where's that? Up in sunny Lancashire. James. Oh, lovely stuff. Question or answer? Sham. Question, please. Go on. So I've been on holiday to Cornwall a number of times, and every time I go, I seem to come across a new video that begins with tr. Now, my question is, why are there so many villages and towns in Cornwall that begin with tr? Because it's an inordinate number. Every time I go, I kind of discover a new one. Yeah. So I'm getting a bit OCD about it, Jane. You know, I see a program on tv that might be set in Cornwall and start thinking, hang on, that's the place where there's loads of towns that begin with pr. All right, trill row. Yeah. Truro, Trevelyan, Fragonni, Truin. The list just goes on and on. Trevilla, Trevilson. Trevisky. Trevisco. Well, it's probably something to do with the Cornish language, isn't it? I mean, I did Cornish language word for dwelling or I've got no idea. I don't know whether this is a good question or a rubbish one. I've got no idea either, but it's been bugging me for a few years, this one. And I tried googling the answer. I couldn't google it anywhere. I've asked cornish people. No one in Cornwall could give me the answer. So hopefully someone can. Is there another example of. Can we think of another sort of area of this country where towns have a particular. They're likely. Likely to begin with a particular collection of letters that doesn't hold true elsewhere in the country? I think Cornwall is unique in this respect because I have looked at a few others, and in terms of numbers, there's just nowhere that's got the same number of towns and villages that begin with those two letters. I like it. Yeah. Okay. I hope someone knows. Although I'm not massively optimistic, I don't imagine you are either. But we've got a few minutes. If you do know the answer, why do so many cornish towns begin with the letters tr? Call me now on zero. 345-606-0973 Matt. Sim Woolwich. Matt, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question for you. Go on. Okay, so after work, occasionally, me and the guys go and have a beer, celebrate our job well done, and occasionally we end up playing a game of dart. Oh, excellent. Yes. Good darts. Disappointing. Matt, I was on the way home listening to one of your podcasts and someone asked a question. Yes. Got me thinking about the game. I've got a question that I just can't find the answer to anywhere. My question is, why is the dartboard separated into 20 segments? Who was it that came up with that? You're just asking who invented darts? Well, I guess I'll tell you the context. The question that I was listening to, someone phoned in and said that their daughter had asked about why we only got to twelve times tables. And I was kind of thinking, I mean, this, we're pretty good at our jobs, but I mean, we're not natural mathematicians, so sometimes you've got four grown men we're playing, just standing around a dartboard trying to do the maths. Yeah. And I'm just wondering, would it not have been easier to just go with twelve? Well, it would be easier to hit a treble, wouldn't it? Well, yeah, that's why I'm bad. Be nearly twice the size. Well, I get. These are two good questions that have come in at the end. The dartboard one and the. And the double letter one. And they're either brilliant questions or rubbish ones. And only time will tell, Matt. Only time will tell. Do you listen to the podcast a lot? Anyway. What? You fancy putting it on the board for me? Yeah, yeah, it's up there, mate. That's on the board. Let's see if anyone can hit a bullseye. 1254 is the time. Mind how you go. Livio is in maid of veil. Livio. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Yes. It's to do with the glass question. And basically the professor was right. No, he wasn't. He was. He wasn't. He was. He wasn't. He said a hundred miles and then he said 75 miles, and then he said 1 mile. So he can't. Yeah. Yes, you're right. That bit he was making up. Yeah. The fact is, if the glass is optically pure, you can see through it for miles and miles and miles, because it allows the light through. The thing is, it's your eyesight that can't go that far. So even if you had a thin pane of glass and it was 3 miles away, you can see through it. Whether you can see what's being projected through it is something completely different, isn't it? Yeah, but is optically pure possible? Yes, that's what fiber optics are. But it's massively expensive. Yeah. Because you wouldn't be able to. Oh, I see what you mean. Yeah. Yeah. So what we get with ordinary glass is what we get. With ordinary glass, there are imperfections in it and the manufacturers make it just perfect enough so you can see through it for three or four mil. Got. Yeah. But if you. If you use the same molten glass and try to make something thicker, it would actually become opaque quite quickly because of all the imperfections and impurities. Yeah. And the fact is, green light apparently travels through it slightly better or is less affected by imperfections, which is why when you look at glass through the thick side of things, it always looks green. Yeah, mate. What are your qualifications? I used to sell glass and there's actually. And I can't remember, there's actually a museum somewhere that's got a massively thick pane of glass that's optically pure. Really? And you can look through it? Yeah. And it's quite. I can't remember the name. So it's one of. Why don't you sell glass anymore? Did the bottom fall out of the market? I got bored with it. No, but, yeah. No, that's basically. That's the. He was technically right. I mean, you were just trying to. No, he wasn't, but he was. All right, well, ok. All right. I'll give you a round of applause. That's lovely. What do you sell now? What about what business you in now? No, I'm not. No, no. I'm your arch enemy now. I drive a private Hyde driver, so my arch enemy. I. Good luck to you, mate. It's always the workers I'm on the side of. The organizers are different. Barry's in Norwood. Question or answer, Barry? It's an answer. Carry on. Toothpaste? Yeah. Now, I believe it to be a non newtonian liquid. I think you were right when you said it. Some that, didn't you? I think you said that. I thought that a liquid is. The definition of a liquid would be its pourability, or some people have suggested it. Will you put it in a container? It will expand to fit in the container. Yes. It's the viscosity of a liquid. It's all about the viscosity, mate. All about the viscosity. That's right. However, viscosity can change under pressure and that's the difference of pressure. So, for example, toothpaste, if you squeeze it, it comes out same as ketchup and jelly. Yes. They've got different molecular bonds to solids. Solids have got more stable molecular bonds, so they sit still. So a non newtonian liquid sits in between a liquid liquid and a solid, does it? Exactly. It doesn't follow Newton's law of pourability. What are your qualifications? Newton's law of pourability. What are your qualifications, Barry? None. But an inquiry in mind, that's all I have. Best qualification of all, my friend. The best qualification of all. 1258 nails in Sarbiton. Neil. Question or answer? I've got an answer. Change. I think you're. You're right about the tennis question. It was 1530 and 45 originally as an o'clock. Yeah, but they found 45 bit too cumbersome, so I changed to 40 for some reasons. And then, well, I think it's because 50 is Deuce. Well, love. Love was the egg, yes. But I only found this out from an old gentleman. Came for treatment in my chiropractic clinic, and he played Fred Perry at Wimbledon before the war and was giving me a lesson in the history of tennis. Oh, well, I'll give you a round of applause for that and for confirming that I was right all along, which everyone listening knew. Jonathan's in Clackett Lane. Question or answer, Jonathan? The answer. It's the tree in tonal. Where have you been? I haven't spoken to you for ages, James. I can tell you that. All right. I'm a member of the CMI. Cornish military intelligence. Okay. I apologize for bringing that out into the. Are you all right, though? Have you been looking after yourself? Well, I'm extremely well, thank you very much. Because I would have said, you know, I would have said, where's Cornish, Jonathan, when you need him? But I didn't because I hadn't spoken to you for so long. And now you're here. No, I've been here, but I'm a driver, actually, James. I'm just so busy, which is good. The last years, our company's been extremely missed, you know, I've missed you, man. Well, do you know what? I can even get you when I'm out. I can never be able to listen outside London. But now with the new LBC app, just never. No, you can't get rid of me. We're all over the place. I can hear you from everywhere. I'm late for Toshila's itching to get going. Why do so many cornish towns begin with the letters Tr? Tre is. Tre, not. Tr isn't the same, but Tre means farmer. Homestead. So Trenaren would be the home of homestead of Narrans. Treverban would be the homestead of farmer. The verbums. So tre means homestead of farm. But Truro's different. Tr on its own, doesn't have that. I mean, that's it. That fellow you heard the question. He looked everywhere. He'd searched high and low, out. And you've nailed it. Mitten dies. Good day. So, mitten die to you. Yaksa. Good health. Yeah, yaks. Yeah. Yakasta. Lovely to talk to you as usual, mate. I missed you, Jonathan. God bless you and all who sail in you. He's back. Cornice. Jonathan's back. And now Sheila Foggatt is here. Something there. So the trees. Grand, wasn't. It's like bally in Northern Ireland. I was about to say that. Yeah. Like bally common. Bally Hayes. Bally. Whatever. Tree ballet. Go backwards. Are we done? Yeah. Thank you. Have a great.