Why X symbolises a kiss

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where a little light relief will be even more welcome, perhaps, than usual. This is the mystery hour, your weekly opportunity. What's Steve Allen calling it this week? Do we know? Is it the antiques hour? The magical hour? The musical hour? The Antiques Roadshow? I don't know. It's none of the above. It's the mystery hour, where we solve mysteries together. I solved some of them. You solve most of them. The way it works is thus you ring in with a question to which you're pretty sure there must be an answer. Ideally, it will be a question that either we have neither answered before nor been bored to tears by. The second bit is kind of hard to police. The dullness rule don't be dull. Never be dull, never be boring. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If your question is about motoring or something, the best way is to ask yourself. If you ask this question in a crowded room, would most people in that room be really interested in hearing what the answer was? And if you honestly think you passed that test, knock yourself out. If you don't, maybe keep it to yourself for a while. The repetition issue is possibly a little easier to police. You can go to LBC dot co dot UK comma and have a look at the archive of mystery, our questions and answers. It's good fun in its own, actually. Good one for the holidays. Kids as well. Enjoy it. But the point is, don't ring in with something that we've done. My memory is not up to the task anymore. I've got to be honest with you. Recent years, I felt more and more slipping through the holes of my sieve like brain. So you could quite easily ring in with a question that someone else asked last week, and I'm not going to remember, and whether or not anybody else on the team is on the board enough to spot it. If I don't, we'll have to wait and see. So there you go. Those are the rules. Who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence, wherefore. Any other interrogative pronouns that I may have missed off my list? I don't think so. But anything like that. Why do we do this? Where does that come from? What's that all about? Why do we do that? Ding ding, dong. How it works. Okay, zero. 345-606-0973 should we just start? Elizabeth? No. Elaine. I beg your pardon? Is in Forest Hill. Elaine, question or answer? It's. Well, it's a question. How are you? Elaine, it's been too long. I know. I know. Well, I tried to get through a few times many months ago and I got blocked. Caroline is a cruel mistress. I'm very sorry about that. And you. You. You were regular and much beloved contributor to the programme. I don't know what goes on in. In her mind but some of the decisions that come out of it are frankly strange. Yeah, I know. Anyway, to get on with another thought provoking question carry on. In deathbed scenes in films when the person in the bed dies somebody invariably leans over and close their eyelids. And what I don't understand about that is that when you're dozing or in asleep in bed your eyes automatically close because you're absolutely relaxing. So you would think in the same way as your eyelids all shut down when you're sleeping that the same thing would happen when you die. I think you're wrong. I think your science is wrong. I think it takes effort to close your eyes. And the natural. Well, if it took an effort, then you would stay awake. Well, no, you still breathe when you're asleep, Elaine. There's still lots of bodily functions that still occur when you're actually asleep. So I think. I think. I think that's the answer. Just because Occam's razor, it has to be. But I'll get someone who knows a little bit more. Well, I know you don't think so, but that doesn't mean I'm wrong. The best available answer is that actually, it doesn't. Your eyes don't shut when you relax. If you had your arm out slightly ahead of you and then you fell asleep the arm would just flop down, wouldn't it? I'm not disputing that, Elaine. We're talking about eyelids, not arms. Why have you brought arms into it? Sorry? Why have you brought arms into it? We're talking about eyelids. Well, I know, but you're suggesting it was something to do. You mentioned the heart, didn't you? No, nothing. You did. I thought you just said your heart keeps beating or something. No, your lungs keep pumping. Oh, lungs. I want lungs. Lungs. Now. Yeah. Okay. Well, you're branching lungs. I'm talking about arms. I thought it was the same, you know, all part of the body. But I'd be interested to know if there is because I just logically. See, I know, I know. When I was in a hotel abroad some 90 year old woman was causing panic. In the hotel because she kept leaning back and going to sleep with her eyes open. So everyone thought she was dead. Kicking people out, that they thought she died. Did you have to pay extra for that? I get you an answer if it kills me. Eyes open or shut, Elaine. Thank you. And I'll have a word with Caroline. She obviously isn't aware of your vip status. James is in Portugal. Are you on holiday? I am. James. Question or answer, James. It's a question. Carry on. So, as you mentioned in their glorious alcohol. You know what, actually, hang on a minute. Even I wouldn't listen to me on holiday. What are you playing at? I've got a burning question and he's answering. You've got a burning what? You're only in Portugal. Carry on. What's your question? So my question is an indian summer. Now, I know what an indian summer is, but I don't know why it's called an indian summer. Remind us what it is. Remind us what it is. So normally it's unseasonably warm and dry weather in autumn around September. So just want to know why it's called an indian summer. So the origins of when. When is summer in India? So it's not a trick question. When is summer in India? Because if you're in Australia on Christmas day, you go to the beach. So I'm just wondering when summer falls in India. Is that a silly question? Why are you sniggering at me? That's not a silly question, is it? Why are you looking at me like that? Axel? No. Maybe summer in India is in September and October, in which that doesn't sound right, does it? No, I'm not sure it is. All right. What's an indian summer? What's indian about an indian summer? What is an indian summer? Are you by the pool as we speak? I am, actually, yeah. Are you sipping a pina colada? I'm not having a cup of tea, but I'll move on to the pina colada. No, you stick with your tea. You stick with your tea. Happy days. John's in reading. John, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, John. Likewise. Right, so you stay. Stay on topic of this one, I was watching an armist walkthrough movie last night, commando. And I was watching beat people up and knock them unconscious with one punch. Yeah. And it got me thinking how if you took the average bloke five, nine, six foot, how much force measured would it take to knock someone unconscious with a punch? It's going to be different at the other end as well. Though. Yeah, but let's take the average bloke. So we've got a five foot nine bloke worth force measured by what unit? What unit or your choice? Well, what do you mean, my choice? All right. Degree centigrade. There you go. Wriggle out of that one. I don't know. What do you measure a punch with? Is it jewels? I can't. Why? The science is so embarrassing. I don't know. If you go like a next boxer, call up and say, like, it's eagle and he's an ex boxer, not a physicist. There's a word I'd like to hear Chris Eubank say, though. I'll tell you. Well, you're James O'Brien. You're supposed to get that thought. Well, we shall see. Has Eubank ever rung in? I don't think he has. So you want to know how much on average, how much force expressible in a unit of measurement that neither of us are clever enough to know off the top of our heads, how much force does it take to render someone unconscious? On average? Because obviously, you know, someone with a. With a thick head is going to be easier to knock out than someone with a thin head. All right. I think that's a poor question, John. It's not up to usual high standards. I think you probably only got put through because Caroline's sulking after being abused by Elaine. That's rude. 1212 after twelve. It's the time Lee's in. Charlie. Hello, Lee. Question or answer? Hi, James. Yes, question. Go on. All coins that I've ever seen have date stamps on them. Yeah, but I've never seen a date on a banknote. How hard have you looked? Well, I don't look every day because I was disappointed the first time I looked. Well, how hard have you looked? Well, on a banknote. Yeah, I've scoured them, but they don't need dates because they have serial numbers. That doesn't say why it doesn't have a date on it. It does because, you know, you know from the serial number how old it is. Okay, look at one in your pocket and tell me how old it is. MB 1019. Oh, 520, mate. I nearly. I nearly made a pruner myself then, because there is also the copyright, isn't there, on the back of the tenor, the governor and the company. That's when it was designed. Yeah, I know I just said I nearly made a prune of myself. It's all right, officer, but the serial number probably. Probably conveys a date, doesn't it? 19 may to someone that has a list of serial numbers. Possibly, yeah. But why do you want to know? It's just puzzled me. Every coin has a date. Yeah. It's a good question, actually. All right. Doesn't the note have a date on it? We need. What's it called again? Is it a new. What's it called again? A coin person. Oh, Lee, there's another question you need to answer. Coins. Thank you. 1214 is the time. Lee wants to know why coins have dates on and notes don't. And I think he's right. I'm just sort of checking the fiver as well. It's amazing. Radio, this. Are there any rewards left in this industry? It would win them all. Yeah, no, I don't think there's a day on that. But you do have your serial number. Maybe that is part of the answer. Dwight's in Pennsylvania. Question. Carry on. Basically, when somebody says yes or no without actually saying it, they go, is that just that behavior, or is it. Did somebody actually come up with it at some point? What? Okay, when somebody says yes, but they don't say yes, they go, mm hmm. Mm hmm. Yeah. So where does that come from? Is that. Is it just like learned behavior that you just learned growing up? Or is it. Did it start somewhere? I don't know. It's learned behavior. Yeah, I thought so. So, you know, you know those awards I won a minute ago with the last caller? I've got to give them all back now, thanks to you. Well, someone's got to make it easy for you. This is Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it's 1218. Matt wants to know why Al Gore didn't get a Ray Liotta, mate. He's Al Gore. He was invited into the studio. If we'd been talking about Al Gore and he'd rung in, then he'd got a Ray Liotta. But you don't get a Ray Liotta for being who you are and have always been. Oh, honestly, Dwight, I owe you an apology. Are you still there, mate? Yeah, sorry. No worries. Because I pointed at Axel, I thought he was going to give me a round of applause for answering your question. It went straight to the adverts, and you were halfway through speaking. I feel bad. That's all right. Are you sure? Are we cool? Are we cool? Yeah, we're cool. All right. There you go. Hang on a minute. Stay there, Axel. Good man. And the answer is. It's like nodding and shaking. Your head. In other cultures, you wouldn't use in quite the same way. Andrew is in Shepherd's Bush. Andrew, question or answer? Answer. Just to the gentleman who's asking about how much pressure or force it takes to knock out an average man. Yes. Roughly about six pounds of pressure or force square on would knock out an average size man. Qualifications? Did boxing and kung fu. What? Six pounds? You'd measure that? If I. If I punched a scale, it would go up to six pounds. Yeah. And obviously. Hang on a minute, mate. Don't punch scales, kids, all right? As in not the scales. When you punch punching bags, they have a measuring device at the back, like a scale. And that will tell you how much pounds or pressure you're hitting that punch bag or square on. I like it a lot. It's Newton's second law of motion, isn't it? Yep. But where's he gone? He didn't get his round of applause. Oh, no. Throw him one. Seriously. Andy's in Wimbledon. Andy, question or answer? Question, James. All right. You sound a bit more engaged. God. Got them. Coming to the James. Typical roulette wheel. The numbers seemingly are random, placed all over. I'm trying to work out, is there a system or is there a way to sort of work out the figures, where they're placed and how they're devised, how actually they're placed there? Yeah. You could probably have asked that question a lot more short. You could have said, how do they arrange the numbers on a roulette wheel? Okay, all right. Okay, James. All right. I've got a lot of questions on the list, mate. I want to squeeze in as many as possible. I can't be sitting here waiting for you to remember what your question is in such a roundabout, convoluted fashion. You're a charmer, you are. I do my best. I do my best. Roulette will. How do they arrange it? It's a bit like the dartboard question, but probably has a slightly different answer. Arthur's in reading. Arthur, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Arthur. It's to do with indian summers. Oh, yes. And nothing to do with India that the subcontinent, call it to do with Native Americans. Really? Had a late summer and the hunting season, mate. The phone lines gone. You stay. You stay there. We'll fix your phone line. I don't know whether we will or not. I'll talk to John in Horsham. John, question or answer? I have a question. James. Carry on. John. Okay. It's not about silverback gorillas like last week. That's for sure. Carry on. Hi, there. Right, okay. I've been with my wife ten years and the very first ever argument we had was about the fact I didn't put kisses at the end of text. And I said, it's just the letter x. Now I want to know. Christmas cards, birthday cards, text. Why do we use the letter x? I like that question, actually. I like that because the other way around, in our house, I put loads of x's on it and misses O'Brien doesn't. I always think it's a little bit kind of, you know, Curt. I'm. Well, I'm with your wife on this one. It doesn't take much to stick an x on the end. It means that, you know, I just don't get why it's a letter x. Why is it not a k? Why is it not a wa k? Well, k could look like a typo. An x. Yeah, I like that a lot, actually. I wonder what the answer is. All right, I'll see what I can do. Why do. Why is an X. Did. Why does an x denote. Because could be. Could be Christian, couldn't it? Could be something to do with a cross. Well, across. Is a cross an accident? Yeah, but it only needs to just, over the years, tilt slightly to one side and it becomes an x, doesn't it? It's true. That's how things happen, mate. That's how stuff evolves. Vauxhall, you know Vauxhall? Yeah. Do you know why it's called Vauxhall? No, I don't, actually. That one's a good one. Bloke called folks built a hall. Folks hall over the years becomes Vauxhall. That's how. That's how things happen. They evolve. They change incrementally. Well, yeah, I know our Tesco became Tesco, but that one, Cohen, wasn't it? John and I are musing each other and probably nobody else. There you go, John. Max is in Warren Street. Max. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Max. The lady who wants to know why when people pass away, their eyes are open. That was Elaine, the vip. Cruelly ignored by the producer of the program in recent weeks. Cruelly, cruelly ignored. Carry on, Max. The reason is when a person takes their last breath, they get a bit of a shock. It's a last breath trying to gasp for air. They open their eyes and that's how they pass. So. But, yeah, okay, that. That's part. That's half of the answer, at least. But no, I know. Hang on. She wanted also to know. She presumed that because we close our eyes when we're asleep. That. That is. But it involves. It involves effort to close your eyes. So if you've died with your eyes open, they're not going to naturally close, are they? No, because there's no muscle control. Yeah. Yeah. I'll give you an example. Someone's asleep and you hear a plate fall on the floor, you open your eyes immediately. Yeah, it's the same thing. You're going for your last breath. It's a shock to the system. You open your eyes immediately and then you've passed. Not just plates, of course, anything noisy, obviously. What are your qualifications? Funeral director. Oh, how's business? Slow, thank God. Round of applause for Matt. The worst thing that ever happened to me on this program involved a funeral. I don't know if I've ever told the story again. I may do one day. Debbie is in Twickenham. Debbie, question or answer? Question, please. What was Lee and Shirley's question? I've forgotten. Can you remember? It was a good one. What was it? What did Lee ask? I've written down his name. I've forgotten to write down his question. Oh, banknotes. Yes, sorry. Carry on, Debbie. Okay, so when I watch programs like time team and various archaeology problems, they're always digging down into the ground, quite way down, to see where people used to live. So does that mean that the earth is always getting bigger? Not really, no. Why not? Well, imagine if the stuff sinks. Oh, you mean like if it's built on the surface and then 20 years later it's 20 meters below the surface? Yeah, but if you go somewhere else in the world. If you go somewhere else in the world. Oddly, this is in Al Gore's film that we're talking about. In the last hour, it'll be disappearing underwater. So the overall totals will be the same, but there'll be a little bit of give and take. But worms play quite a big part in what you're describing. Okay. Every time a worm comes to the surface, it brings a little bit of soil. That sounds like that Paul Young song. Every time you go, oh, it brings a little bit of soil to the surface, and over. Over thousands of years, all the worms coming up bring a little bit of soil, and then we're shedding skin all the time, Debbie, you and I, you know, and that creates dust, and dust adds to the surface, but the earth isn't really getting bigger in any meaningful sense because. Because of the finite nature of matter, Debbie. Okay. All right. Well, thank you. No, thank you. Do you like those? I like those. Archaeology programs. John said. I just thought I'd share that. John's in Balham. John, question or answer? What's your question, John? Why is the 99 with the ice cream with a flake inserted? So cool? I don't think there's a proper answer to this. I think it's one of those ones that is shrouded in controversy and claim and counterclaim. But I think the received wisdom has got something to do with the price. Fantastic selection of noises you just made, John. I'm very grateful to you for all of them. Yeah, I've misplaced my flake. Needs to see a doctor. I'll try and find out for you. Why do we call it a 99 ice cream with a chocolate in it? A 99. Adam's in Bangor. Adam, question or answer? Hello, how are you doing? I'm all right, Adam. What have you got? Good. It's a chap who phoned up about the boxing. I mean, I think the guy who asked the question is, open the can of worms, mate. Oh, no, Stuart's inquiry already. It's not even half gone then, because it depends on, you know, your average person. So someone who isn't conditioned to take a slap. Yeah, will, probably. I mean, I don't know where you're getting the six pound thing from. Yeah, because, I mean, I almost went professional as a boxer. I was in the marines and I've done a lot of stuff, stuff on hand and combat and stuff. But you're looking at your average kind of jewels in a punch of an untrained person is about 110, I think. But the thing is, if you're hit by a professional boxer, an untrained person, he's going to need a lot less than that. So it could, you know, you can. A person gets knocked out by heavy contact with the jaw or the temple, and it'll be the cranial nerve that doesn't like being hit in the jaw. Yeah. So that switches to pitch the brain off and says, oh, I don't like this, I'm going to sleep. The temple is more to do with brain rattle. Yeah, this is a bit technical. I think you're probably right. It's a newton, isn't it? Rather than a jewel, though, that you'd measure this in. Well, I looked up the jewels bit simply because it was measured. But, yeah, you're probably right. Sorry it was mentioned. So six pairs. Those mass mass times acceleration would be part of it as well. Yeah, I think you're probably right. And it's a bit of a can of worms, this one. Like you said, what would you do? Let's reverse the roles. And you, what would you do now? Because, you know, if I'd phoned up your radio station and just made a great big horlick or something that you thought had been done and dusted, how would you. How would you emerge from this situation? With finesse. Adam. Call an expert, mate. Call an expert. You're supposed to be the expert, mate. You've got qualifications. You know your qualifications. I nearly. I could have been a contender. That's your qualification? Yes, something like that. I'll give him a round of applause. I don't know where he got six pounds from either, but it just sounds very plausible. Also, he was a boxer, so I'm not going to argue with him any more than I'm going to argue with you. You're both right. You can both have a round of applause. John's, in fact, give him another one to share. There we go. John's in Felton. John, question or answer? It's an answer to your kiss. Question at the end of text messages and letters. You. You actually pretty, pretty close. You sound surprised. Do you not listen to this program regularly? How could I posit the fountain of knowledge? Thank you indeedy. Carry on. They used to put a cross on the letters there to confirm, like, honesty. And then what they've done was they put the person who was signing the letter to send it off used to put a cross, like a kiss across the top of the cross to confirm that what they were sending out was indeed their honest part of the letter that was going out. So it was a confirmation that what they were sending out was true. That's a lovely answer. What are your qualifications? Nothing more than I read a big letter one time that was back in their christian times that was sent to a church and they were looking for funds and he put this cross on the letter and I didn't know what it meant, so I sourced it up and there we are. We are. I mean, I don't want to get all controversial, John, but we are still living in christian time. We are. But this was way, way back and as we were medieval times. Yeah, yeah. I like it. That sounds absolutely copper bottom to me. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's 12:30 and Moira Alderson has the headlines. 1234 is the time. Questions still in need of answers. Why do we call an ice cream with a chocolate flake stuck in it a 99. We didn't get the indian summer answer. Arthur dropped off, didn't he? Could we not improve that phone line? Why did we call an indian summer an indian summer? Arthur was getting close. Why do we have dates on coins but not on banknotes? How are the numbers on a roulette wheel arranged? And John asked a question about. I've written down box. Why did I write down box? On John's question, anyone remember John's question? Why have I written down box? It's quite a good question as well, wasn't it? It will come to me in a minute. Ron's in Wormley in Hertfordshire. Ron, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's a question. Please carry on, Ron. Raindrops. Oh, yes. Keep falling on my head. So they do. They did yesterday. I certainly did. Everywhere. Now, why do we get large raindrops and small raindrops? What causes that? Because sometimes the raindrops are really big, aren't they? Sometimes you get fine rain. You do? Yeah. Well, what causes the difference? Yeah, that's a nice question. Very topical, Ron, very topical. Thank you. Big raindrops and small hailstones as well. I was out in Richmond the other day. You had some hailstones, like golf balls last week. They were not like golf. Ballsy, cheeky beggar. You get away with marbles, but no one's ever seen a hailstar. But they were particularly big last weekend in. I was in Richmond park looking at the deer. Yeah, but you weren't in Broxbourne, in Wormley. No, you're right. Obviously. If I was in Richmond Park, I couldn't be in Broxborough. I'm not flipping doctor who. We had bigger balls than you did. You did not. You stay away from me with your foul innuendos. Sorry, carry on. Big raindrops and small raindrops. It was all going so well. Ben's in hole. Ben, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The roulette wheel. Why? It's organized the way it is. Yes. It's to skew it in the house's favor. So you get odd, even all the way. You get red, black all the way, and then you get your high and your low number separated as much as they can. So when you look at a roulette wheel, you never know what to bet on, because if any high numbers were put next to each other, you'd put a bundle on both of them and you'd have a better chance of. Yeah, I mean, you can, but you can bet. Look at like 1st 12 seconds, or third twelve. So you could bet all the fair twelve, all the third twelve numbers together, and know that it's all going to come up. And they've calculated it, have they? So they go, so is 49 next to one or is there? It's just something you look at it as before you put your bat. You just don't know what's going to come up it. To you, it just seems random. But to them, it knows that it's always been skewed in their favor. Are you qualifications? I like it better on a roulette wheel. I'm not buying this, mate. Sorry. You're not buying it? Well, you mean it doesn't matter? Even if it was arranged 123-4567 if it just went round in order, I still wouldn't think, oh, well, that one's bound to win. But you can bet even, you can bet low. Twelve. You can bet red and black. It's all separated out. High, low, odd, even and then red and black all the way around it. So you get red, low and then you get black, high and odd. I'm gonna have to give you a round of applause because you've just started bamboozling me with science. So. I've never played roulette. You've never played roulette and I've never played roulette. It's absolutely brilliant. Everyone should have a go. Well, you say that, high roller, when you come in. I bet they're all. They're all taking their hats off. And for it. Reaching out the hand for the tip from Ben with his pound of time. Well, a pound of time. You're right, I shouldn't mock you. That's the best way to have fun without, you know, losing your house. Yeah, exactly. I just won you this. Thank you very much. There may be room for a bit of embellishment from a croupier. But as it stands, I got no grounds for dismissing that answer. Michael's in Manchester. Michael. Question or answer? It's an answer. Bring it on. It's the indian summer one. Yeah. It's nothing to do with the country, India. It's Native Americans. And what it is is a hotter, later end of the summer. Yeah. Means the Native Americans hunting seasons longer. Is it that simple? What a lovely answer. What a lovely answer. What are your qualifications? A conversation I had this weekend that someone told me. And are they reliable? They are. Are you sure? Who? Father in law. Well, yeah, we have copper bottomed. Absolutely. Thank you very much. It's 1239 questions that still need answers. Raindrops. Why are some of them big and some of them small? We need a kind of meteorological explanation. Why is an ice cream with a chocolate flake stuck in it, called a 99. I don't think there is an answer to that, but I will keep asking, out of courtesy to the questioner. Done. The indian summer. What's John's question about? I've written down box John in reading. What was his question? Oh, honestly, I have to do everything myself. Why do coins have dates on them and banknotes do not? And we've done the roulette wheel as well. Have I missed anything? Off. Have we got anything else? 1239. And both my screens have gone dead now, so I've got no idea who's on the line. Let's just find out. Line one. Line one. Hello. Hello. Is that. What's your name? Stephanie. And where are you calling from, Stephanie? Manchester. All right, pretend that last bit never happened, all right, no problem. Stephanie's in Manchester. Stephanie, question or answer? Question, please carry on. I'd like to know. So when I was a kid, used to get 3d grasses and there would be like, a red lens and like, a bluey green lens? Yes. Now, when you go to the cinema, they give you just these basic glasses. It's got like, a gray film on them. I wondered why, if you're going to see a 3d film, you don't need those two different types of lenses. And what changed? I kind of know, but I don't know if you'll be satisfied with my answer. It's two completely different ways of creating a three dimensional image. Because if you took your glasses off when you were wearing the red and the green ones and everybody, I think, thinks of jaws three, don't they, at this point in the conversation. What? Sorry, obviously not jaws three. Jaws three was the first film anyone saw in 3d, wasn't it? Oh, I didn't see that film. Sorry. Are you considerably younger than me? Possibly. I thought everyone saw jaws three and even on. Even on paper, you'd have a green and a red fringe around the outside and that somehow, with the eye and the brain, that's how they create the 3d image. And now they do it differently. But that's not a good enough answer because you want to know what they do now different to what they did then, right? Yeah, kind of, yeah, fair enough. All right, I'll see what I can do. The shift in 3d technology going from the red and green glasses to the normal ones that we all have now. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call. Hang on a minute. Who's next? Natalie's in Loughborough. Natalie, question or answer? Question. James, please. Carry on. Okay, so, you know, you get tunnels that are built under the sea. You can travel in by a car. Are you serious? No. Yes. That's incredible. Why don't you see the fish? How do they do it? How do they keep the water back when they're putting the sections of the tunnel in? I don't get it. Do they go to the sections of the tunnel, lie on the seabed, or do they go under the sea? I'm not really sure they go under the sea. You go down under the sea. It'd be like going under the Thames, just bigger. So you don't. What, so you think it's right under the sea? Yeah, you go down. You drill down and under the sea, and then go under the sea. Like that? Yeah, the sea's really deep. Are you sure? Yeah, positive. I mean, you say the sea's really deep, but if you think about it, once you're down at the bottom of the sea, sea, sea, you don't really have much further to go to be under the sea, sea, sea, sea, sea. Do you? I don't know. Well, if the thing you were talking about was sort of just a couple of feet under the surface of the water, then your depth observation would be more pertinent than it actually is, because the difference between being on the bottom of the sea, like sitting on the seabed, and being ten foot under the sea, is. Well, I can calculate it quite easily. It's ten foot. So you think that different. You can see the different sections of tunnels when you're traveling through them? Yeah. From the inside, you know, they're not surrounded by water, they're surrounded by soil, I think, aren't they? I. That's what I'm asking, James. I don't know. Yeah. All right, clever clogs. I shall try to find out for you. Thank you very much. Although I think I'm right, but, you know, that's probably permanent. How do they tunnel under the sea? And why are there dates on banknotes but not on coins? And what was blinking John's question? Mike's in Romford. Mike, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Mike. Coins and banknotes. Oh, yes. It's a bit historical. So way back in the day, coins would have had some innate value, so they would have been made out of gold or silver or whatever. So they put a date on the coin because the. The older or younger the coin would change the value of the coin itself to a lesser or greater degree. Are you sure? Absolutely positive. And with banknotes. So it's followed the suggestion throughout the years. But with banknotes that have a serial number, the date is inconsequential because they can't garner much more value. That's a young note on an old note. So the serial number is for counterfeiting purposes only. But the only banknotes that have more value. The queen gets the very first banknote of every new bank note that comes out blinking typical. Does she really? She does. Unbelievable. 0100 qualifications? Police officer. Police officer, yes. Oh. So when you're dealing with forgery and stuff like that. So I know about the counterfeits with notes, but I've learned along a long time ago about the values of coins in history. Oh, I like this. Oh, yeah. Round of applause. No, thank you very much. Great work. Come out to quarter to one. They're flying a little bit blind at the moment, not that you need to be concerned, but I can't see any of the calls on my screen, so. Touchwood, we're getting everything. Right now. It's either Paul or Paula in Epsom. I shall be able to speak as soon as I hear the first syllable of your question or answer. Paul or Paula? It's answer and it's Paul. You didn't need to clarify. It's the raindrops. Size of raindrops. It's to do with updraft. So if you've got big clouds and an unstable day, the clouds can push the rain higher and the raindrop grows. If there's not a lot of updraft, the rain is smaller when it falls, hence why thunderstorm is heavy rain. Can you do it? Can you do it again for thick people? Okay, so on a day you have winds which go up and down. Yes. So if the wind is carrying on an unstable day, so when you get thunderstorms. Yes, you get large updrafts because you've got a lot of heat carrying water up. So as it goes up, it collects more water and eventually it gets so heavy it falls out. Yes. But if it's drizzle, there isn't a lot of updraft and you just get the small, fine rain which soaks you through. Qualifications airline park. That'll do. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312 49 is the time. What happened to 3d technology when it moved from the red and green lenses to the. To the. To the ones we got now? Why is the ice cream with a flake in it called a 99? We've done the raindrops. The tunnel. How do you tunnel under the sea. Zero. 345-606-0973 and we've done the banknotes. It's just John's question. No one can. I've written down water and box. Can anyone remember what he asked about? I liked his question as well. Anyway. Rick Sinfonan. Rick, question or answer? Hi, James. Yeah, it's a question. Carry on, Rick. It's. If all plants and plankton were to stop producing oxygen, say, tomorrow, how long would we have left? If the oxygen that's in the atmosphere, if all. If all plants. Photosynth mate, this is a little bit. It's a bit half past midnight on a Friday, just before the munchies kick in, isn't it? This question is, it's half past midnight somewhere, everywhere. How long could we last if, like, all the plants in the world stop producing oxygen? How the hell do I know? Would it be weeks? 20 minutes. That's why you've got an audience. No, 20 minutes. 20 minutes, you think 20 minutes, 22 at the outside. Depends how hot it is. Okay, yeah. You're not getting a round of applause for that. Let's wait and see. Oh, come on. It's comedy. Oh, come on. Are you all right? I don't. There's no way anyone can know that. It's sooner the cockier I get, the bigger idiot I look. Like. Slightly later in the program, in the atmosphere and we'll breathe so much per hour. Yeah. And then all the other animals as well. So how much oxygen is there in the atmosphere? Well, no, yeah, that's your starting point. Yeah, but I want to know how long that will last. I know you do. So how much oxygen is there in it? Let's. Come on, mate, let's do some science. Stop talking. Start thinking. So how much oxygen is there in the atmosphere and how much oxygen does the average. Oh, mate, you've got. Count all the fish and everything. Yeah, yeah. Mammals, mollusks, anything. Anything that breathes oxygen. Yeah, yeah. So that's the thing that's probably missing from our equation, is that we don't know. Well, no, but they'll have a ballpark figure, won't they? What, of all the things in the world that respire? Oh, yeah, go on, then. You know, that's why they know these things. Don't know. It's greenhouse gases. And just like your hairs, there's a certain percentage of oxygen in the atmosphere and that's gone up and down. I like your antennae to another dimension. We'd probably get altitude sickness first, wouldn't we? What? Oh, yeah, yeah. All right, let's see what we can do. And, well, you say that I'd frankly be amazed if we get anything close to an answer to this question. How long would we last if oxygen just stopped being produced now? So we can probably work out how much oxygen is in the atmosphere in total, but how many people are breathing it, and mollusks and all sorts of other creatures might be tricky. The bacteria use oxygen. Don't ask science questions that make you look stupid. David is in Chelsea. David, question or answer? It's your answer to the tunnel. Tunnel. How do you get a tunnel under a sea? Right. When they build the channel tunnel boring machine that they use, what they do is they dig down well below the level at the bottom of the sea. You're going along probably about 100ft below. The boring will take away the earth. And when they've taken a certain part of the earth away, they then put the segments of concrete which form the tunnel in place and bolt them together. Yep. That's pretty much what I said, isn't it? Yeah. You weren't sure whether it was done on the bottom, but you said on the bottom of the bed, but they don't. They go down below it. Yeah. If you watch the programs on the crossrail links, it showing it boring there. When it came out Canary wharf, it broke through the wall. They dug with the. I do, yeah, I've seen that. I've seen that. Cool beans. Qualifications, David? The engineer by trade but not in that, is a mechanical engineer. He's working aircraft instruments. I'll do nice work. Very good chair. We don't get enough chairs, actually, anymore. You said. We don't like to hear exuberance and excitement when we do this. Zero. 345-606-0973 Joshua's in Stockport. Question or answer, Joshua. Go on, then. Basically, there's more oxygen in algae in the water than there is in plants. So about three quarters of the oxygen that we have in the atmosphere is from algae. So if we got rid of all the plants, it wouldn't be good for us, but we'd still have a lot of oxygen. I like your answer. I know that the fellow who asked the question would just now say, all right, let's get rid of all the algae as well. He wants to know how much oxygen, if no more oxygen gets produced anywhere, how long we'd last. But I'm going to give you a round of applause for imagination. Helen is in Edinburgh. Helen, question or answer? It's an answer, Jane. Carry on, Helen. 3d glasses, updated glasses. Uses similar technology it's just much more sophisticated. What's projected on the screen is an image for the left eye, an image for the right eye. And the glasses that you wear are very clever and they split the left eye into your left eye, etcetera, and your brain puts it together and it turns into three. Why did they. I mean, how is it better than the red and green ones from the olden days? Because you can. You get a better perspective. You can. You can split everything much more, much more properly. The red and green ones split it just in two dimensions, literally. The flat image gets one way or the other, whereas nowadays you can go further back. So when we do animation, you can animate, you can have a left camera and a right camera, and then you can do it properly in space and it just looks more convincing. Yeah, I get that. And that's why the red and green thing worked on paper as well as on screen. You can draw it yourself, you can make that yourself because it's two dimensions. But in the. Nowadays, with the big marvel movies, etcetera, it's all done in 3d. So much more convincing for your eyes on the glasses. Split the images in the same. Same way. Qualifications? Helen worked in digital effects for over 15 years. That is close, isn't it? How big an industry is digital effect? Huge. Massive. Oh, you just lost yourself a Ray Liotta. Why? Because you should have said, oh, there's only three of us in the whole of the United Kingdom, and then you'd have got a Ray Liotta, but you just completely blew yourself out of the park by saying, it's huge. There's loads of us. I was, yeah, I was on the team that won the Oscar for gravity. Shut the front door. True fact. Have you touched the Oscar? Yes, I have held the Oscar. I have a photo of me with the Oscar. Yes, I have, yes. So you. You worked on a team that won an Oscar for a 3d film? Yes. That's a Raylie out, sir. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Yee ha. That was good. That was lovely. Well played, you. Come on. An Oscar. Two Oscar winners we've had on the program as well, because an inconvenient truth. Al Gore's first film won an Oscar. I think he won a Nobel Prize as well. I probably should have checked that before he came into the studio to be interviewed. Hang on, Helen, you've never won a Nobel Prize, have you? Not yet. Jog on. I'll talk to Roger Rogers in Romford. Roger, what would you like? Question or answer? I've got an answer. Not yet. She said not yet. That's a perfect answer, isn't it? What's your answer, Roger? Fully ice cream, carrie? Yes. It's a reliable sauce, I've been told. Strawberry sauce. Strawberry sauce? Yes, strawberry chocolate sauce. Anyway. Oh. 99 cm tall. Industry standard length from the cone to the tip off the ice cream. That is the worst answer we have ever had on mystery at 99 cm. Yes. Right. When did you leave school? Same time as you. Back in 86. Right. It's close. How long was your ruler? 30 cent line. 99 millimeter. But no, that's nonsense. Because you might give it a bit of a shove. Or you might just have it nestling on the top of the ice cream. It's not 99. The professional's hand. It should be 99 mm tall, but it's not. It's about 20. It's about 200. Mm. No. Yeah. Think about it. I am. Picture it. I have. When's the last time you had a 99? Thursday. He was little then. Was you outside, Enzo? Outside the kids school. I'm looking for. I'm looking for a tape measure now. Yeah, go on then. I'll wait. Right. 99 mm. That's the minimum length it should be minimum. Oh, go. It's not, mate. You're not having it. Reliable source, James. Reliable source? You're reliable. Who was your reliable source? The ice cream factory. Rod. Thank you. You've delighted us long enough. I need to call off Enzo. Where's Enzo when you need him? Peter is in Dulwich. Peter, question or answer? Hi, James. Yeah, the 99. It was all to do with the italian royal family. They had an elite guard of 99 soldiers. No chance. Nonsense. That's very cute. It was on your show before. That's how I know. I can't believe anything here on this show. The 99 elite guard of italian soldiers. Yeah, that looked after the royal family. And what's that got to do with chocolate flakes? I don't know. Anything that's elite or very nice and good. 99. That's where it came from. You did not hear that on this program. You did not hear that on this program. That's it for another day. Thank you very much indeed, Peter. I am done now. I'll hand you over to Ian Payne shortly. Majid Nawaz. I'm off on my ollibobs, but Majid Nwaz will be filling in for me. And I'm back the Tuesday after the bank holiday at the end of August. So I'll see you in about two and a half weeks. Thank you for really giving me the best job in the world. See you shortly. Here's Ian Payne. Quite moved, I think. Yeah, I am too, actually. Should we hug it out? Yeah. Thanks. It's coming up.