Why do chefs wear patterned trousers?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC James O'Brien. It is now time for your your weekly dose of lightheartedness and levity. Mystery hour is upon us. I think, actually, given the fact that we've come to it rather late, you could probably be spared one of my lengthy explanations of precisely how mystery hour works. But of course, we haven't taken any phone calls on the program for 20 minutes, and that, historically, sometimes leads to a slightly slow start. So I mentioned that to you so that, you know, if you hit the numbers now, you will get through zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need, and you will only hear me mention that number, of course, as and when I have vacancies on the old board. If you know how it works and you've got a question, you probably won't get a better opportunity to get to the front of the queue in the next few months than you do or than you have today. If you don't know how it works, I will fill you in briefly. And how brief this filling in is depends on how many people get in touch quickly and accept this invitation to curtail my customary introduction. It's about mysteries, questions that must have answers. But you don't know what the answer is. The who, why, what, where, when's wither, wherefore? Why do we do that? Where does that come from? It can be hardcore scientific, you know, something really complicated, academic and difficult, or it can be really, really silly. Slipping, forgotten again. Do you know, I woke up this morning and I had one in my mind and I absolutely said to myself, don't forget that one today. And it's gone. It slipped out of my mind. It will slip back in again every time I get in a taxi. Well, not every time, but very often when I get in a taxi, I have a conversation about this curious inability to remember the stuff that you've said to yourself since last Thursday. I must ring up on Thursday and ask him that question. I always say to the taxi drivers, I'm the same. Don't feel bad about it. I present the flipping thing and I'm always even on it. This week, Thursday morning has got as far as Thursday morning rolling out of bed thinking, I must ask that question. I really want to know the answer to it. But I didn't. I didn't. Shall we just crack on then today and do away with. Are we good? Are we good to go, guys? We're good to go. We're good to go. Let's go. 1210 Christian is in Balam. Christian. Question or answer? Question. Please carry on. Why is a cowlick called a cowlick? I was getting my hair cut the other day. My hairdresser is from the Lebanon and you said it's exactly the same in lebanese. It's called a cowlick. What is a cow? Just fill me in on exactly what a cowlick is. It's an unruly bit of hair that people frequently have where it spikes up, and I have it on one side and it's always been incredibly unruly, really. I think my whole head is a cowlick, to be honest. What little hair I've got left. None of it, really. So it's not a style? It's not a deliberate style. It's a bit of your hair that goes out of kilter with the grain, if you will, of the rest of your bonds. Yes, yes. Slightly on the right hand side. And it always seems to poke up. Doesn't matter. It has to be on one. It's a specific place. Then it. I don't believe it has to be on a specific place. I'm, you know, I'm unsure. I know I have it on the front of my head. I'm not sure where else you can have it. Could it be. And I'm not going to go definitive on this, I'm just going to throw it out there because part of the joys of mystery hour is trying to work stuff out. Could it be that if you were a little calf and I was your mum and you had a bit of pokey out fur, I'd give it a lick until it went down flat? Possibly. Could be, yeah. Then why a cow and not a goat? Because a goat couldn't reach. A goat couldn't reach your head. Or it looks like a cow has licked your head and post lick, that's when you got the bit poking out of your head. But then who would know what a head looks like that's just been recently licked by a cow? Who knows? And to have it as the same term in two different languages or countries, the Lebanon and the UK. I wondered why. Yeah. Although you are treating your lebanese barber as if he is absolutely gospel truth. He absolutely is. He promised me that he was. Fair enough. No, I like it. It's on the board. Why is a cowlick called a cowlick? Now we know what a cowlick is. How many cows can a cowlick lick? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Simon is in Littlehampton. Simon, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. It's a question. And I happen to notice, stocking up on our tonic water last weekend, that it is always titled indian tonic water, but not necessarily a brand. No, the different stores that we were in all did their own indian tonic water. But what is the connection that it is indian tonic water? Well, I happen to know. Well, I think I knew it. Yeah, I think I know it. So what it all boils down to, right, is the empire and malaria. Can you join the dots yet? Not yet. So we sent out our doughty defenders of Britannia to all corners of the earth to sort of take over and run things, India being obviously one of the biggest examples of this. And it was discovered, of course, that often they would fall foul of native diseases. Most worryingly, malaria carried by mosquitoes. And I suspect the purity of drinking water might have been pertinent to this as well. So they decided that they wanted to make something that was bottled and watertight, and therefore you could drink it without fear of typhoid or cholera. But the malaria is relevant because indian tonic water contains quite high levels of quinine. All right. And quinine, either I think, it makes you less attractive to mosquitoes or it works on the malarial bug. It certainly is an enemy of malaria. Quinine. So it was a way of getting british people in India to consume the quinine that would help them fight off malaria. Well, there you go. Are you going to take that? Well, clearly, as a gin drinker, you must. I'm more of a vulcan man myself, but I never adulterate it with tonic water. Simon. How dare you? How dare you cast Asperger's upon the hard corners of my booze consumption? Just a couple of ice cubes if I'm feeling fancy. Round of applause for me. Take care of yourself. There you go. I'm pretty sure that's true, as everyone on the programme. If you're new to it, then there is room for a steward's inquiry. If I get something wrong, then you are perfectly entitled to point it out. That holds true across all the other subjects that we discuss as well. But it's more likely to happen during mystery hour than perhaps it is during the other 14 hours of the week. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. I think we've nailed the indian tonic water, but we certainly don't know why a cowlick is called a cowlick. It refers to an unruly patch of hair. Where does it come from? Quite a few in the slavonic languages apparently there's a reference to lick, although it doesn't necessarily have to be a cow. But according to our caller, his Lebanese Barber said the word translates more or less literally into. Into his language. So cowlick in sort of both corners of the world. That's the question in need of an answer. Let's get a few more on the board. Malki is in Golders green. Malki. Question or answer? Question. It actually has to do with language as well. I've been watching something and it's all about the ancient language of Latin or Greek or whatever. What's the newest language? And I don't mean slang. What's the newest language? Why? There'd be various different definitions. Wouldn't there be sort of internationally recognized. I would put money on Esperanto. I mean, a language, as in French, Italian. It is a language. Yeah, but it's not relevant to. Yeah, it was. It was. It was a very ill. I don't know if it was ill conceived or not, but when I was at school, you could actually take lessons in Esperanto. It was. It was an invented language that was designed, considered a language. Well, you could speak it, you could write it and you couldn't understand it if you hadn't learned it. And it. But it wasn't based on a nation or upon any linguistic evolution. It was a european project, actually, to try and find a language that the whole of Europe could speak. Good grief, how times have changed. Could you imagine speaking? No, it didn't. What's the newest language? That's the language you don't have to speak. It's a language and anybody speak it. Yes, this is the newest language. Yes. I still get sent the occasional press release from the Esperanto society. It's still around, but it's not. Well, it never became as popular as obviously, the people hoped it would. So it's an international auxiliary language devised in 1887. So that's the newest language. I don't know. I mean, flipping heck. You're quite a hard task, mistress. I can't think of a newer one. But how? I mean, unless someone has invented something since, or they. I can't see how there could be a newer language than that because they might have discovered another language which hadn't been previously discovered. But it won't be new. It can't have predated 1900, can it? No, but I just wanted to know, what is the official newest language? Esperanto. Esperanto. Does that mean you're giving yourself a round of applause? No, that would be too egotistical and you know me, Maki. Not for sure. No, not at all. Ego the size of a hazelnut. All right, I shall leave it on the board. What is the newest language? Esperanto. 21 minutes after twelve. What's Esperanto for I told you so? I might need to prepare that phrase for later in the program. Shaun's in Long Melford in Suffolk. Sean, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Sean. So it's in reference to the cowlick? Yes. Now, I'm using common sense here and experience based upon the fact that I am a dairy farmer's son and I grew up with these things. Fair enough. The rogue piece of hair resembles the lick of a cow, if you imagine, like when a cow. You've seen it in adverts and things. I'm sure when a cow licks its own nose, it sort of curls up long and curly. Yeah. I mean, I'm gonna take your word for this as the son of a dairy farmer, but I just caught myself trying to do it in the studio, which is not a very. So the cow. A cow licks its own nose? Yeah, like licking its own chops. But it's got. The cows have got amazingly long tongues because I haven't got any fingers, so they can't pick their nose in a normal fashion. Well, I should imagine so. I'll be it. Get your tongue right in there. But it sort of curls up, if you remember. I think it. Was it Tinto or that had tintin, the little dog ring. Tin tin or what? No, tin tin is. Tintin has a cowlick. Yeah. He had a little cow lick on the front of his head, didn't he? And it's the same shape as what a cow's tongue looks like when it's licking its nose. Absolutely strong. You reckon? Yeah, I reckon. Yeah. Cuz otherwise, why a cow, like the fella said it could get licked by a goat or any other sort of ruminant. Whereas this is actually specific to a cow. Don't do that. Exactly. Got short little tongue. Exactly. Pathetic little tongues like Donald Trump's fingers. Round of applause for Sean. Yes. I can bring it into absolutely everything. It's a gift. 22 minutes after twelve is the time Tim's in Denmark Hill. Tim, question or answer? Good. Good afternoon, James. I've got a question and my friends have been telling me not to ask it. Why? Let's start with why they don't want you to ask it. Well, most of the time they thought he wouldn't get on air, but I proved them on there. So this one's for Fred and Dan. All right. Hello, Fred and Dan. Go on, what have we got? Okay. Why do human beings have the menopause when so few other animals do? Very, very few others. Is that true? I don't know enough about other mammals to know whether or not it is unique or very specific to humans. I think fertility drops off in other primates and things like that. But in terms of menopause, killer whales have it. Do they porpoise have it? Yeah, but the reason is. The question is why? And I honestly don't know the evolutionary advantage of menopause. Or, I mean, there might not be one, but I don't know either. I just sometimes wonder if I like the question because it piques my interest. Yeah, but I don't know if it is a proper question. Do you see what I mean? I mean, why not? I sometimes worry that questions that begin with why, if you can answer them with why not, then it's not a proper question. I think if there were a disadvantage to it, it would have been sort of sidelined by evolution, but it obviously serves some purpose. But I can't quite work out what it is. Yeah, we're social animals. Orca are social animals. So it could be that. Yeah. Or preserving the herd. Yeah, preserving the herd. The risk. But why would that. We wouldn't expect that to get bred out, so to speak, would you, in that way. I like it. You're on. Well, I think Fred and Dan are idiots, thinking that this wouldn't get on board. You've made me so happy. Thank you. I thought I might have done 24 minutes after twelve. I didn't mean it, Fred. All Dan Bradley's in Gillingham. Bradley. Question or answer? Question? The side was only because I've got a mental blockage on Gillingham, mate. And I always think in the back of my mind, it's Gillingham. It has nothing to do with you, Bradley, so please don't take that side pass. One endorsement, one in Kent. I got it right. It's Gillingham. There is also a Gillingham somewhere, but we digress. What's your question? Yeah, why don't dogs squint? So in other words, if a dog looks at the sun or he's got a bright light, they don't squint. Yet cats do. Again, I think it would. Just because they've got a different ocular biology from us and cats aren't it. I mean, why don't owls squint? Their eyes are made. I would have thought evolutionarily if I shine a light in your eyes and you can keep your eyes open and still see me, then you're less likely to tear my throat out with your teeth. So that would be the evolutionary advantage that a dog has when it doesn't shut its eyes when confronted with a bright light. Yeah. And also, what are you all going to talk about when Brexit is over? Well, I mean. Bradley, what are we talking about now? Killing an hour. Squinting dogs. Squinting dogs, mate. I've got a laugh. A bit louder and then you won't feel so embarrassed. All right? Cheers. Yeah. Martin's in esport. Martin, question or answer? Question, mate. Carry on. Why does chefs wear silly trousers? I like that. You mean the checky ones? Well, I saw. I saw a chef the other day. He had, like, flamingos all over them. Well, I mean, are you on a horse? No, sorry. I got my hazard warning. I've never had a call from someone on a horse, Nick and I have had calls off a thatcher who's often on a roof, but I'd love to have taken a call. I mean, it's probably not safe to use a mobile phone when you're on a horse. It's dangerous enough in a car. They have a patterned trouser that's specific to chefing. Yeah, yeah, okay. Yeah, I like that. I've never thought about that either. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. What's the newest language? Esperanto. Why do humans go through the menopause when so few other creatures do? Indian tonic water. We've done cowlick. We've done indian tonic water. You can stewards inquiry if you want, but it's got to be the quinine malaria india triangle. And why do chefs wear. I won't say silly, I'll say distinctive. Why do chefs wear distinctive trousers? Christoph is in Wembley Park. Christoph. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on. Why do the doors on domestic or residential properties always open inwards? Do you mean the front doors? Yeah, I said the main doors. Yeah, the main doors. Yeah, front doors. Usually that would be so that you don't clatter someone who's outside. Well, I did. That one did occur to me, but I don't know whether that would be sort of put into building regulations. For example, is it in the building regulations if I decided to build a house and have the front door opening outwards? I mean, is it just convention? Is it building regulations? Because it kind of occurs to me that if you're in your house. You'd want to make it as easy as possible for you to get out if there was a fire. So you'd want to open. You'd burst out, I think it is, I presume. Well, I can't give myself a round of applause. I'd be amazed if part of the answer at least doesn't involve minimizing the risk of me standing outside your door just raising my hand to knock and you opening it and sending me flying. I mean, yeah, that's what I thought of. But is that a strong enough reason for kind of making it such a. Such a. You know, you think there might be other, other reasons? I like this question. I like this question. Let's find out. And there is another one as well, linked to this, because I feel I haven't shown off my knowledge for a couple of calls, so I'll just throw in some random knowledge now in order to feed my rapacious ego. It's something to do with servants opening the indoor doors, why they open. So if you've got a door so that the servant couldn't see you if you were getting. When the servant came in in the morning, you got a warning so they couldn't see you if you were in the altogether. In fact, one of my friends re hung some of this door. Same here. I did as well in one of my. I did it in one of my daughter's rooms because it was actually took up too much space when you open. The problem is the light switch now is behind the door. He was in the fortunate position of being able to rewire his house as well, so he got the light switches moved. I'll tell you what, it's this sort of banter that has seen the audience go up by 2% on this program in the last three months. Krista. Oh, thanks. Thanks for giving me some credit, James. That's great. You're very welcome. 29 minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Why do doors always open in? Was front doors in particular? Main doors, outdoor doors, external doors. There you go. We got them. We got there in the end. Why do external doors open outwards? Why do chefs wear those distinctive trousers? Why do humans have the menopause? What's the newest language? And anything else that you want to put on the board will be happily included. It's coming up to 12:30. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we continue to voyage, I think, into the unknown. Should we squeeze in one more as we go to the. Well, I've only got 10 seconds until the news headlines. No, I'm going to hit the news headlines for once. Absolutely bang on time. Just give me a second here. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Some really interesting questions this week, and they're not necessarily the ones that I thought would be really interesting at first glance, which is more a reflection on my failures and foibles than it is upon anything more objective. But the doors opening outwards has prompted a veritable cavalcade of controversy. And the question about dogs squinting. Will you shine a light into a dog's eyes? Why doesn't it squint or close its eyes? I think we're going to hear from doctor dog again. Do you remember Vieri, who was on last week from Frankfurt and turned out to be an international animal behaviorist of high repute? So there's quite a lot to go through on this one. Um, let's crack on. Ben's in twicken. And, Ben, question or answer? Answer. Thank you, James. Carry on, Ben. Um, so why, why do we go through the menopause? Um, it's an interesting one because there's actually only five species on, on earth that do it. Seriously, is us. Yeah, us and four killer whales. Killer. Oh, four whales and us. Four. Four. Well, killer whales, which are dolphins, beluga whales, shortfall pilot whales. And narwhals are the only ones that go through the menopause. Narwhals are among my favorite creatures on God's earth. They are absolutely beautiful. They're like unicorn. They're unicorns of the sea. Yeah, except they're real Brexit. Well, maybe not. Maybe not. Global warming keeps up. Anyway, so you're discussing earlier about the social aspect, which partially explains it. Yeah, but what it is, it's the effect of grandmothers. So when a female has had her offspring and she raises them, it takes a lot of effort and energy and as she gets older, she starts to have less. And so from a genetic point of view, she is better off investing in her grandchildren at that point. Right? Yes. So if you look at those other species that do it, they are. We're not. We probably did used to be actually at some point in our history, but. Matriarchal. Yes. In the sense that the, the group is revolved around the females. Yes. And so she has her children and they are raised as a group, and then it's her daughter's turn to have their children. And so instead of competing in the group, instead of competing with her daughters for protection of the group and trying to protect her own children, trying to feed them, all of those sorts of things. Tribal. Well, in the sense or community, family. It's not about individual evolution, it's about social evolution. Well, yes, and actually you can pin it back to individual evolution of the gene at least. So when a female has, or when anybody has a child, they carry half their genes. Now, when those children have children, they are carrying a quarter of the genes of the original. So by the time you get down to those grandchildren, there's more than four of them. So from a genetic point of view, the original female is better off ensuring that her grandchildren survive to have more children. So you had five or six of them or eight or twelve. So it's a pure numbers game. So it's post Darwin. It's post Darwin this because, well, I mean, actually, I mean, this is, I mean, this is an interesting one because this was brought up, this was first hypothesized with behavioral genetics and sort of the fifties and the sixties. Yes. And essentially what it comes down to is that evolution is not working on an individual. It's not working. That's what I mean. Yes, exactly. It works on an individual gene. And so the genes, from a genetic point of view, those genes need individuals fit when those genes are passed on. Sure. So you could either have two of your own children passing on your genes, or four of your grandchildren and so on. So I get it. If you have four children and they each have four children or five children or whatever, by the time you get down to there, you've got so many of your own genes going down there that, um, that actually you are, from a fitness point of view, better off than just trying to produce more of your own, which you've probably, you've gotten old, you may have run out of energy. It's more difficult. Tell me about it all. So, so, so that's what it is. You're on it. Qualifications biology teacher. That'll do. Round of applause to Ben. Ben, the biology teacher. That was a brilliant. Have you ever read the ant and the peacock by Helen in a cronin? Ben? I have not. May I recommend it to you? I will look at it if it is a very. She taught me many, many, many, many years ago. I hope it's still in print. If it isn't, you should be able to find a copy. It's fascinating about the things that evolution has expanded to encompass and explain, which you've just given as an example of very, very adroitly. 1240 is the time. I've got some phone lines free for questions. Actually, we've got loads of answers on the board, but we've got plenty of time to squeeze in a couple more questions. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. The other one. I sometimes do that. I lost my thread a bit when I was telling you about the questions that came in that have turned out to be a lot more interesting than I thought they would be. You've got the front door question, but the newest language, it's unlikely to be. I don't think we can accept Klingon, can we? Or made up. I know you've said, no, I'm speaking to my colleague now through the glass, because I've had so many complaints from people who've rung in to mention that these languages like Klingon or some of Tolkien's elvish languages, or even what's the one in Game of Thrones, has that been recognized as a proper language as well? But I don't think I want to take that. It has to be something that human beings use to communicate. That's fair, isn't it? I mean, that started off with human beings using it to communicate. So don't ring in and tell me that you can speak Klingon. Seriously, don't ring in and tell me that you can speak Klingon. 1241 is the time. Paul's in St Paul's. I can't let that pass. Just without a small smile. I don't know how you smile on the radio. Paul's in St Paul's. Lovely Paul. What would you like to say? Yeah, so it's about the Dora one. Go on. So it's actually a fire related issue. So if. Yeah, if you. If you think about the sort of general philosophy, if there's a fire, everyone needs to get out. If you treat a building as like a bucket of water. I just hang on. But I'm going to come back to you in 1 second. But first of all, I have to read out this. This worries me slightly. Peak mansplaining, listening to two men wrongly discussing the menopause. To be fair, it was a biology teacher talking to me. Whether he was male or female isn't really relevant. But if that is wrong, we'll take a stewards inquiry on it. Back to the front doors. So if you imagine a building is like a bucket of water, so the more holes you have and the larger the holes, the faster the water is going to disperse from the bucket. And the exact same principles to buildings. So any pinch points that you have are going to affect that flow rate. So if you have a door opening outwards, that is not going to impede the flow as much as the door that opens inwards. So all these are based on notional flow times, which is a lecture in itself, basically. There was a fire in the early 1919. Sorry, 19 hundreds. Where in Edinburgh, fire went off. They didn't tell anyone, but they told the band, keep playing the national anthem. And everyone got out within two and a half minutes. And from then that's been treated as gospel. Everyone just has to get out of a building within two and a half minutes. That's the sort of notional flow time. Okay? So that's why traditionally, if you have more than 60 people in a room, that's why doors would open outwards. So his question was, why is the open inwards? And that's more of a practicality type thing. So if you have less than 60, you can get past this because you're not really affecting that flow rate. And similarly, if you're in, say, a flat where you have like a common corridor, you wouldn't want the doors to open the corridor. Yes, of course. And you'd be whacking people left, right and center. What are your qualifications? I think I know. I'm a fire engineer. We've spoken before. Yeah, we have. On fire related issues. Yes, I thought so. So I don't think I can argue with you, can I? But other people have pointed out lots of other things. Like, for example, rain. If your front door opened outwards, then every time it was raining, you'd be pulling water back into your whole carpet, wouldn't it? If it opened inwards, rather, you'd be. You'd be bringing all the wet and out wind from outside. And also if it opened outwards and it was really, really windy out, it could get ripped off the hinges and also. Go on. Sorry. There are a number of. Yeah, obviously, like, practical reasons for it. But what I'm saying is the reason for that is because the 60 maximum. Is that a convention or a law? Is that. I mean. Well, that's a recommendation you're asking. Is it building? Yes, it is. And that is within. That is not. That's the regulation, people. That's one of the recommendations. You used to fulfill the functional requirements, which is law. You're on. Well, hang on. Is Peter in Portsmouth available? Because Paul. I've got Peter and Paul. Now, if only Peter was in St. Peter, but he's in Portsmouth. That's close. You're going to challenge Paul. Remember, he's a fire engineer. Peter, that's fine. All right, bring it. Come on, come on. You can have fire doors that work in both operations, so opening out and opening in the same as you can residential doors. There's nothing in the building regs that stipulate that the fire door has to open out or open in. We manufacture about 4000 of them a week. It's just purely. That's a strong play, Paul. He makes the doors 4000 a week. I'm not disputing that, because there are doors, as I say, that would open outwards, and that's purely for convention reasons, but ultimately, what is going to drive the direction? So I'm not talking about your store cupboards or places of special fire hazards purely for means of escape, where you have a fire door that will need to open outwards, assuming you have more than 60 people. But he is right in the sense that you will have some fire doors that will open. If I go home now and rehang my front door to open outwards, will I get into trouble? No, no. Right, there we go. So, with regards. I think I caught as part of the conversation there that the. If you had the door open in the opposite way, that the wind would rip it off the hinges. Yeah. That's. You would fit an overhead closure. Calm down, lads. It's all getting a bit. It's all getting a bit technical for me now on that one, obviously. Yeah, it's just the convention. All right, round applause both of you. Peter and Paul. God bless Peter. God bless Paul. Fly away, Peter. Fly away, Paul. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC, tying in briefly to digress from mystery, tying in very briefly with that suggestion I made in the first hour about Donald Trump and how it's now reached a point where stuff that would once have stopped traffic and being headline news around the world because of its utter unacceptability, has now become normal. He has now tweeted, in response to bombs being sent to a number of the people he has personally and specifically insulted and incited hatred against in his speeches. He's now said, a very big part of the anger we see today in our society is caused by the purposely false and inaccurate reporting of the mainstream media that I refer to as fake news. So there it is. Absolute evidence of. I mean, this is 1930s level of fascistic posturing. It just is. I mean, that's not a matter of opinion, it's a matter of historical fact. He is repeatedly revealed to have lied. My favourite, probably when he said that, he said would instead of wouldn't. Do you remember that? Then? That would have been a moment where anybody else's career was over. But, of course, what he has understood throughout all of his career is if you treat people as if they are stupid and full of hate, then you will get enough of them to buy your products or invest in your ludicrous university or whatever it may be. Treat people as if they're stupid and you will. You'll never be cold or hungry. And there it is. That's quite incredible. So CNN gets sent a bomb, Donald Trump blames CNN, Hillary Clinton gets sent a bomb, Donald Trump blames Hillary Clinton. George Soros gets sent a bomb, Donald Trump blames George Soros. I just wonder what the political affiliations of this terrorist might be. No, I don't. Oh, let's get back to mystery. Our goodness knows we need the smiles. And doctor dog is here. I speak of Vieri, of course, who is in Frankfurt, Germany, and has joined us, I presume, to answer a question about dogs, and there's only one on the board, so I will still ask you, but I think I know the answer. Question or answer, Vieri, it is an answer. Carry on. The dog's eyes. And why do dogs squint? Or rather, do they squint at all? Yes, the answer is they squint very slightly. And the reason is because dogs eyes are very different to human eyes in that, for example, they don't see red and green, but they are very good at seeing movement, but not so good at seeing differences in shade, light and darkness, because they don't need it. They need to see movement because they're predators, so they will not squint necessarily, when you shine a torch into their eyes. But what you will see is the reflection from what's known as the reflective carpet and, you know, the back of the eye, and you see that from lots of animals. But, you know, that's why you see that in the dust, why people go lamping, isn't it? That's how you also find animals in the dark, in the woods. Yes. Shine a light and then you see sunny, lots of, like, cat's eyes looking at you. Yes. So dogs have that as well? Dogs have that as well. But if you think, think, you know your dog, if you take a red ball and you place it on the green grass, she will not see it. Right. But if the Red Bull moves, she will see it. Oh, how interesting. That's one of the big differences between them and us. Also, they don't see very sharply. So they, you know, they tend to see on a scale of, you know, one to ten, where ten is perfectly sharp, they'll see a five or six. So, you know, they're going through a foggy world, essentially. So, of course, they've got their nose to see the world much better than we have. Yeah. So, of course, just completely different creatures. But is there an evolutionary explanation for this? Yeah, it's specialization. Go on. Dogs are specialized predators. Hunting originally impacts. So that's why they communicate through body language and not vocalization. They don't sort of say, hey, look, there's a deer. The deer is going to run away. Yes. So they'll communicate through body language and they will identify anything that moves. That's why they've got such good eyes. But even better, of course, they're not. So they can identify things which are miles and miles and miles away and go after them, trail them. Beautiful answer. I mean. I mean, this is. I look forward to you answering more questions about dog. You've got that ability. I'm sure that you've been told this before, but it's why you're so successful at doing what you do. But enthusiasm, sometimes it doesn't matter what the subject is. Enthusiasm is infectious and you have that gift, like Brian Cox, the astronomer, of making. It's great fun. It really is. Clearly it is. Clearly it is. How's your dog doing, by the way? She's still barking at the door. She's all right. I've been really busy. I don't know if you know, but I've got a book out soon and I've been doing quite a lot of promotion once or twice. Yeah, well, I thought it might have slipped through the net. I've been doing a lot of promotional work and interview, so I'm not at home much at the moment. And the kids are away for half term, so with the dog. So I haven't been able to impose my newfound skills on her yet, but I shall I reward. If you need any pointers, just give us a buzz. I shall. Thank you very much. Keep Vieri's number on file, please. Thank you very much indeed. Vieri. Round of applause. Hmm. Professor Hal is here. Why, hello, James. Hello, Hal. How are you doing? I'm all right. What do you want? I want to big you up a little bit because you are about 60% right with the Queenie Nazi. I did 50%. The question was about India. Yeah. The question wasn't about science, it was about why India? James, I'm trying to big you up, mate. All right? Go on. Quinine is indeed a prophylactic against malaria. And it didn't taste very nice. So folks used to start adding extracts, juniper berries, and not for the first time did an alcoholic drink originate from a medicinal use, absinthe or pastis perno. That used to be an extract from the artemisia absinthium, which is the giant wormwood tree. Everyone knows that. And Napoleon used to use it because his soldiers are getting tapeworms and they used to get this oily liquid out, but the soldier didn't like it, so they added liquorice, fennel and aniseed, one of several medicines that come from bark of trees. Aspirin comes from the willow tree. I know you're just showing off now. You're not actually adding anything to what I asked about indian tonic water. No, I was begging you off about the fact that quinine is indeed a prophylactic and that also comes from the tree. And that is why it is indian, is because malaria didn't become a big problem for british people until they were spending a lot of time in India. And the same with India, paleo. Paleol didn't survive the trip, so they had to make it slightly stronger. Is that right? IPA as opposed to bitter. Yeah, no, you're right. But you haven't. You haven't. I mean, I appreciate you bigging me up and all that, but for the record, you haven't actually added anything to the answer that I provided, except the word prophylactic, which even I'm not going to giggle at. I mind Al said prophylactic. I told you, the latin name for the giant Wormwood tree. That's quite a big up. Yeah, I know, but no one's asked. I mean, you know how mystery hour works better than anyone. No one's rung in and said, what's the lots of latin name for the giant wormwood tree? And I'd do a sort of brief Jacob Reese mog impersonation and then you'd ring in and provide it, and then you'd get a round of applause, but you've just phoned in with pretty much random knowledge. If everyone did that, we'd never get. We'd never get any questions answered. Well, how about I tell you a nice mystery related anecdote from my trip back from Russia, then? I can't do that, Hal. I've got people waiting with actual answers. Can you do it in 10 seconds? No. Well, should we do it next week? Because it's 1257. We'll squeeze you in next week. I want to hear this anecdote now. He's built up the tension, but Sarah's got an answer in Hampton. To what? Question or answer? Sarah? I have an answer for you, James, about the chef's trousers. Splendid. Why are they so distinctive? It's mostly for hygiene reasons, actually. When you are working in a kitchen, you shouldn't be wearing the same clothes that you sit on the sofa and cuddle your dog with. So the trousers are designed to be very specific to the kitchen. So when you go to work, you go in the kitchen and you change your clothes. Just behavior. It's a nudge theory, then? It's just a way of nudging people into behaving better. Yes, I like it. Qualifications. And it's not to do with specific patterns or anything like that? No, just something that you wouldn't wear outside, something that you would only. Unless you were Ivan, actually, who works on this program. He wears some absolutely banging trousers, but he's not a chef, so that doesn't really matter. What are your qualifications? I run a catering company. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Sarah. A lovely answer. Squeeze in, Matthew in Belfast. Matthew, question or answer? Answer. Jokes about the languages. You're going to have to be very quick because it's an appalling line and we're short of time as well. Go on. Would it not be Serbian and Bosnian and Montenegro when the eastern european bloc was broken up in the late eighties? I don't know, because Serbo Croat. Surely they didn't start speaking different languages after the. After Yugoslavia dissolved. Well, I know with fairly decent levels of confidence that Bosnian was codified then. Yeah. Yeah. This is a strong play and it allows me. Do you know the serbo crowd word for beer? No. Name a subo curro. It's really poor pivo. Ah. Used to be a party trick of mine. I knew the word for beer in a hundred different languages. You learn something every day on this show. Well, you try to. You try to give them a round of applause for being calm and interesting. That's it for me for another day. We will do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. In the meantime, the next voice you will hear belongs to. To sheila folk. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.