Biscuits in lukewarm tea?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, is it that time of week already? Five minutes after twelve is the time. Henry Morris, aka the secret toy, has a YouTube channel that I would recommend as well, if you are not a twitterer or a tweeter, whatever we call ourselves these days. But this is it, then. It's a mystery hour. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. That's it. Actually, I'm not going to do a particularly lengthy introduction, except to remind you that there are prizes or a prize. There is a mystery hour board game for the contributor who I delight in the most. My favourite contributor of the day, of the hour, of the week, will receive a brand spanking new mystery hour board game. Something that. Something that is obviously highly prized, but it is accessible from other places as well. You don't have to be a winner to get it. Well, you'll be a winner if you get it. It makes you a winner. Anyone who's got it is by definition. Oh, I'll try again. You can buy it as well. All right. You don't just have to win it, but if you do buy it, you become a winner, because by dint of owning it, you've won. You've won a little life battle. You're a winner. Woohoo. You can get it at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK, comma. You can find out the full terms and conditions for this conversation at LBC dot co dot UK. And that's it. I think we'll just crack on. Last week was vintage, so I don't want to jinx anything, but the bar is high. Particularly enjoyed. Did we get an. Yeah, we did get an answer to the pigeon question. I gave the game to the pidgin question, didn't I? I think. But anyway, who knows? Listen to the podcast. Six minutes. Oh, and that's something else I should mention. There is a podcast, a self contained podcast, which obviously you can get from global player, but there's an archive, so you can. The holidays aren't quite here yet, but very useful for long car journeys to download half a dozen mystery hours, because obviously they're not an hour by the time you've downloaded it without adverts and stuff like that. But there are loads and loads and loads going back, going back years, if I'm honest. We should actually get the date, shouldn't we? We should establish when the first one actually was. But we weren't recording it. Then. So we may never know. Should we crack on? Graham is in. Leon Sea. Graham, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I made myself a lovely hot cup of tea two days ago and unfortunately I got very busy. And 1015 minutes later, I got my lovely packet of biscuits out, started dunking, and the biscuit did not soak up the tea as well as it was when it was hot in a tepid tea, intended or lukewarm, doesn't appear to soak up the tea very well. So why does a. Why does a hot tea soak up the biscuit? Soak the biscuit more effectively than a cold tea? Yes. I like that question. Well, the benefit was I didn't drop any in the tea. Well done. That's technique. That's tech. Well, of course it is, yeah. Is it heat? I mean, the steam, it would be steaming it, softening it, with steaming, get absorbed. You've gone past the steam into the hot tea. No, no, I know, but the heat softened. But then that doesn't answer your question. Why would it? Why would hot water be more of a softening agent than cold water? Because my brain just went, is the water thinner when it's hotter? And I just dismissed that. I don't know. Thinner? I don't know the answer. I don't know the answer either. I like that. I mean, there are. I don't know whether I dreamt this or imagined it, but I think there are people who work for Macvitties and biscuit companies who do tests on stuff like this, aren't there? Because it's a crucial part. It's a crucial part of the biscuit eating experience. Yes. So someone will know. We may even be in Rayleigh otter territory if we get in a professional biscuit dunker. But obviously, I don't want to. I don't want to jump any guns. Thank you. Graham, what was your biscuit of choice, just out of interest? It was at that moment in time. It wasn't a choice. It's just all I had available was a nice. Oh, yeah, you say nice and I say nice. Actually. I don't know why. I always say a nice bit. A nice bit I like. It's not a bad biscuit. Not a good for dunk. Not a good dunking biscuit. At the best of times, though. Probably want to go with the digestive for maximum dunkability. But the physical question stands. Why would it be more absorbent in hot water than in cold or tepid or lukewarm? Thank you, Graeme. Terry's in Gurrock in Scotland, Terry, what would you like to say? Hi, James, it's a question. Why do scots people walk on the right? Pardon? How do you mean? Well, you know how in England, if you're walking along a pavement and someone's walking towards you, people naturally walk on the left. Do they? Yeah. Hang on. Just like. I'm just going to do a bit of role playing. Just walking down the road, someone's coming towards me. So if you're walking towards each other head on. Yeah. You think in England you would favor the left, you both move left to avoid each other. And in Scotland, you'd both move right. You're supposed to move right? Yes. I don't understand it. Well, I mean, you're asking the question as if it is beyond query. I just. I'm not sure I recognize that. How much research have you done, Terry? Well, I moved to Scotland two years ago, and my research is almost bumping into people a dozen times a day. Well, I mean, when did you. Did you notice it? Immediately. Immediately, yeah. And then you worked. You tried to work out what was going on and you thought, I always favor the left, and not everyone here favors the right. And that. That way, Matt. Yeah. It's just the opposite. Well, I need talk to them. I say, why do they do it? Yeah. They don't notice it. Do they know that they do it? They don't, but I don't know that. I'm english and I don't know that I recognize the left leaning side of this question. Do you, Keith? You asking someone else? Yeah, Keith. Sorry, I just needed a second opinion, Terry, that's all. Have you had it? Yeah. He's not sure. He thinks it's 50 50. I think I wait to see what the other person does and then go, oh, yeah. Well, so you have a little. That little dance. Exactly, yes. The commuter shoe shuffle. Yes. Yeah, well, I have the opposite. I just bump into people. You've had two years to recalibrate, Terry. Yeah. And I do it most of the time. It's just when I switch off, I'm thinking about something deeply and then just bump someone. We've all been there. All right, well, I mean, I may open the challenge. May be the question, may be challenged by scottish people. They may say, no, I don't. I reject Terry's question entirely. But, I mean, I'll be careful of that. I will. I talk to my friends about it and they deny they do it. Yeah, well, they might be right, though. But they do it. No. Okay, you're on. I mean, it's a question. I'm just not quite sure what the answers are likely to. It's on the board, Terry. Grateful. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's worried me for two years. Well, I don't put the pressure on me like that. We may not get you an answer. You may be worried for another. 211 minutes after twelve is the time. Jack's in Welshpool. Jack, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. I've been a. I've worked in CCTV and they've been a delivery driver for six, seven years in between and so on. And I've been wearing high visibility jackets the entire time. Yeah. Never understood how the. How does the strips. High visibility strips. How do they work? What do you mean? Like this. Like when you shine light on them. Yeah. They light up like a Christmas tree. Yeah. Like, how does that work? Well, they're fluorescent, aren't they? It's not what it is. It's just. It's material. Something like that. That would be. It has. It has. Yeah. Yeah. It has fluorescence. A fluorescent. So I was very good in school. No, I mean, mate, it's a science question and I'm sounding confident, so almost certainly I'm setting myself up for a fairly hefty fall. But it's. It reacts differently to light, to non. Non fluorescent stuff. That's what I was thinking. But I was like. I just couldn't get my head round. Is a specific material that just lights up when light is shined on it? Yes. Okay. Yes. It's called a fluorescent material, I think. But then. But that doesn't tell us how it works. Why does it light up when you sign it up? Yeah, I think that's. My question, is. Yeah, Hawaii. Is it because of the material itself? Because, I mean, when I'm looking at mine right now, and I could see little, like, bits of maybe glitter, but it looks like glitter, but it's not glitter, if that makes sense. I'm looking at it right now. Yeah. It's just. It's just baffled me now. Well, except, I mean, you've heard the word fluorescent before. Yeah, yeah, I've heard the word fluorescent before, but I've never thought of it as a material. Well, it is, but that's not the answer, because I still doesn't know how it works. I've just given it a name. I haven't given you an explanation, so we need an explanation. So what you're really asking is how does fluorescent stuff work? Yeah. Yeah. There we go. That's it. Okay. That's teamwork that is, Jack. Teamwork, mate. Perfect. Thank you, James. Well, let's hope we get an answer. 13 minutes after twelve is the time Ettie is in Kentish Town. Ettie, question or answer? Question, James. Carry on as it gets warm. Why, when it's. Even when it's really, really hot, is it almost impossible or really unpleasant to fall asleep without a blanket? You mean even. Even if you don't want the walls provided by coverage, you still need something? Well, I think the answer lies in the question, Ettie. I think you. It's like a sense memory, isn't it? And you relax only when you are in some way cocooned. Is it more than that, though? Is there sort of some. Something to do with the sarcasm rhythms or serotonin or all of these sleep things? Unlikely. Because I think if. I mean, in a really hot country, people don't have sheets. I think mostly they do. I made that up, I think. No, I made that. I made that country even not staying in a western place. What about Abu Dhabi? Covering. What about Abu Dhabi? Dubai. Close enough. Have you been there? And they had, but. Well, you've got a lot of air conditioning, though, then. So if you were sleeping in the. When I camped in Kenya. Yeah. Boiling hot on the equator, they still. Still give just tiny little sheets. And it gets cold at night. It gets cold at night even in really hot countries, doesn't it? Of course, sometimes. It was. It was horribly hot. All right, you're on. Still had to go underneath. Why? Why do you. So is that habit or is it something more than that? No, I like the question. So it is a saying. Because it's. It's. I can't sleep unless I'm under a cover, even though I'm warmer, not under a cover than I am normally at home. Under a cover, if you see what I mean. Exactly. So it's not just for warmth. What else does it. That you're on? All right. Why do we need a blanket to fall asleep? Why? Even when we're really toasty? Thank you, Ettie. I thought I might have dropped some clangers with the fluorescent question. And glancing at my inbox, it would appear that I did. Good job. Good job. I saw it coming. It's 1216, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1218 is the time. Why does a biscuit dunk more effectively in hot tea than tepid tea? Why do scottish people lean to the right when they find themselves heading directly towards another person on the pavement? Brackets. If indeed they do. Close brackets. Terry might have gone off on one there. What is it about hi vis that works? How does it work? I think it's more about the strips than the material. Was it the strips? More than the material? Anyway, you know what he's talking about. And why do you need a blanket to fall asleep, even if you're really hot already? Lovely selection of questions. Prataps in Islington. Pratap. Question or answer, Ajay? It's an answer for the tea and biscuit question. And the answer is that because there is. So tea and biscuits. When you dig dunk biscuit into hot tea, an exothermic reaction takes place, which basically means that the energy given off by the heat in the water and the tea actually starts to work on the molecules and the atoms within the biscuit. And endothermic, surely. Exothermic. It's not giving off heat. The tea is. Yeah, but the reaction isn't. No, but. Okay, yeah, but still the tea is giving off heat into a surrounding. Yeah. So it's heating up the biscuit? It's heating up. It's heating up the biscuit, yes. So when it's cold, the molecules in the water aren't moving fast enough to produce any energy. So they will still work on softening the biscuit, but it'll take much, much, much longer. So what do the molecules do? As the molecules get hotter, they move more, and because they move more, they absorb more water. That last bit, I don't get. Why would moving the molecules around make them absorb. Because the heat from the tea will cause the molecules in the biscuit to then start moving and activating. So then they will soak up the liquid. Why does a moving molecule soak up more liquid than a non moving molecule? Another example is if you put a cake into a cold oven, it's not going to cook. If you could put a cake into a warm up and it'll cook, but it'll take, say, 10 hours, put a cake into a hot oven that. Then it'll cook much faster, just because of the chemical reaction between the heat and the elements in the cake. I'm not so sure about this. What are your qualifications? A chef. And I'm a chef and also kind of obsessed with food science, because I think you're obviously right about the cake. Yeah, but I don't think you're right about the biscuit. Okay. I mean, equally. I mean, I think it's also to do with heat, to be honest. I know it's to do it. You're not going to get a round of applause for that prata. Because the question is, why does the heat make a difference? And you said it's all to do with the heat, to be honest. Of course, it's the two. So if you left the biscuit in the tea for long enough, say, for an hour, it would still be soft and dissolved. It would. So the heat makes it absorb it quicker. But we don't. I mean, you can just say molecule. I don't think I can softens the biscuit. Yeah, but you just say molecule. The heat softens the biscuit. How and why? Because it starts to activate the atoms in the molecule. So they start moving and if they start moving, then they basically. Their structural intent. I'm going to give you half a round of applause, all right, because I don't think. I'm sure Professor Hal will hopefully ring in with us. We will find out. We will find out. So take this with my compliments. Thanks, James. No, thank you. I just. There's a bit missing and it might be my understanding that's the problem with science questions. Oh, my goodness. It's like as if by magic. Professor Pratap. Pratap, come back. Yeah, I'm here. I'm here. Guess who's on the line. Professor Howe. Professor Hal's in Brighton. Professor Howell. Question or answer? James. James, if only you'd come to me soon. And pratap. Say hello to Pratap. Don't be rude. Hello, pratap. Nice to meet you. There we are. That's nice, isn't it? What did he get wrong? I'm gonna be very diplomatic about this. My answer is completely different. The one bit that was right, that as discussed, if you heat any reaction for every ten degrees, you get an approximate doubling of the rate. But my answer, which I'm hoping is a good answer, is biscuits in general, and nice biscuits in particular, have a thin patina of sugar. And what happens is if you dip it in hot tea, the rate of dissolution of the sugar is very high, so the sugar dissolves away and then the tea can find its way to all the nooks and crannies of the biscuit. And of course it swells up accordingly. In cold tea, the sugar takes longer to dissolve and therefore it, the rate of reaction is much lower and it takes that much longer for the tea to make its way into the biscuit. So I'm not buying this thing about molecules moving faster. Nor am I. But I'm going to add something else to the mix, if I may, which is fat. Yes. No, you're quite right. Because biscuits tend. We had this discussion with Jaffa cakes, didn't we? The biscuits have got higher fat content, so they've got high fat content and tend to be quite lipophilic, not hydrophilic. And therefore you have to have a much higher temperature for the water to make contact with the biscuit anyway, so the sugar and the fat will melt and that will make it absorb more. Dissolve, dissolve, dissolve, dissolve, dissolve, dissolve. Why is hot liquid more soluble? It's more solubilizing than cold liquid because solvent things being hot, if you go down to absolute zero, nothing moves. The hotter you get, the more the molecules vibrate and therefore that encourages dissolution or promotes dissolution and so forth. Oh, that's brilliant. So I give you the full round of applause, but I enjoyed Pratap's contribution. There we go. You've moved early this week, Hal. There might be another one and you'll kick yourself. Thank you, James. We shall see. It is 24 minutes after twelve. Yvonne is in Fulham. Yvonne, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on, Yvonne. Right, I've got a smallish, narrow garden. Oh, yes. Questions about spiders. And either side I've got grass in the middle, and either side I've got shrubs or roses. And I'm forever walking down my garden and walking through spiders webs. Yes. That go from one side to the other, a distance of probably a meter or maybe a bit more. And I would like to know how a tiny spider manages to spin its web from one side to the other that distance, when they can't fly and they can't jump. And it's always puzzled me how they managed to do it. Can I have a go at this one? Yeah, sure. Okay. So I want you to picture your own garden, actually. Yeah. And now there is a spider on the right hand side of the garden. Yeah. Who climbs up really high to where the top of the very top of the web will be. Yeah. And now he releases and spins. So he's sort of lowering himself down like a spider. Abseilor. Right, you got it. So he's dangling now like a spider pendulum. Yeah. And then some wind or he's waiting for some wind or he can generate some sort of motion himself and he swings. So he's got a meter long bit of. Of web. Now do you see it? A meter long with a little spider at the bottom swinging like a pendulum. And then go. Got it. He's landed on the other side and then he starts spinning his web that distance. Yeah, yeah. But that's the length of the first bit of web you see, to reach. So he spins, he keeps spinning it until it's long enough for him to reach the other side. So you'd need a pretty strong wind, would you? Not necessarily. It's only a tiny little spider, isn't it? And in fact, the act of spinning the web made. Deliver some form of kinetic energy. It may give some sort of movement as well, because, you know, it's a. It's a physical act, isn't it? So almost like a little exhaust pipe, except he's pumping out web rather than gas. Okay. Yeah. And they throw. They float in the breeze onto the other side and then wait for. I mean, it's. You know, it's an imperfect technique, but once. Once you're on, sometimes it's so high up. Yeah. Well, that's. How on earth do they do it? Well, that's why. Yeah. Okay. Great qualifications. I think we've done it. We've either done it before or I've asked someone myself how it happens. Great. Thank you very much. You sound like a satisfied customer, Yvonne. I am very satisfied. Thank you. Lovely. Round of applause, please. Thank you. Lovely stuff indeed. I. You look at them sometimes. How the heck did that tiny little thing do that? But when you think about. It's quite straightforward. Cuts and talkie. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. Hi. It's one about the reflective stripping on the fluorescent jacket. Yes. Okay. If you scale that up, it's got a texture to it. Yes. And if you can imagine a corner of a cube that's pressed into that material, what kind of dent that's going to make? It's going to make a three sided dent. Now, it was explained to us that if you cut the corner of that cube off, and it was demonstrated by firing a tennis ball machine at it. Right. You fire at those three angles, the actual tennis ball will come out the same way it went in. So therefore, if you shine a light at it, if you scale back down again, there's millions of these on the stripping, the light will hit it and come straight back out at where the light source came from. So when. Like the reflector on the back of a car, but in miniature. Yes, it's. Or the bicycle, you can see a form of sort of. A sort of pyramid y type shape inside reflectors, can't you? That's right. And it bounces out the same way it went in. So the light. Shine the light, shine on it and boom, it's shining right back at you. That's right. I don't know why he brought tennis balls into it, Kurt? Well, it was the way it was explained to us, apart from, obviously, gravity takes its toll on tennis balls, so it's going to be slightly out qualifications. I was a highways technician for 17 years. There you go. So, I mean, you needed to know why that was doing its. Doing its job. Yeah, yeah. Love it. Round of applause for Kurt. I like that. We crossed that one off as well. No, lovely one. That's it. Hi, viz spiders. Haven't done the blanket, done the biscuit. So we just need to know if. If the premise of Terry's question is correct, why do scottish people tend to veer right when they're walking towards somebody while english people veer left? And why does Ettie, and indeed almost everybody else, feel the need to have a blanket covering them to fall asleep, even if their body temperature or the situation in which they find themselves is really warm and cozy? If you can answer either of those questions. Zero 345-606-0973 and it's only half time, so there's plenty of time to get more questions on the board as well, for which the number remains the same. Zero 345-606-0973 Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 312. 32 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the mystery hour continues your weekly yadda yadda yadda. Just get on with it. Ken's in Canterbury. Ken, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Ken. I'm in my fifties and my wife is just turning 50 and she's going through menopause. Oh, yeah. And my question. My question is, do other mammals go through. Men go through menopause? You can't swap. You can't swap, Ken. No. So the cessation of the menstrual cycle, I presume they do. I mean, it makes sense. Yeah. All of my pets have been. I've only got a female dog and she's been done, so that wouldn't work, would it? But you can't. Yeah. Okay. I think that's quite an easy one to answer. You just need to know that one mammal does, don't you? And then you've got your answer. They must do. They must do. It must be something. They must be, mate. I'll give you a 50 p if it's not. But we need to know for sure. We need to know for sure. Do other mammals have the menopause? Thanks, James. No, thank you, Ken. That's a great question, actually. I never thought of that before. 1233 is the time. Terry's in Camden. Terry. Question, answer. It's a question, James. Hello, Terry. Carry on. Athletic clubs or runners running clubs, they always have the term Harriers at the end. So be it. Queens Park Harriers. Sheffield Harriers. I'm wondering why the Sidderminster Kidderminster Harriers. There you go. Yeah, they are, of course, now a very famous football club who defied all. Defied all the odds, which you mentioned regularly just last month, defied all the odds to power into the promotion place for going up from the National League north, thanks to Ross Penn's magnificent management and some sterling performances by. Yeah, I mean, but they were originally an athletics club, so the athletics club became the football club, and that is why they are still called the Harriers. I know the answer to this, as you would expect, but, no, I'm going to show. I'm going to tell you. So, are you familiar with the game hare and hounds? I've heard of the hare and hounds public house, but it's a good name for a puzzle. So we used to play hare and hounds at school and someone is the hare and then everyone else is a hound. So it's like cross country running, basically, but with a little bit more excitement baked into it with the thrill of the chase. And a hound that was used widely for chasing hares in real life was known as a harrier. Like a harrier, if you see what I mean. Chasing a hare harrier. And most athletics clubs have their origins in quite long races or cross country running. Ergo, they were harriers. The runners were harriers. Where are you, Terry? Well, okay, I have to take that. Where are you? What's the noise in the background? Oh, there's some builders. There's a house around the corner from me that's having some work done by. Look at it, Camden sounded like a sort of whale. Like a whale, as in w a I l. Not whale. So that is the answer. Why do you sound. You sound unsatisfied or unimpressed. Should I be satisfied? Everyone else puts an argument up when they end up. Some people recognize that an answer is obviously correct. Qualifications? Kidderminster Harriers fan. Looked into it over the years. God, man, I should take it on the chin. Then you are correct. Someone's not getting a board game. Round of applause for me. 1236 is the time. Deborah's in Brighton. Deborah, question or answer? Question, please. Carry on. So when you get a mosquito bite. Why does it sometimes start itching again about two weeks after you've had it? So I've had this quite a bit and so have friends. So you get the bite itches like crazy, and then it starts to calm down, it flattens, it scabs over, and then suddenly, like a week or a week and a half later, it will start furiously itching again. And I just wonder why that was. Because surely all the irritants that the mosquitoes put in must have gone by then. Well, I've never heard that before. I'm just trying to see whether I recognize it. I'm quite lucky with mosquitoes generally, as it goes. Are you? No. See, I get bitten really badly, and sometimes I've had quite bad swelling, especially on my legs. So I wonder if there's a correlation between maybe your ability to produce whatever it is you need to produce to deal with it. Okay, so a couple of weeks after it's gone, it comes back again. The itching comes back again. Is there a visible sign of it? Is there a visible sign of it? It's kind of like, you know, when you've had a bite, but it's calmed down and you've just got that kind of red mark and it's a little bit scab, mate. So it's like that. So it looks like it's healing. So it goes itchy, itchy, itchy, itchy, itchy, itchy, itchy, not itchy, not itchy, not itchy, not itchy, not itchy, not itchy, not itchy, itchy. Exactly. Itchy. Again, why? I'll find out for. Well, I'll try. I can't make any promises, but I shall try to find out for you. Thank you, Deborah. So we've got the mosquitoes, I've done the harriers, we've got the menopause, the mosquitoes, the blanket, and the scottish people walking, leaning to the right when they find themselves heading towards somebody and. Yeah, I got. Right. I don't want a stewards inquiry on the spider question. Hello? I don't want stewards inquiry. I got it slightly wrong. I'm going to correct myself on. I'm correcting myself on the spider question because I miss. I misremembered and realized shortly after hanging up the phone on Yvonne. So I have to apologize to Yvonne, who was very polite and satisfied with my answer. Unlike some people I could mention. It's not. The spider himself doesn't swing across the spider, which explains why the breeze needs to be lighter. So Yvonne asked the perfect question, but it's. So they spin out the thread and then wait for that to be blown by the breeze. The longer the thread, the better. Blown by the breeze. Very sticky tangles itself, gets stuck on the other side. And then Bosch, he's off. He's off spinning the web. All right, my bad on that, but I'm not having a stewards inquiry on it. Craig's in, leads. Craig, question or answer? Answer. Go on. Then. It's about the reason that we walk on the left or the right hand side. I think you may have misunderstood the question. Yeah. In Scotland. Yeah, go on. So we walk on the left hand side to keep your sword hand free, which was the right. Which predominantly was your right hand. Yeah. And in other countries, because of Napoleon, who was left handed, he made his french armies walk on the right hand side because he was left handed, which was his sword hand. Yeah. So then when you go to places like Scotland that have visited with a lot of tourists, the tourists don't know the rules about having to walk on the left hand side in the UK because they all tend to walk on the right hand side. But Terry is english and you think he, you know, he's going to encounter tourists outside Scotland. He's walking on the left, isn't he? Yeah, but he's. Why would there be more tourists in Scotland than there are in London? Edinburgh, there's a majority London. Yeah, but it happens in London. You walk around London, it happens all the time. Terry doesn't think it does. Or maybe Terry's wrong. That is a possibility. I mean, we've said from the start that the premise of the question may be flawed. Yeah, but if you go into the subways, there is signs that. That ask you to walk on the left hand side. I just don't think. I. Listen, you might be onto something, and I love the little bit of Napoleon knowledge, but I just don't think that the difference. I don't think the tourist angle is going to be the answer, really. But, I mean, it's the reason that we drive on the left and the right hand side as well. Historically, it's passed on, but it said countries conquered by Napoleon. So why would Scotland be more likely to have absorbed this via tourism than England? That's the problem, isn't it, with your answer, there's nothing factually incorrect, apart from that final leap of the same. The same reason that they had a vote to leave the UK. Maybe because they're just rebelling, they got a closer affinity. It's the old alliance, isn't it? As far as the Scotland, although I think that predates Napoleon. Oh, I don't think I can give you a round of applause. I mean, first of all, have you got any experience of it yourself? Don't lie to me. I've walked into people accidentally when I've been in other countries. I've done a lot of foreign travel. So they walked on the left. But you haven't compared Leith to Leeds, for example, and noted a difference, have you? No, no, no, but I mean, I said in France quite a lot. I have got it wrong. Wandered around on the wrong side of the road looking at, you know, looking in museums and what countries did he conquer? I mean, did they do it in Austria? Did they do it? Just trying to think, really. France? I don't. I don't. I. I give you a bit of a round of applause, but the only reason I can think is because of the amount of tourists that there is. So Terry is just. We need to. Where was Terry calling from? He wasn't even calling from Edinburgh. He was calling from some place I've never heard of, like boondoggle or something. But that might be that, you know, in Scotland, because you're free to roam in Scotland and it's kind of single track road. Gee, guruk, maybe there isn't any right or left hand side. It's just a single track. Yeah, but then you wouldn't. That would be the same in England. So it's. I mean, I just. I'm not. I don't know why. Maybe I'm being a bit. A bit cruel on this one. I just. Maybe. I don't think guruk is a particular tourist spot, is it? Maybe it is. Don't me now. It's. It's. It's on the coast near Glasgow. Is it? I. Anywhere coastal in Scotland is touristy, isn't it? Yeah, but anywhere coastal in England is touristy. Leeds is touristy. Craig, you've been. You've been to Blackpool. It's not particularly touristy by foreign tourists. Not anymore. No. Not everyone Leeds is, though. Leeds has got some nice tourism spots. Oh, no. And an awful lot of students. But because the students, they're very quick at learning. Yeah, I'm not having it. I'm sorry. I'm not having it. I got. I'll come back with humble pie later if that is the. But I just don't see Scotland as having a hubbub of tourism that transcends England. I just. I'm not getting it. Thank you, Craig. Gary's in Ilford. Gary, question or answer. It's a question. James, your researcher, said, I've got far too much time on my hands with this one, so see what you think. Go on. So, I was sitting in my room last week and on the computer, and then it's fly season, and there's a fly comes in the room. Yeah. And I'm listening to it buzzing and I'm thinking, oh, I wonder what note that is. Because it was a note. It wasn't just a. It was a note. Right. Yeah. What time of day was. What time of day was this? I don't know about. Sort of afternoon. Early afternoon. All right, so I wasn't on the radio, then. No, you weren't on the radio. Carry on, then. Because honestly, if it was a choice between wondering what note a fly was buzzing out or listening to the big show, I'd be quite hurt. Yeah, I know. It was definitely after you. Carry on there. Suck up, suck up, suck up. Right. So. So I went on the computer and I got this, like, note generator, and I found that the fly was buzzing a flat. Okay, that's quite interesting. I just. And I just wondered, right, you know, flies, when they take off and they land, they don't do it. They don't decelerate and accelerate, they just kind of land and then they go and they're off again, you know? So they might be. They might be decelerating and accelerating. Yeah. Incrementally. Exactly, exactly. We can't perceive that. So my question is simply, do all flies buzzer a flat, or do you get sunflies like you get these really big blue bottles? I don't know. I just. No one else is as sad as you. That's the whole point. That's the whole point. You're the man. This is your. This is you. This is your discipline now. You're the man that you should be answering this question a year from now when you've completed your studies and research. All right, so my first little bit of thought on it is, so how many have you done? How many have you done so far in your experiments? I've done about one. This is enormous. Catastrophes happen as the consequence of this kind of slapdash science, Gary. I don't think it's an empirical study. Certainly not peer reviewed, is it? That's for certain. But I've done one. So you've stuck one fly in front of a microphone near your computer and it came up a flat and you phoned me, not even in front of a microphone. It's just because I've got quite good pitch. Right. Yeah, I just. I just. I just said. What? No, is it nearest to. And it was nearest to a flat. But you did. So you did the noise yourself? No, I just. Well, in my head, right, so I listened to the fly buzzing. I thought, right, so you didn't even. The computer hasn't even analyzed the fly. No, no, no, it was me analysing it. So the computer played an a flat and you thought, that's the fly. Correct, correct. This is pathetic. No, I'm not. I'm not even joking, mate. I can't believe this. The quality of questions lately has been off the charts. This would have been a really good question. I thought you'd put, like, at least twelve flies in some sort of chamber. I haven't even been tempted since I've heard other flies to measure their note. You can't even say for sure that it was a flat? No, I can. Was that it, then? Did you just do a flat, then? Was that. Mmm. There. Was that you doing a flat? There could have been. Give me an a. Flat. Give me an a. I'm not, I'm not. I'm not pitch perfect, so I need. How do you know it was a flat, then? No, because. Because when the fly was buzzing, I had the note in my head. You know, you. If I go, that note is in your head and you go on the computer and you get the closest note and that was it, it was a flat. I mean, I don't know what to say, frankly. One fly, Gary. Yeah, one fly. One fly via you. But based on this conversation, I will carry out more research. Well, then, get back in touch when you have. Professor Hal, who was on earlier, is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. He. That's the standard, mate. Do you think he'd come on and say, oh, I heard a fly and I thought it was a fly? I reckon he might just phone in on this one. I don't think he will. We'll find out. All right, then. But, I mean, what is even easy? What even is the question that might be the only fly in the world that buzzes at a flat, might have had a cold. Do all flies buzz at a flat? That's my question. All right, all right. Do all. Yeah. Thanks, Gary. Have a good day. Buzz off. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1251 questions that still need answers. Do other mammals get the menopause? I think the Scottish walking on the right question might benefit. We should be able to get a question. Why do you still need a blanket to cover you to sleep, even when you're really, really hot? Anyway, you don't need it for warmth. Do all flies buzz at a flat? Honestly, it's all gone a bit insect based, hasn't it, in the last ten minutes. Mosquito bites that come back after a fortnight or so, so they stop itching for a while and then they start again. What's that all about? I think that covers it. Helen is in Newton Abbott. Helen, question or answer? Hello, James. It's an answer. Carry on. It's the menopause one. Oh, yes. Yeah. So I believe that orcas, killer whales, experience the menopause and live on after it. And the reason is that just. Just whales. Well, I don't know if it's. I don't know the answer to that. I know that orcas did fine. Now that. I mean, that is the answer. Is it? Do any other mammals have it? And you've answered, yes, these ones do. But, I mean, just. I'm curious now as to why it's so rare. It's fascinating. The answer is. The answer is to why it's so fascinating is because it's about the richness of the culture of their society. So if you think about it, if you've got to spend a lot of time bringing up your children and giving them a lot of knowledge, like we do, we spend, you know, 18 years bringing up our children. Longer sometimes. Killer whales, orcas, have a rich society and they have a lot to learn and so the grandmothers are useful after their breeding time has finished. Yeah. Most mammals, you know, after female natural selection, there's no point having. There's no point having the females around once they've lost the ability to breed. So, yes, so they're the places that you could look are other mammals that do have rich cultures. So you'd be looking at great apes and. I don't know, but you don't need to know. You've answered the question. So, sesame. Qualifications? I studied zoology as undergraduate years and years ago, but I was also a breastfeeding counselor and so I was very interested in parenting and it came up then, I think, rather than in your zoology studies. So orcas, killer whales have the menopause and so do humans or human women. Round of applause for Helen. That's absolutely fascinating. You won't forget that one. Actually, you feel. I forget loads all the time. Some stuff comes up forgotten it by the following week. Won't forget that killer whales have the menopause. I don't know why? Just. It will stick, won't it, that one? I'm pretty sure it will. Gordon's in Romford. Gordon, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. This is to do with the mosquito question. And when we have reactions, we talk about type one reactions, which is the ones that people would usually get where you get a lot of histamine being released at the site of the bite, but you get what we call a type four hypersensitivity reaction, sometimes called delay type hypersensitivity reaction. And this is actually where it uses the, what we call humoral immune system, the acquired immune system. And it's an antibody mediated reaction, usually mediated by the T lymphocytes. And that's why it will take a lot longer to develop and will actually take a lot longer for the bite to settle. And antihistamines usually won't work quite as well for those. But we do see it a lot in cats, really. And some. And some humans. So. Yes, but the question. Deborah's question was that she gets the response, the reaction first, and then it goes away and then it comes back. Has your answer fitted that she's got both. She's getting immediate hypersensitivity and the type four hypersensitivity. So there's two. Two reactions going on. Yes. Oh, what a brilliant answer. Qualifications? I'm actually an advanced practitioner in small animal dermatology. Wow. How small? How. So you're looking. Dermatology. How big a discipline is that? How many of you are there around the place currently, at least on the advanced practitioner list of small animal dermatology? Yeah. I think there's only about 18 of us. I think that's good. I think that's how I think. Do you listen often to the program, Gordon? It's my first time calling. I loved it. But do you know what a Ray Liotta is? You're gonna make me cry, mate. You got. You got. You got yourself on, mate. Thank you. And you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Thank you so much. Thank you. That's a beautiful answer and I love that it's only about 18. That was a moment. Wow. I got shivers. Ah, Gordon's great, mate. Thank you. Nigel's in Gosport. Nigel, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Thank you. Thank you. McCool. So it's about the. Oh, the blanket one. Yes. Why do we use it? Asleep? So you touched on a couple of points before we expand on them. So a number of reasons. Firstly, our body temperature drops when we're asleep. And naturally we need a blanket to help regulate it. It helps also to regulate moisture. So the inside drops, not just the outside, of course. Yeah. Our body temperature drops when we sleep. Also regulates moisture. Stops us. Our skin drying out. Obviously that's a pretty small one, but sensory thing. So it almost feels like we're having a hug. And that as you touched on earlier. And also melatonin, which is the sort of the natural thing our brain releases to help us sleep. And my favorite one of all is it's a routine thing, actually. The brain just thinks something's simply missing. Yep. All of that makes sense. I like the fact that there's different answers to a collection of our circumstances. What are your qualifications? I get awful night sweats. I've done nothing but research this in the past few months. Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. It's all right. Can I ask. I'm sure you. I hope this isn't inappropriate. Do you drink a lot of wine? No, I don't at all. Because I used to get night sweats. Not terrible night sweats. But when I was on newspapers I was drinking more wine than is healthy. And then I stopped. And they stopped immediately. But that's no use to you at all, is it? No, not quite. My apologies. But you got a round of applause at least. Wonderful. Thank you. Only white wine as well. A bit bizarrely, it didn't. Didn't happen with red wine. But anyway. Well, it's not really. You're just being polite. Carries in Aerith Carrie. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Right. I really cracked up when I was listening to the fly with lay flat. Because my life is just them listening to buses making certain sounds. And I'm like, that's got to be a c. That's got to be a d. Oh, really? Yeah, yeah. Because a music teacher. My husband's a d day as well. So we spend our life. Oh, did you hear that? That sounds like. Yeah, that could be in this key or all these different. Wow. Oh, wow. Go on then. My answer is that I don't reckon that they're all in a flat because of the size of the insect themselves, obviously. So like a tiny little fly is buzzing away at a right tiny little height. Like a mosquito. Yeah, exactly. It's gonna go right up there. And then you've got the real deep ones. But then if you relate it to the families instruments in an orchestra, then the smaller instruments like the violin, that will play really high pitch. And then you've got the double bass. Play really low. What do you reckon so? No way. Are they all b flat or a flat or whatever it was? I don't reckon they are. But you know what? I'm going to try and find out, because I also hate hearing flies fly around. It's my worst sound ever. But I'm going to start listening to them when I'm at home. I'm going to get the piano and I'm just going to check it out and I'll send you a little. Send you an email, let us know. So, Gary, it will be great. I mean, Gary's research was frankly pathetic, to be honest with you, but I think you've done more research just thinking about it than he did setting up the question in the first place. Round of applause for Carrie. Thank you. Beautifully done. Beautifully done. I'm hard to pick a favourite this week and I forgot to write down quite a lot of names. Who got the Harriers question right? I might give it to them. Oh, that was me. Gordon. It's got to be Gordon, hasn't it? It's got to be Gordon, the small animals dermatologist. It was just such a beautiful moment there, I felt. Gordon gets the board game. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you can, of course, also rewind live radio. You'll also find all of LBC's shows to catch up on, as well as the world's biggest podcasts, including, full disclosure, my own little effort. So rewind live radio on global player or download it for free from your App Store. Head to globalplayer.com. Lewis Goodall in for Tom Sawbrick at four. Sangeeta Meiske in for Sheila Fogarty. Now.