Like riding a bike?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time. Sometimes I get texts or messages off you that just get me right in the feels. And oddly, we got one in the last hour when we were discussing how much time parents spend on their devices, their phones and similar might impact upon their children. And I got a message which got me, as they say, right in the fields. I can't find it now, almost inevitably, but it simply said, we played mystery hour last night, James and my twelve year old made me turn my phone off before we started. Isn't that absolutely lovely? They'd be right on message as well. And now we segue from a conversation about parents spending too much time on their phones and children feeling they have to compete with the phone for the parents attention to actual mystery out. And if you're wondering how you can play it at home, well, there's a board game. You should know that by now. I do mention it fairly frequently, and I will no doubt be mentioning it again in the course of the next hour. But first things first. Here it was. It was from Leo, played mystery hour last night. Daughter, 13, hid my phone beforehand. I even got the details wrong. Fake news. Fake news. The phone was not turned off. It was hidden by a very clever sounding 13 year old. Okay, so here we are. Your weekly opportunity to do all that malarkey. What happens is you ring in with a question, someone else rings in with an answer. It's that simple. It is genuinely that straightforward. It's a lot more fun than those very bare bones allow. And relatively recently, we have added the magnificent bonus of a prize. You can win your own mystery out board game by being my favourite contributor of the day. That's it. That management's decision is final and I am the management. So like it or lump it, the contribution I like the most, whether question or answer or something in between, will receive a brand spanking new mystery hour board game. You can find out more about the game at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. Indeed, you can buy your own copy. You still get change out of 20 quid. Incredibly good value. And the terms and conditions for the competition that I undertake now every Thursday at twelve are available at LBC dot co dot UK dot. We'll just crack on. I think you're not allowed to look anything up. I think it got a bit sticky last week. Did you? I think there were a couple of lads last week not mentioning any names who had actually looked it up. I've never understood the point of doing that. I have to be honest with you. I mean, unless it is just the thrill of getting on the radio, which I do understand and appreciate, but honestly, it kind of spoils it for everybody, especially if everybody else listening has googled it because they were curious and aren't going to ring in because they know the rules and is listening to you essentially, read out what it says. So don't look stuff up. We can usually tell. And I think I've mellowed a bit in recent years. I don't know that I am going to call you out for it because it's such an uncomfortable listen, but I might, so be warned. That's the only rule, really. Repetition is our department. Frankly, we gave up on that years ago. For a while, you weren't allowed to ask a question that had already been asked. But it's been going on for so long now, it's been going on for even longer than the conservative party leadership contest, you know, mystery hour, and I'm flipping out. That's hard to believe, isn't it? So I gave up on repetition. Unless it's really, really, really obvious. Really obvious, like we asked it ten minutes ago. Zero. 345-606-0973 Ben's in Whitford. Ben, question or answer? I have a question, please, James. Carry on, Ben. Okay, so my question is, why do you never forget how to ride a bike? And there's a bit of context here. My two little un's, they're five and nine and they've both got autism and they're having a bit of a nightmare at the moment, trying to learn about stabilizers. I took them to get some private lessons done and they were brilliant. I was so proud. They sort of inspired me to get a bike again. And I used to be a postman about 20 years ago on my first jobs at Royal Mail, and I was on the bike all the time. Now, I left 15 years ago and I've not touched the bicycle since, not once. So I was inspired by my kids. I thought, you know what cost a living? Save some petrol. I'm going to buy a bike and I'm going to ride to work. Love it. So I did that, looked at it for about two weeks and thought, don't fancy it. But this week I decided to get back on it and it was. If I had never been off the bike, my warm out days were like, yesterday. Why is that? I'm going to have a go, but there's no way I'm going to get a round of applause for this. I think it's confidence. I think that. And you'll have seen this with your little ones. It's fear of falling off that is the defining factor when you're learning to ride a bicycle. And that relationship between momentum and stability is like a switch that gets flicked, isn't it? It's when you suddenly realize that your dad's let go of the back of the saddle and you're cycling along. I think that's like a Rubicon. That relationship between momentum and stability is like a rubicon. And once you've crossed it and you've understood the relationship between momentum and stability, you'll never go back again. But I can barely remember what I did last week. Doesn't matter. It's not, it's not. It's a sense memory. It's not an intellectual memory. It's the knowledge that if. That you will, however wobbly it feels. It's the knowledge that when you reach a certain momentum, stability is established and you can never go back from that. It's like a river. You've crossed the river. That's it. That's. That's it. Going forward. No, I can. I can see the logic in that. I'm not convinced. No. Well, I'm not expecting you to be. Even though, as always happens with me, the more I talk about it, the more convinced I get by my own burblings and theories. So I will definitely leave it on the board. But I suspect it is something to do. It's going to be more psychological than physical. I guess that's the point that I'm making. I like it. And keep pedaling, Ben. Don't stop peddling. Keep it up. Got so many benefits. Nine minutes after twelve is a time. I like that question. Jack is in. How do I pronounce that? Is anyone going to tell me, is it just Shenzhen? Shenzhen. Shenzhen in China. Jack, welcome. Question or answer? Hey, James, how's it going? Pretty good, Jack. Welcome forward. We've not often we get calls from China during mystery hour, but you're especially welcome. How are things over there? Yeah, all right. I'm on holiday at the moment. Fantastic. They're waiting to go back to work. Fantastic. What's your question? So, I was wondering about chickens. Yeah. On their head they've got that red flappy bit of skin. Yeah. Looks like a glove. Yeah. I was wondering what the purpose of that was, because other birds don't have. It's fleshy, isn't it? It's not feather, it's. It's. It's like a fleshy outgrowth. Yeah. It looks like sort of red skin, I suppose. Well, it's gonna be, um. It's gonna be sexy, Jack. Yeah. Yeah, it's gonna be. It's gonna make them more attractive to other chickens. So is it just males or just females? It's like. Well, do you mean you put me on the spot? Now? I'm not entirely sure that the chickens are all female. So it's. Yeah, gonna be the female. The cockerels don't do cockerels have that. Can't remember. So it's gonna do. It's gonna be. I think it's gonna be sexy. It usually is. There's a very good book by a woman called Helena Cronin, I don't know if it's still published, called the ant and the peacock, which is all about the displays, the sexual displays that are made in the animal kingdom. But I don't think I can. I don't think. Well, there's no other explanation for it, is there? Unless it helps regulate hydration or something like that, or temperature. But I can't give myself a round of applause for this. I'll hold on for another answer. Yeah, I think. I think you should. Especially given us. You've paid us a compliment of ringing in from holiday. What do we call it? The comb. Is it a comb? Call it a comb. What's it for? The red bit. The red protuberance on a chicken's head. What purpose does it serve? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Paul's in horse room. Paul, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Right. When I'm walking my dogs out around fields, I tend to see cattle and horses that are troubled by flies, particularly around their eyes. Why don't those flies affect my dogs? Why are my dogs not pestered with the same flies? Well, what are your dogs doing on these adventures? Walking. Generally. They're on the lead or off the lead. And what are the cows and the horses doing generally? Grazing. Standing in a field and looking at the dogs. So the answer to your question is that the dogs are moving. If your dog. If you were to glue your dog to the floor, don't do this at home, your dog would soon have a fly problem. And if you were to head down to Cheltenham Racecourse and watch a horse race, you'd see that the horses in the race don't have a fly problem. But the cows and horses also move and they swish their tails to get rid of the flies. They do so why do the flies keep coming back to the horses and the cows and not my dogs? Because the horses and the cows are standing still a lot. Your dog is never really to be found standing still in the garden. Is that all it is? Yeah. It's nothing to do with the chemicals in their eyes or something that they're attracted to or whether they're herbivores? Maybe with the bottoms. Maybe with the bottoms. The flies? No. No, because you see flies on your dog poo, don't you? If you do. If you do. If you don't, definitely, yeah. So, no, it won't be. But they don't like the eyes. But they would do if the dog was standing still. It's just like getting a little bit of salty water or something like that, I imagine. I don't know, the detail I'm tempted to give. I've gone three for three now with answers that I think are correct. I haven't had a single round of applause yet, but you sound pretty skeptical, too. I'm not convinced, James. Why else could it be? You've got a blooming great cow standing in a field, doing nothing but swishing its tail away, and you've got a dog running around the place. One of them has got flies buzzing around it and one hasn't? What else could it be? You know, I didn't think this subject would get you so animated. Well, then, it's time you start. I mean, for heaven's sake. What are you expecting, ma'am? It's the sketch. Three in a row now. I mean, it's like I'm doing this for your amusement rather than mine. This is ridiculous. I got a board game, so I don't need one. Oh, blimey. All right, then. Well, you're not getting a round of applause. You wouldn't expect a round of applause. It's only a question. How are you getting on with the board game? I haven't played it yet, but we're on holiday next week, so I'm taking it with me. Fantastic. I love that, taking me on holiday. It's going to Mauritius. It'll be well travelled. That'd be nice. I've never. That's outrageous. I've never been to Mauritius, but my board game will have been by this time. Next. We have a lovely holiday, Paul. And if you see any elephants standing still in Mauritius, they'll probably have some flies buzzing around them. But if they're galloping down a sort of road, they won't. But apparently I'm not allowed a round of applause. For that one, either Sam's in Amersham. Sam, question or answer? Hi, David. Hello, Samisham. I've got a question for you. Well, actually, my husband's got a question. I have to credit him. Um, all the goings on at Downing street led us to thinking. We've seen quite a lot of PM's coming and going, but there's one constant. Larry the cat. And we thought maybe Theo might be able to answer this. Excuse me. What do you think I am? Chop liver? Sorry, carry on. Well, maybe you can answer it. Yeah, probably. What is the question? Who does Larry the cat belong to? The cabinet office. He's a Cabinet office cat. So who's looking after him? He's the main. No, you're only allowed one question. It's the cabinet Office cat. They have quiet. They have mices. Do they have a roadside to the guest room? No, you're only allowed one question you asked. To be honest, I've told you, it's a cabinet office cat. Larry the cat is the Cabinet Office cat says, the Cabinet office changes hands. Qualifications. I just know this. I'm one of Britain's foremost political commentators. Of course. Sure. Round of applause for me. Thank you very much. That is the answer. That is a. It's a mouser as well. I know that, too. I don't remember where I picked this up, but it's the Cabinet Office cat, which is why it stays when the prime minister's change. So it is the Cabinet Office cat, not the Prime Minister's cat. It's 12:15 it is 1218. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is underway. It feels like you were so strict with the rules about additional information and questions with the last caller because you had reached the limit of your knowledge about Larry the cat says hunt the economist. Yeah. And I mean, come on. It's a very odd mystery out this week. It's almost like you've forgotten that. It was designed entirely for my own amusement. Questions that still need answers. How come you never forget how to ride a bike? I've answered that. But you won't accept it. What's the red comb on a chicken's head for? I've answered that but you won't accept it. And the flies. Why do flies land on cows? Bother cows and horses a lot, but not bother dog. Not bother dogs. I've answered that but you won't accept it. And then the Larry the Larry the cat question, which I dealt with quite perfectly. Jonathan's in Litchfield. Jonathan, question or answer. Answer, please, James. Carry on, Jonathan. Okay, you're. I don't mean to correct you, but you're actually wrong about the chicken combs. This is going out of hand, man. Go on now. Okay, Keith, pack it in, mate, seriously. No, hang on, hang on. Stay there, Jonathan, mate. Seriously, just watch it. Right, carry on, Jonathan. Chicken combs are actually there to regulate body temperature. Chickens and hens can't sweat. So male chickens and hens both have combs. And if you ever see a chicken, normally in the summertime, the combs are quite big and that's. They can let off more body temperature. And in the winter, combs shrink a little bit so they can retain body heat. And funny enough, I actually phoned up about six months ago to answer a question about birds tucking feet up, and it was exactly the same principle. I said, my chickens took the feet up and that's also to retain body temperature. Well, you know, nothing to do with sex. Chicken sex. Nothing to do with sex. Chickens. Male chickens have poems and so the hens, which obviously all hens are female. Well, I never. I did actually say something about that, but I did it quite. In quite a throwaway manner. Jonathan, I don't know if you noticed, you did also say all chickens are female. Well, mate, can we just focus on the bits I got right. I did say something about regulating hydration or temperature. I'm 99%. I think I did, didn't I, Keith? Yeah. All right, qualifications? I keep chickens in hand. How many do you keep? I've got three at the moment. Only three at the moment? Yeah. And. But when I first got two of them, they're ex battery hens, so they were rescued from the slaughter, I remember, yeah. So the two actually, when I first took them in, their combs were so big, they actually covered their eyes, they actually couldn't see. When I had them checked out by the british health fair, british welfare hen trust. Yeah. They said, because there's so many chickens in one cage, they get too hot. Because they get too hot, the combs get bigger so they can off more heat, and now they've got probably about a ten foot coop between three of them and the combs have dramatically shrunk down. That's absolutely fascinating, isn't it? Yeah. And that's. That's like. That's science. It's one of them questions you wouldn't know unless you have hens. That's not silly at all. And you've. I mean, you've actually seen it happen. I had no idea they would grow and shrink according to how. How the chickens were living out. How they were living. That's gorgeous. Yeah, yeah, I know. And another little fun fact, it's been scientifically proven, but when you have a pecking order with hens as well, because all hens have pecking orders and you do tend to find the one with the top pecking order, the top bird, she's got quite a big comb. And as they get down, they have smaller combs. And we think it's probably because when chickens establish a pecking order, they peck each of his combs and we think that they might actually shrink the combs down so they've got less chance of being pecked as well. Massive round of applause for Jonathan, please. Thank you very much. Thank you. What are your chickens called? I've got one called Mabel. The other two are ex battery hens. So when I first got one of them, she had no feathers on her and she liked Kevin from home alone, so I called her Kevin. Bear on. She's female. And then the other one had feathers everywhere but her head. So we called a chrome dome. I love it. I miss my chickens a lot. I really do. Jonathan. Thank you. Liz is in Benfleet in Essex. Liz, question or answer? I've got an answer. Come on. Then. It is about the riding the bike. So there are three types of memory. Procedural memories, semantic memories and episodic memories. Procedural memories are a kind of memory that you never, ever forget and they're to do with things that, like procedures that you follow. So riding a bike, driving a car, things like that, you never forget them. You might lose a bit of skill over a period of time, but you pick it right back up again because your neurons have already. So psychologically, once you've assembled the skill set, you can never. It can never be disassembled again. No, not unless you have full memory loss. Well, you say that. Yeah. There was a man called Clive Waring and he's really, really famous. He used to be a musician. He used to be a musician. I suppose it depends on what crowds you run with. Yes, true. Yeah. So he used to be a musician back in, like, the forties, fifties. He suffered from a virus, part of the herpes family. Okay. And it traveled into his brain and it did a lot of damage and he had complete retrograde amnesia and anterograde amnesia, which meant he couldn't remember anything from his old life and he couldn't form new memories either. Good grief. And he lived in about 22nd period of time. Whoa. Yeah. But he could still learn music. Yeah. He could still play piano. He would say, no. Never seen a piano before in my life. Never learned to. He's still alive. He's still alive. Is he still alive? Yeah. Wow. That's. I know the story and the myth and the legend. No, I mean, sang as a. I just looked it up just because I wanted to tease you about him not being famous at all. But he is actually really famous, so I look like an idiot. You didn't have to agree quite so quickly with that self, that faux self deprecation. And that's a beautiful example because goodness knows, he used to think he'd just woken up from a coma. He does think he just woke up from a coma, yeah. He says things like, I'm awake for the very first time. It like death, no night, no day. I've never experienced anything before. Like when he has interviews and stuff, he goes, you know, you're the first people I've ever seen in my life. And so riding a bike is. I mean, is that. It wouldn't matter. Once it's there, it's there. You can never get it out again. It's a bit. I think I'd give myself a bit of credit for the crossing the Rubicon thing and then never being able to get back over it to the other side. But your explanation knocks mine into a. Into a cocked hat. What are your qualifications, Liz? So I've got a master's degree in psychology and I'm about to start teaching secondary school. Psychology and memory is our first unit. Oh, look at that. I've just been planning all these lessons and then I heard that and I was just like, ah, what an absolute touch. Have a round of applause on me. Thank you. Thank you. A beautiful answer and a brilliant question. As it turns out, Farah is in Hays. Farah. Question or answer? Hello, James. That's a question. Carry on. I'm really starstruck. But anyway, don't be silly. I met you a long time ago, Norfolk, in a pub. Fantastic. Yeah. I gave you a little scoop about the queen. You gave me what scoop? About the queen and her health. Oh, I remember that, yeah. How you doing? What are you doing in Hayes? Well, I live. Norfolk is where my in laws live. Oh, I see. Okay, fantastic. What pub was it? What pub was it? What pub was it? Can you remember? I don't know, but I went, what happened is, when I saw you, I went up to the bar. Yeah. I said, barman. I said, oh, my God. You know who that is over there? Don't spoil the story by telling me. The barman's reaction for her. Yeah. He went in and what is he then? And I went, mate, it's London. It's massive. It's James O'Brien, mate. And then I kept looking at you. You went, oh, no, you've clocked me. I did not. It's delightful to be spotted by a devoted admirer such as you. It's outrageous to suggest. It's probably. Was it the crown? Might be in the crown. I don't know. Would it be the crown? Anyway, where were we? In the corner of your wife and the girls. Lovely. Anyway, question or answer? I must thank you for the amazing work coverage you gave. The compassion you showed was amazing. Thank you. Well done. Thank you. All right, question, James. It's dishwasher. Yeah, my dishwasher. So smart. It has an auto setting. Yeah. So what I do is, if I load in three dishes, three plates, I'll switch it on. It's on auto. Tell them really quickly, if I've loaded it and it's got loads of pots and pans and it's on auto, it's ages. And my question is, when does the dishwasher. How does a dishwasher know when the dishes are cleaned? My goodness. There a camera in there? But I've looked inside it, there's no cameras. I've never. I've never noticed that with auto, because I only ever put it on when it's full. So if you put it on auto when it's not full, it takes a lot less time than it does when it's full. Yes. Well, I tell you what, today, every day is a school day, isn't it? That's. So how does it know? I mean, because, I mean, it's not a timer, is it? Weight? Weight? Could it be weight? Couldn't be what? Could it have scales in it? Could it be weight? I very much doubt it. I don't know. That is a classy question. That really is. I think it does. And I was. I wasn't optimistic when I saw the sort of note on the board. I thought. Because I thought the answer was going to be, it's got a timer in it, mate. You absolute doofus. But no, no. Public AJ's for a top man. Thank you. I'll see you in Norfolk. I'll see you in Norfolk. Look after yourself. God, it's going to be a tough choice for the board game this week, isn't it? I've not. I'm not even joking. Declan's in Vienna. Good Lord. It's like it's like the United nations or something today. Declan, question or answer? It's a question, James. Hello? Hello. What is it? Yeah, I was just talking to your assistant, and my question is, you know, like in the movie, the old western movies with the cowboys and, like the Alamo, or, uh, your assistant, your. Who reminded me? Like, in the. In the Middle east, when they celebrate, they shoot, like, AK 47s in the air in celebration and that, you know? Yeah. Where do the bullets go? Well, they just come back down to earth. Is it not kind of unsafe? I mean, it's terminal velocity, Declan, isn't it? So you're worried about someone getting hit on the head by a falling bullet? Yeah. Yeah, but they're not. It's a falling bullet. It's not a speeding bullet. It's a falling. It's reached. It's reached its peak and then started falling. And when it starts falling, it will reach terminal velocity. It can't go any faster. It's why this question is actually the same as the question about whether it was true that a penny thrown off the top of the Empire State Building could kill someone. That's exactly what I was going to ask you. There. There, you see? I read your mind. I read your mind live on the radio. It's not allowed that, so. No, it's. Because it won't. The bullet will never be going fast enough to hurt you badly if it's falling out of its. From. From its peak. Okay, you don't sound enlightened, Declan. More baffled. Well, let me think about. Let me. All right, let me try and explain it to you in a more. In a less baffling way. So, please. All right, so I've got a gun, right? And I shoot the bullet in the air. Okay. This might help. Right. Right. Now, the bullet is going up, up, up, right, right. And then it stops before it starts coming back down again. The bullet actually stops. So you need to completely reset the bullet. It now no longer matters in any way, shape, or form that just 30 seconds ago, propelled by gunpowder, the bullet was travelling at a speed capable of killing a man. Because the bullet has now stopped, so we have to start again from zero. And because you're starting again from zero, all you're actually doing is dropping a bullet. So no matter how high that bullet has gone into the sky, all you are doing is dropping it from that height. And because of terminal velocity, that is the point at which a body can go no faster. There's no such thing as sort of eternal infinite acceleration. That bullet will never. Because it started from zero. So it will. And what gravity, like, wouldn't give you anything. But it's the same. I mean, it might hurt you. I mean, in fact, it could kill you if you got desperately unlucky. But it's never going to shoot you. That's what I mean. Like. Yeah, so you could get hit or maybe killed. Yeah, but it wouldn't be, like the same as being shot. It would be having a small piece of metal dropped on you from a great height. Not shot. You see? Yeah. Are we good? Okay. Gotcha. Are you sure? Gotcha. Fantastic. Round of applause for me. Top man, Declan. Thank you, mate. Amelia Cox is here now with the headlines mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1234. Everyone's a critic. Gary writes, this bullet slows down due to wind resistance and gravity as it rises, until it stops at the apex of its trajectory and then speeds up again as it falls, but does not have sufficient time to reach a velocity that would be fatal. I feel like that would have been clearer. Well, I got the round of applause. Fiona's in Nuneaton. Fiona, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got a question for you. Splendid. Okay, so I would like to know, why is a banana more sinful to eat when it's mashed up than it is to eat it whole? More whatable to what? So, for instance, on the slimming world diet plan. Okay, other diet plans are available. Carry on. Of course, yes. So, a banana, for instance, it does happen with other fruit and veg as well. But a banana, right, is more sinful to eat if you mash it up than if you eat it. Do you mean calorific content? Well, I think it might be calorific content, yes, but sinful is that. Sinful is a slimming world thing. Is it? Is that the phrase sins is a slimming world thing? Yes, but in general, it does make it more. But that's fattening, shall we say, to eat if it's mushrooms? No, but you can't say fattening, because we don't know that that's what it means, do we? All right. Well, no, we don't, but in the literature I have. Yeah, but this is about their business model. I know. I don't know the answer to that. Well, admittedly, it's not all about what I know, but this isn't quite the question that I thought it was, because it's about there. I mean, here's the short answer. Ready? Actually, I think I've bloody solved it. I've got it, Fiona. I've got it. I've got it. Oh, okay. Okay. Tell me. You will use up calories chewing, but the energy you use to mash it up, there's nothing in the thing that says you mashed it yourself. Yeah, I'm not convinced that that's the right thing. How can you not be convinced? How many chews does it take to eat a banana that's not been mashed up versus how many chews does it take to eat a banana that you drink? A banana, really, that has been mashed up? You barely exercise your jawbone at all. Well, no, because it doesn't actually go to liquid, does it? It's like pulpy stuff. It depends. You're probably going to put it in a smoothie, aren't you? So it actually will be part of a drink. I'll go Qed. Correct me. Oh, okay. All right, I won't take it. No, I know you're not. I'm not going to take a round of applause. And also, I mean, probably shouldn't have given such prominence to the company that you mentioned because it just turns into a free advert. But that's not your fault. I have researched it and it does in general say that fruit and vegetables are. You know, they do have more. Yeah, they are more fattening to eat if you mash them up rather than eat them whole. And I just wondered why. Because you're not chewing them. Because you're not exercising. Chewing. Chewing is exercising. You're still using energy to mash. But not as much. Not as much. Not as much. Okay. I mean, also, how much energy does it take to mash a banana? You just sit on it or something. I'll put it on the board. Why does mashed fruit and veggies apparently have less beneficial impact than unmashed fruit and veg? Paul's in Godston. Paul. Question or answer? It's an answer. James. How are you doing, anyway? Yeah, I'm very well, mate. Very well. It's about the dishwasher. Yours. What happens is there's an infrared transmitter and receiver that shines through the water and it can tell by the intensity of the light that the receiver perceives how clear the water is. And that's how it can tell how clean the dishes are. Seriously? Yes. So when the dishes have become clean, the water runs clear and the dishwasher knows it's time to turn off. Yes, that's exactly it. That's a beautiful answer. To what? With all due respect to fire? Actually, no. It was a fascinating question as well, because I didn't even know it was a thing. Because I don't think I've ever turned the dishwasher on auto without it being fool pulled. No. Now you know what it does. What are your qualifications? I've been a domestic appliance engineer for 30 years. Sensational. Have a round of applause. Thank you very much. Great work. Absolutely great work. Thank you. Well, anyway, it's funny, the things you find fascinating. That one's absolutely got me. 1238 is the time. Louise is in Westchester, Pennsylvania. Louise, question or answer? There's a question, James. Carry on. Okay. Oh, by the way, we played the board game last weekend and loved it. Oh, fantastic. It was great. It was great, isn't it? It's a real treat. All the fun for all the family as well. Mysteryhow dot co dot uk. You can find out for yourself. Thank you, Louise. That's lovely to know. All right, so my question is, we recently saw a double rainbow, and I noticed that the colors were reversed on the second rainbow. So my question is, can you have a third or even a fourth rainbow at the same time? And would the order of the colors keep reversing each time? I mean, you're not really allowed two questions. All right, well, do rainbow colors. No, I'm going to let you, don't worry, because you just complemented the board game, so you get a free pass on a little wiggle on the questioning side of it. So, is the second rainbow not just a reflection of the first rainbow? Well, that's what I don't know. And then I'm thinking, if we got multiple rainbows, because we've had a lot of double rainbows recently over here. Because we've had a lot of rain in the spring. Because the weather's a bit crazy. Okay, cool. I like that a lot. I shall endeavor to find out for you. So, can you get triple, quadruple rainbows? And if so, do they reflect like the double ones? Do I like that, Louise? Thank you. 20 to one is the time. Quite a bit of debate about the bullet question, which is good, actually, because obviously, quite important that we get the facts right. Otherwise someone might get shot. Celebratory gunfire, as in can kill. We knew that. But apparently, if you shoot it horizontally, it's a slightly different relationship between the apex and terminal velocity. Does that make sense? I don't know that it does, actually. Sorry, I think I've confused it even further. Asher is in one set. Asher, question or answer? Question. Take your time. Can I first take my debut on LBC to bring you up on something, correct? You actually. No, absolutely not. Well, when it was just recently. No, no, I'm being deadly serious. You categorically can't do that. Okay, Ben. Oh, my God. I'm even more nervous now. Okay, my question is. Go on. My question is, why is it a priest wears the white dog collar, and why is it called a dog collar? I mean, the obvious answer is to denote the fact that it's a priest. No, I know that. Yes, of course. Yes. And that was why I was thinking about it, because I was catching up in the last few episodes of the Walking Dead. Oh, yes. Because we reinstated Disney plus back on recently, because my son also got his BTS, and I just kept. How did he get on? Did he do all right? Did he do all right? Yeah, he did really well. Sadly enough, on his first subject, that he got a four. Four. And the marks, he got a nine. Oh, get in. Yes. Congratulations. But yes. And the in house priest there, Gabriel, for all those walking dead fans on the penultimate episode, I think it was. He purposely took off his dog collar because they were going into a settlement where it was, like, led by a cult religious relic. Okay. And he didn't want to be, you know, known to be as a priest, so he took it off. And it just got me thinking, why did it come from. Yes, and why is it called a dog collar as well? Well, because it looks a bit like a dog collar, I imagine. I don't think there's much of a mystery on this. Well, it does spikes on it or anything like that. No, but it's just round a collar. Not. No, it's just. Well, all right, I'll put it on the board. Why do priests wear a dog? I like that one. Why do priests wear dog collars? It's on the board. Let me just jot it. Jot it down. Dog collars, Asher. And now, what did you want to pick me up on, Asha? Okay, well, one of the questions before about the flies around animals eyes, and he was taking your board game to Mauritius. Yeah. Now, my heritage is mauritian, and we don't have elephants in Mauritius. What about in the zoo? So he's unlikely. Well, I was going to say the only place he's likely to see it, and this is a tip for him, if you're still listening, there's a great place called Cassilla park. Yes. It's like a theme park, and it has some safari animals. I think there may be. I. I'm not sure. I think there may be an elephant there. Exactly. I'm not too sure where they have got elephants there. Exactly. That's all I learned. And it's such a big animal. I mean, you know, where's his face? Oh, crikey. Honestly, everyone's a critic, aren't they? Unbelievable. Also, you. I just throw away line about an elephant in Mauritius and everyone turns into, I don't know, the Spanish. I wasn't expecting the spanish inquisition. Actually, it's a lovely question. I'll try and get you an answer. All right, I'm going to run through. And my apologies for my pachydermal faux pas. I have questions that still need answers. All right. That flies. One, actually, that Asher just reminded us of. Why do flies buzz around cows and horses but not around dogs? I know, I thought so too. But it's on the board. We've done Larry the cat, we've done the dishwasher, we've done the bullets. Why does a mashed up banana or fruit and vegetable of less nutritional value or more. I don't know. I don't understand the question. Well, I understand the question, but why does mashing or blending fruit and veg make it less good for you? Zero. 345-606-0973 do you ever get triple or quadruple rainbows? We've seen a double one in Westchester, Pennsylvania. I've also seen them in England, actually. But do you ever get triple or quadruple ones? Zero. 345-606-0973 why do priests wear dog collars? And why are they called dog collars? I'm gonna let Asher have two questions there because she saved me from continuing elephant based embarrassment. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1247, and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the mystery out continues. I've just run through the questions that need answers. If you can answer any of those, you go straight to the front of the queue. Josie and Greenwich. Joe, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Jo. So the banana question. The smooshing of it. The smooshing. Smooshing. Is that the word we're going to use? We're going with smooshing? I guess so. Okay. Sorry. I have some toddlers in the background. Have you tried a smushed banana? Only chopped up in a blender. Carry on. So there's a bit of misinformation around in regards to that. What people could be referring to is the thermic effect of food, which is more appropriate when you are digesting proteins. So when it's something like a fruit or vegetable, that would be negligible. So it doesn't change the calorie content of it. So the calorie content of whatever you're consuming, the fruit or the vegetable, that's actually the same. It's a little bit of something that we've been arguing in my business for a while. Are you in the diet business? I am. Okay. I mean, surely, if you think of it as digestion, as a process, surely smushing it actually means it's already a bit digested by the time it gets into your gob, never mind your tummy. So it is going to have very little effect. Yeah, but some. It will have very little effect. Very little effect. Yeah. I think. I think people. I think you're right. I mean, it seems to me to be the case that it would. I mean, a tiny bit, maybe, but not enough to really make much difference. Not enough to make any difference. No. Not to call it a sin or not. I don't like that. Right. Qualifications, you've already. I'm a nutritionist. There we go. Well, then, that puts a slightly different complexion on things. And I said, in the diet business, a nutritionist sounds a little different from being in the diet business. A little bit more. A little bit more authoritative. Yes. Yes. Okay, I'm not in the diet business, but, yeah, I am a nutritionist. You've got a round of applause. A full fat round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. 1249 is the time. Stephen is in Carlisle. Stephen, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Recently, while watching the european championships, I was with friends and I was posed a question which I couldn't give an answer to. And it was about swimmers and why that they continually break world records quicker than the equivalent from sort of men's and ladies and athletics. And you hear the term fast tracks regarding running in things. And I wonder whether such a thing as a fast pool and whether there is anything to do with just the environment or whether it could be do with water quality or composition, stuff like that. And I couldn't get an answer. That's quite interesting, actually. So are there any really old swimming world records? Not that I could really. Because you watch the swimming and you see them being broken kind of quite consistently, and is it just that the athletes are getting substantially better through training techniques? That seems the most obvious answer, doesn't it, in the mean. You've also got the kind of people whose physical, whose physiques have been honed differently, I think, of rugby, I always think of my old pal Lawrence Dalio, when questions like this pop up. And just the physical change in him from when he left school to when I bumped into him a couple of years later and he was playing in the scrum for wasps and he was twice the size he'd been the last time I'd seen him. So there's probably actually to go back to the last caller. In areas like nutrition and exercise, you're building up muscles very specific to the job that you're doing. But the question is about the pool. Yeah. Is there such a thing as a fast pool? Because if you think of north and south, we have different water quality, don't we? So does that happen in different countries as well? Because sometimes there's desalination in certain countries where there isn't, like, fresh water supply. Well, you swim, you have less resistance in water that's got less chlorine in it. I don't know, because you're talking about tenths and hundredths of seconds, aren't you? So it could be. It could be. I like that question a lot. At first glance, I will not lie. I thought it was a bit daft. Thank you for that. Well, a fast pull. I mean, come on, a fast pull. But actually, coming to think about it, maybe there is something environmental about the incremental increases in speed as opposed to individual like you. My first answer was that it was just down to the athletes getting substantially better. Yeah. So we just need someone who's really plugged into the world of competitive swimming really, don't we? Yes, please. Good man. Thank you, Stephen. 1252. If you're really plugged into the world of competitive swimming, the number you need is 034-5606 Jez is in Saltburn by the sea. Jez, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. The bullet. One. Yes. When we analyze bullets in maths, or any sort of projectile, we're aware they have such a thing as a initial velocity, but we can't really do maths with that because it immediately becomes subject to curvature because of gravity. So what we do is we have a vertical component and a horizontal component. Now, you're quite right in what you say, where the vertical component comes to zero and then the bullet starts back down under free fall. So we know, for example, in humans, that if somebody jumps out of a plane before they pull their parachute, they'll hit about 140 miles an hour and they won't go any faster because of air resistance. Yes. Now, I don't know what that. Whether that same number applies to a bullet, maybe because of its shape a bit faster. Either way, being hit on the head would not be good. And I believe people have been killed by bullets falling again. Got it. But of course, that would just be a vertical shot. It would be pretty irresponsible to do if you were under it. The minute we shoot something horizontally, what you're saying still applies. Right. But you've also got the horizontal component at an angle. Let's say at an angle. We need to involve. Sorry. We involve trigonometry. And the horizontal component is pretty much maintained apart from when you get into things like air resistance. Okay. So it's very simple mathematics. It's the sine of the angle and the cos of the angle, the sign for the vertical component and the cos for the horizontal component. So something going horizontally will maintain the majority of its speed, I said, apart from given air pressure, until it hits something or falls to the floor. Got it. So there's no apex. There's no apex, is there? Well, if you were to fire it as an absolutely horizontal direction, you could say that your initial shot was the apex and it was immediately falling. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That won't be your apex. So the funny thing is, it's hard to get your head around, but the minute it begins to fall, it's still falling under gravity because there is no other force acting on it. So the minute you shoot horizontally, it's beginning to fall, which is why we have that interesting question about how fast would you have to shoot something? And before it would be in permanent orbit, of course, which is consistently falling all the time. Falling for falling around. The curvature. I love it. Thank you. Qualifications? Math teacher. That'll do nicely. My head started hurting about halfway through that explanation, but in a good way. David's in Watford. David, question or answer? It's an answer, James. It's an answer to the. Why do priests wear collars? Yes. So dog collar is just a nickname because dogs, of course, wear collars. And so when you see a pretty. Not like a shirt collar. So you need something that distinguishes it from a collar collar and it. Because it's more like a dog collar than a collar collar. You call it a dog collar. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, kind of priests nowadays, we're kind of like cheap collars. So they're just little slip in tabs that go in front of, like, special design search bar shirts. But if you're wearing the proper uniform and you're wearing it with a classic or baton or whatever you'd like to call it, it's a tonsil collar and a tonsil collar is a full ring around there. So you remember that friars. So, of course, I. Franciscan friars or dominican friars will have a tonsure haircut. So that ring of hair that's cut around on the top of their head. So it's a tonsi collar and it's scriptural reference, and everything that clergy wears has a religious meaning to it. And so the meaning of the collar is hearkens back to the martyrdoms and the diocletian persecutions in Rome, where christians would be put in collars and as slaves, they would be taken to the coliseum. Of course, they would be martyred for sport in front of everyone. So the priest is always reminded that he is slave to his calling, that harking right back to St. Peter. When Peter said, christ goes, I mean, you're obviously. You're a man of the cloth, are you, David? I am a priest, so I'm reluctant to argue with you. Yeah. But there was. I don't think this works because I don't think that clerics did wear a particularly distinctive garb back in the day. I think it's a relatively recent. It's a relatively recent development. Yes. Your garb is. Garb has evolved over time. So St. Peter didn't walk around in a collar. No. At all. No. So things have always evolved like uniforms of evolved. But I think it was probably only in victorian times that they started wearing dog collars. No. Where would you find a depiction then? Well, I mean, I can't pull that straight out for you right now. No. Should you? Well, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. I don't know. I went to, as you may know, I went to a monastic school and a lot of imagery around the place. And the dog collar didn't turn up until very, very late, long after St. Benedict. Well, you probably don't really see St. Benedict wearing a dog collar, a clerical collar. I mean, each order has their own particular garb that they wear. I don't think the clerical collar is. It was a thing in the. In the olden days. I think it's like 200 years. I think it's relatively recent. Yeah. But you're probably getting things like abbotts and friars mixed up. I don't know that I am. I think we need to find what's the oldest existing picture of a cleric in a dog collar. I don't think. Well, picture. What does it rely on a picture? Or could you go back to scripture and say, like when Peter said to Jesus, I'll follow you, and Jesus said, you will have a girdle placed around you and you'll be led into places that you don't want to go. That's nothing to do with collar. Well, collars. Well, a girdle. I'm going to let. Sheila Fogarty can sit in judgment on this one as a good catholic guy, David, thank you. So, dog collars, shields, did you hear this? I did. I'm not having it. I'm not having it. Well, I think something like the white dog collar in the form of tie and bow and stuff like that goes way back to the very early church, like six, seven. Not because of slaves. No. No. Not because of being dragged around by girdle. Sorry, David. No. It was to be identifiable as priests and leaders, to stand out from the. From the flock. I'm out of time as well. Now, my favorite is probably Liz, who gave us the answer to the riding a bike question, and she deserves a ball game because she's about to start teaching. You got quite meta about the bike, didn't you? The momentum and momentum and stability. The great Douglas Adams, when he was on a roll, used to say that it's like throwing yourself at the floor and missing. Oh, it is, isn't it? Yeah. Or it was when you couldn't ride a bike. Yeah. Isn't that one? That's a good way of describing it. Yeah. Anyway, over to Sheila.