Why do dipomatic cars have special number plates? - 14 May 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC. Text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. It's Thursday. It's just gone twelve noon, so you know what's going on. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you're keen to achieve satisfaction of a kind that cannot be achieved anywhere else on british radio or indeed, international radio. If you have a question in need of an answer, call me now with it. Zero 345-606-0973 with your who, your why, your what, your when, your whither and if you're ever good, maybe even your wherefore. And if you hear someone else ask a question to which you know the answer, ring the same number and tell us what it is. You may win the most glittering prize in all of christendom. That prize, of course, is a bona fide, bona fide mystery. Our round of applause could be winging its way to you. If you can answer correctly a question. Listen. If you've never listened before, I want to crack on this week. If you've never listened before, just bear with me a moment. It's great fun. It's incredibly popular, quite annoyingly popular, actually. There's increasing numbers of people who are utterly unembarrassed about telling me if they bump into them when I'm out, and about how much they love Mistria, making no attempt whatsoever to disguise the fact that they don't listen quite so assiduously or religiously to the other 14 hours a week of radio that we make together. But I can live with that. I mean, crikey, it's not a bad situation to be in. But if you want to find out why, this back into the itunes charts as well last week. If you want to find out why, just stick around. You don't have to get involved. If you're thinking of ringing in with a question, there are only two circumstances in which you won't be politely, gratefully invited to come on air. Those circumstances are these. If it's boring, jog on. And if it is, unfortunately, the management's decision is final on that. If it involves motoring, the best way to describe it is if it's a sort of question, if the answer to your question is unlikely to be of interest to many other people apart from you, then it's probably a bit too dull for mystery. Out. The second one is simply repetition. And that's a very movable feast. It's a very, very movable feast. Repetition. It depends whether we can remember dealing with it recently or not. So six minutes after twelve. Oh. Three, four, five, six, zero. Six, zero, nine, seven, three. Dave is in Orpington with our first question of the day. Dave, what's it going to be? Good to speak to you, James. Likewise, Dave. Right. It's about the stock market. 1 minute it's up hundred points, then it's down 80, then it's up 200. So I'd like to know what every point represents. Is it not the price, the total price of all the shares in the FTSE 100? Well, the FT is sort of around 7000 now. So what, it can't be 7000 pounds. What does each point represent? Yeah, why can't it be 7000 pounds? Well, all the companies one share in each of the hundred companies added up. No, I don't know. Actually, I'm slightly embarrassed. I don't know the answer to the question. But it must say it's got the total going up points and going down points is relevant only to the FTSE 100, isn't it? The 100 biggest. And, oh, you've got the dow as well. That's about 18,000. So what is every. What was making it go up? So when the fuzzy 100 goes up by ten or twelve points or goes down by 20 points, what is each point? Yeah, in money monthly value. Well, it might not be. Yeah. Yeah. You're on. I like. That's a good question. I think it's probably got a simple answer. But seeing as neither of us know it, Dave, we better. Better hold back a little from. From saying that. It's easy to answer. Elaine is in Forest Hill. Hello, Elaine. Hello. Nice to meet you again. Likewise. Something always bothers me is in the, particularly the american military. Why they keep referring to affirmative meaning yes, yes and negative meaning no. Affirmative yes. Because I can quite understand a situation where a sniper wants to take a shot at somebody and the man that he wants to take the shot has just appeared at the window and he's saying, shall I take a shot? Well, by the time he said affirmative, the man's walked away from the window. He wouldn't say it like that. Would he say like this? Affirmative. Affirmative. Yes, but. Yes, that's even quicker. Yes, but think about it. No way. There's no way that you can say affirmative. Yes means lots of things. It doesn't just mean yes. Well, if it means lots of things, that's even more confusing. Exactly. So they can't say yes, because what if you were the sniper? Do you want to be the sniper, or should I be the sniper? You can be the sniper. I can be at the window. I'll be the sniper. No, no, you're not the victim. You're the. You're the person at HQ. I'm not. Oh, sorry. We haven't worked out the plot. I'm getting put. I'm just telling you the plot, Elaine, if you'd give me a blinking chance talking about the man with the rifle and the man back in HQ. You're the lady back in HQ. I am the man with the rifle. Yes. Okay. Ah. What did you just say, then? Okay. No, no, before that. That was a long time ago. No, no, just before that. Then when I do it again. Elaine, you're the man in HQ and I'm the bloke with a rifle. Okay. Okay. I can say okay, but you said yes a minute ago, and I just shot the bloke. No, because you hadn't asked me. You just said no. You just said no. He's living. He's gone. He survived. No, you just said to me. You said no again. You didn't put a specific question to me. Doesn't matter. You might have misheard me. You would only say affirmative in one circumstance and one circumstance only. You would say yes and or no in myriad different circumstances, wouldn't you? Well, but the point of that question now is specifically related to whether I should take the shot at the man who appeared at a window. It is now. But what if you said it again? I just shot him. But you haven't put the question to the person with the rifle. What if something went wrong with the line and you didn't know? Are you there? Can you hear me, Elaine? Yes, I can hear you. Boom. Bang. Yeah, I can see. I put yes in. I could have said affirmative. And again, it would have taken too long to see it affirmative. In direct response to a certain type of question, you see? Am I clear to take this shot? Yes. Pardon? Yes. Not affirmative. I've given you the answer. I can't. I can't. You know, I can lead a horse to water. I'm not very happy with this anti. The horse to water. Why are you so bloodthirsty anyway, Elaine? Why do you want all these people to be shot? Well, it's probably because I saw that stupid Avengers film the other day, and there were pixels saying it morning, noon, and night with avenge with the affirmative. If somebody is. If I said to somebody, shall I go and see the film? And they said no, or to save my money, I should have said negative. Would you recommend the new Avengers film alone? I would not. It's aimed at children from the age of six to six and a half. I think it really is absolute rubbish. The first time I've seen one, actually. But as it was at the IMAX in three D, I thought I'd give it a whirl. Well, it's quite fun for the novelty value. Oh, don't tell me you've been to see it. No, I meant the novelty value of the 3d. Well, that's why I won't. I like that 3d. But not the film. No. I think I've given you a definitive answer, but I sense from your frankly, quite ungrateful tone that you're not going to accept it. No. I'm going to take a rifle out and point it at their LBC window. Affirmative. I will. I will leave it on the board. Why do the military not just say yes and no? Why do they say negative and affirmative, especially in situations where elaine wants someone to be shot? It's eleven minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. What are the points when the FTSE 100 goes up by points, what does each point represent? Good question from Dave. And why don't the military say yes or no instead of affirmative and negative, given that the information would be transported from a to b nanoseconds quicker if they said yes or no, as opposed to affirmative and negative? Steve's in Kensington. Steve, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. It's about commercial air pilot. Yep, affirmative. On the day of the flight, if one of them doesn't turn up due to sickness, how does the airline come up with a solution to get another pilot on that flight? It's not like they have 101 pilot hanging around the airport. Well, no, but they don't need 101 pilots hanging around the airport. No, they just need someone on standby. So you're telling me every airline has a standby pilot? Yeah. Why does that surprise you so much? What do you think happens if I get sick? Now? Yeah, but you're on ground, ain't. Yeah, I mean, they're probably. Obviously, I'm on the ground, but I'm on the radio, so there'll be someone who is kind of primed to come in in the event of me collapsing under the weight of expectations. Well, I don't know. I've never seen loads of pilots hanging around the airport. They're not in uniform, are they? They're on standby. You reckon it's like any other job? I mean, what. What do you do for a living? Me? I'm an engineer. What happens if you call in sick? Somebody else will take my place. Come here, mate. Give me a hug. What would. So what would happen if you were offset? Well, someone else would take my place. James. Yes, Steve? That's what happens with pilots. It's not the same for an airline pilot, though, is it? Why not? I mean, you've got. I mean, our start work. Nine till five, airlines fly from, don't know, from 06:00 a.m., to, let's say, midnight. So you're telling me somebody's sitting on standby? Yes. For every airline? Yes. How many airlines there is? It's not the same person? No, no, it's not the same person. Every engineering companies there are. Look, one of us is missing something here. I'm prepared to accept it might be me, but if I was a betting man, I'd put everything I've ever earned on it being you. I doubt that very much. What do you think about it? You've got 100 airlines at the airport and you think you've got 100 standby pilots at the airport every given day. Considering that airlines fly from 06:00 a.m., till, I don't know, midnight. You don't. You don't need a hundred standby pilots for a hundred flights. You can't use a pilot from another airline to get onto another airline can, you know, but this is the number of flights that. Most of the flights will be a quite a small number of airlines. And they'll all have somebody on standby. Yes. I don't know. I mean, you can't be. Huge fleet. Yes. Hey. Yeah, you got a huge fleet, Steve. Let's try this. You got a huge fleet and you think of how many pilots you'll have to need. Steve, mate, I don't know whether it's just me. I'm going to do this once more. What happens when you're off sick? Yeah. Somebody replaces me or leave the work till I get back. Who? The company I'm working for? Yeah. And the bloke who ends up doing the job you were doing. What was he supposed to be doing today? Somebody else that works with me. It's the same for pilots. I don't know, James. I don't know. Listen, am I taking a round of applause for this or not? You're not going to let me have. No, I doubt it. I love the way listen to his voices. You're sort of scoffing and laughing at me for being a fool. No, it just doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. All right, what's your answer, then? Well, I don't know. That's what I'm bringing up to find out. But mine answer doesn't make sense. I think it's the best available answer, the only alternative. You're telling me. Yeah, they're inflatable. Steve, that's. That's the only other answer I can. You're telling me the size of British Airways Air fleet plus everybody else's airline, right. Somebody rings up and said, I can't come in, I've got whatever. So the airliners will say, oh, hold on a. We've got Mister Smith here on standby. So he goes on to that one. So what happens if someone else does it? That is exactly. Well, there will come a point where if everybody is off sick, they'll have a problem. They're going to fly the airplane with just one co pilot. No, no, no, I can't make this any clearer for you. It's the same as any other job. If. I mean, the flight. If they can't get the pilots on board, the flight will be cancelled or postponed. But ideally they'll have someone on standby, or someone even maybe who lives nearby off shift, who can pile in. See, now you're changing your answers. He's still on standby. He's still on standby. We're not at the airport, though. 1216. I'm Chris Humph, 21 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. The question so far, what every point in the FTSE 100, what precisely does each point represent? Why do the military say affirmative and negative instead of yes and no? And what happens if a. We really got to leave this on the board. What happens if a commercial airline pilot gets sick? Zero. 345-606-0973 if you can answer any of them, or if you've got one of your own. Paul is in New York. Of course you are. Paul. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's actually Luke. Luke is in New York. I thought you're going to say it's actually York. Luke is in New York. How did Paul and Luke get mixed up? This isn't the New Testament. What is your question then, Luke? It's a question. It's a question about the moon. Okay, so I've done a little bit of research, but I can't actually find the answer on the Internet, so I came to mystery hour. Uh, oh. Well, tomorrow is, uh, the moon is in perigee, and that's the portion of the moon's orbit in which it gets closest to the Earth. But I'm wondering which part of the Earth's surface is, gets closest to the moon. I love it. Would it not be the furthest away from the equator in one direction? Well, it would be whichever axis of the Earth the moon orbits around. Yeah, sorry, you've already used words I don't understand, so I don't know what the hell I'm playing at. Trying to answer your question. It's hubris, this. So when you mean specifically tomorrow during the perigee? Yeah, yeah. Is that like the opposite of an apogee? Exactly. Ah, bingo. Okay, so I can work out what it means. Where during tomorrow's lunar perigee will be closest. Where on Earth will be closest to the surface of the moon? Yes. How do we do this, do you think, Paul? How do we go in the space of, what, 200 seconds from a bloke who can't quite get his head around the notion that if a pilot calls in sick, he gets replaced by another pilot, in the same way that every other job on the planet gets replaced by somebody else else in the event of somebody going sick. So we can move from that. And in the space of moments on mystery hour, we not only cross the Atlantic Ocean to take a call from New York, but we also cross, I would argue, several oceans when it comes to the basic prerequisite intelligence of the question. Well, I'm afraid I can only listen to the podcast in New York, so I didn't even hear that question. So you got up especially for this, did you? I did. You set your alarm? Yeah. What time, what time is it now in New York? It is 07:23 a.m., okay, so you just got up a bit early. You didn't sort of get up in the, in the small hours of the crowd? Well, we've got to do our best to get you an answer now, Luke. Thank you. So can we change his name on the screen? Because I just called him Paul again, for goodness sake. Luke, thank you very much indeed. It's an easy mistake to make, Luke and Paul, I mean, they sound identical. They look just the same. They've got at least one letter in common, and he's in slough. Andy, question or answer? Answer. Do you know what a perigee is? I've got no idea, not even the slightest. Carry on. What's your answer? It's an affirmative and negative question. Carry on. All it is that they're not. You can't mix them up in a sentence. The very definitive words, they sound very dissimilar to everything else. They don't rhyme, they don't sound like anything else. So you can't make a mistake over the radio where a lot of conversation can be lost. That's kind of what I thought and said, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah, it's pretty. You pretty much summed it up. It can't be mistaken. Whereas the British use Roger, they say Roger that. And that comes from the phonetic Alphabet, because Roger used to be R in the phonetic Alphabet, which are first letter of Roger, first letter of received was R. That's why we Roger. They do both end with Eve. It would mean, is there a sort? But if you. Yeah, if you listen to the start of the word, though, they do end in if, which then gives you. If you hear, if you know you've got an answer. And neg and af don't sound anything alike. Very true. And you would never use any of those syllables in end. This is what I was trying to explain to Elaine in Forest Hill, but I think she was being a little bit obtuse, frankly, because you would. I kept getting her to say yes and no in other contexts and she didn't realize that that's the reason why you don't say yes and no in this context. Exactly. You can use yes and no to accept that you've heard a message, but it's, it's not sort of like a recognition. What are your qualifications, Andy, six years in the military. I want you to answer this as if you were still in the military. Would you like a mystery out? Round of applause. Affirmative. Good man. Thank you. 26 after twelve. John's in Lewisham. Question or answer? John. Hi, James. Answer. Good man. Regarding the FTSE, what does each point in the FTSE 100 represent when we talk about them going up and down? Okay. It really starts back how they formed the original value. So they took the top hundred companies and give it a value of 1000. And then there's an equation that works out the size of the company. So the bigger the company and the more it moves, the more the FTSE will move. So when they actually talk about the value of what the FTSE is moving, it's really just against the previous day's close. So what is each point, though? The point actually really comes in when you look at the derivative, which is a futures contract, and in which case, then it would be ten pounds per one movement. So every. No, that doesn't make sense to me and I'm sure it's my fault, but when we say the FTSE has gone up by four points, what has it gone up by? It's really. It's just, you look at the close of the picture the day before and the whole value of the companies moving, it's basically done on an equation and then it moves. It's moved four points against the previous day's close. So, for instance, if it's. The base value originally was a thousand. Yeah. If it moves. If it moves five, it's gone to 1000. No, I understand that, but what it. What is. I mean, on the vet, when it was all invented, what was one point? What was, as in, it depends on what the value of the companies are. Because every day they take the value of the company and he's weighted out. Listen, it may well be that I'm too stupid to understand what you're saying, but I can't give you a round of applause if I don't understand what you're saying, okay? The only thing is, most people, when they're talking about the movement and the value, they're talking about a derivative of the footsie, the FTSE 100 future. And in that point, it's worth ten pounds per movement, per point, per tick, as we would call it. Not getting it. You getting it? Is anyone getting it? Mate, I feel bad. I feel bad about. No, it may well be that it's too complex. I am a bear of very little brain when it comes to some subjects. All subjects, you might say. But I'm not. I can't. Mate, I can't give you the round of applause on this. That's no problems. Oh, bless you. Well, what are your qualifications, just out of interest? I was a teacher in options broke for 19 years. Oh, so you're almost certainly right, then. But I still don't quite understand why. And I'm gonna have to leave it. I hate it when that happens. Wendy's in Windsor. Question or answer, Wendy. I have an answer for you, James. Carry on. Wendy, I'd like to tell you what happens when an airline pilot phones in sick. Yeah, go on, then. Right. If you're part of an airline crew, you are generally rostered a standby duty as part of your monthly. As. What? What was that word there? A standby. Standby. Oh, standby. Steve. Are you listening, Stevie boy? Stand by. Standby, standby. Carry on, Wendy. Standby duty. These vary from airline to airline, but there are three types of standby. You can do standby at home, where the company call you, and you have to be at the airport within a couple of hours. You can have a standby at the airport, which is airport standby, where you stay in the lounges at the airport and wait for them to call you on a mobile phone. And the third one is called a quick response standby, where you would be doing a standby duty at an airport hotel and they would send a car very quickly to the airport hotel, pick you up and whiz you out to the nearest aircraft that was requiring a pilot qualifications. Wendy, I've been airline crew for 35 years and I am going to give you a round of applause. But before I do that, I want you to just tell me, having listened to my answer to Steve, whether or not I could have been any more right? Yes. You could have done what? How you didn't explain to Steve what a standby duty was. Yes, I did. No, you didn't. Oh, you mean in terms of the shift arrangement? I just said there will be some people on standby. Yes, but you've got to have certain standby crew for each specific aircraft type. You can't have the same person on standby for a Boeing 747 as an Airbus 380. Obviously, I knew that as well because they're only allowed to fly one aircraft type. Mystery hour, not mystery week. I didn't have time. When you're on standby, how often do you get called in? How likely is it to most times. Oh, really? Yeah, because someone will be sick. Why am I sounding surprised? I was laughing. A lot of crew would phone in the night before, so then they can actually, you know, adjust the day to day rostering. But, yeah, stambos are really for last minute. Wendy, have a round of applause, please. And because you were so rude about my own answer, I won't even ask to share it. It's 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LB. Couple of phone lines free. So if you've got a question, we can answer any of the questions you've just heard, hit them now. You will get through. Zero. 345-606-0973 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 25 minutes to one. The question I would most like you to answer before 01:00 today is the one that Luke rang in from New York. He got up early especially to get this question on the board and ordinarily listens only to the mystery, our podcast. If you are in that constituency of people that only listen to the podcast, there you go. That's dedication. That is commitment. Tomorrow sees a perigee of the moon, which means the moon will be closest to earth, as close as it can ever be. But where on earth will be closest to the moon? If you can answer that, I'll give you the money myself. Zero 345-606-0973 what does each point represent in the footsie? 100. And the other questions I think we've dealt with, haven't we? So we've got room for some more questions as well. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call if you've got one. Andy's in Shoreditch. Andy, question or answer? Go on, Andy. It was the apology of the moon. Yeah. I spoke to my sister and she's into astrology. Astrology. Astrology or astronomy? Astrology and astronomy. Okay. And we talked about it a little while back. She told me it's also known as a super moon. Is it actually appear about 25% larger to the eye as it would do normally? She told me, within the axis of the earth on the angle Motown, the best place for me to see it would be northern hemisphere, probably the same place as you see the northern lights, really. So Norway, bits of Scotland, North Sea, around the North Sea in England, it would be like northern Scotland. I'm not sure where it would be in America, probably on the same sort of latitude as Scotland and Norway, probably. So probably Canada. For your bloke in America, I love this answer. I think you've nailed it. But is there's not like one small place that would be nearest. No, I'm not sure, but probably depends on the height of the land from like sea level probably. I mean, if you've got a high peak somewhere, I mean, that passes on the northern hemisphere near the moon, probably that would be the closest point, really, if you were at sea level, it'd probably be the same all the way around. Yeah, I think that's pretty definitive, actually. She explained to me if you took a globe and look at the axis of the earth and then actually place the moon when they actually rotate, the closest place would be somewhere around the northern hemisphere. Yeah. Give him a round of applause. I don't know if Luke was hoping for a more specific, but they might not be because of the elliptical nature of the moon's orbit. John's in the city. John, question or answer? I've got a question for you, but first of all, can I ask, do we have a stewards inquiry process on your program or not? Because I think the bloke who answered the footsie one was a bit hard done by. I think he got it right, but he didn't do it very well. No, but that's not stewards inquiry. That's not stewards inquiry territory because I admitted he could well be right. I just don't understand it. It's one of those sort of management decision is final scenarios, I'm afraid. Oh, okay. Well, let's have the question. The question is this. When you see diplomatic cars in London, mainly, of course, they will have number plates on them and they have a particular system for the number plates. And this is a diplomatic and political question, not a motoring one. Yes, but all those number plates are in a different typeface to normal number plates. And I wondered why. How would you know those methods? Because they are, they have. Because they're diplomatic numbers. I mean, you know, the system, like army numbers on army vehicles are different. But how would you definitely know it was a diplomatic plate? Because it's got a. He's got a CD plate on the back, it's got flag often on the front, but might not be able to see all that. All you can see is the plate on AMPR, on automatic number plate recognition technology, or just like the eyes of a passing officer. How does he know for certain it's a democratic plate? Diplomatic plate. You can see it's a diplomatic plate because the system is not the two letters, a number and three things that we. That was true of some very, very old fashioned cars. Pre. Pre registration. No, no, no. Foreign cars could come in. It's a unique configuration for diplomatic plates. But belt and braces is the answer, isn't it? So on the one hand you have a unique configuration, on the other hand you have a unique font, and they conspire to deliver a double whammy of uniqueness. Why? So that it's unmistakably diplomatic, John. No, no. You're seeing this as a motoring question. You're not seeing it as an intellectual challenge to understand why the diplomatic corps have a unique font for their number plates? Well, it is an intellectual challenge. It's just not a particularly difficult one. And the answer is so that everybody knows it's a diplomatic plate. Well, next time you're out, I'll tell you what, why don't you look out for diplomatic play. Why is this game, why is this controversial? I mean, what else could the answer possibly be? We'll wait and see. Your listeners are so intelligent and so sorry. I'm taking a round of applause now, that was for me, John, for getting it right. And there'll be no stewards inquiry. Jack's in Epsom. Jack, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got a question. All right. Now, in the summer, it's usually in the summer, there's always flies that come in. Yeah. And they circle underneath a light fixture hanging from the ceiling and it's not even on. And I just want to know why they do that. Because I show them away, try and get them out the window, straight back underneath the lamp fixture. And it is. I've watched it for years. Every summer, summer comes along and they do the same thing. There's normally two flies and they chase each other just. And circulate underneath the light fixture from the ceiling. Circulate? Yeah, circulate. Let's just go round and round. I just want to know why. Is it, what is it? Is it, is it war? Could it not be warmth? Can they not be. What? Sorry? Warmth. Warmth? Yeah. No, it's not even on. There's no light. It's been on, it has been on relatively rare. More warmth there than there is anywhere else in the room. No, the sun's been up since 06:00 in the morning. Fly towards the sun. Really? No, no, this line is going up every octave. Flies. Sorry, I rephrase that. Why do flies like lamps? Lampshades. Why do they go towards lamps? Yeah, it's the dead center of the room. It's the dead center of the room. And that is the best way that they can make sure there are no predators coming. Oh, that's a, that's a tasty answer. Thank you very much. Is that. No, but I don't know if that quite be. I mean, I'm not over the line yet is what you're saying, Jack. I'm not over. Yeah, but is the light fixture, you're thinking of center in the room? Is it, is it smack in the middle of the room? Well, the room is pretty elongated, so. And light fixtures, how many light fixtures are there? There's two. Oh, so I suppose. And they do it on both. That's shot my folks. Yeah, right, you're on. Okay. Why do they do it? Why do they circulate under Jack's lamps? We shall find out what. Go on. Sorry, mate. No, yeah, no, that's absolutely perfect. Thank you very much. Richard Den Oxbridge. Question or answer, Richard? It's a question, James. Yes. In regards to. I've just had to send off for my passport quite recently, and I've had to go for a rigmarole of obtaining a birth certificate and so forth. What do you mean, obtaining a birth certificate? Well, because I didn't have one, so I had to at all contact. No, I had one initially, but it was lost. I was going to say, imagine not having one at all. How would you know you even existed? So, in regards to the question, when I finally got this document through the birth certificate, it says on the bottom of it, this document cannot be used for identification. Crown copyright. Yeah, but when I sent off for my passport with the application, the only document that they require for identification or as proof of identification was the birth certificate. And I'm just confused. If it clearly states on the bottom of the document that it can't be used for that proposed, then why do the government departments request it? Did you also send your old passport? No. No, I didn't know. So all you sent was a passport application form and a birth certificate and some photos? Yes. You didn't send any photo id. So if you're not allowed to use your. Obviously I needed to get a photograph to. Is this really confusing? I mean, because what they've said at the bottom of it is, don't use this to kind of as id, but the passport office have said, send us your. Send us your birth certificate. And although they're using it as a form of id, they're allowed to disobey the order on the birth certificate because they're exactly that. And that's crown copyrighted. So I'm really confused. Yeah, I am. Now, is this a good question or a rubbish question, Richard, do you think? I don't know. I'm just curious as to. Because I've just had to go. Who's gonna know the answer to that, though? Somebody, probably. I don't know. Someone from. Somebody. One of. One of. One of our listeners. One of our listeners. I like that. Yes, well, let's hope so. Fingers crossed. Why do you have to send your birth certificate to get a new passport if it says at the bottom of the birth certificate that it cannot be used for id, it's 1245. Good Lord, it's 1249. Sorry, we should crack on. Answers, answers, answers. We've only got two or three on the board at the moment. The birth certificate, why can you use it for id with your passports? The flies, why do they circulate under lights, lamps, light bulbs. And the number plates, diplomatic number plates. Why do they have their own fonts? And of course, what does each point represent on the FTSE 100. I know the bloke who answered it got it right. The bloke in Lewisham. But if Jones, the engineer, and I can't understand the answer, then we very reluctantly have to decline to applaud it. Simon is in Gerrard's cross. Simon, what would you like to say? I have an answer on the FTSe question. This is going to be. Hopefully, it's going to be my second round of applause in five years. Keep it simple, Simon. Keep it simple. Okay. Back in the early eighties, the FTSE 100 index was born and it was the top 100 companies on the market. You're well aware of that? Yes, it was. Then the value of it was then divided into 1000 pieces. Okay? Now, the index size of 1000, it was all. It was all weighted according to value and number of shares issued. But that's kind of irrelevant. Okay? It was divided up to a thousand pieces. The next day, trading, it grew by, say, 1%. Yeah. So that means the next. The closing value of the closing index was 1010. Then the value of the market of that day was divided into 1010 pieces. Yeah, it was. Then the next day, it goes by another 1%. Yeah, got it. The index is then 1019. And that happens every single day until today. Qualifications? I was in the financial services industry for 15 years. Have you been miss sold any PPI? Actually, yes, I did. That's another question for another day. Can you share this with the other fellow? Do you mind? Because I know he got it right, but not as right as you. So you can have two thirds of it, he can have a third. I will do, I get it. But I still. I'm not. That's why I do words, not numbers. Steve's in Leatherhead. Steve, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. First time caller to you. You're very welcome. Thank you. The number plates are issued by the Foreign Commonwealth Office, the FCO. Normally they comprise of three numbers, a D or an x, followed by three more numbers. Yes. The first three numbers denote the embassy that they're from. The D denotes if it's from, if they're diplomatic, as in from the actual embassy, or the x if they're from the consulate. Yeah. And the last three numbers denote which person they're allocated to at this specific premises. Got you. So you can know from the plate whose car it is and why do they employ a unique font? I'd imagine because the actual plates belong to the foreign commonwealth, obviously, the FCO. So when the person then leaves the UK, they then have to give the plates physically back to the FCO. So it may all be that the. So the font stops faking them. And the more distinctive the font, the harder it would be to fake them, because I know, Steve, you've given us a great answer, but sadly, not to the question that was asked, because a lot of you seem to. You're not the only one, so it must have been my fault. There's lots of answers, not as detailed or as good as yours, explaining what the plate says that the numbers, the letter, the numbers. But the actual question was not about that, it was about. If you can tell that it's about. It was about the font, because you can tell it's a diplomatic plate by the letter in the middle, can't you? And the arrangement of the numbers. So what's the font for? Why the special font? I would imagine that the SEO probably have their own specific supplier and it would be belt and braces. Was my theory that, you know, you might say you can tell it's diplomatic just by looking at the number arrangement, but actually, to be even more certain that you wouldn't miss a diplomatic plate, stick it in a unique font as well. That's right. But also, as well, the actual diplomatic cars themselves. They don't have to use the actual diplomatic plates issued by the FCO. They can use on the standard plates supplied by DVLA as well. Can they? Yes, but it just won't get waved through and treated specially if they're doing that. That's right. Obviously they've got specific considerations. You know, they can park in parking lots. Yes, exactly. Exactly. Qualifications? Steve? I was in the diplomatic protection group of net police for 20 years. Wow. I can't ask if you ever shot anyone, can I? No, you can't. I'll have to kill you if I told you. This is a round of applause coming up to 1255. Matthew is in Greenwich. Matthew, question or answer? Question. Well, I'm 21, so I did my first general election, I bought him and I went into the booth and I was just wondering why I did it in pencil and not sort of like a cast iron red pen. Something that doesn't get erased. Yeah, it's a good question. There's been some weird, weird speculating and theories about this this week from the usual cultists, but I think I worked it out. Yeah. Yeah. Number one, you can take a pen in with you if you want. You can put your ex in pen if you prefer. Sure. Number two, what do you think happens to all the gumph when there's not an election on. Sorry, what. What do you think happens to all the gump. What do you think happens to all the sort of boxes and the pens or pencils and the. Oh, of course, yeah. They have to get thrown and thrown away. Yeah, well, they don't get thrown away. They probably get kept in a cupboard somewhere. If you kept Biros in a cupboard for five years, what would happen when you got them out again? Oh, they just. They won't work again. But with a pencil, they would work. Yeah. Jones the engineer says that's a ridiculous answer. I think that's a brilliant answer. I just think it's a bit weird that it was. It was a pencil. I mean, just. Sorry, I'm not obviously accusing of any electoral rigging. Don't worry, plenty of people are. You don't have to. Plenty of people think mi five turned up in Thanet with special rubbers to cross out all the X's and replace them in a different box. You. You should see my Twitter mate if you think that sounds a little bit barking, but in terms of then sitting there and thinking, because I thought it might come up in mystery, I haven't looked it up, so I don't know if I'm going to go definitively. But the pencils will. Will. They can use them again and again and again. You could use a pencil for 20 years. You could use it for five elections. You couldn't use a pen like that. Why? Jones the engineer is looking at me as if I've said something outrageous. Why is that not brilliant? You can give yourself a round of applause. Thank you, Matthew. Give me the applause now. Give me the applause, Jones. Matthew told you to give me the applause. Give me the applause. Do you see what I have to put up with, Matthew, seriously. It's outrageous. It's outrageous. He's turned into a thin skinned, aggressive man who thinks this show is a personality cult. I'm telling you, Matthew, thank you. I think that's an answer. But someone else go. Hang on, Tony's here in Enfield. Tony, what have you got? Hello, James. I didn't listen to the last person, obviously. I was waiting. It's very simple. Pencils, you can sharpen pencils, you can't sharpen pens. Okay. What do you mean you didn't listen to the last person? He asked the question that you've just answered. Oh, I didn't realize that. Sorry, James, one of us is going mad and I've got a horrible feeling it's not you. That's the same as what I said. You can. I mean, it lasts forever. A pencil, until, I mean, you. Oh, so he can have the applause, can he? Let's see. Oh, get lost. Seriously, I don't know why I bother. Tony, mind how you go. Julie's in Bickley. Julie is a. There's a coup underway. There's a rebellion underway, and I'm not talking about you, Kip. Question or answer? It's a very quick question. Please, James. Good morning. Good morning, good afternoon. Good afternoon, even. Good evening. Okay, so here we are. The question that was raised by one of my children on the school run this morning whilst preparing another child for a spelling bee. And he wanted to know. My son wants to know, why is it called a spelling? And I'm afraid I couldn't answer his question, so maybe somebody can help. Quite close to the wire on this. I don't even know if it's a spelling. If you would spell it. I don't even have to spell the spelling. B. I think it's B. E. E. B. So. Spelling B. Jamboree. B. Spelling B. B. Come on. Something's gonna drop. If I just keep saying b in my head, somebody's gonna drop. Okay, okay. Well, he'd be really grateful, then. I could actually have an answer by. By pickup. That would be good. All right, well, we've got 30 seconds. If you can answer Julie's question, ring now. I promise that you'll get through. Zero. 345-606-0973 Bart in Shepherd's Bush. Question or answer? Answer. Hello, James. It's an answer about the moths. And why do they circle around life? Moths. It was flies. Flies and moths. Hang on, you can't. There's a big difference between a fly and a moth. Okay, flies. It works on the same principle. Basically, they navigate by natural light sources. The lights off. The lights off. Yeah. Okay. And they still. Okay, well, they've just stolen my thunder, then. More mystery out next week. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The next voice you will hear belongs. I will be back again, doing it again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. I was dead.