Is there an in-between accent?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, three minutes after twelve is the time. It's like a warm bath, isn't it? Some weeks mystery hour, you just sort of sink into it with a sense of calm and serenity. Bit tautologist, that. My apologies. If you're not familiar with this feature, then you're probably going to enjoy it. Not everybody does. I think some people pretend not to because people are strange. But most of us, most of us see it as a welcome relief from the trials and tribulations of the daily diet of news that we consume together. The way it works is this. Someone rings in with a question. You perhaps a kind of funny question, serious question. All it's got to be is a mystery, something that you don't know the answer to, but you must possess a degree of confidence that there must be an answer and someone else will then ring in with the answer. And from that relatively simple premise, magic often springs. If you've got a question that you want an answer to, you know what to do. And if you make the best contribution of the day, you will win a mystery power board game. I have been so obsessed with writing the new book that I have completely neglected my duties in proofreading the new box of questions and answers for the. For the supplementary pack that we're going to add to mystery. I will do that this weekend. If my colleagues at Big sky games are listening, I promise I will do it this weekend. Speaking of Big sky games, if you do submit my favourite contribution of this week, you will win a copy of the Mister Hourgame, a box of the mystery hour board game, which you can find at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. Terms and conditions apply. You can find them at LBC dot co dot UK and of course at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. You can also purchase your own copy of a fun filled family game. It is five minutes after twelve. Get things underway, shall we? Serge is in Bognor. Search. Question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Carry on. Search. Long time listener, first time caller. I've listened to you for years and love what you do. It's been bugging me for ages, but I don't get many Thursdays off, so why do we swing our arms when we walk? And it's something that occurred to me such a long time ago. And then you start watching people and you see that everyone pretty much swings their arms. But I watched recently an interview with the fantastic Evan Peters and when he played Jeffrey Dahmer he commented that Jeffrey Dahmer taught himself to walk without swinging his arms. Why? Possibly just to be different. I think it was a case of. Because he didn't have to, because it's. Again, I think it's one of these just inherent human things that he decided we don't need to do that, so therefore I shan't. Okay. And if we walk with our hands in our pockets, it doesn't slow us down. If we're carrying things, we'd not swing in our. It must be. There must be. Must have. Well, partly. You don't put your hands in your pockets in case you fall over. I follow that completely because my little boy wants ditter and gashed his head right open. Oh, dear. He fell over with his hands in his pockets. Yeah, he did. And you go down like a tree, wouldn't you? You've got. No, you can't break your fall. And then. And then, you know, it's like a kind of. Think of a machine. Yeah. It's momentum. All my. I'm not going to give myself an answer. Someone will tell us, but I'm just thinking out loud. Search. So you've got. I'm miming it now. I look like a right plank. You can't really do it without actually sort of walking around without moving your arms. I don't feel it. Impeachment movement. The other. My other thought was that potentially it's a precursor to if we have to run, you know, flight off, fight, that we would essentially, you bump your arms when you run. And I understand that from the perspective of balance and everything else, but it doesn't really apply when you're walking. Yes. No, you're right. So why. Why do we do it? It might be a combination of some of the things that we've touched upon, but we will find out. Thank you, Sedge. Are you enjoying your day off? Are you making. Are you taking advantage of it? I'm having a wonderful day and I'm seeing my daughter later, Caitlin, who's moving away to university in Brighton this weekend, so it's going to be emotional. Of course it is. And good luck to her. Thank you, Sedge. Take care. Seven after twelve is the time. George is in Beckenham. George, question or answer? Question, please carry on. How much energy does it take for a spider to spin a web? And what would the human equivalent be? Would it be like running around blocks? Oh, okay. Yeah. I thought I was going to. I was going to tick you off for asking two questions, but actually you've got. You've got. No, your producer I mentioned to say the human equivalent version. Yeah, no, that's, that's. That's how we'll measure the energy. So it's a bit like, what do they always say? About what? Do they always use double decker buses for the transport people? Don't be so literal. They let. They're like, say it's the size of 24 double decker buses or something like that. So we need a strength of it. No, it makes it understandable. So, you know, if you're saying it's. The site takes up the same space as 24 double decker, but it's as high or whatever. I keep walking into them everywhere, and they are everywhere, but they can't be that. They can't be that taxing then. It can't be that taxing then. Really. I feel bad because I crushed them when I walk past them. Just like, ruin this guy's day. Yeah. This little spider's life's work. But it's not as. So I don't know that we'll get an answer to this, but I do like the question. So any, any real. Thank you. Any nudge towards a better understanding of how much energy it takes? I feel guilty when I. When I walk off now. We can't start doing metaphysics, mate, or ethics. I mean, I will help you come to a slightly better understanding of how much energy it takes for a spider to spin a web. Ideally in the context of comparisons to human exertions. That's the word I was looking for. Thank you. Michael's in. Mitch and Michael. Question or answer? Here's the question. Please, James, carry on. It's. Why isn't smaller rivers and lakes affected by the tides? Why aren't they tidal? Why? Well, lakes wouldn't be, would they? Well, they're a body of water, like the sea, but they're cooler. Oh, I see what you mean. Blimey, we've got some weird ones today. I like this. Well, I mean, rivers are affected by the tide. It depends on the part of the river, though. So, as I said to your researcher, the Thames, for example, is tidal up to a point. I think that point is about Teddington lock. Yes, it is. It is. Because tide end Taddington, tide end town. There we go. Yeah. Yeah. And so beyond that, it's normal flow out. But why? Yeah, I go fishing in bodies of water and that they remain so. Really? I mean, if we flipped it around, the question would be, why do tides work on some bodies of water? I mean, you're saying, why do tides not work on some bodies. I don't mind. It's probably the same answer, isn't it? Yeah, I know. It's something to do with the moon and the gravitational field and all of that. I think someone once told me that even puddles are tidal, but the movements are so incremental that we can't see them. I don't know if that might be part of the answer, but we need to hear it from someone who knows what they're talking about, don't we? Yeah, yeah, I think so. I think that would only be reasonable. All right, nice one. So which bodies of water are tidal or indeed, why are some bodies of water not tidal? I like that. Brian's in Litchfield. Brian, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. I was wondering why the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire, their home is in Derbyshire. Yeah, Chatsworth. And Lord Carnarvon, his home is in Hampshire. Why are these. Why are these two people, all of them are the same and the Earl of Leicester lives in Norfolk. This is it, yeah. Yes. How come these people don't live where their names are? Duke of Northumberland does actually live in Alnwick, but he's also got Sion House, of course, out Brentford way. Well, I mean, I think if you go back to, like when kings were doffing out earldoms. Brian. Yes. I don't. I think you just got given the, the earldom, like. So there were a certain number of earldoms and he'd give you the earldom. It didn't. You didn't have to live there. He just make you the Earl of Warwick or the Earl of Leicester. I was dishing them out. They would have come with a castle. You and I would think they'd come with a castle, wouldn't they? Who lives in Carnarvon Castle then? Has it got nothing to do with. Oh, you Carmarthen or Carnarvon? I'm getting confused. Oh, no, Carnarvon is where they filmed. Oh, upstairs. Downton. Downton Abbey. Downton Abbey, yes, that one. What? Yeah, so what? I mean, maybe back in the day they were. And they've just like the rest of us, they've just migrated around a bit and found a bigger bit of land to live on. Well, also they owned so much that they lived on their favourite bit. So they might have owned. They might own what we were talking about. The Earl of Warwick might own. I think he's at Warwick Castle. So actually, this isn't helping, is it? Some of them do fit, some of them do stay in the county or the castle. That's got the same name as their title and some of them don't. So that's all we want to know. Why do some of them live miles away from the place that their title is named after? Thank you, James. You're very welcome. Where did your interest in this come from, Brian? Well, I do a lot of shooting during the season. Oh, okay. On the fancy estates? Yeah, on a lot of fancy estates. Fair enough. And have you never asked them? Well, no. Because you don't like to talk to royal family like that, do you? I do, but probably not wise in the greater scheme of things. I shall try and find out for you, Brian. I like that. So, lords and earls, why don't they live where they blooming? Well, should, given their titles and names. 1213 is the time. Rattling through them today. We've got swinging arms, spiders webs, lakes and rivers, Earl's names and Senna's in Bonn in Germany. Senna, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. So I moved to Germany a year ago from the UK, and I didn't realize that I need to carry cash here. And so naturally I always have. Yeah, it's not as contactless like. Yeah, you need to carry cash as the UK, at least in my experience. So naturally, I always have a lot of change lying around in my purse. And my question is when? Well, there's another backstory to this question, but when we are paying with using coins at the self checkout, will the machine realize if we are using coins from a different currency as long, or is that outdated? As long as it's of the same dimension. Well, have you tried? Honestly? I think I did once, because I've got some coins from back when my parents were traveling, like 30 years ago that are probably no longer valid. And I think it went through. I think they do. It kind of got me wondering, can I use another currency? Yes, I think you can. If it's a very similar weight and dimension, then you're laughing. Oh, okay. Well, not that we can benefit too much from it, because it's going to be just coins. Well, it's also. I mean, I imagine it's fraud as well. I mean, if you're doing it consciously, you can't. But I'm pretty sure that. I mean, because there was. Was it the ˆ1 coin when there was a big difference between a euro and a pound? But that wouldn't be right, would it? Because a euro is much thinner than a pound. I tell you what I did the other day. I'm going to go peek Alan Partridge. Now, but I didn't have a quid for the supermarket trolley. Sana and I used a 20 p. Oh, interesting. Thank you. I think. Yeah, okay. It's not very interesting, is it, Senna? Really? Well, to be honest, I've once. A driving trick he gave me. Yeah. He gave me a key ring and he said, you can use this for the trolley. So I think maybe that there's a difference between what we can use for a trolley, maybe, so we want on an electronic payment machine. Can you use coins that are not, you know, like dodgy foreign coins? Yeah. Not that I'll ever do it, I promise. No, I know, I know. Absolutely. You're clearly very honest. That goes without saying. But I like it. I mean, because I presume it's all about weight and dimensions and there must be, by the law of averages, there must be some coincidental coincidings. All coincidings are coincidental where one coin coincides with another, despite being worth considerably more or less. Or both. No, he can't. What? Twelve six. I shouldn't have said the bit about the supermarket trolley, shouldn't I? That made me sound like. It made me sound quite a lot like Alan Partridge. It's too late now. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero three four five, six, zero six, zero nine seven three. Nineteen minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I think we might have to be careful with Senna's question because we could be kind of encouraging criminality, couldn't we? So don't give me any examples of very, very low valued, common, very, very low value foreign coins that have got roughly the same dimension and weight of british coins that you could therefore use. It was always video games when we were kids. Do you remember? Was it pesetas? I don't know why no one else is going to remember. But there was one coin that you could bring back from your holidays, and it wasn't, like, worth a fraction, a tiny fraction of what the english coin was worth. But it'd be the ten p's, wouldn't it, back in the day when we were playing a lot of video games, and it was a foreign coin that was worth about five p or four or five p, and it would do the job of a ten p coin in a british coin op machine. And that's really what Senna's question is about. Does that still happen? Or if not, how do they prevent it from happening? It is 20 after twelve. I really like the question about why lords and earls and the rest of it in, don't live in the places that their titles are from, that are named after. You're sending me a heck of a lot of stuff, actually, on this. I worry slightly that you're so interested in the aristocracy. We don't really approve of their existence on this program. I mean, not their human existence. That's absolutely fine. Carry on breathing. But the existence of titles and deference and forelock tugging. It's a lonely battle, though. Lakes and rivers. Which ones have tides and which ones don't in terms of bodies and water and why. How much energy does it take for a spider to spin a web? But we needed explaining in human terms, so a spider spinning one web is like writing two books or something like that. And why do we swing our arms when we walk? Can answer any of those. You're laughing. Stuart's in Islington. Stuart, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Right, so you've got the scottish accent. You have the english accent. Yes. Okay. You have a border. You do. Is there a. An accent that's in between English and scottish or does once get over the border Jordy. But it's not really scottish, though, is it? It's more. It's more scottish than Cockney. Yeah. But you can tell. But you can tell an english accent? Yes. From a scottish accent? Yes. And it doesn't obviously just change when you get to the border, does it? So Berwick upon tweed or thereabouts would be the accent we're looking for, wouldn't it? So sort of. Or just on the other side of the scottish border, because presumably they would sound the same as each other. Yeah. So you've got the Scott. Yeah. So the scottish side of the border will sound scottish and the english side of the border sounds english. But when you're on. Is there people that live on the border that have got a mixture of accents? Well, it seems unlikely. But why? How does it. Why does it change? There must be an incremental change where it changed. Yes, there must be. There can't be a point where it, like, literally, you cross a line and the accents. No, the accent's changed. That's what I'm saying. No, but it can't. But obviously. But you hear someone and they're quite obviously english and you hear someone who's quite obviously scottish. Is there an accent where the two are combined? It's a very good question. But I thought Geordie was the answer to the question. But it's not. It's not going to be that, is it? Because Newcastle is quite far south of Berwick upon Tweed. So as you sort of get past Alnwick, which we mentioned a moment ago in the context of the Duke of Northumberland, and then you what? I don't know, where does Scotland actually kick in? Is it Reston or even when you look at Wales. Wales in England? Yeah. The welsh accent, the english accent. Well, then you'd be looking at. You'd be looking at a Herefordshire accent, wouldn't you? Just around hay on Wye, that neck of the woods. And then what's on the other side? You're very good with geography. I haven't got. Absolutely. I'm appalling at geography, but I'm touring. I'm touring with the new book, bizarrely so. I actually have been looking at railway routes and stuff like that. And I know, and I love that east coast. If you ever get the chance, you must take that train up the east coast from London to Edinburgh and you go through Berwick upon to. It's absolutely beautiful. The second half of it is absolutely glorious. But, yeah, I've never yet. So is there. Is there like a graph of accents where they gradually transform from English to Scottish? I like that. I don't know that we'll get an answer, but you're just one of those things that aren't sit down. It's one of those nights when you just sit and you've been drinking and you're like, yeah. You feel there should be. Well, we need someone with a very typical strong beric upon tweed accent to ring in, even whether they know the answer or not. Then you and I can listen to it. Carlisle, probably Colin in Hastings said Carlyle might do the job even better, and then you and me can decide whether or not we think that sounds like a mixture of English and Scottish, because they might not even know. Right, you're on. Yeah, I like that. Excellent. Thank you, Stuart. Mind how you go. It is 24 minutes after twelve. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC accents and borders. I'll write that one down. I have to jot something down so I can remember what the question was. Ten franc coin, back in the day, was valued at about a pound and it was the same size as a ten p coin, says Gary. That wouldn't bury rather on the m three. That wouldn't have helped me. And what would you have done? Ten. It can't be that, because we did. I mean, where would you use that? You'd use a pound. No, I don't see how that helps. Anyway, it's digressing. Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Morning. Afternoon, James. Hello, mate. What have you got? Hello. I've got an answer to you about your rivers and seas question. So the question is bound, obviously, around gravity. And gravity, there's three main components to where the gravitational force comes from the earth, the moon and the sun. Now, the primary gravitational force on any body of water comes from the earth, and that could do its immediate proximity. So when it comes to the oceans, because it's already found a level, the problem with gravitational force has already kind of been settled. Right. So therefore, the secondary effect of the moon and the sun is then dominating that additional movement of those oceans. Yeah. Now, when it comes to lakes, because they are much smaller bodies of water, the same kind of effect is going on, but it's almost imperceptible. The difference so far with rivers is because they haven't met their settle state as a result of reaching a point where the water becomes level. So they're still acting under the primary gravitational force of the earth. So what the river is trying to do, because it's like your rain falls generally on higher ground, and starts to work its way down on land to find its own level. So the dominant gravitational force is driven by its desire to get to a point where the water settles. So Teddington is the point at which the force of the water coming downstream meets the water, potentially coming upstream, and that's where the tides stop affecting the river. Yes. So within the tidal Thames, the bed level of the Thames is essentially lower than sea level up to the point where it meets a point on the land where water level is higher than the sea level. So that's why the tide egresses into the. Into the Thames, up to Teddington Loch, and then it's met by the gravitational force of the rainwater that is coming from the land and finding its way to meet that flat surface, or predominantly flat surface at the sea. But the effect of the moon and sun is so minimal on the river because of the dominance of it actually trying to find its way to a lower point. And so, obviously, because you've got a cubic meter of water is worth. This weighs a metric ton, it will, because of that mass, is trying to drive itself downhill. And obviously that's why. No, I got it. So everything would have. Everything has got. Even a puddle would have a tide, but it would just be too tiny for you to see. Yeah, because gravity is actually fairly weak force. Anyway. No, I like it. Qualifications Environment Agency. Rivers and seas. It's kind of things that we do and mystery our legend. Of course. Andy, thank you. No, thank you. That's a lovely one. We can take that off. Round of applause for Andy, please. Well done. Sarah's in Worcester Park. Sarah, question or answer? It's a question. James. Hi. Hello. Yes, it's about fizzy water. Okay. So last year I put some fizzy water in a bottle of mine and I didn't overfill it because I thought the bubbles might make it expand. And I took it out with me and it exploded. The top blew off. Where were you at the time? Well, actually, I was actually at the airport, which was really, really embarrassing, and I made this old lady jump out of her skin. That you did? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But my question is, why doesn't that happen when you buy, shop bought, ready packed fizzy water? Well, where did the fizzy water come from that you poured into the bottle? From my soda stream. Yes. So you had put that. You'd put more gas in it? Yes, I just made my own little bottle of fizzy water. But you didn't take the sodastream bottle to the airport, you poured it into. No, no, just a regular plastic bottle. Yeah. So what you did was put more gas in your fizzy water than you would get in a shop bought drink. Oh, I don't think so. No, you definitely did. I definitely don't think I did. Definitely did. There's no other. But I've eliminated it. I have eliminated all other possibilities. And what I'm left with, however unlikely, must be the truth. I think there must be another explanation that is out there. James, do you think it is that's better than mine? What have you got? Hello. Hello. I'm waiting for your explanation that's better than mine? No, no, no. I don't have explanation. That's why I'm on. I know. And you'll be. I think you'll be quite dismissive of my explanation. It must mean, what else could it possibly. What else could it possibly be? No, because if you have a soda stream, but there's different levels of amounts of gas you can put in it, depending on how many times you press down on the lid. I know. And on the new ones, you don't get the clicky noise that you used to get on the old ones. Do you have one back in the day or have you only got a model? I had one back in the day, but my one now is one with pink cylinders. But you remember when back in the day, you hold it down. And at some point it went. And that meant it was. Yes. You don't have that now. It's like limitless. Yeah. I only usually press twice, though. Yeah. But I reckon on that day. On that day, I reckon you over fizzed it. I'm not going to take a round of applause because you're being frankly quite dismissive of my attempts to answer your question, but I can't for the life of me imagine what else it would be. And it actually exploded. The top flew off. The top flew off and it made a really loud noise and it was quite shocking it would be, wouldn't it? Right, you're on. Why? Why did Sarah's top blow off? Is the question from her bottle with the water in that she had overfished? It's 1231. Amelia Cox has the headline mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Sheila with you shortly, of course. And at 01:00 p.m. She will be joined by the shadow health secretary, Wes streeting, taking your calls. Call from one to get your questions in about the state of the NHS and the coordinator. Strike action now between junior doctors and consultants. And then stay with LBC because at 04:00 p.m. Tom Swarbrick will be joined by shadow education secretary Bridget Phillipson to take your calls. Join Tom as he questions her about who's responsible for the school concrete crisis. All that and more coming up later today on LBC. Just to clarify, to stop you from submitting your applications to idiot's corner by text, government ministers are equally welcome, if not more so, actually, because they've actually got their hands on the lever of power to appear on any of these programs. But Wes treating and Bridget Phillipson appearing today simply because they accepted the invitations. 1235 is the time. Back to mystery. John's in Horsham. John, question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on. Right, okay, so I was watching the late, great rally ota the other day in a fantastic film. I know, it's such a shout. So sad. Basically, it was him and Joe Pesci, and Joe Pesci fires a gun with a silencer. And of course you hear that. Now, I don't know if that's how it sounds in real life, but I want to know how silencer works, because when you think of the dynamics of a gun, the hammer hits the back of the bullet, which is at the back of the gun. So surely the explosion should be heard there. No, no, no, no. Bizarrely. Go on. You are the Obi wan of the radio. Well, I know this one, I think. I don't know whether we've had it before or whether I have inquired into it for similar reasons to you. I watched equalizer three the other day with Denzel Washington in it, and that has a lot of Washington. It's a brilliant film, a lot of silencer action. But it's got links to the question that Sarah asked about fizzy, about the top blowing off her bottle, actually, because what makes the noise when the top blows off a bottle or a champagne cork opens is obviously the gas that is being released. And what a silence reloads a self loading gun, doesn't it? The gas, yes, but that's different gas. That's different gas. This is the gas that is propelling the bullet up the barrel. So when, you know, the gas that is released upon ignition and then it shoots out the end of the barrel and makes a massive noise. But if you think of a silencer, a silencer is thicker than a barrel, so it's got a broader diameter. You see what I mean? So it does. You screw it on the end, and it's wider than the barrel. And that is full of. I think. And this I might get wrong, but I think the word is baffle. I think it's full of baffle. And the barrel of the silencer is perforated, so it's got a lot of holes in it. And the baffle absorbs the gas. So the gas that's making its way up the barrel moves into the second barrel that is the silencer, and the gas dissipates into the. Like the wadding or the baffle that is behind the holes in the silencer so that by the time the bullet gets to the end of the silencer, the amount of gas that is going to pop out the end is significantly reduced. Ergo, you don't get a big bang. You get a little fut. I mean. I mean, I do wonder if sometimes it's just the movies, but do they really even sound like that when they go off in real life? I don't think they're as effective as they're, like, described or portrayed in movies, but they are. They are effective. I tell you what you've answered. I mean, funny enough, as you said that about silence, as I started looking up silencers, and, yes, they do all seem to have perforated holes. Has he got the name? Is it baffle? Is it called baffle? Can you see baffle there. Google has just changed it to waffle. Can we see? Don't worry. Is it. What? It's me that. Yeah, I'm. I do the waffle. You do the baffle mystery hour, in fact. Is the marriage of baffle. Is it baffle? There is a word about baffles. I'd have to open up that one. No, that's it. Baffled. Baffle is the stuff behind the holes. Waffle and baffle and what? There you go. Round of applause for me. Thank you. You've done exactly what you said, which is. Well, I, you know, qualifications. I watch a lot of action movies and I must have looked it up at some point in the past, or it's come up on the program, but it's brilliant that you looked it up like that, because then you can actually confirm that I've gone definitive. Thank you. John. Dom Enda is in Watford. Dom Enda. Question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. So, I work for Epos company, who supply retail epos in the retail shops and we. You know the till system that. In the shops, like, sell checkouts. Yeah. Well, they called epos. We call it epos system. It's like a retail epos, like a post system. Point of sale. Point of sale. So, electronic point of sale. Electronic. Yeah, we got there in the end. There we go. Carry on. Okay, so, sorry, a bit nervous. My heart is pumping. First time I'm talking to you, so. Oh, don't worry. Don't worry. Long term listeners. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, so we work with these machines and we have a couple of companies who supply this, like a self checkout machine in the market, and we integrate those machines. We have our own software and we work with those company to integrate this machine. And what happens is this machine has a very, like a Bank of England authorized to follow. And what happens is these machines are very clever in terms of the design, is very clever, even if it's same weight. But if it's a fake coin, this machine can recognize this. Fake coins. There is a lot of arm coins or normal coins in the market. They are fake, even though it looks exactly the same as the normal pound coin. Yeah, but a fake, but, yeah, go on, carry on. But the material, I don't know exactly detail what technical terms they use or what technical analysis they use or not on the coin, but they use some kind of technology inside to recognize if it's the. It's not. Just so you never, ever, ever, when you did, I don't suppose you empty the machines, but if you did, yeah. You would never find. You never find any fake coins inside. Not a fake coin. Not a fake coin, a real coin from a different country. No, it will not take that either, because those ones are configured with the currency of the country. So let's say we have a machine in the UK, it will be configured with the pound configuration, if it's in the Europe, it will be configured with the euro coins. And there's no crossover whatsoever whatsoever, because it has to go through the standard and then only it will work. It will reject every single coin. Also the notes as well. Even if it is a fake note, it will check the notes. It will throw it out as well. It will not take the note in the machine. So there's cameras in there now. Camera. It's just, I think it. What, what we've been told, because these companies are specialized in this machine. Yes. And they use bank of england standard to recognize the fake coins and fake notes. Fair enough. In the machine. So they throw those machine, these coins out automatically. It will not take those coins in the machine itself. And as I said, if it is country specific anyway, so you can't use euro in the UK. Never going to happen. Never going to. And whereas back in the olden days, when things were being done by simpler engineering, just looking at it, I mean, by looking at it, I have seen it by my hand. What happens is there the fake coins in my hand and the real coin, you, when you look at it, it's exactly the same, literally. You can't even the design, but the machine can, the technology can do what the human can't do. Exactly. And it's designed for that purpose because nobody can. Otherwise it's gonna be everywhere, you know? Are there any secret codes? Unfortunately, I'm not aware of it. But maybe you're about to tell me that. Yes. Just type in this. You would be. This is true. I'm probably in jail briefly, depending on which one they sent you to. Dom Enda. Take care, mate. A round of applause for Dom Enda, please. Look at that. Thank you, Dave. Thank you. You made my day. Thank you. You've made mine as well. Thank you, mate. Stay safe. 1242 is the time. John's in Dulwich. John, question or answer? John. Hello. Hello. Good morning. Afternoon. Oh, hello, indeed. Welcome aboard. Thank you. I have a question. Yes? When I was growing up, it was a constant reflection from my grandparents and my mother that if I didn't get a good night's sleep, I'd get bags or shadows under my eyes. Yeah. Is it true and if so, why? Yes, I think it must be true, because I've seen it on my own face. I bet we want to know what's causing it. I've got the word lymph. Lymph. Something in my head. No, it's no use at all. I went to Dulwich for the first time this week. John. It's delightful. It's a really lovely part of the town, isn't it? Really lovely part I've got. It's a bit silly because for some reason in my head, I got Greenwich mixed up with Dulwich. You can see why. I mean, they sound quite similar. So I had a splendid time with Mick Heron at Dulwich College as an event arranged by the Dulwich bookshop. But I only realized I'd made a mistake when I looked up how do I get a boat to Dulwich? And realized that I'd got it mixed up with Greenwich. But luckily I did that. I did that in good time to realize it would have been if I'd been banking on going by boat. It could have all been a bit embarrassing. What's in. Sorry, I know this isn't what you rang up for. What's in. Why is the Dulwich Picture gallery so famous? Because I went a little early, hoping to pop into the Dulwich Picture gallery. That it is a famous picture gallery, but it shut at five and I got there at five past and I didn't have an event till seven, so I just sort of wandered around like a bit of a nomad. What's in it? Why is it. Why was I aware of it as being a place worth visiting? It was founded by a chap called John Stone. Yeah, got it. Now. That's why. So because I know the Sir John Stone Museum in Lincoln's Inn Field and he's got the place out in Ealing as well, which was like his country house. So that is why I knew. That's a brilliant. I'll give John around. APPLAUSE beautifully done, John. You solved one of my mysteries. I don't think that's ever happened on Mystery Abbey. It's exactly because I know quite a lot about Sir John Stone that I would have been keen to go to the Dulwich Picture gallery. I'll try and get your answer in return about bags under the eyes and if anyone hasn't been to Dulwich. Lovely part of the world. Lovely part of the world. It's coming up to quarter to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Dulwich College, which was attended, of course, by that unremovable skid mark on the underpants of british politics. But also Raymond Chandler went there, I think, possibly at the same time as PG Wodehouse, which for literature fans is a bit of a kind of charming coincidence, isn't it? The time now is 1245, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1248. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we need a lot of answers before 01:00. Why do we swing our arms when we walk? How much energy does it take for a spider to spin a web? In human terms, why do all the earls and lords not live in the place that their titles are named after? I've done that. Why is there a point at which the english accent turns into the scottish accent or the scottish accent turns into the english accent? Why? When Sarah Chance preferred water, I didn't ask what type of bottle it was. So that may be it, but I don't see why it would be anyway. Why, when she put her sodastream water in a different bottle, did the top blow off at the airport? And I've done the silencers one. I did that quite well. And why do our eyes go baggy? Baggy eyes. Jill's in south end. Jill, question or answer? It's a question, please. There's two calls from south End today. Carry on. Yes, it's a question about pigeons. Oh, I know quite a lot about pigeons. Carry on. I know. Then. Well, you might know this. I do. Why do pigeons congregate on some roofs and not on others? So you'll see them, they'll all be on one side of, say, a semi detached property, but not gravitate to the other side. And it's quite often older people's properties, I've noticed. So I thought it could be heat rising or something like that, but it happens in the summer, too. So I just wondered, how have you established the age of the residents of the home upon which the pigeons appear more likely to roost? Well, I may have that wrong. No, I'm just wondering what your. What your. What your research is. Because I think you're right. I live in a bungalow. I live in a bungalow and I live in probably a predominantly older area, but it still doesn't explain why they don't. I know this. No, you're right, it is. They are generally older. And the reason is Jill. Right? Yeah. The pigeons, they actually do like listening to human voices. Really? Yes. So what you find is that older people have their radios turned up quite high, and therefore the pigeons will settle on the home where the radio is on higher. And that is the answer to your question. Right, okay. Or television. Or television. Because the older people are likely to be a bit harder of hearing. Hard of hearing, yeah. So they turn the volume up. And that is why the pigeons are sitting on the houses of the. I'm gonna have to go and listen at their doors now. You will notice they've probably got me on, actually. I hope. But don't. Whatever you do, don't tell them to turn it down. Oh, right. Okay. I don't know if this is true, Jill. I think. I. I don't think I can take a round of applause for this one. I can. I really. It sounds unlikely. Well, you know, it could be, but I'm sure there are younger people in the mix here. They must be. Perhaps they've got their sort of boomboxes. It could be that. Yeah. I should put it. Why do pigeons. How do pigeons choose what houses to set. Sit on? Yes. Thank you. It's been plaguing me a lot. It's plaguing me now, Jill. I tell you what, if it's the radios, I'll give you the money myself. Okay. How long have we got? We've only got seven minutes. Come on, for Jill, please. She's got a good point. Where pigeons only settle on half a house, half a building. Why? What is it? Is it the sun where they're facing one way or another? Why are they doing it? If it's the radios, I'll eat my hat. Mikey's in London, Thorpe in Lincolnshire. Mikey. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Is it the pigeons? It's not, unfortunately. I wish it was. Go on, then. What have you got? It's in regards to the. And the accent change. Yes. So I lived in Berwick upon about 18 months. And the accent there, it's genuinely like a hybrid between, like, a Geordie accent and the accent in Edinburgh, which is, like, the source of the slightly posh, the refined scottish accent, as it were. Yeah, absolutely. So their accent is a full hybrid between the two of those. If you then said to someone from Berwick that their accent was scottish or Geordie, they would not like that very much because they know. They're conscious of it. I think that Carlisle, where you haven't lived, judging from my inbox, Carlisle may be an even better example of what you're describing. Yeah. Yeah. So I'd say it's around about the same sort of thing from there, because it's kind of like the more. The further north you get, the more, well, the stronger the accent will get. So when you are on the line of Berwick, they have their own unique accent. And then. So it does what Brian needs to. No, it wasn't Brian that asked the question, who was it? It was Stuart. Needs to get himself up. He needs to get himself up. They go on that train journey I told him about and. Absolutely. And check out better coupon Tweed and Carlisle. I wonder, we don't know what the welsh equivalent might be. I'm thinking around Goodrich Castle, that neck of the woods, but the welsh portion, where all the castles are, you probably get a similar. But of course, what you remind us of is the gradations of accents you have as you move into Scotland. And by the time you get into the highlands, you've got a much more thick accent than you've got in Edinburgh, for example. Glasgow. Comparing Glasgow to Edinburgh are very different as well. I like this. Thank you. A round of applause for Mikey. Nicely done. Quick clarification. Sir John Soane designed the gallery for the founders of the museum, the gallery in Dulwich. Rosemary's been in touch. Who volunteers at the Dulwich Picture gallery? It was actually the founders, Noel Dessein and Francis Bourgeois, who put together the old master collection for the king of Poland, who was living in Dulwich, having been deposed. And they were left with the collection on their hands, subsequently housed in the Soane building, the first purpose built public art gallery. Rosemary, I know it's a must visit, but you shut at five and I got there at five past. I took a punt that it would be open until six. Keith's in Glasgow. Keith, question or answer? Hello, James. Nice to talk to you. It's a half an answer, I'm afraid. I'll take that. That's better than none. It's better than none. That's better than none. A couple of weeks ago, you interviewed what's his name. Now it's just dropped out of my head. Chris Bryant. Yes, that's Bryan. Yeah. The Labour guy. Yeah. Pushing his minister. Now they've promoted him. Well, I tell you what, you appear on this program and you get promoted a fortnight later. Oh, well, I'll look forward to that. I'll bring you back in a fortnight. Carry on. Anyway, it is book code of conduct and I accidentally went on to the main audiobook site. Yeah. And bought the wrong book called entitled right. And it's a fascinating book, if not a little bit difficult. Go on. And it details, all the nobility from sort of the norman conquest to the present day. And the answer to one of the main answer to your question is all these entitleds have about half a dozen different titles. So it might be the Duke of Norfolk living in Leicester, but he's also going to be half a dozen other titles. Yeah. And that's why they've been collecting them like, you know, top trumps or pokemons and so. So there's no real requirement. So they go, they go by the name of the biggest, which would be the Earl of Watson, but they might also be the Duke of so and so. That's right. Because as they die, some of them get passed on. That's what kind of period you. When the late queen passed away, they were divvying them up like nobody's business, weren't they? Among all her various progeny. I like that. So why is it only half an answer? Because it won't actually account for every single one of them. Them. Because I don't know the full story because I read the book but I can't remember what it said. And did you get around to getting Chris Bryant's book or were you too engrossed by the one you bought by accident? I did listen to the one I bought by accident and I have. I haven't listened to the new one. Good news. Good news for you. Yes. I pre ordered yours for the 2 November. Well, on the order on the audiobook that we can't mention. The website we can't mention. No, you can if you want. But is it the audiobook that you've ordered? Audible.com. Audible.com. Because I am literally going from here today to the studio to record the second 3rd. So I wish there was some way I could slip in a. Keith. Keith. But I can't. I did come to your book signing in Glasgow last year. That was an enjoyable one. Yeah. And you couldn't sign my audiobook. I don't know how we're going to do that, James. No, we must find a way. I suppose I could put a thumbprint on your, on your tablet or something like that. Keith. Thank you. Yeah, big round of applause. It's a good answer that we liked it. Thank you, Keith. I may. I think I'm back in Glasgow soon, actually, or certainly nearby. Squeezing Suzanne, who's in Northwich. Suzanne, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. It's a geeky answer. It's the spiders webs. Yes. How much energy clarification. There isn't, because not all spiders make webs. Yeah, but that's. That's pedantic. The ones that do, I'm asking about, obviously. Yeah, but they all make different ones. Yeah. So you have something like a sallow spider. Yeah. We'll make a cottony web in the corner of the room. Correct. A garden spider will use, like, the child drawn spider. Well, any spider at all. Pick a spider. Go on, pick a spider. I'll go for a funnel web. And how much energy does it take? How much take does it for a funnel web to spin? A spread spider sped web. Because they're quite big. It takes about 30% of their body energy flipping. Yeah, because they. They. You. They don't. This is really going geeky. Something like a galvan spider will eat. It. Will eat its web and move it and then regurgitate. Yes. They use the amino acids and the proteins to remake their webs. A funnel web. So when you say 30% of the thing, that would be like me being on the rowing machine for so long that I used 30% of my body weight. Know your energy. Well, it depends what it's eating. It depends. It depends on the side of the size of the spider, so. Yeah, I know, but we're just focusing on one spider. One. One funnel web spider. So it's 30% of the last meal I ate or it's 30%. What is it? 30%. 30% of the energy that's in it. How much energy is in it? I'm thinking if you've eaten a thousand calories. Yeah. It's like 300 calories. Oh, okay. So a third of the available calories. Available calories, yeah. All right, qualifications? I did spiders webs for my dissertation. What was it titled? Spiders tensile strengths of spiders webs. Page turner. That one. That's a page turner, isn't it, Suzanne? Boring. I'm a geek. You're not a geek. Stop saying that. You're an expert. Have a round of applause and have a board game as well, because that was actually my favorite contribution of the day. Maybe that's why. You know when you see a horrible spider? Well, I think horrible anyway. A spider in like the. I don't know, the crevice of your ceiling for four days, and then you come home from work one day, it's gone. Yeah, maybe it was just resting, knackered after some webbing. Yeah, seriously, after a hardcore wedding session, they just sit there, don't they? That's exactly what it is. Unless it's dead, of course. No, no. If you missed any of today's show you can listen, but do you not like Spider? You know, when they're thin and spindly? I'm fine. But there was a big fat. There was one so horrible in my flat recently. I got my downstairs neighbor's ten year old child to get rid of it for me. Fantastic. Did you slip him a shilling? It was a little girl, actually. She was marvelous. She was marvelous. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you can also rewind live radio all LBC shows to catch up on, as well as all the latest news from LBC. So do rewind live radio on global player download for free from your App Store. Head to globalplayer.com dot. Tom Sawbrick with you at four, joined, remember, by Bridget Phillipson. But first, it's time for Sheila Fogarty, joined, of course, by Wes Street.