Why are insects so quick to get away?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien. We shouldn't do this, but I just said to Beth, these are all a bit rubbish. No offence to the people who've already rung in with their mystery, our questions, but they're not the best I've ever seen. And that is why now is your best opportunity to grab your place on the board. Especially because we just had a guest before the. Before the 12:00 news. It means that the ordinary invitation to ring in and book your place for. So the most popular feature on the program this week is a little different from usual. The number you need is zero. 345-606-0973 the way it works is thusly you have a question, a mystery bubbling away in the back of your brain to which you know there must be an answer. It can veer from the truly surreal, the profoundly silly, right through to the deadly serious. Any who, why, what, where, when, whither, whence, wherefore, you name it, we'll answer it. Or at least you'll answer it, because if you hear somebody else ring in with a question to which you know the answer, then, well, the road ahead is simple and easily navigated. You have to ring in and provide it. And if you call now, you will get through. It's like the radio equivalent of those newspaper features or those magazine features where Q and A's notes and queries. A reader will write in and say, what is the origin of that? When you see that, why does that happen? Why, why, what, where, when? And several weeks later, if you're lucky, somebody communicating via snail mail will provide you with what may be the correct answer. We are the 21st century equivalent of that, employing the very latest technology, radios and telephones, to effectively provide you with answers to your questions, your mysteries, almost before you finished asking them. Six minutes after twelve is the time. The only rules are that you're not allowed to be boring. I know what you're thinking, pot, kettle. But, hey, it's my show and you're not allowed to be repetitious, which is rather harder to police, although I am delighted to be joined by the former studio engineer on this programme, Jones. The engineer who is back on a sort of farewell tour of LBC towers, having retired 18 months ago to take up a career as a professor poker player. I'm not saying anything about the fact that he's back here doing shifts, reflecting upon how successful he may have or may not have proved as a professional poker player. I think he's just lonely. You're just lonely, aren't you? He's just lonely. He comes for fun. Yeah, it goes poker for money, LBC for fun. And that's pretty much it. So don't be repetitious and don't be dull. If you sense that Jacob and Beth are trying politely to steer you away from the switchboard, because they are clearly arriving at the conclusion that your question is rubbish. But they, unlike me, are far too polite to say so. Give them a break, guys. Throw them a bone. Move along, move along. And that's it really, isn't it? I think just crack on. Get some up if you've got one. There's a round of applause for anybody who goes definitive. There is also, of course, the very rare honor of a Rayliota for people whose qualifications to be on the program are almost unbelievably apposite. We had it yesterday. We had a Rayliotta yesterday when we were talking about some research out of Bath University, looking at this quest for perfection that is blighting the lives of so many young people and who turned up on the line but the chief author of that report, Thomas. So that kind of thing. So if I ask a question about. Well, the best one for me was the one about toasters. Irons. Irons, not toasters. Why do you always get irons and toasters? Oh, because of weddings. Iron. Someone rang in with a question about irons and I said, well, it's not very likely there'll be an iron designer listening who can answer your question. And then from Stockport, if memory serves, one of the country's premier iron designers rang in with at least eight irons on his cv, checked his credentials, absolutely kosher. Piled him with an answer. He got a Ray Liotta. So if we get a question about space and you're an astronaut, you'll probably get a Ray Liotto. If we get a question about policing and you're a policeman, you won't because there's loads of police people out there. Do you see what I mean? It's about the specific qualification to answer that question. Nine minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to mister with James O'Brien on LBC. And if you have a question, then I guess the next thing to do is to get it up and get it in front of us. 456-06-0973 is the name that you need. Nine minutes after twelve. And should we kick on? Freddie's in western Freddie. Question or answer? Question, please carry on. With regards to football clubs, what does the word Albion mean? As in, like, Brighton and Hove Albion, Burton Albion. West Bromwich Albion. Albion Rovers. I've never sort of really guessed what it means. I know what Albion means, but I don't know what it means in the direct context of football. No, what does Albion mean? Albion is the, is the oldest name for England or Great Britain. It's the oldest known name of the island of Great Britain. Right, okay, so why would the football club call themselves Albion? Because they're british? Maybe, but there's not, it's not like there's a plethora of west bromwiches all over the world and they needed to specify that they were the british one by sticking Albion on the end. Did they united? Makes sense. City. Makes sense. Yes. Harriers, kiddo minster Harriers. There's a question for a future mystery. Where does that, well, that'll be an old athletics club, won't it? Because Harriers. Yeah, all right. Albion. Why. So why, why does, so it's quite a few clubs, as you've reminded us. Why do they have Albion in their name? What does it mean in the context of their, of their club name? I like that. Who do you support? Which one do you support, Freddie? Spurs, actually. Oh. And I know what Hotspur means. So what does, what does Hotspur mean? That's from Harry Hotspur, isn't it? Is it? I think from the cricket club origins. Well, be Henry the fourth, part one. I don't know that. We do know what Hotspur means, but that's not what you rang in to ask. No. All right, find out why Albion. What does it mean in the context of football clubs? It's probably linked to the context of Great Britain, but I need a more, more rounded answer. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time, Freddie. Thank you. Neil is in Surbiton. Yeah. Surbiton. What was I reading about Surbiton recently? I can't remember. Carry on, Neil. Question or answer? Question. James. Happy New year to you. Same to you, mate. I've been told that the queen uses her handbag to signal her staff with different messages. Like a bit like a semaphore. So if she's with someone, she moves her handbag around. It means I need to sit down or I need to move on or whatever. I just want to find out whether that's true or not. Who told you? Well, it actually came back because my dad got an MBE a few years ago, and when I was with him at Buckingham palace. Yeah. The queen arrives and she puts her handbag down on the throne. Right. And I just started wondering what she was doing with her handbag, effectively in her own house. And of course you start, your mind starts to wonder a bit like, is there a revolver in it or something? Yeah, but I. Don't be weird. Somebody came in and told me, a patient. I run my car. I've never thought of it like that. It's lovely the idea that she's in her own house. I don't. I mean, I know she is, but it's. Yeah. Why would you have a handbag if you're in your own gate, if you're in your own house? Well, my mum always keeps her handbag next to the sofa when she's watching the telly. Is that the same? I'm trying to think of the kid. A minister equivalent of the queen putting her handbag on her throne when she comes in to dosh out some MBE's. My mum always keeps her handbag next to her. It's got a glasses case in it and a phone and stuff like that. Maybe you're overthinking it now. Yeah, maybe there's a tracking device in it or something, or some dog treats. It's probably got. I bet you a quid it's got dog biscuits in it for the corgis. So who told. Who told you that she uses it to communicate, which makes sense to me with her servants. I can't remember who told. Oh, come on, Neil, it's all about sources, mate. Yeah, well, it was. A patient comes in, see me as a chiropractic clinic in Kingston, and I can't remember who it was just off the top of my head. Who would know? And if they did know, would they be allowed to tell us? Well, yeah. Well, maybe they can't be. It can't be that secret. Does the queen use her handbag to communicate silently with her staff? You must have an equity or someone listening. Almost. No, we have most members of the royal family listen. Maybe her Majesty's listening. She might. She's not. She's never gonna ring in. But there are plenty of people in the palace who do. I have an impeccable authority that the two princes barely, barely leave the house, or indeed the palace until this program is over. If one of the princes rings in. Yeah, a ray Liotta. You might. You don't know, but they'll get several. 13 minutes after twelve, does the queen use her handbag to communicate silently with her staff? And what does the word Albion in a football club title signify? Zero three four five, six. Zero six, zero nine seven three. Thirteen minutes after twelve. Francine is in Crystal Palace. Francine, what would you like to say? Hi, James. Just wondering about accents, where they came from, where they originated. Either someone from Wales sound different from someone England. I think we've done this before, but it's a beautiful question. Sorry. No, it's not your fault. I mean, I think there are a million different answers, actually. Yeah. My favorite is the idea that where I come from in the black country, the report of the reason they talk like this is because there was so much pollution that everyone's nose was permanently blocked. Oh, wow. And that's where. That's where the Birmingham accent comes from. But I don't know if that's true. It makes. It is an agreeable patina of plausibility to it. And then I suppose you've got proximity. So Liverpool probably has a large irish contingent, so people. But then you're going to say to me, where did the irish accent come from? And I'm going to say, oh, I don't know, Francine. Why do we all speak in different accents? I imagine the answer has something to do with environment and climate. But that's not going to butter any parsnips, is it? Because. Yeah, it's the same for, I guess, most English speaking. And also, yeah, in America as well. Of course, you can go from the New York right through to the kind of deep south and the, you know, boss Haag. Is it true? What about in other countries where we don't speak the language? Do they have accent? Do people speak Indian in lots of different accents. People speak Gujarati or French in lots of different. I know they do French and I know they do Greek because some of my greek friends used to take the mickey out of me for sounding like a sort of cretan peasant when I pronounce certain words in a certain way. Let's find out. Accents. What is the received wisdom on why accents vary 1215, often in relatively small parameters as well? I used to have a party trick. It wasn't much of a party trick where I could pretty much identify, certainly parts of Cheshire. I don't know why. I think it was because when I was at boarding school, you only really hear one accent. Sort of variations upon received pronunciation. And then when I went off to Manchester when I was 16, it was my real exposure to lots of different accents and everybody was from the north west. I became really good over the course of that summer at being able to say, oh, you must be from Sandbach or you must be from Congleton. Not so much the man. Manchester suburbs. I couldn't say you're from Chiltern cum hardy and you're from Cheetham Hill, but I oddly developed this was a borderline party trick. Shall I stop now? That's three days running. We've kind of out partridged Alan Partridge. Aha. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Great news. We've heard from the Department of Education about whether or not they are prepared to explain to you as voters, taxpayers, people who may be considering going to university, or perhaps a parents of people considering going to university, what it is, or whether. Whether of the fact that the man appointed to be a university's adviser by Joe Johnson, the university's minister, has publicly made statements about everything from anal rape to his desire to have sex with Helen Mirren, and whether or not that is in any way relevant to his suitability for public office. And they've got back to us because we were very specific this morning. We said, we really want you to address directly these public statements which many people, many decent people of all political hues would consider to be vile and utterly unacceptable, to the point where the mayor of London was not prepared on this program earlier to read out any of seven tweets I'd selected and handed with him live on the radio. To be fair, it's a blooming good job he didn't, because at least half of them would have seen me taken off air immediately for breach of Ofcom's broadcasting regulations. But it appears that men considered suitable for advising this government on universities are perfectly entitled to say in public things which, if I said on the radio, I would be carried out of the studio in a very unceremonial fashion. So we've heard back from them on this very specific question of whether they would address the tweets made by Toby Young about everything from his desire to have sex with Helen Mirren, his admiration of the breasts that belonged to, he thought, the wife, but it was actually the underage daughter of the film director Danny Boyle. And, of course, his hilarious quotes, joke end quotes about analy raping an american television presenter called Padme Lakshmi. That's just the twitter stuff. We also asked yesterday about the journalism, in which he describes children with special educational needs as illiterate troglodytes and suggests that providing wheelchair access in schools is a sign of excessive political correctness. So we didn't want to hear the general statement about the appointment, which they kind of cut and pasted and sent to us yesterday, claiming that somehow he represents diversity on this advisory board. We wanted a very, very specific response, because we all pay taxes and we all have an interest in young people and we all care about university education, and we all believe that public life should involve certain standards, don't we? All of us? Whether we vote for the raving monster loony party or the communists or indeed UkIP or labor or conservatives or liberal Democrats, we can all agree on that. These things matter. So we wanted to know why. And they've got back to us, and they've told us exactly what they've told us, that they've said everything they're going to say on the subject. They've declined completely any opportunity whatsoever to explain why. Joking about analy raping somebody in public is. Oh, well, there's a surprise. Anyway. Boris Johnson thinks he's great because he's got a caustic wit. That's the only statement I think I've seen from a government minister. Boris Johnson is, of course, the brother of the man who has appointed Toby Young to be an adviser on university matters. You'll remember, of course, that Theresa May insisted, when she gave her speech shortly after becoming prime minister, that she was going to fight furiously against accidents of birth, affording undeserved privilege to people. So I'll run that by you again. Toby Young is an associate editor of a magazine called the Spectator, which used to be edited by Boris Johnson, who has defended the appointment of Toby Young by his brother, Joe Johnson. I tell you what, though, we're sticking it to the establishment at the moment, aren't we? Thanks to Brexit. Should we go back to mystery o? I think we should. 23 minutes after twelve is the time. Steve is in Oxford. Steve, what would you like to say? I mean. Sorry, I got distracted by my own spiel. Question or answer, Steve? Question. Please don't put me on the naughty step. The phone. That's part way. As long as it's only in the phone, my friend. Carry on. It's only in the phone. My question is, at what viscosity does fluid become solid? And I'll be amazed if even an anorak like yourself knows the answer to that one. Well, I'm not an anorak on physics. I mean, I've told you this before, I've got a d in physics at GCSE. It's a source of eternal shame to me. I suppose that could be partly chemistry as well. But it's not going to be the same answer for every liquid and solid, is it? Well, you have to define viscosity, because water doesn't get viscous, does it? Doesn't water just go straight from water to ice? It doesn't go through a period of thickening. The viscosity is the state at which a fluid resists the tendency to flow. So, you know butter, for example, if it's solid. Yeah. Then that's butter. And at what point if you melt it down, at what viscosity does it then turn into fluid? So what are you looking for? A percentage? Or. It may be that I don't understand the question, but I've got a sneaking suspicion at the moment that you don't either. No, I understand the question, but what is the official measure of viscosity then? I don't know. So you don't. So you've asked a question which presupposes the existence of a measure that you don't know exists. Oh, don't eat. Realize. Hang on a second. By the way, I've got some. I got some gum for my addiction, but I'm still listening, which was your advice last year. Good man. No, all I know is the viscosity is the state at which fluid resists the tendency to flow. So at what point does. But I think it's different for all fluids, mate. That's the point I'm making. Right, okay, so mercury and butter are not going to admit the same answer, are they? Yeah, I see a point now. Or indeed, water. I don't know if water has any viscosity above its normal status, because it's. Well, ice crystals form in it and eventually it won't flow at all because it's ice. But the water content. Hang on. Because now I feel like I'm asking a completely ignoramus question. To be fair, that makes two of us. How about then, right? You can't rewrite, you can't edit it. It's not Facebook, it's Twitter. Come on, let me. Let me. Right. How about I've got a bowl of melted ice cream. Yeah? Yeah. So that's Ronnie. It's a fluid. You sure this is making things better, Steve? Yeah, I think so. All right, come on then, let's go. It's making my colleague laugh anyway. Carry on. So, is he laughing with you? He's probably laughing at me. But I take my bowl of runny ice cream, which is a fluid. Yeah. And I put it in the freezer for x amount of time. Yeah. And let's say 2 hours later, that comes out and it's a solid. Yeah. So the state at which that resists the tendency to flow. No, that's freezing point. There's got a freezing point? Yeah. What about just below freezing? Well, I don't know that again. I think ice crystals form. Ice crystals form in the cream. It's not a question of viscosity, it's viscosity, even variable. I don't know that viscosity is linked to heat with every liquid. I don't know that viscosity is variable. I think liquids have a viscous property. Yeah, I think you're probably right. Different. Different liquids or different fluids. Well, but you're presuming that there's an increase in viscosity up until the point of solidification? I'm not sure there is. I think you're confusing freezing with thickness. Tell you what, then I'll get out of the way and make room on the phone line for someone with an answer for this stupid question. Give him a round of applause. Being a top lad. What's your call? What's your colleague's name? Steve John. You spoke to him? He's spoken to you. Should I say carry on? 26 minutes after twelve, Dwight's in Battersea. Dwight, question or answer? Did you understand that question, Dwight? I wasn't really listening to. That's because you were on the phone to the producer, not because you were losing the will to live. Question or answer, Dwight? Question. Yeah. So small insects, they see us coming as presumably in slow motion. Why presumably in slow motion? Because they get away really quickly. They know, they see us come in quite early. Yeah. So you think that because when you try and swap a fly, the fly flies away somehow the fly has possessed a power to slow time. No, because they're really small. So they. We're. So if there was a giant here on earth. Yeah. We would see it trying to hit us probably like a few minutes before it lands. So we're able to get away because they'll be slower. Really? I seem so. I know everything's. Let me have a thing. Let me have a thing. So, no, I don't know that we would necessary. I'm just. So you think that let's let leave giants out of it. But I think they've been recorded cases as a human being that's eight foot tall. Right. Let's get jaws out of Bond. You remember jaws in the James Bond films? Yeah. Right. So you got really. So what? He was really. So was he. Where do you ever catch anyone? That's all effects in it. So you got jaws. Jaws is standing here. Right. And then you got Warwick Davis standing next to him. And they both take a swing at you, starting at the same time. Obviously, the longer the arm, the longer the distance it takes to cover the space. But you think that somehow jaws is going to be in slow motion and Warwick Davis is going to be in fast forward. Obviously, that's more of a scale. We're talking giant and we're talking ant compared to us, right? So the question is, leaving aside the slow motion red herring, much as I would happily continue conversing for several hours about that side of your question, leaving aside the slow motion element, you want to know how little insects managed to get out of the way so quick? Yeah. They've got eyes in the back of their head. Think about a fly's eyes. He's big, bulbous eyes. And as soon as they sense any disruption in the light patterns, they're off, mate, out of there. Now, they might. Some of them have even got antennas. You know what antennas are like, don't you, Dwight? But just because you see someone coming, that means you can get away quicker. It does if you're a fly, mate. They've got wings. Yeah. We're talking ants. That's how they got their name. No, ants are slow. Ants aren't that slow. But compared to, like, if we were that if. Anyway, what we put out, then. Well, I don't know what the question is yet, mate. Well, if we were. If there was a giant, compared to the scale of an ant, compared to us. Yeah, would we. But. But it takes, obviously, if a giant is from a to b is. It's a longer distance for a giant to swing his arm around. So it takes a little bit. Bit longer, but it's not. It's not moving more slowly. So to them, are we. Are we speedy? What? So, to the giant, are we fast or, you know, no fly? I'm not. I'm not 100% on the. On the question that you're asking. I mean, what should we start again after the news? Okay. Are you all right? You're gonna be all right for the news? Are you sure? Yeah. All right, well, stay there then. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. Dwight is in Battersea, still on the line. Dwight, do you want the good news or the bad news? Bad news. A lot of people think you're high. Possibly. The good news is that. I think I understand your question. I know. That's what I'm coming. That's the good news. I think I understand your question now. Right. Remind us what it is again. I have made it a bit easier for you, though. Thank you. If a fly was the size of a bus, would it still be as fast? I think you're looking through the wrong end of the telescope, Dwight. I think. I think what we're talking about is the speed with which insects process light. So in other words, you know when you look at a wheel going round and round and round and it, after a while, man, it starts like, looking like it's going backwards. Yeah. Yeah. That's because your eyes and your brain, the journey from eye to brain is finite. It goes at a certain speed and it would need to go faster. Do you see what I mean? Yeah, I understand that. So I thought you might. So the fly is processing images quicker than what we can. Yes. Are we getting there? Right, I'm going to bring in Duncan in Richmond. Don't go away, Dwight. Duncan, Richmond. Question or answer? Hello, James. Happy New year. It's an answer. Carry on. This one. Oh, good. This is something I remember from my childhood and when I was wondering about it and I asked a question, I asked my dad, why was he hides and wasps and ty. Sorry. No, I think that was Dwight. It wasn't me. All right. I asked why small insects can fly around and avoid things. Yeah. And avoid being swatted. And it's to do with. I can't remember the technical term. Flicker frequency or flicker frequent. Yes. They perceive light much, much quicker than we can because their metabolism is higher. There you go, Dwight. You got it. But then explain that. That spider that can stand on water. But then if it was massive, it wouldn't just be silly. Duncan, I'm going to give you a round of applause. Dwight, don't go away. I've got some very important advice for you. All right? This is round. Dwight, mate. Yeah? Do not get a haircut. All right? Because all hairdressers are in the employment of the government. Hairs are your aerials. They pick up signals from the cosmos and transmit them directly into the brain. This is the reason bald headed men are so uptight. 1237. Dave's in Sandhurst. Dave, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, David. It's the Albion question. Why does it appear in football club titles? It first appeared with Brighton and Hove and the Albion. You were kind of right with the old name for Britain. Yeah. Then the name was reserved for areas of coastal Britain with white cliffs. Are you reading this? No. Okay. Where are the white cliffs in West Bromwich? They're not there. They adopted the name from Brighton and Hove. They just took it on afterwards. So the origin is from Brighton and Hove. Alvion. And then as others, it was adopted qualifications. It was. I like weird facts and I had a football encyclopedia when I was younger. I like. That's a good qualification. I just. I don't know that I've been persuaded sufficiently, but. So Brighton and Hove Albion called themselves Albion, but there aren't any white cliffs in Brighton, mate. Either. It's in Sussex. It's not in Kent. Where are the white cliffs in Brighton or Hove? I don't know. I just remember reading it. I feel bad now. I don't, I don't. So why did. But none of. There's not one single bit of your answer that works, Dave. I'm just repeating what I read. I know, but I've got to work it out out loud now. So it's called Albion because of the white cliffs. But there aren't any white cliffs in Brighton and. But it began in Brighton and then it got copied by West Bromwich and others. There are other albions as well, which are all inland. Yeah. Not Burton. Correct. I ever told you about the time I won a ton of money on Burton? No. Remember they got a score draw. They got a score draw with Manchester United in the FA cup about ten years ago, about twelve or 13 years ago. And I called it with Paddy power. And I must have been the only person in the country to call it. Right, because they sent me a signed Burton Albion shirt when Nigel Clough was manager. Oh, okay. Yeah, good call. Yeah, thanks, mate. I'm going to give you a round of applause because I'm feeling generous and I'm still reeling a little bit from Dwight's call, but I'm also going to acknowledge that someone else might be able to ring in with an improvement upon your answer, Dave. Okie dokie, that'll do. Thank you very much. Everyone's happy. Ben's in Tunbridge. Ben, question or answer? Hello, James, how are you doing? I'm all right, I think. Ben, how are you? Interesting show today. Carry on. I've got a question for you. Yes? Do babies cry in the womb? Like cry in utero? Because my daughter's six weeks old tomorrow and, well, know that she, well, she was hiccupping, yawning, and all her movements are the same. So the second she came out she started crying and obviously she's been crying a lot since, so I wanted. Do they cry in the womb as well? Well, they got no air in their lungs, so they can't cry in. Well, not, not crying. Well, the action of crying is what I mean. Let me say, obviously you're not going to hear any sound. But she hiccuped all the time and she continues to hiccup a lot now. So all her actions since she's been born. How do you know they've been, exactly? Oh, you mean she could. She couldn't have just suddenly learned it the minute she popped out? Well, yeah, but if she hiccuped all the time. Yeah. Even when you put my hand on my wife's bed. Yeah. And then, you know, like, the movements. Of course I. But now when she sits in that chair and she does the same, and then when she gets angry, it's actually boxing. I could listen to you all day. You're still in that. She. Is she your first? No, she's not actually my first. Is she not? I could just listed the wonder. With every child. I've got this theory that every birth and every death feels like for those closest to. It feels like the first one in history, doesn't it? It does a little, yeah. Love it. I love it, I love it, I love it. Let's find out. Yeah. Okay, so what, I mean, you're crying, most obviously, but other reflexes as well. Like there are white cliffs in Brighton. I would like to retract that statement. Has been before my phone lines disappear. Yeah, everyone's piling in on that. All right, clever clogs. My apologies. Apologies, sir. I gave him a round of applause and they're still complaining. So it's all the reflexes, isn't it? Like a cough or a sneeze or a hiccup or a. But most obviously crying, because that's prompted by all sorts of different things. I shall hopefully find out for you. You get much sleep, Ben? No, not really. 1241 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number. Do babies cry in the womb? Something about viscosity. Where do accents come from? Does the queen use her handbag to communicate silently with her staff? And you could improve upon the Albion question, although the white cliffs conundrum possibly adds to the plausibility of the answer, provided Callum's in Liverpool. Callum. Question or answer? I've got an answer. James. Carry on, mate. About the viscosity question. You had a guy calling up asking, at what point does a liquid become a solid in regards to viscosity? Correct? Well, a liquid becomes a solid at the point when viscosity doesn't exist for that state of matter. Essentially, what happens is when the crystalline structure. Sorry. When the structure becomes crystalline in a solid, viscosity disappears. Because what viscosity is, if we talk about kinematic viscosity. It's a ratio of. So it's a ratio of absolute viscosity, which is a shear stress inside the material. Yes. As a ratio of the shear rate of that material. Got you. And then that's over a density, which is obviously variable with temperature and pressure. Yes. So there's no answer. The answer is no. Yeah, there's no answer. There is no viscosity. The answer is no. Yeah, yeah, but no, but. Because you are clearly an incredibly clever bloke. Well, I'd say mechanical engineering, is it? Or biochemistry. And yet you're in that. We're now in the realms of theoretical physics. Because you're right. But there isn't an answer. But there is. The answer is that there isn't an answer. Right. Yeah. The answer is that when it's a solid, it has no viscosity. And prior to that, there's no increase in viscosity. That would hold true across all liquids. Can any liquid increase in viscosity? Well, yes. Kinematic viscosity increase as a variable of temperature. Yeah, got you. Oh, mate. Qualifications? I've already done. Postgraduate student at Liverpool. John Moore's university. Love it. Look at that. Fantastic. Good luck. What are you going to do with it, do you know? I'm hoping to start a PhD in September. Fantastic stuff. 1244 is the time. Round of applause for Callum. John is in western. John, question or answer? I've got an answer. James, carry on, mate. About the queen using her handbag. Does she use her handbag to communicate silently with her staff? Yes, she does. And what she will do if she's at an event? She will put her handbag on a table, for argument's sake, which signals that she wants to leave. And she'll also move her handbag from one arm to the other, obviously, if there's no table there. Yes. And that was signals to her staff or her echelon that she wants to move on or, you know, she needs something. What if she wants a gin and dubonnet? Uh. Well, I think she'll just ask for that. Sorry. So it is just. It is. It is. Move. I'd like to move now. That's the only message she communicates? Pretty much, yeah. I mean, I'm sure there'll be, you know, other messages and signals, but that, you know, that is definitely one of them. That if she puts her back down or picks it up, then she wants to move on. She's had enough and wants to go. Qualifications? I did 22 years in the queen's guards and my brother is a royal protection officer. Oh, come on. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Nice. Right, John? You have to share that with your brother, though. Thank you very much. You're listening to a podcast of James O'Brien from LBC. We've had a lot of fun this year. This year, four days old, this week on Mystery Hour. But I don't know that we've had a lot of satisfaction yet. Some answers that really need providing are to the following questions. Do babies cry in the womb? Where do accents? Why do people who live relatively close to each other or grow up relatively close to each other? How come they can speak with such vastly different accents? And, I mean, I don't mean class based. I don't mean they went away to boarding school and came back talking like Prince Charles. You know what I mean by that? And the Albion in football clubs. A few of you are suggesting that West Bromwich Albion is actually older than Brighton. So the idea that they copied Brighton, Brighton got it from the White Cliffs, and then west Brom copied, but may not hold water. Don's in yeovil. Don, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Don. The baby. Does a baby cry in the womb? Yes. Well, they believe it does from 28 weeks onwards. Who's they? Well, I'm trying this out at Christmas. Basically, I'm about to become a proud grandfather for the first time. Congratulations. Can I ask how old you are? Um, 58, James. That's pretty young, mate. Well, you know, slight young. No, I mean in a good way. I'm envious. I don't actually know. Do you know what? Actually, my eldest is 50. No, that's about right. 58. I take that back. I apologize, Don. My apologies and my congratulations. Well, it's very kind of you, James. Go on. So you were having a chat at Christmas? Well, basically, my daughter in law was down for Christmas and our dog would not take eyes off her stomach. So we decided to do a little bit of research and found out that, yes, they believe baby cried. 28 weeks and they believe dogs can hear it. Shut up. No, no, seriously. You haven't been hanging out with Dwight this morning, have you? No. Are you sure you haven't been popping around Dwight's for a little bit of a livener? James, I couldn't possibly. So, the dogs can hear babies crying in the womb, but there's no air, there's no noise. All right, well, the fight, the phone lines, gone. South. I'm going to give you a round of applause because you had such beautiful qualifications, but I'm being very, very, what's the word? Profligate. With my rounds of applause today. The ray Liotta was deserved, I felt, for the brothers. But there's not. Can a dog hear a baby cry if there's no not, man. I don't know. I don't want to. No. I usually come a cropper when I start being all condescending and superior. Only on mystery. Rest of the time, it's a joy to behold. 1251 is the time, Don. Good work. Good luck. Joe Guilford. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on, Joe. I'm sorry if it's boring, and I do apologize if it's been asked before, but something's been really playing. You sound as if you're surprised that you got through. I am, actually. This is not. This doesn't bode well for Bethan and Jacob. Go on, then. It better not. What's it going to be? Question. Okay, question. So, considering how many millions of pigeons and birds there are flying around the skies, why do you never see a dead pigeon anywhere? Well, do you know what? First of all, is this some sort of New Year's joke? No, not from you. I'm looking at my colleagues. Right. Okay. Second of all, I still get tweeted pictures of dead pigeons from when someone asked this question about five years ago. Really? Yes. Every time. So what you've done now, every time someone sees a dead pigeon, they take a picture of it and send it to me, which is not only quite unpleasant, but it's also quite disturbing. Well, I did apologize before I came on, so there we are. Sorry. No, you did. I mean, you do see. You hardly ever see dead ones because of foxes and scavengers and things like that. Right? So that's the answer. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, thanks very much. You sorted that out. You're very well. But never, ever, ever send me an I can't. If I say that everyone's gonna do it again, it's just not normal. All right. Your round of applause for me, actually. Yeah. Dang your joke. Good man. Carry on. Zero, three, four. I've got room for. Well, what have I got room for? I need answers. Accents. Someone answer the accents question. The Albion question. We've done the babies crying in the wound. I can't believe we put a pigeons question on the board. I'm frankly baffled by that. Kaya is in Sheffield. Or. Answer. What's happened? Phones have gone nuts. Oh, Lord. Bear with me for a moment, 1253, as I attempt to prevent present the last six minutes of a radio phony show without any phone ins. Have we got them back up yet? The phone's working now. Should we try it? Let's just try this one. Tanice is in Maidstone tennis. Question or answer? It's an answer. It's a bit of an adjunct to your. For the babies crying in the womb. Oh, am I going to feel silly for mocking him? No. Oh, good. Carry on then. No. Well, I have a dog and I'm also six months pregnant. And I'm pretty sure that my dog can't hear my baby crying in the womb. But obviously you feel kicks and you feel sort of rolling sensation as they get larger, but you can also sometimes feel them vibrating. So I looked up what this was. Some of it is like when you do a massive stretch. You sort of do that sort of shaking when you have a big stretch. Some of it is that, but some of it is babies practicing crying in the wings. So they do cry in the womb. 28 weeks seems a reasonable cutoff point for that. Are we, and you are skeptical about the possibility of a dog being able to hear a baby crying in the womb? Yeah. Well, why was Don's dog staring at his daughter in law's bulbous stomach quite so much over the Christmas period then? Well, dogs stare sometimes at lots of different things. And also, I think they do know that there's something different about, you know, they might be able to see movements that perhaps we can't see as much if we're not paying attention. Well, she wasn't sitting there naked. No, but you can see them through the. Through the clothing. You can see movements through clothing. What's that in the background? That's my daughter. Oh. How old is she? She is coming up for two in February. Do you want to know something weird? What's that? My daughter is in the background as well on mystery out this week. She's just joined me in the studio for the last five minutes. Hi, James daughter. How spooky is that? She just waved, bless her. She's never been on the radio before. I'm gonna give you a round of applause. Yay. Only because I've kind of lost the thread of what we're talking about. Okay. All right. John's in reading. John, question or answer? Answer, mate. The page of pigeon question. I'm a tree searcher and we've spoken before. All the pigeons are stuck in the trees with a dead one. Yeah. Yeah. When we take conifers down. They're all stuck in the trees. Squirrels, all flat. Pancakes. And. Yeah, they're stuck in shrubs. The reason you don't see them mate, because they're on the ground. Yeah, that makes some sense, actually. But you would stop laughing. You would expect to see more, perhaps, and that will be because of scavenging. So if. You know, because if some pigeons can die in mid flight and it destroy, it's not going to land in a conifer, is it? Or that's another part of your question. For example, where we are in reading, there's a large red kite. I know there is. Up the m 40 around stoken church and around there. That's why you see there's a lot of dead birds in the main roads. It's because the scavengers pick them up and eat them. They do. And the bridgings that you find, basically, you can't see, are stuck in shrubs and stuck in trees. There you go. It's just consummate, this, isn't it? So in an average. What are those horrible one called that everybody hates? Pigeons. Squirrels. No, the trees you prune, not the animals. Pyrocampers. Leyland eyes. They're not too bad. I hate pines and pyrocampers. More in a massive conifer. How many pigeons would be a kind of impressive number to find? And how many would be an average dead, obviously. Average. One average rotten eggs nest. Probably a couple. Round of applause. Who'd have thought being a tree surgeon could open up so many vistas of learning for you? Go on. Great work. I had a question about trees myself. I've forgotten what it was. Kaia is in Sheffield. Kaya, question or answer? Hi, James. I've got a question. And so I was just wondering where butterflies go in the winter. Where do butterflies go in the winter? Yeah. Because I'm scared of them and so, like, winter is a great season for me. Well, in that case, this isn't a bad answer at all. They're all dead. Really? Yeah, they all die. Okay. So how did they come back in spring so quick? Well, they don't. They. You know what a caterpillar is, right? Yeah. And a cocoon. Yeah. Yeah. So they kind of mate. I can't believe I'm doing this with my daughter in the studio because she thinks. She thinks I know stuff that you get a daddy butterfly and a mummy butterfly and they mate and lay an egg and then that doesn't hatch until spring. It stays dormant throughout winter. The butterflies die. The egg turns into a what's it and the what's it turns into a widget and the widget turns into a butterfly and everyone's happy except you because you hate butterflies. What's the maddest thing you've done to escape a butterfly? Oh, well, I've actually cried at the sight of a dead one. So why would you cry the sight of a dead one? Surely a dead butterfly is the only good butterfly in your world. Yeah, I just don't like the patterns on the wings and everything. I wonder what happened to you as a baby. Yeah, I wonder that too, sometimes. It must be because, I mean, butterflies are one of the least offensive things. Imagine where they're beautiful. I love seeing butterflies flutter by. But you don't see. With me it was basset hounds. I got molested by a basset hound as a baby when I was in one of those strapped down baby chairs. You know, the bouncy ones. Yeah. And I had a big problem with dogs for a long, long time, especially very saliva ridden dogs. But compared to you, I got off quite lightly. You're terrified of butterflies. Anyway, at least I got a round of applause out of it. That's it for another day. We'll do it all again tomorrow from 10:00 perhaps we'll have heard from the Department of Education about why they consider it unnecessary to explain why a man who makes. Do you know what? I can't say, can I? What Toby Young makes jokes about on Twitter? Because my eleven year old daughter is in the studio with me. But never mind. That doesn't in any way compromise his suitability to advise this government on the universities that hopefully one day she will go to. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.