Can you lock a plane?

Ah, three minutes after twelve and everyone can breathe again. You know, I don't even need to mention that Miss Jr. Is on the way before people start ringing in, which is obviously slightly irritating for those who are new to the party. So rest assured we will rattle through. Guys, I actually noticed three phone lines for you already. If you're quick. Zero 345-606-0973 you know how it works. The. The mysteries, whether serious, scientific or downright silly that are bubbling away in the back of your brain. Can today, before 01:00 be solved by the massed ranks of my genius listenership? And the way it works is this. You ring in with a question. Who, why, what, where, when, whence, whither, wherefore, whatever it may be. The invitation is then for someone else to ring in and answer it. Anything goes. We're very short on rules, very short on regulations and very short on requirements. But the one thing you do need to know is of course, the number. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. What is the question to which you would most like today to discover an answer? I think that's it. You're not allowed to look stuff up. You're not allowed to use Google or an encyclopedia or anything like that. Or you're not allowed to in any way consult research resources. You have to obviously confine yourself to knowledge that you had before the program started. That's part of the reason behind the inception of the idea. And we try and avoid repetition. But given that, we'll do our level best to avoid repetition. All right, Rayleigh otters, if you provide an answer, just wait and see. All right. Trust me on this one. Roland's in Detroit. Roland. Question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on, mate. So it probably goes back to your childhood. Maybe you've heard this. People used to say the word rabbits on the first day of the month. My girls do this. White. White rabbits, isn't it? White rabbits. No. You. Not that I don't know about the color of the rabbit, but I think you've kind of got the late 20th century edited version of it. It was white rabbits version. Well, I thought that and. Cause I've not heard this for years and years and years. My mom used to say it, years and years and years. I knows you. How's your back? Sorry. Carry on. And then I'm down with my present girlfriend. And don't call her that. Only girl. Don't call you flipping egg. Roland. You sound like Boris. Johnson's current partner. It's not your present girlfriend. She's your one and only. I know. As soon as I said that, I regretted it coming out of my mouth, because she's lying right now. It's all right. It's all right. You're not on national radio. International radio, anyway. I know. I know. Just as well. My mom used to say it a long time ago, and then she said it the first day of the month this month. Oh, well, can I have a go at answering it? I don't know. Years? I've never heard that. You know, and so why do people say rabbit at the beginning of the month with an r in it? Because. Is it just with an r in it? Oh, they've all got an r. That's what. I'm good. Apart from May, June, July. No. Well, I don't. Well, look, the way it works in our house and I don't. Is your inamorata american? Yes, officially. Okay, so in our house, what if you say white rabbits, then you immunize yourself from pinch punch, first day of the month? Ooh, no, I don't think my mom was that violent. No. But you've heard of pinch punch first day of the month? I have, yeah. Yeah. So in order to avoid getting the pinch and the punch on the first day of the month, you say white rabbits, and then you say no returns or something. Right. I'll put it on the list. Why do we say white rabbits at the beginning? It's very hard not to make the list. Roland, I think you've got enough problems at home now after that ludicrous outburst regarding your present girlfriend without me adding to your burdens. First day of the month. Why do we say I think it's. But I want a definitive answer. You know, this might be one for Wayne in Basildon, who inhaled Brewer's dictionary of phrase and fable about five years ago in order to circumvent the mystery, our rules and requirements. Because you are allowed to have looked stuff up in the past, you're simply not allowed to look stuff up on the spot in response to a question that is asked on the radio. Right. Texts. Today. We're having fun with Simon. Right. Okay, Keith, serious or silly? This text. Do you think. Do you think Simon is being in good faith? Because I have had this question so often. Could James please explain his regular references to the Rayleigh otter? Rayleigh was home to the late, lamented maplin electronics, but I have never heard about its relationship with otters. Do you get this? I get this. A lot people think Rayleigh Otter is a reference to a marine mammal, an amphibious mammal that lives in Raley, a town in Essex. It's not. It's Ray Leotta, the guy out of Goodfellas. And the voiceover on field of dreams. I think possibly the fact that he, I might play it out, actually, just so that people know what it is, because, look, here it is. All right, this is it. I'm Ray Liotta, and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Ray Liotta. If you build it, they will come. Ray Liotta. That's how I know I've got to stop saying Ray Liotta. So everyone else thinks it's Ray Liotta because you see it on the poster and it's l I ott a Ray Liotta. But there is Ray Liotta, Ray Liotta himself. If I say Ray Liotta, no one's gonna think I'm talking about an amphibious mammal in Essex. So anyway, he is the man who does the voiceover on field of dreams, where he says, if you build it, they will come. And Kevin Costner builds a baseball field in the middle of a cornfield and all these ghosts of brilliant baseball players from the past come and play a game of baseball, a ghostly game of baseball on his baseball field. And Rayleigh older is like the voice of the, of an angel almost, isn't he? And or of the most famous dead baseball player most clearly. And he does the voiceover. So when he came over about 146 years ago to be interviewed by my friend and colleague Steve Allen, who I finally saw the other day, honestly, I was like sunshine on a rainy day. And he's looking very well, you'll be pleased to hear. And Steve asked him. Steve said, would you mind recording this for my idiot colleagues? And Ray Liotta recorded it. That's the real voice. And we reserve that award for people whose qualifications for answering the question that they answer are almost too good to be true. So if we asked a question about a toaster, and you had invented the toaster and you happened to be listening and you rang in and answered it, you'd get a radiola. I'm glad we cleared that up. I think Simon's question was in good faith. And now you will, hopefully, Simon, understand it has absolutely nothing to do with, um, amphibious mammals in Essex. Richard is in bath. Richard, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Okay. Um, well, I've been watching a few science documentaries over the past few weeks, and black holes keep coming up. Oh, yeah. Um. And I just wondered, what's at the bottom of a black hole? Because a hole is a hole, isn't it? So there's no. I don't know. No, a hole isn't a hole. Well, a black hole is a hole. I don't know that a black hole is a hole. What's the black hole of? Nothing. Well, I think it doesn't necessarily have a bottom. I think that might be the point. Well, that's my question. I know. Is there a bottom? And if there is, what's that? You're only allowed one question. Okay. What's at the bottom of a back hole? I'm hoping one of your professors might be able to answer, what if there isn't a bottom? How is that? Why is it. I've been reading about black holes as well. I thought. I thought I'd just forgotten it, because effectively it sucks everything in, doesn't it? Yeah. And where does it go? Everything in. It's that stuff in. So is the stuff still at the bottom but really, really small? I don't know. I like it. I normally do a little tribute to David Bowie at this point. All right. Have you familiar with the hunky dory album? Yes, I am, yeah. So I normally go holes. Holes? As in holes. But I'm not going to do that today because I like to keep people guessing. Richard. Fantastic. You mind how you go. What's at the bottom of a black hole? And why did we say rabbits on the first day of the month? Tim's in Norwich. Tim, question or answer? Hello, James. It's a question. Please carry on, Tim. Okay. So I live quite near Norwich and frequently drive on the bypass that runs by Norwich airport. Oh, yes. Usually pretty quiet. A regional airport. I know it well. The park and rides up there as well. That's all right, yeah, it's all gone a bit. Alan Partridge. Tim, let's wheel it back quickly. Can you hear me okay? Loud and clear. Carry on. Yes. So, anyway, as you drive sort of past it, you can see across the fields towards the Runway and the terminal. But as a result of, like, the first lockdown, loads of european airlines have used the parameters to park, like, dozens of their jets on. Yeah. And as you drive past them, it got me thinking. How do you lock an airline jet? Is there like, a set of keys for each of those just hanging up on a board in the airport somewhere? And if so, is it like a car where you then need that key to start and fire up the ignition? I just had visions of pilots walking across the fields and getting halfway across before patting their pockets and thinking, blast, I've left the flipping keys. Or they've forgotten what plane they're supposed to be flying, so they just press the button and wait to see which one bleeps. Yeah, that's it. Yes. No, I think this is a brilliant question, more complex than that, because otherwise, you know, when planes are going backwards and forwards and crews change hands, someone's surely not just handing over a set of keys, but they're all going to be unlocked, are they? There you go, John. Catch. And I'll tell you what, if they're feeling a little bit fruity, in the 1970s, they all used to throw them in a bowl on a coffee table in the terminal and wait. No, let's leave that one. We still do that. Yeah, well, yeah, carry on. When you say perimeters, are they not behind fences? Oh, yeah, yeah. But they're quite close to the cause. I wouldn't be shocked. I don't know about you, I wouldn't be shocked if they're not locked. Well, I don't know. I mean, they are pretty accessible. It's not a particularly high fence, being Norwich airport. It's not like huge security stuff going on there. You would be able to scale it if you decided to just get in there. But I suppose it leads to the second point that, do you need a key to start an aeroplane? Could I just walk in there and press an ignition button? And it would go. If it's got fuel in it, I like it. Let's be honest, Tim, just between you and me, I'll just turn it off so that none of the listeners can hear the next bit of the program. All right, can we put on green sleeves for everybody? Thank you. Keith, are you planning on nicking a plane? Now? That's an outrageous allegation, but if you're in, I'm sure we could come to some arrangement. If you're looking for one, that's why you're going to nick it for a joyride. I didn't realize you were going to try and flog it. Let's try and find out. Tim, can you lock a passenger jet? Can you literally lock it like a door? Zero. 345-606-0973 because we've all seen that massive handle, haven't we? But I don't think I've ever noticed a little keyhole. We shall find out. We'd better check with the Civil Aviation Authority. We don't want to be responsible for, you know, a stampede of nefarious types upon the airfields of the UK. That's three questions, by my reckoning, rabbits on the first of the month, what's at the bottom of a black hole? Or what's in a black hole even? Do they lock passenger jets? Zero. 345-606-0973 more questions. And possibly, although you never know, we are on LBC with James O'Brien and it's 18 minutes after twelve. The mysteries are mounting, the solutions are coming. Stuart's in Tottenham. Stuart, question or answer? Question. Whilst I'm here, James. Sorry? Whilst you're here. You didn't ring in by accident. Jim, this makes it sound like I've just bumped into you in the corridor. You've rung a national radio station during a feature dedicated to questions or answers. Okay, fair dude, carry on. Question, answer. Stuart, go have a cup of tea, please. No, no, you can't, Stuart. Okay, okay. Well, basically I put on the garden lights this morning because it was dark and I was going to work for the dogs to go out and do their business. Can't wait for the autobiography, Stu. So she's come in, he's going to me. Why have you put the lights on? Yeah, so the dogs can see what they're doing out there. Yeah, seems reasonable. She wants to make. Dogs can see in the dark. I said, can they? Oh, can dogs see in the dark then? I don't know, it's a question. Can they? Exactly. That's why I stuck a then on the end rather than a question mark. Dog sit in the dark then. Because cats can. Exactly. She is your good lady, is she? Uh, yes, fine, it's cool. No, I just meant. You just said she's come in and I thought. Who's come in? Oh, sorry, sorry. No, no, no, that was this morning earlier on when I was in the kitchen on the garden light. I know, but who came in? Oh, the other half. Yeah, yes, your better half came in. It's just other people listening. Might have been a bit confused about who came into your kitchen after the dog had gone out to do its business. So cats can. Can dogs. Yeah, I like it. And who. Have you listened to this program before? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But you've allowed people to do it before. I have not. You have. I have not. I swear blind you, Ann. I swear blinder, I haven't. Oh, I allow you, just this once. Yeah, I'll leave it on the board. Frankly, you should be grateful, coming on my show, pretending that you've just stumbled into it by. Oh, all right. While I'm here. I'll ask you a question, then. Like what? I just don't know why I bother. Some weeks I really don't. Can dogs see in the dark? Zero. 345-606-0973 can you lock passenger jets? What's in a black hole in space, not in your garden? And why do we say rabbits on the first of the month? Anne's in Bordeaux, in France. And question or answer? I've got our questions, James. Carry on. Right. Well, first of all, I'd like to. I'd like to get over the formalities. That is, one, I'm nervous. Two, you're in France. I know. Be nervous. No one's going to know it's you. Yeah, I know, I know. I'm just. Okay, I'm incognito. All right, here's my question. Yes? I noticed the other day something that I've been absolutely blind to for the last. I don't know how many years. I'm not telling you. My age. And that is, why are there two different forms of the letter g when it's printed in lower case? Usually the answer is to do with printing, actually. Yeah, but why we kept both, as it were. And what? You know, one is so different from the other, it goes all the way back to Greek. Gee. It's one of the letters. That doesn't help. Gamma, you tried to blind me with science. It's not. I know. It's a lovely question. I'm just trying to work out. I mean. I mean, you could. I mean, there are different f's as well, aren't there? Sort of. Well, they're a very slight variation on the theme, but the g. So what's the other one? You've got. You've got the sort of circle with the tail. What's the other one? It's like a pair of glasses. You've seen vertically. You see? You haven't seen it either. I don't know what you're talking about. Oh, gosh. That's all right. Don't worry. Imagine I put my pair of glasses not horizontally on my face. Listen, I don't want to. I don't want to sound ungrateful, but I know what vertically means. Anne, if you think that there are two, there's one that's round, a smaller round with a little like. Yeah, I know what that one is. I'm just can't. Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. It's like an eight. Yeah. Why don't you just say the one that's like a figure eight. Instead of wanging on about your glasses being upside down. Well, for me. Well, they just look like a pair of glasses on the side. Yeah. Or there's the one that looks like an eight with a big fat bottom. Well, it's the same thing, isn't it? There's one that's got a. That's the one that's like. The glasses is the one that's like an eight. An eight is much more useful than saying vertical glasses. Listen, which one of us is the professional broadcaster? Ann? Yeah, sorry. That's all right. Thank you. So why do we have two lowercase G's still in circulation? Yeah. And. Well, the subsidiary question is how come we never noticed? Yes, I asked. Well, I had noticed. You know, I think the companies. No, it's not. Or. No, anyway. Yeah, no, but that's the old one. That's the normal one. Ah, come back, come back. I think. I think one of. They're actually both the same, but one has completed the bottom loop and one hasn't. That's. One's got a little thing on the top. Like a little. Like a little. Like a single antenna. Yes. Yeah. Okay, you're on. I'll do it on the board. Okay. Kind of you. No, I know. 24 after twelve is the time. Not a great phone line. I worry sometimes if I'm struggling to hear stuff that other people might not be able to. So why are there two different lowercase G's? My G's zero. 345-606-0973 John's in reading. Question or answer, John? Question, please. Okay. Better wear one, but here we go. So, tried to buy some size ten boots recently and they are only sold in EU sizes of size 44. 44. But the problem is, is that depending on the manufacturer, they vary in size. So they could be a four in a size ten. It could be a 44 or 45. Or 43. Why is that? What? Yeah, yeah, exactly. Is what I said. I mean, you could buy a size ten and some come up bigger and smaller and some brands, like, for example, because this is the important stuff, why people tune in. I find I wear a smaller adidas than I do a Nike. No, it was just a case of. Basically, I go, I've always bought a size ten, five size ten boots. But what's the question? Why is that? Why can manufacture. Why. Why is it where they vary? Why they vary? But ten's always 44, no use. No, that's not true. Really. I. For that. Yes. Fighting. Seriously. That's fighting talk. That is, John. That is. You try and buy a mind. Come on, then. Come on, then. Mind your boots, you. They only do it in 45s, but they're ten and a half. That's ten and a half. No, they're class of ten. Yeah, because they don't do half sizes. So that's a big ten. I don't know what the question is. The question is why. Why are they just transferred over the size tens? Okay, so why is there vary. Why doesn't ten always equal 44? What's what they're doing with the 45? Perfect. It's a brim full of asher. That'll do me. That was very niche. I was just waiting to see if we were going to be of a similar generation and fondness of the old dance music. John, well played, I think. No idea. Barry's in Saffron Walden. Barry, question or answer? I've got an answer, actually, James. All right, mate. And he said, can you just to cotton pick minute. Did you even notice the energy levels that were unfolding on this radio program before you came on air? I do. There was exuberance in the studio. Old John in reading there was joining in on a surreal flight of fancy. Everyone was sort of buzzing and kicking and giggling and then, with the greatest of love and respect, Barry, you arrived like a wet weekend. Sorry, mate. That's all right. Carry on. I can't help you. Question or answer? I've got an answer, actually. It's whether you can lock an aircraft. Oh, good. That was my favorite question so far and the answer is good news, actually. You can't lock it. Hang on a minute. A special message for the Norwich Constabulary. Get yourselves over to the airport sharpage and look out for a funny looking fella in a Renault five with wire cutters. All right, sorry. Carry on, Barry. Yeah. And if he wants to know how to crank it up, obviously, it depends what it is, but if it was an Airbus, for example, it's got two large batteries on board because it needs to have electrical power and some air capability. As long as they're working and they're in the correct position, you could fire up the auxiliary power unit, which sits in the tail, which is a small mini engine. At that point, you've got good electrics and you've got air. You then need to put two more switches in the correct position and the engines will be up and running and away he can go. That is happy days qualifications. I'm a retired British Airways pilot. Ah, well, that puts me in a rather awkward position. Oh, dear. No, oh, dear me, Barry. Not oh, dear. You because the last thing we need is British Airways pilots who giggle like superannuated schoolboys and get caught up in atmospheres of euphoria and excitement. That way madness and quite possibly tragedy, lies. So I'd like to apologise for lampooning your serious demeanor and instead, thank you for having precisely the levels of seriousness and gravitas that we should expect from our pilot brothers. Well, thank you very much, James. I shall take that round of applause for Barry, please. Oh, man, that was a lovely answer. So literally, they're all wide open, just hopping. Did I ever tell you about this? I'm surprised I didn't get shot, to be honest with you. It's a good job, me, from my own background. So I left my phone on a plane at Gatwick and I realized before I'd got to the. I mean, even to the terminal, you know, I'm just on that weird, you know, all those escalators at Gatwick where you sort of go up and down a mountain. And so I thought, well, I'll just go back and get it. So I went back and there's this lift. I just thought, I'll get in this lift and misses O'Brien's got the kids and the suitcases, so she's not exerting her usual influence upon my more rash decisions in life. So I just get in this lift, it goes down, it comes out airside. I walk out onto the Runway, there's a bloke there with the ping pong bat, and I say, I've just left my phone on that plane, mate. Do you mind if I. He said, well, you shouldn't, really, but go on, be quick. So I run up the stairs onto the plane and I go to where I'd been sitting. Three c, I think it was, if memory serves. And I'm going into the pocket, the back of the pocket, and it's not there. And you know that feeling when you've lost your phone? It's one of the worst feelings in the world because you've got your whole life on it. And I've got one of those sort of grandad wallets with all my cards in it as well. And the pilot comes out of the cockpit and I say, I'm terribly sorry, do you know, has it been cleaned yet or. I'm just trying to get my phone. He says, you shouldn't really be on this plane, you know. I said, I know, it's all right. The fellow there just said, yeah, we've just got in from Athens and the fellow there said I could come and get my feet. We haven't just got in from Athens, we've just got in from Copenhagen. So I'd been wondering. Oh, dear. I just felt that was one of those moments where if the cards had fallen slightly differently, it could have ended quite horribly, that is, in jail or possibly on the end of a taser. And then a lovely bloke, I think his name was John, he went back in and found my phone. This is why you tune in for these anecdotes, isn't it? Don't pretend it's not Bill overly. Four is the time. Ben's in Birmingham. Ben, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Ben. Okay, black holes, firstly, they're not holes, they're spheres in space. Holes. And at the center, there's a singularity of mass. Ah. So all the mass is crushed down to a single point. That's what causes the black hole. So there's no singularity of mass. Does that translate into layman's terms? Basically, imagine you took all the weight of it and it was crushed down to just a one point. Infinitely small concentration then. Yeah. So, like, if it was Vimto, it would be like you got the cordial and then you distilled the cordial down even further. So you started off with two liters, but it would still weigh the same as two liters. Yeah. It would just be smashed down, pushed down. Yeah. All right. I think I'm just going to check with my man on the clapham omnibus. Do you mind just bearing with for a moment, Ben Keith, is this making sense to you? Yes, carry on, Ben. So, like, if you took, like, the mass of the earth, it'd be a black hole the size of a ping pong ball. Wow. But that's actually just the event horizon. The actual singularity is inside. Got it. Like, right at the center. So can you get in it? That's open to debate, because as you get closer to the event horizon, time slows down. Yes. Well, every. You'd keep slowing down and diamond down, so you'd be like, reach the edge and time to stop. So the black hole is what is left behind when the big thing that was there before got, I think the technical term is smushed, smooshed down to a tiny little singular mass. Basically, once they reach a certain density, it will just crush down. So it's not actually a hole in the sense of it having one side and then another side. It's more a vortex. Yeah. In space and time. Or in space, anyway, and possibly in time. Given what you just said about the event. Listen, mate, I'm so out of my depth. What are your qualifications? I've got a degree in astrophysics. It's not exactly rocket science. I do love using that joke. I was gonna say, I can't believe you laughed at that. Because everyone who's ever heard what your degree is in must have inflicted that dad joke on you, as my girls would call it. I love that. Thank you, mate. You've got a lovely laugh as well. I gotta give you a Ray Liotta. All right. Yeah. I know there's lots of people in the world with degrees in astrophysics, but there's something about the combination of your laughter, your communication skills, your natural charm and your ability to convey complicated theories in simple languages. Aren't you the biggest prize I can give? I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you. If you ever watched the film interstate Stella. Yeah. He's so unimpressed by the Ray Liotta. It's just me that was excited about that. Go on, interstellar. Go on. Ben, you ever watch Interstellar? The black hole in that is actually was Kip Thorne, who's a really great astrophysicist, helped develop the visuals for that. And it actually formed some theories of some papers on astrophysics. So that's probably the most authentic. Or attempt. Yeah. Get to seeing one without being smushed. I love it. Yeah, good. I told you that was a technical term. He's an astrophysicist. I'll give you a round of applause, Ben. Although this probably won't touch the sides either. Oh, that was clever. Unintentionally. Thank you. And quite a few of you a little unimpressed by my use of vimto in an attempt to understand astrophysics. Oh, dear. 1238 is the time. Doctor. Dog is here. Thank goodness Fieri is in Rome, I presume. I know why you're here, but you're always welcome to have a crack at black holes and white rabbits. Or indeed, shoe sizes in continental Europe. Viera question asks. I'm going to stick to the dogs this time. Answer the doggy question. They can see in the dark. Yes. The answer is yes, they can. Well, put it this way. They can see a lot better than we can. They estimate around about six times better than we can. And there's several reasons for that, because their eyes are built differently. So you've heard of cones and rods? Yes. You know the cells that are responsible in the retina for color and for movement and for light. Yes. Well, dogs have more. I think it's rods which are. Which concentrate light, basically. And the. I take your answer. You're already over the line. Just to be clear, then, when John's dog went out to do its business in the garden this morning, he didn't need to turn on the outside lights. No, he didn't. Right. Unless, well, if he went out as well and then couldn't see where the dog did the business, and inadvertently, yes. So maybe the light was more chapter two for the dog. That's chapter two of the story, Vieri. That's not chapter one was his good lady said to him, why have you put the lights on? And he said, so the dog can see where he's going. And she said, well, he doesn't need the lights. Cats can see in the dark. So can dogs. And he rang in to say, can dogs? Because cats can. And you're here to tell us that? Yes, they can. Well, his. His wife was absolutely. I don't know if they're married yet. I don't want to cause any awkwardness. And if you light. Shine a light in a dog's eye, it will reflect. Course it. And ours will not. Why is that? Remember we talked about this before? Yeah, I do. Remind me, why? Why is that, then? Pretty much the same question. Do dogs eyes reflect light? Don't say it like that. You made the show sound repetitive and derivative. Go around in circles all day. God. And a round of applause for Doctor Dog. Thank you. How many is that now? Oh, I don't know. A few. I was just thinking before, when you're talking about Ray Liotta. Liota Liota. Ray Liotta. I've had. I've had two. Two radiodas. Unbelievable. You are one of the world's. You are one of the world's leading dog behaviorists, spreading his wisdom and genius across the whole of Europe. So it's not that surprising that you might have had a couple. But I don't know if you're ever going to get another one, now that we've established your credentials. Well, who knows? Well, we've stopped being surprised by them, haven't we? But we remain impressed, Vieri. We remain impressed. Well, thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Take care. We'll speak next time there's a doctor. Unless someone jumps in sooner, you're more than welcome to, but Doctor dog's credentials can find them online. 1241 is the time, Helen. I've got a couple of phone lines free. Heaven's above. That never happens. Let me tell you the question. Still in need of answers. Continental shoe sizes. All right, it gets better. Why don't continental shoe sizes match up completely and consistently with. I think that might be a touch of english exceptionalism, actually, as I repeat the question out loud, why do we presume that continental shoe sizes all match up with each other? I bought some rather nifty sandals in Greece recently, but I'm not sure that the size that you get. Anyway, that's the question. Why is a size ten not always a 44? Why does the lowercase letter g still come in two forms? We've done the jets, we've done the black holes. And why did we say rabbits at the beginning of the month? Zero. 345-606-0973 and we have a few spaces for more questions. At the moment, Helen is in Hayward's heath. Helen, question or answer? Question? Please carry on. Okay. Why do men's bikes have that crossbar at the top and women used. Have a step through. Oh, and I'm gonna have to answer this question quite delicately. What's that? Sorry. I'm gonna answer this question quite delicately. Do you know why side saddle exists as a way of. Well, it was because that's how women. It was polite for women to ride that way. Why? Because of their dresses in the old times, I think. I don't know. Partly because of their dresses in the old times and partly because of the perceived inappropriateness of straddling the horse. Right. And that's followed through with bikes. Correct. I mean, as a cyclist, I'm very pleased not to have a crossbar on my bike. It's easier. Yes, and it is easier for men as well. But I think that the structural integrity of a bike with a crossbar is greater than the structural integrity of a bike without one. So. And also, I mean, if it was going to be done for physical comfort alone, it would probably be men that didn't have the crossbar, because that's what I've always thought. Yeah, same here. How do I get the crossbar? Well, thank you. Because if I slip off the saddle. If I slip off the saddle and land on the crossbar, I'm going to do myself a lot more damage than you are, Helen. I know, as it goes. But the answer is, I thought it was some either saddest or masochistic invention, men like the crossbar, because they went to that sort of school. No, it's so that you don't have to swing your leg up like Bonnie Langford in order to get on your bicycle. That's it. Same reason that women used to ride side saddle, for reasons. Decorum was the word I was searching for, and it arrived. Decorum, yes. And that kind of victorian prurience and, you know, baked in sexism and all of that malarkey, literally, it does come from horses and side saddles and things. Yeah, well, not. I don't know if it comes from horses and side saddles, but it comes from the same root of institutional sexism and women being expected to, you know, know their place and what have you and not. Not behave in a way that. It's back to the days when if a man got aroused by a woman, it was always the woman's fault, you see. So it's that kind of mindset. It's the ankle theory, isn't it? Bingo. It's the ankle theory. Exactly. So that's literally it. Just because the bicycle was invented at that time of thinking. You sound surprised. Once a slot won, you did come out, except for the structural integrity of the bicycle. So these days, with tempered steel and what have you and carbon fiber, it probably doesn't matter, but I wonder whether back in the day, you would have been more likely to break your bike than a bloke that's got a nice little alliterative twang to it, hasn't it? But I'm going to give myself a round of applause, Helen, with your permission. No. I've been wondering that since cycling a lot more through lockdown, why do they have the crossbar? Yeah, I know. So have I. Well, I haven't. I've been cycling a lot more during lockdown. But the crossbar question, unless there's a stewards inquiry, I'm going to take my round of applause and I'm going to wish you bon voyage, Helen. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We're actually going to have a look at the road stuff today. I know we never talk about roads on this program, but I am intrigued by all these plant pots that are popping up and how angry some people are getting about them. They're designed to make us use our cars less, and everyone who has had to use their car less is getting really angry about it. I kind of. There's a circularity to that that I think we should visit at some point, possibly tomorrow, but clearly not today. Coming up at one on LBC zero, 345-606-0973 it's 1249. That's almost it for this week, so do squeeze in, if you can, with your answers. Zero, 345-606-0973 Joe is in St. Albans. Joe, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Okay. I was curious and have been for some time. And if my friends can't answer this, do you know what you've just done? You've really built up the tension there, Jo. I hope all the callers are listening and paying attention to what you've just done, because now I can't wait to hear what your question is. Yeah, it's pretty unusual, actually. What's irrelevant to the term blue when it's associated with movies, as in, and also when people say turn the air blue, they're using bad language, but it's not used much nowadays. But if I have, like, friends that photographers, and they say, do you know what? I haven't got a clue why you need to get better friends. Because I know. I don't know. I haven't googled it. I have to say also, what would you google? Because I'll tell you what you would need to google to get the answer to your question. God knows what the site would come up. Yeah. Actually, don't google it ever. All right. But you could Google this. You could Google this. Ready? Okay. Blue pencil. Blue. What was it? Blue pencil. Oh, any, any little, any little acorns there sprouting into saplings? Yeah. Do you know what, actually, yeah. Because if you. I can't believe that people don't even know nowadays. What do you mean you can't? You've moved quickly. You've just gone from not knowing to not being able to believe that other people don't know. No, I didn't. The censor. The censor. Censorship would be done with a blue pencil. So blue becomes the phrase used to describe stuff that should be censored. So blue. A blue, blue. Blue pencil. Do you know what? Thank you. I'm going to save that now so when I can get back out with the girls. I mean, I've got better party tricks. I'm not going to lie to you, Joe, but, you know, whatever floats your boat. Whatever floats your boat. Okay. That is it. I'm 99.999 percent sure that it's because the sensor used to be careful. Yes. How I'm going to come across. But no, it's a brilliant question. So you would use it. You could even do it on film. You'd have the blue pencil on film. It would be on paper. It would always be the stuff that. The sense. When I was at boarding school, there were a couple of lads whose dads were in the oil industry. And they lived out in the Emirates or in Saudi. I forget precisely which one it was. And one of them used to tell a story. I've got no idea whether it was true or not, but they used to take videos off them. If they found, they'd try and get them into the country. Like, not porn, but something like. In this case, I think it was basic instinct, the Sharon Stone film, which is obviously pretty blue in places, my mate dean told me, and I don't know whether it's true or not, but I've dined out on this story for about 35 years, so I hope it was that. By the time his vhs copy of basic Instinct got confiscated at Jeddah airport and it went to the religious police, or the blue pencils, actually, to stay on theme, and when he got the video back, it was eight minutes long. Again, I've got no way of verifying that or checking it, but some things I don't think you should, because the stories are too delightful to spoil by introducing reality. Kind of like brexit. Applause for me, please. So, take care. Ed's in tooting. Ed, question or answer after. James, I've got a question for you. Oh, yes. And so I was watching killing Eve quite a while back, and Jody Comer, the actress, changes her accent quite a lot, and it got me thinking whether lip readers can see accents, if that makes any sense at all. I love that question. I wish he'd gone earlier. I was there. Ring app. During the first lockdown. But you had so many kids and I didn't want to spoil the. Fair enough. That vibe. Yeah. No, I mean, that was a lovely moment, wasn't it? It was very special. Beautiful. Um. I'm trying to think whether we could work it out because you. And the reason it comes to me is because her mouth changes shape versus what accent she's. Yeah, but I mean, up to a point, it does. I. Presumably the. The basic points of pronunciation would stay. I'm just going to get Keith to watch my mouth while I do a selection of first class rada style accents. Ed, you ready? That's ready. All right. They do that, don't they? They do that, don't they? They do that, don't they? Now, what do you think, Keith? Did it look the same? Oh, the microphone is in the way. Wait there, Ed. I'm just going to do it again. I'm just going to lower the microphone a bit. They do that, don't they? They do that, don't they? They do that, don't. I've just changed my tone again. Let me try again. All right, Liverpudlian. They do that, don't they? Irish. They do that, don't they? And now Birmingham. They do that, don't they? What do you think, Keith? Do they look the same? About the same. About the same. You're not going to take that as an answer, are you, Ed? Well, afraid not. I can't say that. Sean Connery. Sean Connery's got a very. Sean. Sort of. Sean Connery. Sean, Sean. The name Bond. James Bond. I'm also not sure whether you have had to have had hearing to understand the accent first and then had lost. Let's not overcomplicate things. All we need is a lip reader, a really good quality lip reader, to tell us whether or not accents present insurmountable problems. Perfect. Zero. 345-606-0973 got three and a half minutes left. L is in Newbury. L. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. I'm answering the question about G's. Excellent. So the loopy g is called a double story g. Yes. Which is also the same as the a that you get with the tail above the top. That's called a double story t. Ah, yes. And they come from a type style called roman type, which I think originated from actual roman lettering. So they would have created the lowercase and to make the lowercase G more obviously different to a lowercase C, they added the tail and the loop, which meant that it was the most common sort of european manuscript style. Makes sense in the 15th century, which is when typography, printing press, all the rest of it. William Caxton. Yep. So it kind of in the more sort of more serif styles, like you'd get newspapers, most often you get that g. But then in the Santa styles, the more simplistic styles, which are more like our handwriting. Now you get the other gE, which love it. That's. I mean, one is a hangover from a previous era and one is the updated version, effectively. And now they're kind of more of a stylistic choice. Yeah. I love it. In fact, some people get quite excited about fonts. I do. I had a feeling you might. What are your qualifications? I'm a graphic designer. Well, that'll be why. Yep. Round of applause for Elle. Great work. I love that. 1257 is the time David is in Nottingham. David, question or answer? Answer. James, carry on. Basically, it's the lip reading one I saw a documentary about, probably about two or three years ago. I think it was World War two in Colorado. Oh, yeah. And they had a lady on there and she was able to tell the accents of the guys with. From a soundless film. Shut the front door. Well, honestly, mate, it may have been Channel four, it may have been BBC. I can't quite. So she could still lip read clearly? Yeah. But she could also identify regional accents by the shape of the mouse. I remember. I remember watching it like it was yesterday. Qualification. Saw it on the telly. Yeah. Qualifications. Round of applause for David. Round of applause for David. Great work, mate. Of course, it makes sense, actually, because you stretch your mouth like that, don't you? Simons and Milton Keynes. Simon, question or answer? I've got an answer. James, we've got a minute left, I think. Is that the lot, Keith? Have we done them all? Is this it? Pressure's on, Simon. This is for a clean, clean sweep. Clean sweep. Simon, they'll call you from now on. Carry on. Okay, let's go. So it's about the footwear sizing question or the size conversion question. And I think your. Your comment about english exceptionalism was not entirely wrong, although probably sort of part of the answer. So there are different sizing systems in the EU or on the continent. The french sizing system is more common, which uses different increments when it jumps from one size to the other. So in the french sizing system, it's about six and two thirds millimeters. So there's no such thing as a continental sizing system? No, there's a variety of different ones. And we just presume that we do it one way and you lot all do it the other way because that's, you know, that's bad. Brexit happened. Nice. Nice turn. You take. No, I take it everywhere. That's it. I'm going to give you a round of applause because we're out of time and I've got to do one more joke before we go. Round of applause for Simon. Thank you. Where's Sheila? Is she upstairs today? Okay. That irish accent I did was deliberately bad as an homage stroke. Nod to this new film, Wild Mountain time. All right. Very niche joke, that. I hope you got it. Here's Sheila. I thought your scouse accent was okay. They don't that. Don't do that. But I have to say, over the years, male scouse voices have got Jupiter and Jupiter and Jupiter. It's all a bit like that.