Momentary deafness in a yawn?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Oh, three minutes after twelve is the time. And an hour, well, you know, events allowing an hour of relief and escape from the horrors that we've been discussing all week. Your weekly opportunity. Well, it's not actually at the moment, is it? Your occasional opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you know how this works, works, then book your place now. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. If you don't know how this works, well, you're in for a bit of a treat, because it is routinely and regularly the most uplifting and amusing hour of radio, probably anywhere, without a script on british radio. And I say that not because of my paltry contributions to proceedings, but because of the beautiful unknowability of what unfolds. If you've got a question, a mystery that you think admits an answer, ring in an. Ask it. If you hear someone ask, ask a question to which you know the answer, ring in and answer it. That's pretty much it. Don't like motoring questions much because they tend to be dull. Although as I age ever more, that that rule is dissolving slightly and we try to avoid questions that we have answered before. Although referring to my own age again on that one, we tend to avoid answering questions that we've answered before that I can remember answering. And given that the mystery, our board game, which is available, of course, soon to be in your shops, currently available at Mysteryad Dot co dot UK dot, given that people have now already started citing that as a source for knowing the answer to a question, it's fair to say that my memory is not very reliable when it comes to knowing whether or not we've dealt with an answer before, we had one a couple of weeks ago that I described as a brilliant question, and I can't believe that's never been answered before, or indeed asked before, and it turns out it's actually included in the board game. It is actually one of the questions. What do I say? What are your qualifications? I've got the card from the mystery out ballgame right in front of me, James, it's got your ugly mug on the box and I'm literally reading it out now. And I had 40 minutes previously said, ooh, that's a. I can't believe we've never had that one before. That's a good question. So there it is. And I'm not joking. Some people seem to think that both the mystery, our board game and indeed my colleague Keith, are invented, are sort of theatrical flourishes, designed to build a sort of universe of the imagination. They are both very, very real. Keith. Not currently for sale, but mystery out board game, very much for sale. Cost you about 20 quid, but go over to mysteryad dot co dot UK to find out more. 1205 is the time. Liam is in Sheffield. Liam, question or answer? Hi, Liam. It's. Question, please. I'm James. You're Liam. Oh, sorry, James. What have you got? I'm asking about red wine. Yes. So when you go to the shop and you buy red wine, it always comes in colored bottles. So either a green bottle, brown bottle, black bottle, and I'm wondering why they don't sell wine in clear bottles. Get some red wine in. You get some red wine in, do you? I'm trying to think, when are you going to drink it? Very quickly. So if you're buying it, like I often do, a very short notice. I think it. I mean, it's fairly obvious, isn't it, when you think about it? I don't know. It must be damaged by the light. I'm not. It must be damaged by the light. That's what I was thinking. So I was just wondering why. Well, we'll get an expert on, but I'm pretty sure that it's going to be. The word that we're going to be hearing is probably oxidization, I would have thought. And that light would accelerate oxidization and oxidization would make the wine taste rank and that would. What? But then you would say, why wouldn't that apply to white wine? Why wouldn't white wine oxidize in the same way the red wine does? Oh, I like it. No, we shall put it on the board. Thank you, Liam. Lovely stuff. Why do we sell red wine in coloured bottles? 034-560-6097 is the time. Josh is in Brighton. Hi. Hi, James. How you doing? Pretty good, mate. Question or answer? Question, please, bud. Carry on. Well, I'm in Brighton, but I wanted to say I'm born and raised in Droitwich on junction five. I've only had the pleasure of going to one kiddie Harriet. Game, mate. Have you time? So you could be a glory hunter. Now you see, Josh, now the big. Now the good times are upon us, you could get. You get yourself down to Agborough whenever you can. I did it from London the other day and the batch was abandoned after ten minutes because poor old Matt Preston got. Got injured. So badly. That was a journey. Luckily I got to see my mum in the evening so it didn't really, you know, matter much. That's the bonus. I can stop, I can back off in Wyerford or where they live now. But mate. Yeah, I've got a question anyway. Do all mammals get morning sickness? My wife is pregnant. Second time and. Thanks, mate, but she is having a horrendous time with it. So what do we want to. I mean, all mammals or do we just want to know whether any other mammals get mornings? I was thinking maybe any other, I guess because we're closely related. But. Yeah, I'd quite like that. I mean, we shall find out for you. You'd imagine so, given that there's probably some sort of evolutionary explanation for it and there'll be shared roots back in the day. But we shall. We shall find out. Josh. Thank you, mate. Nice little bit of homesickness kicking in now after Josh brings back the green pastures of my youth. Eight minutes after twelve is the time. And somebody. What did you say? Someone else texted while Josh was talking, listening to our mister James OB on LBC. He's just made me purchase a kidney. Minister Harrier's official top. That is the power of radio, says Spuddy. That is indeed the power of radio. I should be on commission. Nine after twelve and Jill is in Beckham. Jill, question or answer a question? Carry on, Jill. It's about spiders webs. Yes. You often see spiders webs with no spiders in them. You do? And I wondered, do they just live in one web and then abandon it and move on? Or do they have several webs on the go at once? Like sort of trappers setting traps for animals so they circulate around their webs collecting their booty. Yes. Like a sort of weekend home or a dakar to give it a russian flavor. Yes, exactly that. A weekend I like. Yes. And I mean do the big spiders that are really mean spiders have like loads of webs. They're the ones that are popping around the place with, you know, like oligarch spiders. We're talking about Jill. The ones that have got webs everywhere. I was thinking more of sort of people who go and set traps for catching animals in the Arctic. Yes. Spend the day touring their traps and finding out. Yeah. What they've got. I shall find out for you. I like that. The spiders operate more than one web at the same time. Zero. 345-606-0973 I don't want to tempt fate, but we do very well on spider based questions for some reason or mister. Yeah, we've got quite a few. What would you call them? Arachnophiles that listen to the program. Ten after twelve is the time Howard is in Tunbridge. Whilst Howard. Question or answer? Oh, James. It asks only. It's a question for you. Carry on, Howard. Well, I've been dying to ask you one of two questions and I've decided this is the one I'm going to ask. Good man. So back in the days before anaesthetic, take an example. On board our ships when a sailor was injured, he had to have an amputation. They used to give the person something to put in their mouth to bite onto either a piece of wood or I think Atlanta days, it was like a bound piece of leather or something like that. In operating theaters where there was no anesthetic. And I can't for the life of me find out what this thing is called. What it's called? Yeah, the thing you buy. The thing that you bite down on or the process of bite. I thought you were going to say why do they do it? I was getting all ready to. I was getting all ready to give you a smug answer on Howard. Why do you think, Howard? How hard can it be? I don't want no smug answers today, James. You'd be lucky, mate. Have you ever listened before? Many times. No. You're barking up the wrong tree with that one. So the process or the. Or the. No, no, the name of the actual thing that you bite down on. Yeah, I got the name gavel in my head, but it's obviously not gavel because that's the thing you bang down. It might be mine. Okay. No, I like that. So, I mean, particularly on ships, you probably did have it, you know, an actual name or even a nickname. What was it called? The thing you pop in your gob to bite down on when they're chopping off your leg. Absolutely. I love it. Howard. We shall try and find out for you. And then no doubt if you're anything close to my age, we will have forgotten by 20 minutes later. Eleven minutes after twelve is the time Oliver is in Walthamstow. Oliver, question or answer? Hello James. It's a question. Carry on. I was wondering, so if a pregnant lady was to go on a cruise and the baby was born on international waters. Yes. What nationality would the baby be? Would it be born a pirate or, you know, it wouldn't be ah, what's the baby called? No, it'd be the. Be the. Whatever. The ship is registered a P and O cruise liner baby. No, this isn't quite as funny as you thought it was, Oliver. Because, I mean, the pirate, the p and o. You've got ten minutes of material already prepared on this. I could tell, but no, it would be registered in a territory with whatever flag it was flying. The captain can do weddings and I'm pretty sure. I don't know if I'm going to go definitive on this, but I'm pretty sure the baby would have the. Oh, no. Because it might be the nationality of the parents passport plus. Plus the nationality of wherever the ship was registered. That's what I was thinking. Yeah, well, you could have dual nationality, but you may not even. Okay, it's a better question than I thought. It's not as funny as you thought. It's not as bad as I thought. So we'll meet in the middle and try and get an answer that solves both of our mysteries. If a baby's born on a ship, what nationality would the baby be? Would it be anything to do with where the ship is registered? Would it be decided entirely by the nationality of the mother? Or would it have something to do with where the ship was? Thank you, Oliver. I like that baby. What have I written down? Babies on ships. Oh, yes, that's, that's correct. Oliver's question is there. 30 minutes after twelve is the time Elaine is in Aldershot. Elaine, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Question about the weather. Go on then. Okay, so when the weatherman says it's 22% chance of rain, is it going to rain? Like, is it, is that when it's going to rain or does it rain for 22% of the time? So 22% chance of rain. So, yeah, so is it going to rain? Okay, so I presume. What am I even thinking of? No, that's quite perfectly the correct sound effect to make when I come out with an I presume, on a quested. Like, what would I know about that? We've got a flipping scooby. Well, this one's been bugging me for ages and I keep trying to do the math and I can't. Well, I imagine. I imagine it's just as bad as I presume. I pontificate, Elaine, that you've got some meteorology in front of you. Like a warm front coming in or a cloud coming in. And that if it is of thickness x, it's like a hundred. So it depends how thick the clouds are that are going to be over the country at the time that the weather forecast is for something a bit like that. So it'll be something to do with the density. No. The moisture levels in the. No, I want to know whether I'm taking an umbrella. When they say is 20 odd percent chance of rain, well, that means. That means that there is a 20 odd percent chance of rain. So that means that, you know, it's five to one, isn't it? Or is it 20 odd percent of the time that I'm out today? No, it's definitely not that. But quite how they work out that. Well, I say definitely very stridently. I don't. I mean, it seems unlikely otherwise they'd say it's a 100% chance of rain. But it's only going to last for 20 minutes, wouldn't they? Yeah. This is how confused I am with it. Yeah, I'm now equally confused. So what does it mean when they say there's a 22% chance of rain and now I want to know how they work it out. Given that this is a slightly extraordinary mystery, you've taken it a step further. I just want to know if I need my brolly. But what does that even mean? You don't. You do need your brolly, but it depends how risk averse you are. So would you tell, would you take a brolly on a one in five chance? Uh, yes, I would. Well, there you go. That's your answer. You need your body with you. Is it gonna. Yeah. Isn't there an argument, though that it will rain for 22% of the time? No. No. I really need to disabuse you of this notion. Disabusion? God, that's a word and a half. Thank you very much. It's what I do. There is no. There is no reading of the phrase 20% chance of rain. That involves 20% of the time. Because what time scale would you be deploying at this point, Elaine? 20% of an hour, 20% of a day, 20% of the year, 20% of eternity. What would it be? 20% of. No, it's like hourly. If you look at forecasts. They say, no, it's not. It's not. It's not. It's definitely not. So I get a round of applause for that. Actually. Qualification is common sense. But I will add Elaine. Elaine can have the extra question, which is how do they work out? How do you know? What is it? I mean, how do you know there's a 20% chance of rain? What's that all about? 1216 is the time mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Okay, so it's possible that Elaine and me are the only people in the world who didn't know what 20% chance of rain was. And I have to tell you, Keith has set me straight during the break and I said, what are your qualifications? It's the kind of banter we have. And he said, kerry Katona's Twitter account a couple of years ago, but it was later confirmed by the Met office. So the question, what does 20% chance of rain mean? Someone's going to get a round of applause. I still keep mine because it wasn't that there would be rain 20% of the time. So saying no to that, I get that round of applause. But the correct answer bears no resemblance whatsoever to anything that I said. I'm quite happy to acknowledge that. I got a message off a mate saying, you're having an absolute mare here. And I thought, how bad can it be? And then I looked at my Twitter and it's just, yeah, all right, you live and learn. I'll tell you what, though, looking at the switchboard and the number count that ticks over whether you get on air or not, the desire for a little bit of relief that Mister Eow offers at this time from the developing and breaking news was not confined to me, it's fair to say, but I would stress that Sheila Fogarty will be wading straight back into war and ukrainian issues at 01:00 this afternoon. Olivier is in Berfield in Berkshire. Olivier, question or answer? Question, please carry on. So I'd like to know, when you smell the smell, do you leave less of the smell hanging around for others to benefit from? Oh, that's an absolutely brilliant question. So. So some things, obviously, when you smell a rose, keeps on producing smell. Yes. Keeps on emitting stuff. So it's obvious why many people can smell a rose, but if you have a finite amount of aroma emanating from. I was about to say a body, but that would be a slightly unpleasant image, wouldn't it, emanating from, I don't know, a piece of cheese or something, and then you ate the cheese, so there was no more aroma emanating from it, but the aroma lingered. Would every sniff you take, to paraphrase sting, would every sniff you take remove a little bit of the aroma from the. From the atmosphere? Precisely. What made you wonder this? I like the way your brain works. Couldn't possibly comment. No, no. God, yes. It was emanating from a body, wasn't it? 22 minutes after twelve is the time, Olivier. Thank you. I liked. Yeah. So you've got a finite amount of gas in the air or aroma in the air? Do you reduce it every time you smell it? It's molecular. Is it? Is it molecular? I'm not going anywhere scientific after my embarrassment with the 20% of the rain question, but I'll take a round of applause for the sting gag, though, I think. Thank you. 22 minutes after twelve in Swindon. Jules, question or answer? Um. Hello. Hello. Carry on. The thing that you bite into, or people historically bit into during surgery. Well, it's. It's called a bit. You just said bit into, didn't you? Yeah, it's. It's called. Is that why you sound. Is that why you sound quite surprised to be on the radio? That you can't quite believe this needs explaining to a grown. To two grown men. To me and Howard, I kind of thought, well, I could lead into it by saying, well, you know, it's used in horse tack. It's still sort of a specialist bit of equipment for horse tack. And allegedly it's used in fetish clubs. But obviously I couldn't possibly comment on whether that's still current. No. But, yeah, ball gags, however, you're all over that. Is it definitely called a bit in the. In the context of humans biting down on it? I think it is. I don't have a Tardis to go back and actually ask anybody at the time, but I can't imagine it would have been called anything else. And certainly I used to read dictionaries for fun, kid. Me too. And, you know, started aardvark. Work your way through to zygote and see what comes up in the middle. And. And bit is a bit. A bit is a bit is a bit. You bit. The bit. It's just something that is bitten that, you know, that isn't eaten. It's the. You bite but don't eat. I think biting the bullet has a purpose here because that would be. You'd use a bullet as a bit in the. If you were in the trenches or something and you needed to, you might bite the. Down on the bullet. You used to have to bite the old cartridges. You see it in film sometimes. That's right. To prime them before you can put them in. No, I think you're right and I'm wrong on that. Stick it in. Yeah. You've got that. You've got the double there. Qualifications, Jules, reading dictionaries a lot as a kid. That's the perfect qualification. Thank you, mate. While riding horses. 24 minutes after twelve, Brad's in Durham. Brad, question or answer to answer. James. Carry on, Brad, it's an answer to the. Where a baby is born and what happens to their nationality if they're born mid passage. Oh, yeah, go on. I like this one. So I want to caveat this. So you'll probably pick me the bit and they'll probably be a stewards inquiry, but we don't say that. I know, I know. I've been really nervous as I've been really coming on and hold. I don't know. He's just going to turn me a new one here, but we'll give it a go. Here we go. Right. So there's a lot of if, buts and maybes, and there's really three answers. One is you could. The parents can choose the nationality of the registration of the ship or aircraft, because this also applies to airspace, the airspace or territorial water of where the ship or aircraft was at the time of birth. Okay. Or the nationality of the parents, provided the country where the parents are citizens of allow dual nationalship. Dual nationality ship. Sorry. So you can choose, then? You can. Yeah. There's. I don't know, somebody probably be around to a little bit better. There is an international agreement, or there's something internationally recognized that allows somebody to be born recognized by some state. So nobody can be born without a nationality. Hmm. And there we go. I like it. Qualifications. This was previous research from a documentary. I think it was one of these airline documentaries where an ambulance had to meet a plane when a woman had given birth on board an aircraft. And I was like, well, what nationality is the baby going to be? So my answer is purely from previous research from about three or four years ago. That's the best answer. I can't think of any better qualifications. So where the ship departed from or where it's registered? Either or you can choose the department country of where you've came from, because if you're born in a country, you're entitled to nationality of that country. So it makes sense that if you're born in transit from that country or under the flag of that country, which. That's the phrase I should have got, isn't it? Under the flag of that country, you'd be entitled to that, but it wouldn't supersede your parents nationality. Unless your parents came from a country where you weren't allowed dual nationality, in which case you'd have to choose one or the other. Yeah. I love it. There's really three or four options. Yeah. Palaver. Have a round of applause. Cheers. Lovely stuff. That is Olivier. No, Olivier answered the question about. Oh, no, I've got two Oliviers. Oh, Oliver. We had an Oliver and an Olivier. Blimey, it's multicultural, isn't it? This press. So that's Oliver's question answered by Brad. Olivier's question is the one about smells. The one about. Have I got that the wrong way around? Oliver asked about the smells and Olivier asked about the. Oh, are you sure? I don't know. Keith, stop it. Honestly. 27 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Andy's in Tunbridge. Andy, question or answer? Hello, James. How are you? Answer to the weather question. Yes. Yes. So when weather forecasts, we don't rely on a single forecast for a particular location. So forecasting tends to be done really mostly with models these days, but those models are what built in, what's called ensembles. And so for a particular day's forecast, there'll be multiple runs of that forecast using different models. So within your hour window. So let's say it's an hour window on your app, whatever it might be, a three hour window for a few hours, hence, where there's a little bit more uncertainty in the forecast. What that forecast is saying is, within that hour window, there is essentially 20% chance of rainfall happening at the location that is being spoken about based on the number of model runs that are covering for that area. Well, that's. Hang on a minute. That's what I said. Yeah. I mean, it's more of an impact. But everyone else said, including Keith, said, that it's 20% of the area for which the forecast is being made that is going to have rain. No, it's not. So Kerry Katona's Twitter feed was wrong, probably. Well, I don't agree with that. Well, hang on. Well, we should establish what your qualifications are because you're going to struggle to have better qualifications than Keith on this. What are your qualifications, Andy? Flood warning duty officer of the environment agency. Yeah. Well, that is. Yeah. It's also sort of contributed before in an expert fashion, so. Or something else. That's probability of rainfall. We don't, and we do talk about area coverage, but that's not what that's saying because your app is already got that location kind of built into what you're talking about, so you'd be amazed how many people thought that it was a 20% chance of 20. 20% of the area covered would get rained on. Everyone being, well, I don't know, London. What's the word, the forecast for London? 20% chance of rain. Which means you could put Walthamstow into your app. Or you could put barking. Or you could put Clapham. I think I dine with Andy on that. It's probability of that rainfall occurring. I'm with you on this one, mate, and indeed with me, but you've made it sound a lot more academic and qualified than I did, so the round of applause is yours. Thank you very much. Thank you, Andy. Stay safe. It's 12:30 and Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC, it's 1234. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where the mystery act continues. Why does red wine come in green bottles? Do any other mammals suffer from morning sickness? Do spiders keep several webs on the go at the same time or more than one web at the same time? And when you smell something, if there is a finite amount of aroma or gas in the atmosphere, when you smell it, does the total amount diminish? I love that question. I presume it does. But then someone said, if you hear something, does that make it quieter for someone else to. That's just stupid, because that's not molecular. This is molecular, man. At least I think it is, although I'm probably using that word incorrectly. A lot of people picking up on the Dean Dorries moving in the space of a month from describing the BBC as something that was out of control and must be brought to heel and have its funding model broken to bursting into tears, talking about how brilliant the BBC journalists are. But I don't know. I suppose the other tv story of the morning is neighbors now is finished. Neighbours is going to be. No one's watched neighbors for 20 years. Don't me on this, but I always used to be able to tell when I was much younger than I am now, the strength of my hangover. In my student days, if I cried at neighbours, crying at neighbors, there'd be like one little emotional moment, like Bouncer would get lost or something like that, or Joe Mangler do something nice for his mum or Charlene, take Scott back again or something. But whatever the emotional pivot was in that day's episode of neighbors, I would, I would. If I was incredibly hungover, I would burst into tears. 1235 is the time. And just on a completely different subject, Nadine Dorry seemed very close to bursting into tears in the House of Commons earlier today while talking about the same BBC that she was very keen to butcher not long ago. Martin is in Sheffield to steer us back to mystery. Martin, what would you like to say hi, James. Question or answer? Question or answer? Question or answer? Question. It's a question. Carry on. I'm just wondering why when we see politicians on tv business in hospitals, they always have the sleeve rolled up until they're just about to get stuck in. And furthermore, the tie. The tie is tucked into the shirt. Yes. They're not going to be operating heavy machinery, are they? No. Or indeed on people. Heavy or light, I don't think. Exactly. When my father in law were recently in hospital, when the consultant came round, he was in standard jacket and tie. Yes. I mean, is it true? I just got it. I mean, do all politicians in hospital. I mean, I've noticed it, but I don't know if it's. Obviously. I noticed this during COVID Yeah. Every other week there. One health secretary or another, or bozo. Were, you know, in hospitals, always church leaders old up. We might have a spad listening. Or a former politician there might be. Or a doctor. There might be a medical reason for. You wouldn't want to get blood on your tie, would you? Or you wouldn't think they'd. You wouldn't think that they'd. They'd be close enough. Close enough to the action to get bodily fluids on their cross infection. It's as though some Spad, as you say, has come up with the. This is the look for this setting. Yeah, all right. I bet. There is actually a very unamusing medical answer to this question. Consultants don't follow it if there is. Are you sure they don't? Well, the consultant I came across, I forgot his name at Northern General Hospital in Sheffield. He just had his, you know, going about his business in his jacket and tie. But he's not running around several different departments of the hospital, is he? He's only in his own bit. Fair comment. That might be it. We might have stumbled across an answer that. Let's find out. Is everything all right? Did you have a good experience in hospital? Is everything okay? He's an old guy. He'd fallen broken. Oh, it was your dad, you said. Sorry, I thought. Yeah. There we go. As ever, the NHS. Absolutely brilliant. God bless them. Thank you, mate. We shall try and get you an answer to that. Why do they do it? Because I don't have to. But then I'm only going to visit one person if I'm in a hospital, or indeed I'm a patient. David's in. What for, David? Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, David. And it's in regards to the gentleman who phoned up on saying about getting your leg chopped off and then what you're bite down onto. And he was right when he said a bit. But actually, in hospital, we would definitely refer to it as a mouth gag. Would you? And yes, yes, that's just a simple way. It's a lot easier saying mouth gag. So you still use them even though you've got problem, even though you've got drugs and stuff? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, it depends on what type of surgery you're having and things like that. But you also started. He, he started to say it sounded like a word and he was using the word g. And I'm just wondering whether he got confused with a commonly used airway that we use, called a goodell airway, which is just a very simple device that you slip into the mouth, which prevents patients from biting down on their tongue, but it also allows them to breathe. And quite often when you're in recovery post anaesthetic, people are waking up and they've got something in my mouth, you know, I'm biting down on it. You pull it out, the hearing is the first thing to return. They might hear the word gedalia away. Goodal was an anesthetist out of the 19 hundreds, he developed this airway in the USA. It is now stamped across any medical setting. It's such a simple device and it is the one thing that could actually save your life. Simply holds the tongue forward and allows the airway to remain open while you can get on and do other bits and pieces. So that's just a bit more bonus information. We'll call it bonus information. What are your qualifications? I think I can guess, yeah. I'm a registered, registered nurse, but my specialty is anaesthetics and recovery and I've just recently retired from that. So a round of applause for David. Thank you very much indeed. Enjoy your retirement. We'll be spending a lot more time with each other now that your retirement. It's 1240 is the time. Scott's in Bristol. Scott, question or answer? Hey, James, I've got an answer for you. Carry on. Scott, the wine, why is it stored in glass? I know the guy says, dark glass, dark glass. Why is it in dark glass? Well, it's not actually what the sort of shade of the glass is, because I work in a bottle shop and I'm currently looking at an australian sparkling red. And it's in a clear bottle. It's. More wine is stored in glass bottles because it ages better. And if you are, I know you're right and I'm not but the question specifically was, why is red wine stored in green bottles? It's not always in green bottles. We've got clear glass bottles here, darker shades of bottles. It's more. The question isn't. I'm sounding mean now, but the question isn't, why do we store it in glass? Because it's better for the wine if you're looking to age it, which most? Well, red wine. But that's not the question. The question isn't why do we store wine in glass? That is. I mean, someone might ring in and ask that, in which case we'll call you back. But I think the answer is oxidization. I think red wine in particular will oxidize quicker if it's in clear glass. If the light gets into the clear glass, there'll be a chemical reaction that is prevented by it being in dark glass, I think. But you sound skeptical. Yeah, no, I do agree with you. Because if you're looking to drink wine, sort of, in the next few months, you'll normally go in cartons, bags, cans, sometimes even plastic bottles. Just because it's lighter. Exactly. Exactly. I mean, if you're going to neck it tonight, you don't need to worry about oxidization or if it's not being transported very far. I'm going to give you a round of applause for being a top bloke. Thank you. Good job that I managed to keep things friendly because it wasn't the question that was originally asked. Thank you, Scott. That's lovely. It works in a wine shop, so I can comfortably say I love your work as well, mate. Long, long way, long way. Continue. More power to your elbow. Nixon Shepperton. Nick, question or answer? Hi. Hello, there. I've got a question for you. All right. Why is it shouting? Why are you shouting? Sorry, sorry, sorry. I've had problems with this phone before. I'm really sorry. Don't worry. Why is it when you Yawn, you kind of, like, temporarily lose your hearing? Pardon? I was listening to Nick Ferrari this morning. I just got up. You temporarily lost your hearing? What a blessing. I was still on the first mug of coffee. Yes. And I yawned. And for about the duration of the yawn. Yes. I lost about 75% of my hearing. Well, I think it might be obvious, Nick. No, no, go on. Well, if you think of your ear tubes, what's the correct phrase? Your ear canals. Think of your ear canals as a straw. Right. And then think of the. Now you're having a drink through the straw, and when you squeeze the straw, you get less fluid through the straw. So when you yawn, you tighten your ear canals and they become narrower, which means that less sound gets through them. That's a feasible. Feasible? Feasible is gold standard, man. It's gotta be the right. What else could it be? Okay, I'll take that. But if you want to put it on the board. Well, all right, then. On this occasion, as. Seeing as it's you, I will. But if that's not. Thank you, Nick. That's not the future. Nick, could you do me a favor? Don't go around telling people that you yawn while listening to Nick's show. All right? Oh, no, no. It was only because I just got up. Yeah, exactly that. Quite right, too. Quite right, too. Thank you, Nick. Lovely stuff. So why do you lose your hearing when you yawn? I know what you're thinking, but Nick wants it on the board. Also. I'm doing that thing, the smugger I get, the more likely it becomes that someone rings in and absolutely tugs the rug from under my feet. Lose your hearing when you yawn? Zero. 345-606-0973 but rolling your sleeves up in hospital. Diminishing smell every time you sniff it. Spiders. Morning sickness and kind of done the red wine. But you are welcome to add to that question. Quarter to one is the answer. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1248 is the time. Mystery act continues. Neil's in Doncaster. Neil, question or answer? Hi, James. It's an answer. Carry on. Hi. Hi. It's about why you see politicians in hospitals with their sleeves rolled up. Yeah, it's a. When I worked in the NHS, it was just coming in. And that's nearly 20 years ago in the trust I worked in. It's a policy called bare below elbow. There we go. So it's everywhere. It's not just politicians. Well, it's. It doesn't apply to anyone who's likely to have physical contact with a patient. Right. It means that it's better the hands and the lower arms between patients. Say that last bit again. Your line went down. Sorry. It means that basically, anyone who's going to have physical. It's very easy for them to wash their hands in between patients and the lower arms. Okay. It's an infection control measure, basically. Absolutely. So would the consultant. Is it likely that Martin remembered correctly and if the consultant who looked after his dad didn't have his sleeves rolled up, a consultant will probably be talking to you rather than physically examining you, not getting his hands dirty? Yeah, exactly. My mum worked in the NHS and I remember her making scathing comments about Jeremy Hunt appearing on the telly, not BBE. Oh, he said he hadn't rolled his flipping. Trust Jeremy Hunt to get it wrong. Turning up for a photo opportunity and forgetting to roll his sleeves up. I love that. Qualifications. Neil, I know you've said already, I've spent several years working in the NHS. That'll do nicely. Thank you for it. Have a round of applause. Thank you. No, thank you. Infection control is the answer. Ten to one is the time, not the answer. A few of you noticed my deliberate mistake earlier when I said, quarter to one is the answer. And then I thought I'd be clever and come back from the break and say, if quarter to one is the answer, what's the question? And then I'd realize the question would obviously be, what's the time? If quarter to one is the answer, what's the question? What's the time? Sorry, it's amusing me. Anyway, Daniel's in Mill Hill. Daniel, question, answer, answer. James. Carry on, Daniel. The answer to glass coloured glass for wine. Yes. So it's nothing really to do with oxidation or aging the wine, really. There's a phenomenon called light strike, which is uv light, or a particular frequency of light that actually degrades part of the molecules in the wine, changing them to sulfides. And it can make the wine rather unpleasant. Slightly eggy, slightly cabbagey. So wine in clear glass bottles is always a bad idea, which is why there's a bit of a talk amongst the white wine trade with rose, because it can get ruined quite quickly. Is that right? But white wine doesn't get affected like that. Any wine at all? Champagne, red, white, the color of the wine, is irrelevant. You've got pretty much very similar sulfur compounds in the wine. The uv light reacts with that, degrades it basically destroys the flavors of wine, ruining the freshness. So why does it even exist? Why does it even exist, then? Because so much wine is produced to be drunk immediately or. No, it's nothing to do with the age, it's. It. Why does. Why does the clear glass exist? Is that what you're asking? Yeah. Why does anyone use it? Because people, a lot of people buy wine on. Based on the color and particularly rose, where all those different shades of pink are attractive to us. When you put rose in dark glass, the sales. The sales drop massively. No one wants to buy roses. Yeah. And the really great. The really great rose, or some of them are still kept in dark glass. You can buy some roses, but very, very few. And if you look at the very fancy champagne called Cristel. Yes. It comes in clear glass with a yellow cellophane over it for the same reason. It only lets the yellow light through, which doesn't do the wine any harm, thus preserving it. Well, I never. It's a filter. What's that? What's the one I. What's the fancy one? I judge. It's not that fancy. About 20 quid a bottle, is it? Whispering angel? Uh, yeah. I mean, that's the one that the marketing and the brand of that is. It's a phenomenon. How. Well, that's not great wine, though, is it? Well, I shouldn't say that. No, I crank it. Well, I. It's not my fault. I should just take. But. Yeah, but that's in a clear. I've only ever rung you once before, and that was about the paranoia of hangovers. So this is. This is the only topic I really know. You could. You gotta be careful with hangovers. You could end up bursting into tears in the House of Commons if you're not careful. I don't know where that came from. Round of applause for Daniel. Oh, hang on. Qualifications? Wine trade. I worked in the wine trade for 20 years. There you go. Round of applause for Daniel. Thank you. Thank you. 1252 is the time. Jay's in Tumbridge. Jay, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. Hello. A big fan of your show. Thank you. Thank you. Answer, please. Carry on. What have you got? So, about the hearing sensitivity being down when somebody yawns? Yes. There is a tiny muscle in the middle ear behind the eardrum, which actually contracts when somebody yawns, temporarily decreasing the hearing sensitivity. This is what happens when you're exposed to loud sounds. So your ear has a protective mechanism to have those muscles to contract when there are loud sounds around us. The other way to contract one of those muscles is by yawning, and therefore your hearing is temporarily reduced. So it's not the tube that is constricted, it's the. I'm afraid that's completely. Well, I know. Wrong. Thank you for your polite. Your kind treatment of my ignorance. What are your qualifications, James? So, I'm an audiologist, James, and congratulations for, uh, your show, but also today's world hearing day, so I'm really delighted to be. Oh, is it really? That's fantastic. Well, and there you go, Jay, the audiologist, reminding us that it's. I think it's World Book Day as well. It's almost like they didn't want each other to get away with it, the people, you know, the audio. The audiobooks and the actual books having a pitch. Round of applause for Jay. What a lovely answer. Thank you, Jay. Thank you. Absolutely lovely to speak to you as well. Thank you for the kind words. Lewis is in ealing. Lewis, question or answer? Answer. James riders, carry on. You're stepping out of your normal fields of expertise on this one, are you? A little bit, yeah. Well, no. Well, no, I used to work in. Well, I'll save up for the qualification. But with spiders, usually it's one spider, one web. They're usually solitary animals, so they won't. And british webs for british spiders as well, I hope. Precisely. And so they won't. They won't take over another web because. One key reasons is that they're usually laced with pheromones from a particular spider, so they wouldn't take over. But there are some species that are communal and will build giant webs together, but they're cooperating. But you never get an individual spider running several webs, which is Jill's original question, thinking, you know, I'll have one for that. Like a weekend web, if you like. Or a seaside web. Qualifications. Here we go. I used to work in an aquarium with tarantulas and other spiders and I saw a documentary by Sir David Ashenberg about it. Did I know that already? The bit about the aquarium. Well, I answered the question about. You worked in pharmaceuticals as well, or. I currently work in pharmaceuticals. That's what I thought. Yeah. I knew I wasn't going mad. So you did. Previous teenager. You're a very. You're a man of many talents, Lewis. You have many arrows in your quiver, don't you? This is astonishing work. Where was the aquarium? In London or in Brighton or perhaps in Great Yarmouth? It was in Emsworth. Where? Emsworth. The Ensworth Aquarium. Yeah. It's not one of the massive aquariums, is it? On the. On the little aquarium, privately run one that, like. Lots of, like geckos and scorpions and fish and other animals and I have to look after them occasionally. Rehouse tarantulas. And you got to get rid of all the web because it will stress out a different one. The new. The new tarantula comes in and gets freaked out by the pheromones left by the old tarantula. It would just think there's another tarantula there, so we'll get all very territorial. So I like it a lot. Have a round of applause, Lewis. Covering a lot of ground there. Thank you. So politics, pharmaceuticals and spiders. Lewis is our go to man Daniels in Warminster. Daniel. Question or answer? Answer. Well, stewards inquiry, really, about the nationality question. Oh, go on, then. Go on, then. So, we're all quite aware of the fact that it's generally in life there's death and taxes. So the nationality question is really a question about two things. Residency and domicile. Okay? Domicile. Residency. You can get a passport, you can come to another country and they can give you a residency, but your actual nationality is based on your domicile. So in the UK, if you are born, you generally take the. You will take the nationality of your. Your father if he's alive. But what if you're born on a boat? Yes, but that doesn't change whether you have parents, right? No. Yeah. So if you're born. I'm confident that last statement was true. If you are born. If you are born. I don't want any quibbling. Don't call in. I know that these are days of, you know, there's people boasting about me, skeptical about everything, but you definitely still need parents if you're going to be born on a boat. Exactly. So if your parents. If your parents are married, then you take the domicile of your father. Okay. If your father is not alive, then you'll take the domicile of your mother. Or if you're not married, you will take the domicile of your mother. It does get a little bit more complicated as the child get older because obviously there are changes that can be done. That's the general answer. So you wouldn't have any claim to Donovan? Well, you can have an american passport if you're born in America, though, can't you? Regardless. Yeah, but that's more residency. I think that's what he was asking about, but I'm glad for the clarification. I want to squeeze in one more call, so I'll just ask you quickly what your qualifications are for this one. I'm a visor. You're a water watcher, a financial adviser. Oh, I see. And that is relevant because of the fiscal ramifications of residency and citizenship. Round of applause for Daniel. Professor Hal is here. Can you do it in 30 seconds? Ok, I'll give it a try. As you wisely pointed out, the smell question, yes. As you wisely pointed out, is molecular. The molecules in the air which cause smell lock into little olfactory receptors in your nose while they're locked into your nose. They, of course, can't be locking into anyone else's, so there will be a marginal decrease in the smell, but they get washed out quite quickly. Quickly, so they can be recirculated. So my olfactory molecular emissions could end up in your schnozzle? Absolutely, yes. If you breathe out, someone else breathes it in. You live and learn. That's how viruses spread. It is qualifications. I get paid to do my hobby, which is to be professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And we love you for it. All right, back to the deep end, I suspect, after an hour of light relief, which, I don't know about you, but I needed it. We will be back tomorrow morning from ten, but up next, it's Sheila folk.