Why do some people sneeze so violently?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery Hour with James O'Brien. Hello. Three minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. I got distracted there by the rousing chorus in the background, which is a little unprofessional of me, given that it's been there at this point on Thursdays for the best part of a decade. I am about to launch a radio entertainment that is like no other. It reaches parts that no other radio program has ever reached, and it comes with a possible prize for you as well, of which more details later. In short, mystery Hour offers you an opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere on your radio dial. You have a mystery, a question, a conundrum bubbling away in the back of your brain. You know there must be a solution, an answer, a resolution, but you're dashed if you know what it is. Well, somebody else will ring in with the question, zero 345-606-0973 and wait for someone else to ring in with the answer on. Well, let's solve that mystery now. Zero 345-606-0973 it is. You know what the time is. I told you a minute ago. So the prize is a mystery hour board game, an absolutely mint bit of kit that could be yours simply in return for being my favourite contributor of the week. And that's it. The management's decision is final. You can find the full terms and conditions at LBC dot co dot UK if you want to get your hands on one, but you're not fortunate enough to be my favorite contributor of the week, then Mysteryhour co UK is the place to go. If Joyce Sandler is listening, then I have a special message for Joy Sandler. Do you remember that when we were kids? Do you remember when they'd interrupt the radio sometimes to tell, like, very. I don't know, someone must have been a family emergency or something like that. But very occasionally you'd get a personal message put out on the radio so that someone would know to make their way to a hospital or something. This is nothing like that. This is very happy and. And cheerful for Joy because she sent me a lovely letter about her difficulties in a getting hold of the mystery hour board game and b getting through because she describes herself as having a speech impediment. So she's phone phobic. So I am going to break the habit of a lifetime breaking three habits of a lifetime today on Mister, and I'm going to ask your question, Joy. Not immediately. I'm going to put it up there a little later. But I'm also going to send you a free copy of the mystery, our board game, because your letter cheered me up so much. I can't. I was going to let you win. You were going to be my favourite contributor of the week. But I'm worried about the terms and conditions that you can find at LBC dot co dot UK. I suspect that if I'd ever read them, it would contain some sort of instruction regarding who can and can't win it. And I don't think you can win it unless you've rung in. I know you can't win it if you've rung in from overseas, for example. But Joy, if you're listening, let Joy be unconfined. There is a free mystery ad board game its way to you. Toot sweet. Five minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery is upon us. I will do Dorry's watch at some point. And I will also, I think, play you this clip, if it's as good as it looks, with the sound off this response of Boris Johnson to the suspension of the politician that he promoted despite knowing all about allegations of various sexual improprieties. We'll have a little listen to that as well. But let us begin. James is in Coatbridge. James, question or answer? Question? James. Carry on. It's on the back of the people not being able to. Not being able to boil eggs. Which was on this morning. Was it? I didn't hear that. Who can't boil an egg? There was a survey that a lot of people don't know how to boil an egg, but it's on the back of that. As a kid growing up and continuing to own kids, we have toast to dip into the eggs, which are called soldiers. Yes. Where did that come from? Why are they called soldiers? I don't. Well, I don't think it's very exciting. Probably not, but I think it's just because they're so straight. Yeah. I don't know. I think it's come up before. I think it's come up before. And that was. I'm not going to take a round of applause because someone might be able to go definitive on it, but think about a toy soldier. Yeah. Yeah. You know, rigid side street. Stan street is a soldier. Absolutely rigid sides. Line them all up on the plate. You've got all your little soldiers in a row. All right. I think that's what it is. Not going to accept it. I'm gonna have. Fair enough. I wouldn't either. But, I mean, I can't see what else it would be, can you? Yeah. That's the beauty of mystery. Out. That's the beauty of mystery. You never know. You never know. No, absolutely. You're on the list. Lovely question. Where was the business? Who said people can't boil eggs? I missed that. I never was in the news. It was in the news today. Quite a high percentage. How can you not boil it? I mean, how to boil an egg, that's been. That's not cooking. That's just knowing what the word boil an egg means. Absolutely. There'll be a survey next that people don't know how to butter bread or something. That'll probably come next. Give them ideas. That'll be there. It'll be. Thank you, James. You're on the list. Why do we call them soldiers? There's neatly sliced toast served with a boiled egg. I like a boiled egg, you know. I really do. It's one of those things every time you have it. Could we do a whole show on this? Not on eggs, on things. Every time you have them, you think, why don't I have that more often? And then you never do have it more often afterwards, either. I'm like that with tomato juice. I like a nice tomato juice, not a bloody Mary. No vodka in it. But with all the gubbins, like the tabasco and the Worcester sauce, maybe a little twist of black pepper, stick of celery, all of that. You have that sometimes at brunch, for example, you say, oh, that's nice. I should have that more often. And you never, do. You never. I'd very much put boiled eggs on that list. What else would you. Don't. No, don't, don't, don't. Don't hijack the jacket potato. Yeah, jacket potato. We should have this more often, shouldn't we? And then you never do. Don't hijack mystery out. All right. I should not have gone off on that tangent. I need my lines and I certainly need my inbox. Beverley's in Sutton Beverly. Question or answer? Hello. Hello. It's a question. Carry on. So I was thinking, there's many polluted cities in the world. Yes. And we get sand coming over from the sahara. We do. So how far does pollution travel? That's the question. And then I was thinking, because will it make a difference what we do here if it comes over from other countries? Well, I mean, we had acid rain, didn't we? Yes. Do you remember that and that volcano thing? No, I don't mean because I'm thinking about pollution. Not sand. So acid rain was pollution, so you'd get the chemicals going into the clouds and then coming down in other countries as dangerous. So, I mean, it could go where air could go, couldn't it, really? I mean, I don't how far then you could say, how far do clouds travel? Yeah. So that's the key, isn't it? I like it. I mean, I'm going to go out on a limb here, Beverly, and say that you don't spend a lot of your time smoking weed and contemplating the great mysteries of the universe. But if you did, I think, how far can clouds travel? Might have been one of the questions that popped up. How far, man? How far can clouds? Don't smoke weed. But I was diagnosed with pollution asthma. You think, oh, crikey, that's fine. And then we could go into the thing of the ules, is it worth doing? Because if it's coming over from India or, you know. Oh, I see. Well, yeah, I mean, I don't think that if we did stop into it. And that's not on drugs. No, no. But it is a bit psychedelic, isn't it? I shall. Well, I don't. I mean, it can probably travel miles, but if we got rid of all pollution in London, the stuff that would still come here from wherever else in the world would not be enough to give you pollution. Asthma. Yes. It'd be more diluted. It would be considerably more diluted. But I am now interested in the question of how far can pollution travel and how would you know, though? That's the other question. You can't go, oh, tastes a bit chinese, that, you know, that kind of pollution over there. We'll find out for you. And what have you got now? Have you got an inhaler? Yes, because that's where it comes from, you know, it's a very personal mission for Siddiquan. I've talked to about him a lot, and it's not politics, this, it's personal. He just does believe the air needs to be cleaner because he got late on set. Asthma as well. Exactly. I think I'm the only one out of all my friends that agree with it. Well, there it is. Because you're the one living with the consequences of what happens if we don't do it. You should probably get some better friends there, Beverly. It's eleven minutes after twelve. Oliver's on the Wirral. Oliver, question or answer? Oh, hello. A question, please. Yes. Why do dogs love balls? And does it have anything to do with Wimbledon and the ashes and why humans love balls? Do you mean. I mean, do you mean. I've only got a lady dog, but do you mean their own balls? Well, I have a lady dog, too. But you don't mean their own balls, because that's a fairly obvious. I mean, tennis balls. In the case of my lady dog, she can literally stare at a tennis ball and desire it. It's not the same with sticks. No. If you throw her a stick, she'll pick it up and carry it around and then discard it, whatever. But with it, with a. With a. With a ball, she'll look at it as if it's the absolute. But life. But it's prey, isn't it? Is it not. Is it not in place of prey? Well, I think that might be part of the answer. There's nothing in the wild that resembles a stick. So stick is play, ball is prey. There's nothing in the wild that resembles tennis ball. Yes, there is. A little bird is like a tennis ball or a little roadblock. Really? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, to a dog, more or less perfectly round, neon threaded in copper, I don't think they see in the same way that we see. So I don't know. I think they're mostly going to be black and white, but it's the speed, it's the movement. It's like a cat can be wrapped by a. By a light. You can shine a torch around the room and a cat will chase it, because it's the evolutionary predator that is being activated. Admittedly, she does like me practicing my serve across the garden, and it's the thwack that gets her there. But I still say there's something about the ball, and I wonder if that doggy thing about the ball has anything to do with the human eating about tennis. The ashes. So our fascination. People play with their feet. You got kidderminster people, they play that, don't they? Yes, they do. So you mean, does our fascination with ball games in any way emulate, or vice versa, the animals fascination with balls? Is it something primal? It might be actually chasing stuff down that moves quick is an evolutionary attribute, isn't it, for humans and for dogs? I shall find out. Why do dogs love bulls? Not their own, but the ones that they play, that doesn't help, does it? But you know what? We know what Oliver means. All dogs. Thank you, Oliver. Speaking of the Midlands, Russ is in seven Stoke in Worcester. Where's that? Where's seven Stoke? It's just south of Worcester, James. Oh, no. Yeah. Where? About what? South of Worcester? Near where? Near Kempsey. Okay, so you've got Kemsey, then you've got Severn Stoke, and then you've got upton and Severn. Oh, right, yeah. Lovely. Okay, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. I was wondering if there were any animals that purely ate for pleasure rather than just survival. Well, I mean, most of them will eat more than they need to eat. Yeah, but do they eat just for enjoyment? How would you tell? How would you know? Do we, the humans. Well, we do, yeah. We go to restaurants, don't we? Yeah, but I mean, animals like some things more than others. I just want to pin down what the question is. I mean, animals like some things more than others, don't they? We've got quite snobby cats who go turn their nose up at some of the food we serve them. So that is eating as well. Yeah, but that's not necessarily. Well, okay, I suppose if they're eating more than they need, then they're eating to store fat, aren't they? Usually for winter or something like that. I just wondered if there's any. Any animals that eat a truffle pig. I don't know if you're going to be sniffing out truffles. Presumably it's because they too obs. Truffle pig. They must be so delicious. Which suddenly makes me realize for the first time how cruel that is. Because you never let them eat them. Presumably. Presumably. I'll put it on the question. I've got it on the board. I don't know what. I don't know how you'd know. I mean, apart from the things we've just covered, like the fact that if you put some fresh salmon next to some dry cat food, the cat's probably going to prefer the fresh salmon. That's eating for pleasure, isn't it? Isn't it? Isn't it? I don't know. Well, they might eat that first and then eat the. Eat the cat food after. I don't know. All right, you're on. I'll see how we get on with it. Thank you. It is, gosh, 1216 already. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It is 18 minutes after twelve. Mystery out is upon us. Soldiers. Why do we call them soldiers? How far can pollution travel? Why do dogs love bulls so much? And do any animals eat for pleasure? Let's not have any more animal questions, all right? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Let's go to Crawley Stuart's in. Crawley Stuart, question or answer? Sorry, carry on. It's Humpty Dumpty. It's not soldiers. It's not. This can't be counted on the wall. All the king's horses and all the king's men. Yeah, exactly. Together again. Yeah. They couldn't put them in my stories of my youth and with my grandchildren. Stories depicted by an egg. No, the stop bred soldiers sitting on horses. But. But the same token, I think you just speculate. You just speculate. Order. No, I don't think so, because I've actually got pictures in some of my grandchildren's, uh, rhyme books that we've an egg there. So although they've not got the soldiers, I'm kind of do the animals. Of course they've not got the soldiers, have they? They've not got the soldiers. But through the annals of time, I'm sure that in order to get your young children to eat an egg without the soldiers and dipped him in the egg and obviously that then connected the egg to the story and it made the children eat the soldiers. But no, no, the egg yolk could be the blood, but it's not. Maybe. Ridiculous. No one pretends that an egg is a sort of dead children's character. What are you doing to your children? I thought it was a great. No, I'm sure of this. Come and eat this break. Let's do a lovely little song, let's do a lovely nursery rhyme together and then let's eat its brains. What's wrong with you, Stuart? Yeah, but there's lots of horrible. Horribleness. It's half on and parfen. I'll blow your door. That's. That's a horrible story. But the children love it. But you don't then say, let's all eat the pigs, do you? There's not soldiers. It's because they're all straight. Every time I say this, I'm putting my hands down by my side. I look. I look a bit weird. But it's because they're just dead straight, isn't it? It's got nothing to do with Humpty Dumpty. Yeah, but then they dip their heads in the yoke and the yolks. The blood. Stop with it. Stop it. You're frightening children. They're listening. They're never going to eat a boiled egg again, are they? Dipping your head in the blood. Oh, I put money. That. That's the answer. Well, I'll take the money off you. In that case, I'll send someone around later. That's absolutely ridiculous. I'm not having that at all. 21 minutes after twelve, we should do that more, actually put wrong answers on that. Used to be quite a big part of mystery. The board game kind of depends on it, actually. But I don't know why we stopped doing it. Probably because I got so bossy and insisted on putting correct answers through. Dorothy is in Westwood. Ho. Exclamation mark. Dorothy. Question or answer? It's a question. And I just have to say, I don't think I can ever look at boiled eggs the same way you. No, please don't say that. See, Stuart, what you've done now. What you've done. Why did you do it? Why did he do it? Carry on. It's about sneezing. Yes. You know. You know, everybody, you make a noise when you sneeze, but what causes some people to almost shriek when they sneeze? And it makes other people jump? And I'm wondering, is it physiological? Is it psychological? That's a really good question. Yeah. Well, I work from home, and my neighbor lady does this, and she sneezes, and it's made me jump. And one time I got a little bit fed up and I imitated her, and I think she heard me. I think I've gotten a hairy eyeball ever since. Yes. No, good for you. I think that this. I think it's a little bit performative. You think? Yeah, because I do it, and I'm a terrible show off, as you probably haven't gathered from listening to this program. Well, I mean, I'm reaching the stage in marriage now, Dorothy, where there's not a lot that my wife and I do that annoys each other to shave off each other's rough edges over the years. But the way I sneeze annoys all three of my fellow family members because it makes them jump, you see? And if I remember in time before sneezing, which is tricky, because it's a reflex, obviously. So there's not a great deal. Well, those ones you can. Those ones I can take care of, but the ones that kind of take me a little bit by surprise, I sneeze like an idiot. I'm not going to lie to you. But if I remember in time, I can do a much, much more muted sneeze on public transport. I don't sneeze like an idiot. So I bet your neighbor on a bus would not sneeze like she does in the privacy of her own home without realizing that you're next door with a glass to the wall. I don't need a glass to the wall. You can hear it down the block. I know. So I think it's showing. I'll leave it on the board, because if there is some sort of psychological explanation, but I'm pretty confident that nobody who sneezes in a very ostentatious fashion has to. Okay. Do you see what I mean? Yeah. Well. Well, unless the need for attention is. Maybe not even the need for attention, there's some sort of desire to just make a lot, make a loud noise. But you can do it if you have to. You can even hold your nose and just do like that, can't you? Well, that's not so good for you, is it? No. Well, don't hold your nose, then. But you can. You can do a muted sneeze and yet, you know, in the wild, unscrutinized, I will sneeze at record breaking levels. But I think probably just some form of showing off. We shall find out. We shall find out. Thank you, Dorothy. It's a lovely question. 24 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Simon's in crawley. Simon, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Carry on. Why do some foods make you feel sick? Not in the repulsive, didn't like it way, but. For example, the weekend I was at a high street coffee shop, had a slice of cheesecake and I'm normally pretty good at getting through the whole thing, but I got about halfway through this one, it felt absolutely nauseous. There's two rich. Yeah, but what is it? It wasn't off or. It wasn't off or anything like that. No, no. It was all. But what is it about the rich? We say it's too rich. But what does that mean? I like. Is there an active ingredient in the. I like that question. I mean, it's. What had you done before? What, if you don't mind me asking? I was dragged around a few local supermarkets and. Had you had a coffee as well? Did you have a coffee with it? I had a coffee, yeah. A long coffee or a short coffee? It was cappuccino. Okay, so a longish coffee. So there's a lot of dairy there. You've got the cappuccino and then you've got the cheesecake. There's a lot of dairy there, isn't there? You normally suggest you normally have a cheesecake. Possibly in a more dinner based scenario where you might have a wine or a glass of water with you rather than a milky drink. Maybe, maybe. But also there are some chocolate brands. I can make my way through quite a big bar of normal chocolate. But then there's other brands that you can only get out half way. Yeah, that's it. I didn't want to say the name. No, you can say the name. Galaxy. Galaxy is richer than dairy milk, isn't it? Yeah. Do you know what you can get now? Go on. Galaxy biscuits. No, can you? I got them in Morrison's last week. I did a whole packet in front of the tennis yesterday. They are absolutely delicious. So I got. I mean, I'm alright with that. I can do galaxy like it's going out of fashion, but. Well, yeah, I just wonder how much of it is objective and how much of it is subjective. So not so much from person to person, but from context to context. So if you've just eaten a big meal, you're not going to be able to put away anything like as much cheesecake as you would otherwise. But you could probably add your own body weight in watermelon. I'll find out. So when you are rendered nauseous by the richness of the food, what do we mean by richness? What is going on? Yeah, absolutely. That's perfect. I love it. Thank you. Cheers. Simon, did someone else finish the cheesecake or did you leave it hanging? I left it hanging. I couldn't bring myself. I tried. I tried so hard. Oh, that really offends me, man. Cheeky little half a cheesecake somewhere, knocking around Crawley. That's unbelievable. I could never do. I don't think I could do that. I don't think I could leave the table and say, even if I had to sit there. And anyway, 27 after twelve. Nathan's in Portsmouth. Nathan, question or answer? It's a question, James. So I was watching the tennis the day before yesterday. There was a brilliant french guy on called Halley's and he did a serve 132 miles an hour. And I thought, how are they measuring that? Yeah, because a police speed gun is pointed at the car and obviously it bounces off your car and gives the reading because it's coming toward the speed gun. Are you sure? But. Well, that's how a normal speed gun works, I think. Then you've got the other. But then you've got the speed cameras that do it point to point, haven't you? Yeah. So who's measuring? How do you measure that? The second, the split second the ball leaves the racket, it's obviously now leaving at speed toward the opposing court. It lands in the opposing court and within a second or two, next to the scoreboard, it shows you how fast the serve was. Sometimes they do it how fast the winner was. I'm not as baffled by this as you. Go on, then. Well, no, I mean, I think it's quite straightforward, really. You've got. I mean, almost. You could just video it and then really quickly measure the speed of the ball. They got some little man in the audience or something. Yeah. I mean, there'll be someone probably. I don't know. I mean, I don't know, but I don't think it's going to be a kind of oh, my days kind of answer, is what I mean. No, but it will be interesting. It will be interesting. No, it's definitely not like a car. We can all agree on that. A tennis ball has very little in common with a car. It's round. It's got round wheel. Round like a wheel, I suppose. More like a rodent. I will. I put it on the board. Yes. Because we don't know how it's done and we would like to. I would. I would, too. Now you're on. Thank you. Thank you, Nathan. I'll carry on. 29 after twelve. I'm going to put Joy's question on the board now. Halfway through, as promised, Joy wants to know. She says, you know how snowflakes are all different from each other? Is it the same with popcorn? Zero. 345-606-0973 I mean, it probably is, isn't it? Is every piece of popcorn unique? Who on earth is going to be able to answer that? But no matter. Joy's already got herself a mystery out board game for the charm and loveliness of the letter that she sent to me asking that question. So, popcorn, tennis, richness, sneezing, eating balls, pollution, soldiers. They all need answers. Lottie Morley has headlines. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1233 and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We'll probably have a chat tomorrow about these new thingamies. All right. What's it called? Thingamajigs threads. We'll do that. Will we find out what's going on? I mean, it's very galling for someone with 1.1 million followers on Twitter. Carefully cultivated and curated. Following that, I've spent years building up. But it does look as though. It does look as though the genius musk has carked it almost completely. So, rivals springing up with the Facebook fella. Probably the best place to provide a service that will step into the space created by the. By the collapse of Twitter. But I need to find out a little bit more about it. I'm on there. But anyway, I'll give you more details tomorrow, but I know not everybody finds it interesting, so it's a tricky conversation to have, because for some people, it's the only story in town today. Threads, threads, threads. It's so exciting. And for other people, it's like, oh, flipping it. So, anyway, that's my problem, not yours. Luckily, mystery hour is immune to all such considerations. Let's crack on. Jeremy's in Gunnar side Jarrett, which is in Swaledale. Jeremy, question or answer? Hello, James. Yes, I've got a question, but before I do, I phoned a couple of weeks ago or a couple of months ago, and I was hoping to win the board game. Yes. With a question of my borehole. Do you remember your borehole? Yes, we ran out of water from the spring and we had a borehole drilled 60 meters down. Do you remember that one? That was more than two months ago. Was it? Yeah. Oh, well, time flies. It does. It does. But you didn't win. It was a good question. I didn't win. The chap who answered it won. I know that must have stung a bit. It really did. But I just like to thank him if he's listening. So the answer is brilliant. What was the answer? What was the answer again? I can't remember. It was. It was porous rock. How does it know that there's water? There was the question, and the answer was, because the rock is porous, it will find the water. Yeah, I enjoyed that. I'm sorry to hear about the board game, but hey ho. Well, I'm trying again now. I've got another question. All right, then, let's have a go. Fingers crossed, Jeremy. Fingers crossed, mate. Well, fingers crossed. It's to do with inventions or creations. Yeah. I've been listening to a book and it's all about DNA. Right. And I thought the chap who created or discovered DNA was a british chap, I think Crick and Watson, there were two of them. And there's a woman whose name I can't remember, which is kind of the point, because. Oh, right, yes. So it was a group of people. Yes. Now, DNA has been given to the world, really, because all police forces and everyone, you know, in crimp for criminal convictions and whatnot. And also with the Internet. It's like a british person discovered the Internet, didn't he? Created the Internet, and that's gone to everybody throughout the world. Now, do people who do that get any recompense from other countries who take on the idea of, like, for example, DNA? Other countries police forces use it? Or has that chap just given it to the world for the better of the world? Okay, now, I understand your question. I think that the examples aren't helpful because I think Tim Berners Lee could have commoditized the Internet if he'd wanted to. I think. I mean, he may have been overtaken by events or rivals or what have you, but I think he could have commoditize the Internet if he'd wanted to. But DNA, once it's discovered, I don't know how you would own it. All that work they've put into it and then. Yeah, but they're scientists, so they mean the thrill of discovery. Yes, but someone's going to pay for that, haven't they? Yeah. I mean, so you're looking for the applications of it. You're thinking of it like a vaccine or something like that, where you can. Yeah, yeah. Like a vaccine. You can slap a. Slap a cotton, slap a thing of me on it. A patent or a Rosalind franklin. Thank you. Rosalind Franklin, known, I think, to her friends as Rosa. That's your DNA person. That's every crick and Watson get all the credit, but Rosalind Franklin apparently did the heavy lifting. All right. Would be Rosalind. Got anything? Rosalind Franklin. That's it. So can you copyright a discovery, is the question. In a way, yes, I suppose it is. Really? Yes. Because if it was, like, a government scientist who created. But how would you pay? Yes. So what would we do every time? Because you're looking for DNA, you're not. You could copyright the stuff you use to discover it, I suppose. Yes. And the way you discover it, I mean, I don't know. Well, I put the question on the board, usually say, that's a very good question. Well done. Well, I mean, it's not my. I don't know if it is. Well, I don't get all touchy. I don't know if it is a very good question. Not as good as the borehole. Oh, really? Well, because I don't. I just. I don't think that. I don't. I don't. I don't see. Usually when the question comes up, you can see the space open up in front of you into which. Which the answer will fit Jeremy. And I'm going to be honest with you, that's not happening at this end of the phone. Right. So they just. So that DNA, what someone's invented or created, but they didn't invent or create DNA, they just discovered it. Well, discovery, then. They've had to put work in to discover it. No one else did. But you can't patent work, can you? Well, you could have got some recompense from it, surely. I don't. That's what I mean. The space. It's like your board game. No, it's not like my board game, exactly. Well, I didn't actually, but pretend that I did. That is. That is a thing that didn't exist until I came along. I didn't discover it, I invented it. No. DNA has always been there. Not to find the DNA, that's the point. It's like Mount Everest. Do you think Mount Everest didn't exist until some nepalese fella stumbled across it? It's not. It's not so scientific. Of blooming DNA and that lump of rock. I'm not having an argument with you about this. DNA was not. It wasn't discovered in the sense that it didn't exist and then it did. It was just explained. It was explained? Yes. I don't know if you can copyright doing that. Surely you can pay to. Can you copyright an explanation? I think so. Can you? No. There you go. We got there in the end. Oh, God. All right, that's fine, then. Round of applause for me. Well, well done, James. The old ball game. Because I know you released a new one, but if you. I haven't. I haven't released it. No, I haven't released a new one yet. I was supposed to have done that, but I've got so busy with the book, I haven't got around to proofreading the questions. In fact, I'd completely forgotten about that until you reminded me, really, the sort of thing I should be doing on air. It's just so unprofessional of me, Jeremy. Thank you, mate. You're in the. You're in the draw. Who knows? Could be your lucky day. I could have got it wrong. They won the Nobel Prize, Jeremy. That was quite a big recompense, actually. True. Yes. Yes. But I'd want money if I think of that. James is in Horsham. James. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. To do with why dogs love balls. Yes. So it's a very individual thing. My dog's not bad about balls. My dog's not mad about balls. Yes. There's lots of different aspects to it. Some of it is prey driven, some of it is breed tendencies. Certain dogs like to hold things in their mouths. Those are the types of dogs. They're generally used for gundog work, and so there's a propensity to just want to hold something and then there will be a preference to the texture of the thing they want to hold. So some dogs like soft things, some dogs are trained to like soft things, and some dogs like to chew on harder things. And so it's a combination of lots of different factors and one of which is quite important is the human factor. Yes. If we take it as a given that dogs love balls and we approach a dog with a ball with that in our mind, that will affect the way that we approach them with the ball. So we'll be like, we have a ball. Isn't this exciting? And they'll be like, I'm excited because you're excited not necessarily because of the ball, but because of the interaction and because you're playing with me and because we're great friends. Aren't we rough? Ruff, ruff. That sort of thing. Yeah. Yeah. So there's motion. It's very important, of course. So there's no parallel with humans enjoying ball games? I don't have enough knowledge on why balls are used in games with humans to be able to. But the things you've described. No, no, I would say no as well. Qualifications? I'm a dog trainer. Lovely stuff. What would be your. I mean, if you've got a yappy dog, like, you know, she thinks she's guarding us and looking after us every time someone walks into the front garden or rings the doorbell. And even now, after all these years, she still yaps. Is there anything you can do about that? The quality of advice I can give you on that is based on a level of information which is limited. So it's going to be difficult with a pinch of salt. But barking is a form of communication, so understanding where the barking is coming from is important. Coming from the dog is the excitement, is it anticipation? When people come into the house, is that a really exciting event? Is it already sociable? Are they anticipating a really fun thing that's about to happen? Yeah, maybe, yeah. And the type of barking will tell you that. So kind of higher pitched barking and more frequent barking will indicate a level of excitement or potentially frustration. So you can't help me really lower? I absolutely can, but probably not in the space that we have to do it right now. All right. Is it not like a one off, kind of worth trying kind of thing? You can try and change the association. So if there's. If there is something that's triggering the barking, then giving them a different thing to do. So currently it's barking. If they are triggered by something, then encouraging them to do something else that is mutually exclusive, so something that they can't do whilst barking. Okay. You can start to change the association to the trigger, but the trigger may not be something that you can pick up, because dogs have different sensory capability. I get the picture. I'll give you a round of applause. Great stuff. Next time you ring in, I'll have more details ready, and a little recording of the dog as well to play you so you can find out what pitch it is. It's coming up to quarter to one. Zach's in Bromley. Is that question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Carry on. So, basically, I work on a lot of construction sites and I work with a lot of irish, uh, builders. You lucky, man. You lucky. Um. So when I'm working in the mornings, um, they tend to say to me quite a lot, uh, top of the morning to ya. I just wanted to know why the Irish say top of the morning. I think I know this. Okay. I think it's a translation. Okay? So I think of top as a synonym for best. So I wish you. I would say in. In Irish, I would say, I wish you the best. Best of the morning. The best morning going. And then that translates when you translate it into English, it just became the top of the morning. So what about top of the afternoon or top of the evening? They don't say that, do they? No, but you. I mean, you start the day, isn't it? It's just sort of, have a great. Have a great day. You never say, have a great afternoon. You say, have a great day. Top of the morning. Fair enough. Top of the morning. Yeah, that's true. That's very true. The best. The best. The best of the morning. Best. It's like, good, you know, the top of the day. The top of the morning. That's how I get the best of the day, I think. Yeah, I want to know. I'd like that. I think I may have looked it up when I was in Ireland, because I'd go a bit weird. I don't know if you've noticed. If someone Irish rings me up, I go a bit weird and I start saying, oh, that's grand. That is. I don't do the accent or anything like that. I probably would have done when I was younger and even weirder, but when I was in Dublin, I caught myself saying it to someone in a hotel at the top of the morning to you, which was stupid, really, because they were polished. But then I think I looked it up to work out where it came from. But I can't. I mean, that doesn't count as a qualification, really, unless I've correctly remembered it. So I'll leave it on the board and someone Irish will ring in to answer it and I'll almost certainly say to them, that's grand. I've always wanted to know that was. You've answered it, I think. Well, I hope I have, but I'm not going to take the round of applause. It's 1246 mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine. Six, nine. Twelve, forty nine is the time. That's a jarring story from Wimbledon that you heard in the news there. Fraser Knight is on the scene for LBC. Fraser, what can you tell us? Well, James, it was just before 10:00 a.m. This morning when police heard about a Land Rover driving into the side of a private school here. Now, this is a prep school for young girls, the youngest at that school, just four years old. And we've since learned that nine people were injured when that happened this morning. Seven of those people, children, we believe, at this school. Now, the emergency service response, you can imagine, was huge. When I arrived here, there were upwards of 30 emergency service vehicles. We had police officers, paramedics, we had the fire service, and a real sense of shock among people around here. It's very small, quiet street that this school is on, and we understand it was the last day of term for these children. So they were outside, it looked like, for some form of an award ceremony. Now, we have heard from the local MP for this area who said that some of those injuries, he understands, may be being treated as critical. And there have been some really worried parents, I have to say, at this court, cuddling each other, really, to come together and to think about exactly what's happened here, but the investigation underway not being treated as terrorism, we're told, but real confusion as to how this has been able to happen. Yeah, it's no arrests either, I think. No arrests either. No. Fraser night. Thank you. Live from Wimbledon, where, as you heard, seven children and two adults have been injured after a car crashed into a primary school building in, in Wimbledon in south west London. The study preparatory school in Camp Road. Shortly before 10:00 this morning. It is 1251. Back to Mystria, you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We've got a lot. We need some arm. This is going to be tricky now. We're short of time. Come on, lads. Milan's in Paris. Milan. Question or answer. Answer. Carry on and make it snappy. Clouds. Pollution. How far does pollution travel? It can travel the length of the earth if it's light enough. You remember the CFCs making holes in the ozone layer? That was CFC traveling from all around the world to make a whole above Australia. God hates Australia. Yes. And the more interesting question, how far can clouds travel? They can travel pretty far, but it's pretty difficult. It's pretty impossible to study because clouds are constantly merging and, like, reforming and changing shape. So you kind of have a ship of theseus thing going on where you don't know whether one cloud is the same cloud as it was two days ago. So you go around the world more than once then. Really? Yeah, but they don't usually. One cloud won't usually be the same as it is after it's. No, no, it wasn't just clouds, though. That was just the way the conversation progressed as we were talking about it in terms of. Because, Beverly, it being pollution itself, like a molecule of pollution could go around the world a hundred times. Absolutely. But it depends on the density of the pollution stuff like particulates of qualifications, for example. Chemistry masters. Carry on. Round of applause for milling. I'm getting into trouble now because. No, apparently no irish people ever say top of the morning, but that was. Zach said that they work. We work with people on a building site. I've never heard it in the wild either, but I did say it myself in a hotel to someone who wasn't even irish, because I'm an idiot. But I don't think it was an advertising slogan created by an american cereal company. But what do I know? The question's on the board now. Brian's in Kildare. Brian, top of the morning to you. Top of the morning, James. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on to the. The question and answer to the question about the speed of the task. Effectively, it's the same as a police radar gun. So a seagull sends out waves, like pulses. The pulses hit the ball, they come back and then it measures the difference between the time. The time between the pulses is measured and the changing in the frequency of the pulses is like the mathematical methodology of the Doppler effect, just converted into a unit of speed. Doppler. Doppler effect. Perfect answer. Qualifications? Masters in engineering. That'll do nicely. And do you like tennis? I do. There he is. You got the lot. You got the lot. Thank you for that, Brian. 1255. Bet you all thought he was going to answer the other question as well, didn't you? You see theatre of the mind. Sam's in Manchester. Sam, question or answer? Yeah, it's an answer. Carry on. Yes. So it's about the sneezing one. Okay. Make it snappy if you can, because I've got to squeeze in a few more. Yes. So basically, when you sneeze, you're releasing energy, both your mouth and your nose. Yes. Right. And when you sneeze through your nose and mouth, you. It's a lot more of a relaxing release, basically. Yes. It is more pleasurable. You're absolutely right. And that's what. And that's why people. Oh, what a lovely answer. So it's got nothing to do with showing off. It's actually more pleasant. The harder you go, the more enjoyable it is. Sam? Yeah. Hi. Hello. Can you hear me okay? Well, yes, I can. What did you do? Yes, sorry about that. Yeah. So that's why. That's why when you sneeze through your nose as well, it makes the louder noise and it's a lot more pleasurable. And that's why people do it. I get it. And of course, that is also why if you're in a situation where you don't want to draw huge amounts of attention to yourself, you're perfectly capable of doing it more quietly. Yes. Qualifications, please, Sam? Yes. I actually studied a lot about these sort of unique bodily functions. And I've done a lot of self research and I've taken a couple of courses on there as well. Served you well. Here's your reward. Look at that. Well, you could frame it. Thank you, Sam. Lovely stuff. Diana's an Ely. Diana. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. So just be really easy with me. I'm really nervous. You know, I've listened to your show for many years, and when everyone says I'm nervous, I think to myself, get on with it. But my heart is racing out of my chest. So please bear with me. I'm going to now also, not more of an answer, but more just of a comment in regards to the guy that called begging for the board game, God bless him, for the DNA question. Yes, I work with scientists more in the research side. And scientists, I think they're very mission driven. So they don't want to patent something to necessarily make money. If you go into industry, then you're more likely to patent something and then be able to make your big money from it. People like, who create, who found and discovered and share the information about DNA, they are mission driven and they want to share that information with the rest of the world. But also, the other way that they could potentially get their name higher is that then they find something else and then other companies are, or other universities or other research institutes are then giving them money, funding to be able to grow their group and to be able to discover more. But most of this information is then put back into resources that will then continue to help other scientists because it's continuous, continual growth, not just one thing. And then we'll. It was a category error in some ways. The question, it was applying the parameters and presumptions of one area of human endeavour onto another, when in fact the rewards. I think that's very strong qualification. Scientist. No, I'm not a scientist, I just work in HR for a research institute. Oh, okay. That's even better in a way, because it means you sort of examine the people that come to work as scientists. So I'm going to give you. You've got a round of applause, Diana, all day long. Look at that. That wasn't so bad, was it? And give the man the pause. Board game. I heard his question the last time. Yeah, I did. I thought, he's really desperate. He really wants a board game, doesn't he? He does, God bless him. Well, we'll have to wait and see. Thank you, Diana. Lewis is in Putney. Lewis, question or answer? No, he's gone. Oh, no, this is terrible. It is coming up to 1250. We've got loads of. On Lewis, quickly. All right. It's animals eating for pleasure. Go on. So it's a bit of a chicken and egg thing, because you get a dopamine feedback from eating. So you get pleasure from eating. So you eat for pleasure. So all animals do, in a nutshell, but, yeah, all right, round. Qualifications? Degree in medical genetics. Round of applause for Lewis. John Zinnuri. John, question or answer? It's not an answer, James, but I've been living in Ireland for 42 years. Yeah. And only two weeks ago a man said to me, top of the morning, and that's the first time in 42 years. Do you know what that is, John? What? That's grand. Qualifications. Share that. Round of applause. We're out of time. It's got to be Jeremy, hasn't it, for the. For the board game. It's got to be Jeremy with his question about science because he didn't get one for the borehole. That's it for me for another week, day mystery hour. At least we'll be doing the program, the normal program again tomorrow from ten. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where apparently you can rewind live radio and also enjoy the whole show. Podcast. All LBC shows are there, all of them, as well as the world's biggest podcasts. Rewind live radio on global player download for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four, it's Tom Sawbrick. But now it's time for Sheila Fogarty.