Is there a point at which things can't get hotter?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. JAMES O'BRIEN yes, it is. Poor old Theo. I was wondering why the switchboard was going nuts just before the news there, as Theo was sharing, as to his treating as indeed to his Brexit related pearls of wisdom. But it was people jumping the gun and trying to get in early on on Mystria. I don't know that that works, to be honest with you. It's all about the quality of the question, not the speed with which you ring in. Because this is, of course, your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you have a question that admits an answer but you don't know what that answer is, give me a ring and ask the question. The number you need, as ever, is zero 345-606-0973 you will, as ever, only hear me say it when there are lines into the studio free and this hour is perhaps the busiest of all during our time together in the week. If you haven't heard it before, think of those newspaper and magazine features Q and A, or notes and queries someone writes in, and several years later they might get an answer. Things are rather quicker here. You ring in with your question. Somebody listening knows the answer. They ring in with it by 01:00 today. Which means, of course, that if you hear somebody ask a question to which you do know the answer, then you know what to do. If you provide an answer, I reserve the right to ask you what your qualifications are before going definitive. Your qualifications do not need to be either academic or formal. You could simply have seen the relevant information on television or read about it in a book. But you will need to specify precisely where, after which I will decide unilaterally and without recourse to complaint, whether or not you deserve a round of applause, at which point you will receive a round of applause. If, however, you are possessed of qualifications so unbelievably relevant to the question that is being asked, if indeed you are among a tiny, tiny, tiny number of people who could possess those relevant qualifications, you will receive the finest accolade british radio can bestow upon a listener, which is, of course, the Ray Liotta award for general brilliance. It's not confined to mystery. We had one earlier this week. If you missed it. Did you see the story we mentioned Birmingham earlier? Did you see the story about the makeup vlogger who brought Birmingham city centre to an entire standstill because the authorities had completely underestimated his popularity? 8000 people descended upon the bullring in England's second city. And the police were utterly, utterly taken by surprise. So much so that some people were left in traffic jams for hours because the ingress and egress of traffic in and out of the city centre was so severely compromised. So we were talking about that on Monday in quite a roundabout way. I was doing my classic, crikey, here's someone young and fashionable. I've never heard of shtick. Who is he? But I meant it in this context. It's not quite up there with the high court judge saying, who is the beatles? James Charles was the name of the. And lo and behold, he was in the car on the way to Heathrow and the driver of said car had this radio station on and he heard me talking about him and he pulled over and rang into the program, which ended up making the top ten on the BBC news website and the 06:00 News on ITV, the national news, which, I mean, it's great, but on the other hand, think about all the stuff we've done together over the last few years, some of which has made the national news, of course, but most of which, it's fair to say, hasn't. It was a conversation with a YouTube makeup vlogger that managed to fight its way onto the ITV 06:00 news headlines. Make of that what you will. Whether or not anybody on today's mystery hour ends up on the news later Today is unlikely, close to impossible. But never say never. Michael is in Westminster. Michael, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why is clinker used between railway lines? Worldwide, wherever I've been, I've seen this, these little stones between the railway lines just put some more flesh upon the bones of your question. Why wouldn't it be? I suppose I want to know. Why would it be? Yes, exactly. Okay, turn the other way around. Nowadays, the olden days, of course, they use wooden sleepers. Now, they seem to use cement sleepers. But if you go to Victoria station, which is my nearest station, you will see both the tube lines and the main lines. They will have these stones. Now, I can remember way back in South Africa, traveling two days on the steamer train back to Johannesburg, and there was clinker. I mean, is it definitely clinker? Because clinker is what's left over after you've burnt stuff, isn't it? Clinker is what you have to clean out of your fire. Something like that. Except it's now specifically made. So it's not clinker in that sense. It's just little stones? Yes. And I asked the station master at Victoria station, who'd been there for yonks, why. I have to tell you, he didn't know. It's not really in his purview, is it, in his job description? But if it's. It must be something to do with expanding and contracting, mustn't it? It must be. It might do. I do believe in the old days that, as I say, in South Africa, we were told that we could only use the toilet while the train was moving. And I assumed the clinker was there for obvious reasons, because they were long drops. That's as much as I can say. You're very polite. You could have said a little bit more than that, Michael, but you were clearly too well brought up to countenance the possibility. I mean, that's not going to be, is it? Just in St. Hang on one other. Is it just in stations? No, it's everywhere. Well, then, it's not going to be that, is it? No. I can only cast my mind back to that as being a reasonable reason, and that was only when we had. I think we've come close to answering this before, but hopefully we'll go definitive on it today. Why do railway tracks. Tracks all over the world have little stones surrounding and within them, as it were, it must be contracting and expanding, or some way of filling little holes, because they move up? I don't know. We'll find out. Deborah's in Swanscomb. Deborah, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why, as human beings, in the main, do we have four eye colours which are normally blue, brown, green and hazel? I know there are variations, but why are there no more than sort of four main eye colors? Why don't we have, like, a vibrant red or, you know, why are there only four main ones? It's a bit like asking why we haven't got purple skin, isn't it? It is. Although, actually, some of the. Some of the clips of me on the Internet, my skin's looking quite purple these days. Gonna have to get makeup in the hd studios if we carry on like this. Mister Gammon, you are that creature the Americans experiment on, aren't you? Not revealing that until after Brexit. But you see what I mean? I'm not being glib. Why are there only four eye colors? Why are there only two, three, four skin colors? It's just jeans in it. Jeans in it. Deborah. Jeans. Yeah, it's to do with jeans. But I just wondered why they were just four main colors, why there wasn't more vibrant colors in amongst those colors, I mean, you've got blue, you can get a normal blue or a really piercing blue. And I just wondered why. I mean, I know that albino people. Is it albino people? Yes. Can be a bit red, a different, you know, their skin color and their eye color. Yeah. And I just wondered if, you know, if or why there were never any. I'll put the question on the board. It could well be one of those ones that admits a much more interesting answer than we, either of us. Well, I expected. You're clearly expecting an interesting answer already. So we'll find out which one of us is going to have our hopes dashed and which one of us is going to see our dreams come true. Deborah. Okay. What color are your eyes? Kind of sounds a bit creepy. Are they? Yes. But I've got four sons and two have got piercing blue eyes and two have got brown eyes. Blue? Brown. No. Green? No. This guy. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, I know there are dominant genes and regressive genes and no guarantee that even siblings, as you've just demonstrated, would have the same colored eyes. But why? Those are relatively. Let us put it like this. I'm feeling quite poetic today. The restricted palette, eye colors, we shall call it. Deborah, you and I. Jim's in Dulwich Hill. Jim, question or answer? Oh, near enough. Jason, you mentioned that word. Which one? Mystery. Are that b word I'm allowed to. No, it's only on Tuesday. It's only on Tuesday. I was trying to do the whole show without the b word. Is it carried away? I've done all right. Carry on, Jim. It's to the ballast. Question about the railway lines. Is there for ballast? Is there to pressing against the sleepers, whether they're concrete or wood, to give a compact so that the rails don't move and you get a nice smooth journey. So what machine comes along often and compresses it down, lifts up the sleeper, so it's all perfectly level? What would happen if it wasn't there? What would it happen if it was? Then it would move. Ah, there you go, then. Think about it. No, I do. I get it now. I get it. Because it can slot into. If it was. Yeah, I get it correct. And the machine comes along every now and again, maybe once a week. Lifts the tracks, just supports the bit sleepers, pushes and compacts. It all used to be done by men years and years ago, but now the yellow machine does it. What were they called? It's a compacted machine. But what were the men called? They were called Navis. My dad was one. Navis is a catch all term, isn't it? They could also have been building the roads. They wouldn't just have had to have been. Yeah, but they were. Because I was thinking of wheel. I was thinking of wheel tappers and shunters and I was wondering if there was a. I know what they are, but I was wondering if there was a description for the fellows you've just described that. That was a bit like wheel tapping. Used to work the rails. That'll do qualifications, Jim. I was the second man many years ago, in the old days of steam and diesel. Were you really? Yes, I was, yeah. You mean you're the other bloke in the cab? I was the one that made the tea and I was the one that would have stoked the steam engine. You did all the shoveling. Can I ask how. Would you mind if I ask how old you are? I am 60, James, and it was a very, very, very end of it. And you must have just got. Was about to say, you sound. I'm 88 years old, James. And I remember I was on the flying Scotsman with Agatha Christie. I was in Cricketwood, so that's where I work. I love it. Round of applause for Jim. Yeah, I like that. Makes perfect sense a little bit. She's eating it. I think Nick is in Southgate. Nick, question or answer? Question, James, please. Go on. Right. I heard someone earlier you were talking to and they said. And they said, I want to knock 1010 bells out. This guy here. Where did that come from? Ten bells. Seven bells. No, ten. It was. Well, I think. Was it me that said it? No, it was someone you were talking to. I think the actual figure of speech is seven bells. It doesn't matter, does it? We're not going to argue about this. No, I'd never argue with you, mate. You're always right. Thank you. I might write a book about it. Knock seven bells is the phrase, I think. Okay, all right, seven bells. There's. That come from. I don't know. It was probably something to do with boxing or sailing. It's usually the navy or. I'm thinking boxing, like ding ding, round one. But why would it be seven? I'll find out for you. What is the origin of the phrase? I'll knock seven bells out of him. Good work, Nick. The best of James O'Brien continue with mystery. I'm just going to take a little brief pause, because just in case he's not listening, I'm going to say his surname as well, so that you can tell him that we did what we're about to do. Charles sent me some lovely stuff, Charles Brown Cole, to give him his full name, a really lovely note. But I don't know if you remember a question a couple of weeks ago about paneled front doors, which kind of apparently got a little bit wrong. There are aesthetic reasons for the paneled doors. The six paneled doors mimic a georgian facade. I could go on, but I won't, because Charles also sent me three books, the victorian house explained, georgian and Regency houses explained, and british architectural styles, all by Trevor York. Now, this is the point in proceedings where my younger colleagues look at me as if I have grown an extra head, while older listeners, I suspect, are going, oh, that sounds quite interesting. I'd quite like to have a look at that. And I like Charles. I'm fascinated by this sort of thing. So I have been dipping into those tomes with great interest. If you hear me dropping any architecture based knowledge bombs into proceedings in the coming days, you'll know that it is thanks to Trevor York via Charles Charles Brown Cole. So thank you all, mister out continues. Zero 345-606-0973 Peter is in Enfield. Peter, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. So I went to the off license and bought a small pack of sweets. Okay. And I picked the foam. Shrimp and bananas. Yes. And when I was eating them, I was wondering, why is it a combination of shrimp and bananas? Because I've never actually seen a dish that uses those two. Why would it not be something like, I don't know, bananas and strawberries or shrimp and some other kind of yellow fish? You can buy them separately. See, I've only ever seen them together in. Well, you're gonna have to take my word for it, man. I eat a lot of sweets. Not as much as I used to, actually, but I know a lot about sweets. If I go on mastermind, 1970s sweets would probably be my specialist subject. Foamed bananas and foam shrimps were only relatively recently sold in packets at all. They would ordinarily have been sold loose in sweet shops where you picked up a small paper bag and spent perhaps 20 pence on your Friday sweets. So you'd have a couple of aniseed balls, you might have a refresher, some blackjacks, maybe some mojos, fruit salads, if they're your thing. Some of those little swizzles, fizz tastics, depending on. I mean, I don't know what your personality type is, but some people might have dropped half of their Friday sweets money on one thing, like some candy cigarettes or a chomp bar or a fudge. But others of us like to get lots and lots of little penny sweets, in which case you'd have gone for maybe a couple of foam bananas, couple of foam shrimps. But only relatively recently, when things were all packaged and packed up, did they start being sold together. And one presumes the reason they were sold together is that they're the only readily available confection, both consisting of foam. But then why would they do it as a shrimp? Because that's not sweet. I've just told you why. Because they were made of foam. Because it's a nice shape. They needed to make it into a nice shape, so they just went for nice shapes of foam. What else? What would you prefer? Why would you go for a shrimp rather than a strawberry shape? Why would you go for anything rather than anything? A candy cigarette. Why did they make candy cigarettes instead of candy straws? But they just did. You know, they. Candy sticks. It's a lovely color of pink as well. Well, they are now sticks because of political correctness. Gone math later. But back in the day, you could call a candy cigarette a candy cigarette without being arrested. So the answer is because they do. Because they do. Round of applause for me. How old are you? 25. Favorite sweets from your childhood? Smarties. Really? Yeah. Old school. 22 minutes after twelve is the time. Tony's in Woodford. Tony. Maybe. Hang on, hang on. Sorry, Tone. Maybe we do need to leave half of that question up on the board, which is why shrimps? Because he does have a point. There aren't many other confectionaries based on crustaceans, so is there a reason why? There probably isn't, but we'll acknowledge the possibility that there might be. Tony's inward for. Sorry, Tony. Question or answer, mate? Yeah. Good afternoon. James O'Brien. It's a question. Hello. We hear the expression after 09:00 p.m. After the watershed for more adult programs. But what time in the morning does it finish? Does it finish at two? Don't think it does. I don't think it does. Formally, I think that is. I mean, it's not. It's an odd anachronism, isn't it, to the days of very terrestrial, linear television. Now it's more or less meaningless because you're watching it on Netflix or a streaming service you watch whenever you want. But I don't think the war, I think there's just a presumption that it ends with the close down. But the close down is now a redundant concept? Yeah. Just something that's been bothering me for quite a few years, but. Bothering you for quite a few years, Tony? Well, actually bothering me. It's very important that we choose our words carefully in post Brexit Britain, my friend. Bothering you for quite a few years. How would you describe your attitude to world peace, then, if the time at which the watershed end has been bothering you for quite a year, what are you age similar to me? Roughly the same age, are we? No, I'm 60. You're a bit older. So you remember even better than I do, the closed down. So the watershed ends with the closest. I shouldn't admit it. I'm a remainer. I shouldn't admit that really, either. So they. Why not? Because there's so many brexiteers around. You're safe here, mate. This is like. This is like Rick's bar in Casablanca. All right. All welcome. Although we know where right isn't wrong. There's another round of applause for me. I'm knocking him out the park today. Thank you. Kieran's in Weybridge. Kieran. Question or answer? That's question. Carry on. So we have an absolute zero, which is like -200 something degrees, or do we have an absolute hot. Nothing can get hotter than that temperature above which nothing can be hotter. I wouldn't have thought so. I don't know. No, obviously you don't know. Otherwise you wouldn't be rung in. I don't know, either. Otherwise I'd probably be working in a laboratory. Well, I mean, I could know. I can't imagine that you do, because there's always a possibility that there's an as yet undiscovered hotter thing, isn't it? Yeah, I mean, I guess our stuff we have discovered, you know, Mars. How hot is Mars? Mars is cold, isn't it? No, Mars is boiling. Is it? Got ice on it, has it? Why is it red, then? This is. I'll tell you what, this is high stuff. This mate Brian cox about. Look to his guns on this one, because we're coming after him. It's cold, isn't it? Why is it red, then? This is high. High powered academic conversations about the. Is it? Is miles not hot? No, hang on. It's freezing. All right. Well, I'm guess. I think so. All right. Well, yeah. Well, then, a hot place, then. Can you get hot in the sun? The sun's quite hot. There you go. How hot is the sun? I don't know. I'll see what I can do for you, Kieran. Thanks. Mind how you go. Helga is in Dublin. Helga, question or answer? Question, please carry on. I have a question about Christmas. So I lived in Holland for 24 years, married a dutch man, loads of dutch family. And I found it particularly odd that on Christmas day they didn't have this traditional meal. Well, I'm half danish, named Helga. So we'd have goose in Denmark and red cabbage. And like in England, you've got turkey. We've got this whole, like, heritage, nostalgia, big blowout meal. And the Dutch didn't have that. I have a theory about why, but that's not the question. The question is, are there any other christian countries that don't have a special Christmas meal? So it's just a yes or no answer then? It would be hard to answer. No. To answer yes. All we have to do is find one more. What's the traditional Christmas meal in Bulgaria? I don't know. I mean, I know that in Poland they do carp, don't they? So every country's got this Germany, Christmas. I don't know. You lived in Holland. I don't. I don't know that the French have a particular Christmas meal. They. I know they're big on oysters on Christmas Eve or New Year's Eve, but I don't know if you have. I don't know if there is a. I mean, it might be that the ones that do are the minority. Oh, well, you see, I didn't consider that had. I thought it was normal. Well, it's normal in our experience, but our experience, as you've just established, is quite limited. Yes, well, yeah, you are right. Usually I'm. But I shall find out for you. But I mean, by simply identifying one other country other than Holland that doesn't have a traditional Christmas meal. I mean, ours is relatively recent as well. It's usually just Dickens. Most of it either starts with Dickens or Coca Cola when it comes to. Yeah, but I mean, even Dickens, that's not. Okay. So in Holland they. What did you have on Christmas day? Did you just all get baked? No, they would just. I don't know, they just. There wasn't a traditional meal and everybody did their own thing and they did have this thing where there's like fried meat, but that wasn't a traditional meal. That was like something that was a. That was a fad. They exchanged gifts on the 5 December. But there isn't a meal associated with that day either. It's all sweets and cakes. So. But Dickens is because you said, oh, it's quite recent. But Dickens isn't that recent. No, I know. You're quite. You're quite right. I like the question. I just don't think it. As I say, I think we were looking at it originally from the wrong end of the telescope, because we would know between us, we'd probably know what the traditional Christmas diss of Germany was, or France or even Spain. So possibly none of them have them. And I was really annoyed with you when you said Christian then, because I was getting ready to be really patronizing and condescending. But I say, well, most non christian countries probably don't have a specific Christmas meal. But you saw me coming. Antonia galloped to my rescue. Mars is cold, James. The surface of Mars has an orange reddish color because its soil has iron oxide, or rust particles in it. Interestingly, Venus is hotter than mercury, despite mercury being closer to the sun. So now, you know, squeezing Steve in. Billericki, question or answer? Steve, answer for the ten bells. Ten bells? All seven bells. I got a bit above myself. I got a bit ahead of myself. Is there both figures of speech? Ten bells and seven bells. Go on. Okay. I got this from a beefeater from the Tower of London Jack the Ripper tour at the east end of London. Yeah. And there is a pub in the East End that's called the ten bells. And it's called that because there's a market right opposite. This is where my. My memory's bit hazy. There's a market right opposite where they used to come out and drink. They drink. Come over into the pub and drink heavily and then just beat each other up. And it got the nickname and the title of the ten belts. Really? Yeah. That's what I was told by beefeater. And I wasn't arguing a beefeater. But you think it's all to do with the name of a pub? It. The name of a pub. And I was also told that's where mines of P's and Q's come from. Yeah, seems legit. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Steve. Beautiful. No, you're very welcome. It may be that that admits a slight embellishment or a slight improvement, but it means to kick the living daylights out of somebody, so it could come from anywhere. I quite like that idea. Particularly rough pub. The best of James O'Brien questions that still need answers. The heat question is, I think it's a bit silly. Why are there only four eye colors? Is. Is there a point at which things can't get any hotter? Yeah, it is silly. Or is it? I don't know. Science isn't really my strong suit, but anyway, so we've got absolute zero. So I think the science behind that is it can't get any colder. But that would just be on Earth, wouldn't it, if you went up to. I don't know, I should just shut up, really. Well, don't let any more science questions on. All right? I'm sounding a bit thick. What else are we looking for answers to? We've kind of done the watershed. It ended with the close downs, so I'm cool with that. Knocking the ten bells out of people or the seven bells, that was all about a pub. Yeah, we're all right. I think we'll crack on, get some more questions on the board, see how things unfold. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Stuart's in Tottenham. Stuart. Question or answer? First question. Carry on. Um, I was laying in bed the other night. You were what? Laying in bed? Laying in bed? Yes. Yeah. Um. It was. No, this cold spell going on. My feet were a bit cold. Right. Now, the snag is they don't make beds really much longer than six foot. Why is that? They do make beds longer than six foot. They do? Yeah. Your. But your bed's longer than six foot, isn't it? No, the standard will make a standard length bed. You could buy them in different widths. Yeah, but you can't. It's got to be longer than six foot because I'm just over six foot. Six foot. And I don't. And if I have my head on the headboard, my feet aren't dangling over the end of the bed. Exactly. So they're all a standard length. I don't know what that standard length is. It might be six foot. Six foot wide doors. Yeah, but why is it a standard length of a bed? You can understand the door, but with a bed. Well, what's the difference? They're both designed. They're both designed according to how long people are. No, but you get different heights of doors, though, don't you? Because you've got tudor style, you want to. Well, that's because people were smaller in tudor times. You'd have had smaller beds in tudor times. Genius. I don't know about the beds in the Tudor. I do. I categorically do. Look at a suit of armor. It's tiny compared to what you'd need now. They were right little stumps, a lot of the Tudors. The fact remains, they make beds. One standard length. Same with doors. Well, because they. They. Because if they made them any shorter, people's legs would dangle over the edge and if they made them any longer, most people would have more bed than they need. It's got to fit in a house. That's not. That's not an answer, though, is it? Yeah, it's genius. It's not. That's a silly answer. Can it be a silly answer? It's. The two way might be silly, but it's the truth. Stuart. It's not the truth. Of course it's the truth. They take very inside. Not really. Not really. Well, you go outside on your street, go up and down your street, measure all the front doors and come back and tell me whether they're all the same size or not. I've got time to do that. What do you mean you haven't got time to do that? You're on the radio. You've got lots of time. You're killing time. Doors and beds are both designed. The standard size of a door or a bed is established according to average heights and lengths. No, that's not true. It is true. Not at all. It is true. What are your qualifications with that? I got a bed and a door. Exactly. Snap. So still not an answer, is it? Well, if they made it any shorter, people would be dangling over the edges. No, no, no. Yeah. No, that's. That's irreversible. If they made it any shorter, then people won't be dangling over the edge. They would be if they wish. If the beds were shorter, your feet would be dangling over the edge and if it was longer, it wouldn't fit in your house. So they've just. That depends if you're four foot or six foot. Also duvets. Oh, they see both on the same bandwagon now. It's not a bandwagon. I'm on a journey to enlightenment and you're. I don't know where you are, but here's the two of them. You need to have a standard size of bedside because. Bedding. Round of applause for me. No, stop it. That is it. They just took it. They took a general punt on an average sort of height. And this is the same with Dawes. All right, I'll give you the round of applause. Have it back. Give it to Stuart because he's a good man. All right, I'll leave the question. Why are all beds the same length? Those 345-606-0973 honestly, all sorts of rubbish getting on today. Glenn's in York. Glenn, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Glenn. It's. I know it's already been answered, sort of. It's in regards to the seven bells. We had ten bells. That was a pub. What's seven bells? Seven bells. The ten bells has somehow been derived from that over the years. But seven bells is the last bell you hear before the end of your shift on a ship. I thought it would be naval. I said it would be naval. It's a four hour shift, consists of eight half hour bells and it was on the History channel a couple of years ago. And it's something to do with when you hear the 7th bell, you know you're on the last bit before the end. And to kick seven bells out of someone is to bring him pretty much just before the end of the life, but not go to the 8th bell, if that makes any sense. Oh, seven. So it means it's nearly curtains, but not quite. Yeah, I love that. And it used to be the 7th bell on the 7th half hour. I love it. Yeah. Round of applause for Glenn. He's already told us his qualifications. Good work. I like that one. That was nice. How's big you. How big is your bed, Glen? Um, I'll be honest, I've never measured it, but. Six foot one. It's six foot six, mate. I'm six one and my feet don't hang over the end. There you go. You got five inches to play with. Actually, I should rephrase that. Glenn, carry on. 1240 is the time. Nigel's in Portsmouth. Nigel, question or answer? Hello, James, how you doing? Mustn't grumble, Nigel. What's on your mind? I've got a question for you. Hopefully some standing on a bit of thin ice here, because it's a bit to do with driving, but I'm hoping they put you through. Yeah. Interesting. Right. Me and my mates were talking over there. I used to drive gritters for a living. Did you? And. Yeah, we were saying it came up with a conversation in the pub. What do you do the rest of the year? Oh, no, that's. Oh, well, we used to just do the barrier repair, clear up accidents and all sorts of stuff. Yeah, yeah, got you. We were talking in the pub and we said, like, someone asked me, is it better to drive past a gritter faster or slower? Oh, this is the same question as whether you should walk or run in the rain. Oh, I haven't heard that one before. But, you know, if you say, if it's raining and I need to get from a to b, do I get wetter? If I walk or wetter if I run. And you're doing the same thing, I think, yeah, but will it do more damage to the car if you go past faster or you just creep past? It's a lovely question, because if you're going faster, the impact of what does hit you will be. Will be greater, but then you're getting less. Because I know how it works. It spins out its centimeters away per centimeter salt. Yeah. So it throws it out, and you can alter how much goes out, depending on how icy is or snow and everything else. So it all depends how the weather is to how much salt is coming out of the back of the gritter. But if you're going to just creep past, it's going to throw more salt on you. But if you're going quicker. What did you think? What did you and the lads think in the pub? I couldn't work it out. Was there not speed? They just go for it? They go faster, faster, faster. You might miss him thinking, that's going to do more damage. I would have thought you were right. I would lean towards you on this one, Nigel. Not that either of us have requisite qualifications to state it definitively. Doesn't like driving questions. It's not really a driving question. It's not. It's not really. It's a physics sort of mystery question, because it's the same as the rain question. I like this question a lot, Nigel. Blimey. I'm quite touched on. Let's not get carried away. Honestly. I don't suppose I get a round of applause for it, for actually asking a decent. You suppose? Right, Nigel. Let's not get carried away. I'll go and give him a round of applause then. That's it. Now. Because I get complaints. I get complaints. I start doshing them out like that. David is in yeovil. David, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Why are blood donors not routinely checked for ferritin levels? For what levels, Felix? Iron stores. I don't know. Yeah. Has it? Don't be all serious. Mystery has not. I know. I'm sure it's important, but mystery has not. For all serious stuff. We don't do serious stuff on mystery. Out. Okay. Well, they let me through. Yeah, I know. I'm gonna have words about that ferreted. Why don't. I mean, why don't they check for ferrets? I mean, you could just ask for next time you go to give blood. You can't. No. Well, yeah. What they do, they actually check your hemoglobin levels. Yeah. Which, you know, and they put a drop of blood in a little file and it drops down to the bottom. And what's the problem with not checking your ferritin levels? What does that. Because. Yeah. Because if you don't check your ferritin levels and your ferritin levels can drop pretty much down to zero. Right. But what's wrong with that? Well, because by that time, you're bloody ill. Sorry, excuse my light. That's all right. Yeah, you're very ill by the. By the time you get to that. Yeah, but if I've got blood with no ferritin in it. Yeah. And I'm giving it to someone in a blood transfusion, it's not going to make the blindest bit of difference to their ferritin levels, is it because they're ferritin level? No, but you'll know about it pretty soon, which I did a couple of years ago. Well, I knew there was something serious underpinning this. It's why I've resisted my usually irresistible urge to go in for a bit of banter and triviality and pure our humor. So I will put a question on the board. But if you got poorly a couple of years ago, I'm surprised you haven't asked anyone else. I'm not a doctor. I have. No, I've asked lots of people and I found some. I found a few. A few little clues. Right. We're not looking at a conspiracy theory, are we, here, David? Well, I don't like conspiracy theories, honestly. But, you know, you could say the answer is bleeding obvious because they want people to give blood. Right. Bleeding, obviously. But you know what I'm talking about. I have no idea. I'm not. I'm not being rude, I haven't got a Scooby Doo, what you're talking about, but that's no harm. It's mystery hour. I'm not supposed to know what you're doing. Why don't they test for ferret? Ferrets. Ferritin. Ferritin levels. Ferritin, yeah. Ferritin. Where are you? In Yeovil. I went ferritin. I went ferritin in Yorkshire once. The best of James O'Brien. I love this question, because next time you see a gritter, you're gonna be thinking of Nigel. No, not him. Nice Nigel who rang in with the question. You're going to be thinking, what's the best way to minimize damage to my car from this gritter? Do I go past it as fast as possible or do I go past it as slowly as possible. Oh, I've just changed my mind on that, I think. Slowly. What do you think? It doesn't matter. We need to go definitive. Is there such a thing as maximum temperature, a temperature above which it is impossible to go? Why are there only four eye colors? I feel bad we haven't got Deborah a better answer to that question. Or indeed, any answer at all. But it may be the question wasn't very good. I was just too polite to say so. Are there any other countries than Holland, christian countries, obs where there is not a traditional Christmas lunch? Yes, I know there is. I've just remembered a couple that I know quite well, but it's too late now, so you'll have to ring in with your answer. And what was the last one? The what? Blood donors. Why don't they test for ferritin? There's a big scandal there, I suspect. I told you. I did some. I told you the Brexit blood donor story yesterday, didn't I? I tweeted on Tuesday that a very, very reliable source had told me that they were cancelling blood donation appointments in the Kent ports until may because they're worried about Operation Stack and the motorway turning into a car park. A little bit of skepticism on social media. Can you believe it? People accusing me of scammongering. But my source was impeccable, which is why, within 40 minutes, the official agency confirmed what I had reported. I think that's the first time I've broken a story on Twitter and seen it confirmed by official sources how the world turned. They get paid for Twitter. It's outrageous. Would you pay a pound a year to follow someone on Twitter? I just sort of wondering how they're going to monetize it, because I've got about 400 odd thousand followers. You'd only need about 10% of them to actually sign up. A pound a year is not a lot. Jobs are good. I digress. Simon's in Littlehampton. Question or answer, Simon. Afternoon, James. Question. Carry on. It's a food one. It's a difference between a beef casserole and or beef stew, because I've said to my wife in the past, I've made a beef stew this week. Lovely. We've eaten it and then a couple of weeks later, I've said, oh, I've made a beef casserole and I've used exactly the same recipe and you're playing with the same product. You're playing with her brain, aren't you? I know. I know the answer to this. Actually, your researcher was halfway through and then she sort of gave up, but I think she was close. The casserole simply is the name of the dish. Ah. So the. The french word for a large. Well, it's a big old pan with a lid, isn't it? And it's called a casserole. So I think theoretically, there is no difference between a casserole and a stew, because if you cook your stew in a casserole pot, it's a casserole. Yeah, exactly. That is it. So the answer is probably class. So when we were kids, we had stew, and then when mum started going a little bit hyacinth bucket, we moved on to casseroles. It was the same recipe. Well, I look forward to Jamie Oliver phoning in and never rings in. Jamie. He's far too busy. You ever go to his hq, mate? The fellow takes a lot of stick. Almost all of. Well, all of which, in my opinion, is entirely unjustified. But if you ever see him at work, it is like watching Caractacus pots in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. He's got stuff going over there, he's got the charity stuff in that corner, he's got people testing recipes and he's only. The idea of him having ten minutes to ring up mystery. You're having a giraffe. I get a round of applause for that, I think. Thank you. We haven't done the foam shrimps. I don't imagine there is an answer to that. Where did that. What's that all about? You go, if you invented foam shrimps, you can tell us why. You'll get a Rayleigh otter, all right? Or even if it was your mum or your dad. Matt's in Tangley in Hampshire. Matt, question or answer? It's an answer. James. G'day. Hello. You probably told my accent. There we go. There's the answer. A round of applause for Matt. Australians don't have a traditional Christmas meal. G'day, Matt. Correct. Well played. We might. First is Australia. Does Australia count as a christian country, though? A bunch of heathens. Last time I went, that's just rude. You won't be welcome back. Without you, I'd be like Prince Philip. This is probably a made up story coming through australian customs and you're going through one of your republican periods. So they said to him, excuse me, sir, have you got a criminal record? And he said, I have no idea. It was still compulsory. Sorry. The old ones are the best. Have another round of applause. Thank you very much. What do you normally have? Because I was in Australia on Christmas day once, which is how I kind of realized what the answer to the question. We just did a barbie. It depends on the weather. If it's nice and warm, you'll just have. We don't call them shrimps. Prawns, fresh prawns, a bit of seafood. What's more traditional, you go to your local chicken shop and get someone's. If someone will roast your chicken, you take that home and tear it a bit. A rotisserie. Rotisserie chicken. Yeah. Yeah. I love those. Well played, Matt. Good work. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mind. There you go. 1254, Alice is in hairfield. Alice, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Alice. So it's an answer to the blood question about ferritin. Yes. Is it bleeding obvious? No, it's not, actually. It shouldn't be. Sorry. So when you think of ferritin, ferritin is a storage protein. So it store. It shows you how much iron you've got in your. So if you do a ferritin test, essentially it tells you whether you've got iron in your stores or not. You can get increased ferritin if you have some form of inflammation as well. Yeah. So if you do a ferritin test before you give blood, what it's going to tell you is about your iron in your stores. It's not telling you. You're saying stools, stools, iron. Stores, stores. So in your stores. Yeah. I don't know if I understand, so, sorry, I'm being a bit sick again, but why don't they test blood for iron for ferritin levels? Answer. Because it's not necessarily what they're looking for. They're looking at why the question was all weird and conspiracy ish, wasn't it? Because he's got some idea in his head and he's not telling us what it is. And then expecting me to understand the point of the question when you ring in to answer it, despite the fact I've no idea what conspiracy it is that he's conspiring to disseminate. Who knows? But for a hemoglobin, if you test hemoglobin, if you stop it. Yes. Stop it. Sorry. If you've got a low hemoglobin, then if you give blood, obviously you're gonna. Your hemoglobin is gonna get less and potentially you could get dizzy or lightheaded or faint or, you know, which is still. We're still none the wiser. I'm wiser about your answer, but I'm no wiser about the question. Give Alice a round of applause. No, thank you, Alice. I don't know the number. It's 12 50 65. Shields will be here in a minute. Michael's in Bromley. Michael, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on. And I'm gonna say that you might be wrong, just for the first time I've ever heard it. Well, hang on a minute. There's a bit of. A bit of a brewha ha unfolding on Twitter about casserole stew, with some people saying that you do a stew on the hob and a casserole in the oven, to which I say no. Well, I can. I can only say, James, that I've only heard you possibly wrong once, and it might be on this occasion. Go on, then. And that is the watershed. What? I think the watershed finishes at 06:00 a.m. You're joking. No, because I was watching a bellator fight last year, and just as it got to the main event, they cut it off on channel five and put on Peppa pig because 06:00 a.m. Was the watershed. Is that right? Could well be true. Well, what about the dirty stuff on those weird sky channels? Well, I don't watch all that, James. You've nearly fell into that one, Michael, didn't you? For watching? I nearly did, but luckily my wife, she's got control of the remote control apart from at 06:00 a.m.. I see. You have to get up early to watch Peppa pig. I am. That is it. Because you know the ones. I mean, I don't know if they're even still there, but the ones where you bring up and some. I don't know what you're talking about. Some poor woman in a fish tank will talk to you for ten minutes in return for about 500 quid. So they come on late, late at night, and presumably they come off at six. Oh, well, I don't know. Waiting for the. I'll give you a round of applause. I don't know that it's true. Thank you, mate. Mind how you go. And I'm not having anything on the stew. Casserole one. A casserole is the name of a dish. You can make a stew in the oven if you want. It doesn't become a casserole if you do it in the oven. It could still be a stew. I think Professor Hal is here. Let's find out why. Hello, how. Hello, James. How are you? Very well. Stu. Casserole conundrum. No, I wanted to answer the infinite nature of hotness. Thank you. It's funny you should say that to me. You might think so. Nothing can get colder than absolute zero because molecular motion ceases and you can't get any colder. And you'd think that you could always heat something a little bit more, but no, because every hot thing emits radiation, electromagnetic radiation. And the hotter the thing, the shorter the wavelength of the radiation. At some point it reaches what's called the planck length, which is the smallest thing you can ever get to. And that corresponds to a temperature of about ten to the power 32 celsius or Kelvin. And above that you can't heat it anymore. So there is. The maximum is 10 million million million. Sextillion. Sextillion, yeah. Ten to the power 32. Qualifications. I'm really delighted to be the professor of public understanding at the University of Brighton. Round of applause for professor that's it for today. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten only on LBC.