How do scallops multiply?

Leading Britain's conversation. This is a podcast from LBC. James O'Brien, it is indeed time for mystery. I your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a question that you suspect somebody will know the answer to, and the number remains the same. Of course, if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you do know the answer. The rules are simple, but very, very, very rigorous. Rigorously, even. Just put my teeth in. Very rigorously imposed. Don't be boring. So if you sense when you ring in that the people answering the phone are unimpressed by your inquiry, don't labor the point. Just. Just politely move along. Make room for someone else. And repetition as well. But that's kind of my job, to look out for repetition. Given that you're not going to know what happened on this program five years ago, nor am I, actually, but I'm more qualified than you are, what with the fact that I presented it, and that pretty much covers it. Oh, you're not allowed to look stuff up in order to find an answer, obs, because that would make a mockery of the whole thing. It's a celebration of education, enlightenment, knowledge, and it does have. I mention this every few weeks. It has a very serious subtext, actually, I was talking to one of my children about it at the weekend, because I don't know what their relationship with knowledge is going to be like as they get older. I still try and teach them according to my relationship with knowledge, but their schools don't. The schools recognize the fact that they can be online in a heartbeat, in a way that we simply couldn't. I belong to a generation that was still troubled by the thought of taking pocket calculators into maths exams on the grounds that somehow it compromised your ability to do maths. I remember having arguments at the time about the point being, well, why. If you got a calculator, why do you need to know what PI is? You just press the PI. 3.141,592. You just press the button on the thing, or sohcahtoa. Do you remember Sohcahtoa? For trigonometry, the sign is the opposite of the hypotenuse. The cosine is the adjacent, and the hypotenuse and the tangent is the opposite and the adjacent. Why do you need to know all that now? Because you can literally find it out in a heartbeat, whereas when I was a kid, you couldn't so that's what mystery hour is. It kind of recognizes that knowledge. We still think knowledge is good, even though we also recognize that the sum total of the species entire knowledge base is accessible at the flick of a mouse. Seven minutes after twelve is a time. So this is how the questions work. A who or why, a what, a where or when, a whither, a wherefore, even the occasional whence. You ring me and say, why do we do jack that? Where does that come from? I was out the other day and I saw this thing and I want to know, does it? What's that for? Anything. I like the serious stuff, but some of the best questions we've had on mister era over the years have been very much at the silly end of the scale. So whatever it is, whether it's silly or serious or somewhere in between, then the number remains the same. And if you know the answer, just ring in and tell me. I will ask what your qualifications are. It's not a strict bar. It's not a difficult bar to get over, you might say, as one of our regular contributors does, you might say, for example, I'm the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, and that would be a great qualification if you're answering a science question. Or you might say, I saw it on the telly last night, James. I saw it on David Attenborough last night, and that's just as valid a qualification. All I'm trying to do is establish the credibility of your contribution. Yeah. So that's quite straightforward. And what that means is that if your qualification is incredible, if it's so relevant and on the money, then you might get a Ray Liotta. Okay? A Ray Liotta is a reward on the program that is reserved for people whose qualifications for the contribution that they've made are almost unbelievably solid. So if we were, for example, having a conversation about the Vatican and someone called Francis rang in to answer it, and I said, what are your qualifications? And he said, I am a dapop. That would definitely get a Ray Liotta. It doesn't quite have to be that impressive, but it has to be quite impressive. And sometimes people complain when I award them, some people complain when I don't. I ignore you all furiously. Speaking of experts, because there is a lot of room for experts on this program. If you're just tuning in for Mister era and you've missed the first 2 hours of the program, you'll be surprised to learn that I've been singing Donald Trump's praises today. It's not something I ordinarily do, because I think that his response to the imminent arrival of a particularly virulent hurricane upon the american soil is a rare example of him seeming both incredibly intelligent, informed and compassionate. This is what Donald Trump had to say about that hurricane. It's tremendously wet. It's nine minutes after twelve and Jack can kick us off this week in Worcester park. Question or answer, Jack? Hello, James. It's a question, actually. Me and my brothers, we all listen to your show and we love it. Who will be listening now? We've been talking about this for a while. Basically ripped off. Where does that come from? If you go to a shop and you feel like it was too expensive, you say, oh, I feel like I was ripped off by that transaction. Where is the origins of it? Where does it come from? What do you think it means? You've paid over the odds, doesn't it? It doesn't mean you've been conned. It's not. If you bought, if you bought a box and you'd been told that it had a computer in it and when you got it home it had bricks in it, would that be ripped off? Or would that be. That would also be ripped off? Yeah, I'll say that. As well as being overcharged, like, that's not what you thought, but it probably only meant one of them originally. That's what I'm thinking. Because you know what clipping coins is? When. When coins were actually worth what they were worth, according to what metal was in them, people would clip a tiny bit off and melt it down to make. I wonder if it's in some way going to be to do with ripping something off. And you, you thinking that. Go on. Yeah. Tell me what the three brothers, the three amigos, the three hawking boat thinking was that instead of maybe clothing, like if you're buying clothing, they'd rip the price tag off. So maybe they could charge you more for it, depending on how you look. Something on their minds. Great minds. I'm thinking similarly, I'm thinking literally that it will be a literal ripping involved, but that has come to become metaphorical over the years. I love that. Jack. Regards to your brothers, what is the origin of the phrase ripped off? Zero 345-606-0973 Wayne Embassy if he's listening today, read the entire brewers dictionary of phrase and fable about five years ago, precisely so that he would be able to wade in and answer questions like this. Let's see if he can remember. Matt is in rather a Matt, question or answer? So, question, James. Carry on, Matt. James, I was having a little bonfire the other day and I started thinking, why do we, in 2018, still use something as neolithic as water to put out large building fires? Why is nothing being developed which is more technical, technique more advanced? Easy for you to say. I think I can answer this, please. I think you've answered it, actually. Water is brilliant. Water. I mean, it works. It's brilliant. It's the best thing. It's the best thing you could use. I mean, think of it in terms of accessibility, in terms of efficacy and in terms of cost. You're never going to find anything better than water, mate. Well, that's my question. We're not going to invent a reverse microwave. What about liquid nitrogen? Liquid helium? Where are you going to get that from, mate? If you're trying to put out a big warehouse fire, you need. You need something that's plugged into the mains. Well, why don't we have a liquid helium mains? We could save millions of lives here, James. Yeah, I don't think so. I think my answer is probably close to definitive, but I'm going to leave your question on the board in the rare hope that there might be some area of expertise that would be able to address your questions more directly. Professor Howe's on the line, but I presume it's for your question, so we might. I know what he's going to do. He's going to ring in and tell me why we can't have liquid helium coming down the mains. He's not going to ring in and tell us why we still use water for putting out fires. The reason why we still use water for putting out fires is because there's nothing better. But you want to know why? And I don't know if that counts as a proper question. I think there's nothing cheaper, James. And if that's the answer, that'll be interesting. Okay. I mean, that is. Cheaper is the answer to almost everything, remember? Because, as I often use as an example of the Jubilee line on the London Underground, in London, where it's impossible to fall under the train, which they could on a lot of the Jubilee line, it is, because the doors align almost perfectly, perfectly with a tunnel on the platform. Now, they could do that on every platform, on every line and on every train in every county of this country, and that would save lives. But they don't, because the cost would be immense. And somewhere someone tots up the figures and says, no, that's not worth it. That life isn't worth that much money. Slightly depressing thought, but that's society. John's in reading. John, question or answer? Question, please, James. And you all right, mate? I'm all good, John, how are you? My question today is about tapping. Not the actual element of tapping, but tapping to tapping trees. So if you drill into a tree and you install a tap into a tree and then SAP comes out, I wanted to know where the origin of basic tapping comes from. Tapping trees as in getting the SAP out of trees. Where does that come from? Yeah, people make drinks out of it and. Sorry, I saw it in Sri Lanka once. I can't remember what was coming out of the tree. What would it have been? I think it might be palm trees. Would it be palm oil? If something's all. I don't know. Yeah. So you got like. You got like people from all around the world, from different countries, from Europe away to the Middle east. Basically all people who tap into trees. Maple syrup. Does that come out of a tap? But you'd stick a tap in a maple tree to get maple syrup, I presume you do. I don't know. Your favorite answer? I don't know. I don't know the best words in the english language. Okay. I mean, so you want the first 1st known historical example of it? Yep. And it has to be someone with a legitimate qualification to answer it. Yeah, mate, I'll be the judge of that. It's coming up to quarter to twelve. I mean, obviously everyone has a legitimate qualification, but not necessarily an academic one. When did we start tapping trees? Have I made a fool of myself again? Did we not get maple syrup out of maple trees by some form of tapping? I don't know. Fire and water, I've written down here. Oh, yeah. Why do we still use water to put out fires? You kind of had to be there to understand that question and the origin of the phrase ripped off, which is how you will feel if you tuned into this program. Expecting a conversation about Brexit today. The best of James O'Brien mystery areas upon us. What's the origin of the phrase ripped off? Why do we still use water to put out fires? And when do we start tapping trees to get stuff out of them? Thank you for. Where's that fellow gone with the canadian girlfriend? I've lost your tweet. But he's done it with his kidderminster. Mike has played a blinder. We're about to. Yes, the tapping of cheese. Maple syrup. That is how you get maple syrup. But kidderminster. Mike, I like the way that you've described yourself, Mike, quite accurately, deciding that if you were to put my hometown in front of your name, whether you're texting from there or not, then I will notice it a little bit more early. But that question about why we still use. Why we still use water to put out fires. Kidderminster. Mike has been in touch to point out that the president of the United States of America has the answer. It's tremendously wet. Thank you, mister president. Chris is in Liverpool. Chris, question or answer? It's a question. James. Carry on, mate. Why are there no formal passport checks when you're leaving the UK? Whereas when you're leaving Austria, France, Germany, Spain, any of these countries, they have a kind of formal immigration officer standing there checking everyone's passports before you get on the plane. What do you mean by formal? Because you can't go on the plane until you've shown it at the gate. But now, if you think so, when you check it in and putting your cases in or whatever, you may get it checked by the lady who works for the airport. You always do you have to always do you have to show it? You can't get your boarding pass without showing your passport. Correct. But you do all of that in Spain as well. But then before you get on the plane, they actually have a member of the police or a member of the immigration a sat in a booth, and it's very formal and you have to walk up and they'll check it and scan it and everything. Whereas in this country, or certainly in my experience at Manchester, it's always been just a quick sort of glance at it and then you're on the plane. There's not a formal sort of recognize what you described. I've been to all of the other countries that you mentioned. I don't remember feeling more closely scrutinized. Yeah, I mean, I was in Croatia last week, for example. Made me think. I've thought about it in the past, but it made me think that, you know, you literally walk up, you queue, and you have to show your passport. It's a member of the police, they're there, they're checking it, and, you know, it seems a lot more formal than the way they do in the UK. The UK is always a bit more sort of. It's either someone from the airline having a quick glance at it, or someone from the airline. I put the question on the board, but you keep using words to sort of undermine my point. It's not a quick glance at it. They check it and they run it through the computer. I'm not sure I've ever been run through a computer board in a plane in the UK. It doesn't seem like they look. Maybe not. But you presume that they're doing something more than just looking at it. Don't they scan it and they hold it over that metal with that glass window and it gets scanned into the. I think they do. When you come back into the. I don't get the question. I'm going to leave it on the board. Why are you so concerned about it? You got some big smuggling plans up your sleeve? Yeah, exactly. Fair enough. I don't want to indulge in Liverpudly and cliches there. That was a coincidence, geographically speaking. Chris, why don't you have formal passport checks when you leave the UK? There was some debate in the production office over whether or not that was a stupid question. I'm on Ivan's side. Paul's in St Paul's. Paul. Paul's in St Paul's. These things please me. I've got such a low threshold for verbal pleasure. Question or answer? Paul in St Paul's? Yeah. Well, I'm very glad to have pleased you. Yeah. It was just about the water one I appreciate. I think someone had phoned in already. Yes. To give an answer. No. Oh, no, they hadn't already. We did get an answer from. From. From this guy. It's tremendously wet. Because the question was, why is water still used for putting out fires? I mean. Yeah, he knows what he's talking about. So anyway, right, well, so I'm a fire engineer. I actually sort of prescribe what type of firefighting provisions should go into various buildings. So I think the original question is, why is it only water? Yes. Well, that's. That's wrong. So. Well, first of all, the reason it's the main one is because. Yeah. It's so easy, like, for the infrastructure to go in. They're all there and what is readily available. But I'm assuming at LBC you'll have, like, a huge computer room. There'll be all sorts of property protection in there, and the last thing you want is a sprinkler system going off and. Because it will short circuit everything. Well, exactly. So what you do is every type of fire will have its flammability limits. So if you assume your standard atmosphere is 80% nitrogen, 20% oxygen, there, there. About what you can do is you can have inert gas and you can just flood the room and that will take the flammability limit. Such that there's not enough oxygen in the room and that will suppress the fire. So. But it wouldn't. It wouldn't work on a bushfire because you're outdoors. Yeah, well, I mean. Oh, that's just silly. Yeah, I know that. It's just silly. I'm kind of mocking the bloke that asked the original question without making it clear that I'm mocking him. And in terms of. He said, why don't we have liquid helium piped up and down the country? Liquid here or hydrogen? Liquid hydrogen. Because, I mean, you see where he's coming from. He's sort of thinking, well, we used water to put out fires when we were cavemen. How come we're still using it now? But. But the answer is we're not using it exclusively and there isn't anything better. Yeah, well, I mean, I'll let him. Sorry. The logistics. Yeah, that sounds. How many fire engineers are there in the country? That's a good question. Well, in my company, we're about 20. I think we're quite a rare breed. And your job is literally to decide what substances are best employed as part of it. So within the sort of building regulations I look at fire. So that's like means of warning. So your detection systems, means of escape, how everyone gets out and what the buildings construct. I need to know. I need to get. And were you listening to mystery randomly or was. Did someone put you onto the fact that we had a question that suited your skill set so perfectly? I've been listening to you for the last three years. I need to get a ballpark figure for how many people there will be with your job description. I really couldn't say. I can't imagine it being too far into the thousands, but I really couldn't say. You got it. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. That's a true honor. You've made my day. Yeah. No, it's not. It's not finished yet. You get a round of applause as well. Paul in St. Paul. You soften me up, you see. Soften me up with the name matching the location so perfectly. Tara is in Caterham. Tara. Question or answer? Question, please carry on. You know the war between the English and the French in the water. The English Channel. Which one? And they're waiting for the scallops. Oh, this one, the more recent one. Yes, yes, yes, yes. How do scallops multiply? You mean sex? You want to know about scallop? Sex. How do we get more? How do they. How are more created? Well, it's going to be sex. You want to know how they mate? Why don't you just come out and say it? How do scallops mate? Well, how do we get. Just. How do we get more? How do they multiply? How do they mate? Yes, all of that. It's the mating you want to know about. Why are you being so coyote? I'm not. You are being coy. You want to know how scallops do it? Do you know? No, I don't particularly want to know because I'm not weird, but I'll put it on the board. That's absolutely fine. Tara, with the scallop fetish, I can. I can absolutely indulge that for you. Okay. Why do you want to know? Well, I just wanted to know. I had this thought, you know, they're waiting for more scallops to come by, and you just. You just wonder how. How do they. Monster, actually, you know what's going to happen now, don't you? What's going to happen? The answer is not going to involve sex. It probably isn't, and I'm gonna look like an idiot. But, you know, I didn't want to interrupt the person who was leading the show. Well, that's very kind of you, but please don't be so reluctant next time, especially if you think I might be in the process of making a fool of myself. No comment. No comment. Thank you, Tara. How do scallops make baby scallops? Zero. 345-676-0973 it's the number you need. Patricia's in Peckham. Patricia, question or answer? I have a question, James. My question is, why is a scratch a remedy for an itch? Why wouldn't it be? Why that specifically? Well, an itch is to do with your nerves. Yeah. And a scratch is also to do with your nerves. So when you've got an itch and you scratch it, the irritation to your nerves goes away. Really? Simple as that? Yeah. Okay. I think that is it. You sure? Yeah, I'm positive. I do a lot of scratching. I do. It's a male thing. This, I presume, is it, Patricia, as I get older, I find that scratching increasingly is one of life's greatest pleasures. It's a male thing. Okay. Is there a man in your life at the moment? Yes, there is. Can I ask how old he is? He is 47. Does he do a lot of scratching? Yes. More than he did when you met, am I right? Yeah. Now, here's the question. Is it because he's more comfortable scratching in your presence now that you know each other so well? Or does the pleasure of scratching increase for men as they get older? That's a good question. It's better than yours. I find it annoying, though, that last night I was lying in bed and I had to sweat it. We are still. We're not doing figures of speech now, are we, Patricia? No, no, no, not that good as. I mean, this is a family program. No, no, no. It's just. It's your nerves. It's just your nerves. It's the scratchy. I mean, I'll leave it on the board because we probably want a slightly more academic sounding answer, don't we? But I shall, um. I shall endeavor to get you one. Why does scratching fix itches? How do scallops get made? Passport checks, tapping of trees, fire and water. Beautifully handled. We even got a ray Liotta and the origin of the phrase ripped off. It's coming up, too. Half past off. I can squeeze in Luke in Basingstoke if he's very quick. Luke, question or answer? It's an answer. Go on. I don't think it's going to be as definitive as you like, but it's about the tree tapping. Yes. So, I mean, tree tapping has been around since, like, indigenous. The indigenous Canadians would have done it with maple syrup. Yeah. And it would have been in Europe for thousands of years. Yeah, you're right. That's not as definitive as I would have liked, but. No, it's all right, mate. I mean, it's been around for thousands of years. I think we could have worked out between us that that isn't going to get a round of applause, the best of James O'Brien. It's mystery out, which, for the first time ever, actually, I. There's two stories I've kind of dropped the ball on today, I think this story about the conservative meps being the only governing Conservative, the only right wing governing party in Europe to whip its meps to vote against attempts to censure Viktor Orban, the hungarian fascist, for his. And that's incredible. It was whipped. I had to double check that. It was whipped not to because it could have a Brexit explanation. You know, they could just be throwing cogs and spokes in the sticks, in the spokes of everything in the European Parliament at the moment because they're such supporters of Brexit. But, I mean, this is quite incredible. The only governing conservative party in western Europe to support the Hungarian far right in an EU vote yesterday was ours. I know I joke a lot about not being able to get guests on the programme from the governing party or indeed the opposition leader, but, I mean, we're going to have to speak to someone about this. The anti semitism problems with which the Labour party is still so inadequately wrestling are real and present despite some attempts to deny them. But voting for an actual far right leader, this is someone who undermines the independence of the judiciary. He has he locked up journalists. Alban, I haven't. Certainly very, very hard to find any journalism, free journalism in Hungary that is critical of the government and every other conservative governing conservative party in western Europe voted the other way. We are becoming something I don't recognize anymore in this country. And quite a few of you have pointed out, as I suggested, they're not just flirting with fascists anymore, they're actually voting for them. Quite a few of you are asking, at which point do you actually start asking yourself, James, whether they might be on the right side? So we will get stuck into that story tomorrow, God willing. Zero, 345-606-0973 is the number that you need in the other story. In case you were wondering, I said, I dropped two balls. Today was the russian story. I just want to say one thing very briefly about this. The two men who were responsible for trying to kill Sergei Scrippel on british soil and who accidentally killed another british citizen and left two others, her partner and skripals daughter, very, very seriously ill have given an interview to russian state television in which they laugh at all of us. They laugh at you and they laugh at me. As we were in Salisbury to admire the spire on the. They are laughing their socks off the minute the cameras stop rolling. They think this is genuinely hilarious. The men that killed Andrei Litvinenko in London ended up serving in the russian parliament and the other one got his own chat show on tv. Putin sends these people to this country to kill us, to kill our neighbors and then they go on national television to laugh. And there are still people in public life in Britain who are on their side. Not yours, not ours, not just in Britain. Embarrassingly close to home sometimes. 1237 is the time. Back to mystery. Ah, my apologies for that brief interlude of seriousness. Eric's in New Malden. Eric, what can you tell us? Question or answer? Answer, sir. Carry on, Eric. It's the etymology rip off. Oh, good. So it's actually not that old. It's from the late sixties. It's african american slang. Yeah. So it means to steal off of someone rip was used since the early 19 hundreds in America as prison slang to steal. And then rip off was just an evolution of that. Right. And rip is actually danish. Is it? So, yeah. It means to tear apart roughly. Oh, yeah, sure. Which is. Which is why you find that in things like rip tides, rip currents are things that pull things away very quickly. How do we know that it got. That it evolved in that way in the sixties, just from the literature. So that's where it came in print. But what are your qualifications? What are your. How do you know this? Oh, I studied etymology at Penn State University. I know that. You told me last week. But you don't remember this, did you? It just filed away in the back of your mind as. Rip is one of my favorite words. Is it? It is, yeah. Because even, like rip cord on a parachute, originally, that was a cord on hot air balloons that you would pull to open up a little patch in the balloon to let the air out. So you come down. So synonym for steel. And then in the sixties, it just moved on to rip off. We're going to rip off that guy. We're going to shy, because that makes it. It's the person that you rip off. It's the goods that you rip. Yes, I like it. Precisely. So is that two for two for you? Eric, did you. Was it last week that you were on? It was last week. You're kind enough to let me on last week and this week as well. A mark of your knowledge, mate. Everyone's welcome if they. If they know as much as you do. Here we go. Two for two. James is in Bidderford in Devon. I love Bidderford. Hello. Well, so, question or answer, James? Oh, question, please carry on. So how long do spiders webs stay sticky for? Do they all stay sticky? Do we know that? Well, I've got a web right outside my house underneath a bit of gutter that I left for almost a couple of years now, and there's still, like, loads of little things stuck to it, just as an experiment. But it's not. I mean, I'm not mocking your question, although I am a little surprised it got put through, because the spider that lives on your web will restikify it. There's been nothing living on that for well over a year, which means the bonding agent, whatever it is on, that's very, very unlikely. I don't know. It can't be because I'm. I looked at it this morning. Yeah, but the spider might be tiny or the spider might not live on the web. He might just come and visit and then pick up his spoils. But if you see. What do you mean by sticky as well? I mean because it's. Well, once the spider's left, the dust will settle on the web, so you'll be able to visibly see it a lot better and it will stay like that for a very long time. So the bonding agent on the web must be there. Way off to the spider's one. All right. How long does spiders web stay sticky for? I think they get re. I think they get their stickiness reapplied by the spider on a regular basis. But you're not accepting that, which is your prerogative. That is your. I'm trying to. Why do I. Where do I go? Because I holiday a lot in Devon. I'm just trying to place Bidderford. It's about 10 miles from Barnstable. Yeah. No, I do go there. So when I go to baggy point and places like that. That's in your neck of the woods, isn't it? Yeah. You're not far off. No, I've got it. I like Biddeford a lot. What's the place I go to called where I have that nice fish and chips? Gary knows. He's listening on squires. Squires? Yeah. Where's that? What town's that in? That's in Braunton. Braunton. I get my bronsons and my biddefords, Miss mixed up. That's what's going. There we go. Clearly. Alan Partridge there. Let me get you an answer to your question about. Very good fish and chips, though, in squires, I must say, to your question about spiders. Thank you. James. Martin is in Cheshire. Martin, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, Martin, to the passport question. Oh, yes. So when you leave another country, or majority of countries, they is part of the UK border control. They check you more thoroughly than when you leave the UK, where they just do the cursory check in and check your ticket, whereas when you leave another country, it's part of UK border control. So the person checking the ticket when I leave another country is UK border control? No. So when you check in at the airline, like you would normally do, that's normal. That's a normal airline thing. But then there is, depending on which country you're leaving. But the majority of countries now will give you a more formal. Either, like the other guy said, it'll be a police or immigration control or something like that, will actually check your passport again before you get to make sure that you're not coming to Britain illegally. Correct. So that's the answer. We're not worried about people leaving, but we're worried about people coming in. Correct. Are you suggesting that we control our borders, Martin? We took them back, didn't we? Oh, no, that's that same. Not yet, mate. Someone should go and tell all these fellows in Spanish that we can't control our borders. They're wasting their time checking all these passports. Yeah, it obviously depends on where you're coming to and from. Yes. The majority of the majority of places now will give you a more formal check of your passport. Do we know why? I was told by the chap at Vienna airport a year or so ago that it's part of UK border requirements, but probably because of immigration channels. Because in answer to the question of why we wouldn't do it going out, because people are unlikely to be. It's not going to be part of the, you know, the refugee crisis or the. Or the migration channels are not likely to come through Britain to somewhere else, whereas Britain as a destination would involve coming through other countries. What are your great answer? And I took the Mickey out the question as well. And, yeah, it turns out it was actually a very good question. It is, actually. And it's become more stringent depending on where you go into. You're losing the room now. It can't have become more stringent because we can't control our borders, Martin. Oh, yeah, sorry, I forgot. Pay attention. What are your qualifications? I fly a lot. A lot. How much? I love the way you say he flies a lot. This man flies a lot. And he's not actually happy about it, which, oddly enough, because I love flying and I still get quite schoolboyish about it. But my dad used to stay in hotels a lot as a journalist and I always remember not believing him when he told me that he didn't like staying in hotels because the telegraph, in those days, it was five star all the way. And he'd say, no, son, I'd much rather be coming home and having tea with you. And I'd say, no, you wouldn't. You've got a swimming pool and a jacuzzi in your. In your. But. So you're like that about flying? Yeah, he does wear off. He wears thin. After about ten years, I believe you. Where are you off to next? Portugal. Two weeks time. Mine. There you go, Martin. Round of applause. Thanks very much. Sweet. Coming up, two quarter to one. So we could do with a fancy pants answer to the itchy scratchy question, does nobody know how scallops come into being how do you make scallops? I presume you need a mummy scallop and a baby scallop. But shellfish can be quite interesting in that way. They can be bivalves or androgynous like seahorses. I'm not really in my comfort zone. Now. The best of James O'Brien. I'm sorry to bring seriousness into mystery out, but for my money this story should be huge. You think that the Labour party's got a problem with anti semitism? You'd be right. But hop over to Hungary and have a look at some of the tropes being played out by Viktor Orban's far right government. And crikey, that's anti semitism. Very large. Sajad Karim, the conservative MEP, has been in touch to explain why he abstained on the issue because he quite rightly considers Auburn's regime to be despicable, but felt he couldn't vote for the motion because it goes beyond the remit of the European Union. So he abstained. But I would just briefly read you the comment from the British. Well, for the board of deputies of british Jews on this issue, I note with disappointment from their president, Murray van DER Zil. I note with disappointment that conservative party meps have voted in defense of Hungary's populist right wing government of Viktor Orban. As we have stated previously, we are very alarmed by the messages at the heart of Orbans election campaign, including his comments about muslim invaders calling migrants poison and the vivid anti semitism in the relentless campaign against jewish philanthropist George Soros. This whipping up of prejudice by the hungarian government alongside restrictions on press freedom and the independence of the judiciary must be stopped before it undermines Hungarys democracy irreversibly. It is very concerning that conservative party meps chose to defend Hungarys appalling track record rather than supporting a motion to protect the rule of law. What's happening to the conservative party? You've got Boris Johnson saying f business. Now you've got their European Parliament membership voting against a motion to protect the rule of law. These are things that the Conservatives are supposed to consider sacrosanct. I shall say this only once. Anybody from the conservative party or from the ranks of their supporters who has made hay over the Labour party's real and present problems with anti semitic members, anybody who professed to care about the anti semitism of some of Jeremy, some of Jeremy Corbyn's supporters who is not up in absolute arms about what their own party have just done in the European Parliament, is a hypocrite a liar and a fraud. And you care no more about the welfare of jewish people than you do about the welfare of, off the top of my head, the poor, the disabled or the unemployed. This is incredible, what these conservative meps have done. But Brexit Britain has become such a warped and horrible place that it doesn't garner anything like the attention that it should. In fact, I'd go as far as to suggest that conservative meps voting to essentially support a fascistic regime in the European Parliament will garner less attention from the once great british media than one idiot hurling unjustifiable abuse at Jacob Rees Mogg's children yesterday. Let's get back to mystery. I'll get the smiles back on our faces before 01:00. Sam's in Tottenham. Sam, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why do your toenails grow slower than your fingernails? How do you know that they do? Well, I cut them fewer times a month. Yes, but you're using your fingers more, so you're getting natural wearing down on your fingers. Oh, I use my toenails quite a lot. A lot for walking about. No, no, you're not. You're never going to be using. You're not going to get natural filing on your toenails in the way that you would on your fingernails. I'm not. I mean, I still think even. Even if that is the case, I still think they grow slower. Okay, I'll put it on the board. You've come to the party. They're also different in terms of the thickness. You're sounding weird now, mate. Sorry. No, it's all right. If you've got a thing about toenails, then that's fine. But this, you're not going to smuggle it past me pretending that it's a mystery. Our question. If you get your kicks out of phoning up radio stations and being quite deep and talking about toenails, then, you know, I'm not sure mystery area is the place for you. I'll have to see some other radio. I sure can find myself to the speed of growth question. I want to know no more about your area of expertise. 1253 is the time Andy is in Leicester. Question or answer? Andy. The question. Carry on. Do babies suffer from travel sickness? Mystery has supposed to be silly. You're taking it very seriously. I hope we get you an answer because presumably you want to know as a result of something that's happening in your own life at the moment. It happened on the weekend. Yeah. It just made me think, is that something that does happen to babies? Or is it something that we develop over time from being so used to sitting forward? How old's the baby? Six months. Do you get? I still get travel sickness now, but only when I try and read in a car when I read. And if I sit in the back. And my wife also gets travel sick in the back as well. Yeah. So do babies suffer from. How would we ever know? I'm not sure. We could only know once they'd achieved the power of speech, at which point, arguably, there wouldn't be a baby anymore. This is true. Also, would they know it was travel sickness? Babies are puking up all the time. How are they going to know that this particular puke is specific to the fact that they've got travel sickness and not just the general puke? We've done a longer journey than normal and when we got to a destination, we gave him a feed straight after. He just brought you straight back up. So I just wondered if that was all linked in. I shall try and find out for you, but I would not be surprised if we failed you on this occasion. Okay, I shall do my best, but thank you for the question. 1252, Angela's in Tunbridge Wells. Question or answer? Angela. I have got an answer and it's quite tragic, actually. I listen to you each week and don't normally know the answers, and then you've got one about toenails and I can answer it. I'm having that. I'm having that. Clear the path to the bar. Angela is coming through. Go on then. What can you tell us? Okay. It's to do with vitamin D and the sunshine. So in the winter, toenails don't grow as fast as fingernails anyway, because we wear socks and tend to have our feet covered up. And in the summer they grow much faster because of the sun. Toes are out in the sun, benefiting from vitamin D, fingernails tend to grow faster as well. How do you know this qualification? The only reason I know it is because I was talking to a lady where I have a pedicure done and she was telling me they're so much busier through the summer. It's not just because people like to get their toes out, because the toenails grow faster. So if we lived in, if we never wore shoes, if we lived in like Jamaica, would our toenails grow really fast? Probably, yeah, they're out in the sunshine all the time. The people that wear sandals, like Jeremy Corbyn, has probably got really long, really long toenails. Your research just said that to me. Is that why people that wear sandals. Men that wear. Steals all my jokes. Have horrible long toenails. She steals all my jokes. It's embarrassing. It's really embarrassing. I made that joke in the break. I can't believe she's come out and said it on the radio. Round of applause for Angela. Thank you, Angela. I'm sure we'll talk about something intellectual next time you ring in. Bye bye. Jeff is in common. Jeff, question or answer? It's an answer, James, and it's a privilege to speak to. I've been listening to you since before your girls were born. Well, I say, Jeff, it's a pleasure to talk to you, too. Better late than never. Question, answer. Where I don't start bursting out laughing. Spirit, that is what we're here for, after all. Good man. Fill your boots. It's something that I've done myself. Really? Yeah, and it's nothing weird. It's to extract the SAP from a birch tree, or any tree. Put a batter, basically, birch trees, to make birch SAP wine. Oh, you ferment it, do you? You actually ferment it? Yeah, it ferments quite naturally. And again, you. You're advised, if you ever read a winemaking book, you're advised to never take more than one gallon from a tree. You take it about March time, when the SAP is running in the tree, and you drill a hole about an inch diameter in the tree, you draw the actual SAP off. But then you've got to plug that tree, because otherwise the tree will bleed. Oh, you don't want that. I mean, this was a practice that went back to the. I would say the eastern european countries, Russia, Poland, places like that. What are you basing now? Because this is what your round of applause hinges on, Jeff, what makes you think that's where it started, where it originated from? Yeah. I'm going to give you a round of applause because you're so nice. Well, if you want an actual time, James, when was wine first made? If anybody could answer that question, then you'd have the answer to Burt's. That one wine o'clock, several hundred years. I know. In Russia, mate. I'm going to give you a round of applause, Jeff. There it is. I could listen to you all day, but I want to squeeze in a couple of more answers before you go. What does it taste like? Burnt SAP wine. Briefly, I would say it's a similar thing with the maple syrup. Now, what does the wine taste like? What does it taste like? It's a bit like a Sauvignon blanc, is it really? Yes. Cheeky. Cheeky and a little bit flinty. Yeah, possibly. Soft on the palate. Top note of petrol, hint of BlackBerry. Depends on your palate. I prefer white wine soda. Soft on the palate. Good man, Jeff, what a lovely answer. Give him another round of applause. What a lovely man. Thank you, Jeff. Patrick's in Milton Keynes, briefly. Patrick, question or answer for your spider web question? How long does it stay sticky? Silly question. So it would stay sticky for as long as the spider web is intact and the spiderwebs can last for as long as it's not touched, basically. So if someone doesn't hoover it up or move it, it should stay there for as long as it's there. So not a silly question, then? Not a silly question, no. Round of applause for Patrick very quickly. Marty is in Belfast. Question or answer, Marty? First time ever, James. I have an answer. Go on, then. As for the scallops. How do they do it? How do they do it? They actually have known. Touchy. They reproduce by a process known as spawning, as do a lot of other fish. The males release their sperm into the water at the same time as the females release their eggs and the sperm floats through the water and fertilizes the eggs. Qualifications? The godfather of all things natural, David Attenborough's blue planet many years ago. Beautiful work. Yeah, I should have known that. Not as sexy as I hoped. Here's Sheila Fogarty. But there's artistry in it all the same, isn't there? From somewhere. Thank you very much, James. If you enjoyed this podcast, hear James O'Brien live every weekday morning from ten, only on LBC.