Why 'Luke' warm? - 28 Jan 16

Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Three minutes after twelve is the time. Don't take my word for it. Listen to Jill. Dear James, I'm so excited. My office moved to a new building before Christmas and we have virtually no windows and very, very poor radio reception. We have to agile work or hot desk. And today I got the last desk available where no one wants to sit, but hooray. It turns out I can get LBC, so can listen to mystery hour, albeit a bit crackly. Oh, I've missed you, James. Make it a good one. Love, Jill. Jill. I'm only as good as the call as I get. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number. You need to be one of them if you're new to this program. What do you think Jill is getting so excited about? Well, I'll tell you. It is the only item on british radio that comes with guarantees. And those guarantees include this. By 01:00 today, you will know more than you do now. You really will. May not be knowledge that you're grateful for, may not be knowledge that you find in any way remotely useful, but it will be knowledge which you don't currently have. And the second guarantee? It's very rare that a whole mystery hour passes without at least one lol moment, one laugh out loud. Genuinely, it's usually not provided by me. It's usually provided by you, sometimes intentionally. So those are the guarantees I can offer to you today. What? Excuse me, what mysteries are we going to solve? We'll find out. Imminently we solve them. I'll just explain to anybody who is new to the feature. Here it is. You have bubbling away somewhere in the back of your brain a question that you know must be answerable. You could perhaps have found out the answer by going to the library and digging out some encyclopedias or googling it, looking it up online. It's perfectly plausible. If you know it's got an answer, you probably know that you could find it, but you don't want to. Or you haven't got around to it, or you've been saving it for me, or it's a little bit harder to pin down precisely than that. You wouldn't know exactly how to phrase the question in order to get it answered by an Internet search engine. But somebody listening to this program will know the answer. So what you do, you give me a ring on zero. 345-606-0973 you ask me the question. If it is not boring, you will get through. Caroline and Victoria work harder during this hour than anybody in british radio works elsewhere ever. But that job is rendered a hell of a lot easier if we avoid dullness like the plague. So if it's a question about, I don't know, roundabouts or roads, it will almost always be construed too dull for inclusion. Here's a good test. Ask yourself this. Ask yourself the question and then ask yourself, will anyone except me really be interested in the answer to that question? And if you think, yeah, I reckon everybody will be, then ring in. If you think, do you know what, James? On reflection, you're right. Just me and Auntie Doris really would be interested in the answer. Then leave it where you are. Repetition is our responsibility. We've been dropping the ball a bit on that lately. I don't know why short term memory is not what it used to be, but the question that you ask, if it's been asked recently, and I can remember answering it, it won't come through. Relatively new production team at the moment, which is why the repetition bar has been set quite low lately. But we're all minded to improve that recently. It means I have to concentrate. So remind me of that if it sounds like I'm drifting. Number done it. Email and text and tweet not really active this hour because it's all about the phones. If you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer. Zero 345-606-0973 we can only do one question a week on the origin of a phrase or a word, so we've already got one on the board. Don't ring in with that. We can only do one a week. Otherwise. Oddly, the whole show turns into questions about the origins of phrases and the origins of words, and it's not quite as interesting as you think it would be. How do I know that? Because we've tried it. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. The phone lines are open. If you hear me say the number, it means I've got a phone line free. And before we go to Matt, who's in Kettering, an awful lot of you are very keen to hear the end of that war game story that David was telling us just before the news, before being rudely interrupted. So I can tell you that while they were up for the war game with their boy on a double scholarship at Eton and a bunch of mud splattered boys walked past, absolutely covered from head to toe. One of them turned out to be Prince William, or possibly Prince Harry. I didn't have time to double check, but that was the end of the story. Should we crack on? Yeah. You ready? You ready? You ready? I'm ready. Matt in Kettering are you ready? Yes I am James. Yeah, let's do it. Um. Yeah. Brilliant James. Great applause for you. Um, I've been meaning to nail this one to you for the last couple of months. Um when me and my other half, uh, we're washing, washing the baby, uh yes. She'll always. She'll always say to me make sure you run the water lukewarm Luke. And I'll say yeah no problem. Yeah, no problem. Now I don't want to sound silly but why Luke? I've always wondered. I always wind her up and I say well why not Mark or James or John? John. Warm you know. Anyway, I mean my dad used to say it to me before he passed when I was little, you know, make sure he started lukewarm. So yeah all right, no problem. Why on earth look warm James? Well I. First, 1st things first. I doubt it's linked to the christian name. It's probably got a different answer to that so. Although personally I quite like the idea of you running the water James warm or Matt warm. That's got a nice ring to it. Love it. Yeah I can see why now you come to mention it. I hope we get an answer. It's going to be bugging us all for months now Matt. How old's the little one? He's 14 months mate. Is he your first? Can you remember what a full night's sleep is like? Yeah it does. He comes back around again I promise you. Take care Matt. It's a lovely question origins of the phrase lukewarm. But remember we can only do one origins of a phrase a week. Maybe I'll allow another one on when we've answered that one. Is that fair? Is that fair? Is that reason? I think that's fair. Okay, so when we got an answer to that one we'll stick another one on. Steve is in bury St. Edmund. Steve, question or answer? Question James. Go on then. I want to know what our. When we say ouch, ouch. When we hurt ourselves, is it learned? No one actually says ouch do they? I do. No you don't. You go ow. Yeah okay but it's ouch. No you don't put the ch on the end. I do. You don't. I do. Are you on your own at the moment? Yes. I was going to ask someone to punch you. Then we could test your theory no doubt during the day. Yeah. What's going on? Is it. Is it learned behavior or it was made up. That is, somebody wrote it down first. I like that as a question because I do genuinely say it and I want to know whether I saw it written down. It is. I mean, oddly enough, after I just laid the law down. And this isn't a criticism of you, but it could turn into an origin of a word question. This. And I've just said, I don't want any more origin of words questions. Oh. What? It's not really, though, is it? Because gone. It's more to do with feelings and pain than the origin of a word. All right, I'll let you have that. What are the other examples? We used to do a great little riff on words that you only ever see in newspaper reports, like romp and love nest. They're words that no one ever uses in real life. So I wonder if cartoons are the same when they write. You remember the old batmans when they write kapow. Yes. This is what I'm thinking of. Yeah. That's why you could be onto something there. Ouch. Ouch. They got it from us naturally saying it, and then they wrote it down rather than vice versa. I don't think the ch occurs naturally. That's why you and I, you're a chist and I'm a purist. I'm an aoist and you're an ouchist. I think the ch is a human invention, but the ow is probably reflex. Let's see. Let's find out. Who's going to know that, though? I don't know. I don't know. Live in hope, eh, Steve? Great stuff. David is in Highbury. David, question or answer? Hello, James. I've got a question for you. Yes? Why is the musical instrument a recorder? Why is it called a recorder? It doesn't record anything. When it was invented, there was nothing that could record it. So where did it get the name recorder from? That's another origin of what's going on here. Is anybody actually listening to me today? The name of the musical instrument is a word. So I just spent five minutes saying only one question on the origin of words and phrases, and we now want to know the origin of lukewarm, the origin of ouch. And the origin of recorder. James? Everything is a word, isn't it? Come on. No. Okay. For example, that wasn't a word. Did they have a ch on the end of it? We'll find out. So is it not to do with the chords in music? I don't know. That's why I phoned you. So it was a cordo. Something you plan on? I can't even get close to that one. Why is a recorder called a recorder? Is ouch. As an expression of pain, learned behavior. And what's the origin of the phrase lukewarm there? I've made it sound like they're not all etymological inquiries, haven't I? Why do you want to know? I was listening to an advert on your radio station a little while ago, and I'm thinking to myself, why does only school children learn to play the recorder? And then I thought, why is it even called a recorder? So that's. That's where it came from. No, you're on. I'll get you an answer. We get you an answer. Or at least we'll try an interesting, interesting chatter reaching me from the strat, from the Internet. Is that french people? It's a bit like we had some french visitors just before Christmas. It was a my children's primary school. We gave away a sort of visit as part of an auction, and the family came and they were french and was talking about when I was at school. Cockerels go. When I got taught French at school, french cockerels go, Coquerico, Coqueri. Of course they don't. They make exactly the same noise as english cockerels do. But Coquerico, cockatoo doo doo. I'm learning that in France, apparently, french people go, ou yah. Oh ye. Rather than going, ouch or ow. So that would suggest there is a little bit more wisdom to that question than we initially thought. Next in Southgate. Next question or answer question, please. James. Yes. Right. I want to know why, on a roulette wheel, when you add up all the numbers together, why do they come to six six six. If you've played roulette in your lifetime and you've got a fortune like myself and like friends around me, you know why it's such an evil game and they add up if you add them together to 666, and I want to know why. Have you been on hold since 11:00 yesterday when we were doing conspiracy theories? No. No. So you are suspecting there might be a demonic explanation for this and that the dark Lord Beelzebub may be responsible for roulette wheels? Yes, I do. Yes. All right. What. Remind us what the roulette wheel goes up to. It goes up to 36. And that's including up to basics. From one to basics. Forget the zero. If you add them all together, they come to 666. So 36 plus 35 plus 34. And then it's all times two. Because you've got red and black. Or is it? Is it. No, no, no. Just add them all together. So the reds and the blacks. So you add all the reds and all the blacks together and it comes up to 666. Correct. And I'm going to take your word for that, please. Okay. Well, I mean, the simple answer is because there are 36 numbers on the roulette wheel. Have you ever played roulette? Are you a gambler in any way, shape or form? Yes, you are. Have you played roulette? Yes. You have? Yes. I will take it. Yet you're not. You've never gambled? I've never. I've never lost more than. I've never lost more than I can afford to lose. No, thank God. Okay, well, I've got friends who have lost millions. Yeah. And I don't know. And I don't know anyone, but no one's going to be able to ring in and say, yeah, you're right, it's the dark Lord Beelzebub's favorite game. You maybe don't know that, do you? Well, I'm pretty confident, all right, someone might ring in and say, it's the dark Lord Beelzebub's favorite game, but it's highly unlikely they'll be able to go definitive. I know, I agree. But listen, I've been playing for years and I've done an absolute fortune. And so friends of mine. Stop playing. Stop playing. That's the first thing to say. No, forget that. Listen, I've got all my money. I've got none left. I've given up gambling. Why? I've got no money left. Fair enough. Correct. That's my story. Why do the numbers add up to 660? All right, I'll get you an answer. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Mind how you go. It's 12, 16, 22 minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. And it is, of course, your weekly opportunity to get answers to the questions you can't get answered anywhere else. For example, what's the origin of the phrase lukewarm is ouch learned behaviour? I'm leaning towards, yes, it must be because other nationalities seem to say ouch or express a pain in slightly different ways. Why is the musical instrument, the recorder, called a recorder, given that it doesn't record anything? And why do the numbers on a roulette wheel add up to 666? I think you can see the direction in which Nick was leading us there. But whether or not anybody. I don't know, might be some sort of historical explanation for it that does invoke the dark Lord Beelzebub. We will find out. You can add your own questions to that list by dialing zero 345-606-0973 and there should be a line free as soon as we finish with Mike in Dartford. Mike, question or answer? Answer, James. Go on. Basically, the origins of lukewarm from memory becomes from the 14th or 15th century, when it used to be Luke, spelled l e w k, which in Old English used to mean tepid. Where are you getting this from? Well, basically, when I was at school some ten years ago, we had a. An re teacher called the Reverend Collier, who was absolutely mad. Yeah, but brilliant. And when he had a debate in class, he used to go off on these massive anecdotes about random stuff just because he felt it was funny. And that's one of the things he started rambling on about. And it's just always stuck with me until that question just came on. Oh, well, good old. What was his name again? Reverend Radley. Reverend Collier. Reverend Collier. Where'd I get Radley from? I'm going mad. Reverend Collier. His work obviously still reaches beyond the. Over the years, through the generations, and remains relevant. So l e w k, meaning mile. So do we know why? It's just. No idea. No, it's just been changed over the years. Probably looking at it. It's probably scandinavian in some way, isn't it? Or old English, you know, sort of one of those germanic words. Over the years, it's gone from being l a w k. It's just being spelled Lucas, as we say it in the name. And your qualifications are. Reverend Collier. Yes. Round of applause. Great play, Mike. Nicely done. 1224 is the time Charles is in Soho. Charles. Question or answer? If I answer, but I'm not. Absolutely. I was pretty certain because you was clueing me onto it with me recorder. Yeah. Because I think it's like. Would probably read Calder, but they're not reads, I don't think. Now I'm not certain. I've got shit. I've got to be honest, I'm not certain they might have been reads. I mean, it's. It's an old instrument. Henry VIII played it. Yeah. It probably means it probably is the read, but say. I couldn't say I know it. Absolutely. You silly man. You've come on and shoot. Shot your own fox. I can't give you a round of applause now, even if you're right, because you've sort of made it sound all doubtful. Honest guy. See, that's your first mistake. You're never gonna, you know, you're never gonna get anywhere in this world if you're honest, Charles. Yeah. Except on mystery. No, I can't. I can't. No, I can't. I can't. I can't. You've got the power by the power of Grayskull. I have the power by the power. So the reed, as in on an oboe or a clarinet, where you have that thing on the. And why Corda, then? Why Corda? Because you play chords on the musical chord. Yeah. You're playing chords. I. I'm almost certain that back in the day, you wouldn't have been able to make a molded, plastic mouthpiece, would you? So you would have definitely needed a read. You needed a read. You needed a read. What did you need? You need a read. If it's wrong, will you. Will you give it back? Yeah. Yeah. I thought you were honest. A random, flawed reed corner. I'm going with that. But only because Charles is so charming and at least mistry. I can be a place where honesty is rewarded. Ron's in Wormley in Hertfordshire. Wrong question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. How can I tell the age of a tree without sawing it down and counts in the rings? Well, you plant it. Pardon? You plant it and then just wait. Oh, you silly man. That is an answer to your question, Ron. You've got to wait for donkey's years to find out. Not donkey's years. A very specific number of years. If, for example, you've been waiting for 17 years, you will know definitively that that tree is 17 years old. You mean a part. You mean an old. You mean an established tree? Yes, I guess I mean an established tree. Is there any way you can. You can. You can age an established tree? There must be, because they tell us that you, tree in that graveyard in Kent somewhere is like 600 years old, don't they? Or something. Correct. Yes. And they can't have chopped it down to count the rings, have they? They certainly haven't. I like that, actually. Why do you want to know? Have you got an old tree in your garden? Yes, I have two. How old are they? They're as old as you. And the rest we should. Hopefully, we can find out for you. There's. Oddly enough, a lot of people have the program on. They're up trees. That's the strangest thing I've ever said. But we do. I have a. I have a disproportionate number of emails from tree surgeons after the show because they can't email me while they're up a tree. So they often cast as you could with a smartphone. But I'd rather you didn't, Ron. We will find out. Lewis is in surbiton. Lewis, question or answer? I've got a question, James. Yes. Okay. Anyways, I was wondering, if someone's blind from birth, do they perceive images in their dreams? Not in the sense that you and I would understand. They dream that the visual images that they see, ordinarily, they can't ever know what, for example, what a church looks like. We've done. We've done this one before. But I don't think I should take the archive. I can find these things. Oh, really? You check the archive? Yeah. I even went that far. James, you deserve some sort of badge. I know, right. All right, I'll leave it on the board, then, because, again, sounds like I'm just. Every question I get, I'm claiming that I have a disproportionate following among people that are relevant to the question. So I'm going to go now from tree surgeons to the visually impaired. I know that I do have a lot of blind listeners, so hopefully one of them will be able to ring in blind from birth, though. So you've never had a visual recognition, if you like, type scenario, you don't know what a bus looks like. Can you dream about a bus? It's a good question. I'm surprised that you couldn't find it in the archive. But I believe you, Lewis. Take care. What do you want to know? Just curiosity. Just pure curiosity. Fair enough. Fair enough. Luke is in Christchurch. Is it warm? Hi there. Hello, Luke. Question. Nice to speak to Pascal. And 666, why does the roulette wheel, all the numbers on it, add up to 666? The number of the beast. It's a supreme joke. Pascal invented probability. He also invented gambling. Right? And if you multiply 36 by 37 and divide it by two, right, you will get 666. It was a joke. If you do what if you. Times 30? If you add what? Say that again. Well, if you got a calculator. Yeah, yeah. So if you multiply 36 by 37 and divide it by two, it's the sum of the sequence of numbers and you will get 666. And he was an absolute mathematical genius. And this was a joke. He invented gambling, essentially. I don't know, I don't see where the link is. I think I see the observation. And Pascal, and mathematicians love doing things that are actually. I will use this word he was religious as well. Right. And I think it was a joke on. You think it was or you know it was. I know it from the numbers. I don't have the historical context. Historical contact. You could have read a book. You don't need to know Pascal. So you're right. I've checked. 36 times 37 divided by two is 666. And 36 plus. 35 plus. And he was. He was the inventor of gambling, essentially. Of course, he wasn't the inventor of gambling, you prune. Yeah, he was. Don't be ridiculous. People bet on chariot races. No, not with Romans and stuff like that, you know. But what do you mean, not with Romans and stuff like that? People gamble about how long it takes a drop of rain to dribble down a piece of wood. You can't say Pascal. When was Pascal? Around 17th century. He was a genius. Well, all right, he was a genius, but he didn't invent gambling. But if you look at those numbers, right, I bet you 50 quid Pascal did not invent gambling. I bet you 100 quid he did. Well, you're on. Send me the check now. I raised it to 200. I can't give you a round of applause for this loop, even if you're close to the truth. No, you've ruined it. We're saying he invented gambling. Let me just. Just one woman. 30 more seconds, okay? 29. He. He was obsessed with sequences and numbers. He was right, yeah. And having studied mathematics, Pascal worked out how all sorts of sequences of numbers worked. So for him, that was just a joke, you know, he just thought, that is just lovely. And he was in France when they produced, you know, the gambling places and all that. He was. He was actually hired. You crashed the news. It's 1230. What are you doing with. The. People are waiting for the news and you're still wobbling on. Blaise Pascal did invent roulette. I actually knew that. But he did not invent gambling. And whether or not that doesn't. Sorry, mate, I've got to go to the news. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 1237 is the time. Why do we say ouch? We've done the 666 question, but it wasn't quite good enough. There's definitely something there. It's involving Pascal. He did invent the roulette wheel. He was a huge fan of sequences. It's true that 36 times 37 divided by two is 666 and that 36 plus 35, bada bada ba is also 666. But why. Why do all the numbers on the roulette wheel add up to 666. We haven't got the definitive answer, with apologies to Luke. Speaking of Luke, we did get a definitive answer as to why Luke. Warm is a thing, but we don't know how you can work out the age of a tree without chopping it down and counting the rings. If you'd like to add any questions to that now. Quite short list. The number you need is 0345-6060 Jim's in Holborn. Jim, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, Jim. The rings in the tree, how do you count them? Okay. What they use is a long piece of metal. It's circular and it's got a serrated edge at the beginning of it. And they put it on a drill, a hand drill like the old carpenters used to use to carve a hole out a piece of wood. And they start on the outside, naturally, where the bark is, and they start turning it. Eventually that goes through. They use a length which will take them up to halfway. They measure the width of the tree and then they work it out what piece of metal they're going to use and then they drill it in and then they just ease it out. And inside that strip of metal is the piece of wood. It's similar to what cheese makers use when they put that long piece of metal in and twist it to take out the piece of cheese. Qualifications? I've got a friend who works in the council. Well, what has. No, no, I went. Somebody gave that answer a few weeks, a few months ago and I just roared out laughing. Anyway, no, you're better at this than I am. You're right. I've got a friend who works at the council. Do you remember when he said it? Go on. Anyway, down near Gouthurst in Kent, there's a place called Bedford Pine somewhere, which is a big forestry place. When we were kids, my parents had a cottage on a farm there and my dad took us up there, my sister and I. And there were some people working on trees and we were looking and I just standing there, my dad asked what we're doing and that's what they were doing. Oh, I love that. I've got. I've got someone on the other line with a different answer, apparently. But I've got to stay where you are, Jim, because I'm leaning towards you at this point. I'm just going to find out what Martin Mirvan has to say. Martin, question or answer? Carry on. How to estimate the age of a tree without cutting it down or killing it by putting a cutter into it to pull out rings, as the other gentleman is describing. I have a tree preservation order on a large oak tree in my garden. And the tree preservation officer came and he had a special tape measure which he wrapped around the thickest part of the tree, and that was actually divided by something like two and a quarter inches or two 2. From that, he was able to divide the circumference by this figure of 2.4 or whatever. And he estimated my tree at 450 years old, which. That's fantastic to have such an old tree, but that wouldn't work for other trees. Why not? Because. Well, he said it was other trees don't grow. You asked me a question. Can I answer it? The reason it wouldn't work for other trees is that not all trees grow at the same rate as oak trees. Yes, but he didn't pull out of his pocket a tape measure that was said. This one's for oak trees. It was a standardised measure. Yes, but it can't be standardised, can it? Because I've got a silver birch in my back garden that is never, ever, ever in a billion years going to be as fat as an oak tree. Well, I suggest you get in touch with the tree preservation officer for the Molten Hills district council and ask him why he's using. But I don't need to, because I understand why your answer is not right. If you're saying that divide by 2.4, whatever tree it is, it can't possibly be the case that that would work, because not all trees expand at the same rate. Well, he said it does. He's a qualified ARPU. Okay, let me explain this to you again. All right? Here is a tree that is 10 meters wide. You divide it by two and a quarter, and the answer will be four. And that tree grows at a rate of 2.5 meters per year. So you know that it's four years old. Right. Here is another tree that's 100 years old, but it's only six inches wide. You divide that by 2.4 and the answer you get is a fraction. That is why your answer is wrong. Perhaps he looks. Oh, my lord, it's 1242. Jim. Guess what? Round of applause. Thank you. I shouldn't do that. Every time I do that, it comes back to bite me on the backside. Zach's in Minnesota. Don't bite me on the backside. Zach. Have you got a question or an answer? Question for you, James. Carry on, Zach. Minnesota. Crikey, I should make a fuss. Woo. Now, carry on. Yeah, I'd like to know if human evolution has either slowed or stopped with the invention of modern medicine and all the other things that we have at our disposal, why might it have done? Well, just me thinking in my head, I wonder if traits and other things that normally would, and I hate to. I don't know how to put this delicately, but know. Kill off the week, right? Yeah, that's right. That was delicate. Kill off the week. Yeah. If they are otherwise alive and reproducing when otherwise they would be dead thousands of years ago. So I wonder if that's. It's a big question. I mean, it depends, doesn't it? Because you're right. If. If you are speaking of a pre chemotherapy era, then anybody who got cancer would have died. But I don't know if it would have compromised evolution because we would still get cancer. It's not. I suppose there is a degree of heredity to it. My fear is the question is too big to actually answer, but I shall try. The medicine has medicine. It definitely hasn't stopped evolution and there's no way we could establish even if it had, because the changes are so incremental over generations. But has medicine affected evolution? Yeah. Maybe the good professor can help us out. Stop bigging him up. Actually, I don't think he gone last week. So. Yeah, maybe the good professor. A lot of people in Minnesota listening to mystery out there, Zachary. Lie to me, lie to me. I'm sure I'll be the only one. No, you didn't. Oh, you did. Lie to me. It's 1244. Nikki's in Cardiff. Nicky, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Nikki, do blind people see images in their dreams? If they're born blind, yes. No qualifications physically see them. Because if you've never actually seen anything, if you're born blind, you can't actually know what anything specifically looks like. No, but they can. They feel things, they smell things, they taste things and there's a lot of talking as well. So all of the senses that you possess kick in in your dreams, but the sense that you don't possess doesn't. I'm going to ask what your qualifications are, but I think. I think I can probably work it out. Unborn, blind. No way. Shut the front door. I did not see that cover. It was a brilliant answer. Do you get our stuff like that a lot? Yeah, taxi drivers do as well. And the other one is. Oh, you're very lucky because you were born blind, so you can't miss anything. But I have a lovely guide dog called James and he helps me round. Oh, I love that. Round of applause for you. Thank you. 1245 grr, says this text, it's impossible to get through. I want a stewards inquiry on the recorder question. Do you know there's nothing I can do about it? Try and grab the phone line that Nicky's just vacated. And I'm happy to have a stewards inquiry, although I'm not taking back his round of applause because he got it for being honest as well as for being apparently right. 1245 is the time. Terminus to one is the time. Let's crack on. Professor Hal is here from the University of Brighton. Professor Hale. For those of you new to this feature, is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, and in many ways, the patron saint of mystery. Our questioner answer, Howe. Hello, James. I would like to talk a little bit about the evolution question. Okay. Okay. So first and foremost is actually. So it's for people who have just. Medicine affected evolution. Has it slowed it down or stopped it? Yes. Okay. We have to be really sort of delicate about this question, because there are some little ethical things hidden in it. Nature is hostile and not as hostile as Twitter. No, I suppose not. It is not as hostile as Twitter. Nature is indeed hostile, and therefore any mutation which causes an individual to have a certain advantage will allow that individual to reproduce more than its peers. Yes. And therefore the kind of. I mean, writing down the ways of saying it, if we obviate the need to overcome the hostility of nature by, for example, medicine, we're actually preventing natural selection. Yes. That was. That's what he was driving at, isn't it? Zack in Minnesota. I agree with him. I think that evolution is a very passive thing. It's not an active thing. Hand pushing it along. It happens by chance and as a sort of nice way of finishing off. Did you know that Darwin never, ever coined the phrase survival of the fittest? It was sort of coined as a nod to what he said. And he nearly got scooped because someone else was independently developing the theory and he sat on his results for ten years and he just had to publish them in a rush, by gentleman's agreement. I did know that, actually. Yes, only because I studied it at college and I was trying to remember the name of the bloke who actually sort of was ahead of Darwin on it, just so that I could be even more smug than usual. But I forgot. So that's a big relief for everybody. But anyway, no, you shouldn't feel deflated. It's not just about me. Mystery air it's about the hundreds of thousands of people listening. Million and 44 million actually now have access to everyone who ever gets on a British Airways plane. You'll be famous soon. How. Thank you, James. You're very welcome. Round of applause. So it would. Yeah, have an effect. Of course it would, but not in the sense that would make anybody go, we need to get rid of medicine because evolution. Suffering. Bev's in Camberwell. Bev, question or answer? Question, please, James. Yes, bev. Okay. Postcodes. Oh, we've just done evolution. We've done evolution. We've done the number of the beast. We've been chopping down trees. You want to talk about post codes? When I was looking at a tree whilst I was asking the question, 44 million British Airways customers could be listening to the good calls this week. I don't think this is going to be one of them, is it? If you're some sort. If you're from Saudi Arabia, you're sitting on a plane. They don't even know what postcodes are. Well, there you go. When they arrive in London or wherever, they're going to think, all right, why is southeast one not next to southeast two? Or why is south west ten like Chelsea and then you've got Chelsea, Southwest ten, Battersea. No, southwest eleven is Battersea, which is, incidentally next to each other, but they don't all link in because then you've got Sloan. I lived in south west town. I'm sure I lived in bat. No. Was that when I lived in Chelsea? Was that when I lived in Batterson? I don't know. I don't know. What do you want to know? What is the link with the postcode? Oh, sorry, I nodded off. Tell me again, what do you want to know? So you know the postcode. You've got like, just say southwest one, southwest two, southwest three. They're not next to each other. So what are they linked to? Somebody was saying it was like the. They were in alphabetical order, but that doesn't make sense because that's in south west eleven. Yeah, but it might not have been Battersea, Chelsea, south west ten. Yeah, you're right, actually. So Chelsea is south west ten. That's sort of the Fulham Road bit, isn't it? I know. Battersea south west eleven and then right next to, like, south south east five, we've got southeast 24. How do. What is the link? There must be some sort of link as to why they've done it like that. Is that. I'll find that next week when I have, please don't. Please don't phone back next week. I don't care. I really don't care. What am I supposed to do? Lower my standards? Just because you're a first time? Why do people tell? I mean, for heaven's sake, bev, your first time call. How many mystery hours have you listened to? I've listened to loads of them. The guy with the dog that was dying. The dog was. That was a moment, wasn't it? That was a magical moment. I was crying. Yeah. So then you know what a good call sounds like. Yes, I do. And yet you made this one. Yeah, I know, I know. But I'm interested. What was it about? The postcode. All right, because there must be some sort of correlation or link. There is. And I've been sort of stringing you along for a bit in the hope that I'd remember what it was, but it's not working for me. Oh, so you don't get around? No. I haven't had a round of applause all week, have I? Oh, Lordy. Oh, that's even worse. There you are, Jamie. There you go. I try to get you an answer. Someone do that boring thing about postcodes again, will you? Francis is in horn church. Question or answer? Francis. I've got an answer for you. Oh, yes. It's about the recorder. Are you calling a steward's inquiry on this, then? Yes, I am, actually, because your other caller got it wrong. All right, go on. Okay. Yeah. Well, the recorder is one of the few instruments in the woodwind section of the orchestra that doesn't have a reed. It is now. It is now. But it probably had reads back in the day, didn't it? No, it never had a read. And when they were made, they had a whistle mouthpiece that was sort of based on the school whistle that they use in the playground now. Oh, okay. Fair enough. Yes. You could whittle it, couldn't you, out of wood. You could do that. Put your fingers over the holes. It would still make a sound. Why? The children learn them because they're so easy. Yes. So why is it called a recorder, then? Oh, now, that comes from. It's a latin word called ricardare, and the rebit means to play it again. And the core bit means that you play it by heart. And so as a music teacher and say to my students, I want you to learn this off by heart. They would play the recorders, but they didn't have any music, and they would have to go over and over and over again. So it does actually mean. So it is a recorder in a way as well. So you're recording the music in your memory. Sorry. That's where the word meaning recall does come from in the 20th century. That's how it. That's where it comes from. What about rewind the crowd, say bo selector. Do we know where that comes from? No, I'm sorry, I don't know that one. All right. What are your qualifications? I'm a music teacher and it's earned you this. Hang on a minute. A music teacher who's not familiar with Craig David's breakthrough track? No, I listen to good music. I pity your pupils, Francis. Have a lovely day. 1258. David's in Hackney. Last word. Okay, we're gonna maybe squeeze in a couple more. David. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. I've been waiting for this to come up for ages. Just quick, fill your boots, mate. We're gonna run out of time. You're gonna have to give me more than that. How come Battersea comes after Chelsea, then? No, no, I'll give you these, for example. I don't want to go from e one's all gate e two three. E three is Bowie, four is 35. They're all alphabetical. And then they might have had to add some extra bits later or as areas got developed. So sw tenby, West Brompton, Chelsea would be sw three, Battersea's sw eleven. But it won't be battersea, it'll be something like Lambeth or not Lambeth, but it's in the middle, like the last one on the qualifications. I'm a lawyer. Hang on, I'll take the first bit, not the second bit. That's my job. There we go. That's it for another day. Please do tune in to Ian Dale this afternoon when he'll be looking at the challenges of launching a new business within a crowded marketplace. Could a new supermarket stand a chance of competing with the established nationwide giants? He'll be speaking to the director of the new online only supermarket, Eatify, who are aiming to do just that. So find out more with Ian Dale at drive this afternoon from four on LBC. This afternoon from one on LBC. It is, as ever, Sheila Fogarty. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from 10:00 thank you very much, James. Fresh from trouble yesterday over this, they met with a bunch of migrants in Calais. They said they could all come to Britain. Today, the prime minister tells us the UK will take more child refugees. We don't know how many, but we do know this most will be from camps in Jordan and other parts of the Middle East, a much smaller number who are alone in Europe, but.