Fresh water and salt water fish?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Hello. Four minutes after twelve is the time and mystery hour is upon us. Could we call it the most popular feature on the most popular talk show in the whole of UK commercial radio? Do you know, I think we jolly well could and we just did. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction only available ordinarily here, you can't get it anywhere else. It's a bit more fun than it sounds at first glance. In fact, it's so much fun that it spawned its own board game about which more later. But if you have a question that needs an answer and you're fairly confident that there must be an answer to it, but you're damned if you can work out what it is, then ring 0345-6060 and nine seven three and ask your question. If you know the answer to the question that someone else asks, then wait for it. Ring zero 345-606-0973 and answer the question. Don't look anything up. Whatever you do, don't look anything up. That's the only rule in place. And try to be brilliant. That's what Keith says to me every morning before we come on air. I have got a prize. Now, I don't know if it's been a while since you tuned in, but there are no prizes or one prize, one a week. And it is a box fresh mystery out board game. Absolutely brilliant. Just riddled with five star reviews. It's just so much fun. Fun for all the family. In fact, some families, in order to get the younger children involved, have slightly changed the rules a bit. You don't have to come up with your own fake answer. You can just use the correct answer and the wrong answer that we provide for every question. But if you make what I consider to be the finest contribution of the day and the management's decision is final, then you will win a mystery hour board game. You can buy them, of course, at mysteryour dot co dot UK and in an increasing number of quality retailers. And you can find the full terms and conditions for this very grown up and completely professional competition at LBC dot co dot UK. What's not to like? Should we start with Lee, who's in Carlisle? Lee. Question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. I've wanted to know this for a long time. Why do people rub their hands together in anticipation? You know, any. Anything from a bond villain to my granddad before his Sunday lunch? I think I know this. Go on, then. I'm just having a sip of green tea which is my equivalent of rubbing my hands together before I weigh in. I think it's because if you were doing manual labor and you had cold hands you warm them up a bit before you start, right. And it hurts a bit less. Well, what's that got to do with eating Sunday lunch? Well, not a lot at first glance, but it has become nothing. Well, I mean, you could say nothing. It depends how big the cutlery is and how cold your hands are when you start. But it's become a kind of psychological programming that that is what we do in anticipation of a challenge or something that we are, you know, gearing ourselves up for girding our loins. You see, you are clutching at straws. I'm not clutching at straws, mate. It's just an absolute humdinger of an answer. And I bet you. I bet you rubbed your hands together before. You're damn right I did. I'm thinking of cricket as a kid. If I was feeling out. If I was fielding out in the. In the long. In the deep and that those balls used to hurt. Lee, do you remember, did you ever play cricket? I did, yeah. I took a couple on the chin. He's a lot more brutal than people realize. But if you're fielding in the deep and the ball is coming towards you and your whole life slows down your whole life flashes before you and everything's inside. I used to rub my hands together like Billy O before I caught it so it didn't sting my hands so much. Stimulates blood flow. I still think it should be put to the people. Yeah, I'm gonna put it to the people. I can tell you're not gonna accept that. I had a funny feeling. Go down the work, stimulate blood flow. Right. Well, what about when the bond villain's rubbing his hand together before one of his henchmen cuts bonding off with a laser? He's still rubbing his. He's not lifting a finger. He's not lifting a finger. He's got. He's got his henchmen to do that for him. But he is psychologically programmed before a chat. Anyway, I'll put it on the board. All right? Yeah, no time, mate. Have a great day. 1208 is the time. Joe's in Norwich. Joe. Question or answer? It's a. It's a question. Carry on. Well, the question is you get hot. Bloodied animals like ourselves. Yeah, bloodied animals like lizards. Yeah, but what is the mechanism keeping us warm blooded? What do you mean? Well, we're warm blooded. We keep at a certain temperature. Yeah. Where lizards have to line the sun to get warm and insects have to line the sun to get warm. Yeah. What is. What is the mechanism that makes me warm blooded? Oh, I see what you mean. So you mean keeping a kind of body temperature higher than what's outside? Yeah. You're warmer inside than you are outside. Yeah. Well, it's just energy. You're burning food, aren't you? So cold blooded animals aren't. They are, but for different things. Different things, yeah. What kind of answers that. I tell you what this is. This is not started well this week. I've got two very stroppy callers on the line with the first two questions. Well, obviously you need energy to run around if you're a lizard, but they're not expendable. So we expend energy on different things. Joe, if you. We have a cooling system. And what is that? We cooled. We sweat. No, you got. No, I'm actually right about this. I might not sound like I know what I'm talking about, but this is about sugar. This is about burning energy, and it creates heat. Now, it just. I don't know what the difference is. I accept you're not going to. That's what the question is. Well, it isn't what the question is. The question is, where does the heat come from? What's keeping me warm? The answer is sugar. Well, why can't they do it? Well, what is it different? They don't need to, do they? It's evolution, mate. Yeah, well, they have to get warm, they have to lie in the sun. I don't have to bother. Well, they're in sunny climates, so it's easier. They can save the energy, they eat less. They're in hot areas, they don't need as much food. They don't need as much food and therefore fly around. My house is in our area. Is it? Yeah. What is flies flying around your house? Well, in the summer when they fly about, flies, cold blooded flies, that. Flies are insects, not mammals. Yeah, but they're cold blooded. I don't know. All right, well, let's just work on the question a bit. Yeah. What mechanism makes us different from cold blooded animals? All right, then. Well, metabolism, that's not really answering the question, and I think it might be, but I appreciate I'm not sounding at my most. There must be some process in the body or the organ that's creating this. Yeah. All right, then. I think the question is clear somehow, despite the words that we have used. So someone ringing in can just work with the raw materials that we used. All the right words, Joe, but not necessarily in the right order. And that is probably what the answer involves. James is in Southampton. James, question or answer? Question. I'll see if we can go for three strophy calls in a row. They do it on purpose. It's because the radio figures are good. They think my ego needs trimming. Little do they know. Carry on. Have a stab at this, then. Right, so our toddler is learning to eat. So we have a lot of the plastic plates, cutlery, bowls, all that jazz. Yeah. God, I remember that. Boxes. Boxes are the stuff. They go in the dishwasher afterwards. And you also go as parent UK, look at the care instruction for the cutlery and it clearly says on the label of every product, wash only on the top shelf of a dishwasher. That made me think, right, okay, well, why. Why do these plastic pieces of plates and bowls, why does the manufacturer request that they only go on the top shelf of a dishwasher? What is so dangerous or risky about the bottom shelf of a dishwasher? I think it's because they melt and the heating element is at the bottom. The heat rises, though, surely? Yeah, but not, mate. Come off it. If you stick your fingers on a three bar fire, it doesn't matter whether if you're a foot above it. So the plastic is really near the heating element and therefore it's likely to melt. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I don't know enough about the internal, but thank you for being a lot better mannered than the previous two callers, than Lee and Joe. I mean, I think this is a perfectly plausible answer that will probably turn out to be correct, but obviously I'm not going to take a round of applause. It's either that there'll be a dishwasher engineer listening to this. There will be, yes. Or because it's so light. Plastic is so much lighter than other stuff, it might get thrown around the dishwasher by the water and the way, but I'm going for the heating element on this one. Fair enough. But I shall leave it on the board, James. I shall wait and answer. So shall I. Take care. It's coming up to 12:15. Why do we rub our hands together before tackling something? Tackling something, or in anticipation of watching someone else tackle something? And you do that, don't you? You see, watching a penalty. Would you rub your hands together when you're watching someone else take a penalty? You certainly. I mean, I think Lee was correct to suggest Bond villains do it. Hot blood versus cold blood. Question mark. That's from Joe. And why do we put plastic plates in the top of the dishwasher? That's from James. Although if it has got nothing at all to do with the heating element, then I will give you the money myself. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1217. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC when mystery hour continues. Ryan's in Birmingham. Ryan, question or answer? It's an answer. Go on. It's not necessarily the heating element, it's more to do with the pressure. You've got a lot of water coming out of the bottom. Jet in a dishwasher. If the plastic cutler is in the bottom. It's not cutlery, it's plates and plates everywhere. It's not plates. Anything. Anything that's lightweight. Hang on, before I start scoffing qualifications. I'm a dishwasher engineer. But that means you're very good at fixing dishwashers. It doesn't necessarily. Who fills it at home? You or do you live with other people? I'm the dishwasher at home. Are you? I think it's the. I think it's the heating element. Well, the heating elements are submerged under the water, so anything plastic won't be exposed to the element. No, but it's going to be hotter at the bottom than the top. Not by much. Yeah, by enough. By enough to melt plastic. I mean, I can't hold. I just don't think that's the reason, because if you stack it properly, nothing's going to fly around the place. Your wash temperature tends to be somewhere in the region of 40, 50 or 60 degrees, which is not enough to melt plastic. No, that might be true. All right. I mean, you're the expert. I'll give you the round of applause, but I'm not happy about it. I'll take the round of applause. Definitely. I'll tell you what does always amaze me, and you can help me with this. When you fill it up with salt or dishwasher fluid, it knows immediately that you've done it, doesn't it? You'd think it would take a little bit longer to realize, are there sensors in there? How does it know that? How does that work? It's. It's all magic. I knew you were a fraud. I knew it. Take that round of applause back immediately. You're not. You're no more a dishwasher engineer than I'm a radio presenter. This is a ridiculous exchange. I'm just about to walk into a pub and fix their dishwasher right now. Fantastic. All right. Well done, Ryan. Well played. And there you go. So, yeah, I mean, it does also make sense, but I. Anyway, Steve's in La Rochelle, en France. Steve, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. What's the point of the dawn chorus from the birds? Is there another dawn? I don't know. I mean, I thought you might. I don't know, frankly. So it's just. It's, um. Yeah, so when you wake up early in the morning, the sun's coming up and the birds are singing. The dawn chorus. It's glorious, isn't it? It's particularly lovely. I think they're just saying hello, aren't they? Well, this is the reason why I'm asking, because it is a beautiful experience. I love waking up, particularly when it's springtime and go outside and the birds are singing. But what's the point of it? Normally, with animals making noises or doing something, there's usually. Well, it's usually one of three things, isn't it, really? They're either looking for a bit of action. Yeah. They are fighting off others, or kind of like saying, this is my gaff. Off your hop. Yeah. Yeah. Or they're telling their mates where they are. Okay, so it's gonna be a combination of all three, I think. See, I think I'm on fire today and everyone's treating me as if I'm some sort of amateur. Well, no other animal decides to wake up in the morning and make a racket. Monkeys do. Monkeys do. That's true, actually. Same thing. You see, they're either attracting a mate, telling the pack where they are, or defending their territory. You see, other animals don't really need to do that because every other animal we encounter is domesticated these days, or there aren't enough of them around for it to be an issue. It's probably why wolves howl. But we haven't got any wolves. Have you got wolves in La Rochelle? No. Not Matt. No. All right, well, you're not going to accept my answer either, are you? I think you're onto something with the letting each other know where they are, but I'm not too sure how important that is. I'd like to. How would you feel if you didn't know where all your family was? But the thing is, if you're a. Imagine wandering around La Rochelle for the next six months all lost and alone, how would you like that? I just think if early bird catches the word, why would you want to wake up all your mates to go and be the first one to nick people the world because they. I don't know, actually. I don't know that that figure of speech does actually apply to birds, to be honest with you. I think it's more dense. Well, dawn chorus then. You're on, Steve. Thank you. Janine is in. Hi, James. Okay, what it is, I haven't finished introducing you yet. Janine, for heaven's sake. Talk about the early bird catches the worm. Is it saint also? It's saint. What? I'm quick off the mark. Where are you? St. What? Say what? How are you? All right. Saint. This is Saint something in Essex. I thought it was that. You know how they've spelt it? Oh, y sth. That's not how you spell ozif. Ozf. O y S T. Don't start on me. J. That's. That's east. I live here. That's oist. I know. I've argued with a dishwasher engineer about dishwashers and now I'm arguing with someone who lives in St Joseph about how to spell St Joseph. You don't spell it like that. You do. You don't. It's o s y, not o y s. Do you know what? Yeah, you're right. Sorry. That's quite all right, thank you very much. Let's get dishwasher boy back on as well. I'm on a roll now. Carry on to the question. Question or answer? Listen, this is a question. Yes, I've got twin boys. Oh, yeah? And they're identical? Yes. One is left handed and one is right handed. What's going on? Gosh. Is that. Is that not. I mean, is that extraordinary? Have you asked other twins? I've never heard of it before. Nor have I, but I've never asked anyone. Well, nor have I, really, but maybe it's normal. Maybe all twins are like that. I don't think so. I don't think so either. Wow. I don't think so. Because. Cool. Yeah, because twins kind of run in a family. But there's never been a left handed and a never right handed. I've never heard of it either, but, I mean, I just never heard. I mean. Crikey, that's a good one. So what's going on? As in if they are the same. It's a split egg, isn't it? So they should be identical. Identical. Well, they're called. They are called a mirror twin. That's right. Yeah. But I don't know what's going on with the left handed and the right handed business. So if anyone out there can tell me, I would appreciate it. So will I. Now, how do you spell St Joseph again? Os Gary's in Croydon. Gary, question or answer? Hello. Answers, please, James, carry on. Am I allowed to give you more than one answer? Nope. Oh, well, I've got one answer, then, to you. Carry on. And it's. It's to do with being warm blooded or not. Oh, yeah. In our cells, we have little structures called mitochondria, or mitochondria, which are effectively little engines, and they take the sugars from our food, so they take energy, they take the oxygen, obviously, that we breathe, and they effectively burn it. And just like any sort of burning reaction, when you burn some fuel, it releases heat. That is the basics of the sort of reaction in ourselves that is metabolism, which is metabolism. Yeah, of course, which is what I said. And between you and me, Gary, I felt Joe was quite unappreciative of my answer and I probably agreed. But, yeah, I mean, maybe you needed to give it a bit more detail than that. Throw in a bit of mitochondria to baffle them a bit, to blind them with science. I'm afraid I can't tell you any more about the chemistry of that reaction. But you don't need to. Structures, you don't need to. But what happens in a cold blooded animal? What's the difference, as it were? I know it's not great to make an assumption, but my assumption is that cold blooded animals don't have mitochondria or maybe have fewer mitochondria, or maybe they don't store their energy in the same way and therefore they can't release it to the mitochondria without being warmed up by the sun a bit, something like that. Oh, yeah. Maybe that makes sense. So they need to warm themselves up to get the old engine run, perhaps to kick start the whole reaction or something. I don't know. I can't profess to know the answer to that part of it. No. I salute your honesty. I think I'm going to give you a round of applause. But if Joe was here, I'm pretty sure he'd be doing his thing again with his. I don't think he'd have it with his skepticism and his cynicism and blaming us for the quality of his question. Right, you're on. Have a round of applause there, Gary. Thank you. Thank you. Dave's in Lewisham. Dave, question or answer? Yeah, that's a question. Carry on. Yeah, I'm a fisherman and I do sea fishing and freshwater fishing and you get freshwater fish and you get saltwater fish. You do. You get some fish that can do. Do both. Yeah. You get brackish. You get brackish water, which is sort of a, you know, sort and what. So if I caught a cod in a sea. Yeah. Why wouldn't it live in a pond? If I can understand a fresh water fish not living in the sea because of the salt, like, we couldn't swim in the Red Sea because it would kill us. It's too much salt. So I can understand the salt harming a freshwater fish, but why the lack of salt from a cod? Why couldn't. Why wouldn't it swim in a lake? Does it need the salt to survive? If and if so, why do freshwater fish not leave salt? Do you know what? It might be the same answer. Go on. Well, I presume that the freshwater fish is going to die in the sea because it will absorb too much salt. Yeah, I can understand that. Because if we swam in the Red Sea, we would die because it's so salty. But we swim in the normal sea, we don't die, do we? No, but if that would be a process of. I don't think he's on the ball on this one, because I'm about to say the word. I'll just go. So that would be. No, not metabolism. That would be osmosis, wouldn't it? I don't know. Wow. Well, that's the question anyway. Why. So would it not be the case that if a fish has evolved to have quite a high salt content while living in saltwater, that if you put it in fresh water, it would absorb too much fresh water and dilute via osmosis. So you can catch. You can catch mullet. You can catch mullet and bass in the Thames, and that's not salty. Of a high content of salt water? So how can they get used to brackish water, but they can't get used to just plain? Because that's still got some salt in it, so it can survive with a bit of salt? But. So the question is, how does the salt help the saltwater fish to survive? What is the question? That wasn't the question at all. The question was, why does it die? The question was, why does a salt water fish die when you put it in fresh water? Yeah. So, because it has to be because of the salt, hasn't it? It's got to be something to do with the salt. Yes. So. So the concentration of salt in the fish's body becomes too low for it to survive. Yeah. Why? Why does that salt help it survive osmosis? No, no, I'm not, I'm not. I'm not keen on that one. And also you're not keen on. How do you think it happened? And also, can I just say, hang on, you've ruined a few holidays here. You will not die if you swim in the Red Sea. Lots of people have done it. I mean, you might die if you stayed in there forever, but, um. Stop misrepresenting the Red Sea, Dave. No, no, I said the Dead Sea. The dead sea, not the Red Sea. You're not going to die in the Dead Sea either, are you? Yes, you. Yes, you will if you swallow water in the Dead Sea. I saw it on a program on telly. If you swallow water in the Dead Sea, the concentration of salt is so high water. Oh, I don't know how much. You people go on holiday all the time and they float around in the Dead Sea. Yes. And they can float because of the content of the salt. They can swallow a bit without dying, man. They can swallow a little bit. Well, it's. So. I saw the program on telling. It was so powerful, they said, can I just say one other thing? No. No. So you're telling me that the concentration of salt in the Dead Sea is higher than the concentration of salt in salt? No, thank you. Yeah, but you don't swallow a gallon of salt, do you? But you sprinkle it on your chips. Yes, but that's only if you've got salt in the normal sea and that doesn't kill you. You take one chip. Concentration. You take one chip and you put a whole teaspoon of salt on it and you eat that, you're not gonna die. It's gonna cause a reaction, though. It's not gonna cause a reaction. I mean, it's not gonna taste very nice. Can I just say something else, please? Yes. Right. Your answer to the dawn chorus. Why doesn't it happen in the afternoon, then? Why don't they have an afternoon chorus? Because they all know where the draw. They know where they are by then. Yeah, they do. Of course they do. I go out in the afternoon, I don't know where my mates are. Yep, but you don't move around as much. You move around more than birds do. Yeah, exactly. So I'd be shouting more, wouldn't I? Be shouting louder? It's dark. It's not dark. It's what happens when the light comes on. All right, I appreciate your. Let me just say that on answering questions. Fish, fruit. How dare you what are these suggestions? 1231 is the time. Why do saltwater. Why does saltwater fish die in fresh water? Tim Humphrey's here now with you with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. Mystery hour continues. Jane's in the Wirral. Question or answer, Jane? It's an answer. I'm gonna. Well, the one I'm most qualified to do is the bird one. Yes, but I do several. Because you've had quite a zoology hour, haven't you? We have, but you're only allowed to answer the one you've cleared with the producer. We're very strict. Well, I will do that one. So you've got two questions on the birds. Why do they sing and why do they sing at dawn? They sing almost exclusively. The birds, especially in the UK, that are singing, are proclaiming their territories or attracting a mate. It's just almost the same game. It's basically, this is my bit. Keep out of it. And while you're at it, if you fancy me, come over here. Oh, yeah. But more interesting, why do they do it at dawn? Birds tend to have quite a sort of. Quite a tight energy budget, so they really need to eat as well as. As well as do things like singing. So they tend to sing just before it gets light. So it's actually. When you say dawn chorus, it's actually pre dawn chorus, because they're awake, but they can't actually catch food because they're diurnal birds. Got it. So they. That's the. But also it's. But why? Sorry? Why. Why are they doing it at that time? Why? Because. Because they can't. They can't feed, but they are awake, so they may as well. That's a really good point. Why can't they feed? Because they can't see. It's not light enough. Oh, no. Okay, so it's got nothing to do with the air being colder and therefore the sound travels faster. What bird does that as well? The sound does travel better and also there's less background noise. But if you're. If you're a bird that eats insects, the insects aren't active, so you need to wait for a bit of heat before they do. That's because they're cold blooded birds aren't. No, the insects are. So you can't. Can't catch an insect if it's not moving, because you won't be able to see it. Yeah. Unless you eat moths, I guess. Especially if it's camouflaged like a stick insect or something like that. Qualifications, Jane? Well, I have a zoology degree about 45 years ago, but I'm actually the county recorder for Cheshire for birds. Oh, fantastic. What a lovely job. Yeah, yeah. It's good. That really is. But what's all sort of any excitement lately locally? We had a few pallid swifts last autumn, which is a bit global warming for you. When is the best time? Because I bought a swift box and I looked it up and it said, you should start playing swift noises out of a nearby window. Yeah. Really annoy your neighbors. They're not normally back till May. Get the swift noises ready for May. Yeah. They're quite handy, swift, and a lot of birds make mistakes, but swift tend to jump on mass when the weather's right. I'm really looking forward to it. It's right up in the eaves of the roof and it would be beautiful to sit in the back garden of an evening and see the swifts bombing around the place, wouldn't it? It's great, the weather duet. You get a pair flying around your ears and they'll be screaming. But there's actually both sexes. They actually make a slightly different pitch. Do you get this duet going? It's great. Sounds glorious. Thank you for that. Yeah. What a lovely job. Round of applause for Jane, please. There you go, Steve. Lovely answer. Next in swanage, Nick, question or answer? Question, mate. Carry on. This is to do with track and field athletics. Makes me think of Belle and Sebastian, but it's a bit niche. Go on. I remember Bel and Sebastian. Yeah, the quite. The men and women basically do all the same, exactly the same events. Now, they didn't until about maybe 20 years ago. The women did do the longer events and things, but they always. When they do the high hurdles, that. The short hurdles races, the women run 100 meters hurdles and the men run 110 meters hurdles. Why is that? It's the only event that differs between the men and the women. Yeah, it's a good question. I don't know. I don't know if there's an extra hurdle for the men or they just have longer between. Or there's a longer sprint to start off with or at the end. I don't know how. How many hurdles there are, but it's a longer. It's a 10 meters longer race for the men. And why is that? Yeah, I like that question. I'd never even clocked it, actually, until you mentioned it. But you're absolutely right. You do get the hundred meters hurdles for the women in 110 meters for the men. Why? Exactly. I like it, Nick. Thank you, mate. Thank you. Mind how you go. Millenn is in. Barnett. Millen. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The reason, I guess it's a filling in the missing blanks on the cold blooded, warm blooded thing. Good man. Cold blooded animals have mitochondria. Almost every living organism has mitochondria, but our brain has a section called the hypothalamus, which regulates homeostasis, which is keeping the body basically going. And there's a bit which tells the cells to keep burning sugar at a certain rate to maintain our internal temperature. Cold. Other things don't have that and so their internal temperature depends on the temperature of their environment. This means that they use way less energy. They don't need to eat as much because they don't constantly burn sugar to keep themselves warm, but they run the risk of freezing. So they have to hibernate in the winter or find other ways to and proliferate in much warmer climates as well. As. Well, things you mentioned also supports much less complex organs, which is why warm bollock animals have such complex brains, because they can keep the temperature going for the brain to see. It's an evolutionary phenomenon. Yeah, trade off. I love it. Yeah, there we go. And you're right. You filled in the perfect gap, so even flipping Joe would probably be happy now. Qualifications? Chemistry masters and general science guy. There we go. Another round of applause for mill and peace. Adrian's in Hartlepool. Adrian, question or answer? I've got a question for you. Please carry on, mate. You've got polar bears in the North Pole and penguins in the south Pole. If you put a polar bear in the south Pole and move the penguins to the north Pole, would their natural navigational. Their natural navigations be all screwed up because they're in different hemispheres? Well, what. I mean. What? No, why. Why would they be. I mean, if I took. Where are you, Harley? Paul. I know. No, I know what those words mean. But if I drop you in Sydney, you'd be all right, wouldn't you? Yeah, I'm a bit more intelligent than a polar bear or a penguin. Oh, get you, get you. Yeah, but if you take your cat to Australia, it wouldn't be unduly discombobulated. I thought you were going to ask about the concentration of the ice or the. Or the. Or the. Why would. Why would. No. You know, do animals get they natural navigation instincts be screwed up because they're in different hemispheres, right? I don't think so, no, but, I mean, I know nothing. I should probably have made that clearer from the start. What makes you think they might just that all. I mean, everything. Magnetism, gravity, all of that. I mean, whatever. Anything. Yeah. Yeah. I mean. I mean, me to answer this question, to bring up about this question for about over a year, but my company phone wouldn't allow me to dial certain numbers, so today is a really good day. Fantastic. We shall find out. I mean, someone might have done it. You never know. It's a sort of. Take a polar bear to the. To the pole where they don't currently live, which would be the Arctic, wouldn't it, rather than Antarctica. You're on. So could polar bears and penguins survive on the poles where they don't naturally occur? Would they be absolutely hunky dory? Zero. 345-606-0973 Abby's in the Cotswolds. Abby, question or answer? Question. Hello? Hello. I want to know if it's true that fish have a two second memory. I thought it was a tiny bit more than that. And if. Well, I don't know. And if it is true, how is that known? Well, I shall tell you because we've heard the saying, got a memory like a goldfish. I thought it was 10 seconds. Oh, well, I don't know. Could you know the answer? Yeah, I think I can work it out. Gone. Then imagine a tiny little electric shock. Yeah. It's enough to hurt a fish, but not enough to kill it. Right. And the fish swims up to it and nibbles it. Yeah. And gets a shock. Right. Now, what would you do with your memory? Well, I wouldn't go back to it. Yeah. So start the clock for the fish going back to it. You have to have a hungry fish, and the electric thing has to look like food. Yeah. How long before the fish goes back and has another nibble and gets another shock? And that is how long a fish's memory lasts for. So is that accurate or is that just guesstimate? I am unspeakably pleased with that answer, Abby. Okay. I cannot tell you how smugly I just sat back in my chair. I've got one arm over the. I've got one arm over the back of my chair. I'm sitting here like, I don't know, like a football pundit watching his team score ten goals in the studio. It's pathetic, frankly. I don't know. Yeah, somebody does know. Well, what's wrong with my answer? It might not be right. It might not be right. I can't see how else they do it. You've forgotten your answer. I can't see. I can't see how else they'd do it. I don't know. I don't know. I've got some fish. I mean, I suppose I could drop some food. Don't get electricity involved. That's probably. No, that's all we need. All right, I'll put it on the board. How do we know how long a fish's memory lasts for. Thank you, Abby. It's a great question. So I've still got quite a few. Why do women do the 100 meters hurdles? Adrian's penguin and polar bear question. The fish and their memories. Dave's fish question. We've got a lot of fish on the show today. Twins. Janine's twins. We need some answers. Get rid of all these questions. We just need answers, answers, answers, answers. After this mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 1248 mystery hour continues. Adam's in Nimes in France. Adam, question or answer? I have an answer for you. You and our friend in San Rochelle. You spoilt my rage. Our buzz. Sorry. It's all right. I'm just realising how much higher it would be if we counted people who aren't in the UK. That's all right. Anyway, where were we? What's your answer? It's with regard to the twins and the handedness. Yes. So I don't have a completely brilliant memory with regards to this, but about 20 years ago, there was an excellent science paper by someone called, I think, and he. Uno gunter. Yeah, I believe so, yeah. And. Yeah. Anyway, you probably don't know. He was a brilliant scientist. What do you mean, I wouldn't know? Of course I know. Oh, my goodness. All his albums. And he is a specialist in laterality, and he did a beautiful piece of observational science at the airport whereby he stood and looked at how people kissed each other when they met, whether to the left or to the right, and he did some very, very basic kind of math on that and then realized that, pretty much, that the way people have abdominals to the left or to the right matches the way that they lie within the womb. So there's an environmental impact of the womb on how your brain develops, so therefore the twins would be lying in a different way. I don't know if you did actual work on twins afterwards, but then. Okay. And so it probably is more common than we realize, then, to have one left wing and one, one left, one left handed and one right handed. Quite possibly, I may have missed out some middle bits in the middle of that paper, but it was an excellent piece because even then, doing science was you required a lot more equipment, a lot of people. It is very rare to see kind of things done just by sitting and looking at. Basically knowing your field and looking at it. Sitting in an airport and counting something so simple and coming up with such a great idea. Is he still at Royal University? No, I used to be at bachelor, unless I've got the wrong name. Royal University is in Roar is in Baucom. He used to work in Baucom, but that's what the name of the university he was a professor of behavioral science, wasn't he? Yes, he was. He was a lovely man and he was very kind to me after I failed my first PhD exam. Oh, how lovely. Did you. Did you pass it subsequently? I did get a PhD subsequently, yeah. And now we come to the next question, Adam, which is, what are your qualifications? PhD in behavioral psychology. Is it neuroscience? I did. I did neuroscience and I did specifically learning behavior. That's brilliant. Your fish. Your fish explanation is pretty good. I'm sure it's a slightly better one, but it's pretty good. I think you'll find osmosis is absolutely front. And so, anyway, round of applause for Adam. Well played. Thank you very much. Richard's in Barnett. Richard, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on to the hurdles. Question. Yes. So, 110 meters hurdles. 100 meters for women. The main difference between the two events not only is the distance, but the height of the hurdles. Yeah. So men's hurdles are, I think, from memory, three foot six. So, you know, on a. For an average size or six foot or tall man, they come up almost just above your stomach, just under your chest. They're quite high. Yeah. And to get over that higher hurdle, you need the extra distance to generate the power to get over that hurdle. So if, as women are generally smaller than men, it will be. It'd be tricky for them to get over that. Yeah, that's fine. But why do they have a shorter race? Because their hurdles are only at two foot. Two foot six. Two foot nine rather than three foot six. Yeah. So they don't need. They don't need the height. They don't need the length to get over that height of hurdle. So if you put the women on the high hurdles, there will be more hurdles in October. Idea is that you've got an obstacle, but you've got an obstacle that doesn't make it so difficult that all of them are knocked over and you would get that. Okay, so why. Why couldn't the men's be 100 then? The men's could be 100, but they've. That's. I think there is a. There's a physics element of it, too, because you've got to generate the speed plus height, isn't it? So the amount of space they use to get to the first hurdle might be higher. Well, there's a longer space. Longer strides as well. Longer strides, yeah, longer strides. And you've got a longer space between the hurdles as well to generate that pace. You've got to get the speed up to get over it, kind of to do with the larger, fast twist muscles that men have. I mean, obviously, you know, this is a more controversial subject than it's ever been for years, but it is. There. There is. There are some physical differences, qualifications. I once, a long time ago, was a champion hurdler. I couldn't get over one of those three foot six ones. Now, how much of a champion hurdler were you? I was a Hertfordshire champion at 400 hurdles. I was. It's pretty good. Got to the 6th best in the country under 19 level. It's a round of applause, but not a Ray Liotta. Thank you very much. No, thank you very much. Great work. Howard's in Sydenham. Howard, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Carry on, Howard, very brief question first for you. What did you actually do? A psychology degree, because can't you tell? Well, you actually described the experiment that was done when I did my psychology degree at Northumberland University. The fish on the fish's memory, they did indeed give goldfish electric shocks. Get it? Are you joking me? Are you joking? Are you joking? No, I'm not joking, you know. Fantastic. There you go. See, Keith was rolling his eyes. Keith is rolling his eyes. Thank you. Like he wouldn't believe. That was. That's. I don't know what that's called. Critical thinking, is it? Or something lateral think. Anyway, give us. Give us the jenny. Thank you. They found that the fish could remember for quite a few days. Oh. But then the head of department found out they were doing the experiment and told them that we didn't do animal experiments in that psychology department. Even on little shut down, they closed it down for cruelty to fish. How long, roughly, was the memory then, do we think? Several days, really? So where does it come from? Where does it come from? The idea that they've only got a ten second memory, I suppose they're very small, aren't they? You know, probably think there isn't much room for a memory. Figure of speech, qualifications? Psychology. Person degree? Yeah, from a long time ago. That'll do round of applause. Look at that. You dream up an experiment and you come up that. I'm so pleased with that. Professor Hal is here. Hello, James. Hello, Professor Hal. Shai, tell Keith to get his fingers ready, could you? Yeah. Keith fingers. Please carry on. We can actually answer this with a bit of literature. The rhyme of the ancient mariner. Mariner, yeah. Water, water everywhere but narrow drop to drink. We can't drink seawater because it's too salty. Every organism has an optimum level of saltiness, which is called the osmotic strength. Nearly. Which is all to do with osmosis, of course. So if you put a salty fish into fresh water, it would swell up because the water would osmose in. Osmos in. Not osmosis. Sorry. And if you put a freshwater fish in salty water, it would dehydrate because the water would osmose oust and you can't drink. In fact, salt is very toxic and it's very dark. Yes, I know it is. To remind you that there was a case of infanticide accidental. It was one of the most heartbreaking stories I've ever covered on the radio, when people just. They felt that they could save money by liquidizing their own dinner rather than buying baby food. And there was so much salt in it that the poor little baby perished. That story. Yes. And the same works in reverse. You can actually be too hydrated for the same reason. So there it is. So you were quite right. Qualifications? I'm delighted to be the professor of public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Should we share this one? We can do. To be absolutely clear, should we say it both together on three? The answer to this question in a single word is one, two, three. Osmosis. And we both get. Is that it? Are we done? We got no more. There's a couple that still need answers. Let's see if Sheila Fogarty can help. Oh, God. If you took a penguin to where they don't live, as in they live on one pole but they don't live on the other. Yeah. And you did the opposite journey with a polar bear. Would they be okay, do you think? As long as the conditions were similar at the other end, I think they'd be fine. I do, too. We've done the twins, we've done that, we've done the hot blood. We didn't do the. Why do you think we rub our hands together before tackling a task? Warmer is stronger. Get the blood flowing. Yeah. It must be that. Even if it's translated into his. Into Lee's granddad eating his Sunday lunch. It's still the same. Limbers them up. It's the memory, isn't it? It's the muscle memory of, like, I'm ready for action now. Let's get stuck into that. Okay, we're good. I think I need to pick a winner. Do you have any thoughts, Keith, on this one? I thought Dave. I mean, judging by the love on Twitter that they exchanged with Dave about cold blooded and red blooded fish, and of course, the opportunity to bring the hallelujah chorus back into proceedings after an absence of some months, if not years, I think we'll give it to Dave. It probably won't be very grateful. He was not grateful to the answer I provided to his question, which turned out to be correct. So God knows why I'm giving him a mystery out board game. But the decision has been made and it is final. That's it for me for another day. If you missed any of today's program, you can download it at the global player. You can listen back and catch up on global player. You can also rewind and pause when listening live to LBC. So you know, if you think, oh, that was a brilliant question. I hope I don't miss the answer, but I've got to go and make a sandwich or, I don't know, pick the kids up from school. You can press pause and then come back later. Download global player for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Sawbrick will of course be with you at 04:00 but now I'm bringing in early. Now what's happened? It's getting ridiculous. Sheila Fogarty is rubbing her hands together in anticipation of her 3 hours in your delightful company.