Why are my nuts salty?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, four minutes after twelve. I was pretty close, by all accounts. Ora. I'll do it now. Tora ine Hora Mysterio May. James O'Brien Zitto. If you've just tuned in, don't worry. Well, it's as normal as it'll ever be. Mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. Answers questions, mysteries solved, illumination introduced. We may interrupt it briefly if the findings of the reporting to Dominic Robb's alleged bullying are released in the course of the next hour. But in a way, it's quite good to have mystery hour up and running because all the rolling news stations are just going to be repeating the fact that they're expecting the revelations or the results to be released to be published sometime soon. But the report is now with Rishi Sunak. Whereas happily, upon this radio station, the ball is now in your court. You can win a board game, by the way. Oh, I must say hello to Charlie and Emma, if you're still listening. Whether I went to see Book of Mormon last night, Charlie's birthday happened to be enjoying a cooling lager. Actually, it was quite an odd cocktail, had a big slice of pineapple in it. As I made my way out of the building yesterday, they were happy to bump into me and, well, I forgot what I was going to. What was I going to mention about them? Now, the board game. It happens increasingly now where people say, oh, we got the board game and we love it. It puts a little spring in my step. So you can win a copy of the board game, a box of the board game, the mystery hour board game by being my favorite contributor of the day. Full terms and conditions at LBC dot co dot UK and you can get hold of your own copy if you're not lucky enough to win one at Mysteryhour dot co dot UK. I think that. Should we just crack on? I'll tell you what I've been doing really round the houses introductions lately. I don't know if Keith noticed, but I've hit the 20 1 minute mark on both. Both hours this morning. How many this week have I done? The 20 1 minute mark on? It's a request. Stop counting. Bless him. So let's just crack straight on on this one, shall we? And then if you don't know what's going on, you can work it out. It will come in quite straightforwardly. Cathy is in Redruth. Kathy, question or answer? Question, please. James, carry on. Cathy, I'm really nervous this morning. Why? I just am. Okay. I don't usually get to hear mystery. I was live, I'm usually in work. I'm hoping you know the answer to this one. I have two passports. I have a british passport and an irish passport. If I. Yeah, exactly. I'm hoping you know the answer. If I leave the UK, if I go on a package tour or whatever, they'll ask me to give details of one passport and use it. Yes, independently, say, on a ferry or whatever, can I leave the UK on one and return on the other? I think it depends where you're going. I don't know the answer is the short answer, but I think it's a great question for a number of reasons. I think it's going to depend where you're going, because if you're going into continental, if you're going into the EU, apart from Ireland, then they need to keep count, don't they, of your 90 days? That's my thought. So they probably. If I'm going in on an irish passport, then no, they don't, but they won't bother. So if you go in on the irish passport, I don't think anyone's going to stop you coming back. Now, why am I saying this out loud? This is really important stuff. I have no idea. I know nothing. Yes. Will the british computer then goof if it doesn't know, but it doesn't. In the great picture, it doesn't matter, because by dint of having an irish passport, you can spend as long as you want in the European Union, can't you? And then try and come back. Yeah, then. Then will it? I mean, there's no reason to do that to returning on a british passport, but there might be. No. So we're just looking for a technical. Whether it's technically possible to do so. Technically possible because there's no benefit to doing it whatsoever. You're right. I like that question. I went to Dublin recently and I did think about trying that. I don't know whether you can go out on the one and come back on the other, but just. Yeah, I'm like you, I'm just curious. I can't see that there would be any particular benefit to it, but we will find out for you. Kathy, have your nerves diminished? Little, yes, you see, that's the thing. My Greek gets no further than escaristo, so I'll leave it at that. Well, that's pretty good. That's pretty good. That's a start. That's where we all start. I think Jennifer's in Peterborough. Jennifer, question or answer? Question, please. James, I'm really nervous. It's my second time. I don't know what to do with myself. It gets easier. It doesn't. It really does. Of course it does. It's only me, for goodness sake. Well, that's the problem. That's the problem. So, always it's me, Stilton, Jen. So I live in Stilton. Okay. Always lived in villages. Bearing in mind population would have been a hell of a lot less back in the olden days, every village I've lived in, an average four to five pubs. Okay, there could have been one. That could have been, you know, a bit of a shop, sold goods, things like that. Why so many pubs in little villages with tiny populations? It's a good question. But what about churches? Yeah, well, churches. There's not as many. Well, no, there are. I mean, not as many, but they're huge. Yeah, well, you know, even in small villages, some of the church people must have traipsed for miles to go to church back in the day. So a pub was a crucial. I mean, it was like. It was the only place anybody could go. So the village. I'm not as. I'm not as. I don't find it as mysterious as you do, Jen. Oh, I do. Because the population would have been so much less. So was like. Why would it have been less? The population would have been more. No, because the houses over the space of, like, farms, things like that. Over the space people were living in, tiny little people living in holes. Back in the day, there'd have been thousands of them. Farm workers. Yes. There was no machines. It was all humans. There was more humans, but in villages. Well, what's your answer, then? What's your answer, then? Clever, Cliff? I don't know. Hence my. Why I'm bringing James. Because if there are so many pubs, right, for this, like, in comparison to the population, whether you agree with that or not. Okay, there would have been so fewer people in these pubs. Okay, well, okay, I've got an answer for you, which is not. It's not definitive, but it is definitely helpful. So you need to stop thinking of a pub, in the modern sense, of a publisher, and you have to think of it instead as a house where one room was given over to selling ale. Oh, well, don't make that noise. That's just true. I mean, there was a great documentary on the radio the other day about some murders in Scotland where it was commonplace at first. 1st I'd heard about the practice in Scotland, but that's what pubs were. They were homes, they were houses where there would be one room given over to selling ale that was usually brewed on the premises. And if you think of it in those terms, you'd only need seven or eight customers, wouldn't you? Have you seen the banshees of innochieren yet? No. Oh, you must. It's a beautiful film. Absolutely. But the old rural irish pub still fit that model. Whereas you're looking at. You're thinking of a sort of a chef and brewer, aren't you? Or a big. Well, you are. You're thinking, you get your scampion chips. You get your scampion chips, have a game of pool. Several rooms function, one for the ladies, saloon, bar, spittoons. You're not thinking of just a single room where you can have a beer, which is what the pubs in the villages would have been back in the day. Well, some of them still are, Jane. Yes. I live like tiny, tiny villages sometimes and I just. In my head I was always thinking, you know, so like, there's a hell of a lot of land, so less people. All right, well, I'm pretty sure I've nailed it, but I can sense your scepticism, so I will leave it. I will leave it hanging on the board. We've already said thank my life, skeptic. That's the best way to live it. We've already said thank you for the. For the presents that you sent us, haven't you? Oh, I'm so glad you enjoyed them. They were delicious. I don't know what Keith did with the chocolates, but the cheese went down a tree and. Listen, I do get your text and I know you're going through a tough time at the moment, so you take care of yourself. Well, I'll try to. And if you keep on showing up every day, I'll be. I promise I'll keep keeping you company if you promise you keep keeping me company. All right. Promise. Pinky promise. Thank you. They must get an answer for Jan on the pubs. Question. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time Kevin is in Wellingborough. Kevin, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. I was on a flight back from Turkey the other day. Oh, yeah. And one thing that really gets to me and I don't understand why, is why when you take off and land, do you have to put your seat arms down? Usually the answer to the questions like this is quite morbid and it's something to do with the preparation for crap. Well, it's obvious, isn't it? If you think about it, if you jar on landing, if you have a really bad landing, you're going to be thrust into your upturned. It's going to hit you in the chest. What, the actual feet? The upturned hat? The upturned army. Yeah. The uptime arm goes behind you, though, doesn't it? It goes to the seat behind you. But you've been, you've been shoved sideways. Ah, you see, there's nothing to land on if your arm is down, if your arm is up. And it's an unlikely angle, I grant you, but it is going to. You're massively increasing the chance of you being impaled upon your own seat arm. It's got to be. It's got to be that. It's got to be that. It's got to be that. I can, I can understand the, the, um, the tray, obviously, because if you lean forward. Same reason, though, isn't it? Same reason, less likely, yeah. But your seatbelt would probably keep you from moving. I'm not back. I'm not. I'm not backing on. Probably there, mate. Not. Not when it comes to getting impaled on my own seat arm. Probably. It's not going to. Probably's cutting no mustard. I think it's that. You think it's that? Yeah. You could be right. I sense you're not. I'll leave it on the board then, shall I? Okay. If you could, please. That'd be awesome. Charming, honestly. I'm providing these top dollar gold standard answers and I'm just being surrounded by skepticism at every turn. Richard's in bath. Richard, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Snooker. So it's quite topical. Not about orange powder, you'll be pleased to hear. So I've just noticed over the years, I mean, I've watching snooker for years. Yeah, me too. And I've noticed. Noticed that a lot of players, it's not all of them, but when they put that bridge hand down on the table, their middle finger starts to twitch and it'll go up and down and up and down just before they play the shot. And I thought, well, why? And I've been wondering it for years and the thing is, I've even seen amateurs doing it in the clubs as well. So, you know, did one player start and then everybody just copied them? Or do you play yourself to a very low amateur standard? It's just the middle finger. The actual middle finger. The swearing finger? Yeah, just the middle finger. So if you're a right handed player, it'll be your left hand? Yeah. No, and you've probably seen it yourself, but I think it's like. I think I do it myself. I think it's like sticking your tongue out when you're threading a needle. Possibly. I think it's drawing your attention. It's focusing your attention down to the. Down to the tip of the queue area. Yeah. It's just bizarre that some players do and some don't. So did one player start and someone copied it, or is it a learned thing? No, I mean, it's not. No one's copper. I wouldn't imagine any. Well, I don't know, but I imagine it is just reflexive and some do it and some don't, in the same way that some people stick their tongue out when they're threading a needle because it helps them concentrate more and some people don't. I like it because I can't see it adds anything to the success of the pot. So, anyway, you don't know that unless you force someone not to do it. Unless you tape their finger to the bays and then see whether or not they play just as well. That'd be fun, wouldn't it be? Who'd you fancy this year? I don't know. I'm probably. I don't know. I'm just enjoying the snooker this year. So I did a tweet the other night. I did a tweet the other night about the game that I just watched. Guess who liked it? I didn't even know he followed me on Twitter. I was so excited. Was it either a Davis or Hendry? Sean Murphy, mate. Oh, fantastic. I was over the mouth. I've been on best behavior on Twitter ever since. I don't want to disturb Sean preparing to play or indeed to commentate. 1216 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It's 1218. You're listening to James O'Brien, LBC. Don't text me your top tips for who's going to win the snooker this year. It's still the first round. It's. But I did think Jack Jones played beautifully. Yeah, that was a really exciting crucible. Can we do a phone in on snooker with that? That? No. What do you people know, honestly, do you think this has become the most popular show on commercial radio? Talk show on commercial radio by accident? Or do you think it's because of my instincts and my team effort as much as snooker. Well, snooker is, of course, Alex is in. Lewis. Alex, question or answer? Hi there, James. A question, please, carry on. So, imagine it's a windy day. Why is it that most of the time the wind comes in gusts rather than a continuous flow of air? It comes and goes and gusts. And why is that? I'm still imagining it's windy. Eh? It's windy, eh? Windy? Whoa. You mean. Yeah. Are you sure it does? Well, on most windy days, you don't get a constant, you know, wind at a constant speed. It varies slightly, but I don't know what I mean. Is that a mystery? Is that a mystery? I think it's a mystery because I understand the mechanism of what causes wind. It's when air is flowing from. I think it's an area of high pressure to low pressure. But why does it come and go in? Yeah. So why gusty? Yeah. I don't know. I do as well. I wasn't just sort of. Yeah, yeah, you're on. I like it. Can I stop imagining it's a windy day now? No, carry on. I was quite enjoying the sound effect. Thank you, Alex. Have a great day. Chris is in Singapore. Question or answer? Hi, James. This answer for you. Top man. Carry on. It's regarding passports on dual nationalities on passports. So you can use one passport, go out with one and come back on the nub. Definitely. Qualifications? I think I can work this one out. I work in corporate business travel for 30 years, so, I mean, there'd be some circumstances in which you might get pulled over for doing it. No, I mean, if they keep. If they keep in count of your days in a certain territory or something like that, it's to do. It's very popular, so it would rarely be used in tourism, but in corporate travel. For instance, say you had australian and uk dual nationality. Yeah. So if you apply to Australia, you'd obviously use your Australia passport going out, because you then you don't need a visa to apply for a visa and then just come back on your UK one, because customs would be quicker. Customs would be quicker back here on your UK passport than your australian. Exactly. And that's it. There's also countries like, if you fly to Israel, it will cause certain problems if you're flying to other countries where they won't accept an israeli stamp, or if you visit, you would have either two passports or a dual nationality. Perfect answer and perfect qualifications. So we don't know specifically Cathy's query about the british and the irish passport. But she didn't ask specifically about the british and the irish passport, she asked about the general principle. Yeah, the principle with the english and irish. It doesn't matter because they have the Anglo irish agreement, so. Yeah, but if you're going to France, if you're going to France on a british passport now, then you're limited to 90 days, whereas if you're an irish passport, you can stay for as long as you want. Yeah, so I'm actually, I'm going to apply for my irish passport, thanks to my parents, for that sole reason that when I fly back to the UK, when I want a holiday in Europe, I will fly out on my irish passport, but then I could re enter on my irish passport. Have your parents got. Have your parents still got irish passports themselves? Yes, they have. That makes it quite easy then for you. Quite straightforward. Definitely. The trade also helps. Yeah. No, you can't have too many passports, can you? James Bond, Tom? No, exactly. Don't worry about the board game, I bought it at Christmas. A bit presumptuous. They're thinking that you might be in with a chance of winning Christmas. I can't send it to Singapore anyway, lovely stuff. Round of applause for Chris there. Another. Another satisfied customer for the mystery out board game. Another good, good answer to the question. Georgina is in Ponte Clune. Question or answer? Georgina. Hey. Yeah, it's a pretty basic, but I hope. Nice question. Yes, it's a question about lambs and I'm wondering at what age or what point in a lamb or sheep's life do they lose their bound? They do actually bounce about, don't they? Lambs? They are so cute as they bounce about. When do they start? Is that. Yeah, all right, you're on. I mean, I don't want to bring it down to grim definitions, but I wonder, I mean, when does a lamb stop being a lamb in terms of what you can buy in the butchers is pertinent as well. Does a lamb ever stop bouncing or is it actually no longer a lamb? And that is one of the measures of which, well, potentially, I don't know, but the sheep, they aren't bouncing around like the lambs do. I read the other day that if you find a sheep on its side with its legs in the air, particularly at this time of year, the word is cast. Do you know this? No. And you should roll it back onto its feet because it's probably pregnant and it can't get back up again. Well, I'll definitely look out for it. No, well, we all will. Now, I mean, I'm unlikely to come across many on my way home from. From Leicester Square, but you never know, you're more possibly more likely in Ponte Clune. Did I pronounce that correctly? If Ponte clean, why didn't you tell me when you came? Why didn't you correct me when I didn't want to correct you? Well, you must correct me. If you don't correct me, then how am I ever going to improve? Fair enough. Ponty, do you know what it means? Bridge on a stream? Yeah, yeah. Close. Bridge over the river. Clean. Is Ponty clean? Yeah. Who gets around for nobody? Keith, behave yourself. Honestly, I like being corrected. I wrote a whole book about it. Thank you, Georgina. Terry's in charge. Terry, question odds. It's a bit of a frivolous question, James. If camera lenses are round, why are photographs square? Because film is square, or rather. But why. But why not have square lenses? Well, why would you want a square lens? It's mimicking. It wouldn't look cool at all because it would mimic that. Lenses is convex or concave, isn't it? Depending on which way you're looking at it. So it's mimicking the action of an eye. If it was square, it would not. You wouldn't get a proper, true image, you'd get a weird, distorted image. But the thing is, if this is a pointless conversation, because there's nothing you can say is going to render me wrong. James. No, conversations are pointless. Oh, he's gone philosophical. He's gone philosophical. All right. I take that. That's a fair point. That's a fair point. It's just one of those stupid things. I think I know it's. So you want a technical answer there. You want someone who's just a stupid question. Oh, don't say that. I like it. Don't do that. If you do it there, you might make the board game. If we get it going, mate, you don't want to be doing it down. This could end up being in the, in the booster pack of questions and answers for the board game. So you know the answer is probably, because if you try and imagine a pyramid with a smooth top, so you've got a square shape. I just can't, I can hardly see it, Terry, let alone imagine it on a camera. Well, it's one of those strange things. It's just. Someone will tell you, looks at the world in the round like an army and then. Yeah, in the round. And then we get it in the square. What's going on there? Someone might know. Zero. 345-606-0973 thank you, Terry. Rig welted, I'm told, is the. Is the technical term for the sheet that I just described, but my advice is sound. David's in Holborn. David, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's for the snooker. The middle finger going up and down. It's tempo. It's done. So they. Some players will count to six, five, four, whatever the number is. Yeah, it's done for tempo and also it's a stop and snatching at the shot. So even though some do, so it's literally to get down. One, two, three. And you'll see they pull the cue back and forward when they're doing it, so take your time. It's like a sort of count to ten. A warm up concentration. There's quite a lot going on there and it's very deliberate. So. It's very deliberate, yeah. And so obviously, because they're playing to a high level, they're playing for a lot of money, so it just calms them down a bit. Qualifications. I used to know Jimmy White. I asked Jimmy White the question, Wimbledon dogs, many moons ago, and he gave me that answer. That's pretty. That's a pretty solid qualification, I think. Yeah. Name dropping. Well, I'm a big fan of name dropping on this program, as you well know. I've never met Timmy. Right. Actually, the, um. Do you know him well? I used to know him well. When I used to, in another lifetime, I was. I used to go dog racing, almost like a semi professional greyhound, and he used to come up to me, advise me what dogs would I. What dogs ain't. You know, what dogs would and what dogs wouldn't. And you. And you specifically asked him that question? I exactly asked him that question because he used to bug me. No, I love it. There you go. All right. Round of applause for David. I love that qualification. Thank you very much indeed. Jimmy White told me down at the dogs. Love it. 1227 is the time. Richard is in Cornwall. Richard, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. The one about the pubs. Yes, it kind of. You kind of gave it to me a little bit, but being a farmer, the farm I currently work at is 500 acres. In years gone by, there would have been hundreds of people that would have worked on this farm. Yeah. Instead of just me. At the moment. You're doing it all yourself. Are you literally doing it as we speak? Because I can hear some sort of movement in the background. I am an attractor. And your colleague was a bit worried about the noise. In the background. I like the noise in the background. I think it adds atmos, fear. What have you got? What have you got? So you're doing fine. You do 500 acres single handedly? Yeah, pretty much. We have outside help come in. But there's harvest. There's nowhere near. Well, we're spreading slurry at the moment. Okay. I'm attached to a big, long pipe with three of the people pumping slowly to me, so I can't really. As much as your colleague wanted me to stop, I can't really stop. No, no, that's fine. I mean, normally, it's a health and safety thing and for the quality of the call if you're driving up the m four. But I think if you. If you're attached to a big, long pipe, Richard, pumping slurry all over the place, it's best not to interrupt. No. And I do. And to say, I'm not even driving the truck that's driving itself. So I'm just. I'm sitting here observing the truck. Is it really? Good lord, this is getting more exciting by the minute. So back in the day, if you were farming 500 acres, how many staff would you have had? How many workers would be in the. Easily over 100. Yeah, there it is. So therefore they would have all wanted a drink? They'd all want to go to the pub. There would have been no tv at home, no kind of entertainment at home. Correct. No mystery our board game at home. No mystery our board game at home. No. James O'Brien on the radio to listen to. Straight down the pub, then. And added to the fact that pubs would have been houses with one room where you could drink beer. So that's what. That's why there would be so many of them in any good. Where would the average agricultural worker have lived then? Because Jen also pointed out that, you know, there's not that many dwellings in these villages. Do we know? There would have been more dwellings, but the dwelling wouldn't have been anywhere near the size that they are at the moment. And you'd have families in a single room and all that kind of thing. And all families in a single room. There's still workers cottages on the farm now. Yeah. That one family or one single person lives in a workers cottage. Yes. But back then, an entire family would have lived in that cottage. Do you know, there was a. I grew up. I sort of grew up on a farmer. We didn't obviously farm it, but there was still an attached cottage to the farm where we lived. And when I was a kid, it still had a soil floor. Can you believe that? Yeah, that's quite common. I know. Well, I know you know that I was doing it for the benefit of people who aren't farmers qualifications. Richard, you've already told us. Really. And, yeah, a farmer. Round of applause. And you're a sheep. Which I just heard as well, is perfectly correct. Oh, thank goodness for that. It'd be very embarrassing if I'd endangered the sheep of the nation with. But it is true. And if they can't get back up again, especially if they're pregnant, then help them out. Holly Harris is here with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC 1234 is the time. And thank goodness that we don't work for a rolling news television station who are still talking about the fact that the prime minister has received the Dominic Raab report and as yet hasn't really revealed what's in. How do you string this out? My sort of weird career. One thing I've never really had to do, except just for a few minutes on pmqs before it starts, when Theo and I or Lewis and I or Ben and I would just desperately try to fill the available space with meaninglessness. Apart from on occasions of state when I found myself, you know, watching the prime minister or the Queen make her way to the state opening of parliament or something like that, I've never really had to do the epic efforts of space filling. But how do you. Because I've never been a correspondent, only really been a presenter in broadcasting terms. So how do you. I mean, it's a great gift, isn't it? So thanks for coming back to me with the same question that you asked me 20 minutes ago, to which I have no new answers whatsoever. But what's very important to remember at this time, John, is that Dominic Raab is an Aries. And as such, he will be. Oh, I beg your pardon, he's a Sagittarius. And as such, he will be quite in two minds. I don't. That's Gemini. He'll be quite. He'll be in two minds about what is likely. Rishi Sunak, of course, is a great player of pool and therefore he will be hovering over the corner pocket at this point in the hope of securing a pot. I'm just hearing that we still don't know what is in Dominic Raab's bullying report and as yet, no news. No news, John, back to the studio. Chris is in Manchester. Chris, question or answer? Question. Why is it the year 2080 in Nepal? Big busted fans. They're in a hurry to get to the year 3000. Come on. Come on. Well, I mean, it will have something to do with religion, but why then? Why is that? How did he come to the presumption that it's 2080? Are you sure that they did? Well, I mean, when we. When were you last there? Uh, I've not. You've not been? No. What. How do you know what year it is? Um, my boys told me that they learned it at school. Oh, okay. I looked it up and it is 2080. But I can't find why. 56 years ahead of us. 56 years and six months ahead of us. All right, we'll find out. I mean, it must have something to do with their religion, mustn't it? Well, yeah, that's what I guessed, but the boys didn't tell me anything more. I think you should take this up at parents evening, Chris. They can't. Just dishing out these kind of bombshell information nuggets without giving them any context or explanation of why that actually is. I know. I mean, this is why I teach the felonies, not. This is why we don't support their strike. Because they give us. We are joking. Teacher friends. Yeah. Um, you're on. Yeah. Why is it the year 2080 and Nepal? I love that. And what you're going to do is just drop it in over tea tonight, aren't you? Oh, lads, you know why. You know why. I found everything out. Yeah, exactly that. That's because that's what dads do. 1238 is the time and Sally is in Worcester Park. Sally, question or answer? It's a question. Please carry on. Today is my birthday. Happy, happy birthday. Thank you, darling. And my family are joking about giving me the bump. Yes. And I have always wondered, why do we grab people by the ankles in the wrists and throw them up in the air for their birthday? I just think it's a little bit terrifying. Well, yeah. I mean, is there an answer to it, do you think? Just because you're doing one for each year, so it's only like candles or someone's going to ring in and ask about. Don't ring in and ask about candles. You won't get on. So it's just a way of counting, isn't it? It's just a mode of counting. I think it started in Scotland, oddly, and it may have been called the dumps at one point rather than the bumps, but I mean, there's other ways to count. Yeah, but there's other ways to count than candles. It's more fun, isn't it? Yeah, possibly, you know, don't be such a. Don't be such a nanny state. Don't be such a nanny state. You gotta throw a kid around. It teaches them, teaches them. Robo, what's the word? Robustness. So you want the actual origins. When was it? When did it start happening? How many bumps? Can I ask how many bumps it would be today? Unfortunately, it's 43. 43 bumps. It's neither now nor summit. That is it. You got a big one for the 40th, bigger one for the 50th these days, but you're just in that sort of weird hinterland now for another six or seven years. Yeah. And they're not going to give. Are you doing anything nice? I sound like a hairdresser. I went out on Saturday and got very, very inebriated. 43. I bet you didn't feel right until Tuesday. Yeah, I know. What is that? I don't know, but you can't have that. You've already asked your question. Why do we do the bumps and don't give them to Sally? Because it wouldn't be funny. I like it. It's a good question. And happy birthday once again. 20 to one is the time. Harry's in Lakeside. Harry, question or answer? Hi. Answer. James, carry on. Harry, lovely to speak with you again. It's about the camera lens being round. It has everything to do with the light distribution to the sensor. So for the light to hit the sensor, the light needs to reach the sensor evenly. Correct. When you have a rectangular lens, the distance from the edge of the rectangular to the sensor is not equal distant. Whereas around one a circle, the edge to the center of the circle, that is the sensor, is eco distant. And therefore when you have a round lens, you eliminate the possibility of venating. But even that, you need a very high glass lens and that's why some of them cost thousands of pounds to eliminate the. It's a brilliant answer. It's a brilliant answer and completely definitive. What are your qualifications, Harry? I'm a photographer, a professional photographer and YouTube videographer. What sort of stuff do you specialize in? So mostly is travel, walking around, walking tour in different part of Europe mostly, but also around the world sometimes, but mostly in Europe just walking around, showing the different cities to people. Lovely stuff. Do you want to give your YouTube channel a free advertisement? Oh, that'd be brilliant. Thank you, James. So it's called global Hopper on YouTube. Lovely. We shall push some traffic your way as we speak. And of course you get a round of mystery, a round of applause as well. Thank you so much. Lovely stuff. Thank you, Harry. 1242. Quite a few people asking if I could do the coronation commentary in the style that I'm covering the Dominic rap. The answer is no. I'm off. I'm not in on Saturdays. 1242 is the time. Hang on. Some breaking news for you. The PM is still considering the Dominic Raab bullying report. There is as yet no news to add to the story that broke at about 11:30 this morning and that we have been covering ever since. With absolutely no information to add. I can confirm, John, there is still no new information to add. Back to the studio. Angie's in Telford. Question or answer? Hiya, James. It's question. Please carry on. It might be a bit of a stupid question and I'm a first time caller. I'm so sorry. I like stupid questions. We'd be lost without them. I've got lots of them. But anyway, I'm wondering something that's always. It's been a bugbear for me. Why do Americans call petit theft, spell it in french way? P e t I t. They don't. They do. They don't. They do. Where did you get that from? Because I read a lot of. Well, I see a lot of crime documentaries, read a lot of crime and even dating back to the sixties and seventies, it's always noted as petty p e t I t. You're right as well. And I'm wrong. I often have. The more convinced I am, the more sort of patronizing and condescending I am when I'm telling someone they're wrong or mistreat, the more likely it is that I then turn out to be the one that's wrong subsequently. Well, I mean, is it a mystery? Is it a mystery? Because here's what I mean. Here's what I would think, right? It comes from the French. Yeah. And we have anglicized the spelling and they haven't. And they haven't. Right. I just wondered why they haven't. Well, they had. They. They had. I mean, they're french. What's the name of the dude in Hamilton? The one who the french dude came over? No, not Hamilton. Lafayette. Yeah. French influence on american jurisprudence. I don't. I mean, I'd be surprised. I'd be very surprised if it wasn't the fact that that is the origin of it for everybody. And our petty p ett y is an anglicization of the french word for little because it means the theft of something of low value, whether you're in America or. Or the UK. So that would probably be it. But it's not a stupid question, I'll tell you that for nothing. Thank you. It's a great question, but I don't know the answer, so I will put it on the board with my apologies for being so dismissive of you at the beginning. Oh, no, not at all. Thank you. As I said, I'm a first time caller. And how was it? What would you say, what would you say to people who haven't yet plucked up the courage to ring in but are quite keen to as a, as a. Now. Almost finished. Almost completed. First time caller. Angie, what, what advice would you pass on or otherwise? I would say don't try not to have the nerves because there's no point because, you know, you're very kind as well, so that's lovely. Very kind. Easy to talk to. Well, I do my best. I do my best. Although obviously I'm distracted by the enormous amounts of breaking news unfolding while Angie and I are talking. I can confirm that the PM is still considering the Dominic Rah bullying report that he received at about 11:30 this morning and about which we have been talking ever since without any new information whatsoever. More on that after this. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 it's 1249. And some breaking news for you. The prime minister is still considering the dominate Raab report that he received at 11:30 this morning. I can confirm that absolutely nothing has changed since that point, despite the fact that we've now been talking about it. 1 hour and 20 minutes back to the studio. Gary's in Catford. Gary, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on, Gary. Right, um, I'm wondering when you're sleeping in a, in a room with people having a conversation. What? Right. Yeah. And they say your name, like, okay, we're just example. We'll be having a conversation about James. In a sentence. We mentioned James. Yeah, but you never answer. Yeah. And as soon as we said James, you wake up. What? Why? Whoa. What? What? So you hit. So I'm asleep and you say my name and I wake up. I said it. I said it in a sentence? Yeah. Like, oh, James is a bad radio presenter. He never wakes. Yeah, but as soon as it said James. Oh, I see. It's your tone, isn't it? You're reaching into my sleep when you do that, I think. But. But we've been having that conversation all along. Yeah, but you're not reaching into my sleep. It's a bit like shaking me verbally when you. James. James. Gary, Gary, wake up. Gary. No, I don't believe you, James. So I could be sitting, I could say, gary's a pretty boring caller. I can't believe you've let him on, for example, couldn't I? And then I go, Gary, Gary, Gary. Then it's going to be different. It's going to reach into your dreams. You're going to think, you're going to hear it in your dreams. You're going to do that little bit in the dream where you sort of think, that's a bit weird. Why is someone shouting, Gary, I'm riding a unicorn in Brexitania. What? You don't have to call twice. Just said, gary, James. Well, I don't know, this might just be your friend. I don't know that this is true. You can't just say it once and then everything suddenly. I'll put it on the board. But if you get an answer to that, I'll give you the money myself. Gary, I think. I think it's a spiritual connection. Do you? Before you go, you don't really think I'm a bad radio presenter, do you, Gary? You're the best, James. That's more like you. That woke me up. Thank you very much indeed. We need to know why it's 2080 in Nepal, why we give people the bumps on their birthday, why they call it Petit with a t, with two t's. Theft in France, in America, rather, why you wake up if someone just calls your name once when you're asleep on the camera. When do lambs stop gambling or bouncing around the place? And why is the wind all gusty? Quite a lot to get through. And I gave myself the. I should have given myself the armrest question, but I didn't. So I've also forgotten no one reminded me to recap on the questions until there's seven minutes left. So that's why quite a lot of them haven't been answered. You see what I do there? Effortlessly passing responsibility for my own failures onto my team. That's the kind of behavior that could see me in the cabinet by Christmas. I could be in. Yeah. I have to say Keith's name every 20 minutes to make sure he's still awake. Tyler's in Scarborough. Tyler. Question or answer? I've got a question. I'm sorry, you're not going to get an answer to it, but at least we won't have dead air. Or going back live to Downing street to find out that the prime minister is still considering the Dominic, rob, bullying report. Go on. What's it going to be? If you've ever been to five guys, you'll know that they have complimentary peanuts in those massive boxes. I've always. And they're encased in their natural shell. You sound like an advertising copyright. They're encased in their natural shell. Are they, Tyler? They're in their shell. They're not encased in their natural. So who do you think you are, Marks and Spencers? They're encased. They're encased. This is no ordinary peanut. It's encased in its natural. It's in its shell, mate. Yes. Yes. It's important for the question. Because they're salty inside. Are they? And. And that. Yeah, they're all salty. I don't think they're naturally salty. So I wonder how they make them salty. Really fine salt. Well, they're in the shell. Yeah, but it's porous. It's not watertight. Okay. Wouldn't that just mush the shell? Because I've thought about. No, because you've got salt. You've got salt on your fingers. When you take the nut out of the shell and then you put it in your mouth, what's going to happen? No. Yes. Try it with a knife and fork. So these. No, these things are salty already inside this. You don't know that because you're using your fingers to transfer them from the shell to your mouth and your fingers have opened the shell, which has salt on it. Well, I don't. I don't eat things with salt on my fingers. You've got salt on your fingers because you've opened the shell. Hmm. Actually, it's a bit of a reach. I mean, I would. How can it be a reach? It is a shell. Right. A natural shell encasing a nut. Yeah. Yeah. It's covered in salt. Yeah. How are you going to open it? Well, you could have opened it with your fingers, but where does the salt go? Yeah, but you can have peanuts that are non salty. You know what I mean? You have non salty peanuts and they don't taste salty because they've not had salt sprinkled all over them while they were still encased in the natural shell. But how do you get it through the shell? You don't get it through the shell. You don't have to get it through the shell because it's on the shell and it goes onto your fingers when you open the shell with your fingers. If you don't sprinkle the ones that are encased in their natural shells with salt, if you leave them au naturel, as you would say. And then you. And then you open it up with your fingers. It's not going to be salty when you pop it in your gob, is it? Have I just rang national radio, maid of Wally? No. I don't even know if I'm right. I've never given it any thought before in my life, but I just sort of found myself going off on a bit of an exploratory tangent, which must be correct. Well, we love the tangents. We'd love to. It's all about the tangents. A round of applause for Tyler, I think, and me. It's got to be that. It's got. Until someone rings in, it probably isn't time to say, oh, James, James, James, James. Let's just run through what you just said. Martin's in Cornwall. Martin, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on. Okay. It's about the wind. We spoke before about jumbo jets doing loop the loops and things. Aviation related slightly. When we're flying or when you're doing your navigation stuff, for flying, what you tend to do is anything. The wind above 2000ft is constant. Oh, is it? Yep. Okay. Yep, yep. So you've got to do your calculations. It's sort of trigonometry stuff, but they make it easier with little devices and stuff. Yeah. And you can, if you're above 2000ft, you take the wind as constant. Yeah. Anything below 2000ft is being affected by the friction of stuff on the earth. Turbulence is like buildings, houses, mountains, trees, hills. Yep. Anything like that. Okay, so it's pure. It's pure wind up at 2000ft. The lower you come, the more obstacles it's got to steer around and therefore it hits you in a gust. In a gusterly fashion. Correct. Yeah. That'll be why when you come into land, especially on a slower aeroplane, like a little light aircraft like I fly, will find that the approach down to landing is usually a lot bumpier than the flight. Of course it is. Makes perfect sense. Round of app qualifications. You've already said. Got a private pilot's license. Round of applause. Lovely stuff. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We like that. Lewis is in Putney. Lewis, question or answer? Answer, James. Don't let me down, Lewis. It's Nepalese New Year or the nepalese year. Yes. So this is their calendar goes from. It sort of. It crosses Nepal and India, but it's based from the reign of a king called Vikram Samrat, and so he's a sort of King Arthur ish buddhist type figure. Cool. And so they measure from him. There you go. There it is. So. Religious stroke royal. Yes. Round of applause. Qualifications? I was climbing a mountain in the Himalayas and when we did it and got back into Kathmandu, it was Nepalese New Year, and I found out by asking the locals. A round of applause. Absolutely vintage qualifications there. Coming in at the end from Lewis. The prime minister is still considering the Dominic royal bullying report. Derek's in Hastings. Derek. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. As to the question of why you hear your name when you're asleep. Wakes you up if it's said in a certain way, I think was Gary's point. Well, the theory is transman's theory of attenuated attention. The idea is that our ears are listening all the time. Yes, but a bit of our brain switches it off. Obvious reasons. Yes, but if someone. Something triggers that, like your name or perhaps your occupation, it switches it back on and you become attent. So you attend to it, known as the cocktail party phenomenon, where. Where you might be in a crowd and suddenly something gets your attention. Qualifications? I studied open university psychology about 30 years ago. Fantastic. I love it. A round of applause for Derek. We love the open university as well. My dad got a degree there just so that I wouldn't be the first person in the family get a degree. Did I ever tell you that? It's coming up to 01:00. Can we squeeze in one more? Stevie's in Bangor. Quickly. Stevie. Hi. How's it going? James Graham thanked. Question Ross. Answer. Got. What is it? Peanuts. An answer about peanuts. Yep. They're soaked in brine before they're roasted. Yeah. So therefore the salt penetrates through. Okay, so I was wrong. Yeah, absolutely. There's not going to sell many ice at that speed. Have a round of applause. Thanks very much. Thank you very much. I'm gonna give it to Jen because she bribed me with Stilton cheese. She sent me a pack a box of Stilton cheese last week. So she gets the board game this week. I think that's the least we can do. That's Jennifer in Peterborough. You got some cheese as well? Why are you looking like that? It is time to cross live to Downing street. No, it isn't. It's time to say goodbye for another day. Don't forget that if you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you can also rewind live radio. LBC's shows are there in their entirety as well as the world's biggest podcasts, including the mystery hour back catalogue, self contained chunks of mystery hour that you can listen to, to your heart's content. And there's loads of them, actually. You've been doing it forever. Rewind live radio on global player and download it for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Tom Sawbrook with you at four. Sheila Fogarthy with you. Now, is that Rob's story, one you were really hankering to break in your time? Yes, because we get like that, don't we? Yes. And that stories, I mean, if it. It depends what the result is. My level of hanker. My level of hanker depends on how much of a bully he has been found to. Well, we shall see. I think it might be in my time, but you never know. You never know. We're terribly possessive about these things. Thanks, James.