Why do we cheers 3 times? - 3 Mar 16

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC three minutes after twelve. I've done it again. I had a couple lined up this week. I don't think I've ever actually asked a question of my own on Mystery hour yet. Just like you, I go through life and something presents itself to me. I don't know the answer and I think I'll ask on Thursday. And then Thursday comes around and I've completely forgotten. And this week I remember thinking, oh, I won't forget this one. This one's an absolute humdinger. There's no way I'm going to forget that. I've wondered this for most of my life. No, it's gone. Great. Luckily, you're here with your questions. What is mystery? Our it is the radio equivalent, if you like, of those newspaper features where readers can write in with a mystery a question. Why do we do this? Where does that come from? What's the origin of that? Why do we call that that? Who, where, why, when, what, whither, whence, wherefore, you name it, it's a mystery. And then someone else will ring in with the answer, but immediately, not like a month later or two issues down the line. Every time I say the phone line, it means there's a phone line free. I'm not going to lie to you. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Obviously, that didn't need a precursor promising that, I'm honest. But we do now have to spend five or six minutes at the top of the hour politely asking people to move along, because the question is either one that we've dealt with before or is a little bit boring. So the really, really obvious ones, like, why don't you see white dog poo anymore? Or, I mean, don't waste your time and ours with those. Seriously. And I mean it, don't. But it does also mean that you won't get through at this precise moment in time, but you might get through in a couple of minutes. I'll give you a heads up. Once we've politely invited some people to move along by way of prevention rather than cure, I would remind you that those two circumstances are the ones in which you will be politely invited to move along, so you can't really help yourself with repetition. I appreciate. Although you could go to the mystery hour archive at LBC dot co dot UK, to be absolutely clear, or to give yourself a really good chance of establishing whether or not your question has been asked, even if that's not why you're doing it. You could go just for the amusement value. It's very entertaining. And the second one is dullness. Here's the thing with dullness. If you are possibly going to be the only person who's interested in the answer, then the question is probably going to be dull. Actually, zero. 345-606-0973 is otherwise the number that you need. James is in Wandsworth. James, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Yeah. I hope you're not going to call me an idiot on radio. Basically, I know there are diseases that animals can pass on to humans, like bird flu, and I was wondering if there was any other cases where it can go the other way around. So, from human to animals, can a human pass on a disease to an animal? Yes. What have you got and what pet are you worried about? Nothing. I had a flu the other day and my dog was kind of sitting right by me and I was thinking, wait. I mean, I was. I knew it. There you go. I just unpacked your question. I knew that's what had happened. You did have flu and you were worried about your dog? Yeah. Love it. Well, how is the dog now? She's fine. And are you recovered? Yes. So we can establish from that, not that it's impossible for a dog to catch flu from a human, but that your dog didn't catch flu from you. Yes. Well, we can find out. Can humans pass on diseases to animals? I presume that they can. I mean, if it's blood carried or something like that. I don't know. My favorite mystery. Our questions are the ones that seem sort of fairly obvious, but aren't. And then you find yourself marveling, James, at the fact that you haven't asked it before or you haven't thought about it before. Can humans pass on diseases to animals? If so, what sort of diseases? That's your first question. You start off at ten, if you like. Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Lynn is in Beckenham. Lynn, question or answer? Question. Yes. Why is to do with clothing? Yes. Why is anything below the waist a pair? You have a pair of pants, a pair of knickers, a pair of shorts, a pair of trousers. Anything above the waist is singular. You don't have a pair of shirts or a pair of vests or a pair of jumpers, but you don't have a pair of skirts either. No. Okay. Anything. You know, you know the answer. What have you. What have you got? What you got? You sounded a bit pervy then, Lynn. I was about to ask you what you were wearing. Don't. Don't answer that. Just tell me, how can I put this delicately? What. What have you got below the waist yourself, Lynn? A pair of sneakers and a pair of trousers. No, I meant anatomically. Anatomically? Yeah, anatomically. Lynn, which bit of your body? What bits of your body? Bearing in mind this is a family program, what have you got? What have you got two of lurking beneath your waist at the moment? Legs. Yeah. So all the things you. All the things that you. Yeah, I know. But your shirt doesn't just cover your arms, it covers your torso as well. So all the things you've described would be to cover both legs. If, God forbid, you had one leg and you had adjusted your trousers accordingly. Oddly, it would no longer be a pair of trousers. No, but a shirt covers both. Both arms. But it covers your chest and your back and your neck as well and everything like that. Part of the reason, Lynn, is to do with codpieces. Are you familiar with what a cod piece is? Yes. So why did we need a codpiece? For protection. No, that would be a box. We needed a cod piece because back in the day, the two parts of our trousers were not joined together. So the cob piece would protect your modesty in the absence of a needle and thread. Right. So you had two separate garments that you would pull on as trousers or pantaloons or socks or stockings. So now that they're joined together at the crotch area, eschewing the need for the codpiece, the language has simply stayed where it was before, where you would have two stockings, two trouserings, two undercracker rings and their ergonomics. Whenever it was involved in covering your legs, you would have a pair of them. Okay. I sense I could give you more, Lynn. Oh, then, no. I mean, I don't think I can. I just sense that you want more. I'm not sure I. Well, what the hell else could it be? Woman? Go on, then. Give yourself a round of applause. Thank you very much. I'll get a steward's inquiry on that. I won't be entirely shocked. Duncan is in Acton. Question or answer? Duncan. Hi, James. A question, please, mate. Yes. I'm wondering why we have three. Cheers. Why not one, two, four or five? But three is a very powerful number, isn't it? It's the Holy Trinity. Yeah. Yeah. Well, most stuff boils down. Most stuff boils down to religion, doesn't it? Most. The old old, old traditions are often religious in. No, I'm not going to get around. Twelve disciples. Yeah. Seven. Seven is the perfect number. Or three is the perfect number, if you like de la Soul. But usually three is the perfect. Why do we have three? Cheers. Hip, hip. Hooray. Hip, hip. Hooray. Hip, hip. Hooray. Three. I like that question. What was the first one? The one I got all excited about. Can you remember, Duncan? I can't, I missed it. Diseases, diseases, diseases. And animals mate. Can a human pass on a disease to an animal? All right, there we go. So we've got three chairs and humans and diseases. Thank you, Duncan. Paul is in Guilford. Paul, question or answer? It should be an answer, I hope. No, let's do that again with a little more confidence. Paul, question or answer? I know it's an answer. I know it's an answer. I'm only kidding. Carry on. Okay. Apparently, yes, humans can pass on illnesses to animals. Because when I used to have hamsters as a kid, apparently you're not allowed to pick them up and play with them when you've got a cold because they can get the sickness from it as well. Seriously. So says the book. The book of hamsters. Yeah, yeah. I mean, if anyone knows otherwise. But I just remember it that I just wasn't allowed to play with them and you had a cold because they can pass along. I love this answer. I'm minded to. Well, I'm hoping it's true as well. I'm minded to give you a round of applause. It's sitting there in the back of the brain somewhere, you see? Yes. Maybe Professor Howell can. No, no, no, don't big up. Professor Howell. Don't do that. He'll be busy enough. He'll have plenty to do. We'll have something for him to do. Anyway. I'm going. I think that. I think so. You categorically remember not just being told, but reading that when you've got a cold, don't handle your hamster. Yes, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. First thing came up in my mind, when you've got a cold, don't handle your hamster. You can write your own punchlines to these jokes today. Give Paul a round of applause, please. Really? No, no one likes to show off, Paul. Twelve after twelve takes one to no one. Naz is in barking side. Nas, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Hello, mate, how's it going? Mustn't grumble. What do you want to know? Good. I just wanted to know how much cash the average cash machine has. In there. No, don't do it now. Seriously, mate. Well, I've got the afternoon off. It's not worth it. It's not worth it. It's just not worth it. A, you'll get caught and b, it might be empty. I think we've done this before and I know Christy and Victoria are answering the phones today, both relatively new to mystery house. A slight danger of repetition creeping. And you didn't check the mystery hour archive, did you? I didn't know. You see, I'm going to leave it on the board because I can't remember the answer. I've got 30 grand in the back of my mind for some reason, and that it gets refilled quite regularly because you very rarely find empty ones, except at chucking out time on a Saturday night. So I need to ask you this, though. For reasons of criminal responsibility. Why do you want to know? Just middle curiosity, to be honest. I don't know that I'd buy that. I don't know if that would pass muster in a court of law. I can just see it now. And on the. By the way, I'm on my way to. I'm on my way to get a balaclava. On the 3 March 2016, the defendant rang little known local radio personality James O'Brien to inquire after how much money there might be in the average cash point. Shortly after lunch that day, he turned over his local budgee with a forklift truck and pulled it out the front wall. I don't want you to be getting me involved in anything like that Nazi. I'll try not to. All right. And I'll try and get you an answer in the meantime. It's 1214. William is in reading. William, question or answer? Yeah, question, please. Yes. Who wrote the marriage vowel? Because it seemed to be the same everywhere. So who came up with it? Jeffrey Archer. Jeffrey Archer. Oh, right. Oh, okay. It wasn't. I'm teasing you, William. It wasn't Geoffrey Archer. Do you mean in a christian marriage, a christian wedding? Or do you mean because they're different vows? All right, well, I don't know about that, but, um, they seem to be, you know. Well, that's the christian one, actually. Well, then it will be in the Bible, won't it? No, it's not. It's not. It's not the same in the Bible. We just. In the Bible, it didn't say, you know, for Richard, for our. For health and for sickness, you know, that kind of thing. I tilde do it. But no, he didn't say that in the Bible. Oh, really? Is that not. That's nowhere. It's not in the New Testament or the Old Testament. The rich, poor and sinners. And then I'd go out and suggest it was the book of common prayer, but I don't know that, so I. Sure. It's a good question, William, and I apologize for teasing you with the Geoffrey Archer answer. Okay. As you said before Jeffrey Archer was born. Anyway, it's 1215 is the time, William. Take care. Wedding vows. Who wrote them? Cash machines. How much is in them? Three cheers. Why not two? Or five? Or 27? It's twelve. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 18 minutes after twelve is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Questions that still need answers. Why do we have three cheers? How much money is in a cash machine? And who wrote the wedding vows? Questions of your own on the board. If you've got one. The number remains the same and I think that's pretty much it, actually. We just crack on. It's going to be a good one today. Already used. I can tell. Jason's in Wadebridge, in Cornwall. Jason? Yes, near all Cornwall. Shut ground. Lovely stuff. Um. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, mate. Okay. What it is is, um. Um. If the body gets damaged externally, so you cut the. Cut your skin or if you have an operation. Yeah. And you get internal damage or if you bite your tongue, if you tell a fib or you cut the inside. Cut the inside of your cheek. Yeah. How does the body know what trigger mechanism is involved to send the right cell to repair the damage? And when I gave you a research, an analogy, I said, you know, you wouldn't use emulsion paint on the outside of your house because it'll wash off. I suspect that you and I are. Because I'd come at it from the same angle as you. I suspect that a proper scientist would be sniggering at our ignorance already. Yeah. Probably in thinking that there's something in the brain that goes, send scab cells to left knee, send ulcer cells to mouth. I don't, you know, but I can't go any further than that because in my mind, I'm wondering whether stem cells are relevant to this. Because they're cells that can become anything, aren't they? That's why they're so valuable in research. Chemicals. Some kind of chemical. You're making it worse. You can't sit here, you and me. It's some kind of chemical. That'll be the answer. It's some kind of chemical, Jason. So how does your body know what type of cells it needs to repair the part of the body that's broken or damaged? I like the question, but as I say, I'm warning you up front that we might both end up getting laughed at by scientists on this one. That's okay. I know exactly. Anyway, I don't know about you, but I'm used to it. 20 minutes after twelve is the time. How does the body know? There's one for Professor Hal, if you're listening, and I'd say a lot of you suggesting Professor Hal in the past must have some sort of special line. Things are so busy now, mister. Everybody struggles to get through. But a few people do manage to get through on a regular basis. I do not know how or why Caroline is in Eastbourne. Question or answer, Caroline. Question. Carry on. Why do mammals have a deciduous set of teeth? Because our teeth don't grow. Well, every other bone in the body grows. The jaw bone grows. Teeth aren't bones. Teeth aren't bones. Tooths aren't teeth. Well, I've lost the power of stomach. No, but teeth do grow and they've got nerves and a blood supply and they grow. They're really small when you've got a small baby and then they get bigger all the way up until the time the body decides to shed them. So there isn't any logical reason. I could see why teeth couldn't just carry on growing as the jaw grows at the same rate. Well, I think the answer is evolution, is that there has been no evolutionary glitch whereby we would have been. Because I think teeth are one of the most interesting elements of evolution. Because I think we should have evolved not to have teeth. We should have evolved to have like fantastic sort of blades in our mouth or something like that. They were completely immune to decay and almost made of metal. But we haven't. The answer to your question, why do mammals have to lose our teeth? Is because there's no advantage in it being the other way around that's been discovered evolutionarily, I think, isn't it? Why are you doing sound effects? Sorry about the sound effects that you might be able to hear then my daughter, what's she doing? Why isn't she at school? What's going on? Playing with all sorts of things. Okay. I don't. I don't buy that answer, I'm afraid. Was that a dog or was that your daughter again? No, it's my daughter. No, I just don't buy that answer because our bodies, you know, all our other bones continue to grow and teeth are bones. You can't, you can't make a parallel between teeth and bones. There aren't any bones on teeth. Teeth aren't bones. No, I know teeth aren't bones, but the jaw carries on growing. The jaw does. We don't lose all of our hair suddenly when we get to. Speak for yourself. Speak for yourself, Carolyn, you're a bit older than that, like my husband. But we don't lose all of our hair suddenly when we're, we're seven years old because hair isn't. Hair isn't bone. So. No, but we do, we do lose it all. I mean, it keeps. No, it keeps. You. Do you have to cut it from birth? Your hair is growing and you cut it, otherwise you'd be covered in it. I mean, I like your question and I'm wasting time trying to answer because it's clear to both of us already that I haven't got a Scooby Doo. Isn't it? A little bit. I think she's got a better clue than I have. The little one. Yeah. Eleven months. I've realized she was younger than I thought initially. So I'll redraw my question about why she isn't at school. No, no, she's not at school. She's on the floor. Why, why do mammals have to lose their teeth? Our teeth? It's a lovely question. I apologize for spoiling it with a clumsy attempt at an answer. 24 minutes after twelve. Elena is in. Morden questioner. Elena, I've got an answer for the cells. The cell replication. How does our brain know. We've got to get this right on Jason's behalf. How does the brain know what cells to send to the damaged part of the human body? First of all, it doesn't. No, I know. Go on. Basically, the body releases histamines, so when damage is made to any part of the, of the body, it releases histamines and the histamines go through the nervous system and it tells you where extra blood is needed. So basically a mesh is created by red blood cells, white blood cells and plasma to make up the actual replication. So to fill up the hole made by, let's say you cut yourself, the mesh basically just fills up that hole. So bleeding stops, for example. And then after that, all cells in the body are exactly the same. They have the same DNA in them. It's just whether they replicate around the same cells. So they will just generate themselves as the same. So let's say a liver cell generate replicates itself exactly the same as the cell next to it. What are your qualifications? I did a level biology. That's all right. Why are you laughing? It's more than I did. That was the most interesting part, I think, of my whole biology. Biology career. So the histamines alert the brain to the need for help, need more blood. Yeah. And then that makes sense. And the point at which the damage is the cells turn up, but they don't turn up, they just. What's it called? Replicate. Extra blood. Yes. From. From. From the normal cell. So, you know, if we take jason on directly, he's cut his knee. How come it doesn't grow an ear cell? The answer is, it's going to grow whatever cells it's found itself in the middle of. It's going to replicate wherever the damage is. Yeah. Do you think you deserve a round of applause? I think you do. But I wouldn't be amazed if someone else came on with more. I don't. Hope you don't take offense. That's the gist of it. Yeah. I like gist. Just. We're in the business of gists. Just good. It's. I give her a gist of a round of applause. That's more than a gist, but I think she does look. That's excitement. Joy. Matt's in reading. Matt, question or answer? I'm just excited to be talking with a question, to be honest. Good man. Go on. I've got a six year old and a ten year old. And every morning as we struggle to get them out of the house, I use the expression chop chop. Yes. To hurry them along. And it wasn't until my ten year old said, why'd you say that? I had to. I sort of got stopped in my tracks and I thought, I know a man who might know that. Or at least I know a man who might be able to put it to a large audience to find the answer for me. Chop top. Why do you say chocolate? Chop top? I was thinking. I was thinking maybe cooking, but that doesn't really make sense. Karate, essentially. Unlikely, though. Again, unlikely. I don't know why you would say to someone, come on, chop chopping karate. To do it faster. No. What about if you were not in the army and you want someone to walk faster, you would maybe ask them to chop chop. And that might be some kind of, you know, some. Don't try and answer it, man. You've got your question out there now stop picking up your part. I'm happy to be on. Yes, aren't we? All. Aren't we all? Mary Poppins says spit spot. She does, doesn't she, for chop chop. She says it's because I've started saying that to the kids and I've just realized why I must have got it off. Mary Poppins. Spit spot. Spit spot. But chop chop. I mean, they both make as much sense as each other. The origins of Chop chop. We'll get that for you. We're only allowed one origins of at a time, so don't ring in with another one. Chop chop. I knew the teeth question. This is really embarrassing. If you follow me on twitter, you'll see that the question's been answered at Mister Jamesob. But do you know when you think you know something but it just seems so implausible that you don't say it out loud? I knew that. I knew that. Oh, man, it's too late now. I can't have the round of applause. It's a bit like when you write a word down. Do you ever do this or is it just me? Sometimes I think I give you too much. I share too much on the radio. Do you ever write a word down and you're sure it looks wrong? And you stare and stare, especially even on a screen, you stare at it and stare. You think, that's wrong. That's wrong. And you check and it's not wrong. That's how I got there with the teeth. Question about babies. Why do we have teeth? Why don't our teeth grow? And I thought I knew the answer and I did know the answer, but it was such an odd answer in my brain. Although correct, I bottled saying it out loud. There's a lesson for us all there. Don't ask me what the lesson is. 1229 is the time Warren is in Maidstone. Warren, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on, mate. It's to do with the cash machines and what they hold. How much cash can a cash machine hold? When a cash machine can hold cash, basically your average cash machine will have 60,000 pound in it. Are you sure? Yeah, it's basically. You've normally got four cassettes in there which are filled up with notes. Two lots of cassettes are made up with 20 pound notes, which have 20,000 in each. And two cassettes with ten pound notes in which have 10,000 each, making 60,000. Obviously, where people use them for the day, it goes down. And it can. You can have cash machines which have like five pound notes or things like that in. What are your qualifications? I used to fill them up. I can't really argue with that. I'm just going to have a quick word with Alan in seven oats. Alan, what have you got? Afternoon, James. Yeah, it was a question that was actually answered a couple of months ago from an ex employee, but I heard that it was 25,000 pounds per cassette and there could be up to seven cassettes, depending on the location. And it was explained at the time that there could be seven between five and seven cassettes in a very popular area, say, in the west end, it might go up more. Warren, you mentioned four cassettes, but I suppose on a very popular one you could have more. Yeah. Again, it can vary. I think there might have been a confusion with the 25,000 customer caching transit in and out of shops and. But, yeah, Warren, I'm going to give you the round of applause. I'm going to give you seven, eight of this round of applause. One 8th of it is for Alan. All right, just. Just. Just to be polite. Good. Right, boys, 12:30 is the time. Eleanor Noakes is here. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. 26 minutes to one. Thank you for listening to LBC. Thank you for choosing LBC. Who wrote the wedding vows? We should be doing that one. I think we've gone in on cash machines. We can cross that one off the list. Similarly with cells origins of the phrase chop chop or chip chop, when you're telling your children what to do. John on Twitter, I think you might have got that right, mate. But if you haven't got the guts to ring it in, you haven't got the guts to ring it in, I'd back yourself. But then again, how are you going to prove that you're right if you've already told me on Twitter that you're not sure you are right, you just think you might be and it seems plump. Yeah. Teeth. Why do we have teeth? Why don't they grow? Why do our teeth have to fall out? Why do mammals have this weird arrangement in their gobs? Any of those and anything you've got as well, zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Laura is in Stevenage. Question or answer, Laura? I have an answer, James. Wow. Yes. At least I think I do. I'm trying to be positive. So, yes, good. I like it. I like it. So it's the answer to the teeth question. Yes. We are actually born with our teeth developed, mostly developed in our skull, so they develop in the. When we're a fetus, about four or five weeks. And if you actually google x rays or images of skulls of children, you can see the teeth sitting in around the jaw, the adult teeth. And it's really unnerving. It is, yeah, it is a bit. So someone's just sent me a picture of a baby's skull and you can absolutely see all the adult teeth packed in underneath the non adult teeth. Yeah. I mean, they continue to develop the enamel, of course, when you're an adult, but if so, you're talking about evolution and permanent. So our teeth and things like that. But if our teeth grew like our bones, then we wouldn't have to have two sets of teeth, surely we would just have one set of teeth because they would just naturally go along with our. But I'm assuming that that's not biologically possible. Well, it hasn't. Well, it just hasn't happened in an evolutionary fashion. I can think of a few things that might have provided an evolutionary advantage, but the relevant. What's it called? What's the word I'm looking for when it's not a glitch? There's a proper word for it in darwinian evolution, when the thing that happens that then gets replicated in subsequent generations. No, Laura. Oh, I know what you're talking about. And the words on the tip of my tongue. Hang on, Jesse's on. Do you know what, Jesse? Do you know what that word is? No. No, I don't. All right, I'll be back in a sec. Any joy yet, Laura? No, sorry. What's it called? What's it called? The genetic. The genetic. What is it, the thing of me? What's it? Anyway, Laura gets a round of applause. What? Laura gets a round of applause and if you want to see what a baby skull full of teeth looks like, then you can head over to at Mister Jamesop. Someone will tell. Actually, I'll just go to my inbox now and you'll be shouting at me at full volume. Jesse's in tune, but I shouldn't keep you waiting any longer, Jesse, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Are humans capable of using 100% of their strength? What does the mind limit what we can use? I've got to split the questions up, because if the answer to the first bit is no, it wouldn't necessarily be because the mind limits, would it? There could be a different reason for why, but just going. Are humans capable of using 100% of their strength? What exactly do you mean by that? Well, as in, is our bone structure strong enough to withstand the sort of strength our muscles could exert? So if we were to use 100% of our strength, could it damage our body? Mutations, Jesse. Mutations, mate. That's. That was the word we were looking for. I don't quite get what you mean there. No, I know you don't. I bet everyone else does. I'm just. I'm just putting out there mutations. Right now. Back to Jesse. So, do you mean in a way that our muscles might be able to do more, but our bones stop them from doing it or something? Or are you thinking of those moments of panic where people can lift up cars off crushed children and that sort of thing? Yeah, like that type of thing, yeah. Okay. We need to get a quote. We need to get a question a bit clearer, don't we? Okay. Okay. Well, okay. What I mean is. It's a good question, mate. I'm not. I'm not having a crack at you. I just can't quite unwrap it. Yes, in that. What you just said about people lifting. Lifting cars up to stop trust children. If we was capable of doing that all the time. Well. Or are we capable of doing that all the time? Or is that just in the spur moment thing? Yeah. All right. Now, could I go outside and just lift up a car if I so wish to? Well, no, you couldn't. So. Yes, so. So can we use 100% of our strength or can we not? I put it on the board. All right, but I don't know that we've nailed it, Jesse, you and I. I don't know if we've got clear enough. Okay. Do you see what I mean? Because I don't mean what would it look. I mean, even. Even if you could pick a car up, you might not be using 100% of your strength. Yeah, okay. I see what you mean. Yeah, you mean, so. So what can we. Let's find out. If you can answer that, I'll give you the money myself. 1239 is the time, Jesse. Thank you. Sunnah is in Islington. Suna. Question or answer? Hi. Answer. Carry on. Okay, so, for the origins of the words chop, chop. The phrase. Yes, basically, it's from english seamen that picked it up from chinese cantonese speaking workers. Back in the 18 hundreds, I think. So there was a cantonese phrase that basically translated to hurry, hurry and chop chop. Have you been online, Sunnah? No, this actually, because I forgot to mention in my introduction to. Hang on a minute. I forgot to mention in my introduction. So you're not allowed to look anything up. That's the whole point of mystery. I know. You know, in school, the. We had this english teacher who used to say it all the time. And one of the students kind of posed this question and we did look it up at that time. So I know it from way back when. I like it. Yes, I think. I think you've done enough. Do I get my round of applause? Let's wait and see. Oh, there it is. Happy days. 1240 is the time Steve is in Barnett. Steve, question or answer? Answer. James. Go on, mate. Well, I was the one that just tweeted you the photo of the baby skull, so I've on a roll. You are on a roll, Stephen. Come on, mate, let's go for it. Come on. While you're winning, you're winning. Can you use 100% of your muscle? Your muscles? I'm a visual effects artist and we did a tv show about people that have survived horrible situations and they're basically. A rock climber was climbing up a rock face and the rock fell on him and it weighed about a ton and a half and he was going to die. He was sliding off the cliff and he managed to push it off him. Wow. And essentially fired all of his body muscles at the same time to lift it. And the result was that everything tore away from, basically your muscles are stronger than your tendons. So he tore himself to pieces. Yeah, we saw the photos of him afterwards. It was pretty horrific. Everywhere was bruised. His pectoral muscles had detached from his ribs. But basically that's why your brain limits it. Better than being dead, of course. Yeah. But he did flip a rock off him, so he didn't have much choice at the time. Flipped a rock off him. There's quite a lot of double entendres on the program today. We've had don't hold your hamster when you've got a cold. And now we're flipping a rock off. I don't know what that says. I don't know what that says about anybody. I mean, they call it hysterical strength, don't they? Jesus. Reminded me of that hysterical strength, and it isn't good for you. So the body dials it down, the flood of adrenaline causing huge stress. But beyond the chemical stress, it actually can cause you to effectively rupture yourself. Yeah, I mean, he was quite unwell for a long time afterwards, apparently. But again, you don't know. And this is what I tried to say to Jesse, it doesn't. The 100% is an impossible measure, isn't it? You're never going to know if he have been even stronger in those circles. You're never going to know for sure. Because it was 100%. Because the tendons detached, so he couldn't possibly use any more muscle because there's nothing for it to pull on. Yeah. Okay. I like this a lot. Qualifications. I know you've already told us, but tell us again. Vision effects animator. And why did you have. Why did you have a picture of a baby's skull at your fingertips? I just known that because that I saw it on Reddit a few years ago and it's always creeped me out ever since. There you go. It does creep you out. I've been telling people to go and look at it. Don't look at it. If you're of an easy disposition, you'll never unsee it. It's a really unnerving. It's a comment on mortality, in a way, isn't it? It's just strange. I think it's based on a theory called thalassophobia. And if you don't know what that is, then I can't even say it. I don't know what it is. Give Steve a round of applause to distract from my temporary ignorance. Thank you, Steven. Sean's in Oval. Shaun, question or answer? Question? Jane? No, I've just seen what your question is and I'm just going to have a quick word with the producer. Christy, do not let me. Do not let me challenge what he is about to say. Under no circumstances allow me to challenge what he is about to say. Sean, what's your question? Why is scratching your back more satisfying than scratching any other part of your body? I think it's true. I think it's true. Once you start scratching your back, you can't stop. Yeah. What? Can I ask you an odd question? Yeah. How old are. How old are you? I'm in my twenties. Yeah, I thought you might be. I thought you might be. How can I put this delicately? I remember when I was younger, my dad would enjoy a good scratch, and I remember being baffled as to why he enjoyed that particular kind of scratch. But now I'm in my mid forties. I'm not challenging your analysis because where you are right now in life, scratching your back is the most satisfying thing you can scratch. But when you're in your mid forties. Sean. Christy, I told you not to let me do this. You may discover that there is a part of your anatomy that delivers a scratch based satisfaction that at your tender time of life, you will find impossible to believe. I'm saying no more than that. Fair enough. I'm saying no more than that, but. Okay, so what we're looking for is why is scratching some parts of your body more satisfying than others? Yeah, basically, yes. Because I can't let you go all in on the back, I'm afraid, for reasons that it's far too early in the day to explain. Sean, thank you. Thank you. No, thank you. And Sean, actually, before you go, bring me back in 20 years when that morning is dawned. All right. Okay, I will do. Coming up at one on LBC, Sheila Fogarty. In the last few minutes, a man who went online dating in order to rape women has been sentenced to life in prison. How safe do you feel meeting people online? Leading Britain's conversation. Sheila FogarTy this afternoon, from one on, LBC 1249 is the time you are listening to LBC. Right. I've actually got room for some more questions. It's been a particularly productive mystery out of this, but it means we've answered more questions than we usually have by this point in proceeding. So if you've got a question and you haven't already been politely invited to jog on, then ring in with it now. You've got your better chance. Best chance since 12:10 of getting through. Zero. 345-606-0973 can we get rid of people waiting with answers that are clearly not true? Anything speculative or thinking out loud I'm not interested in. There's no way that we have three cheers because hip hip hooray contains three words. For example, zero three. No offense. Paul 034-560-6097 is the number you need. If you've got a question, you can get in with it quick. Then we've got time still to get you an answer. I hope the one I can't believe we haven't done better with is the wedding vows. Who wrote the wedding vows? Zero. 345-606-0973 is that the only one left? Oh. And three cheers, of course. Who wrote the wedding vows and why do we have three cheers? Luke is in pool. Luke, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. It might be controversial with you, this one, because it could be considered motoring, but I'll let you decide. It's got through so far. Go on. When you see, that's why tried. When you see a car on the tv, let's say something like Top Gear or those type of shows, the wheels appear to be going backwards. Yes. Now, I saw this as a child on tv and then I recently, my daughter said it to me. She said, why is that? I thought maybe it was something to do with the cameras. But then, digital cameras today, doesn't it happen in real life as well when you're on the motorway? That's. I don't think it does. I think it does. Does it? I think so, yeah. Should I go and check and come back? No, don't. I don't want you. I can't be. I imagine if I got caught telling my listeners to go out and play in traffic, I'd have all sorts of sorts of problems raining down on me. Let me just do a quick show of hands in the studio. Do you recognize this in real life or is it. Yeah, it does happen in real life as well. You look at it. It's to do with the. It's to do with the speed and your brain's ability to process it. I think the wheel is moving fast. Look. It would look. I would imagine it might look a little bit stuttered in its movement, but not to actually look like it's going the other direction. Oh, well. And maybe it doesn't happen. Does it happen not on camera? Or maybe it is on camera, and then it would be the frame rate of the camera, wouldn't it? So you'd be skipping, but. Shall I shut up and see if we can get someone who knows the answer to ring in? Luke? Yes. Although it might be one that they don't ever. We don't ever get there. I think we might even have done it before, but I don't. I don't want to get too repetitive because it rings a bell. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. 1252 is the time when you see the vehicle. Is it. I don't know if it happens in real life or just on telly, but you certainly recognize the wheels appear to be going backwards. If it's just on telly, it will be the frame rates of the camera. And I'll take a retrospective round of applause. But I'll wait until someone who sounds at least as if they know what they're talking about rings in before I do that. Lawrence is Inisha. Lawrence, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. It's an answer, Lawrence. I can guess which one you're doing, and I fear it's one that we thought we'd already answered, but you're going to go further with it, given the profession from which you retired after many glorious decades. Okay. By the way, James, I wear a pair of spectacles which are considerably above my waist. They are, but what do they do? They correct my vision. Correct. Okay. I'll then proceed to teeth. But you've got two lenses. So it's a pair of lenses. Okay? Yeah. Okay. All right, I'll proceed to teeth anatomy. I won't go into, but if you were a rabbit, you would continually grow your teeth because at the other end of the tooth, the bit that sticks out of the gum that's below is an open apex where the tooth continues to grow. Same with rats. Yeah. Now your two girls are shedding teeth. They are. When they were born, they had things called tooth germs in their skulls, not fully formed teeth. As they get older, the calcium is laid down in the epithelium of the tooth germs. And therefore, when they're six months, give or take, the first two teeth come through, etcetera, etcetera. When they're older, about six or seven, the first teeth, the deciduous teeth, called deciduous because they fall out, are pressed underneath by the ensuing tooth germs of the permanent teeth. And therefore the root gets dissolved when the tooth grows through the permanent teeth, as they have in their heads. Now, they're about nine, I think, aren't they? Give or take? Yes. The roots would be forming almost completely. Now, to give you an example, if they were to unfortunately break a tooth and need a root filling. Yes. The root filling into a tooth that has an open apex is very difficult, but if you need a root filling. I see, yes, you have an, you have an. It's called an, it's called an apical foramen. That's about 0.5 of a millimeter. And the endo. And the endodontist would fill down to that hole. I'm going to give you a round of applause for a whole heap of reasons, but I don't think you've challenged the original answer. You've just, you've just provided us with an astonishing level of dentistry vocabulary. Okay? So I'll give you a round of applause for that. But I'm not withdrawing the other one that I gave to the original, call it, because she kind of. I mean, it is the fact that they are there already. That's why they don't grow in the sense that the original questioner meant. But I could listen to you all day, Lawrence, with your endo whatsits and your cruciform bits and Jason's in Mill Hill. Question or answer, Jason? Answer, James. Carry on. It's the, it's the one to the way that the wheels look like they're spinning. And it's to do with frame rate. Frame rate? Frame per second. Rate of film. Yes. Which is 24 /second yes. Traditionally. And so because it oscillates, it picks up the spokes depending on how fast you're going. Sometimes it looked like it's rotating forward, sometimes it looks like rotating backwards. And you get the same helicopters. You know, sometimes you see the airplane propellers. Yeah. They look like they're rotating really slowly. They're not. That's just because it coincides with the oscillation of the frame rate per second that it's filming. Why you can't film tv screens. They always used to look really bad. They always CGI tv screens in on film? Yes. Qualifications? I've been on quite a few film sets and I was on the film set of the world and I spoke to Pablo, who was the filter and film editing manager for the cans when they came in. That's a brilliant. I mean, that's some of my favorite qualifications of all time. Do you want the good news or the bad news? Good news. Well, I just gave you the good news. That is one of my favorite answers of all time, and it's definitely right. The bad news is I'd already nailed it, mate. Just without as much edge, expertise and knowledge as you. I said frame rate. I said the words frame rate, so I'm having the applause. No, don't do that. I was teasing him. Mark, don't start. I'm not really going to take the applause. What sort of monster do you think I am? I was just toying. I was toying with him. Jason, I. That's gone all wrong now, isn't it? Honestly, I just can't get the staff these days. Jason, have a round of applause with my compliments. Thank you very much. That's quite all right, mate. So Hail's in Dubai. So, hail, question or answer? Hi, James. Answer. I should make more of a fuss. Dubai. Wow. Go on, carry on. Yeah, it's the three. Hip, hips. Hip, hip. Hooray. Why do we do three cheers? It's from three Hail Marys. Really? Yeah. You're gonna have to do more than that, mate. When do we do three Hail Marys? Well, it's like a traditional Roman Catholic. No, isn't prayer, isn't it? Yeah, one Hail Mary is, but three. Three Hail Mary's isn't. It is. It's like. No, it isn't. It's a form of devotion in it. For a catholic church, saying it once is. Saying it three times doesn't carry any special weight. You might get it as a penance in confession. The priest might say, you've done what? How many times? Good Lord. Three Hail Marys for you. But that's not something you'd cheer. You'd hang your head in shame and look forward to the eternal fires of damnation. It's the reason. The reason you do it three times. No, isn't. Where did you get this from? I went to a catholic school. Well, they lied to you. Not just about that either, I wager. How? Really? Sounds like it should be true. This is awful. This is a sound of someone's childhood being dismantled from underneath them. It all sounds like it should be true. So ho. It all sounds like it should be true, my friend. And then you grow up. Fred's in Ilford. Fred. Question or answer? Answer, James, quickly. Marriage. Ralls. Who wrote them? You were right. Thomas Cranmer, book of Common Prayer. Yeah. So you're half right. Well, I'll show it. What do you mean, half right? I was fully right. You didn't get the Thomas Cranmer. Give him the round of applause. Suitably religious flavor towards the end of mystery out there. That's it for another week. We'll do it all again tomorrow morning from ten. This is LBC. I am James O'Brien. Here is Sheila. Folks.