Does Robert De Niro ever die in a film? - 23 Jul 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet at LBC text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Five minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where we depart from the rest of the week rather violently at twelve noon on Thursdays, and find ourselves instead spreading love, knowledge and laughter across the nation. The way it works is you have almost certainly in your mind a question that needs an answer. You know that there must be an answer. You've just thus far been unable to find it. Somebody else listening to the program currently knows the answer. You ring in with the question, they ring in with the answer, and it really is as simple as that. The radio equivalent, if you will, of those newspapers, features, notes and queries. Q and A's. Call them what you will. The only difference is this is live and immediate and satisfaction is almost guaranteed. Should we crack on, actually, and do without the introduction this week? I think we should. The only thing I'd add is that you won't get involved if you're boring. So rude. I don't know. I've never found a better way of saying that you won't get involved if the question's dull. Michael and Sandra, I'm afraid the decision is final. With and Jones, the engineer, they sit in judgment. If it's considered dull, you won't get through, get more interesting and ring in with a better question. Similarly, repetition, not that brilliant at this. Quite often these days, people answer a question using knowledge they've accrued from listening to a previous mystery ad that we've all forgotten about. So we generally try to keep repetition to a minimum. And that's it, isn't it? Repetition, dullness, ringing. I only say the number if I've got a phone line. Free. Zero 345-606-0973 there's one free now. And the Twitter mystery hour as well. We should try and do that, try and get a question up there that's coming on the hashtag during the week from someone who only listens to the podcast. Oh, that's nice for Poppy. She goes, and baby just stopped crying and fell asleep. Perfect timing. Mystery hour. Let's get this party started. Tracy's in Hemel Hempstead. Tracy, what's your question? Oh, hi. How are you doing, James? I'm great, thanks. How are you? Good, yeah, I'm very well, thank you. So I just wondered why we dance. Well, you and me. Yeah. Why do. I mean, it's such an instinctive thing. Because, I mean, if you watch, if you see a baby, really, really tiny, when they hear a beat, you know, they start to dance. And so obviously it's not a learned thing, it's just an instinctive thing that we do. And I want to know, like, evolutionary, why do we dance? Why do we dance? I love this question. We could almost do an hour on this, couldn't we? It's a bit like, why is gold valuable? The question which began mystery hour about a million years ago, why do we dance? Why do we dance? Why do we dance? Why do we dance? Why do we dance? I mean, at my stage of life, you dance. At my stage of life, you dance to embarrass your daughters. That's the main purpose of dancing when you're 43 years old. But I still derive some pleasure from it. I'm sure you've got some lovely shapes. I have got some amazing moves. Now you come to mention it, actually, the helicopter is the most. I went through a period in the early 1990s where I had a ponytail that I used to, for the purposes of. Why are you laughing at the ponytail? I've hardly started for the purposes of dancing. I used to put my ponytail on the top of my head rather than the back of my head, so I'd get those little scrunchies and I have my ponytail coming out the top of my head. And I used to stand in the middle of the hacienda spinning around. And that move was called the pineapple. Right. It's a strong look. Yeah. You don't sound as impressed as. Well. No, you sound about as impressed as everybody else was at the time. Why do we dance? Who's going to answer it? An anthropologist, a biologist, a zoologist or a mixologist. See, I love this. Why do we dance? You're on. Thank you, Tracy. Perfect start. Mohammed is in Pearlie. Mohammed, question or answer? Question. Come on, then. I'm going bald and yet I can grow a full beard. Yes. Why? I mean. What? Well, because, I mean, you're growing hairs out of different places. Yeah, but it's not that far from my head. It feels unfair, doesn't it? You almost want to sort of put your head on upside down in the morning. I mean, the answer is sort of at the. I feel like it's just within reach, but I can't quite remember what it is. How can you grow a big, bushy beard but still be going bald at the same time? I'm in the same boat as you, Mohammed. But my beard's a little. A little short at the moment. Follicles. Growing it again? Well, I'm sort of growing it again. You see, most of my employers let me have a beard, but. But ITV don't, so I have to show. Shave it off whenever I do work for ITV. When are you on ITV again? Well, not for a while at the moment. So that's why the beard is coming back. But I'm on telly tomorrow night and I will be fully bearded. You're on tomorrow night? Yes. What time? I can't tell you because there'll be someone on LBC presenting a radio program and it looks like I'm trying to nick their customers, which would just be rude of me. Thank you, Mohammed. It's ten minutes after twelve. How come Muhammad can grow a lovely bushy beard while going bald? And why do we dance? Why do we dance? That's like a Desmond Morris type question, isn't it? Why do we dance? Drums. I reckon it all began with drums. You just bang stuff and you quite like what it does to your brain. Or boom, check a check, boom. And then sort of you start just nodding your head. I should stop now. I forgot the cameras aren't on today, are they? No one wants to see that Michael's in Mary Lebow. Michael, question or answer a question, please. James. Yeah. I was watching that film casino last night and I can't figure out any film, what Robert De Niro died in. Is that your question? Has Robert De Niro ever died in any film? Yeah. Does he have a policy not to die? Give him a round of applause, please. Absolutely, love. Just rattling through Robert De Niro films. Did he die in it? Didn't he die in awakenings? Or did he just go back into his vegetative state? He went back in the state. He might have died, but they just wrote it afterwards. But you never see him die anywhere, even in the godfather. He went on to godfather three. Didn't he die in godfather three? No, he wasn't in it. He was in two, wasn't he, as a young man? Yeah, of course he was. No, he was the young Milan Brando, wasn't he? He was Vito Corleone. Come on. I've seen a lot of De Niro films. What else? Raging bull. Doesn't he die in raging bull? No. No, he doesn't. Comedian. That's not raging bull. Yes, it is. At the end, he's a boxer. He's a boxer in range. Oh, he's on the stage at the end. Isn't he being like a sort of. Yeah, yeah. Robert De Niro ever died in a film? That might be one of my favorite questions, but that. And why do we dance? Now, I feel bad for Mohammed with his beard and his bald head, but those two questions. Why do we dance? And has Robert De Niro ever died in a film? We gotta get answers for these two. Casino's a good movie as well, but he doesn't die in that either. What's the. All right, we'll find out. Just. That is literally a yes, isn't it? You just need to name one film in which Robert De Niro dies. Robert de Niro's waiting. Steve's in Wiltshire. Steve, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. Right. Where I live, they're constructing a new canal, and there's part of the canal that's not connected. It's got no water supply and it's just filled up with rainwater. And when I was walking by, it's got little fish in it, like minnows and sticklebacks. So how do they get in there? Because there's no other supply to that water. That section. Same with the garden pond. I suppose if you've got. You know, you end up with. No, I know. They usually do buy the fish, but. But they often don't. Yes. How did the little fish get into a water, a water reservoir, canal, lake, when there's no human intervention or water course leading to it, that they could have swum up. That's what I meant. Yeah. I like that question a lot. Did you see the picture in the paper today of the dolphin and the salmon? No. No, I haven't, mate. It's mad. You know when salmon sort of leap? Yeah. And they go upriver or upstream and they've got that ability to leap. There's a photograph and it's one of those magical moments that would never have happened with old fashioned cameras. The salmon has leapt just as a dolphin has opened its mouth and the salmon has effectively leapt right into the dolphin's gob. It's a fantastic picture. Can we get it on the website? I always go a bit surreal during mystery out. Right, let's find out for Steve why there are. Well, it's not. It sounds like a medical condition. Why has Steve got sticklebacks in his canal? Get a cream for that, Steve. I think it's 30 minutes after twelve. Robert De Niro has died in films. My inbox is going nuts. Can any. Oh, thank goodness. Dan's in. Dan's in Bromley. Quick. Dan. Before my inbox melts. Okay. It was a brilliant film called Heat with al Pacino, Robert de Niro, Val Kilmer and Tom Sizemore. Yes. Robert de Niro is a bank robber, al Pacino is a cop, and at the end, al Pacino kills him. And also in Cape Fear, he dies, doesn't he? He gets killed at the end of Cape Fear as well, after terrorizing. You don't see him die, though. Oh, you're. Good impression. You could get the impression that. Oh, you're good. All right, then. Okay, so you've nixed my. You've nixed my. What was the last one I just said? Cape fear. Yeah, you've nixed Cape fear. What about backdraft? Did he die? I think so. I don't think he did, no. He got blown up at the end. It's generally not good for your health. No, he got impaled on something. He died because he served a writ on the guy at the end. So, no, he didn't die in that either. Am I right in thinking you're a bit of a de Niro fan man? I am, actually. You're talking to me, this 1215 round of applause for Dan. That's all we needed. We only needed one. So even if there are loads of others, do not ring in with them, because we need the switchboard for all the other nonsense that's going on, including why has Steve got sticklebacks up his canal? And why has Mohammed got a bald head and a big beard? And why does Tracy dance? Or indeed anybody else. It's 1215. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 19 minutes after twelve. You are listening to mystery hour on LBC with me, James O'Brien. Robert De Niro died in heat. If you don't know what mystery hour is all about, that might seem like something of a non sequitur. If you do, it won't. We also seek solutions to the following mysteries. Why do we dance? How can you grow a beard while going bald? And how can there be fish in a canal that has a newly built canal that's only filled up with rainwater and has absolutely no link to a watercourse that is? Nothing is feeding into it? Simon Zin, Wembley. Question or answer? Simon. Hi, James. It's a question, please. Yes, I would like to know how or indeed when, where punctuation first came about after all years of the written word, who suddenly decided we need a full stop or a comma or a. You don't think it would have been simultaneous. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, as soon as the written word was invented, they had to find a way of, you know, the old eats, shoots and leaves thing. They'd have to find a way of conveying meaning using pauses. And that would be punctuation mark. But Frammel must have discovered it also. One language must have come up with it first. Yeah, well, I would have thought so. Yeah. No, so would I. Now, you say it out loud. I don't think that the full stop or question mark could have simultaneously come about in. No, not all puncture. You can't have that. You can't start breaking it down and saying, oh, hang on, though. What year was the semicolon? When was the inverted comma introduced? One punctuation, the first ever full stop, comma exclamation? I wonder what it was, the first ever punctuation mark. No idea. I'd love to know. Why do you want to know? Is it because, like me, you're just sort of interested in odd things that are linked to words and language? I'm very interested in old things and I'm very interested in language and grammar and literature. Punctuation. Who invented punctuation, really, is the question? Absolutely. You're on, mate. I love it. Love it. Simon. Well played. Chris is in Battersea. Chris, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. I've got a question for you. Yeah. I want to know, why is it, when you've made a mistake, when you're doing something, people say you've made a boo boo? What is a boo boo? Boo boo is a mistake. Yeah. When you're doing something in work. No, no, I know. I know what it is. You don't have to explain that to me. I just. Sometimes I say. I repeat things back to people to buy myself a little bit of time to work out the answer to the question. But it's not working on this occasion. It's not kicking in on any level smarter than the average bear boo. But could it come from Yogi Bear? I don't know, but my dad used to say it, so I now say it. And it's one of them things for years that I wonder if it's military. I wonder if it has a military origin. And speaking of military origins, how religiously do you listen to mystery out Chris? Occasionally. What? That's the wrong answer, pal. Well, I've got a. Work. Work schmuck. Work schmuck. There was a phrase that popped up last week, some of which are the week before we were trying to find out the origins of the phrase how do you like them apples? And I got told by a taxi driver called Terry, who picked me up the other day. I now know the origins of the phrase how do you like them apples? So, hello, Jeff. Hello, Terry. And actually, hello to the lads in Jerry's as well, the off license on old Compton street, who are extremely nice to me when I popped in to pick up my prescription the other day. So I know the answer to the how do you like them apples? I don't know if I can reveal it here, though, because that would be kind of going against the rules of mystery if no one's actually asked the question, why is a mistake called a boo boo? Let's go to Matt in Serbita. Matt, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. Yeah, it's a question. Yes. Why is red wine kept in green bottles? And. And why is white wine sometimes kept in white bottles? You know this. I don't know why. You must know it. You must know it. I've got a clue. Well, the red wine must react to light in a way that white wine doesn't. Yeah, but wineries are also kept in the dark anyway, so some are. Some is a cellar is more about temperature than light for white. I. I think. I think the tannins must react to light, sunlight, in a way that white wine doesn't. Don't you? There can't be any other answer once you've eliminated the impossible. This is Occam's razor in action, Matt. But white wine is also catching green bottles. Sometimes, but not always. I sort of convinced, but I just sort. You want an expert. You want someone who actually knows what they're talking about, rather, really, because it's been going on for a long, long time. Should have got the lads in Jerry's off license. I just mentioned they'd know. Okay. Why is wine. Why does red wine come in green bottles and white wine doesn't have to, it would seem. Never see a red wine in a white bottle. Do you ever see a red wine in a completely see through bottle? So rose sometimes comes in a. In a completely clear bottle? I don't know. Let's find out. Red wine, green bottles. Why boo boo? Mistake. How come? Alan Colchester. Question or answer? It's an answer. James. Yeah. Regarding the small fish in the canal. Yeah? It's altered. I don't know what the process is called, but it's to do with the fact that when you get the heat on the water, the water gets drawn up into the air, into the clouds. The clouds move along, and then it rains later on somewhere else and it drops the. Whatever's in with the water, it drops that wherever it rains. Well, why don't we get hit on the head by fish more often than during rainstorms? Well, I've no idea why you don't, but if you. I'm. And the only reason. I presume this is. The reason it is, is that my son used to watch loads of animal planet programs. And I remember sitting with him one time and we discussed it afterwards, the. That business of the frogs raining where they. There was a phenomenon in particular country, I think, South America. Yeah. Do you know what that was? And that was because some meteorological event, I mean, normal evaporation isn't going to see any frogs flying up into the sky, is it? But freak weather conditions could. And so you. Well, it could be stickleback eggs, couldn't it? Exactly. Yeah. Just tiny particles within the water will get drawn up because we get sand particles in rain coming from the Sahara desert that makes all our cars filthy. So the same principle must apply. And you may occasionally also have a bird picking a fish and dropping it by accident, but I think you're more likely. I mean, fish eggs are going to be so miniscule and tiny, they could easily get. If sand can get pulled up, then fish eggs can. I think you've only gone and done it, Alan. Let's find out. Stay there. Oh, yeah. It's closer. Nice one, Alan. I like that a lot. Because there's the famous story, which has got nothing to do with what Alan disguised, but it's actually true because I thought it was an urban myth. So I checked about a frogman being found dead in a forest because they'd been a forest fire and they'd scooped loads of water out of a lake. From helicopter. From a helicopter and then flown to the fire and dumped all the water on the fire. But very tragically, and I think it may have even happened more than once in history, they caught a frogman by accident, like a diver, and ended up dropping him from a great height on a burning forest, which was never going to end well. Abby's Inisha. Abby, question or answer? Answer. How old are you, Abby? Twelve. Have you done this before? No. You're gonna get me into trouble, Abby, because I told my nine year old that she wasn't allowed to come on mystery out today. And she's gonna hear a twelve year old on it. And when I go home, she's gonna say, daddy, how come Abby was allowed on mystery hour? And you said that I wasn't. What am I going to say to her? Nor do I now? Anyway, what's your answer? It's all to do with the beard and the bald question. Oh, yeah. Mohammed. Why has Mohammed got a big beard and a bald head? His hairstyles on the bottom of his face are overactive in cell division and cell growth, so they will grow exceedingly quickly. And the ones on his head are either if he's completely bald, they're either dead or they're very inactive. So they could they divide. I think he wants to know why they're spread out like that. Why can't he have some of the overactive ones on his head and some of the dead ones on his chin? It's probably all to do with what he eats. So, like, if you eat certain food. Really, what can I eat to make my hair grow back? Oh, like eggs are meant to be good qualifications. Abby, I'm at school. And where did you pick up this piece of information we were learning about hair cells? See, this is part of the reason why I told my daughter not to go. Because you can't. I can't really. Now say to a twelve year old, I don't think you've got this. I don't think you've got it right. Don't think you've gone far enough because that just made me sound like cruel being mean to a twice. So I'm gonna give you a round of applause for the cell division point, but I don't think the eggs thing is true. I eat a heck of a lot of eggs and I'm going balder by the year. Where's the round of applause? Well played, Abby. Thank you. 28 after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Wayne's in Basildon. Question or answer? Wayne. It's a question. Go on. Well, I was just wondering, all this talk of, like, Greece's national debt and everything and our national debt, I was just wondering what would happen if we just stopped paying it, just defaulted and said, no, we're not paying it anymore. Would they have some sort of international bailiffs to come in and start taking, like, Buckingham? I don't know. I mean, is that mystery our mate, do you think? Because that's the sort of thing I've done an hour on in the past. Yeah, but I just want to know, because at the end of the day. But there's so many different. There's no definitive answer to this question. That's why I'm not sure it's suitable for mystery hour. And you, as a mystery hour veteran, how many rounds of applause have you got on your Twitter profile? Now I've lost count. Now I'll get you. Talk about cocky. I'm a grandmaster. You've changed. I don't think there'll be a definitive answer to this, will there? Well, it's never happened, so. Well, exactly. So there can't be a definitive answer to it. So you could say, well, the country would go into freefall because they wouldn't be able to pay public servants. They need to borrow money to pay the wages of the government. But there's no definitive answer to this question. I don't think I'll leave it on the board. But I don't want you getting all upset if no one can answer it, all right? Because I know what you like. Yeah? Yeah, I'm good with it. All right. Cheers, Wayne. 12:30 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, who invented punctuation. Why is boo boo synonym for mistake? Why does red wine come in green bottles? Done that. And why do we dance? Zero. 345-606-0973 come on. Tracy and me really need to know why we dance. In our case, so impressively. But for the purposes of the question and answer session, just why? Why do we dance? Why did. Why? Why do we dance? If you know the answer to any of those questions, give us a call now. And if you've got one of your own, there's still room for you to get involved. It's 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Oops. I've done a boo boo. It's not true about that scuba diver. I think I'm getting confused with an episode of CSI called Scuba Doobie Doo. It's not true. It is an urban myth that a scuba diver died after being accidentally scooped out of a lake and dropped on a burning forest. My apologies. If you're just tuning in, you're probably wondering what on earth is going on. Hey, you're not the only one. Let's crack on with mystery. Paul's in. Grace. Paul? Question or answer? James. Yeah. Paul, the ice cream man from grace. Hello, Paul. How are you? Right. All right. Listen, with their fish, the geyser was talking a load of old bologna. And the reason why. Don't eat much of your bedside manner. I hope you're a bit more cheerful when you're flogging ice creams, pal. Yeah, when they're playing. Yeah, listen, it comes from the birds. The birds it's easy. Foreign birds that come over here, nick hair eggs, they land on a lake. The birds, the eggs, and then they go and land on another lake. Of course they do fish eggs. There might be a little bit of evaporation, but there's no way that's the main reason for it, is there? Sorry? It's the main reason. You're the main reason. The fish eggs. You're the main reason. The other bits not clearly. Oh, yeah. The moisture one was rubbish. Why? Don't be so rude. All right, all right. Thank you. All right. I'm not taking back the other fellows. Round of applause because he was a nice bloke, but I'm giving you your very own. All right? Before you go, did you call me about sticking a lolly in an ice cream? Yes, I did. What was it called again? Popeye. Popeye. That was it. Pop someone's eye out. Yeah, no, I remember. I just. I was just trying to place it because I still. I still won't buy one for the kids. I just think it's greedy. I did like you. What? You either get a lolly or an ice cream. But now we're at the point at school gates with the ice cream van, every other kid is getting one and I'm turning into the bloke who doesn't let his children do what everyone else is doing. And then people say, why is it called in 99? No one knows that, do they? Well, I'm not allowed to answer another question, am I? See, that. That is what I call a proper mystery. Our disciple Paul. Bless you. It's 1235. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. So we need to know when punctuation was invented, why boo boo means a mistake, and why red wine sometimes comes in green bottles but never clear. Well, it must be something to do with light. And why do we dance? Is no one having a go at why do we dance? If nobody has a go at why do we dance? I can have a go at it myself while dancing. David's in Brentwood. David, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on the red wine. Just listen to what you said then. It is to do with light and it's to stop the color fading or bleaching inside the bottle. Oh, of course. In the same way that a tablecloth will fade or a box of cereal in a shop window will fade in sunlight. Absolutely right. It just bleaches it out. And so if you. If you are keeping it keeping in a cellar, it's probably going to be okay. But generally speaking, it's more likely to stay red, as deep as red can be if it's in a dark bottle that doesn't admit light qualifications, David. None whatsoever, except I make my own wine. And when I first started doing none whatsoever. But what's your qualification to answer a question about wine? None whatsoever, James. But I do actually make wine. No, no, but it's only. It's only a hobby. Yeah, it's a qualification. Oh, thank you very much. So what happened when you started making wine? Well, no, literally, because I only drink red wine. When I first started, a kit I bought came with white bottles. So I then looked it up to find out, should I use white bottles, having never seen red wine in a white bottle? Yeah, that would be. Why. So it might taste the same. It wouldn't actually affect the taste, but it would just come out looking a bit watery. I don't actually know. But obviously, if you're selling a product which you're going under the color and the body and everything else, it's going to be affected by light, then you're not going to want to sell. That's very true, actually. And it's earned you this. How good is the wine you make? It's reasonable. It depends how long I leave it. A bit tempting at times. Well, I'm sure I've got. There might. There might be a. Now, that is the same answer that Danny and Edgware is coming on. They're telling me it's a stewards inquiry. But, Danny, I think we've already done it. Sorry. The sunlight would bleach the wine. It would go clear. I don't think it would bleach the wine. I would say that it's more too cost efficient. Basically, glass is slightly more expensive than. Than darker glass. And also it will reflect. Why doesn't all white wine come in dark glass then? Because wine. Wine should be drunk in the first two to three years of bottling. Yeah, but you just told me it was cheaper to have dark glass. You're correct. So why don't we do. Why don't we put all white wine in dark glass then? You got me that. It's not that, is it? See that, David? I had you back then, pal. Thank you very much. White wine had looked better in clear glass, I guess would be part of the answer. But it may be that it affects the taste as well as the color. That's the point. Danny. Danny, what are your qualifications? Sorry? What are your qualifications? I've been in the wine industry for just under ten years. Yes. I thought I'd better clarify that. So it is perfectly plausible that it will also affect the taste. And as David discovered from his enophilia, it will also affect the colour. Potentially. 034-5606 we're ticking them off now. Zero. 345-606-0973 why do we dance? Who invented punctuation? Why is a boo boo a mistake? If it is Yogi bear, something to do, smarter than the average bat. Boo boo. I'll give you the money myself. Raising. Oh, a couple of fine lines. 30. 345-606-0973 raising. Great Portland street. Question or answer? Right. It's a question. And according to your people there, it's. You should know this one. Go on. Why do we talk to ourselves? Why would I know that particularly? I don't know. You know, you think out loud sometimes. You know, you actually start literally ask yourself questions verbally. I do quite a lot in the car. And I think, am I going mad or. Well, I think the answer is just because we think, isn't it? Yeah, but what? Yeah, thinking. But why do we talk? Why do we actually speak? It. It pops out occasionally. It's just thinking, but squared. I know, but why do we talk? You know, hold a conversation. But that's not a conversation. But, you know, you do speak out loud to yourself. There's no one else around. I don't know if it's a why. Why do we talk to ourselves? Because we think. And sometimes it comes out. I think that's just the only answer, isn't it? I don't know. Well, let me take. Let me check. 1240. Quite good mystery this week. It's gone. All right. See? Yeah. Okay. What time? Okay. We're gonna give this fellow around. Yeah, I know. It's definitely just kind. It's just my thoughts coming out. There's nothing. There's nothing special going on there at all. Okay. Don't you think I'll buy that very easy round of applause. Did I say that out loud or not? Why would. Why would that be a particular interest to me? He said, talk to yourself, not talk about yourself. If it'd been, why do we talk about ourselves? I'd understand why you'd have said, oh, James will know the answer to this one, but not talk to yourself. I talk to hundreds of thousands of people every day. I don't have to talk to myself. Paul's in Guilford. Question or answer, Paul. It's an answer. Bring it on. Sir, about the dancing. I saw a program a long time ago. That discussed things about human body. And apparently the fetus reacts to the heartbeat of the mother. The fetus reacts to the heartbeat of the mother. Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Yeah. They go, there's your answer, basically. And that's why little kids basically dance. It didn't directly say that, but it's blindingly obvious now that it's set. And I said. I talked about rhythm before, music being that being the source of it, and that would tie in with us. So dancing. I mean, why does a fetus react to the heartbeat of the mother? Is a different question. But how could you not react to it? It'd be like filling your whole head. And most people, they dance very well to a regular beat, whereas I dance irregular to any beats. But that's another thing. That's an age. Age and DNA. There's nothing going on there. I think that that's got to be it, hasn't it? Dancing, it's about responding to the beat and it's learned in the womb. And so then when a drum starts, you can't help. Yeah. Hear the drummer get wicked. There it is. There it is. That your hat trick? Yeah, it is, yeah. Congratulations, mate. Nice one. Well done. You don't ever turn into Wayne. Oh, I can't remember how many I've got. Yvonne's in Marylebone. Yvonne? Question or answer? Question, please, James. Oh, splendid. Bring it on, everyone. I was told when in conversation with someone from british gas, that even if you turn off the switch on your, say, tv or kettle, but don't pull the plug out, you're still using electricity. Can this be true? Good grief. You shouldn't have your radio on in the background. You should have pulled that plug out. The radio's in the kitchen. Yeah, well, I'm here and I can hear it. I'm nowhere near Mary le Bowen, but still, we'll let that pass on this occasion. Have you never done the test that everybody does when they start becoming responsible for their own electricity bills and turning off every plug in the house to see if the wheel keeps turning on the meter? Well, the meter is not in the house, actually. It's outside the house, so that's not convenient. No, fair enough. Start turning off the fridge and all that sort of thing. You can turn it back on again quite quickly. It wouldn't do any lasting damage. But no. So the switch is off, but the plug is in, which is off. The plug is in and apparently you're using electricity. Let's find out for you. Why do you need to know? Are you going to? Matter of interest. Really? You're not going to start unplugging everything at night, if it is true? Well, no, not really. I might pull out the television plug. Yes, that was a pretty good idea. Generally. It's 1243. Yvonne wants to know whether or not it is true as a fella. From what? A fella from British Gas told her that if you don't pull out the plug, you never completely clear of electricity coming in. I don't know. Let's find out. Gary's in Broxborn. Gary, question or answer? Question. Good afternoon. Hello, Gary. Yeah. Annie and I, we've been wondering for weeks, and I've never had to get on, but 50 peak coins, I know that a certain number were minted throughout the Olympic Games. I believe it was 29 different obverses, or whatever the correct term is. Back. Back to the coins. Yes. But in total, I've just been trying to find out exactly how many different sorts have there been, because there are loads of commemorative ones and I know some are frightfully expensive. There's a Kew gardens one which apparently attracts several thousand pounds, but really, how many? Yeah, so I understand. So you could end up with one in your pocket at any time and it's worth a lot more than 50 p. Absolutely. And I suspect the other extraordinary valuable ones, the ones that are uncirculated and that kind of jazz. But. So how many. How many different types of 50 pence coin have been issued? Since. When did it come in? About 73 or something like that, something of that order? I don't know. Decimalization was from 71, but I don't know if the 50 p was in the front line of the day. Might. But anyway, it doesn't matter. There used to be one with hands on the back. Do you remember that one? Yeah, absolutely. I've got. I've got several. It's just, you know, compartmental, you know, not. Are you a coin collector? Not specifically, but things like that. I like little collections of things and I just wondered. I know I'd never obtain an all, because. Can I tell you something that I've never told anyone before, Gary, please. My dad used to collect those 50 p's with the hands on the back, not as a collector's thing, just as a way of saving up cash. So if you ever found one, he'd put it in a different pocket and keep them in a box at home. And I used to nick them and go down the arcade. As it happens, this is true. I have saved every two pound coin I've ever, ever had. How many have you got now? How many have you got now? The last ten was over 5000 pounds. I mean, his life. Good at the moment. I mean, are you comfortable having five grand sort of laying dormant in the back of the house? I can't break the habit. Love it. I used to do it with 20 p's, actually. 20? When they first started, the 20 p's used to do it. And they'd fit in an old sort of massive vodka bottle, keep it on the window. So I'm put the 20 piper two pound coins. That is the way to do it. That is the way to do it. Right, let's find out for Gary how many different sorts of 50 pence coins. Because the reason we had coin collections when I was a kid is my granddad was a security guard in a bank, so he'd give me and my sister the still got them somewhere. Like the special issues, the special collections in little booklets 1246. Mystery I continues. What still needs answers? How many 50 p coins have been issued? Different types. Not the total number of coins, but the different designs. When was punctuation invented? I thought we'd have nailed that one by now. I really did. And I love the dance question. Heartbeats and mums and wombs. And why is boo boo a synonym for mistake? We've got room for a couple more, but I really get answers to those as well. So can we clear a couple of these phone lines and make sure people with answers can get through? Jake's in Peckham. Jake, question or answer? It's a question. Yes, it is. How do crane operators go to the toilet when they're at the top of their crane? They do it in a bottle, a bowl. But what if they need a number? Then they don't go, do they? Yeah, but surely they can't if they're desperate. Yeah, like something's gotta happen, isn't it? No. Well, they'd have to come down then. Yeah. Or they may do it in a different type of receptacle. It's not really a mystery, Jake, is it? It is. All right. Sorry. But, yeah, so, yeah, I like it. Yeah. What? The thought of a crane operator doing a wee in a bottle. Well, no. How do they do it, like? Same way you would aim and release. What? I've never seen them carry a bucket up. No, that's because they generally don't go in the crane. It's not quite as funny as you think. It is this, mate. It is. No, I promise. I promise you. Isn't good mystery. It's not, Jake. It is it's not. I'm sure someone will ring up an answer. I'm absolutely, categorically clear that they won't, because we've already answered it. Well, so you think someone's gonna ring in and go, oh, yeah, we do it in a bucket. Yeah. Yeah. All right, well, let's see. Should we have a bet on it? Yeah, can do. All right, well, how much? I'll ring back up. No, this will put 20 notes on it, shall we? Anyone rings in, in the next seven minutes to say that they take a bucket up their crane, I'll give you 20 pounds. And if nobody does, you give me 20 pounds. Okay. All right, I'm just gonna wait, then. Carlson, Waltham. Slow. Question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. Not a crane operator. You don't operate crane? No, no. But we do have the same sort of problem. Yeah, but you don't have a bucket when you're driving a bus. Just wait until you can go. Yeah. Yeah. You don't use bottles either, do you, when you're driving buses? That would be. I mean, that would end up on the front page of the Daily Mail by tea time, just between. Let's not stop now. Let's not go there, Carl, seriously, what did you ring in? What did you ring in to talk about? I drive past the butchers every day. Yeah. Six. Six times a day. And it's got meat hanging up in the window. Yeah. And it's got 14 days, 28 days labeled on the meat. Yeah. How come it don't get all fly blown and maggoty? Fridge, refrigerator. It's in the way. It's in the shop window. It's not refrigerated. It's an open shop. Yeah. We could still be refrigerated. It's still refrigerated. Like a chill cabinet. Like a giant chill cabinet. Yeah, but there's no back on it. It doesn't matter. It's still colder in the window than it is in the back of the shop. You don't have to take this from me seriously. I just presume it is. But I've got absolutely no evidence or proof of that whatsoever, or indeed knowledge or qualification, so I should just shut up. I will find out for you how come that when you see these lovely 28 day aged haunches of venison hanging in the. In the. In the window of the local butcher, how come they never go off or fly. Fly. What did you say? You had a better phrase than me? Fly blown. Is that the right use of the phrase fly blown? I don't know. Why are you not teaching me bad habits, Carl? No, no, I see them changing them every, every so often. But they don't. I see the van there. Not. But not. Well, then that might be your answer. I mean, they take them down before they get all maggoty and fly blown. Yeah. No, no, no. I drive past this six times a day. Yeah, you mentioned that. Almost. Almost, you know, seven or six days a week. Right, let's find out. No, seriously, there'll be a butcher listening. Oh, 304 5606-0973 is the number you need. 1255 is the time. Professor Martin Smith is here from Manor Park. Professor Smith is the professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. We not heard from the other professor yet today. Oh, that's a shame. This could cause problems. Carry on, Martin. Question or answer? I've got an answer to the lady who wanted to know if it really uses electricity. Oh, Yvonne in Mary le Bone. Yes. When you've turned off the switch, is it all over or do you have to pull the plug out as well? The answer is, it all depends. If you switch it off at the wall socket, then definitely no current is being used. No electricity is being used. Yes, but many devices, like some tvs, computers, printers, video recorders, have a separate box in the cable. Maybe a black box. That's right. And they may have a separate on off switch. And in those cases, if you don't switch it off at the wall, but you switch it off at the device, then it will use electricity. So if it's switched off at the wall, whatever the weather, whatever the device, the electricity is off. Correct. Round of applause for Professor Smith. Thank you, Martin. Good work. Mark's in Barrow, in furnace. Mark, question or answer? It's an answer to the point about punctuation. Just to take things a bit further. Hang on a minute, we haven't gone anywhere. Yeah. How can we go further? Oh, sorry. I believe I heard you had heard. No. All right, well, who invented punctuation? Yeah, for punctuation, as we now know, it goes to the late middle ages, early modern times, and especially when printing was developed. Caxton. But, yeah, people like Caxton in that period, because a lot of people were reading who hadn't been reading before and they needed more help going through text and than someone who was more familiar with it. But there is actually punctuation of a kind, much earlier. If you look at the festos disc, which is a mysterious text found in Crete, it goes back to about 1700 BC. Wow. That. We don't. We can't actually read it reliably. There's lots of different people who claim they can read. There's a series of symbols and they're divided by lines which seem to indicate that the text is being divided. Maybe they're like commas or something of that kind. And there's something more clearer than that, because it's written in language that we know. There's some stelees from the Middle east, from areas around what's now Syria, Jordan, and some of them have markers which separate off words or paragraphs. But it's true that all this develops in its modern form, much more recently formalized with the proliferation of printing presses. But actually, in its essence, like with all linguistic origins, you can't know for certain, but you can keep counting back as far as you can. If they go in the British Museum and look at them as ather stone, they will see that the greek text there, which is written in greek letters, and anyone who can read Greek can read it. But there are no divisions between the words there? No, you have to know where the words begin and end. There's very little punctuation. There's some punctuation in ancient times relating to things like rhetorical structures, where there's part of an argument, the change to a new part of an argument will be a mark to show that's the case. But it is a long time later than that. But anything like modern punctuation developed? What. What you need, you need different punctuation for different kinds of language, different kinds of scripts, but it's all relatively late in the day. Love it, Rand. Qualifications, mark? I'm a linguistics researcher and lecturer. Are you? Where? There you go. Hang on. Where? Well, at the moment, I'm officially retired. I do have a loose affiliation with Sheffield University. My last proper job was at Monash University in Melbourne, and I'm the linguistics consultant to british skeptics. Mate. I do a lot of work on weird claims about language. You have made my day, actually. You really have that, because when I say qualifications, the answer can be, oh, I saw it on Dave last night, or it can be, I'm one of the most. You're too modest to say so, but I am one of the most knowledgeable experts in this field, in the entire country. I wouldn't say that, but I know enough to say something about it and I'm glad to help, and I'm glad to have you. Last word to Gary. Dear James, I am a tower crane operator and I absolutely do not poo in a bucket. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The next voice you'll hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty.