Why is it called pins and needles? - 22 Jan 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time, and mystery hour is upon us. Once again, your weekly opportunity achieve the sort of satisfaction utterly unavailable on any other form of media. It is all about the knowledge. In fact, I issue a cast iron, gold plated. Can it be cast iron and gold plated? Of course it can. You can gold plate, cast iron. Anyway, it's a guarantee that by 01:00 today you will know more than you do now. May not be knowledge you're particularly grateful for, or indeed find any use whatsoever for subsequently, but it will in total be more than you've currently got. It's the radio equivalent, I suppose, of those newspaper columns where you write in with a question and someone else writes in with the answer. Except much, much more fun. Here's the deal. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number to call if you have a question that needs an answer. A who, a why, a where, a when, a whither, a what, a wherefore, possibly, depending on your perspective, even a whence, it can be as serious or as silly as you like. There are no real rules except repetition and dullness are our enemies. If you've got a question that we've dealt with before, or which Michael and Thalia find dull, and I'm afraid their decision is final, you'll be politely invited to jog on. Unless it's Michael who's taken the call, in which case there'll be nothing polite about it at all. Zero 345-606-0973 hit it now. You will get through. Doesn't stay like that for very long. I only say the number on this programme and I've got phone lines free. If I don't say the number, you'll only hear me talking to the same three people every single day. But mystery Hour is a bit different from the rest of the week because things get so busy so quickly. I can tell you, if you're a regular, it's a little slower to start this week because I completely forgot to remind everybody that mystery hour is on the way. So if you hit the numbers, you will get through. If you hit them now, if you can't get through, if you get overtaken by events and you find yourself not getting through, I'm told by people who spend a lot of time studying such matters that the secret is judicious use of redial. So we free up fine lines as quickly as we humanly can, inviting people to move along, please. Nothing to see here, because their question is either dull or something we've dealt with relatively recently. As a rule of thumb, if it's about motoring, if it's. Why do you have to do that when you come into a ramp? If it's about motoring, it will almost always be too dull to be included. And if you want to give yourself a little head start on repetition, if you go to the website LBC dot co dot UK comma, there is a very diverting and fascinating and occasionally hilarious mystery hour. It's like an archive, isn't it? A mystery hour archive of previously dealt with questions. It's not, I don't think, definitive or exhaustive, but still pretty good. Martin's already been in touch, so don't forget your own question this week, mate. Martin, you are a legend. In fact, I love everybody who listens to this program, obviously in a manly way, but sometimes you do really come through for me, Martin, I would have forgotten, thanks to you. Not only will I remember to ask the question, I can actually remember what the question is. In all the years we've been doing this chair, I've never had my own question on the board. And speaking of you coming through for me here is. You remember that mystery? Do you remember the mystery in the last hour? The mystery of the 20 litres, the 20 litre mystery of Cola, the lovely lady in bridge end finding all these bottles of full bottles of cola and not knowing why we've solved it. We've actually solved it. Paul has solved it on Twitter. And I would put money on his explanation being correct, because once you have eliminated the impossible, whatever you are left with, however improbable, must be the truth. Watson. I'm not going to tell you yet, though. I'm going to build a little bit of suspense. Why on earth would there be when what was that lovely lady's name in Bridgehead? Can you remember? Just eluded me for the moment. But why on earth would she be regularly finding full two liter bottles of pop as she went around on her community litter picking course? Computer, litter picking track. I know why now, thanks to Twitter and Paul. So will you if you stay tuned. Let's start in Felton. Ricardo is there. Ricardo, how are you doing? I'm very well, thank you, James, you're coming on Sunday. Thank you, mate. You're coming on Sunday. Do you know what I did? I didn't know it was happening. I thought you'd mention it earlier. So I've missed it. Well, just. Just in case people listening. I mean, would you like to give them an idea of what no. Pressure to be funny is? Like on Sunday night at the Phoenix in Oxford school, James. Host a panel show with very funny comedians. We all have a good time and. Yeah, and you get to buy. You get. You get to buy me a drink as well. If you're really lucky, James, if you can find the time. What's not to like? Ricardo, question or answer? I have a question. Good man. Why is it that the majority of food tastes better hot than cold? That's quite controversial. How so? Well, I prefer pizza and curry the next day. What, from the fridge? Yeah. What about, like a roast dinner? Well, yeah, you know, you. Roast dinners. I think we learned the answer to this question last week with a different question. Which was? Why do cooking smells invade the house in a way that other smells don't? That was convection. Right? Yeah. And I reckon it's the same with your taste buds. I reckon the heat means you've got more flavor washing around your sort of mouth and taste buds and palate than you would have if it's cold. Brownian motion, isn't it? Oh, myself good. Oh, damn. That's it, isn't it? You can have one. You have one on me. I don't mind. Molecular agitation, mate. Do you remember how the producer wrote brownie in motion last week? Yeah, brownie in motion. Yeah, it would be, I suppose, in motion if you were doing it. Ten minutes. Oh, I got one. He's over the line. Thank you very much, Ricardo. Take care. I'll see you soon. Simon's at Oxford Street. Simon. Question or answer? Yeah, it's a question, please. Sparked off by the lady who phoned in a couple of weeks ago about birds landing on telegraph whilst they get an execute. No, don't cause anything to ground. They're not asked. Yeah, that's right. Okay, well, it's a question. I've been thinking about railway tracks. You've got the live wire. Do mammals crossing the tracks that touch the live wire? You know, do they? Car kit. That was the word. So I'm never quite clear on this with live wires. If we tread on them, do we die? Yes. Are you sure? Because I'm mammals. So there's your answer. Yeah, but I mean. Okay, white leaks are work. There's a badger set up on the embankment. Yeah, those badges, you know, presumably they cross the tracks now, they've got short little legs. If they touch the live wire and they're grounding a target. And because we know to avoid it. We don't generally, but animals won't know. Yeah, I like that. The ultimate. They're not going to. We lost the line, but just in time. I was going to ask you a few questions about the badgers, actually, but I'll have to wait for another day. It's eleven minutes after twelve, so two callers down, two phone lines free. If you've been trying to get through and failing, have another crack now. Zero. 345-606-0973 Soup improves, in fact, anything. Spite. I find a chilli, just to throw back to the last hour. Improves with age. Chilli con carne soup will get better with age. Anything. I tell you what else, a foe. If you ever make a sort of fiery vietnamese stock that gets better the second 3rd day. But hot food generally tastes better than cold food because you get more flavor washing around your mouth. We've dealt with Ricardo's question. Can you deal with that last one about live rails? Kareem is in Hounslow. Question or answer? Kareem question. James. Yes. I hope you'll be able to answer this. I don't know anyone who can yet, and I really want to know. So why is a building called a building when it's already been built? What? I mean, instead of being called a build? Yeah. Well, I don't know what else it can be called, though. It is a building. Well, but. No, but I think you've got a category error here, is that you're presuming that the same, what they call homonyms. So building can mean two different things. It can be both a verb and a noun. So it just is the answer. It just. Oh, I know I sound like a dad talking to a four year old, but it's the trap you've fallen into is thinking that a word can only mean one thing. Right? Okay, I get what you. So you could have phoned me up and said, why do we call a prison cell a cell, when a cell is what our bodies are made of? Do you see what I mean? Yeah. So it's the verb I am building, and then it's the noun. Here is a building. There are quite a lot of things, he says, desperately trying to think of some that are both verbs and nouns. He says slowly while mouthing at Jones the engineer. Quick, think of some. There must be some off the top of our heads that are verbs and nouns. Housing. Housing. You call a housing an electrical housing. Casing. Casing. The joint casing. Around a fuse. Housing can be houses. Houses are called housing, but also the act of putting someone in a house is called housing them. Very true. I'm taking it. Yeah, now you can take it. Thanks, ma'am. If you're new to this, the idea is not that I answer all the questions, but I have a tiggerish, a tigerish side, shall we say, that sometimes finds it hard to resist. So if you can answer the other ones we've had, especially the one about the live rail, zero 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. You listen to James O'Brien on LBC. Two phone lines free. One of them could be yours, but only if you're quick. This is LBC Mystery Hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 18 minutes after twelve. That's got to be one of the nicest compliments I've ever seen. Lizzie's just tweeted out Mister James Ob and she won't know that I've seen her tweet until next week. She says. I can't believe I've just turned off mystery hour. James, I've got a lot of driving to do next week and the podcasts just make the journeys feel much shorter. So she's decided to save this mystery hour until she really needs help getting through the day next week. That's lovely. What are we looking at? Live wires and lions. What do mammals do animals do on live rail wires? We know to avoid them. Do they routinely kill badgers, foxes and the like? And lions is a question I've been meaning to ask on mystery for months. Why? And it takes some effort. I usually manage to get through this, but generally speaking, I never want to get out of bed at 06:30 in the morning on weekdays when I have to go to work. But when I wake up at 06:30 on a weekend, that sense of almost irresistible fatigue and tiredness just isn't there. I generally manage to rediscover it through epic effort. But why is that? It must be psychological. Is it the same psychological sort of reflex that means you don't actually need to go to the lavatory until you get to your front door and get your keys out and then suddenly you're bursting? Or maybe that's just me, but we'll focus on the lion, the psychology of the lion and the physics of the live wire. There's a professor on the horizon. But first, Geoff is in seven Oaks. Geoff, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. What I'd like to know, after many years of driving all over the place. You see these lorries driving around. Have you got horses written on them? Yes. Now, obviously these people are equestrian types and they write horses on them. Is this a legal requirement? Because they all seem to do it. So if you take it down the full path, would we be. If it is a legal requirement with cars, we'd have to have people written on top of our cars. Well, no, we wouldn't think there's a legal requirement for these people to slap horses on their. On their vehicles. Because you don't. You don't see them on livestock lorries, do you? And you see, they don't have sheep written on it or cows or pigs, chickens. Yeah. And you know, it's a horse box. I like that. Is there illegal? Yeah, we'll just get someone who's got a horse box to tell us, can't we? Or on a campervan. You sort of have tourists written on the side. I like that. Why have you been puzzling about. I thought that was a rubbish question when you started asking it, but by the end I liked it. Most people think what I say is rubbish. No, they don't, Jeff. Only. Only the fools. It's 20 worse. That's why I keep telling myself it's 21 minutes after twelve. Professor Hal is here. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. And glancing at my list. Professor Hal, I don't. Well, there's only two that you. It's got to be the live. No. What are you doing here? I'm very sorry to say I'm correcting you, James. How did you get through? Sweet talk. Did you speak to. Did you speak to a man or a woman? It was a lady, and I hadn't spoken to her before, so perhaps she didn't know. Ah, okay. She's very polite. What's that sound? That's the sound of a P 45 just coming over the horizon right there. And you told her, did you, that you were coming on to correct me in person, public, on live radio? Yes. And she still let you through? Yes. Okay, you carry on, mate. Okay. It's the hot food tasting. Nicer. Yes. Actually, there was a couple of inaccuracies. The concept of flavor is a combination of smell and taste in a ratio of about 70 30. It's more smell than it is taste. Taste is actually quite primitive. You can allegedly taste five things, which is salt, sweet, bitter, sour and umami, which is savory. Umami. Marmite. Yes. And fish and meat. Oyster sauce, malar browning oyster sauce. That kind of thing. But taste. Taste is underpinned by smell. And hot food, as you. As you wisely said, hot food, very wisely. Hot food has got more volatile causes, more volatiles to evaporate. They diffuse faster. And diffusion is a form of osmosis. Get in. Yes, hang on, I think you may have said that a little bit too quietly. Diffusion is a form of what? Well, actually, more cases, osmosis is a form of diffusion, but osmosis is right in there. Oh, no, it's there. Oh, I thought it was broken. Hold your horses. Do you know the reason why we do that? Whenever anyone says that word is lost in the mists of time. But it's been resurrected recently and I'm very glad it has. Well done, Professor Hal. So is it a form of brownian motion as well? Well, brownian motion's in their summer. Brownian motion is just a random walk of molecules. Diffusion is just basically a drift of molecules. So what did I get wrong, then? Well, you said it was flavour washing around your mouth, but it's actually your nose that's more important than your mouth in this particular instance. Oh, fine. Which explains why when you've got a cold, you say, I can't. I didn't just mean mouth, did I? I meant palate. I actually said palate. The palate would be nearer the nose than the mouth. I think you said mouth. I said mouth and palate. Okay, well, anyway, it explains why you. When you say. When you've got a cold, you say, I can't taste anything. What you actually mean is I can't smell anything. And at boarding school, on boiled egg days when they really weren't edible to human beings, but you got into trouble if you didn't eat them, if you couldn't get James Dodfield to eat yours, because he'd get through about six, but if you didn't get there early and get dudders to have your egg, you had to eat it while holding your nose. And it does actually work. There we are, then. Thanks for having me on. No, it's always a pleasure. Let's go give. Give hal a round of applause. Actually, I didn't mind that. That was the kind of correction I quite enjoy. Might need to rephrase that. Michael's in Enfield. Michael, question or answer? Answer. On the live wires. It must be. I'm very excited. I've been waiting years to get one of these. I'm really excited. Well, listen, I don't want to rain on your parade, but you're not over the line yet. I know I am. Oh, okay, then. Okay, big man, the answer is, is that there is no earth. So when you. When? Years ago, I used to work for London transport when I started training as an engineer. And I used to watch guys sitting on the live rails eating their sandwiches. Wow. And even though I knew you have to touch both the rails to get a shock, there's no way you're gonna get me sitting on a live rail. Me too. But the line, say if you had your supply to your farmhouse and you've only got, and it's called a TT system, you've only got two wires. The earth is actually finalized in the ground virus stake, so you need to touch if touching it down to ground does nothing, because there is no ground. It's only when you touch each cable together that you will fry. And an animal is just going to fry just as much as we are. But they don't. I mean, touching both at the same time is just not going to happen. No. Well, on the underground, stretched across, you would. But say maybe a horse could. Or a very long badger. Oh, a very, very long badger. Yeah. So it is. It is the case that you need to touch both terminals, both cables, to get the shot. There's no earth, but there's no earth. So by sitting on it and touching the ground, there is no connection to ground electricity. Electricity is formed in a delta, a triangle that spins. This is our household supplies, and when it's generated, it goes over to a star system, and the center of the star is the earth. So that's when we get our earthing system from there. So at the beginning, the red earth, the red, yellow and blue as it spins, there is no earth connection. So you can touch that and you're not going to die. You have to touch both. Right. Do not try this at home. I should stress, but this is, you know, I mean, that actually, it suddenly occurred to me, everyone listening might be going, all right, okay, well, I'll do that then. Most people won't be thinking, they've got earth at home. They've got an earth, so you can't touch it. No, I didn't mean at home. I was just being a bit blue petery. I didn't mean actually at home. I mean, don't try it at your local station or anything like that. So a cow perhaps would. Occasionally a stray cow might, but then we wouldn't have that many live tracks outside big cities anyway, would you? Well, you've got a line going out to aylesbury, haven't you? On the underground. That goes ahead of long way out. Yeah. Qualifications, Michael? I'm an electrical and heating engineer. And it's finally come good for you, mate. Oh, thank you so much. I'm so excited. There you go. And I like spreading happiness and excitement in that way. Amanda is in Wimbledon. Amanda, question or answer? Question, please. Yes. Okay. It's from my daughter. She's eight years old, and last night she had pins and needles. And she turned around and said, mommy, why is it called pins and needles? And I thought, well, tomorrow's Thursday. I will phone James. You couldn't. You couldn't tell her yourself? No, because I didn't know. Are you serious? Yeah. This is verging into childbirth territory, Amanda. I might have to phone Esther ransom. You're exposing your child to such epic ignorance that, frankly, I'm concerned quite often this happens. Well, let's have a little think, shall we? Together. Okay. Come on, then. What is it called again? Pins and needles. And what is it physically? Describe it. Well, when you feel like you're being stabbed by pins and needles, that. By what? Pins and needles. So I'm just thinking, if I've got this physical condition that hasn't got a name and it feels just like someone stabbing me with pins and needles, what could I call it? Um, so they've taken chicken pox, unfortunately. Um. I don't know. Can you think of a good name for something this is gonna happen. Can you think of a good name for something that feels just like being pricked with pins and needles? Amanda. Okay. Yeah. Can you. Great. The good thing is, is I call my husband, my father, my sister. I'm gonna be on LBC. Please. Listen, do you want to say hello or do you want to pretend it's not you? Just. Twice this has happened to me now, so. It's all right. I used to. This is why I love Mister Aaron. It's why I love you for ringing in with that and blame it all on your daughter. It's all your daughter's fault, frankly. She should have been able to work it out for herself. What are you sending her to school for? I know. Honestly. Have half a round of applause. Seriously, I don't know. Why do they call it pings in me? Ah. It's coming up to 12:30. What still needs answers? The. The horses question. Is there a legal requirement? Why do they write horses on the side of horse boxes? And why, when you don't have to get up, do you really want to stay in bed? But when you. Now. When you do have to get up, you really want to stay in bed, but when you don't have to get up, you just don't. And I refuse to believe that's just me. I've checked with people. 300 456-066-0973 is the number that you need. It's coming up to 12:30 you've got a question, then you can just jump in quickly. There's a phone line free if you can answer the questions that are there. It's just lions and horses we've got next. Unless, of course, you're a pedant and a hair splitter and you want to take issue with some of the questions I've rather expertly provided already. You can tweet amesob and you can text 84850. I love how excited everybody is by the return of the hallelujah chorus. We should have played the theme tunes for either. For ages, either, actually. But anyway, one step at a time. More to come after this mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 26 minutes to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery are underway. Got a question? We've probably got time. Well, we definitely got time for it. Just use red dial judiciously. If you can't get through straight away. Lee's into Sid cup. Lee, question or answer? Come on, then. Horses. There's no legal requirement to have horses on board when they act on the side of a horse lorry or trailer. It's purely there just for currency information. More than, I think most horse box drivers or trailer drivers, they've got horses on board. They will slow down a lot sooner to a roundabout or a set of lights than a car or a normal driver would because of the. Because of the danger of the horses sort of rattling around too much in the background. So it's just. It's just politeness, really. Why don't they put other animals on? Because usually other animals are being transported in slightly less comfortable surroundings, I suppose. So if they're in crates or if they're in sort of pens and stuff like that, they don't need to worry so much about what the traffic behind might do. There is that. And there's also. If you break a horse's leg, obviously, it's normally 910 put down. Yes. You get a cattle truck. Most cattle trucks are going to an abattoir. Yes. So if they break a leg. That's what I was trying to say in a slightly less brutal fashion, Lee. I was trying to explain that, you know, the MO. Yeah. You're right. If a cow gets hurt on its way to the abattoir, who cares is what you're really saying. If a horse gets hurt, it's probably on its way to a show or home to its stable. What are your qualifications? I'm a transport manager. Transport manager? Do you deal with horses much? No, we do horses, but as part of a transport manager, the exams that we do to get our qualifications, you know what you're legally obliged? What? You're legally obligated to actually put on transportation. Jason's been in touch with a different answer. I'll let you decide who gets the round of applause. Lee. Okay. All right. Jason says, why do they write horses on horse boxes? James? Simple. Because elephant would be entirely inaccurate. I've given it to you. No, this is for Lee. Well played, Jason. Tony's in East Finchley. Question or answer, Tony. Question. Go on. Why can't you use something like laughing gas on the battlefield? Who says you can't? Well, I know. I mean, why not go to somewhere like Aleppo or Mosel and just carpet bomb the place with laughing gas? Then you go in with gas masks and pick up the fighters, either asleep or laughing. Yes, you can do that. Well, why don't they? Well, because they're not idiots. Well, why would that be idiotic? Using dental gas to pop to make everybody on a battlefield pass out, and then you go in with the gas mask on and take them out again, something. Or not. Or at least make them. No, actually, I'm being unfair, Tony. The answer is that the greatest military minds of the last 200 years just haven't thought of it yet. Well, I'm assuming somebody has. There must be a reason why they don't. But I've just never heard anybody say what it is. Or you could put something like MDMA in the water and make everyone. I think, in a nutshell, the answer is that when they recover, they're still enemy soldiers. Will you be captured by them? Well, so you're just gassing everybody and then putting them all in prison? Well, it's better than going in and dropping bombs on them or, you know, troops to shoot them. Okay, I'll leave it on the board. Nigel's in maidenhead. Nigel, question or answer? Answer, James. Come on, then. It's actually answer you already had, which I am questioning. Who provided the answer? The guy who was the heating engineer. This was the railway art. Hang on. He was an electrical engineer as well. Don't start splitting it. Right. Come on, then. What did he get wrong? Okay, right. He was referring to star delta networks which are three phase and ac. Yes. The underground is DC. Okay. Right. And one thing, the live outside rail is at a plus potential. And the. Let me just, just before you bumboozle us and blinders with science, the original question was about mammals crossing the line. Yes, I agree. Now the issue was that he actually said if you sat on the line and put your feet on the ground you'd have no problem because it's not Earth. Yeah, that's wrong. It's a DC system. The outside line is a positive potential. It's above Earth. The middle line, which is the return line, is a non running rail. The line in the middle of the two tracks is the return rail which is a negative potential. If you sat on the line and put your feet to the ground you're going to earth electricity and you're going to kill yourself. If you were to stand on the line with both your feet and not touch the ground, so you jump up on the line you'd be fine. And you jumped off and jumped to the ground you'd be fine. But if you've got 1ft on the ground and 1ft on the line you're going to fry. So that's why a bird or an animal, if it jumps on the line, must it be lucky and jumps off? If not it's going to fry itself. And this is a reflection on me, not you. I lasted about 8 seconds. Okay, I'm sorry. No, I just have no idea whether you're right or wrong. So how come his mates could eat their sandwiches while sitting on the, on the. Because there's mostly situated insulated boats. I've got a few friends working underground and watched what they've done and know what they do and they must have got big rubber boats and they're sitting on their backsides or sitting insulated off the ground. So why don't more badgers die on train tracks? I don't know why badgers in particular, foxes or anything. It's a fair point but I said I'm looking for the technical point of view. Maybe they just jump over the track. Qualifications former electronics engineer and also make you laugh. I'm a former enthusiast so you can have a laugh as well. Why do all your people always say that? Because you just, you've dealt with trainspotter jokes all your life. Yes, that's true. Yeah. Well, sodom, mate, I'm not gonna laugh at you. No, seriously I'm not. I think that's a wonderful hobby. I completely get it. Oh good. Like any other hobby, it has its sort of extremists, if you will. It's lunatic fringe. But couldn't me. There's few better sites than a. Oh, hang on. This is just for you, Nigel. Thank you very much. James. Have you been to see the railway children at King's Cross yet? No, I haven't. Well, there's a little tip for you. If you. If you've got any young people in your life, take them along to that. It's got a full size steam engine in it. Right. I might actually do that. Thank you, James. Take care. Hang on. I've got to give you the round of applause first, I think. I don't know whether you earned it or not, mate. As I said, you lost me after 8 seconds. But you sound like. You sound like a nice fella. So take that to the bank. It's not for Lawrence is in Esha. Lawrence. Question noon. James. Hello, Lawrence. Now, I have a quandary, because you had a question about nitrous oxide. And as you may remember, I've been a dentist for 42 years. I do remember that you're no longer a dentist. I was queuing up to ask you a question. Yes. What do you want? The answer or the question? Well, I wasn't taking the question seriously about why we don't use laughing gas to end all wars. But if you want to, you take that question seriously, Lawrence, you're welcome to. But then I'll let you have your question as well. My question? I'm trying to improve my golf. So I go along to the pro and he says, france, you really should develop a muscle memory. And I say, but there's no memory in my muscle. It's in the brain. Yes. So what is he talking about? A memory of a muscle? He insists. He insists I've got a muscle memory. You have? Where? In your brain. Yeah, but it's my muscle memory. But it's a memory of your muscle, Lars, you see, you've got a memory of your mum, haven't you? All right. And that's in your brain? Yes. See, so what the muscle memory is, is if you hit the ball perfectly, then there'll be something in your brain that remind of how everything felt when you hit that ball. Put. You see, I think I should have answered the question, but what? Jet. Lawrence, mate, this is. This is official. This is a list stuff. The muscle memory, particularly with tennis or golf, is the way you address the ball having a recognition factor in your consciousness. So you will just line yourself up in exactly the same way. As when you hit the ball perfectly. So you have muscle memory in all sorts of areas of life. It's the coordination. As I try and swing at that thing. Yes. Muscle memory. And then when you really play a blinder, when you send the ball skying over the horizon, straight towards the pin from the tee, in particular, that muscle memory is because you've got everything just right. But I can't do it again because I forgot how I did it. That's why he keeps telling you that you need to develop a muscle memory, Laurence. Okay, dear, I'll take that one. Well played. Do you want to do the nitrous oxide thing as well? Just because I know he's gone. Dan's in Battersea. Dan, question or answer? Question, please, James. My question. Give me a chance. Give me a chance on this one, because it may seem a bit dumb, but shower gel or hair or shampoo. Yeah. I recently was away on holiday and in the shower they have body wash, body stroke, hair wash. Okay. Yeah. Does the same thing. One bottle does the same thing. Brilliant. Every day in the UK, I have to use. I use two different ones. And if I don't, if I run out of water, I don't like using shampoo on my body or vice versa. Is there any difference? And if there isn't, why do we bother with all these things? Why don't they just make. Because I've got hair on my body and I've got skin on my head. So I presume they do roughly the same thing. I presume they do as well. But you will want a slightly more comprehensive answer than that. Well, yeah. Is it just a marketing ploy? Is it the same stuff to get us to buy more stuff? And I think it certainly is. We want to hear from someone who's got some qualifications. Ideally, yeah. Is there a difference between all these detergents? We could call them loosely between shampoo's body wash. I drank a bottle of shampoo once. That is not something I would advise. No, no, I wouldn't do that with orange juice. No. It's a long story. I have told it before, but I don't think I'll tell it again because I'm a much more mature character now, Dan. I like that. What's the difference? Is it shampoos, body washes? What else do you have on these sort of things? Conditioner is different, obviously, but shampoos and body wash. Soap was the word I was looking for. Yeah, there you go. Big complicated word like soap. They're all just soap, aren't they. With various different fragrances and consistencies. But we need a proper answer from a proper person with proper qualifications. I didn't realize Beverly was standing in for Sheila today, so please do not mention that thing I told you yesterday about her successfully changing my mind on a couple of issues regarding childbirth and labour wards and the like. Okay? I do not want her to know I admitted I was wrong. Keep that under your hat. Thank you. Back to mystery. Ah, Carl's in Croydon. Question or answer, Cole? It's a question. So my question is, why, when you boil water twice and make a cup of tea with it, does it taste completely different? Ah, because. Yeah, it's air, isn't it? It's sort of got a furry taste to it. It does, doesn't it? It gets softer or harder. Oh, I think that's the answer, because as you boil it, some of it evaporates. So every time you're left with the stuff that doesn't allow, the concentration of the stuff that doesn't evaporate will get stronger, so the water will get harder. Shall I leave this for an expert, Cole? Okay. Yes, please. All right, then. I could tell you were too polite to say so. Yeah. Okay. Water, when you bought. The more you boil it, the more the taste changes. Why Kurt's in leather head. Kurt, question or answer? Answer, James. Go on, then. This is the laughing gas one. Really? Yeah, go on, then. Well, the reason for my skepticism is that I didn't. I didn't think we were taking that question seriously, but I'll be fascinated what your answer is. Well, there's an interesting answer to the slightly more boring one. The interesting one is that with chemical weapons, you have to have something that's very dense. So it's heavier than air. Yes. To sink down, you want to affect people, otherwise it floats away. Exactly. The French did actually try something similar in the first world war with hydrogen cyanide, which is also lighter than air. And they actually found that the problem was because it floated away, the actual lethal radius where it would kill an enemy sold was less than if they just put explosive in it. Yes. Well, I guess the reason. The reason I was a little curt with the questioner is because if it was going to work, it would have happened. Yeah. I said. Well, they. I just said cart. Sorry, I wasn't being funny then when I said a little cart. Cart, yes. I wondered if. No, I really wasn't. I was looking at Tony, who's on next, actually, on the screen. So sorry about cut the cut cart thing. Cut. The reason I was cut with. The original question of cut was because I just presumed that if there was any viability whatsoever in his proposal, it would be happening now. It's not like they've decided not to use laughing gas on everybody because of some reason. Yeah. The slightly more boring reason is it wears off very quickly and the effect goes greatly. Yeah. So you were just going around in circles. The question is, well, why didn't they do this? And the answer is, because it wouldn't flipping work. And if it would work, they'd have done it pretty much. Round of applause. Can we have a full sized round of applause for Kurt, please? Not a curt one. Thank you, Kurt. I'm tempted to do a curtsy. It's 1253. Tony's in Heathrow. Tony, question or answer? Hello, Kurt. Get on with it, you fool. And the answer, James, to the. To the shampoo question. Shampoo and shower gel. Yes, indeed. The answer came from Professor Howell, who today. I thought so. And that was a couple of years ago. And in the hall household, they have got shampoo and soap and all the rest of the stuff is all in one big container, as I recall. You're right, actually. He talks us through his ablutions and his bathroom room and everything. He did, he did. I think, apart from. I think there's a slight addition in the conditioner, which makes it a sort of silky, oily effect, whatever it is. But otherwise it's all marketing, branding and advertising. And I tried to point this out to the missus goes and buys all the posh shampoo, and I said, have you actually stopped and read the ingredients on these things? She said, no, mate, I've got a life. Yeah, exactly. But they are the same. The ingredients are the same. So apart from perfume and then some of the really silly stuff on the expensive ones, like it's got, you know, tiny little pearls in it or something like that. It is, yeah, it's all. Yeah, it's all the same stuff. It's like those vinegar adverts you see in the paper sometimes, and they tell you all the things vinegar can do and you think that's a load of old rubbish. But when you actually come down to it, you have a. You know, it's true that the chemical constituency of vinegar could replace an awful lot of stuff that's in the cleaning cupboard under the sink or something like that. Well, you get the round of applause. Even though Professor Hal did the heavy lifting, you get the round of applause. Thank you. That's my fourth. Yeah. No one likes to show off, Katie's in Nottingham. Katie, question or answer? Answer. Come on, then. About the deoxygen or the water in the kettle. When you make a cup of tea, you deoxygenate the water and so it tastes different. So it's got less. Are you sure? Yeah. Because if you. But it's still h two o, it doesn't stop being h two o. The ratio of oxygen to hydrogen must stay the same. Well, if you get ice or get water when you freeze it. Yeah, it's cloudy, but if you boil it and then freeze it, it's clear. Yeah. Because you're taking the air out. We say air instead of oxygen. You make more sense. So you've got h two o. That's got air in it. Yes. Which can be released by the boiling process. Yes, it is, yeah. Qualifications? I read a very good book. Am I allowed to name it? Yeah, of course you are. A nice cup of tea and a biscuit. And a nice cup of tea. Or biscuits. Yeah, a nice cup of tea and a biscuit. Biscuits. Who is it by? I like the sound of that. I can't remember. It's a fabulous book. It's all about biscuits that we eat and the history of them and why we test them. Crunchiness. And really, tell me something I don't know about custard creams, Katie. Oh, I need to go and get my book. You must have absorbed some of this knowledge. I can't thoroughly recommend the book. Oh, well, you're on. Fair enough. And it's earned you a round of applause. Thank you very much. And there will be something to do with hard and soft water, but not necessarily something that mean in terms of the quality of tea, but not necessarily in terms of boiling, changing it. Thank you. Damien is in the west end, London's fashionable question or answer, Damien. It's a question. Yes. Why do people go in the cold? I can see from the board that we've squeezed through a couple of what you might call more eccentric questions as the close comes into view on this. I think the technical term might be fillers. Is that a fair comment? Jones, the engineer, do you think? All right. Why do you think we go, brrr in the cold? I've got no idea. Why do we rub our hands together? No idea. Of course you do. What, to keep us warm? Yes. Well, how does making you warm. How does rubbing your hands together make you warm? I don't know. Friction. So you're turning movement, kinetic energy, into heat energy. Same when you go. Right. Why on earth would you sound skeptical about that? That's not only a good answer, it contained the word kinetic. Mmm. Okay, I'm gonna tell you again and you're gonna sound grateful, all right? Okay. When you rub your hands together like that, friction turns kinetic energy into heat energy. In fact, probably a little bit of potential. So, potential and kinetic turned into heat energy. When you do that with your mouth, exactly the same thing is happening. Friction kinetic energy turning into heat energy, therefore your lips heat up, therefore you feel better. Okay, fair enough. Fair enough. Yeah. Fair enough. I don't know why I bother. All right. Well, there you go, Damien. Thank you. It's coming up to 1258. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Have we dealt with everything we've done? The horses? The only one we haven't done is mine. Honestly, what's the point of having. What's the point of inventing your own game if you don't get your own questions answered? Why is it that when you don't have to get up at 06:30 in the morning, you really, really don't want to stay in bed, but when you do have to get up at 06:30 in the morning, you absolutely want to stay there? Has anyone had a crack at that? Have we gone that? This is the first time I've ever put my own question on mystery hour. Pause in sheen, Paul. Question or answer? Hello? Hello. Is that the wing war chinese takeaway? It isn't, I'm afraid. No. Oh, I think I might have got the wrong number. No, you haven't, James. Definitely not quite sure. Answer. It's a very quick question which has to. Beverly's on in 15 seconds. Go on, then. D notices? Yes. Served on the media. If you run a little newspaper somewhere, how do you know they exist? I think Special Branch come and tell you. But how would they know if you just got a story and you see what you mean? Actually, I don't know. So you mean the things you're not allowed to report that you might have actually found out? I don't know. And I wouldn't be allowed to tell you anyway, even if I did know. That's it from me for another day. This is LBC. I am James O'Brien. We'll be back tomorrow from ten. And the next voice you will hear belongs to Beverly Turner.