Sliced bread, the twins and grunting when you are old? - 2 Jun 16

Three minutes after twelve is the time and almost every single phone line that was occupied within a moment of me launching mystery hour is now empty again because we're getting so much repetition. If you've been trying to get through and failing, try again now. The number you need is zero 345-606-0973 there are two rules, of course, repetition and dullness. We're constantly guarding against them and, well, we're being stricter, I think, this week than we have in recent weeks because the repetition alarm has been going off rather frequently, which means that judicious use of reader will give you your best chance in a while of getting through to the program and getting your question on the board. If you have no idea what I'm talking about and you're new to mystery Hour, allow me to suggest that you're in for a bit of a treat. The way it works is this. You have a question in your mind. It might be weird, it might be wonderful, it might be serious, it might be silly, it might need a professor to answer, it might need a park keeper. The point is you need an answer. Maybe, maybe, maybe you could look it up. Maybe you could use Google or something like that. Maybe you could, maybe you couldn't. The point is you haven't. You get on board, you ask the question, somebody else listening, who is also forbidden from looking it up. You have to answer from memory, and knowledge will provide the answer. Sounds simple. Well, it is simple, but it's incredibly good fun. Every single week, week in, week out. I can't remember the last time I felt in any way let down by mister Hour. I know most people who listen to it feel exactly the same. That much. All you need to know, it's a who, a why, when, why do we do that? Where does that come from? What's that for? Might be strange, might be something the kids have asked you. We're in the middle of half term, aren't we? So it might be some of the kids have asked you. They haven't been able to answer. In fact, I think mystery hour, it's so long ago now, I can't fully remember. I think this started life as a way of prolonging the con that we know everything to our children. That's how it started life. The idea that you know when your children think you know everything, omniscience, parental omniscience, and of course they realise pretty quickly that you don't. This just allows you to perhaps pretend for a little bit longer that you do. Oh, I do know the answer. To that, I'll tell you tomorrow. Then you ring us, get the answer. You're laughing. 034-560-6973 is the number that you need. If it's a question that we've dealt with before, you'll be politely invited to move along. If it's a question that Caroline and Victoria think is dull, they will politely tell you so please don't argue. Their decision is final. And if you hear somebody else asking a question to which you know the answer, the number is the same. You will get through if you're patient and committed. And the prize on the board is a mystery. Our round of applause. Probably the most sought after award on the whole of not just british radio, the world's radio dial. Should I crack on and stop talking? Yeah, I think so, too. Lisa is in Chigwell. Question or answer, Lisa. It's a question. Carry on. My son came home from school very excited during the week. He said, can I do something on you? And I said, well, okay. He's not training to be a tattoo artist, is he? Well, I was a bit worried because he got out a black shard pen. Right. And he drew a little square on the. On the top of my hand, and then he got his iPhone with the flash and he put it up against my hand where the square was, and he gave me an electric shock. Really? Yes. When he took a picture. When he took. Yes. It actually. I think he actually connected it to my hand, the iPhone. So it's touching your hand, he takes a picture and you got an electric shot where the black square was. Yes. And he asked why? And I said, I'll give you the answer on Friday afternoon after school, or indeed Thursday evening. That's right. It was a proper electric shock. It was a real, proper electric shock. And apparently it's been going around the schools in the area. It's the fun thing to do. Well, I never. My kids are too young, they haven't got phones yet. And in fact, I'm still clinging to the notion that they never will. But I appreciate I'll have to grow out of that sometime soon. No. At least when they're 18. Don't go before then. Well, we'll see. Right, let's get you an answer. Why? So other people will recognize that. But we want the science. So, I mean, it was a Sharpie pen. I don't know how relevant that'll be, but that's like a felt tip type thing, isn't it? Yes. And it definitely didn't work when you did it without the pen. So it's through the black square that the shock is felt or that the electricity is conducted. Although I'm already using a word I'm not really qualified to throw into the conversation. Right. I'll get you the scientific explanation. This could be one for Professor Howe, couldn't it, Lisa? It could. We always like to hear him. It's a mystery house, not complete without a contribution from Professor House Ossobolsky. The professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. Eight minutes after twelve is the time Emily is in welling. Question or answer, Emily? It's a question. Carry on. Do your irises change color as you get older? Yes. Just because today. Yes. I'm just thinking. I saw my granddad at the weekend and I was looking at his eyes and I don't think they've changed color since I was a little. And I was just thinking because your hair changes color, your skin tone changes. So, yeah, I was wondering. Well, I mean, the most obvious answer to your question is that I think all babies have blue eyes, don't they? Um. No. My daughter's got very brown eyes. No, she has now, but the minute she was born. No, they were brown. Were they? Have I just made that up? Why did I get that idea? Why are you nodding at me, Mark? I thought. I thought all babies had blue eyes. Well, anyway, the reason I can answer that some people's irises do change color is because mine have. Okay. I've gone from. I've gone from. I mean, you might want to sit down before I describe fully the depth of blue that my eyes used to enjoy. Now they're a bit more flinty, they're a bit grayer. And I know one of my daughters has gone from blue to greeny. Okay, I think I want more for scientific. Well, the question is, do your irises change color as you get older? And I say mine did. How can that be more scientific? But then, that's just you. You might just be free. I might be a freak. I might be an eye freak individual. So you want. You want someone with a bit of scientific insight? Yes. All right, then. Everyone's a critic these days. Nine minutes after twelve. Do your irises change color as you age? And why did we get an electric shock through a felt tip pen mark on your skin when you take a picture of it with an eye fake. Well, you heard the question. Isabelle's in Bromley. Isabel. Question or answer? Question. Why in the poem, it's raining, it's pouring, does the old man not wake up? It's been fairly cruel. Oh, by the way. Hi, James. Hello, Isabelle. It's raining, it's pouring. The old man is snoring. Well, I know why he didn't wake up. Why didn't he wake up? Because he went to bed with a bump on his head. The lad's concussed, he's got concussion. He's out cold, he's unconscious. He's been knocked out by the bump on his head. That's a good answer. Round of applause for me. How old are you, Isabel? Twelve. How often do you get to enjoy mystery hour? I don't know. Not often enough. More half terms, more holidays for twelve year olds. Ten minutes after twelve is the time. What? Great question. Dave's in crew. Dave. Question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Right. You know on the gable end of some houses on, like, Terrace street. Sometimes they have the name of the street, actually. On the house. Yes. Some of them are a bit old now. Sort of edwardian. Sometimes you see two, don't you? Sometimes they're. Yeah. There's one lower down, too. Yeah. Yeah. The more modern. Attached. Yeah. The ones that are actually attached to the house. What's. If that's your house? There's not one in my house, by the way. Just. I've just been wondering if. To attach the house. Believe me, you're totally. You're totally thinking, how much can I get for it? Down at Portobello Mar? You're in crew down at the market. Yeah. Sometimes you get a bit rusty and old. And if you look at it tatty, is it your job to take them off and replace them, or. I imagine it's not. But if you didn't want it there, can you take it off? Will you get done? I mean, what's the situation with it? The signs are obviously owned by the local authority. Obviously. But it's on your house, isn't it? Yeah, but it's not yours. No, but it's attached to your house. And what if you don't want it there, can you take it down? Are you allowed? Because it's not your property. But it's on your property. It's a bit funny one into it. I quite like it. It's a bit like, if my peacock laid an egg in your garden, who would it belong to? Oh, mine, definitely. No. Peacocks don't lay eggs. Sorry. It's one of my old favorites, that. It's a classic. So I'm a little bit suspicious of why you want to know. I mean, I know that mystery hour is something of a festival. For people who are nursing strange inquiries. But this sounds a little bit personal. Sounds to me like there might not be one on your house, but you've got your eye on something, Dave. No. Our local council is going through the process of replacing all the old traditional ones with these horrible modern plastic things and it's caused a bit of a local thing on Facebook. You know, people are complaining about it and I just thought, well, okay, so what's to stop the actually taking it down? Yeah, what was, who does it? Almost certainly unusual for you not to own something that's attached to something you own, isn't it? Yeah, it is. And if you've got an advert there, an advertising hoarding, you know, you sometimes see that on houses. I've always presumed the owner of the house gets a few quid, but maybe they don't. Maybe the outside of the house somehow that. The space. That's actually really interesting. It's a lot more interesting than it was when you first asked it, Dave. I apologize for not having a higher level of enthusiasm. I thought I was going to get knocked back. But yeah, there you go. No, I like who owns it. Who owns the sign on the side of your house? It says, you know, acacia Avenue or Hercott Road or whatever it might be. Twelve minutes after twelve is the time. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Do your irises change color as you get older? I know, I know, but she wasn't satisfied with my answer. Apparently I wasn't qualified enough. And who owns the sign on the side of your house? And that slightly complicated question about iPhones and felt tip pens. If you know I'm not going to repeat it, it's too complicated. If you heard it and you can answer it, you know what to do. Matt's in reading. Matt, question or answer? Question, please, James. I was sat with my family over the last couple of days on holiday and we were looking at moles on our body. Oh, yeah? What time to be alive? I tell you what, Lime, Regis has a lot to offer, but discussing moles seems to be the main topic of conversation. And I suppose the conversation got round to I'm quite moldy and my wife's got a few moles and we've got two kids. Will they become as moly as us? Is it a genetic thing and where do they come from? Now, I know there's lots of questions, so I'll let you pick which one. Yeah, where do they come from and is it genetic? You can, you can go double bubble on this, I think, can't you? Oh, beautiful. Because you get more moly as you get older, don't you? That's right. And they're kind of. I've got them sort of peering all over the place. And you're right, I'm wondering whether they're kind of birthmarks and that and were they there all along, but they just grow as you get older or they emerge as you. So is there like a mole seed there when you're a baby that doesn't bloom until adulthood? There we go. This is a mole related, magnificent, mole related sort of market. I'm loving it. I don't like. Well, I want it. Yes, well. And the funny thing is, when I phoned up and I said, I want to know more about where moles come from, I could tell your research, you just had that slight moment of thinking. They come out the ground. What kind of mole? Yeah, me too, actually. I was going to do that gag, but I somehow managed to guard against it, which is almost a first where I've resisted the urge to do a rubbish joke. Thank you, Matt. Where do moles come from? Do not say a hole in the ground, obviously. Are they genetic and. Well, you heard the question. The signs on the side of your house. There's a few near me, actually. You know, in a residential area, especially in terraces, the sign is often stuck on the side of the house because I guess historically it's easier in Kiddeminster. None of them are in Kitiminster, if I recall, they're all on, you know, metal posts, like street level. But if it's on the side of your house, who does it belong to? The. Your eyes get older in age and that old electric shop business with the Sharpie pen and the iPhone. What's going on there, then? It's 1215. This is LBC. LBC, it's 1217. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour is underway. Questions in search of answers include, where do moles come from? Not the mammals, little rodents, but the skin marks gate signs on the side of your house. Street signs on the side of your house. Who do they belong to? Do your irises change color as they get older? And why do you get an electric shot from a Sharpie pen mark on your skin and an iPhone camera? Any other questions you've got, we'll get on the board as well. I just want to read you probably my favorite email in a long, long time. Okay, ready? You're going to love this. Your mystery hour. Dear James, your mystery hour has inspired the children in my class to set up their own mystery wall. They post a question on it and their classmates answer it. We even asked the school inspector to post a question and told him it was all because of your show. He was very impressed because it was encouraging critical thinking. Please can you give them a wee shout out as we are currently listening along to your show while we are busy at work? Love. P. 345 at Skene School in Aberdeenshire. P. 345 at Skene School in Aberdeenshire. You guys are brilliant. Thank you for spreading the mystery, our message onto the wall of your classroom. That's lovely. That 18 minutes after twelve means we have to be on our best behaviour now. Now that we know that p. 345 at Skene School in Aberdeenshire are listening live, no rudies. Abbas is in Leicester. Abbas question or answer? I've gotten. I've got three answers, actually. Well, what did you talk to the producer about, Abbas? Well, I talked to them about the square, the black square. Okay, well, let's do that then. Fine. Okay. So basically. So, ink from pens is very, very dense in electrons, and so when the phone is placed upon it, the battery is in close contact with those electrons. And so when a picture is taken, there's a sudden discharge of the battery, which causes a sudden movement of electrons from. From the electronegative or electron rich area in the palm to the battery, which is what caused the electric shock. I like this a lot. So. And that's why someone has been in touch with me to say it didn't work, but they haven't done a patch of black. They've done a black square, but it's a hollow square, if you see what I mean. Whereas someone else has sent me a picture, a lot of people are sending me pictures of their hands featuring felt tip markings at the moment. I love Twitter. You need to colour in the square to get that richness of electrons. It's not enough just to do a square with four sides and skin in the middle. Sure. Qualifications? Abbas. So I'm a doctor, but I've done a level physics and chemistry. So what? That's fantastic. Why are you ringing me? Your doctor? They haven't got patients to treat or something. I'm literally sitting outside someone's home, just about to go and do a home visit. So I listen to you on the way. I'm going to give you a Ray Liotta for that. I'm not just going to give you a round of applause. I think the fact that you're sitting outside a patient sign they're all right on there. It's just a routine visit. They're not sort of dying while you're. Yeah, well, this is an if you build it, they will come moment. You can. You can have it straight from the horse's mouth. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Thank you. I look pathetic. I forgot the cameras are on. I'm seeing it like a six year old. David is in East Mosey. David, question or answer? It's a question, James. Yes. Why do older people, when they get old, start grunting when they sit down or get up? Pain. No, it's like an explosion of air. Because my dad started doing. I said, why are you doing that? For pain. Doing what? Not pain. It is pain. He's not in pain, it's pain. No, he is. Everything hurts. How old is he? 76. How old are you? That's irrelevant. Yeah. All right. I'm not asking you out. I just want to know how old you are because then I'll be able to tell you when you can expect to feel the pain. I don't know. Do you feel the pain? Yeah, all the time. Especially if I sit. My mate's got a beanbag. I've been going around to his flat since I was 16 years old. He's still got a bean bag. I sit on his bean bag for a couple of hours, David. I can't get up, let alone grunt. When I try, I can't get up. I'm frozen solid. My muscles. Your muscles are nowhere near as elastic. As you get older, your muscles get less and less elastic. This is why it's very important to do your stretches. Are you doing your stretches, David? Every night, every morning? Of course, yes. Very important to do your stretches. If you don't do your stretches, your muscles get demonstrably less elastic with each passing year until it reaches the point where when they've been in the same position for a long time, they sort of seize up a bit, which means when you get up, you feel a degree of discomfort which translates itself into an exhalation of breath or an expression or grimace of pain. I'll show you now, shall I? So I've been sitting down. I've been sitting down pretty much since 10:00. I went to the loo a couple of times, but I'll show you now. You ready? Yep. Oh, like that? Yeah. Is that what you mean? Okay, that's it. It's pain. Pain and inelastic muscles and your qualifications. I'm old and I'm in pain. Okay, take the round of applause. 22 minutes after twelve, Judith is in Chalfont St. Giles. Judith, what would you like to say? Question, please, James, carry on. Why are professional golfers not allowed to wear shorts when they're playing in a tournament? Is that definitely true? Well, I think so. Because when do you ever see them playing in shorts? Well, that's not the same. I mean, when do you ever see politicians wearing shorts in parliament? Doesn't mean they're not allowed to. Well, I watched an amateur tournament last night and they all had shorts on. So why would the pros not wear them if they're out in a warm country? Well, we need. What we need is a qualifying question, don't we? We need a. Is it. Are they all illegal? Are they not allowed to wear long trousers? And that. You have. You have uniform guidelines in a lot of sporting events. I mean, Wimbledon, there's a. You have to have a preponderance of whiteness on your uniform, don't you? On your kit? You do. So why would it. Why would it be a problematic rule if it does turn out to be a rule? I'm not sure. Because why couldn't Nike put their tick on some short Ferrari? They put their tick on his long trousers. I mean, the why of it will probably be tradition, because golf. I mean, I think there's another vote today and another golf club on whether or not they're going to accept women members. Golf is quite a hide bound sport in a lot of ways, but I like that. Yeah. Why aren't. Professional golfers aren't. Why do professional golfers never wear shorts? And if the answer is because they're not allowed to, we want to know why. If the answer is because they don't want to and they are allowed to, we don't need to know why. 1224 is the time. Thank you, Judith. What else is on the list? We've got the moles, we've got the signs on the side of your house. We've done that one. I like that. Avas was very good, wasn't he? I know I was a little rude to him at the beginning because he said he had three answers. Always gets on my nerves about that. Because you get. Caroline and Victoria speak to you, you tell them what you're coming on to do, and then you get on air and you try and do something else. But I owe Abbas an apology. It was a brilliant answer from the doctor. Moles, irises, golfers. Chris is in Camden, question or answer, Chris? Question, please, mate. Go on. So, you know when you eat food or drink, sometimes you say it goes down the wrong hole. Oh, you cough in and spluttering. That. Does it actually go down the wrong hole, or is it just a tone of phrase? How many holes have you got? Well, I know there's only one in the esophagus, so what? When you swallow. What is going on? What is going on there? Why are you coughing and spluttering? There's one root to your tummy and one root to your lungs, I imagine. Am I sounding shaky yet? Because this is the worst area of qualification for me. But what I think happens is that something that's supposed to be going to your tummy temporarily heads towards your windpipe and that's where you cough, which sends it back in the right direction. But you're spluttering because it's quite uncomfortable and unpleasant. So theoretically, it's flirted with the wrong hole. But if it went down the wrong hole, I imagine you'd be dead right. Okay. You know, I. Mate, there's no way you should accept this as a definitive answer. I like your politeness. I could see the hesitance there. Really? You were trying to find. What's a polite way of saying on the radio, get lost, get lost. I'm not having that. All right. I was just trying to be nice. I can't put Ray Liotta on you. What is the wrong hole? That's it. That's the question. What's happening when you say it's gone down the wrong hole? I love that question. I really do. 1226 is the time. Charlotte is in Bromley. Charlotte. Hello. Question or answer? It's a question. Hello? Hang on a minute. I've already taken a call from this number today. No, that's my sister, my twin sister, Isabelle. So we've now got Isabelle's twin sister Charlotte on mystery hour asking a question. Yeah. Do you have any idea how much trouble I am going to be in at home with my daughters when they find out that two sisters got onto mystery hour and I have outband them from ringing Mistria? You've got me into all sorts of trouble, Charlotte. Thanks a bunch. And Isabelle, you can share out the blame on this one. What's your question? Why do lions have cubs but cats have kittens? I actually know this because then they are all like cats, so why do they have, like, cubs and kittens? Not all kittens or all cubs. I think that there's only half an answer to this question, which is why are baby cats called kittens? And that is because of the French. That is. Do you know what French for cat is? No, what? What are they teaching you in school these days? French. French for cat is chatte la chatte. Oui, vous comprenez? And the French for kitten is chitun. Chitoun. And so we took those words and anglicized them. So chat became cat, chitun became kitten. Right. That's because we kept them as pets. So we had that shared domestic experience with cats and we then adopted the french words for the language. Historically, cubs would probably have been the word you apply to animals that lived in the wild, like a fox. We talk about fox cubs. So when we came to encounter young, big cats, we applied a terminology that's more commonly associated with wild animals, ergo, cubs. I think baby rabbits are called kittens as well, you know. Yeah, that's a bit of a weird theory, to be honest. It's not a theory, you cheeky monkey. It's the truth. It comes from the french kitten comes from the french word for a baby cat. And lions and tigers and big cats, we just called them cubs because they're wild. Can someone prove it? I just have. Well, you get a dictionary. Look up kitten in French. I don't speak French. You don't need to speak French. You can read, can't you? It's c h I t o u n. That's it. I can't do any better than this. Am I gonna get around? You're not accepting, Miles. I don't believe it. This is just the truth. What is happening to twelve year olds these days? It's the truth. The french word for kitten is shitun. Oh, well, if you don't accept my answer, I shall have to put it on the board. Charlotte. I have to say, dealing. Dealing with Isabel was a lot easier than this. I don't believe. I don't think you should have a round of applause, honestly. Oh, that's outrageous. Isabel. Dealing with Isabel was very, very straightforward. You're quite tricky. I can't believe my ears. You come on my programme, you ask a question, you get a brilliant answer and you just throw it back in my face. Charlotte. All right, then, consider it thrown. We'll leave it on the board. Why are baby cats called kittens, but baby lions are called cubs? That is Charlotte, who is Isabelle's twin, asking the question on mystery owl. With me, James O'Brien on LBC. The time is approaching 12:30 Charlotte. Thank you very much. Give my best to Isabel. Perhaps you could give you some lessons on how to sound like a satisfied customer. On mystery. Questions that still need answers include the golfers and the shorts, the moles and the irises. And the wrong hole. Of course, there's a little bit of anatomical coverage there. And now the cats, the kittens and the cubs. Time is approaching 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Up next is Rupert Bartier with the headlines. Jeremy Corbyn has criticized campaigners who want Britain to LBC 1232. Some are controversy caused by my pronunciation of those french words. I'm not going to say them again, but the French I'm employing here when telling you what the french word for kitten is, it's from the 15th or 16th century. Obviously, the 20th century version is c h a t o n, but I'm pretty sure you go back far enough. C h I t o u n is the French. I'll forget it. I'm on thin enough ice as it is. Charlie's in Maidenhead. Quick, change the subject, Charlie. Question or answer? Answer. James, if you're still looking something for the street names on houses. Yes. Who does the sign belong to? Right, okay. I'm not 100% sure on this because it can be different in certain circumstances, but you've got a type of legal rights in land law, which is called an easement, where basically it gives someone the right to do something over your land, or vice versa. They're common in all sorts of situations, but in this circumstance, it could be that the local council has an easement dating back many, many years, which means that the sign belongs to them, but they have a right to display it on your property. Another interesting example of them is on my parents house, there's actually written into their title deeds, the fact that someone has the ability to drive mine carts across their land. Luckily, there isn't a quarry next to them anymore, but technically it could still happen. Is that right? And that's an easement as well, is it? It is. They don't come up all the time, but they're quite common. For instance, if you've ever lived in, like, a block of flats, yes, of course, you're allowed to use the common parts that belong to the landlord and you don't own. And the reason why you can't be sued for trespass is because you have an easement right to use that land. When do you qualify as a solicitor, Charlie? Well, fully, in about two years. So you dig your articles at the moment. Are you still at college? Exactly, yes. And I'm currently just about to sit a property exam. I'll tell you what, if this comes up, give us a call back, yeah? Because I'd be delighted if this had actually somehow focused your revision on your property exam, I think because a couple of other people have been in touch but don't really take to each mystery out. The 1939 London Buildings act would be the legislation in the context of the capital that you'd be referring to, but other councils would have their own versions. The unifying term will be that word easement. So the sign belongs to the council and there's not a great deal you can do about having it on the side of your house. It's very, very complicated to start removing that. Yeah. Because a lot of them date back hundreds of years. Round of applause for Charlie and good luck in the exams, mate. Thank you very much, sir. Cheers. 1234 is the time. Roy's in west Wickham. Roy, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on, Roy. Oh, yes. The wrong hole. Yeah. Through experience, I found this out. There is actually two holes down in your throat. One, as you said earlier, one going to your lungs and one going to your food passage. Mine was eating some salad and bizarrely, a spring onion got stuck in the side of my throat, hovering over both the holes, which kept making me cough all the time. And it's basically a reaction that, if anything foreign is there, other than air going in, you will start coughing and that to disperse it. That's the gag reflex, isn't it? Kind of, yeah, it is kind of that, yeah. Um. What, what? How did you get a spring onion stuck in your mouth? Trying to eat me food. What was it stuck to? What are your teeth like? I mean, you know, you don't always chew everything, perhaps as much as you should. And a spring onion, if you peel the spring onion, it can be very sticky and it stuck to the side of the throat. So it's like you like. Like a fur ball with a cat. A cat with a fur ball. It was horrible. It was very painful as well. Oh, it sounds horrible. So what did you do? How did you get cured? How did you get it out? Going to the hospital. They was going to do an operation. I said, you're joking me. I said, just put forces down my throat and get it out. They said, no, no, you'll gag, you'll gag. And I went, well, I don't care if I gag. I don't want an operation. But anyway, in the end, they gave me something to eat, a sandwich. And that dislodged it in the end. So, yeah, so it was quite bizarre thing. So I chew my food very properly now. So when you say got stuck in your mouth, it literally got stuck in your gullet, or what we both would think of as your gullet. Stuck in your sort of craw. Yeah, stuck at the side. Oh, that's fantastic. So that's what it is when we say it's gone down the wrong hole. We're doing what happened to you, but we've managed to dislodge it with the gag reflex, with the cough, with the splutter. So it is the wrong hole. It is heading down your windpipe instead of heading down your elementary canal. Absolutely. And my mum's got dementia, sadly. And that's something that happens with people when they've got. That is the swallowing stops working and then you get sepsis. So you get poisoned by whatever you're swallowing down the wrong home, basically. So you can't tell you what the qualifications are. A lot more impressive than what I was expecting when this question got asked. Round of applause for Roy. You, mate, you stay away from those spring onions, Roy, all right? Yeah. Chew your food. Probably do your food, folks. Ricardo's in. Felt him. Ricardo, question or answer? I had an answer to the one that chaffee just answered. The holes and stuff. What are you going to do? Add to his answer, because I'm not taking away his round of applause. He suffered. He ended up in hospital. I'm going for the hatchet, so I'm going to give it all in, but hopefully he gets to keep it as well. Go on, then. Okay, then. So you've got your windpipe, which is called your esophagus, and the top of the esophagus has a little flappy bit of skin called the epiglottis. And the epiglottis stops food going into windpipe because you rightly said, yes, if food goes down there, you will die. Your lungs get poisoned and you die. And so food actually can't go down there. And this is where when the guy was saying about the gag reflex or you said that. Sorry, I believe, yeah, food is going to go down there, you start coughing and sputtering because it's extremely dangerous. So all you've done, really, is add the word epiglottis to Roy's analysis. But you do like the scientific words. I do, and I like long words as well. My sesquipa dalian tendencies are well documented, but I don't know if this is enough for a round of applause. Okay. Because you haven't. I mean, it is the wrong hole. What is it? You know? Have you ever seen anyone chug a pint in 4 seconds flat, Ricardo? Yes. What's that about? That's slightly different because obviously it's not to do the windpipe. That's just people can open their gullet, so it means you haven't got to swallow. Yeah. And that is suppressing the gag reflex. If you can open your gullet, you don't need to swallow. So you can literally pour something into you, straight into your tummy. I think that might have done enough. I'm going to give you two thirds of a round of applause. So still not your full hat trick. Goddamn. All right, I'll take it. We need to thank you, Ricardo. Take care. You should be proud. Most people dream of having two and two thirds rounds of applause. The Leota quote is bigger than a round of applause, isn't it? I think. What do we think? Historically, you get a. You get a genuine bespoke Ray Lyota. If you build it, they will come. That's even bigger than a mystery round of applause. I think it is. I'm going to be much more sparing with that. I'm going to give myself lots, but I'm not going to give you money. Tyson. Is Tyrone. I beg your pardon? Is in Kensington. Tyron. Question or answer? Question. James. Yep. Yeah. On behalf of my son. He wanted to know why Superglue doesn't stick to the inside of the container, the bottle. It's a good question. How old is your son? He's twelve years old. I had absolutely no answer and I just kind of thought stupid. No, you shouldn't. You shouldn't feel stupid. I will now probably make myself sound stupid by trying to drag this answer from my memory banks. But it's all to do with the air and the oxygen. It doesn't become sticky until it. Until it reaches air. Okay, so there's a chemical reaction that occurs when it comes into contact with air that makes it really sticky. And so as long as it's in the tube, it's not in contact with air. Sound like the late silver blank. It's not sticky. Okay, so the best way of explaining that to a twelve year old would be. Well, he knows what a chemical reaction is, right? Yeah. Yes. So let's think of something else that really changes when it's exposed to air. That's quite hard to do, actually. So there's a chemical in the glue when it gets mixed with oxygen or hydrogen or nitrogen. I don't know what, frankly, but it gets mixed with air, the chemical changes and becomes very sticky. You don't sound as if you're very happy with this answer. No. No. Actually, I'll have to be honest, as much as I don't want to admit it, you sound like you're on a bit of a roll this week, James. You're very kind. And this one, I think, is a memory banks one. So as soon as the glue mixes with oxygen, chemical reaction and it becomes active. Yeah, I'm happy with that, James. I'm taking that. Round of applause. Are we getting stewards inquiries already on this or am I gonna go? I'm going over the wire with it, Tyron. What's your little boy's name? Shay. Shay. Give Shay a shout from me. All right, but I'm having the round of applause. Good man. 1241 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Jackson Watford. Jack, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. It's for your golf question. Yes. First of all, is it true? It is entirely true, yes. Professional golfers are not allowed to wear shorts on the course. On the course until recently. It's a long standing, traditional rule. They say it doesn't look professional enough to do so, but the European Tour changed it this year, end of last year, to allow shorts in practice rounds and pro am tournaments. And it is just tradition. It is just tradition. It's no more than that. Qualifications? Enthusiastic and struggling golfer for many, many years. I like it a lot. And do you own any really garish trousers? I'm known for it. I've got every luminescent colour you can absolutely imagine. Good man. I think that's important. I don't play golf. I'm with Oscar Wilde on golf. He said it was a good walk spoiled. But if I was a golfer, I'd be tending to agree with him at this moment in time. Do we know why they wear such garish trousers? Is it to minimize the chance of getting hit by another player? I would say it's whatever they're told to by their sponsor, if they choose to. That's the famous. The famous ones. But you. I mean, why did it become a thing to have these really fancy trousers? I bet it's the opposite of camouflage. It's to make you stand out on the course. Yeah. It's easier to spot me in the trees then, isn't it? A round of applause for Jack, please. Thank you. Thank you, Jack. Claude Zinchesick. Claude, question or answer? Yes. None. It's just to correct you, if I may, the word kittens for in French. But she, too. I've never heard of it. No. Chaton. Ch t o n. Okay, but I think. No. C h a t o n. But that's where we get the english word kitten from. Well, I don't know, but it is. Okay, but I've never heard. I'm french. As I said, I heard you. I, she, too, needs, I think, the 16th century word for a kitten. Ah, maybe, maybe. I think, I think I. Because I. My French is medieval, Claude. You see? Okay, I gotta give you a round of, I gotta give you a round of applause, but I'm not giving mine back. I apologize if I'm wrong. No, no, you're not wrong. I've got a feel. I don't know where I dragged that from. I'm going to have to check, but I'm pretty sure it's medieval French. This is so unfortunate. Claude, great work. Thank you. 1244 is the time. Eleni is in Rotherhithe. Eleni. Question or answer? It's an answer. Please, James, carry on. It's the question of why old people make that sound when they sit down or stand up. I thought I'd answer that. I'd answered that. I think it was, I thought it was incomplete because I don't think it's pain. I think it's effort. And your answer doesn't explain why they grunt while they sit down. It does. It's because your muscles are less elastic, so it takes more effort to move them. Therefore, you grunt. Okay, if you will allow me, I just wanted to be a little bit more precise. I believe it's because the glutes, in particular, atrophy over time, especially for people who lead sedentary lifestyle. And because the gluteus maximus is one of the largest muscles in the body, and if you don't train them properly, then over time, they weaken significantly. And this is the muscle that mainly helps you sit down and stand up. But you're just doing with a gluteus maximus what Ricardo did with the epiglottis. You're effectively adding to an already correct answer. Well, I just said your muscles become less elastic, which is the same thing as atrophying. Well, it's not. Yes, it is not elasticity. It's strength, not elasticity. And also it's not pain, it's effort. You need to exhale. When normally you exhale abruptly. You engage your abdominals a bit more, and that helps you make the movement smoother and more effective. How can I ask you a very ungallant question? Okay. Can I ask how old you are? I'm 37. Yeah, well, I'm 44 and it's pain, lady. Listen, I'm 37 and I'm carrying around a 13 kilo baby. So it's painful as well. Exactly. Not effort. It's both. I'm going to give you. I'll give you a round of applause as well. This is getting ridiculous. Stop letting people on to disagree with. That's what happens the other 14 hours of the week. Mystery house. Supposed to be all about me. Elaine, great work, well played. Qualifications? I'm a Pilates teacher. Pilates teacher? Yeah. So big on glutes. Yes. And it's also my first time of calling LBC after listening for nine years, so give me a round of applause. No, you're very welcome. If I spoke Greek to you now, would that be inappropriate? Have I missed? Misread your accent? No, not at all. I'm greek. From the LBC travel center. Good afternoon. 1249 is. The time is underway and there's not a lot left. The moles question I thought we'd have nailed. We haven't. There's probably going to be a few people criticizing the answers I've given. I may choose to ignore them in a deeply aloof fashion, but I still need a definitive answer on the changing colours of people's irises as they age. Amel is in Wembley. Amel, question or answer? I have a question. Carrie, how old are you? I'm twelve. Did you not hear me tell the last twelve year old that I was going to get into trouble with my own children for letting twelve year olds onto mystery hour? Oh, sorry. I'm going to get into even more trouble now. It's all your fault. What's your question? Well, my question is. You know how people say that's the best thing since life spread? Yes. Well, what did they say before that was invented? I don't think we're going to get. We're going to get an answer to. Do you think? I mean, no one will be old enough to remember the best thing since sliced bread. Before sliced bread was. Okay, I shall do my best, Amel. But I don't know that anyone would know the answer to that. Okay, well, thanks for trying anyway. That's very kind of you. Have you got any theories yourself? No, not really. I don't even know why we'd say the best thing since sliced bread. I mean, it's. I appreciate it's a little bit inconvenient. Having to slice your own bread. But it's not exactly the end of the world. Okay, we'll do our best. But I. Don't. Don't, don't hold it against me. If we fail, 1251 is the time. Murray is in Ealing. Question or answer, Murray? I have an answer, James. Carry on. Is the kittens and cubs question. I think you'll find that I've gone definitive on that. Oh, have you? Yeah, I think I. Pardon. Amoir. But my medieval french was pretty much the answer to the question. John. Yes? I think your. Your french mate called you out on that. Yeah, but he didn't speak medieval French. He only spoke la Francaise. Modern. I don't think he was that old. Carry on. What have you got? Um, basically, cats have kittens because they are feline genus, and lions have cubs because they are panthera genus. So it's a species. It's a taxonomy issue. Exactly. Qualifications. I think I heard on Qi. Or possibly mystery hour. It wasn't mystery hour, though. You wouldn't have remembered the fancy words if it was on mystery. Because I'm like a rash. I. So the question is, they're all cats, so why aren't they all called kittens or all called cubs? And the answer is. Well, they might all be cats, but you need to break down these distinctions more. And they're actually different species. Exactly. Right. Round of applause for Murray. Thank you, Jay. Thank you, Murray. Nicely done. 1252 is the time. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need. Best things since sliced bread and the wrong hole. The moles and the irises. Is there anything else? I can't read my own writing here. I seem to have written down a cross between the word cab and the word cake. Anybody know what that might have referred to? Anybody? Bueller? Anybody? Nope. Oh, professor. See, what happened there, Professor Hal is I saw it was your name on the switchboard, and I had a little upswelling of warmth and emotion, affection even. And then I saw why you were ringing in and it all disappeared again. What can I do for you today? I'm sorry, it's more a case of what I can do for you today. Oh, he's good. Super glue. Yeah, you're half right, maybe two thirds right. You floundered around trying to find some constituents of air which would cause cyanoacrylate to turn into polysyan acrylic. Yeah, of course. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And you chose everything but the right answer, which is water. The minute amounts of water in the air and on the things you're trying to glue allow that polymerization reaction to take place. Yeah. Which also explains why as the tube gets more and more empty, you're more and more likely to have to have the last bit getting hard by itself. So it's actually water that's what catalyzes the reaction. What's that word? Because I think Tyrone can use that word to impress his twelve year old boy, to impress Shay. What's that word again? The constituent is cyanoacrylate, which turns into polysyanoacrylate and it's effectively a condensation reaction. And now, what was the word used, like? Catalyses. Catalyses, yeah, water catalyses a reaction. And is that just like a catalyst? So it's not actually changing the chemical composition of it, it's just speeding up the hardening process? Well, actually it gets involved in it. So it's semi incorrect. But it. So it's not actually catalyzing then, is it? Well, actually it is a little bit. No, actually it's not, though, because a catalyst remains inert during the process. Yes, actually, let's call it a reagent. No, no, let's just be absolutely clear about this, Professor Hal. It's not catalyzing anything, is it, mate? I'm delighted to be correct on this vacation. So. So it's actually about what I can do for you and. But what I can do for you is tell you that other glues, like Araldite, they avoid the whole problem by having two different reagents into a different tube to mix them in some. Yes. No, you're right, I've seen that. So. So water plays the. I love it. I mean, you get a round of applause anyway because you're such a top bloke, but I. Who was out smugging who on that. 112 55 is the time. Sean is in Bishop Stortford. Shaun, question. What are the queues like in Bishop store today, Sean? Well, I'm not actually in mission stall today. I'm actually in Hartford. Okay, question to answer anyway. A baby rabbit. Baby, by the way, that's a hare. But no, it's not. It watershed down. Anyway, I've got a girl, I've got a good girlfriend. Yeah, of course I've got a girlfriend. But my question is from my girlfriend, who's banned from calling me during mystery ad. Right, can you do, can you do a wheelie on a tandem with two people? Obviously. Tandem, two people. Is that a mystery? Isn't that just something for the weekend? Is it just something to try. So, is it a mystery? I mean, can you? I wouldn't have thought you could. No. Well, this is it. That's my. No, you can't. Why? Because unless you missed a tickle, you'd have to pull up the. You'd have to be pedaling at the back for ballast, but pulling up the handlebars at the front for leverage, and that's a physical impossibility. Unless you missed a tickle. So it can interact itself. You just wouldn't be strong enough. It'd be physically impossible to a, reach and b, lift. You can't do it. I mean, you could if you. What do you mean by a wheelie? Do you mean, like, what I used to do on my grifter when I could just cycle around for hours on one wheel? Or do you mean a very brief removal of the front wheel from the floor? Exactly. Proper removal from the front wheel from the floor for a period of distance. No. Right, okay. Qualifications? I don't have any qualifications, and I've had a lot of rounds of applause today, so I don't know if I'm allowed. I'll leave it up there. We've got two more minutes. Okay. All right, thank you. Thank you. Can you do a wheelie on a tandem? Clares and Islington. Claire? Question or answer? Claire? Oh, no. What's she done? Sat on a phone or something? Can we give Claire another chance? In a minute. We got. Can we get something else up? What else needs answering? Zero. 345-606-0973 the irises in the molds. That word I couldn't read. And the best thing since sliced bread. Should we give Claire another go? Claire, are you there or not? Because this is going to be your last chance. Claire? What are you doing? Claire, I'm here. What are you doing? Hi. Hi. I'm just. Wait. I was just waiting. Okay. We spent five minutes trying to talk to you. Sorry about that. Shows ended up into Sheila Fogarty's program. Now this is getting embarrassing. That's all right. Well, question or answer? Yeah. So somebody said. What did they just say before the slice bread thing? Well, the answer is, best thing since the wheel. Do you think so? Well, yeah, it came to mind straight away, so. I would say so, yeah. So up until about the 1930s, we'd have said, that's the best thing since the wheel. I mean, I think so. I don't know about Tate and how correct it is, but it just came to mind. So, yeah, I'm sounding a bit. I'm grateful, aren't I? It's probably no. Fine. It's fine. You have to write the question. My answer. I don't like your answer. Well, you don't. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. I like you. You're lovely. I don't like your answer. There's no way. People were wandering around in the 1920s and they'd see a new car or something, they go, wow, that's not a car, it's a bad example. They'd see something like, I don't know, a really cool new play and they'd say, wow, that's the best thing since the wheel. I just don't buy it. I don't think I do. Joe's in Kings Cross. Joe, 20 seconds. Make it count. Yeah, sure. It's the first bread thing is from the wonderful bread company. It's part of advertising campaign. The best thing since sliced bread. Yeah, it's part of Wonderloaf's advertising campaign. What were they? They were selling bread. It's the best thing since last bread. But were they selling on sliced bread before that? Yeah, prior to that. And sliced bread come in and it's the best thing since sliced bread. I'm not giving you a round of applause either. I'm going to end on that controversial note. That's it from me for another week. We'll be back tomorrow morning from ten. I mean, mystery hours over for a week. I'm James O'Brien, this is LBC here. Sheila Fogarty. Thank you, James. From three good intentions and not enough children with special needs.