What do people practice tattoos on? - 18 Jun 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is now underway. Your weekly opportunity to achieve a form of satisfaction faction not ordinarily available anywhere else in the world, let alone on the radio. I guarantee that by 01:00 today you will know more than you do now. How does it work? Let me briefly explain. You've got a question, right? It needs an answer. A who or why, a when or where, a whither, a wherefore. You know, there must be an answer out there. It's not a sort of existential question that defies any contemplation. You know there's an answer, you've just been unable to find it. Well, you'll find it today with a little bit of luck and active trigger finger on the phones. Zero 345-606-0973 is the number you need. What do you want to know today? And if you hear someone else ask a question to which you do know the answer, the number remains the same. If you're new to this, two things. Number one, it's brilliant. That's not me. Blow my eyes. Very little to do with me. It's just taken on a life of its own after the over the years. And that's why it's regularly in the itunes top ten podcasts and what have you. They file it under comedy, just in case you still confused about what's coming up, and I'm flattered by that, of course, but it is just great. But it's also the radio equivalent, and this will sound a bit dry of the newspaper columns where readers write in and ask a question and then other readers write in subsequently and provide the answers. And that's pretty much all you need to know, actually. If you want to get involved, wait until you hear me say the phone number. If you hear me say the phone number, it means I've got a phone line free. I think that's usually I spend longer doing the introduction to mister. I'm going to take one question from Twitter this week, but I've already chosen it. It's from a lad called Max, who writes the Young Gardeners blog. He's currently revising for his GCSE's and he needs our help with his revision. He sent in a rather nice question that I'll get onto as soon as I can find his. Actually, Max, send. Oh no, I found it. The young gardener is the name of his blog. It's a lovely question. He says, I know you don't often ask questions from Twitter, but I can't phone him because I'm supposed to be revising for my GC. Can you revise properly with the radio on? Yeah, I know. You tell your mum you can. I told my mum I could revise properly with guns n roses playing at full blast in my bedroom, but I don't know about that. And he needs help with his product design revision. So we'll get that question on the board in a moment. I want some real voices first, though, rather than virtual voices. And the first real voice we will hear today is Grant in Brixton's. Grant, what is your question? Good afternoon, James. James. I had a tattoo done on Saturday afternoon. Oh, no. I was sitting in the garden admiring the artwork with my daughter. Lucky girl. Took mine to the cinema. Ask me the question. How does the tattooist learn how to use the tattoo? Obviously not the drawing side of it, the pencil and paper. Sure. What do they practice on with the actual needle gun before they. Obviously. You can't just walk in and go, he's the apprentice. He'll be doing your tattoo. Meet me. Meet Michael. Meet Michael. It's his first day. Yeah. What? What you want on your backside? I know the answer to this, but I don't know if I can. Can I get in early with an early round of applause? They practice on pigs. She said leg. A leg of polk. Did they practice on dead pigs? Really? Well, I'm not going to take a round of applause because now I've said it out loud, I feel it needs a little bit of clarification or confirmation. Okay, lovely. What was the tattoo? What was the tattoo of Grant? It's Eddie from Iron Maiden. It's who? Eddie, the Iron maiden symbol that. Oh, yes. What, the skull? Yes. The pilot. Pilot, Scott, the Trooper tattoo, the. Obviously with the. With the Union Jack with a. Sold like it. How long did that take to do it? So just over 3 hours. And how much did it cost? 200 pounds. Are you pleased with it? I'm over the moon with it. It's just a superb bit of work. Give the part. Give the parlor a free plug then, mate. It's a GB tattoos in Northumberland. East in Kent. There you go. That's got. That's gotta be good. That's gotta be good for a free flower, hasn't it? Yeah. It's gotta be worth a row, isn't it? Thank you, Grant. Eight minutes after twelve. What did tattooists practice on? Dave is in Raynham. Dave, question or answer? Hello, James. That's a question, mate. Carry on, Dave. Okay. Why is it that when you pull a nose hair, your eye waters you, you pull out. You pull out a nasal hair? Why do your eyes water when you pull out a nap? No, it's only the eye that waters is dependent on what side you pull. Is it really? You've done a lot of research, mate. I bow my hat to your academic rigor. I was just sitting there pontificating with myself and it was like, why is it that that one just watered and not that one? And why does that one. So you've been picking those hairs all morning then, while listening to this show, have you played? You're not a civil servant, are you, by any chance? Definitely not. I like that. I don't know if it's true. It might only be you. I mean, I recognize the. I recognize the eye watering phenomenon. I've done that. But I hadn't clocked the fact that I haven't got any long enough at the moment because I've been doing so much tv lately, Dave, they keep trimming my nose hair for me. It's true that. Oh, you can't. I know it sounded like a humble brag, but it wasn't. That's why I haven't, because I was thinking, what's happened to all my nose? I've almost always got one long enough to pull out, but I haven't at the moment because they trim it. Gosh. Showbiz, eh? Oh, the glamour. So let's find out. Is it true that the only, the relevant eye actually waters? And anyway, why would the eye water at all? Paul is in Ealing. Paul, question or answer? Hello, James. Yes, it's a question. Eggs. I know this is dear to your heart. It is. We have chicken eggs, duck eggs, quail eggs, goose eggs, and we eat all the meat. Well, why don't we have turkey eggs? Oh, I know this. Really? Yeah. Because. Because we hatch them all. It's a very unsatisfying answer, I have to tell you. Simply put that, because turkeys are such a seasonal bird, it's very carefully controlled so that you've got loads to eat at Christmas, there's not much demand for it for the rest of the year. So half of the answer is that they fertilize all of the eggs that they need to create turkeys. And the other half, the answer is that nobody wants turkey eggs. If you could whip up some massive demand for them, they'd meet the demand. But there isn't any. That's all. Oh, really? Isn't that unsatisfying, though? It is a bit, to be honest. You wanted an answer like, because I don't know. I don't know, actually. That's why you rang in. You didn't know what the answer could possibly be. All it is is that a, people don't want them, and B, turkeys. They want turkeys, not eggs. Right. Sorry. Okay. Well, I feel bad now. I feel. I mean, I wish I could give you a little something more exciting. Is there anything else you want to know off the top of your head? No, I think that'll do. Thanks, James. All right, Paul. Until the next time, I'll take the round of applause. Thank you very much. If I'm wrong about that, I'll eat my hat. Annie is in Bromley. Annie, question or answer? Hello. It's an answer. Carry on, Annie. It's the answer to the tattoo question, really. You were right. They do practice on pigs, but not actually a pig. You buy strips of pig skin and they practice on that. So that means a terrible waste of pork scratchings. Potentially it is. I have lots in my freezer. My son's currently going through this and he keeps saying, well, if I don't use it, you know, can we have crackling? Where does he buy it from? Morrison's. I bet there's never been a fight in the aisles over the pig strips. In Morrison's section, where the pork is, they actually sell what they call a strip of pig skin ready for you to make crack thing. So you just buy that in strips and he's bought a load of it. Well, I have to buy about twelve strips. He's doing a lot of homework then. Yeah. He must be very proud. He also practices on, you know, that his sister. No, he hasn't got a sister. He's not practicing on me, I can tell you why not? No. How long does the training take? Well, he's been doing it a year and a half, and he's got paid for his first tattoo about two weeks. Oh, congratulations. That's lovely. No, he's doing well. And where do you train? Do you train with a tattooist or can you go to tattoo school? You can go to tattoo school, but apparently, according to my son, it's not cool. So he's just in a tattoo parlor with a trained tattooist and he sits and watches and goes home and practices on the pig strips? Yeah. No, he practices there because he has to buy his own tattoo gun and really? Yeah. This is fascinating. Yeah. There's a whole tattoo thingy down at Brighton convention. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I thought it was at the xl, I think this year. But I'm going to give you a round of applause, Annie, even. Even though by rights it should be mine. But I'm not feeling very greedy today. Give Annie an applause, please. Thank you, Annie. Bye. 13 after twelve. We've still got the nasal hair, but we've cleared the turkey eggs and the tattoos. Martin's in Tottenham. Martin, question or answer? Question. James. Yes, mate. And it's a testament to mystery hour because you've mentioned my name twice in the last 2 hours. But I held fast, I didn't want to wait. You can't even flipping phone in under false pretenses. Then you're Martin in Wood green. You're not Martin in Tottenham. I'm all over the gas. Yeah, but mate, it's not. It's not a geographical locale, is it? It's part of your surname. You're Martin from Woodgreen. They didn't ask my name this time and I called that change. No worries. So 50 50 you said on the taxi drivers telling you to catch. You're the Martin. For people who've been kind enough to be listening, listening all day, is the young man I referred to earlier who is halfway through the knowledge and listens to these uber debates with a mixture of dismay and I suppose, optimism. Well, you get two types of black cabbies. The ones that stick their arms out there in there and say, games dead, mate. Game's dead. But then you've got the others that say, crack on, keep it up, you'll be all right. Well, we all know which ones we want to be, right? Yeah. Well, the ones if the game's dead, then swap and do something else. But if you work hard, there's always going to be money to make. My plan is I'll use it. I'll go and start doing science so then I can challenge professor. How? A mystery hour. That is my life goal. Well, I don't know if you're struggling to make a living as a cab driver, I don't know that being a regular contributor to mystery hour would necessarily be a lucrative alternative. What is your question, Martin? Well, I would like to know what the evolutionary purpose of anger is because evolution has a way of phasing out things that make us do stupid things. But yet whenever we get angry, we do stupid things. No, we don't necessarily know. We don't necessarily. Well, name it. Name a clever thing you've ever done whilst furious. Blimey's got me. Yes, well, hang on. Oh, you say you've got me. I've only just drawn breath, mate. I must have done something clever. You normally get me. Well. Well, I mean. Yeah, all right. I'm not a violent man. I was just trying to think of the last time I had a fight. But. But you need the adrenaline. Successful, it's vital. Successful. It's fight or flight, isn't it? The adrenaline comes into you and it gives you either the strength to have a scrap or the strength to run away. So what you're asking is, why do we get adrenaline pumping through our system when we're angry? And the answer is to give you the wherewithal to fight or flight more effectively than you can when you haven't got the adrenaline in your system. You know when you get a bit shaky. You know when you cross and you get a bit shaky. That's adrenaline. And it's always. There's not always anger, though. No, it can be other things, but it is. But the anger always produces the adrenaline. That's the evolutionary purpose. No, leave it, Alan. You get an old geezer walks on the bus and he's furious and makes an idiot of himself and he gets kicked off the bus and he's not. There's no adrenaline pumping through. Instead he's just. He's gonna have to wait another 15 minutes for the bus. If you get an anger now, there will be adrenaline. If he's raised his voice, if he's shaking his fist, if he's genuinely cross, his adrenaline level will be higher than it is if he's chilled. Well, this question has only been refuted if you can link anger to adrenaline. I don't think it's always linked. I'll leave it. Okay. I feel a professor. I feel the need for a professor. Martin, good luck. Good luck with everything. It's 1216 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 20 minutes after twelve. What's the evolutionary justification of anger? The evolutionary explanation? I think I provided a perfectly adequate answer, but Martin wouldn't have it. And why do our eyes water when we pull out nasal hair? I'm now going to read you the Twitter submitted question from Max, who writes the young gardener blog, which has an allotment here I shall certainly be having a look at after the program today. Good luck with the GCSE's, Max. He says, my question is, what is the difference between a screw and a bolt? I need the answer for my product. Design exam. We shall get you an answer to that, Max, if we. Even if it kills us. So we've got anger, knots and bolts and nasal hair. What else have we got? Simon's in slough. Simon, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Splendid. Right. Bicentennial of the battle of Waterloo today. Yes, it is. And I was wondering, what was the bloodiest battle in history? Wow. So the most people dead in a single day or over the course of several days, I suppose. Well, then, that's the reason I tried to clarify that was because if a battle lasted a fortnight, then it's going to be more bloody than a battle that lasted a day, isn't it? And that's not exactly. Yeah, and that's what you want. So you don't mind about how long it took, you just want the death toll. The biggest death toll of a single military engagement. Yeah, that'd be it. Love it, wouldn't it be? And it's got to be recorded history, so. Well, I'm thinking american civil war. Or I was think I was going to go sort of Sparta and thermopylae and stuff like that. I was going to go right in the opposite direction. Genghis Khan or someone. I don't know. Anyway, it's a great question. Thank you for it. Let's get it up and let's get it answered. Bloodiest battle in history. Zero. 345-606-0973 the difference between a nut and. Yeah, all right. Behave. And a bolt. Zero. 345-606-0973 and why does. Why do our eyes water when we pull out a nose hair? I know, madam, that you're far too demure ever to have pulled out a nose hair. I didn't mean you personally, I just meant nose hairs in general. There's one. Is that one phone line three? There is line one free or has it gone funny? Zero. 345-606-0973 Martin is in. Marlowe. Martin, what's your question, James? We know we always use. Everybody use that phrase once in a life, probably more times about sticking your head in the sand like an ostrich. Yes. Question is, do ostriches actually stick their head in the sand? Because I've never seen it. Or photographs or zoos. That's quite a nice question, actually. I mean, yeah, to be fair, I'm confident you haven't actually done that much ostrich fancying in your time. Granted. And also when you have seen an ostrich, it was probably in a zoo, which means there probably wasn't any sand around. They'd be on sort of concrete and water if it's anything like London Zoo. But equally, we haven't seen any photographs of ostriches with their heads in the sand. Right? Yeah, yeah. All right. Do ostriches stick their head in the sand? What we going to do if they don't? Maybe change trace. We're going to have to, aren't we? So the bloodiest battle in history and do ostriches stick their head in the sand? We need some answers to these. 212 23. Thank you, um, Simon. Daniel is in. No, thank you, Martin. Sorry. I'm going to Daniel now in St John's Wood. Daniel. Hello. This is the stupidest question in the entire history of mystery hour. Brilliant. Do you really need to ask it? I don't need to. But you honestly can't work out the answer for yourself? Well, possibly I might have an answer as well, so I could sort of balance out the stupidity. Well, that does. It doesn't really work like that. I mean, my question is not rhetorical, is can you really not work this out for yourself? Maybe I might as well. All right, give us a. Give me, give me the question. Okay. For those who believe in evolution, if humans did evolve from monkeys, why are there still monkeys? When you say for those who believe in evolution, you mean people who are. Right, okay. And when you say if we evolve from monkeys, why are there still monkeys? You think that every single monkey on the planet displayed the genetic change that led towards humanity at exactly the same time? Or even eventually, it wasn't just one monkey that developed something that made its breeding more prolific and that that genetic mistake got passed on to the next generation born only from that monkey. You think that all the monkeys in the world must have changed at exactly the same time? No, not necessarily. Can you see how stupid this is yet, mate? No, not really. I mean, you know. So to explain how evolution works, you have a genetic defect or a genetic difference that one member of a species is born with and that by accident provides them with an attribute that means they're going to breed more effectively than all the other members of that species that don't have the genetic difference. Right. And that genetic difference gets passed on to their progeny and their progeny and their progeny. So you have an entirely separate branch, if you will, of the monkey family tree going off in that direction. And your question is why aren't all the monkeys on that new branch of the family tree? Can you see now how silly this question is? I can see your explanation very nicely, thank you. You can give yourself a round of applause. I'd feel embarrassed taking it. Was this some sort of, sort of half assed attempt at punting a creationist line or was this really just ignorance? Well, ignorance or a lack of knowledge on evolution and genetic study, I suppose. Can't know everything. Have a great day. Peter's in Ilford. Peter. What would you like to say? James? It's the screw and the bolt. Isn't it? Just? What's the difference, though? Well, screws are tapered and with a point on the end. Normally designed for joining two pieces of wood together with no other fixings, they just draw themselves in until the head pinches the two pieces. This is for a GCSE product design exam. I think he. I think Max probably needs, like a one line distinction. Well, the bolt requires a nut to make it captive to join two pieces together. The screw doesn't. There we are. What about have to have a nut? It's a two part, isn't it? Nothing to do with the head. Isn't it to do with the fact that you need a screwdriver. So it's got to have a thing of me in the top of it. No, because you can get a coach bolt and a coach screw. And what are they? Well, the heads can be identical. They're for joining. Both can be used for joining wood together. One requires a nut. So that's. It's all about the nuts, then? It's all about the nuts. It's all about the nut. And so a bolt needs a fixer on the other end of it and a screw doesn't. That's correct. I think that'll do, won't it, for GCSE? Well, I first became aware of it at GCE level when I had to draw both of them for technical drawing. From my O level. Do you think technical drawing has become product design? Similar, but technical drawing back in the day was all about precision. And you have earned this, which is also all about precision. Thank you, James. Well played, Peter. Jazz is in Brighton. Jazz. Question or answer? Well, it's a question, James, but before I go on to my question about this thing about the screws and the bolts and all the rest. Earlier people were talking about eats, shoots and leaves. Right. And I came up with this one. Nails nut, screws and bolts. What? Terrible, isn't it? Nails, yes. Yes, nails. Not screws and bolts. Nails. Not screws and bolts. Anyway. So I'll go on to my question. I can hardly wait. It's about. Yes. Well, it's about the full moon. The full moon. Oh, interesting. Yes. Is there one at the moment? Because, well, through the centuries, people have said that the full moon affected human beings and makes them extra emotional. And I think, well, a lot of police, people in the police and people in mental institutions, you know, they claim that they get extra events during this time. They do, yes, I have. Yes. And I personally noticed that if I go out during the full moon, I do notice people are quite emotional, you know, laughing a lot or, you know, they're getting upset. Well, I have friends who present radio phone in programs at nighttime, and they swear to me, Clive Bull is one of them, that they can tell without checking when it's a full moon by the conduct of the people calling in. Absolutely. And a couple of years ago, in the new scientists, they did a study on people who were kept in an underground place where they didn't have access to any information. And during the full moon, they monitored these people, and, in fact, they had disrupted sleep, and yet they didn't know it was the full moon. So there is some kind. Are you sure that scientists. Are you sure that scientists reject the notion that the full moon effects are better? Are you sure about this? Well, most of them do. I have tried ringing, ringing up and asking just random signs, which is ringing up random scientists just ringing up random scientists and asking them about the moon. Well, there is a program on the BBC where you can ring. Wash your mouth out with soap and water. Okay, then we will try. I shall try to get you. I've got a feeling it might have something to do with the question we had last week about tides. This. There's a link between the two, but I shall. Jazz, I shall endeavor to get you the answer that you so richly deserve. Thank you, James. No, thank you, Jazz. It's 1231 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. It's 25 to one. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery hour is underway. Questions still in need of answers include, why do our eyes water when we yank out a nasal? What's the evolutionary explanation of anger? Of course, that does presume a faith in evolutionary science, I suppose. What was the bloodiest battle in history? Do ostriches really stick their heads in the sand? And is there any relation between the moon cycles, the full moon, and our sanity? It's not by accident that lunatic is a word that references the moon. There was a widespread belief historically that the moon affects our moods and behaviors. I subscribe to it. Jazz in Brighton believes science has rejected it. She wants to know whether there's any refuting or refutation of that that you can provide. I like that. I like all those questions, actually. Let's crack on and get some answers. There's still room for more questions. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Gary's in Romford. Gary, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Yes. To the bloodiest battle in history. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It by country mile. It is the battle of Stalingrad, which I believe it was something like 1.9 million casualties. Wow. Qualifications? A history, a level and some history. As part of my degree, I started leaning towards the ancient world, but the numbers, the populations then were tiny, so that was a silly thing for me to do. Probably in proportion of the number of people on the planet. Maybe they were. Yeah, but not in terms of. Not in terms of hard totals and some people just glancing at the emails and the text coming in. Some people are sort of pointing out Hiroshima and things like that, but they weren't. Battles in the conventional sense is two armies pitching up on a field against each other and fighting until a winner is declared. And you're going with the battle of Stalingrad. Can we prove it? Can we go definitive? Is it? Well, there would be. There would have been also records kept on both sides. Not sort of. You can't go absolutely defender. I don't think there's anybody walking around counting. Absolutely everybody and issuing death certificates. Yeah, I like. I give you a round of applause. Nice one, Gary. Go around issuing death certificates. No, it's a very good point. Steve's in Kensington. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on, Steve. Oh, yeah, mate. Tv soaps, you know, every now and then they kill somebody off or somebody gets married or somebody gets caught having an affair on a tv show. Yeah. And a day or so later it comes out saying, oh, 7.5 million people. Viewers watch that. Yeah. How do they come to that conclusion? Which established that so many millions of people watch that particular episode. How do they count tv view? No, they do it through samples. So they put a box on x number of televisions right across the country and that records what everybody's watching and then they multiply it to get the total population and then. So it's an estimate, but it's pretty reliable. Television ratings are pretty reliable. All right. Okay. So you know, if I asked 100 people. Yeah. What they did last night, right, and 20 people said, I watched EastEnders and you times that, and so then you want to find out, what, 20 million people? How many watched it? You just. You just multiply. But they have a large sample. There's a lot of boxes out there. I think it's called Barb. Barb. And they do it overnight, whereas on radio they do it every three months. On tv they do it overnight. They can. They can tell you now how many people were watching telly last night. It's a reliable. So it's not a true figure, then? It's just. Well, it's not. It's not scientifically accurate. No, but it's widely. I mean, it's very widely considered to be a rely. A highly reliable estimate. Right, okay. That's fair enough. Yeah. It's a weird one, though, isn't it? Because you sort of. Because I thought they measured it. The strength of the signal being given out and how many people are tapping into it, so to speak. That would be weird. But it makes as much sense. No, it makes as much sense as what they do do. What they do, do. What they do, yeah, what they do. What they do, do, do, do, do, do. So I'll share the round of applause with you if you want, Steve. I'm feeling the love today. Professor Hal is here. Professor Hal, for those of you not familiar with mystery hour, is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. I suggested earlier this hour that one of the questions we'd been asked, I think, largely because the questioner was, I thought, quite dismissive and rude about my attempt at an answer. So I suggested we might need a professor to answer the question about the evolutionary explanation for anger. And here he is. Professor Hall, I missed your show on Friday. Did Michael make my excuses for me? He did. And we had a very saucy liquid nitrogen shower together, as you might have heard. Very glad to hear. I have heard. Indeed. I have heard, Michael. Ann Jones had a wonderful time, so I look forward to the next one. I was otherwise engaged at the time. I concur with. Ask me what I was doing. You're on news night. Oh. All right. Carry on. I set the sky plus bot anger. I concur with your answer and I just like to add a couple of bits to it. Yes, I think there are two things. There's physiological response to adrenaline and the emotional response to adrenaline, which is the fight or flight hormone. As you are. The physiological response is your breathing goes up, your heart rate goes up, you get vasodilation and constriction. Blood's diverted to your limbs and your blood sugar goes up. It goes to your limbs so that you can use them. Yes, you quite rightly said it's a fight or flight. My notion is that anger is the motivation to fight and fear is the motivation to flight. And if you're not angry with someone, you can't fight them. If you're thinking about flowers and roses and offering them a cup of tea. That's why they pay classical music at tube stations, to discourage antisocial behaviour and muggings and things. Yeah. Imagine if you played heavy metal or something, you'd have the opposite effect. Yeah, absolutely. The other interesting thing is, I wanted to add was sometimes it's better to avoid a fight but still get what you want. That's why you have things like mock charges with gorillas, or teeth bearing, or chest beating, because if you have a fight, you both lose resource, you both run risk of injury. And that would involve adrenaline as well. Yes, but it's also coupled with intellect. So you're using the. You're using the raw fuel of adrenaline, but also engaging brain to work out the best use of the adrenaline. Well, somebody's instinctive, I think. When you bare your teeth and you're widening your eyes or your face flushes or your chest barrels, you don't mean. You don't think I'm going to bear my teeth? You do it. I just did all of those things. I'm glad the cameras aren't on. Okay, so, yes, you're quite right. And there's a few bits of added value there. All right, we're 50 50 on this one, then. That's fine. Cool. Ticking them off today. Still got the moons on the soaps, still got the ostriches. If you follow me on Twitter Jamesob, you probably already know the answer to the ostrich question. Or you may be not, maybe more nuanced than we realize. Bloodiest battle in history. Evolutionary explanation of anger. We're only going to have nasal hair left at the end of this if we carry on in this fashion. Stephen is in Stockwell. Stephen, question or answer? It's an answer to the story of the question of the moon and the word luna. Lunatic. Yeah, I read an ancient sumerian text tablet which is called the story of Luna. It's called an epic of creation. Yeah. Can we do anything about your phone line, Stephen? It's very echoey. Sorry. Why, thank you. Can you hear me better now? Yes, that's infinitely improved. Carry on. Yes. Um, there is this deity called Luna and he ruled a part of the Earth, which you scientifically proven that the moon was a part of this planet Earth, and he had ruled that part. Now, what happened is he wanted to rule the whole planet and he wasn't allowed to rule the whole planet, and yet followers, and those followers were called lunatic. And after the moon was broken up from the earth, basically, he became very angry and wanted to destroy the rest of the Earth. That's basically what the story about. It's quite a long story, but I'm just trying to break it out quickly. I'm very grateful. And because the moon basically affects the wave of the sea, they always said that when there is a full moon, that you have people in mental institution, they really act. But is it true? Is it? Is it true? Do they, though? Do we know whether it's actually true or not? I've heard stories of it. I have no scientific document to prove that it happened, but I've heard that when there is a full moon, people. Well, I think this may be my fault, but you may have misunderstood the question, because the relationship between the phrase I didn't know about the ancient sumerian text, I grant you. But what Jazim Brighton really wants to know is whether or not there's any proof that the moon cycles affect the sort of sanity of people, the behaviour of people. But, Stephen, I'm going to give you a round of applause for being the first person so far today to bring ancient sumerian texts to the table in attempting to answer a mystery. Our question. No, thank you. It's coming up to 1245. It's got another question on the board. Mark is in Basildon. Question or answer? Mark? Question. James, here's a good one for you. When they build new roads, or the existing roads that we have, where do they get the names from? If you've got a road name called Fisher way, for example. Yes. Where do they get the name Fisherway from? It's the council. Yeah, but I understand it's from the council or the local authorities. But where do they actually get the names from? That is, if there's a road called Norman Road, is it someone that. A guy called Norman that built the road, or where do they get their names from? Well, the really old ones will have a whole variety of explanations. So, in terms of since council started naming roads, how do they. How do they decide what to name them? Yeah. Is what you mean. Yeah, I like that question. I think it's just whimsy and humanity. I mean, there's a couple of places in Kidderminster that must be named after local councillors, because they're called things like I can't remember the specific example, but there's called things like, um, you know, the Steve Smith way or something like that. And so there's some named after local sports people. I suppose you could have Daley Thompson Avenue or something like that. But whether or not there's any formula in place, I honestly don't know. It's a weird one. I know it's not weird. I really like it. But I think what the point I'm sort of clumsily making is that I think the answer will be different according to almost every council, if you see what I mean. Yeah. Yeah. How do you choose what you're going to name a new road? Answer. There's an estate in Kitimas, they're all named after 19th century poets and authors like Byron, Wordsworth, Shelley, Coleridge. Coleridge Avenue. It's just. It's just a wonder who decides. Yeah, well, what we want. Where are we? 1246. The problem is we missed you. I really struggled to get free phone lines. I'm struggling the rest of the week now to keep a phone line free. But what we want is someone who's had the job to tell us, don't we? Yeah. Someone who's been in the department. Yeah. Are you allowed to name it after your mum? For example? Could you smuggle one named after your mum through without anybody else noticing? Well, I know there's a road in east London called Brooklyn. Brooking Road. That's gotta be Trevor, hasn't it? Yeah, exactly. I think it's named after Trevor. Brooking has to be. Oh, no. Braga. I like the sound. I think O'Brien Avenue has a ring to. It's not that funny, Steve. I'll do my best. It's 1240. 612 51 is the God. It's not, is it? Not again. Honestly, my whole life is leaching away every time I glance at the clock. I think it's about an hour earlier than it actually is. It's because of the pleasure of your company. Time flies when you're having fun, and we have a lot of fun on Thursdays during mystery, let's have a little bit more questions that still need answers. Include, is there a genuine relationship between behavior and lunar cycles? Do ostriches really stick their head in the sand? And why do our eyes water when we pull out nasal hair? Do you know, I may have time for a couple more. Also, how do roads get their names in terms of local authorities? Let's go to Steve first in Manchester. Steve, question or answer? It's an answer. James yeah. We've got an answer for the James question. An ostrich would be a tall animal and it's a plains animal. In Africa, they don't bury their heads in the sand. What they actually do is they put their heads very low to the ground so they can spot predators against the horizon. Wow. We should all do that then. Theoretically. Well, yeah, I'm not too much around here because we've got great hills. What are your qualifications, Steve? Well, I used to be a teacher. I've done all sorts of things. I'm working as a bicycle mechanic at the moment. Where did you pick up this little nugget of information? I don't really know, but I've got a feeling it came from a David Attenborough program. The best. Best qualification going, isn't it? Yeah, he's. He's taught me an awful lot, that man. And now you have tortoise, which is how it works. How'd you go from being a teacher to a bicycle mechanic? I didn't like being a teacher. Silly question, really. Would you like a round of applause? I would love a round of applause. There you go, Steve. Thank you very much. Top man. No, thank you. Makes sense that I think there's a. Some people have been in touch regarding nests as well, and sort of checking on their eggs. But that. That line there, that brilliant horizon, because it's a plains animal, it will always exist in flat areas. Get your head down to that and you see the predator on the horizon rather than Aaron's at Heathrow. Question or answer, Aaron. It's an answer. Days. Carry on, mate. So why they name the road the way they name them nowadays? So as an elected councillor, I had to sit on a committee where we were deciding the name of a road and ultimately the developer put forward their proposed name and we decided we didn't like that we were going to put it in the name of a local person. That was sorely missed. And so the name was given its. Well, the road was given its name and it was based on a local. And is that a specific committee that you happen to sit on as a councillor? Well, the point is, the main roading it goes to the planning committee. The planning committee. That's the phrase I was looking for. So if it's not a private developer, I can't imagine these days many circumstances in which it wouldn't be. But you wouldn't wait for them to submit, you just choose one yourself. If it is a private developer they submit, you respond. Yeah, exactly. Are you still. Are you still an elected councillor. I actually am not neither. I retired from being a counselor in the May election. You retired or the voters retired you. I didn't stand again. All right, so you can't help me get o'Brien Avenue because Heathrow is not far from. I don't know whereabouts you are. Well, at this current time I'm in Deckinsburg. So you can't help me get O'Brien Avenue off the ground, then? I can't at the moment, but I reckon. I reckon if you were, I reckon there's got to be some counselors listening. That probably could be sort around Hounslow. Hounslow, Chiswick, Brentford, all that sort of neck. O'Brien Avenue's got a lovely ring to it, hasn't it? Yeah, I think it would work. Yeah, absolutely. I just heard from a listener in Tipperary. Kevin's in Tipperary. He says, we've already got an O'Brien street here, but that's nothing to do with me, Kevin. You can. You can go for the full James O'Brien and really see if you can push it out. You know what, since you insist, I think I will now, actually, because otherwise there could be a lot of confusion. James O'Brien Avenue. Avenue. Am I more an avenue or a street, do you think, Aaron? Well, depends. A road? Street. Crescent? Avenue? Crescent. Crescent. Scott Crescent's got. No. That reminds me of school. It's 1255. Desmond is in Oxford Bridge. Desmond, question or answer? Oh, no. Aaron. Aaron. No. Back to Aaron. Aaron. Erin, we said, didn't we, that if we build it, they will come. Aaron's round of applause. Sorry, Aaron. Counsellor. Aaron. Thank you very much. James O'Brien Court drive. James O'Brien drive. Drive. No. Sounds like a radio show. It's Ian Dale drive, isn't it? Desmond's in Ulxbridge. Desmond, what would you like? What have you got? Question or answer? Stewards inquiry between the bolt on the screw. I love the way you said that. Do we need to have a sound effect? Do we have to write a jingle for a stewards? It's a stewards inquire. Stewards inquiry. A steward. Stewart, don't quick talk. I'm making a fool of myself. A screw is threaded its entire length, whereas a bolt only has a thread part way up and it should be called a set screw, which is a correct term. And bolts can be fitted. In other words, you have a size of a bolt head, which the part that isn't threaded is the exact size so you don't get any lateral movement when you tighten the things up. Can you have bolts without nuts? No, you need a thread on a bolt. But can you. No, but, but does a bolt always need a nut? Yes, yes. You know, it's threaded into something. Yeah, that's what I mean. You could. You could thread a bolt. It doesn't need a nut, does it, necessarily? No, no, you can thread it into a threaded hole. So a screw has a thread going. Is it nothing to do with tapering as well? Because for me, a bolt would have a flat bottom, a flat end. Now, you do have a slight land to, so you can assist you to screw them in, but a bolt will only have a fed partway up and the rest is left as well. The poor lads got his GCSE next week and we're making him more confused than he was. Is that completely definitive? That is definitive. I was an apprentice for about 19 years. We worked as a. 19 years as an engineer. I was going to say, you're an apprentice for 19 years, Desmond. I'm not sure I've got that much faith in you. All right, then. And the rest of the time I was working as a maintenance engineer, and I've since done all sorts of various jobs. But that is the correct answer. A set screw is threaded all the way up. It's correctly called a set screw. And a bolt is only partially screwed. Yeah, you're in, you're in. You're over the line. Have we done them all? I told you this would happen. All that's left is nasal hair. Story of my daily grooming exercise, as well as this week's mystery out. That's all. Is that all that we've got left, is that. Squeeze in one more. We've got a minute before. Sheila's here. Craig's in, I think. You're in Chingford, aren't you, Craig? Yeah, yeah, Chingford. Okay, just a. Just a quick one. I've only got a minute. Chimneys. Most of the pots on the top of the chimneys are open ended, so why, when it rains, don't you get water in your fire? You sort of answered the question already. Because, I mean, the pot aperture is much smaller than the. Than the bottom of the chimney, so the. And. And they get quite hot. So the likelihood of rain actually reaching the fireplace is zero. What, in a thunderstorm? Yeah, because the very little. Well, think you go out in a thunderstorm holding a pint pot and see how long it takes you to fill up the pot. Really? Yeah. What? You made me look a little stupid. No, I haven't. I haven't. Okay, well, maybe a bit. Yeah, just a little. I'll take a round of applause to cover your blushes. That's it for another day. I think I could be wrong on that. But anyway, I'm out of time, so if I am, we'll never know. That's just the way I like it. We'll do it again, shall we? Tomorrow morning from ten. You have been listening to James O'Brien on LBC. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thanks.