James O'Brien's Mystery Hour - 14 Jan 16

Four minutes after twelve is the time and mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction that is not available on any other radio program. The sort of satisfaction that you ordinarily would associate with some of your happiest and fondest memories. It is also now part of the British Airways in flight entertainment mystery hour. So you could. You could be bringing yourself to the attention of up to 44 million people. Unbelievable. Extraordinary scenes. What a time to be alive. What is this man talking about? What is this mystery hour he keeps blathering on? Alright, give us a chance. I'll explain. You've got a question somewhere in the back of your brain that really needs an answer. Thus far, you've been unable to find it. Am I right or am I right? Well, somebody listening to this program will know the answer. If it's boring, you won't get on. Although we have a relatively new team today, so you might be able to sneak a really boring question past them. They're yet to learn the ropes. Carolina. Victoria. In the years that we've been doing mystery out, dullness and repetition are our enemies. What are our enemies? Dullness and repetition. James, if your question is only going to really be of interest to you, for example, there is a roundabout near me with five exits, and one of them doesn't seem to lead anywhere. That's not really going to be of interest to anybody else, so don't ring in with it. And if you sense that the young women who are answering the phones today are unimpressed by your question, please politely sling your hook, move along, free up your space for somebody else and ditto repetition. Although that's my lookout, that's my job. If the question is something that we can remember dealing with relatively recently, you'll be politely invited to move along as well. And that is pretty much it. If you're new to this, you need a point of reference, probably from the newspaper equivalents, the columns, the notes and queries a reader writes in and says, why do we do that? Where does that come from? Who, why? What, where? When? Whither, whence, wherefore? What happened? What resulted? What's the reason? What's the origin? What's the explanation? All of those. Then you wait weeks for someone else to write in with the answer. Not here. Today you get your answer within moments. Today you get your answer almost immediately, which means, of course, that you need to ring me. If you hear somebody ask a question to which you do know the answer and the number remains the same, I'll only give out the number, as always when I have a phone line free and it's even busier than usual during mystery hour. So if you hear me say zero. 345-606-0973 judicious use of redial is actually the best way, I'm told, to get through to the studio. I think that's it. The prize you receive if you provide a definitive answer and you explain where you learnt your answer. It doesn't have to be a PhD, although, of course, the professor of the public understanding at science at the University of Brighton is by far the most successful mystery hour contributor. You could just have seen it on telly last night. How do you know that? When I say, what are your qualifications? What I'm really saying is, how do you know that answer that you've just provided? I make that point because occasionally I forget and then I say to someone who's quite new to it, what are your qualifications? And he'll say something like, well, I've got a bag of gymnastics award grade four. No, I don't mean that. Or I've got six a levels and a degree in baby wash. No, what are your qualifications for knowing the answer to this specific question? Oh, I saw it on telly last night, James. That's a qualification. Are you still with me at the back? Seven minutes after twelve is the time. Mystery hour is upon us. If you follow me on Twitter or you follow BC on Twitter, there's a link now to the mystery hour archive which is actually great fun. Really great fun. There's a long and lengthy back catalogue of questions and answers that we've dealt with historically. And actually quite a nice picture of me as well. Make a nice screen saver, perhaps. Jose in Ashford. Joe, question or answer? Hi, James question. Hello, Joe. Just. Just for the record, I'm on my lunch break. Not being paid at the moment. Glad to hear it, Joe. My question is, why do I sometimes have a bit of a shiver when I'm urinating? Oh, mate, come on. We don't have to start with the toilet stuff, honestly, what sort of a shiver? Describe. I mean, for people unfamiliar with the physiological phenomenon that you are referring to, describe the shiver. Just as if you know the whole someone's dancing on my grave kind of shiver. Just a bit of a. And it doesn't happen every time you mix your eight? No, not at all. My daughter is nine months old. Also, when she was doing her business in her napa the other day, had a bit of a shiver as well. You could tell. You could tell that. She could tell she was making a deposit, could you? Yeah, that's it. And it doesn't happen every time. And it is a sort of. It's like a kind of. The camera's on today because I'm doing some sort of strange physical contortions on this one, but it is. It's a sort of. I'm not going to do anything with my hands, obviously, that would be a little bit indelicate, but it's kind of a quick. And it doesn't last for the whole duration of the expulsion, does it? It just. It's a sort of. Just at the. Like a. Kind of like that. Yeah. Yeah. Why? I don't know. I'll find out. It's a good question, albeit a little bit, uh, indelicate. Mark is in Hyde Park. Mark, question or answer? Ask. Question, please. James. Come on, then. You've got the phrase living the life of Riley. I'd like to know who Riley is. We must have done this before, Musson. We know. I haven't either as well, actually. But I wonder. I mean, this is another reason to check the archive that I've just retweeted from. From out. Mister James, I beat life of Riley off top of my head. I'm just gonna. Can you just sort of entertain everybody for about 27, 28. For just for about. Give me 12 seconds. I'm just going to see if I can dredge it up from anywhere. All right. Do you want to tell him a joke, sing him a song? Whatever you think, Mark. I don't think anything. I'll probably tell you'll be suitable for this. That's a fair point. All right, well, okay. Just keep stunned for a second. Life of Riley. No, I've got nothing. All right. It's on the list. Life of Riley. If you're wondering what I was doing, then I was truly trying to dredge something up from the old memory banks. Because the other rule of mystery are that I forgot to share with you a moment ago is you're not allowed to google anything. I mean, obviously some of these questions could be answered by using Google, but we're living in a world where soon we won't talk to each other anymore because we can find out everything about everything just by going online. You're not allowed to use books, encyclopedia references or the Internet. This is all about something that's filed away in your brain in a way that kind of becoming unfashionable knowledge. Charles, you heard Michael Wilshire this morning talking about calculators and times tables and what you knowledge. It's becoming unfashionable. Strange. Charles is in Soho. Charles, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Actually, I know the answer to the other one, but I'll give you the question to which one? Just why you shudder when you pee. All right. Okay. Well, no, you're not. Just good to know. There is an answer out there. But I don't. I can't take it. No, I can't take it from you. Okay. That's not allowed. You've got. You've. I said question or answer? You said question, mate. Question. It's about smiling. Look, we smile and we laugh, right? What's going on in the brain? You can. You can choose not to smile. Something might make you smile, or whether you choose kind of not so you can kill your face. But when you laugh, and particularly when you really can't control, you know, when you're lifting something with your mates and someone makes you laugh, your strength goes. So I want to know what's happening in the brain. Is there a diploma? It's a difference between the smiling and laughing. What's happening in the brain? So. And it's good because it's one you can't flip it on. What do you mean? That's the sound of a gauntlet being thrown down there, Charles, what do you mean? What's happened? So laughter is more debilitating than a smile because you can laugh. You can do a fake laugh and a fake smile. A real smile isn't controlled. A real smile is. It comes out of nowhere. It's a reflex. Yeah. It's what's going on in the brain. I mean. Yeah, put it this way, if there was a battle going on or someone was really trying to hurt you, you could make them laugh, lose the strength and you might get away. They didn't. They did. Wasn't there an experiment in that? Weren't they going to sort of bomb, sort of drop ecstasy gas all over a battlefield or something like that to try and make everybody kind of giggle and love each other and their war would be over? Or maybe that's just a weird dream I had. Could send over a big joint. Steady on, mate. I'm going to get the giggles now. Which kind of proves your point for you. I don't quite. You can't, Charles. You can't, I don't think, get away with simply saying what's going on in your brain when you laugh. I need. I need. I need. I need a slightly more. Help me, then. What's the better question, then? Well, you're trying to draw a. You're trying to draw a parallel with smiling or not. That's the start of it, isn't it? But it's called a reflex. There's lots of things you can't control. Laughter is a reflex. The kind of laughter you describe as a reflex. Yeah. So what's it for? I mean, you could say, what's it for? What's that? Laughing. What's that all about, then? All right, I'll see what I can do. It might be one of those issues where someone listening understands the question you're asking better than I do. Laughter what's it all about, Alfie? Beth's in Sutton. Beth, question or answer? Yes, a question, dear. Hello, dear. Yeah, can you please ask if anyone knows where the word lap when we say to our children, come on, come and sit on my lap, or sit on grandad's lap. I wonder where it came from, the word lap. Is that silly? No, I don't think it is silly. Is it? You mean the sort of the thigh area when you're sitting down so that someone can. You know, we all seem to say it. I listen to my. My friends and my neighbors and they'll say, come on, come, settle. Manage that. Yes. And of course, we have the inside of your thigh, don't you? Yes. And you have lap dogs. Dogs that sit on your lap. Yep. Yes, that's true. Yes. I have to talk to that. And lap dancing, of course, Beth. Oh, yes. No, we won't go. Which you know an awful lot about, I suspect. Pardon? You've done 87 lap dances this year already. I don't believe my ears. Beth, what is going on? Right. Lap dogs, lap dances and just laughed. Beth. I shall. If I don't get you an answer to that, I shall give you the money myself. It's a lovely question. Your program is wonderful. Oh, so are you, Beth. Thank you so much. It's 1214. What is? Why lap? Yeah, I like that. What's the origin of the word lap? What's going on when you laugh? What's going. I knew Charles was going to cause us problems. What's going on in your brain when you laugh? Someone will know the answer. That origins of the phrase life of Riley and why do we shiver when we. We. A lot of you are pointing out that we did do that quite recently and you can remember the answer, but that is. That's your opportunity to ring in and get on and get a mystery hour. Round of applause. I've got my first complaint. Jason says, james, you are wrong. A reflex is a lonely child standing by the phone. This is LBC. It is 19 minutes after twelve. And that misquoted Duran Duran lyrics seems to have caused more confusion than even mystery hour does ordinarily. More on that to come, no doubt. Questions currently in need of answers on mystery. Why do we shiver when we. What's the origin of the phrase life of Riley? Emma's done a job for us on the laughter question that Charles asked. It's what is the evolutionary advantage of laughter, given that it debilitates us? So when you're laughing, you're more vulnerable to danger. So why? Why do we laugh? If you get the answer that I might give you the money myself. And the origin lap. Why do we call a lap a lap? We're not allowed any more phrases. I don't know why, but whenever you get a phrase, what's the origin of a phrase? Phones go mad with people ringing in with other ones, like, what's the origin of the phrase turning in the grave? And they're great questions, honestly, but we only do one a week, otherwise nothing else happens. Zero. 345-606-0973 if you want to join in, just for the avoidance of doubt. The reflex is, of course, a lonely child who's waiting by the park, not by the phone. That was a joke. That probably only amused me. Dale's in Bromley. Dale. Question or answer? It's an answer, James. Yes. Urination and juddering. Juddering. That's a nice word. Yes. Juddering. Go on. It's from that advert, remember? Yes. Well, yeah, basically, it's the loss of heat, rapid loss of heat from your bladder. Urine is obviously stored at body temperature. The more pressure you exert, the more you would actually judder, because the faster you're losing the heat. So it's the same reason you shiver in any other circumstance. It's about heat transfer. Pretty much. Pretty much. And I heard that on mystery hour. How long ago was it? I think it was. Oh, it's got to be a year now. Oh, thank God for that. If it had been, like, you know, four weeks ago, I'd be a little bit embarrassed, but I'm gonna give. I'm 44 years old, you know, Dale, I'm 44 years old now. As of yesterday. Well, there you go. So, short term memory is not what it used to be, all right? And it's earned you this. There is no greater qualification than having heard it here before. But given that I told you, repetition is the enemy of mystery. How are we going to have to be on my test? A problem, because I've got a new producer, Caroline, a new assistant producer, Victoria, and a new studio manager, Axel. It's all change here. It's only on this side of the studio wall that you've still got the same old face, unfortunately. So they're not going to recognize things that we've done before. It's all on me now. It's a lonely place, this studio, sometimes. Luckily, Kirk is in Holloway to keep me company. Question or answer, Kirk. I have a question. Good. Can a fish sneeze? No, it's a very good question. What in what. What inspired it? I recently got into aquarium loads of fish and stuff, and the Cory dories, which are bottom feeders, they were scurrying about in the sand and then the gravel, and then one of them looked like he sneezed. Yeah. And I thought, I've never seen the fish sneeze before, and I thought I'd pull it up. There was another question that my boy asked, but I can't. I'm only allowed one. You are, but there's always next week. It's interesting that you've gone with your own question rather than your son's. Well, my son is a bit sort of. It's not. I hope that's not reflective of your parenting style in general there, Kirk. Well, what about if you've got one ice cream? Who gets it, you or him? He would get it, of course. I've got three boys. It'll have to be sleeping. I just put a conan of three, so I don't know, actually can. So we'll stick with the fish. We'll stick with a fish. The sneezing. Can a fish sneeze? Yeah. All right. My answer is yes, because I've sort of seen what it looked like. A sneeze. That was the only. So we need a more experienced aquariumist. We need a more experienced aquarium is to confirm. Yeah, we do. Or. I don't know. I can't remember his name. Hooper. Hooper. Ocean and granite. Yeah, Hooper. The character Hooper, played by Richard Dreyfus. And Jaws. Yeah. Origination and graphic. No, never mind. Okay, well, let's hope someone that looks after fish, um, to sneeze longer than me. Yeah. Yes. You're on. Thanks, Cook. Peter's in Wallingham. Peter, question or answer? I've got two answers if you want to. No, you're allowed one. Whatever you told the producer it was going to be. Stop trying to play havoc with the mystery I ruled. The life of Riley originates from a double agent for the Allies and for the enemy. No, it doesn't. I can't remember what it is. Yes, it does. No, it doesn't. I'm afraid it does know that it doesn't. Because what? Because Wayne is embassled and he bought Brewer's dictionary of phrase and fable in order to be able to answer as many mystery questions as possible. And he obviously couldn't remember this one, but he's looked it up and he sent me a photograph of the relevant page. And you, sir, are wrong. Sir. Well, I'm sorry, but I'm right. Okay, so the brewers dictionary of phrase and fable is wrong. And you, who can't remember who the bloke you're talking about is. Is right. I'm talking about the life of Rio. Riley was the guy's name who was a double agent. What was his first name? I don't know his first name. So you don't know his first name, but you're certain you're right. And the brewers dictionary of phrase and fable, which is internationally regarded as the very gold standard of etymological origination, is wrong. And there was. There was a tv film about him as well. You're talking about George Riley, Ace of spies. I'm talking about Riley who lived aaa. You're talking about George Riley, Ace of spies. Well, that's the bloke. And the phrase life of Riley existed long before he was born. Other than that, brilliant answer. You should have gone with the other one. Jamie's in Peckham. Jamie, question or answer? I've got an answer. Go on, then. For the answer that he tried to answer. And I think it's just common sense. Yeah, all right. Yeah, I believe it is. Sir Walter Riley. So, Walter Riley. Walter Riley. Sir Walter Riley happened to be having a fair with the queen at the time. He also was traveling on expeditions, raw expeditions, to different countries to bring back different things. Tobacco and potatoes, for example. Tobacco, tomatoes, potatoes and all kind of other stuff. Tea. And when he committed a crime, he got away with it because the queen pardoned him. Because he was with her. There is only one problem with your answer. Go ahead. I'm reluctant to point it out to you because I think you're going to be a little bit embarrassed when I do. All right. The elizabethan personage to whom you refer was called Sir Walter Raleigh. The figure of speech, the origins of which we are seeking to establish, is the life of Riley. Yes, but are you sure it wasn't drawn from there? I am absolutely certain that it didn't used to be. Oh, he's living the life of Raleigh, that fellow milad. I believe I'm right and you're wrong. I believe you're even more wrong than Peter, which a minute ago I'd have said would be impossible. Hold on, hold on. Listen, listen, listen, listen, listen. That's enough of that. 26 minutes after trial. That's the world's worst round of applause. Dave's in Slough. Very question or answer? Hello, James. I have a question, please. Yeah, go on. I would like to know what the association between theatres and serving ice cream is in the interval. Yes. Yeah. I was at a theater last week and they served ice cream, which I've been to a theater many times. I did ask them, they didn't know the answer, so I thought, well, who better to ask? That's a lovely question. Thank you. Isn't it? Why ice cream? I mean, you know, it could be any. You could have anything. Why ice cream? And it's the cinemas as well. Do you remember you used to get in the cinemas when we had intermissions? God. Those were the days we were told the only answer we could work out between us was that it doesn't smell and it's not noisy. I don't know if that's. That's right or not. Well, that applies to. Yeah, I was going to say that applies to cheese, but of course it doesn't, does it? Cheese is a silent food, but it's quite a smelly one. Ice cream. But there's that. But that's probably it, mate. You've probably gone and done it. I can't pop. Why do we have popcorn in the cinema? Well, exactly. But a cinema. I'm not talking cinema, I'm talking, you know, actual theaters. Yes. Theater. Cinema is popcorn. Yeah. Do you go to the theater much? Well, I went a couple of weeks ago. What did you see? How was it? It was excellent. Did they have this new thing? I've been a couple of times lately and they've got. There's a new company I'm always trying to work out with, technological companies, whether or not they're going to be the new kind of Facebook or whether they're going to disappear by Christmas. Did you know? Did you see the thing that they'll deliver a drink to your seat? They didn't in this theater. No, I have heard of that. They had it at Wicked. I went to Wicked before Christmas with the little one, with my youngest, and they could. I don't. I just don't know how that's going to catch on. I just wasn't. I don't know that it's. Anyway, we're digressing a little. Why. Why have I scream in the theater? It's a lovely question that I'm going to the theater tonight, actually. See the new production of guys and dolls at the Savoy. I'll let you know tomorrow whether or not it's worth a ticket. Dave inslough. Thank you, Simon. In Oxford street. Question or answer, Simon? Our question, please, James. Yes, okay. How cold does it have to be in London for the Thames to freeze over? Oh, I know this. Oh, very. Yeah. Yeah, that's what I thought. Very. There we go, then. Round of applause for me. No, no, no. Axel, come on, mate. Seriously, you got to be stricter than that. You can't be just throwing them around willy nilly. How cold? So, I mean, we know it froze over in dickensian times, don't we? Did it freeze in the 20th century? Snowfares or ice fairs? That's right, yes, that's right, yeah. How cold? I mean, presumably it has to be cold for a certain temperature and then a certain length of time at that time, but it. But it might not apply because the banks have changed, the Thames barrier has changed tidal patterns. It may not be as simple as a certain temperature, but we'll find out. How cold does it need to be? What circumstances. What conditions do we need for the Thames to freeze over? Staying with matters frozen, why is ice cream the snack of choice in theatars? Can a fish sneeze staying on the aquatic theme there? What's the evolutionary explanation of laughter, given that it makes us vulnerable and is debilitating? Who was reilly in the figure of speech? Life of Reilly? And we've done the first one, although a lot of you are saying it was mere weeks ago that we did the shivering, juddering micturation question. I can't remember. So, anyway, we'll leave it as it stands. If you want to get through to the programme, just wait till you hear me say the phone number. Those are questions that all need answers. Can a fish sneeze? Why ice cream in theaters? What conditions would see the Thames freeze over? Lap. Why do we call a lap a lap? And why do we laugh? That and the life of Riley. It's 12:30 Elena Noakes is here with the headlines. The head of the Met, 1234, Lucy and Kent. Two things she says. Dear James, you should have heard the gasp from my children when you just said you didn't enjoy wicked. Two things. Number one, why aren't they at school? Probably they're too young. Number two, I didn't say that I loved wicked. It was a great show. I just don't think the app that you use to order drinks to be delivered to your seat during the interval or before the show starts, I just don't think it's ever going to catch on. I could be wrong. It's a slight digression. Back to mystery hour. Questions in need of answers include, can a fish sneeze? What conditions would make the Thames freeze over? Why is ice cream so popular at theatres? It's an odd thing, when you think about it, to have lap. Why do we call our laps lapse and origins of the phrase life of Riley? It has nothing to do. And I think this will only come as a surprise to one person on the planet. It has nothing to do with Sir Walter Raleigh, the famous elizabethan explorer. Phil is in Crowley in Lincolnshire. Phil, question or answer? It's a hand phone to make. Come on, then, Phil. Fish cannot sneeze. To be able to sneeze, you need to be able to breathe. To breathe, you need lungs and nasal passages and fish don't have those. They have a. An oxygen transference thing in their gills. So they wouldn't be able to expel wind through anything other than anything, because. No, but can't they sneeze water? Well, they could. Well, that man explained was he had those bottom feeders silt so they can. They can make a blast of water come out of their gills with their gills getting perhaps full of muck when they filtering off the bottom. Is that what they were doing? Well, I would have thought. Is that what the bottom feeders were doing? Yeah. Well, you know what bottom feeders are anyway? To be able to have lung fish. Stop laughing. I'm not just thinking of LBC's Christmas holiday cover. Right. They can't have lungs because they keep floating to the top. They do have a little tiny there in them called a swim bladder, but they don't have lungs because every time they breathe in, they'd float to the top and you'd be so irritated. So, so, so what he saw, what Kirk saw was, I would think he should. A jet of water. He's cleaning his gills and it just looked a bit like a sneeze. Yes, I would have thought so. Love it. Round of applause. Well, hang on. What are your qualifications? University of common sense. But I also used to have fish years ago. Well, don't do that. Why say University of common sense? That's not going to get you a round of applause. I need to know about your pisgah and enthusiasms. My pisco? Well, I did have some observation. I would say so, yeah. And then a lot of disappointment when children arrived on the scene and altered thermometer settings. And I gave up in the end. You know what it's like. Do you know, I've got a theory. I've got two aquariums at home now. Oh, have you? No, I haven't got a salt one. I've got a warm one and a cold one. But I think that a lot of it. I think a lot of it is rubbish. When they talk about how often you need to clean it and stuff like that. Clean it when it looks a bit dirty. I think they're just trying to sell a lot of product a lot of the time. I think so. I mean, look at ponds and rivers are completely self regulated. Precisely. Exactly what I say to my wife when she tells me to clean out the fish tank. I thought that was becoming a new figure of speech in our house, I've got to clean out the fish tank. But it hasn't. And I bought some of those snails that eat the algae, the nerita snails, which you don't even have to buy them. I went on a tour of the Thames. Bloke was telling us to look under rocks and they found a couple of these snails have just paid five quid to have them delivered on the Internet. Phil, round of applause. Round of applause. Probably slightly more desirable than a very dull snail based anecdote from the presenter. David is in East Grinstead. Question or answer, David? Answer. Carry on. It was, why do we laugh? Basically, it's a primate response that is halfway towards crying. So it's an empathic response and it's based on looking at the downfall of others. And I've, as a group, expressing a yell or a cry to warn people, but also some nervousness about you actually enduring the same downfall. And basically it's seen in primates as well. Now, this is actually very, very deep seated within a. So if a chimp fell out of the tree, another chimp would laugh. And it's actually an expression of fear, in a way, but over the millennia, it's changed its nature. But that's how it began. That's right. And actually, all the other primates in the group would also start doing the same thing. So when a comedian tells a joke about a downfall of somebody, that's why the audience laugh, because they've got a slightly empathic response of placing themselves in that situation, basically being relieved that they're not having the same downfall. I like that question. I mean, I like the answer. I thought the question was rubbish, but that often happened. Questions, I thought. I see. So I owe Charles in Soho an apology. He's got his answer. It's a primitive, empathetic response, Charles, obviously. What are your qualifications, David? Well, I read this in Desmond Morris's naked eye. There you go. Where did you grow up? Do you mind me asking? Yeah. Birmingham. Which bit was it? I thought you might have been a bit more of my way towards Kidderminster because I've got the old accent radar bleeping a bit. No, I worked in West Brom for six years, so it's probably run off a bit, get homesick. When I heard the Bromi accent, I never thought that was going to happen. David. Round of applause. It's 20 to one. Ed's in Cambridge. Question or answer? Ed? Question, please, James. Carry on, sir. So, simply, why is a green room called a green room? I was at an event last week for micro biz matters day, which is aimed to support micro businesses. What a time to be alive. I'm sorry, say again? What a time to be alive. I was living the dream. So there was a studio and there was a green room, and I couldn't fathom why it was called a green room, and I genuinely, genuinely was tempted to look it up, but I thought I'd hold off till today. I do actually know this, and the only reason, the only reason I knew it or I know it is because I got it wrong in the past and someone explained it to me. So I thought it was because the green light wouldn't invade the stage. Do you see what I mean? It's the backstage room and you wouldn't. When you open the door and the actors were coming and going, the light from the green light in the green room wouldn't actually pollute the stage, if you see what I mean. Yeah, makes sense. But it's not. It's a Stratford based origin, this, and it's something to do with the place they did. It's part of a school now in Stratford, where they, in medieval times, put on plays and they got changed in the room next to the main hall, and it was the room where the council used to meet, and it was known as the agreeing room. Right. Which. Where is Stratford? Is Stratford in Warwickshire or Staffordshire? It's in Warwickshire, isn't it? Yes. So speak. Yeah, hang on, so, speaking to the last fellow about accents, if you had a Warwickshire accent, the agreeing room would become the green room, and the green room became the green room. And that is the origin of the phrase green room for the room where actors get changed. I prefer your first. Your first answer. I can understand it. I did. First answer sadly, Walkowiczi but I know I was corrected when I offered the first answer at a point in the past. I don't think it's been completely, definitively concluded, but that is the wiser. That's the received answer. So does that mean that you've answered the question but it's staying on the board? No, it means I'm taking a round of applause. Ed. Thank you. Thank you very much. Andrew's in Greenwich. Question or answer? Andrew, I've got an answer for you. Good man. Happy birthday for the other day. You're very cool. You're very kind. Thank you. Right. It's the life of Riley. I'm sorry, it starts stewards inquiry, but I believe this goes back to the early 19 hundreds. It was a character in a lot of musical songs. You're not doing a stewards inquiry. I kicked the last fellow into touch. He was talking nonsense. You had the Sir Walter Raleigh and then the bloke claiming that it was George Riley, Ace of spies. So. No, mate, this is still up there. It's still yours. It goes back to 19 hundreds. It was a character in there and he was said to live the life of Riley and that's where it comes from. I can't remember the guy's first ever. Loads of musical songs back that time. I don't know if there's loads. I know that there's definite. There's definitely one. It's about a bloke who comes into an awful lot of money to live. To live luxuriously. It's said to be an illusion to a comic song by Pat Rooney that was popular in America in the 1880s. I told you. Wayne had sent me the clip from Brewers Dictionary of phrase and Fable. And there it is. So you, sir, get a round of applause. I've added an item to your bucket list. I've heard. Take that one off, Andrew. It's done. Oh, dear. Some breaking news for you now involving the actor Alan Rickman, star of Harry Potter, of course, and Die Hard, but also a titan of the british stage. We've just learned that he's passed away at the age of 69. This has just been confirmed by his family. Alan Rickman had been suffering from cancer. Oh, man. What was that film? The Anthony men get truly, madly, deeply with Juliet Stevens. That was his breakthrough film. Do you remember that? With the cello? And he came back from the dead, didn't he? A beautiful actor, a brilliant actor who went from stage to screen, played a baddie in Die Hard. And, of course, was he Snape in the Harry Potter films? He was Professor Snape as well, wasn't he, in the Harry Potter films? There you go. Great loss to the british stage. He worked as a dresser for people like Nigel Hawthorne and Ralph Richardson before he actually found work with the Royal Shakespeare Company. Left Rada, wanted to work in the theatre, couldn't get hired as an actor. Worked as a dresser for theatrical knights like Ralph Richardson and Nigel Hawthorne, 69 years old, star. Also, of course, his breakthrough role, probably le liaison dangerous. Christopher Hampton film. So that is a sad, sad piece of information to impart to you. The actor Alan Rickman, one of the best loved and most warmly admired british actors of the past 30 years, has died in London aged 69. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Time now is 1245. From the LBC travel center, I'm Jake. It is 1249, and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. My colleague Sheila Fogarty, whose dosset times you just heard there, interviewed Alan Rickman, who I told you a few moments ago, has passed away at the age of 69 last year. And she will be revisiting some of that interview with you after 01:00 today when Sheila Fogarty assumes the microphone. A lot of you responding to that news, so stick around for that, whatever you do. A lot of you quite sad about it. That scene with Rowan Atkinson in love, actually. And then Glenn reminds us of how horrible he was to Emma Thompson as well, in the what do you do? Scene. Just one of those actors who touched an awful lot of people. And a testament, I suppose, to the power of his work, how upset people will be at his passing. Give it ten minutes before some idiot on Twitter starts complaining about people being sad. Did you get that with David Bowie? Did you pick up on any of that? People say, why are you all experiencing your grief at the passing of David Bowie? You didn't know him. He said, well, excuse me for having feelings. Back to mystery House. Steve is in Hounslow. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, James. Go on. Oh, yeah. I started losing my ear about five, six years ago. And I've noticed with everybody else you tend to lose your ear on the top of your head, like on your crown and your head. Why is that? I mean, you never seem to lose your hair around the start of your head. It's always at the top. Is that what they mean by male pattern baldness? I think it must be, mustn't it? It could possibly be, yeah. I just always. You know, I was wondering why that. Why does that happen? Well, we did one recently. We had a question recently about beards and why you can still grow a beard even though you hate. You can't grow your hair. It's probably a similar answer, isn't it? Is it to do with follicles and. No. No. I don't know. What do you reckon? Why? Why, why only from the top of your head? And. That's right. I mean, something must happen. I mean, what is it? Do we lose some kind of chemical in our skin? What causes boldness? Only on top of the head, not around the side of the head. You never see somebody with a whole full head, you know, but the side of their heads. Can I? No, you're right. I don't know who would know that. Do you think any of these treatments work, Steve? You know when you see Shane Warne on the telly and stuff, and then the Wayne Rooney and that fella. I'll tell you who's amazing, is, um. What's his chops. The fellow that used to be in Caulfield, brilliant actor, which came mixed up with John Hanna. Robert Nesbitt. Not Robert Nesbitt. What's his pet, what's his name? Nesbit. James Nesbitt. There we go. We got there in the end. Do you think they work, Steve, to be honest with you, I don't know. I don't think there's a lot he can do about it. I mean, you look at Prince William, I mean, he's got a kind of bowl. That's what I always say. That's what I always say. Because last time I did a tv show thing I did with ITV last year, they spent ages painting the top of my head to make my ball patch. BBC. Don't bother. I do news night. That's fine. I can. I can have my ball patch. Winking away. But ITV got all carried away with it and so they said, why don't you do something? I said, well, if it was available, surely Prince William would have done it with all his millions. That's right, yeah. That's exactly what I'm thinking. I mean, it might work for some, it might not work for the other. That's true. That's true. Wayne Rooney's got more hair than he used to have, but it still doesn't look quite right. It's James Nesbitt's the one. I wonder who did his but then he's changed in about three days. Recently he did an award ceremony and then three days later his hair had grown an inch. I wonder if he keeps it in a box under the bed. Right, we've gone off message a bit. Find out for Steve. Why are we going bald on the top of our heads but not on the sides? Nick is in Beckett. Oh, Sydney Reilly. Not George Riley. That's my mistake. Thank you for that. Barry's in cavern in Ireland, but the song is correct. The answer is correct. Nick's in Beckenham. Nick, question or answer? Answer. Go on, then. About the Thames freezing over. Yes. Okay, so you wouldn't freeze over now, although you would get little parts and pockets of it freezing over. But the reason why it used to freeze over back in Victoria times is that the bridges, before they were all rebuilt, were very. Had very narrow arches so that the water would run a lot slower, enabling it to freeze over, so much so that they could actually hold parties and actually have fires actually on the Thames. But you couldn't do that now because the water runs a lot faster. That's a lovely answer. That's a lovely answer. The other thing that came in by text was the suggestion that some of the instances, like the most famous freezes, were linked to volcanic eruptions. You know, when the ash kind of causes an overall cooling of the environment. Does that ring any bells with you? Not from what I've learned in, in the history of when I used to live in blackheath. And. No. Well, I think you're going to get your round of applause anyway. It's. But it doesn't. It doesn't. I mean, the temperature it would have to have been then would still be. So I'm going to give you a round of applause. But that's not. I'm not closing the door on that one. If someone else wants to ring in because you have answered the question. But there's a couple still hanging. Alex is in Battersea. Question or answer, Alex? I've got an answer for you, James. Bring it on, sir. So you had a lady earlier asking of the origin of the word lap. Yes. Well, lapp is a derivation of a German and a high german word, English. The english language is of german attraction. Sure. And it comes from a garment that was worn around the waist, really known as a laba or a laban. It's very common in high german languages, Dutch, Frisian, things like that. And we have a hangover in English. So the noun to sit on a lap is from that qualification. Just an interesting etymology, but it goes. It then sort of developed a figurative meaning in the 17th century to mean to just to envelop or go around. So to live in the lap of luxury, to be surrounded by luxury, to lap someone on a track, to go around it or to lap up water. You know, when an animal drinks, it curls its tongue around the water and draws it back into its mouth. So it really sort of developed meaning to mean to surround something, to envelop it. That's a beautiful answer. That's one of us. One of the best answers we've had in a while. But it is absolutely fascinating. And, I mean, saying you have an interest in etymology is a qualification indeed. Can you remember specifically where you picked that up? That I can't remember. I was looking up some frankish language stuff and I remember reading about it. I actually had to look it up again before I rang you. That's allowed because you were using it as an. A memoir rather than a source material. And it means your round of applause is inviolate. Alex, congratulations. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Joe is in Becton. Joe, question or answer? Answer. Carry on about the. In theaters. Why? Your phone call sounds much clearer than all the others today. It's almost like you're in my ear. Have you done that? I would like to know as well. Can that be the next question? No. Carry on. Ice cream in theaters. Why? Apparently it was supposed to be in the 19th century with a large italian migration. They were supposed to have had it in their theatre halls and their operas. And it was just a victorian craze that caught on. They liked the idea of it and it just crept into our theatres. It was supposed to have started off in the concert halls and the piers in the seaside towns and just made its way into London eventually. Qualifications? I went to see Mister Tom. Good up Mister Tom in London a few weeks ago. The whole family asked and I looked up. Really? Yeah. Came in what night you were there? It was a couple of weeks ago, but fantastic show. If anyone wants to go. We went. I took my eldest. We absolutely loved it. And what was interesting about it is I try and take the kids to the theater quite a lot. But of course, the big shows aimed at the children are very razza matazzi these days, aren't they? Your Matildas and your Charlies and the chocolate factories and your wicked's and your wizard of Oz's. That was a really good old fashioned play. Good night, Mister Thomas. The stage production on that show was brilliant, wasn't it? The stage? Absolutely amazing. Absolutely first class. I saw it as well. Absolutely loved it, actually. And they have that funny little app offering to deliver drinks to your seat as well. But it's earned you this. Thank you very much. What a theatrical bunch we are today. Professor Martin Smith is here. He is a professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex. Question or answer? Professor Smith, I've got an answer for you. Which one? It's about hair loss. Oh, yes. Robots don't have hair. No, but it's happening to me, so I studied it. Oh, carry on. It's the. The reason is the hair at the top of the head is genetically slightly different to the hair and the rest of the body, and it's rather more susceptible to testosterone and genetically different in. How do you mean? I know what the words mean, but where does. Where does it change? Where on the head does the genetic. It feels the same. It's. It's not like my beard bristles, which feel different, or hair elsewhere on my body that feels different from the hair on my head. There, on the side of the head feels identical to the hair on the top of my head. What's left of it. Well, it's only very slightly. Yes. I mean, I don't know how big the change. I can see that round of applause slipping away at the moment, professor. As it gets further away from the top, it gets more curly and thicker, genetically different, therefore it falls out. Well, it's the testosterone that makes it fall out, because it's more vulnerable to testosterone. I'll go on, then. We're all going now. Go on. You've got it. You got it, you're over. Just. Well done. That's it, Mikey. I don't know where all the time's gone. There's a few that didn't get answered. Are there Thames Freezer, actually. Is there? Did we? Did. Yeah, we did. I think we did everything. We do everything. We're pretty damn close. Find out by listening to the podcast, which will be available at LBC Dot co dot UK before close of play today. That's it from me for another day. We'll do it again tomorrow morning from ten. The next voice you will hear belongs to Sheila Fogarty. Thank you.