Can a dog smell fear? - 30 Jul 15

This is LBC leading Britain's conversation. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call Zero 345-606-0973 tweet text 84850. Mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC. Four minutes after twelve is the time you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to, well, I don't know, increase the sum total of your human knowledge, guaranteed, actually, between now and 01:00 by 01:00 today. If you listen to the rest of this hour, you will know more than you do now. Sort of guarantee you get anywhere else. But also generally, if you're new to this, we usually get a giggle out of it, don't we? Or 100 345-606-0973 is the number you need. If you know what it's all about. Stay with me for a moment or two more if you don't, and I will explain. It is the radio equivalent of those timeless newspaper features where readers write in with a question and other readers write in with an answer. Except much, much more exciting. You've got a who or a why or a where or a when, a whither or indeed a wherefore, and you haven't been able to get resolution, satisfaction. The answer why do we do that? Where does that come from? Who does this? Who does that? Why? Why do we do where? Origins of and you know, there probably is an answer. You, like me, live in a world where you could probably find it out at your fingertips with a little bit of astute search engine consultation. But you pine for the days of shared information, enlightenment, education, knowledge, when knowledge was something special, as opposed to knowledge was something you got off Wikipedia. Why do I need to read books? Everything I need to know is already on the Internet. You know that's nonsense. So we're just trying to celebrate knowledge because it's more about the answers, in a way, than the questions. This hour, it's why you know what you know. And the answers to that are brilliant. It can be right up from the top of the academic tree. One of our most popular and frequent contributors is the professor of the public understanding of science at the University of Brighton. We also have a professor of robotics at the University of Middlesex, makes frequent appearances. But at the other end of the scale, the answer to the question, when I say, how do you know that bit of knowledge? What are your qualifications? You could say something as banal as I saw it on telly last night, James, and even occasionally I heard it on mystery hour last year. Although we. We try to avoid that, because one of the two criteria under which you won't be invited to join in is repetition, if we can remember dealing with it recently, and dullness, which is a little bit in the eye of the beholder. Or indeed, as it always says in pubs, management reserves the right to refuse permission. If we think it's boring, you won't get on. And if it's about cars, motoring, or indeed a question to which you're probably the only person who will be interested in the answer, then chances are it's boring. That's it really. I always promise every week for people who listen on the podcast because they can't listen to the radio program live. I always promise to get you involved and then I subsequently forget, but not today. I will definitely get you involved. If you've submitted a question under hash twittermysteryhour, I will find it and I will ask the best one. If you're listening on the podcast, do, do that. Get involved in that. The more people do it, the harder I will find it to completely forget in subsequent weeks. Otherwise, I think we should just crack on seven after twelve. It can be as silly as, or as serious as you like, and if you hear someone ask a question to which you know the answer, then hit the numbers. You'll only hear me say the numbers as ever on the program when I have phone lines free. Let's start with Adam, who is in Southend. Adam, what's your question? Hi, James. I want to know, are olive stones used for anything other than planting and growing more olives? Like what? Well, I was having my olive and sea bean salad the other day and I was left with a pile of very hard stones on my plate that I couldn't chew into. And I thought to myself, well, the factories where they pick them and put them in jars must be left with mountains of these things. I wonder if they actually use them because it's quite a hard substance. So can you use olive stones for something other than planting olive trees? Yes, that's what I want to know. Do you know, recycle them and use them as a ground and down and use them because they've got nutrients in, or do they. It's a good question. I thought it was a stupid question, but I'm trying to guard against telling people that I think their questions are stupid because usually 30 seconds later I realize it's me that's stupid. And the question was actually pretty good. I quite like that. Do you know, can I tell you something? If you promise not to tell anybody else. Yeah. I often think the same thing about toenails. Well, kernows are kind of. Because my background is biological science. Is it? I kind of know what they're made of, so I don't wonder about that so much. Well, I know what they're made of, Keratin. But. But, yeah. When I've done a good clip, especially if I've left it a while and you've got your little pile on the bedside table of ten of them, it just feels. It feels substantial. I often find myself thinking, as I contemplate the pile of. Especially if I've got them in the palm of my hand and I'm sort of sprinkling them around a bit, I think to myself, these should. You should be able. These should be useful for something. There's a lot of them and it's an infinite supply. Imagine if we could harness the power of toenails, Adam. We would probably solve a whole bunch of the planet's problems by lunchtime. So your olive stones are my toenails? Yeah. I think the difference is that olives are done at mass levels in one factory. Yes. So are toes. You have to get a hell of a lot of feet together in one place to build it up enough. You could have a nail bank. You could just have somewhere where you drop your nails off on the way to work. Why are you trying to complicate things? This is a brave new world I'm building, but. All right, we'll stick with the olive stoves. And I sense you think I should leave the toenails out of it. Unless you want to carry your bags of toenails to work every day. Yeah, all right. Yeah. Okay. Just details, a few flaws, a few early floors, mate. Come on. Rome wasn't built in a day. Do you think anyone said this to Dyson when he came up with the idea for a new hoover? What can you do with olive stones? Do they do anything with olive stones? I said, I know what you mean. They sure, you could pebble dash a house or something like that. Stan is in the strand. Question or answer, Stan. Question, please. But you can use your toenails to clean between your teeth. Oh, geez, man, that's rank. No, seriously, steph, that's not big and it's not clever. That's, ah, people are having their lunch. Carry on. Yeah. Anyway, um, do we give off. Someone says, oh, don't, don't, uh, don't show fear to the dog because they can smell it. Yeah. Actually give off an odor to an animal. That will inflammation the other odors we give off. So do you want to go. Do you want to go all in on smell or should we broaden it out till sense? Can a dog sense a human's fear, or do you want to go in on smell? I prefer the smell because I think you can see fear. You can, but I don't know if a dog can. Just because you can. Yeah, but I just think they go. And I'm just going on the expression, they say, I don't do it because you can smell fear. And I'm just thinking, if I go for a jog and I'm sweating. Yeah, it can't be that, because otherwise dogs would be attacking you all over the place. So it's not just fear, it's not sweat that they smell it. So it could be an emotional pheromone or. I like that, dude. Can dogs really smell fear? And if the answer to that question can broaden it out to sense, then I'll give him the money myself. But Stan has been quite adamant. He wants it all about the smell, not about touch, taste. What else would there be hearing? Of course he can't hear fear poem. Rupert's in Twickenham. Question or answer, Rupert. That's a question. Yes. Concerns books. Why is it that, and this is about 98% of times, why is it that the title of a book on the spine of the book, in English, for english books, rather, is written from top to bottom, and yet for any foreign books, particularly french, german, etc, they're written from bottom to top. Are you sure about this? Yeah, well, I would say about 98, but they're written horizontally. They're not written vertically. If you were to sort of tilt your head onto your right shoulder, you would read, hang on a minute, not if you're driving. Not if you're driving. I have to do this, Rupert. You think I'm joking? I have to tell people if you're driving. Ignore what Rupert's telling you to do now. I'll do it on your behalf. Okay. Head on right shoulder and look at the spine of the book that's you're reading it from top to bottom. And if it was a french book or a german book, the title and author probably is written from bottom to top. So. Yeah, because. Because the right way up is determined by the front cover, not by the spine. So you've got the front cover in front of you and it's the right way up. You turn to the spine and an english book would go from top to bottom and a french book would go from bottom to top. That's correct. Why didn't you put it like that? Why don't you do my shoulders? Well, it's just a different way of putting it, isn't it? Contortions and cramping my right shoulder. So why is that size? I like that. I like that question. Why? English books seem to be spined differently from all other books. I mean, I haven't checked many, have you? I mean, loads that I've looked at. I've come across the odd one that maybe is different, but there's an odd one. I like that question. I shall endeavor to find you an answer. Of course, there's always a danger on mister. There just isn't one. It's an answer you give to your children frequently with the summer holidays that are upon us. Because I say so or because it is. Thank you, Rupert. Jim's in horn church. Jim, question or answer? Yes, it's a question, James. Yes. As someone who's just recently started playing golf, how you finding it? Hard. Very hard, in fact. But I've been over the driving range. But I've just started playing on the courses. And when you drive off, if you mishit it and the ball goes left or right onto another fairway, you shout out, four. And I just wondered where. Why you use the word for we must have done this before. Before, we must have done it. I've even asked other golfers, and they don't seem to know afore you go. You know when you buy a bottle of bells and it says, afore ye go? Yes, I do know that. On the. On the side of it. I thought you might, Jim. I thought you might. And a four. It must be something to do with that, mustn't it? For, like, short for a four. Coming towards a four. That's what it'll be. But I clearly, as I'm proving, I think fairly conclusively, don't know the answer. No, I don't either, but I'm sure someone will. Yeah, that's got to be up there. That's got to be easy. Come on. That's low hanging fruit. You've never got a mystery. Our round of applause. Jim's just giving you an open goal. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number to call. Can you use olive stones for anything? Do you know, I mention this, David, because you're clearly a man of epic achievement. David Arnold, of course, the film composer, he's done some cracking work. But perhaps most famous for his work on the Bond films, he's just tweeted to say olive stones are used for the oil. That's where the oil comes from. I don't think that's true, mate. Olive oil comes from olives and the stones are what's left over. I could be wrong, but we've got an answer to that coming up. What can you use olive stones for? Can dogs smell fear? Why do english books have the title written up the spine in one direction and all other books have it written in the other? And why do golfers shout for why? The word for don't ring me up and say, oh, it's to stop people getting hit by a low flying golf ball. Jones. I know why they shout four. I know why they shout, but why do they use the word for when they shout? Yeah. All right. It's 1215 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC, 20 minutes after twelve. Can you use the leftover olive stones for anything? I've got a feeling I'm going to have to issue an apology to David Arnold, the superstar film composer, who contacted me to tell me it sells me right, for reading out tweets. Just making exceptions should never do that. One rule for all tells me that they can actually grind down elements of the stones and add it to the oil. Can dogs really sense human fear? Why does the title of a book on an english publication go one way on the spine and on non english publications apparently go the other way? And why do golfers shout for why? The word for Nick's in Teddington. Question or answer, Nick. It's an answer, James. Carry on, Nick. Well, I've just got back from Puglia, which is a huge olive producing part of Italy, and apparently when you've pressed the olives and got the oil extracted, all the oil and the pips and nuts are letting stones are left, they can dry. I don't know if they dry them first, but they. I think there's some process and then they put them into an auger and then they heat their houses through the winter with them. Well, this is what I was told. My brother is in the process of buying a place there and has looked into it as a way of heating the house during winter. And apparently, you know, because it's a huge resource. Yeah, a biofuel, literally. I mean, it's a classic biofuel. I didn't see it working in practice. But the place we were staying, apparently that they used that method to heat their place in the. In the winter. But obviously, you know, if they're living there full time, then that's. They can monitor it and keep on top of it, but if you're, you know, if you're popping in and out, that's probably not the most efficient way of doing it. I like it. I think that there is also some. Some. I mean, what did he say? You could get some more oil from them? Yeah, I'm not sure about that. Oh, don't say that. Sorry. Don't say that. He's supposed to be going back to work. What do you know about olives? Well, he knows a lot about olives, ok? He's got a mate who's got an olive plantation. Don't come on here and start dissing David Arnold. I know him through works. Do you really? It's a small old world, isn't it? Right, I'm gonna give you a round. I'm gonna give you a round of applause, but I think sometimes that there are. Well, I'll give you a round of applause. There we go. Thank you. No, thank you. Are you a musician as well? No, I work in the film industry, designing stuff. Oh, fair enough, fair enough. Um, because we used to have theme tunes. Do you remember? Whatever happened to the mystery, our theme tunes? Can we dig any of them out? I love the mystery, our theme tunes. Can we find clumsy tongues? I like that one. We haven't listened to clumsy tongues for a while. No, no. What was. What was the. What was the acoustic one? Not clumsy tongue. Clumsy tongue was quite hip hop. Yeah. And then there was the nice bloke who did it. Started all off. You think I'm making this up. We had. We had a cornucopia of mystery, our theme tunes. At one point, Leslie's in Twickenham. Leslie, question or answer? Oh, it's an answer, Jane. Carry on, Leslie. Well, in the sixties, I used to work. Well, that was my profession. I was a typographer and a designer. Oh, yes. And I used to work for Cambridge University Press. Ah, this is the book question that you're going to answer. Yeah. On the bench on the Euston Road in a Bentley house. Oh, yes. And when I went there, I was the only designer there and I was straight out of art college. Cool job. I know, I know. You know, I was never unemployed. I came straight to London and got a job in a week. Really? Anyway, John Dreyfus, who was a famous typographer, used to come in weekly to our offices to offer his expert advice. And we used to go down to the library and look at the books and the spine. Yeah. And they go both ways, top to bottom. Bottom to top. So there's no rule, really. So Rupert's observations were unscientific. Yeah, yeah. Hang on a minute. Stewards inquiry, is it? Well, Rupert rang from Twickenham as well. Oh, did he? Oh, did he? How do I know that? I haven't been. So how do I know that your fondest ambition wasn't to answer a question on mystery, Aaron, that Rupert is actually your husband or close friend or possibly secret lover, and he rang in with a question he knew you'd be able to answer so that you, with your quite exclusive knowledge, could ring in and get a round of applause. No, James, I've just come back from Martin Spencer's in Twitter in Teddington, and I got through the door and I heard it and I thought, I know the answer to this. All right. Well, there isn't really a true answer. Why did you go to the Martin Spencers in Teddington and not the one in Twickenham? Because. That's a good question. It's quite a nice car park and fair enough, they can wash your car, you know. Do you know what I think the real reason is? Go on. There's a very real danger of bumping into Steve Allen if you shop in Marks and Spencer's in Twickenham. Well, actually, listen, I'll tell you what happened to me with Steve Allen. I was driving along in my little. My little car. Yeah. And I was behind Steve Allen. I'm sure I was behind him and I was going to home base and he went to home base and I thought, I'm sure he thinks I'm stalking him because I'm behind him and I followed him in all the way into home base. All the way into home base. You probably would think you were stalking him. He's got a very high opinion of himself. Yeah, yeah. And I think it was him, but I just. Was he in a Bentley? He was, yeah, yeah, probably was when he got to home base. Yeah. Did he open the boot of the Bentley and start taking stuff out of all the Poundland bags and putting it in Marks and Spencer's bags before he drove home and the neighbors saw him getting the shopping out of the boot? No, he passed. He does that a lot. No, he parked in the part of home base, which is a bit secret. Did he? Yeah, and I parked there once, but I had to sit there for half an hour because I've got a Nissan Figaro car and I've got a long. There's no. You get in the back. There's only one door. Somebody parked close to me. I can't actually get in my car. So you have to wait for them to go before you can open? Yeah. You remind me of a housing estate a couple of years ago where they built garages and it was all, you know, big and. But actually, by the time you're driven into the garage, no normal sized car could be opened. No. Yeah, I tried to get a refund. I have to sit in the passenger seat and wait for them to go. You're listening to the Leslie and Twickenham show on LBC and you've just done this. Leslie. Sorry, you. Round of applause. You got that? Yeah. Good, thank you. You don't sound very excited about it. Yeah, I am. All right. Okay, bye. 26 after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Here you go. This is what we were talking about. You don't believe me, do you? Recent arrivals at mystery hour towers. Here we go, here we go. Unexplained, some things remain as a mystery, leaving you with no words left to say. Like, mister Bean, give your itch to me scratch. Mystery. Who's he? Clumsy tongue. And you're listening to James O'Brien on the LBC. It's lovely. You've got the other ones as well. What was the name of the fellow who came up. We'll drop in in a bit. What's the name of the fellow who came up with the first one? Chris. Often Chris had his children on backing vocals. I want Chris. And what's the other fella called? The one that did the acoustic y version? Fizzy 50. Fizzy 50. Okay. Greatest hits of mystery. Terry is in barking. Question or answer, Terry? Question for your jones. Carry on, Terry. Seven sisters road over in north London there. Yeah, go on. Who's a seven sisters? You know, I bought a book a couple of years ago so I'd be able to answer all these questions. You know what, Terry, at my time of life is in one ear, out the other. Well, there you go. It might have been witches, was it? Which is. You reckon they hang some witches or trees? That's not really definitive, witches or trees, is it? Come on, James, you're the expert, mate. I want to know. Not the flipping expert. I'm putting that out. Although you remind me of a hilarious joke that's coming from Italy in the last ten minutes. It says, dear James, nail clippings make excellent rose fertilizer, as do the beard shavings from your electric razor. I'm surprised you didn't know this, as you seem to know everything. Else? Yeah, thanks a bunch. Eureka. Emailing me from your lovely venetian palazzo. Let's find out for Terry. What are the seven sisters named after? As in seven Sisters Road. Ben's in Shoreditch. Question or answer? Question, please carry on. Ben, I'd like to know why bus drivers don't have to wear seat belts. All right, I'll wait for a bus driver. I think I know the answer. Have I had a round of applause yet today? I'm not sure I have. Shall I answer this? I'd know. I won't answer this one because I'm not definitive on it. Same with mini cab drivers, but still. We'll find out for you. If you know the answer to that and you drive a bus, give us a quick call. John's in reading. John, question or answer? That's an answer to your golfing four question? Yes. Why? The word for it's actually shortened for. From. I think it was something like lookout before, certainly from the word before. And it was from the days, I think, napoleonic war, something like that. Where they had two rows of soldiers before. Before as in front of me? Yes, as in before. As in lookout before, shortened to before. And then it was short onto four, so the first rank of soldiers would duck. So the second rank of soldiers would fire their guns. They reload their rifles. Yeah. The rear rank would then shoot and then they would shout the warning so they didn't stand up and get shot in the back of the head. A four. Look. A four. What are your qualifications? 16 years in the military and I tend to pick up on military stuff and it sticks in my noggin for some reason. I'm going to give you a round of applause on this because it's a beautiful answer and if it turns out not to be true, I will be disappointed. But I've got no reason to doubt you, John. I'll refund you tomorrow. Yes, I would. Yeah, tomorrow. You have to ring in and give it back. It's coming up to 12:30 you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Questions that still need answers and dogs sense, smell, fear. What were the seven sisters? As in the famous London landmark seven sisters road? And why do bus drivers not have to wear seatbelts? If you can answer any of those, give me a call now. If you've got a question of your own that hasn't been answered, give me a call now. I've got a couple of phone eyes for you. Not least because I'm just waving goodbye to John in reading zero, 345-606-0973 I'm James O'Brien. It's 12:30 mystery hour with James O'Brien on LBC 33 minutes after twelve. This is potentially going to be a controversial mystery. I can already see some dispute over the question about shouting four at golf. The bus driver's question that hasn't been answered yet. Again, I think it's obvious, but I want a proper bus driver. You can only answer that if you're a bus driver. Why don't bus drivers wear seatbelts? The origins of seven sisters, as in the road. Can dogs sense fear? The number you need is 034-56-0609 we were also having a little bit of a trip down memory lane when Mystery O had its own theme tunes. We had to stop playing the theme tunes when we changed from LBC 97.3, a London based radio station, to LBC leading Britain's conversation, a national radio station. But, you know, nothing wrong with a little bit of. A little bit of retrospective musical pleasure. This is how it all started. Every Thursday at noon on LBC, it's mystery out with Mister James Ob by 01:00 p.m. Sure you're gonna know more than you did before. Mystery out. Mystery out. 97.3. Happy days. John, is it? That was Chris offenand family. John is in Stratford. John, question or answer? Answer, James. Carry on. Hello, James. Yeah. By the seven sisters. Oh, yes, right, yeah. There were seven trees located there, so they had to cut those seven trees down to build the station. And the trees were called the Seven Sisters? Yeah, that's why they. That's right. So the name was just transferred onto the station of seven sisters? Yeah. Qualifications? I read it in a book when I was doing a project. What was the project? I was writing about early life in Tottenham. Blimey, that'll do. So when I said trees or witches, I was actually right. No, trees. They were trees. Yeah, but trees or witches. I was right. So you were indefinite, were you? I'm definitive. That little chuckle at the end, that's adding insult to injury, my friend. It's all very well putting me in my place and teaching me the rules of a game I invented, but that callous little chuckle at the end, that's just outrageous. But not outrageous enough to deny you this, John. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Nicely played. Simon's in Halston. Um, question or answer, Simon? Answer. Yes, it's regarding to the, um, lunt, the bus drivers wearing seat belts. Are you. Are you a bus driver? No, I'm not. But I'm. No, sorry. Yes. No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No, I was quite clear. There was only bus drivers who were allowed to answer this question. I can tell you why. No, stop talking. You're not allowed to. It's bus drivers only. Come on, James. Well, I mean, what's the. What's the point of making rules up as I go along if I let people like you break them willy nilly? Do you want me to take a picture of a bus driver wearing a seat button and I'll tweet it to you? Hang on. I nearly died of excitement then. Yes. So they do sometimes wear seatbelt. Go on. And you're an enthusiast. You can do. It's the next best thing to a driver. Okay. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. They do wear seatbelts. The older the buses, they don't wear the seat belts. The newer the bus driver, the newer the buses. They do wear seatbelts. Are you sure? Yes. What if. What if in my area that drivers wear seatbelts? But I would have thought the answer was that, you know, they have a lot to do. They've got to collect fares. They've got to turn and talk to people. They might have to jump up and grab someone who's trying to run away without paying. You know, they can't be pinned in all the time like that. That's what I thought. But I asked them why and they said, well, because of the safety laws that they have enforced recently, you know, but none of the passengers wear seatbelts. That's true. But like, they only use. They only have seatbelts for the passengers if it's the buses are on for hire. Okay. Yeah. Qualification. Simon, as I said before, I'm a bus enthusiast and I love transport in general. No, I love transport in general as well. Bigger on cranes and bridges, though. But sometimes just looking at stuff can give you an excitement other people never understand. I wouldn't go shoot a lion, don't get me wrong, but I like admiring. I've already put out on Facebook already, given my ears and views on that already. So thank God for that, because I know I, for one, was very worried that we hadn't heard enough from you on that subject. Yeah, but honestly, I heard it this morning. I just said, that's it. I'm posting something. I think I'm friends with you on Facebook as it is. Your. Is it on my page? No, it's not on your page. What? It's on my page. What? No, no, it's all right. No, no, no. You know, this is the Leslie from Twickenham show. Don't you know the Simon from Halston show? No. I know you're trying to sort of steal some of her thunder now, with a bit of background, biographical information. I bet you've never been stuck in a car park because your car was part too close to the car next door, so you couldn't open the door, have you? No. And you supposed to be a transport enthusiast? I am a transport. All right. Have a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. Susan's in Edinburgh. Susan, question or answer? Oh, hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on, Susan. Well, the other night my husband called me to. To the kitchen because we live in. Steady on. I say, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I don't know what passes for tour radio in Scotland, but, yeah, I go, you. This is a family program, Susan. I apologize. It wasn't anything dodgy. Oh, good counting. Sorry, my apologies for interrupting. That's all right. And anyway, so we live on the top floor. Yes. And he said, you have to come through and see this. And it was loads and loads of bats. We're just flying around outside the window. Yes, it was really cool. You know, they're like ducking and diving and stuff. But then I got to thinking, where have they come from? Because there's not any caves around. I don't. They were a bit short on belfries around my way, so, you know, and I don't ever remember. You think you're short of belfries? You think you're short on belfries? Bats, like mice, can. Can get through the tiniest of holes and they'll be just hanging from the eaves. You could have them in your attic without knowing it. Well, you know, I totally think that's possible, but I just. I just wondered if there was, you know, like, because I did a little bit of looking online. They said at this time of year they're in big maternity colonies, like all the mommy bats have around. Wow. So I just thought, like, you know, if there's a whole big load of them, surely you'd notice that in your attic. I don't think you would. My next door neighbors had bats in their attic when I was growing up. I grew up in the countryside, but it caused a bit of an issue because they were protected. I can't remember why, whether they wanted to convert their roof or something like that. But they'd never known they were there. They had a colony of bats living in their loft and they'd never known they were there. I think it's that simple. Unless you're hoping for, like, a portal to another dimension through which bats pass every August. No, no, I'm not thinking anything too supernatural or anything like that. I was just. I don't know, I was just curious because I. But you never see mice. You could have mice in your house and not know about it for months or years. I sometimes see the odd one running about and you see the droppings because they come into the inhabited areas. But the bats. Unless you're up in your attic every night, I bet you've got them in your own. Are you in one of those lovely big tenements in Edinburgh? Yes, I am. I'm in a tenement. But we don't have an attic, so there must be maybe in someone else's attic. Yeah, I'm pretty sure they were. Unless I've. Unless I'm missing something. I think. I think it is that simple. Okay. But I feel you're going away unsatisfied, Susan. I just thought maybe. Quite fun to get, like, a bat enthusiast or something. It would be. It was. If you see a big bunch of bats in a city, where are they most likely to be hanging? Yeah. All right, then. I'll leave it on the board. I haven't got a round of applause yet today. This is. This could be awful, Susan. Thank you very much. Edinburgh festival on the way, actually, speaking of portals to different dimensions, through which all manner of freaks and funsters will be passing into Edinburgh soon. Poppy's in reading. Hello, Poppy. Hey. You ain't gonna get a round of applause from this one, either. Let's wait and see, shall we, champ? All right. Question or answer? Question. Bring it. Bring it on. Apart from an answer I had last time and the professor stole it off me. Yeah, sorry about that. He's like that. Yeah, no, but there you go. So, dyslexia. I've got dyslexia. Okay, so, um, how come I have a problem with English, but when I'm speaking Arabic or writing Arabic? I don't have a problem at all? Is dyslexia just an english thing? How does Arabic move across the page in the same way as English? Forgive my ignorance. Right to left. It's from right to left. I wonder if that might have something. It's not letters. Yeah, I wonder if that might have something to do with it. So you can read Arabic fluidly, fluently? Well, that depends on how fast. Like, I can read Arabic. But you can read Arabic more easily than English? No, not more easily. But I don't. I don't trip up on words or characters or anything like that. You don't get confusion. You don't get your a's and your O's mixed up or your nines and your six L's and B's. Yeah. And there are some words similar. So I could. I could get them mixed up, but I don't. I don't have any problem. What was English? I do regularly. Oh, it might just be you. It might. I mean, you might have actually unearthed a new psychological wriggle in the history of humanity here. It may not be something that anyone else has ever identified or analyzed. You realize that. We'll see. You're learning Arabic. Quite. I know you're young, but you started learning Arabic later in life, not from scratch, it wasn't. Yeah. From about a year ago. It might be something to do with that, but you're right, actually, I'm not going to get a round of applause for this one. Why is poppy dyslexic in English and not apparently in Arabic? 0345. That could be the most interesting question we've had in ages. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need seven sisters? We've done dogs. Can dogs sense fear? Someone must know that, surely. And we may need to double up on the bus driver question, otherwise, I've got room for more. More questions. If you want to get your question on the board, give me a quick call now. Zero. 345-606-0973 Graham's in high Wycombe. Graham, question or answer? I've got an answer, James. Go on. It's to the golf one. Is this a stewards inquiry? Yeah, I think it's a steward inquiry. I have to warn you, I've met John in reading. He is a very big and burly ex military man. All right. But if you want to start. If you want to start tweaking his nose and calling him a liar, that's absolutely fine by me. Graham. This is the thing, you see. Now, this is the thing. So he doesn't live that far away. So I'm going to be careful here. Right? Okay. So back in the day in golf, they would have two types of caddy. One was a caddy caddy that would carry the bag. The other was a caddy that would go ahead to find the golf ball in all the types of bushes and heather and gorse and everything, and they were the four caddies. And when the guys hitting their golf ball would hit it offline, they would shout four to get the attention of the four caddy, to tell him to start looking, because it's gone over towards him. They didn't really care about people getting their head down. They were more concerned about losing their golf ball. And because a lot of the people that were playing golf in the time were of the military background, they quite enjoyed shouting four because it was what they used to shout. So they did. Used to shout at us soldiers. Well, they probably did, because the man in the army's probably right, but it's to do with getting the attention. No, I don't think he is. I think you're trying to cover your backside here a bit, aren't you? I think the man in the army got it horribly roast. John was in the navy anyway, wasn't he? Not the only. It doesn't matter, but he got it horribly wrong. I think it's all about the four caddy. I think you're right. What are your qualifications? I'm a golf professional and you will see four caddies written all over golf courses, in pitchers, and that when you go around the clubhouse, there'll always be a pitcher with a four caddy and things like that really couldn't be simpler. Here comes the ball, fella. Start looking out for it. So it wasn't even saying, get out of the way originally, it was saying, it's coming. Keep your eyes peeled. And that applies probably to firing cannons in the army, but in golf, it's to do with the four caddy. Graham, here is your. Have you got any top advice for the fellow who asked the question? Because he's only just started playing. He's just progressed up from the driving range to the courses. If he could afford a sparkling professional like you, what would you say to him? Rather than show him on your very first lesson to make him a better player than he is now? There are things you can do to use your time better, but if you do want to play lots of golf, go and see your local golf pro and sign yourself up. I thought I said, can you give him any advice? Not Graeme. Give yourself a free advert. I must have misheard myself. It's 1240 612 51. You're listening to mystery hour with me, James O'Brien, on LBC. Fizzy, mate, I'm so glad that you're still listening. And here is, although fizzy from your twitter, this is a slight. You put me in a slightly confusing situation. It would appear that Fizzy 50, who recorded the next mystery, our theme tune is currently transitioning, so good luck. To you and whether or not we need a new version. When the transition is complete, I shall let you decide if you're a doctor or a proctor or Giselle from door to door. Validation of your evidence is what we're waiting for. Of the universe's trivialest questions of the year. Like why it's bad to die in Delos or find cheese behind your ear. Your only obligations to obey O'Brien's law. That's cool. Don't text, so phone up quick and don't be fit for a mystery. Our applause ah, happy days. 1252 is the time. Steve's in Bishops Gate. Question or answer, Steve? It's an answer. Carry on, mate. Dogs can't smell fear. How do you know? Because there are no scientific tests at the moment to prove unquestionably that Dawson smell fear. Obviously. That means. That means you can't answer it. I can answer it as to this day that dogs cannot smell fear. No, but you can't. You can't. You can say you can't prove that dogs can smell fear, but they might well be able to smell fear. We just haven't proved it yet in ten years time. Definitely. What are your qualifications? I'm a dog behaviorist. I've worked with dogs with behavior problems for many years and I run pinnacle dog training services. Do you think, oh, I don't know, cheeky free advert might just get you chucked out now, really? No, that's all right. That's fine. The, um. Do you think the dog can actually sense human fear? No. A lot of people think they can. The reason. What do you think? What do you think, Steve? I'll tell you, okay. With the work I do, I don't believe they can. So a terrified human being will have no impact whatsoever upon a dog's likelihood to attack or to not attack or behave in a certain way. The only way they will know is if a human shows fear, he will not come towards the dog. So if you know who is fearful with the dog, the dog will sense the body language. Body language of the human. I've got some good news and some bad news. Oh, you like good news? Go on. Well, you're gonna have to get the bad news as well. Good news is producers very impressed with you. Okay. Bad news is Professor Hal's on the line with a challenge. Okay. Professor Hal. Hello, James. Hello, mate. Can dogs smell fear? Yes. You might need a bit more than that, Hal. Yeah, you were quite right. It's all to do with pheromones and the evolutionary basis for exuding a smell of fear, aka naked gun 33. And a third is there is a benefit in being able to communicate to others unease or danger without actually making a noise about it. So if you're in a group and you've spotted a predator, there's some benefit in it. And don't forget we've got pheromones which express sexual arousal and dogs can actually detect. Speak for yourself. Oh, it's been so long, mate. Dogs can actually detect things like diabetes. I've got a colleague who's a diabetic who's got a dog for that very purpose. They can detect cancer by someone's breath and it's not a great stretch to say then they can. I mean, I've been in situations where someone's been terrified and they do smell different. There was an article, I think, in end of last decade concerning. There are some studies which say humans can detect the smell of fear. And I'm sure you must have been in situations where someone had a big fright. They smell different. Yeah, Steve, I'm leaning to the professor. I can understand why you're leaning to the professor, but if he can tell me any scientific experiments that prove that dogs can smell fear, I would agree with him as well. Do you have to. Do you have to provide a piston, not a pistol? What's it called? How evidence? Impaired. Impaired what? In peer reviewed evidence. The other word. Empirical. Empirical evidence. I'm not allowed to look stuff up, though. But you reckon you could. I know I could know as he could. Fighting talk there, Steve. Well, I agree with the diabetic, I agree with the cancer. That's well known. I would. What he said about dogs, are we of other predators? Yes, you can. You can understand that. But the question was, can dogs smell fear in humans? And I believe that the dog will react to the body language rather than the smell. Based on what? Empirical evidence. Sorry, say again? Based on what? Empirical evidence. Thanks. Lob the ball back at you. No, you're not looking the ball back at me. Basically, everything I've actually learned is by body language. If someone comes to French and they've got like, a large frame and they're coming towards a dog, a dog will cower back, not because he smells aggression in that man, but because of the body language towards a dog. And it's the same with fear. If someone's scared of a dog, they will go to stroke it, they will put his hand above the dog's head and you know that the person is very, very nervous or scared of the dog. The dog will react to that. He reacts to the body language, not the smell. Absence of proof isn't proof of absence. We can duke it out on Twitter. Well, thanks for keeping it friendly, fellas. I'm going to give you both a round of applause simply because I don't want things to get awkward. Have we got any more theme tunes? It's 1257. You're listening to James O'Brien on mystery hour. As mystery hour once again goes up a rather unexpected avenue, we've run out. Just the bats. If we could have found out a little bit more about the bats. Jake's in Peckham. Question or answer, Jake? It's an answer, James. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. It's about the buses. The buses, yes. Go on, then. The bus drivers. Oh, yeah. They don't have to wear a seatbelt because they are traveling less than 500 meters per stop, so they don't have to wear one. Qualifications? I used to be a bus driver. Quite a handy man. They go more than 5500 meters between. Give Jake a round of applause and I can squeeze in Mel. You pardon the expression, Mel. Question or answer? Yeah, go on. It's a dyslexia thing. There's a lot of. Why does poppy have. Have problems with English, but apparently no problems despite her dyslexia with Arabic? Because it isn't dyslexia, it's dyslexia. There's lots of different kinds of dyslexias and they're caused by different things. You can have lesions on the brain, you can have problems in different parts of the brain. So with a pictorial language that's different from our language, for example, so, you know, perhaps somebody who had, for example, problems with reading English wouldn't have problems with reading Chinese. Yeah, I mean, that must be right, mustn't it? It must be right. It's to do with brain chemistry and wiring and I mean neural pathways. What are your qualifications? Qualifications is lots of dyslexia in the family. Different types? Well, no, I don't think so. I think we've got a pretty, pretty bog standard type. But you've looked up, you've looked into it and the arabic articles and things character based instead of letter based would explain why the brain struggles with one of them and not with the other. Yeah, well, it's handy, this. Thank you for mystery once again, delivers. We'll do it again next week, but I'll be here tomorrow from ten. I do hope you can join me. This is LBC. I'm James O'Brien. Here's Sheila Fogarty. Thank you very much.