How tall does a building have to be considered a skyscraper?

Three minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Sometimes I get taken by surprise by mystery Hour. It's a lovely surprise as well, I have to tell you, because this is pretty much the most fun we have together in the week. It is your regular opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio. What happens is people ring in with questions. It's a bit more exciting than I make it sound. The best thing to do is to sort of suck it and see. But if you're new to it, it's. It's a bit like the newspaper features, the magazine features, where someone writes in with a question and a few weeks later someone writes in with an answer. Except it's not just about the answer, it's about the fun we have on the journey. You know, sometimes the journey is more important than the destination, isn't it? It's like a road trip. Think of mystery hour like a road trip. We're all in the car together, bantering, and the destination is knowledge for which you may or may not be grateful at some subsequent point in the future. To get into the car, you need to dial zero three. No, you don't. To get into the car, you just need to have your radio on to help me drive, you need to dial zero 345-606-0973 is this even more torturous than the plumbing analogy? In the first hour of the program today, we've now turned mystery hour into a road trip with multiple drivers, countless hands on the steering wheel. If you want to grab my steering wheel, you need to dial zero 345-606-0973 and then ask your question. Someone else listening to it will almost certainly know the answer and they will ring in and provide it. The rest of us, meanwhile, will enjoy the banter and equally enjoy the enlightenment that comes at the end. So who, why, what, where, when? Whither, whence, wherefore? Try not to be boring. If it's a question that you can't really realistically imagine anyone else being interested in the answer to, then it might be a service to us all not to actually ask it. And then you. I think that's it, isn't it? I'll ask what your qualifications are. You're not allowed to look stuff up, all right? Either online or in books. Down with books. It's all about the knowledge that you have accrued over the years and goodness knows how you've got it. So when I say qualifications, you don't have to say I have a PhD in applied mathematics from the University of Oxford. You might say, I saw it on the tilly last night, James, and both are equally valid. It's only a point of plausibility, not a point of sort of qualification. I think that should cover it. 0345. Sorry, I'll only say the number when I've got phone lines free, which is true in every hour on every day of the show. If you hear me say the phone number, it means I've got phone lines free. It's why many days you'll only hear me say it in the opening minutes of each hour or the opening quarter of each hour. But on Mystery House, a bit different, because a lot of people who ring in and get through will be politely invited to ring off again because their questions are a bit rubbish. Try and take that on the chin, will you? And don't shoot the messenger. Damien's in Windermere. Damien, you can kick us off this week. Question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Please carry on. Basically, I watched the film last week and when I was reading up about it, I noticed that the CGI cost 150 million pounds. Was it avatar? No, it wasn't. It was part of the current being. Oh, yeah, yeah. Basically, I was just thinking, why does it cost so much if it's all computer generated? And if I'm being rude, is it not just a bunch of geeks on computers? Well, that is a bit unnecessary. Ivan. Ivan, the studio engineer, who I think could be realistically described as a geek on a computer. He's shaking his head as if you've just asked the stupidest question ever. Is it not stupid, really, but between. Between you and me, I'm on your side, mate. I don't get it. Either you come and you think to yourself, CGI. We could do that at home with an apple Mac. Well, yeah. 150 million quid for the pirates of the Caribbean. CGI. If it's all done on computers, why do you need. Maybe you need really expensive computers, Damien. Have you thought of that? Well, yeah. You go make a part. You go make a pirate film on your Commodore 64 and get back to me tomorrow. So that'll be it, probably. The hardware is really expensive. Come on. I mean, 150 million. Well, yeah. Let's not get hung up on the 150 million. This isn't a bus. During the Brexit campaign. Let's. Let's sort of. You might need to buy a specific kit. You need people. Well, maybe it's because I'm a child of the eighties. And I was used to like spectrums and amigas. You and me both. You and me. But no, I like the question. I think we've probably knocked at the door of the answer, but I want more detail. I want to know what I get for 150 million quid. Yeah, of course it is. I'll put it on. What was your favorite spectrum game? Spectrum game? Dizzy magic land. Dizzy. Was it? Never played. I never played that. I'd have gone for Chucky egg for a platform game or Eureka by Domark, which is a little known adventure game that I think changed. Changed everything, including one summer holiday in my life when I did nothing else. Damien, thank you, mate. And that was why I didn't do very well in my exams. Too much information. Judith is in Sunderland. Judith, question or answer? Hi, can I please ask a question? Of course you can. How polite. You don't have to be that polite. This is the James O'Brien program. You can be as rude as you want. So I would like to know. I got a puppy yesterday, me and my fiance. Oh, she's beautiful. She's absolutely amazing. What flavour is she? She is a miniature dash hound. Oh, so she fits in your pocket? What have you called her? Poppy. Poppy the puppy. She's beautiful. And I would just like to know. Yes. I'm sitting watching her, like, sleep. Yes. And she squeaks. She. I'm sure she's suckling in her dreams and I'm thinking, does she dream? Do puppies and dogs dream? Well, I mean, it would be hard to know for sure, wouldn't it? Because it would involve a dog being able to tell you. But they have. I think they've stuck electrodes to dogs heads while they're sleeping and they have concluded that they do dream. I think we've answered this one before, but it's such a lovely question and poppy is so newly arrived in your home that I think we can revisit it. The answer is yes. But if you wanted me to prove it, I would struggle. Oh. I mean, I'm just happy that because you'll get. You'll get all sorts. You'll get leg twitches growls yeah. You know, they're doing in their dreams the same as we are. They might be chasing a rabbit. My little one, who has a very similar name to yours, actually, but I'm going to observe the Nick Ferrari school of never naming your dog on air. My little one sometimes looks like she's running and she's lying when she's lying sideways and all four legs are going sometimes. So we've got to just say yes. I literally could just sit and watch her. I'm getting nothing done in my house. Well, you got me on the radio, so you're learning by osmosis. You're right. Quite right. Oh, thank you very much for letting us on. It's lovely. I'm going to give. Should we share the round of applause? Because we both sort of slightly smitten with our dogs. If you told me I was going to end up being a dog lover five years ago, Judith, I would have laughed in your face. Have you always wanted a dog? Always. Always. We just bought a new house and I thought, you know what? It's time. Life is good, eh? New house, new dog and now half of this. What a day. Oh, thank you very much. No, thank you very much. That was absolutely lovely. I tested Ivan then to see whether the old button was working and he blew it. No warning, though. That's not really fair. That was. That was. That was really like a sort of throwing a hand grenade into the studio. Judith. Thank you. So, one down, one to go. CGI. Why does it cost so much? We want to know how come we can't do it on our ZX spectrums. Matthew's in Stockport. Matthew, question or answer? It's question, please, James. Carry on, Matthew. I was wondering, is there a specific height or amount of floors that a building has to have to be considered a skyscraper? Oh, I like that. That's nice, isn't it? A skyscraper as opposed to just a tower block or just a building is. It was probably a sort of early incarnation of someone like Donald Trump, who coined the phrase to sell apartments in a building that was just the same size as other buildings. But if he called it a skyscraper, it becomes like a marketing exercise, doesn't it? I wouldn't put it bastion, to be honest. I think it was him. He doesn't have the imagination, but it was someone like him. I'll put that on the list. Whereabouts in Stockport are you? I'm not. I've just recently moved to Media City. Hence the question. So you're in Salford Keys? Yeah. There's a lot of new builds. They're not that high. Have you been to the Imperial War museum yet? I have, yeah. What's it like? Yeah, what's it like? It's really good. They've got really a good piece on now, about the. Obviously the first World War one. There's a fantastic pocket thing outside. Is that beautiful? You should get the chance to go. It's on. It's on my list. It really is. And I keep been to the London one several times, but the Manchester one, the Salford keys one people keep recommending to me. Right, you're on. I'll find out for you. How tall does a building have to be to be a skyscraper? It's twelve minutes after the number you need to answer that question or to ask one of your own, is zero. 345-606-0973 Rick's in Basingstoke. Rick, question or answer? Question, please. Yes. I often find that children ask the best mystery out questions, and my eight year old is no different and we usually manage to work them out together. But he asked me this one yesterday and I didn't manage to remember it. He got a new watch and he asked me, what's the difference between water resistant and waterproof? I don't know if there is. No, there is. I mean, I'm thinking out loud, waterproof means you could essentially swim in it if it was tight enough. It was anything to do with the total immersion and being under pressure. Waterproof will admit no water. Water resistant will admit a lot less water than other stuff, don't you think? Or not. You're not going to take that, are you? No, I wouldn't, I wouldn't. Oh, that's quite an interesting echo I've got going on there. Asmr. Oh, it didn't work. Rick. I will find out for you. Thank you very much. 1213 is the time. Katie is in Islington. Katie, question or answer? Question. Carry on. So when you're in central London and you go to pedestrian crossing and you press the button and you wait for the green man, some traffic lights will have a grill over the green man. When it lights, you can't actually see the green man unless you wiggle around and try to catch a glimpse of green. Are you sure on the men, on the figures, rather than just the traffic lights? For traffic? Yeah, exactly. Okay. Look out for it. Well, I will. And you want to know what the grills are for? I want to know why. Because all they seem to do is block your view and make it difficult to see the green man. And sometimes you even have to sort of guess on the basis that the red man does not live. So I just wondered why are you sure that you're generally encountering this phenomenon after you've perhaps had a few libations? I'm encountering it all the time. I live near old street and all the pedestrians, all the crossings around there have it. So what are they for? Because they can't serve any obvious purpose. Can they? I mean, to stop them getting broken? Would that make sense? To stop them getting dirty? But then the grill gets dirty, so it blocks it even more? Yeah. Yeah. No. Okay. I mean, it's close. I was close to mocking you for a really boring question. I could think of who might know the answer to people. No, fair enough. It's not me. It's not me that will know the answer. Hopefully somebody listening will. So why does CGI cost so much, given that it is just geeks with computers? How high does a building have to be to be a skyscraper? What's the difference between water resistant and waterproof? And why do the traffic lights for pedestrians have grills over them? That's quite a nice little selection, actually. And it's only 1250. This is LBC. It is 1219. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. We have questions in need of answers. One of which, on reflection, I should have really been able to work out for myself. One of which I think I did get right, but I don't really have the qualifications to prove it and one of which may not have an answer at all. Shall I tell you what they are, rather than teasing you like this? Yes. Okay. Why does CGI, computer generated imagery, is it computer generated images could cost so much given that all you need is a computer and a room full of geeks. How tall does a building have to be to qualify as a skyscraper? Or a cloud scraper, as they call them in Germany? What's the difference in water resistant and waterproof? That's the one which I think I've got right. But I need someone with better qualifications to go definitive. Why do the pedestrian bits of traffic lights sometimes have grilles over them? And that's the one I should have been able to work out for myself, but I didn't. So you can have a go. Simon is in Dudley. Simon, question or answer? It's an answer to your CGI question. Excellent. Carry on. Yeah, yeah. So, yeah, I mean, computer graphics, you know, whether we're talking about whether it's feature films or for computer games, it's highly specialized. You know, if you look at the credits for the average animated film or even a computer game, they run just as long as any big blockbuster film production. You have set designers, you have specialists in animation of all kind of different things. So this. This all adds up, you know, and the actual involvement, natural time it takes to make, you know, really good computer animation is a very similar, on a very similar level in timescale to a feature film, perhaps even longer. So. So the idea that it should somehow be cheaper is it's. It's a bit of a. Yeah, it's a bit of a fallacy, really. I mean, you can, you know, you can. You can get apps for your computer which allow you to create good animation and you might be able to make a short one, you know, a nice five minute animation of a basic level that perhaps looks pretty good when you scale up. There's something that you can go to the cinema to watch or that you can play on your, I don't know, PlayStation console or Xbox or whatever, or in Pirates of the Caribbean, you've got an entire fleet of ghostly pirate ships coming over the horizon, and every single one of them is painstakingly realized and beautifully depicted. And the idea that Chummo who rang in could have knocked that up on his ZX spectrum is a little bit silly, now that we think about it. It is so specialized. There are specialists in clothing animation. So this is the level that it goes to. Yeah. So then you've got, I mean, then you've got lots of staff, lots of hardware, software, and then you've got the engineers to look after the hardware, and engineers look after the software programmers who are using it, coders who are writing it, and then you've got. Then they're going to be in a building where you've got to pay rent and they're going to need cleaners. And so the answer then becomes actually quite obvious. But in short, the answer is, it's really, really tough. It's difficult to do. Qualifications? Okay, what are your qualifications? Well, I'm involved in video production, but I'm also a technology journalist as well. Oh, wicked cool. Well, that'll do. Round of applause for Simon. Great work. Great work. 22 minutes after that. Twelve is the time someone sent me a picture of that game that I mentioned. Eureka. That is lovely. God, that really. That's almost proustian. That's like Proust's Madeleine's. That is. For me, that. That was a significant period of my life where I did little else but play that game. I had a 25,000 pound prize and I got strangely close to winning it. I was about. I was about eight weeks behind the bloke that did win it. So, I mean, I wasn't that close, but I spoke to the people that worked at the software company and told them how far I'd got and they said, yeah, you are on the right road. The trick was, if any. No, no one's going to be remotely interested in this, are they? But the point was that the game, it was a video game where you entered what you wanted to do. You know, like get cape, where cape. Fly, that type of thing. But it came with a little booklet of poems and pictures and to solve the riddles that would have yielded the phone number that you rang to report the word that had popped out of the bottom of your calculations. The mistake I made was thinking that I'd get it all from the video game and that the little booklet was just a kind of side. In fact, the booklet was more important than the game. The game just gave you a key at the end of each stage of five chapters set in different periods of british history. Nobody's interested in this, are they? Not even a little bit. Yeah. Clue sessions. Where are we going first? Bradford or swans? Go to Swanscomb. Deborah's there. Deborah, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on, Deborah. When you go through security at an airport, they make you take off your belt. Loose change, sort of everything metallic. Because you've got to go through the scanners. Yeah. So why is it when I go through the scanners, let's just say I'm a large lady and I have an infrastructure in my bra. Oh, yeah. Ladies would know this. It's basically. They're called underwire bra. Yeah. Men know that as well, Debra. Honestly. Well, mine is an infrastructure. So why. Why do you not go deep when you go through? Because it is actually quite a. You know, it's like. Because I saw your question on the board, and I called the stewards inquiry when I saw that it had been knocked off. Yes. And I was assured by my assistant producer that you do beep when you go through the gate. And I said, well, there's no way that she's beeping and not noticing, is there? No, I've never beeped when I've gone through. And I get assistance at the airport, and I go through in a wheelchair as well. So why does an underwire bra not activate the metal detectors at the airport when they tell you to take everything else off? A lot. Please don't think I'm asking for them to take it off. But, you know, why doesn't it? Because. Are you sure? Maybe it does. Maybe it does go off, but they know what it is, so they don't ask you to take it off. How do they know what it is? Because of the tone of the beep. Because obviously, all your other stuff goes through, so they can physically see it, can't they? Like an x ray, whereas they can't with your bar. Maybe they can see it. Maybe they can see the. Not through the actual metal detector. That's all for sound only. Whereas the other thing where they make you take everything else off is for scanning reasons. That's why they make you take your shoes off. Yeah, because they can see in the shoes. Because my son, who's listening to this in eating. Hi, Chris. Oh, he's not embarrassed by you at all, mom. My mom has just rang LBc to talk about her enormous bra. No, no, because he was the one that said to me. Because I said to him, why do you take your shoes off? Yeah. And he said, because obviously you can hide things in heels of shoes. Yes, but why don't. Okay. No, I mean, this is, you know, the underwire bra and the airport metal detector. Someone will know the answer. It may not be the answer you want. You may have missed something, but we should get something by closer place. Shall I say hi to Chris as well? Hi, Chris, mate. Do what your mother tells you, Chris. All right. Seriously. And tidy your room. It's 26 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien. Aren't at LVC. That's nice. That's like my mum listening and kidding me. Chris listening and ealing and mum listening in Swanscomb. Carl's in Bradford. Carl. Question or answer? It's an answer, mate. Carry on, mate. I'm actually from York. I'm just working in Bradford. Okay. It's the traffic signal answer. Yeah, about the Louvers on the green man louvrers. Get you, eh? We were just saying. Grills the louvers and to stop read through. So you only get them on multiple crossings. So if you're at one side of a crossing and you can see another crossing, which is on a different phase, you won't get the read through so that a driver might get a glimpse of green and think it's meant for him. And then. And then go. So you put the grills there so that you can. You have to be quite near and specific to that light in order to see it. Yeah, yeah. You never get them on reds. No. That's strong. Strong play. Qualifications? A traffic signal engineer. Whoa. Yeah. How many. How many traffic signal engineers are there in the country, do you think, roughly? There's a few, what, hundreds? Thousands? A couple of hundred. And your job is literally to sort out traffic signals? Yeah. Make sure they're working. Make sure they're running. Yeah. You get one of these. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien. On LBC, if you build it, they will come. And of course, you also get one of these. Thank you so much. That's right. So, the good people of Bradford today will be moving more easily through the. Through the streets and avenues of Bradford as a result of your hard work and toil. Not really, because they're all run by UTC and then they're all computerized 27 minutes after twelve. The Ray Liotta, for people who are not familiar with that little award, is for people whose qualifications to contribute to the program. It doesn't only happen on mystery hour, are exceptional. It's arbitrary, because it's in my gift. But that was a nice one. I enjoyed that one a lot. Sam's in Limehouse. Sam. Question or answer? Hi, James. I think I've got an answer to the watch question. The what? The what? What question? Oh, he wasn't talking about watches. He was. No, he was talking about everything. Clothes and everything. Waterproof and water resistant. But your answer. Did he say watches? The girl. Hashtag me too. You checked with my colleague, not the girl. Honestly. It's 2018, dude. Come on, bro. Woman with an x. Woman with an x. That's all right. Yeah. Go on, go on, go on. So, with watches, as far as I know, waterproof means hundred percent, sort of guaranteed, no water. So I think technically, watches aren't. Aren't waterproof. There various levels of water resistance, which is done by the depth thing that they can go. You're not, mate. You're wasting. You're wasting both our time on this. Oh, no, that's all right. It's not your fault. It's the woman's fault for putting you through. Because it was about. It was asked by a child. And it must be about the clothes. The difference between water resistant clothes and waterproof clothes. I don't know. Maybe that's what I'm gonna. I think you maybe did get the answer no. Well, I think I've already answered it, but I don't have the qualifications. What are your qualifications? To answer the question that no one's asked. Maybe. Why? It went into my brain. So I just started working in a little watch shop. I used to. The watches aren't particularly expensive, and I know they're not good for scuba diving, but they say 50 meters on them. And I used to think 50 meters meant you can scuba diving them all day long, but it doesn't. 50 meters means, like, you're on, but that's as much. That's more to do with pressure. That's more to do with pressure than it is. No, I mean, I've enjoyed talking to you, Sam, but you're not. You're not getting anything out of this exchange, mate. Good luck in the new job. Mind you, it's coming up to Russell Caine was. I'll tell you that story another time. It's coming up to 01:00. Thomas Watts is here now with the headlines. It's 1235. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC where we continue with mystery. Before that, do you think I would be able to knit together the first 2 hours of today's program with a single quote from blackout? Yeah, you're damn right I can. Okay, so the second hour of the conversation was about why we should teach the bad bits of history to british children. The first hour of the conversation today was about the mess that british politics has become largely as a result of people voting without having any understanding or knowledge of facts. And here is General Melchit talking about the First World War in Blackadder goes forth, if nothing else works, a total pigheaded unwillingness to look facts in the face will see us through. And that, in a nutshell, is where we currently are regarding Brexit. So studying history helps you understand modernity and increases the likelihood of you avoiding repeating the same mistakes. Didn't really work out that well for us. Let's get back to mystery hour. It's a lot more palatable. Nathan's in fleet. Nathan, question or answer? Hi there, James. A question, please. Carry on, Nathan. I'm doing a charity boxing match on Saturday. I was just wondering, and why is a boxing ring called a ring if it's a square? Yeah, I know this. I never know whether people like it when I answer questions or whether they prefer it to go on the board and get a bit of movement, a bit of traction going. But you don't have any say in the matter because I'm an inveterate show off and if I know the answer, I'm always going to claim my round of applause. It used to be a ring. So if you went back to when boxing was first formalised in about the 18th century or possibly a little bit earlier, it would. They draw a ring on the ground into which the fighters would go. But more, I think, easier to understand is the fact that the ring would be made of people. So if the people are the boundaries of the fighting, it would be almost impossible for them to stand in a square. But of course, when they started doing it on a raised platform so they could sell tickets, then it would have been almost impossible to do it in a ring because you'd have bars every couple of stages rather than corners, and people would be banging into whatever stanchion you were using to support the ropes. So it simply morphed from a ring to a square, known, of course, as squaring the circle. Got it? Yeah, squaring the circle. And that is why it is still called the boxing ring, which is also why. And that would have happened in about, I think, the first half of the 19th century, when boxing became increasingly popular. And that is where the phrase ringside seat entered into popular parlance as well. Nathan. Cool, thanks for that. Cheers. You're very welcome. Round of applause for me. Oh, hang on. Come back, come back, come back, come back. Where are you fighting? Where are you fighting? Fighting in Portsmouth. Who are you fighting against? I'm fighting a guy called Ben Standon and it's for a charity, football for cancer football. Where can people find out more if people want to make a donation or something like that? Because I don't normally do this on the program, but if you're going to get punched in the head, I think it's the least I can do. Can I tweet a link to yourself, James? Of course you can. And then I'll retweet it. I'll retweet it later. Nice one. Good luck, Nathan. Keep your head down and you guard up. It's 1238 Imran's in Sutton. Imran, question or answer? Anime. It's a. It's actually answer. Bring it. Let's go. I'm here. Go. Lovely. Okay. Right, so what are you doing in Ron, the extra machines and stuff? Have I got your undivided attempt? Have I got your undivided attention now? No. No. You have. You certainly have. So I just have to run upstairs, but go on. Yeah. So basically to do with the bra lady and all that sort of stuff. So the answer is that all machines have different settings. Yes. So you can work up the settings and it will pick up absolutely everything, like sort of piercings and all that sort of stuff? Yes. Or you can whack it down and it will pass through smaller, smaller objects. So depending where you are, then what your needs are, you can have different settings. So airports, government buildings, that sort of stuff will have different settings, basically. So, yeah, that's your answer. So sometimes, would a bra set off an alarm? It's just that Deborah's never encountered it herself. It would do. It would do. As I said, it depends on the settings of the machine. So it depends what, you know, the location is and what sort of, you know, level they want to set it at. Depends how tight they want the security. Basically. That's essentially what it is. Qualifications. There you go. I worked for Metronome police and part of my job before was using extra equipment to search people. That sort of stuff. Not anymore, but, yeah, I used to do that. It's pretty convincing. Round of applause for Imran. Thank you. Good work. James is in Slough. James, question or answer? Hello. Question, please, James. Hang on, I just need to run through what questions we're still looking for answers to because I'll just glance at the clock. Don't go away, James. I'll be right with you. How high does a building have to be to be a skyscraper? What's the difference between water resistant and waterproof? That's it. Actually, we're doing pretty well. Sorry. I don't know why I got bugged. I don't know why I panicked. James, what is your question? My question is, how high does an airplane or a spacecraft have to go off the earth's surface before it can't use a compass anymore for navigation? I know this. Twice as high as a skyscraper. And how high is that? Ah, you found the floor in my rhetoric. How high? Why would a compass stop working? Because the poles are no longer going to the moon and you could turn north. It turned back to North Pole and knife, wouldn't it? I'm not very good at these sort of questions because the kind of spatial imagination that you need to have to picture what you're currently picturing, I can't really picture. So I honestly got a friend who's a professor. He's in Russia. Though at the moment. I don't know if he'll be listening. He's on a mission. I will. I'll put it on the board. And I kind of understand it, but the more I think about it, the less I understand it. Okay. Well, hopefully someone else understands as well. Exactly that. So how high do you have to go before your compass would stop working? That's right. Yeah. Yeah. All right. You're on mind. There you go. James. Nice question. Is that. Is that the three? Then we got skyscrapers, waterproof compasses. Anything else? Anything else? Anyone? Skyscrapers, waterproof, water resistant and compass. When would you come to stop working? Is there anything else on the list? Do dogs dream? I did that. I answered that one myself. I think we're all right. Marks in Ipswich Mark. Question or answer? Oh, it's a question, James. Carry on. I was getting all excited when you did that, Melchit. I'm obviously going to be on next. James, being the professional he is, he's going to link. He's going to link what? The historical thing of General Melchit. And you can see what your mistake was there, can't you, Mark? James being the professional he is, mate. That's where it all started falling to pieces. I will, however, conclude from that observation that your question is of a military flavor. It is indeed, british Tommies. Yes. As you know, is the name for soldiers for a long, long time, yes. I want to know, where did this come from? Tommy Atkins. Why are they called Tommy? Tommy Atkinson. Who's Tommy? Actually, I don't think he existed. It's a generic name for First World War. I thought it was a Kipling poem. This is when you asked me what my qualifications are. I thought it had something to do with Roger Kipling, so I looked it up and it doesn't. It is just a generic term for a soldier. Tommy Atkins is like Joe Bloggs, except soldiers. Ah, Atkinson. The most common name, though. Is it? No. Maybe it was then. I don't know. I don't know, actually. Why would. There is a Kipling poem called Tommy. I've got my kiplings mixed up on this. Maybe it did begin with Kipling, but I don't know. But the answer is it's a generic term for a british soldier and Atkins is the surname that he would have had. If it is an origins question, someone else is going to ring in and talk about Rudyard Kipling. But I'm pretty sure when I looked it up, it was not. There's a poem about a Tommy. There's a Rudyard Kipling poem about Tommy, but I don't think it was. Why am I burbling like this live on the radio, especially within minutes of you describing me as a professional. As a professional, yeah. Unbelievable. So if that's the complete answer, I'll take a round of applause later. If there is another explanation as to where Tommy Atkins came from, then I'll give the round of applause to that person. But it is an answer why a british soldier is known as Tommy. Because Tommy Atkins is a generic term for a british soldier dating back to the first World War. Right, okay, well, I'll sit by the radio and listen. That's always a good idea, Mark. Always a good idea. 1243 is the time. Liam is in Worcester Park. Liam, question or answer? Hello there, James. It's a question. Carry on. Right. Why is it on advertisements for watches? The time is always ten to two on every other I see for watch. It's always ten to two on the face. Why? Think about it. Have you noticed that? Think about it. A smiley face? Yeah. It's as simple as that. Yeah. Are you sure? Yeah. What's your qualifications? We've done it about 700 times on mystery, but I'm working with newish colleagues, so I'm not going to kick off about. I mean, it looks symmetrical as well. The human brain likes, like, symmetry and there's no danger of the branding or the, you know, other bits and bobs on the watch face or the clock face of being obscured by their hands. But it is just pleasing to the human eye to see it at 10:10. Or ten to two. Fair enough. I'll give you a round of applause. Thank you very much, Liam. That's the first. I think that was sad. That's lovely that way, after all these years, I can't do it again. Happy days. Happy days. Well, thank you, Liam. Good man. It's quarter to 112. 49 is the time. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. How high does a building have to be to qualify as a skyscraper? What's the difference between waterproof and water resistant? And how high into the sky would you need to go before your compass stopped working? I like those questions. Why are british soldiers known as tommies? I'm correct about Tommy Atkins and as far as I can tell from text and tweets coming in, there is no consensus on where it began. Although I may have misspoke when I said it seems to have originated in the first world war, I've got one claim, that it goes back as far as the american war of independence. I think that's it. So we could probably squeeze in one or two more questions. Let's get some answers on the board first. Stewart's in chess and Stuart. Question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Carry on, Stu. You sounded like you had something a little bit inappropriate for me, the way you said that. I got an answer for you, James. Did you tap your nose and hold open the flap of your overcoat as you said? I've got something for you there. An answer for you, James, my friend. I'm not so creative, I'm afraid. Oh, God. What is it? Basically, it's sort of waterproofing. Waterproof or water resistant? Yeah. For product to be waterproof. Sorry. It needs to withstand 1.5 meters of water pressure directly to the actual fabric. That's a hose. When you pressure basically the way it was explained to me, was it because I used to work in an outdoor shop and I had the guiding to train us personal qualifications on what. What was a different was if you use, like, a tube and you placed it against the fabric and then filled it up with water to 1.5 meters or above. Wow. Called a hydrostatic head, I believe. That's right. Yes, it is. I did that in school. Yeah. Wow. Yeah, exactly. And then what you've also got to do to make a garment waterproof, that was a legal definition, was to tape the seams of the garment. So any stitching or embroidery, it had to be taped on inside. Yeah, we've seen that. Yeah. So that's a difference. And what would water resistant mean? Just some. Something, because something that's not wool, basically. It was when we were selling cheap jackets, they would waterproof the fabric, you know, make it really waterproof on the inside, but they wouldn't take the seams because it was quite labor intensive and it cost a lot more money. So one of the things what we used to do the same with tents as well, we'd give a seam sealant or like a silicon seam sealant, put it over the seams and you could kind of waterproof up a jacket yourself for less money. So there's probably no legal definition of water resistance resistant, then? Not as far as I know, but. But you would need to observe the rules you've just described to describe it as waterproof. Yeah. The same for tents and anything else. What you wanted to. And this is because you were working in an outdoor shop? Yeah, I used to be the manager of an outdoor shop, and he used to get the guys in to train us on what the. What the product actually done, because it's quite high end product, so we had to know how to sell it. I've done the mosquito question as well about a year ago. What was that for? The same reason. Know why they bite some people more than they buy other people. And it's all to do with pheromones. Pheromones, yeah. So this is your double? I'm afraid it is, yeah. Thank you very much. Nicely done. 1252 is the time Lee is in Durham. Lee, question or answer? Hi, David. Great show. Air answer on the compass. How high do I have to go before it stops working? The point at which you leave the earth's atmosphere and into the stratosphere, because there is no gravitational pull to give you the two poles. When's that, then? The point at which you leave the earth's. How high. Is that how high is the earth's atmosphere? It varies depending on whereabouts on the earth you are. But you enter the. Sorry, say again? Ballpark. It's about 5 miles. So it's not that. So basically you would. It would start working 5 miles up. Yeah, but the definition is when you leave the earth's atmosphere and you've got no gravitational pull. Perfect qualifications. I'm learning to be a pilot and I asked my instructor. Really? Commercial or just for fun? Just for fun. Just as a hobby. Fantastic. I had a dream about parachute jumping last night. Yeah. I'll give you a tweet when I'm ready. Let me know. There's a little tribute to Brexit. Little tribute to Brexit. Lee, I might do it without a parachute. It's 1253. You are listening to mister. That's a lovely one. Did he get his round of applause? No, no, no. Getting back, bringing back, not having it. That's not fair. That's me trying too hard to do a Brexit joke. And I've denied the fellow his round of applause. We're not having that. We got his number. Still. Can we get him back, please? Because I hate to leave business unfinished like that, but especially if I'm going to get in his plane one day. Last thing I need is for him to have a grudge. Peter is in thirst. Hello, Peter. Question or answer? This time last year, James, yes. You answered a question about conkers. Because I asked, why don't squirrels eat conkers? Yes. And you explained it's because they're poisonous. Yes. And in fact, you rewarded yourself with a round of applause, no less. Yes, okay. Yes. Can you please explain why two juvenile squirrels are burying conkers in my lawn and my flower bed? Yes. Because they don't know they're poisonous yet. So, no, they will dig up a conquer. They will have a little nibble and they will realize that it is disgusting and they will never bury a squirrel again. So the most crucial word in your question was, in fact, juvenile. You wouldn't catch an old squirrel. You wouldn't catch an old squirrel doing that, Peter. No. Once their mums taught them properly, bring. No. They're nuts. You have a good day, sir. Thank you. Round of applause for me. And speaking of apples, Lee, I am so sorry, mate. Sorry, James. I know you're in a tight ship and you're against the clock and. No, no, no. Not good enough. Sheila's in the wings kicking you out the seat, so I appreciate that. This is for you, Lee. Thank you. Good man. And good luck with the. With the flying. Good luck. I don't know who you gonna wish more luck to? The fellow who's learning to fly or the fellow who's having a charity boxing match on Saturday. Deborah is in Ascot. Deborah, question or answer? Oh, hello. Yes, James, I've got a question for you. Actually, it's my son's question. Excellent. And he's 21 and he's listening at work. He's 21? Yes, he is. He's normally about eight. When someone rings in and says, it's a question for my son. I know, but he can't make a call from work. What a lovely mum you are. Carry on. I know who I am. He keeps telling me. The question is, who decides whose face or what is put on the face of a coin in circulation, as in the words and the decorations and the little slogans and what have you, as in the pictures? Yes, that kind of thing. I think the royal mint does, but in conjunction with the monarch, probably, but I don't know. What time is it? 1255. So hopefully I'll stop waffling and I'll get the question up and hopefully. What's your son's name? Rory. Hopefully we can get an answer for Rory before 01:00. If not, then give me a nudge and we'll try and put it back on the list next week. I always forget to do that if people don't give me an answer. Deborah, thank you very much. 1255 is the time. Who decides what goes on coins. Quickly, quickly. Ring in quickly for Rory. It's Ferrari. Tell us a story. Zero. 3456-060-9730 Professor Hal is here. I thought you were in Russia. No, I'm at the airport, mate. All right, mate. Carry on. Question or answer? No, I'm not having that gravity one with the compasses. I'm a flipping professor. James, the fact of the matter is, it's nothing to do with gravity whatsoever. Everything to do with two magnets lining up the magnet of the compass and the magnet of the earth. Internal iron containing compounds going round. Yeah. So? Do you remember last week I said f equals gmm over r squared? The same thing applies to that. The further away you get, it decreases exponentially. So, yeah, but it would decrease completely by the time you got to the outer reaches of our atmosphere. But it's nothing to do with gravity and everything to do with the magnetic force, which is an other fundamental force of which there are. It must have something to do with gravity, because that's. It's got nothing whatsoever. I'm so very sorry. No. All right. Anyway, Clinton's calling me on the other line, mate. Vladimir. All right. Be careful, won't you? I won't make any fittings. I mean it. I know what you like. Just be very careful, all right? Relations between Russia and the United Kingdom are the worst they've ever been. And on this occasion I'm not sure I could get you out. I'd have to channel your granddad, wouldn't I? You would. You absolutely would have to do that. Who is Professor Hal's granddad? Only the commander of the polish first independent Parachute Brigade. Immortalized in film as Professor Howe. Gene Hackman. Gene Hackman in a bridge too far. This is for people. Do you know what? We've fallen into a trap lately, Halif, presuming that everybody's been around for as long as you and I have, but they haven't. I told the story about the. What was it like yesterday? And there was a whole new world of people who'd never heard it before. Coming up soon, the chocolate orange story and the chinese restaurant. Professor Hal. Bon voyage. Round of applause. I'm not taking leaves away, though, because I like them. Lawrence is Anisha Lawrence. Question or answer? Answer. Sky skyscraper. What is the definition of a skyscraper? Lawrence? The first skyscraper was the Flatiron building in Union Square, New York. After that, any building that was higher was called a skyscraper. So it's not a function of feet and feet and inches. Qualifications go to New York a lot. Are you sure? You haven't looked anything up. Lawrence, come on. I'm your favorite dentist. I know my favorite retired dentist. Actually. No. I don't want to alienate the people who actually look after my teeth. You are my favorite retired dentist. But this is a very odd nugget of knowledge to have plucked out of the ether. After being to New York many times and looking at this wonderful building, you ask, what was it? And it was the first skyscraper. I like it. I like it. And what I'm gonna do after that was called a skyscraper. Have you seen Gladiator, Lawrence? The film? Yeah. Yeah. I'm now gonna put Sheila Fogarty in the role of Joaquin Phoenix. And with, with the use of only her thumb, she is gonna decide whether you get a round of applause or not. I'm really glad I don't have to speak for once. He was Caesar, wasn't he? Yeah, obviously. There we go. Lawrence, you have a lovely day. The empress has spoken. Same to you. That's it from me for another day. We will do it all again. Tomorrow from ten. And now the Empress strikes back. The power. The power of the thumb. Thank you, James.