What is the most Isolated place in the world?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Oh, just trying to remember why we didn't do it last week. Was the government collapsing? Was that. Was that what it was? How long has Liz trust been gone? Was it Thursday that it all fell to pieces? But it does feel like a while since we've done a mystery. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. If you're not familiar with this, then try. Trust me, you're going to love it. I can say that with some confidence. It's one of the more. One of the most popular hours that we spent together in the week. Shall I talk you through how it works or should we dive straight in? In a nutshell, what we do on mystery hour is solve mysteries. Some of them are silly, some of them are serious, some of them are neither of the above. All of them are hopefully enlightening or illuminating, and we do it entirely without the aid of many reference points. So you're not allowed to google anything or search anything up. You have to prove to me that what you know, you knew before the question was asked. I think that covers it. My favorite contribution of the week will receive a mystery out board game. And I would remind you that Christmas is creeping up upon us and few things would elicit glee under the tree more than a neatly wrapped mystery hour board game. And my favorite contributor of the week will win one. But you can, of course, also buy your own. I'll tell you how you can do that. A little later in the program. You can find the full terms and conditions for the whatchamacallit. You can find the full terms and conditions for the. For the prize at LBC dot co dot UK. Time now is seven minutes after twelve and the. I mean, just crack on, shall we? I was just looking for some links, but I'll do that later. We'll just crack straight on. You can work out how it works. Let's go to Philip, who's in Sandhurst. Philip, question or answer? Oh, hello, James. I'm cocker hoot to get on, are you? Oh, is this downhill all the way? Now you've peaked. I have a question, but just before, if you allow me, could we raise the bar for not having mystery hour a little bit? Because otherwise, I fear with the current incumbents in our government, we'll miss loads of mystery. You mean a collapsing government is probably not a remarkable enough event to abandon mystery. Yeah, exactly. We need to sort of like just raise that a little bit. Otherwise, you know, you make some. You make a valid point. Let's see. How long soon. If he goes next week, then mystery hour will prevail. All right. Super. Okay, so my question is, with the exception of the 100 meters, every other running event in athletics goes anti clockwise around the track. Yeah. And you could throw in cycling, speedway, roman chariot racing. So why is it we go anti clockwise around the track? I know this. Oh, yeah. Okay. No, I do. I actually think it's in the spirit. This is my boy. This is my game. You said. No, I know. Cause I can't remember, can I? But I'm 50 years old now, and I had a COVID jab yesterday, so I'm just feeling a bit groggy, and I'm just trying to drag it up from my memory back. And now you're killing for time. Exactly. Expecting it to pop into my brain fully formed. I think it's in the board game, this one. I actually think we've had it before, but it's got. It's got something to do with. Oh, I can't remember. No, that's it. You're out of time. You have to put it to the. Why is it anti clockwise? And of course, someone might ring in now, and I'll ask them what their qualifications are, and they'll say, it's come up in the mystery, our ball game. Now they say I've got a decent memory. Oh, yeah. Well, all right, mate. Think about all the plates I've got spinning on an average morning. You know, I can't be dragging all this stuff. Right, you're in. You're on. Okay, I'll see what we can do. Why are they all anti clockwise? They didn't used to be. I think there was one meeting in the beginning of the 20th century where they ran clockwise and something went wrong, and that's the reason. But that's not going to get me a prize, is it? That's not going to get me a prize. Thank you, Philip. Running races. Why are they anti clockwise and Mike's in pool. Mike, question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Yes. It's regarding the sun's rays. If the sun's rays are parallel, then eclipses don't cause the two shadow types, an umbra and a penumbra. And if rays do come in all angles, then Aristotle needs test and belief. Have you found the right program? Test and belief that we can test the earth. Rotundity are also out. So which fact is true, James? Um, the first had both. The first one, obviously. Well, then. Then Aristophanes was. Was incorrect. I thought Aristophanes wrote comedies. No, Aristophanes was supposedly measuring the earth's rotundity. Wasn't that Aristotle? Parallel rays. Wasn't that Aristotle? No. Aristophanes. Aristophanes. Eratosthenes. Erehomenes. You know the name, James. I don't. Aristophanes was at wrote comic praise. Eratophanes. You can make fun, James. I'm not making fun. I'm not making fun. Why are you being snippy? I'm just trying to work out. You are being a bit snippy. Now, let's just clarify for the audience. If the rays from the sun are parallel, then eclipses do not cause two shadow types. The umbra and a penumbra. Yeah. And if rays do come in at all angles, then eratophanies. There's no one called. There is no one called eratophanies. Test that. We can test the earth rotundity in the same way. Are out. Only one of these other fact is incorrect, James. So which fact is correct? I don't know who eritophanes is. I think you're setting to who is Eritophanes. No, there's not high bar, James. It's a greek chap. We all know who he is and no one knows who he is. Stop saying that. I know who aristophanes is. He wrote comedies. Eratophanies. Every two. There is no era tau phonies. How do you spell it then? Tough to this. What? You're making fun of me, James. Making fun of. Not very good at speaking on the radio. I'm not very good? I think you're making fun of you now you're making me feel bad. I'd need to know who you are talking about that I'm not aware. To knees. He's a greek man, a scientist who tested the earth's rotundity based on the parallel rays, the sun. So which is true, which fact must go. James. Do you know how to spell his name? E r. Yeah. O s t h e n e s. Right. Thank you. Now, I'm not very good at talking, James, especially live on air. Well, you knew what was going to happen when you rang in, Mike. It's not as if I phoned you and took you by surprise, is it? No, no, absolutely. But I can only pronounce the words as best. But I told you who was. But I don't know who he is. I've never heard of him. Have I? So I don't know how much you've been to your school, James. You had a classical education, didn't I? Gave up. I never did greek and I gave up Latin at 16, so I'll never go. I'm the informer now. So your tract is true, which means the other. Why are you being so aggressive? I'm not aggressive. I'm incredibly aggressive. Well, all I needed to do was clarify what his name was. I can find Eratosthenes of Cyrene, a greek polymath. We've found that now. Yes. Good. And I don't understand the question. If rays from the. No, I heard it. I heard it. I just don't understand. Eclipses do not cause two shadow types. You can't have both. All right, well, I've never said you could, because otherwise the rays go in at all angles. So that means his science was incorrect. And science is king, isn't it? So, which is correct, James? I don't know. Let's crack on with that one. If you can manage at the end of the day, I'll send you a book token. Thank you. No worries. All right. Good luck. And you. It's 1214. You're listening to mystery out. James O'Brien on LBC. Oh, Dave's in Bournemouth. Dave. Question or answer? Question, James. But I don't know how I can follow Mister Mistoffeley. No, I don't know what happened then, really. And I don't really understand the question, but I don't. I don't know. Someone maybe understood it and they'll be able to answer. Eratosthenes is a bloke. He did exist. But Aristophanes, which is what he said the first time, does actually write comedies. Or did write comedies. So anyway, maybe my question should just be, what on earth was he on about? No, that's not fair. Let's crack on. Let's take Mike's advice. Go on. I just wanted to know, where does the phrase you've been fired comes from? I can understand someone being sacked because they might get a sack to clear their belongings if you've been fired. I mean, your research has said maybe they just got shot. Crikey. But, yeah, they've had a long day. Yeah. The origin. The origin of your. Of being fired. I'm just trying to think. I mean, it's opposite of hired fire. That doesn't work, does it? Well, I don't know. Not convincing. No, it's not convincing. Right, you're on. Yeah. Why do we. Where does that. Where does that come from. Thank you, Dave. You're welcome. Of course, there was a famous. No, I won't go there. It is 1215. This is LBC. 19 minutes after twelve is the time. And if you want to get a copy. A copy? I never know what the correct noun is. If you want to get the mystery hour board game in time for Christmas, then you better crack on. Get over to either mysteryhour dot co dot UK or you can also get it from John Lewis and indeed from Amazon as well. But mysteryour dot co dot UK is the best place to get it from. It is 19 after twelve. Remember, there is a free game for whoever's contribution. This week is my favorite. I know who it's not going to be, but we shall. We shall continue to seek answers to these questions. Why are running races anti clockwise? What's the origin of the phrase you're fired? Or just the word fired in the context of being dismissed from employment? And then we got Mike's question about eratosthenes and eclipses and the sun, which I didn't really understand, but I didn't. I got a bit frightened by the end of that conversation and didn't want to insist that he explained it better. All right, don't at me. Gerard is in Worcester. Gerard, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. First of all, I'm a hard nosed Kidminster Harriet fan. I used to live in Copley for many, many years now in Worcester. Got a good result on Tuesday night. God. Not bad, didn't it? Right, so let's get straight to him. Thank you, carry on. I'm a really big fan, going back in the day for the Douglas Adams books, the hitchhiker guide at the galaxy, and many years ago I picked up a line there which has always troubled me in a nice way and I've never checked it out. So the question is, James, what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object? Does this question admit an answer? I don't know. I've never checked it out. I keep google it, but, yeah, what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object? I can guess the answer, but I'd like to put it out to your listeners because I'd love to know the answer. Perhaps there isn't one. I don't know. Well, I mean, it's physics. Is it? I suppose. I mean, if it's an immovable. Yeah, I mean, crikey. Philosophy. I think it's physics fantasy that say there may not be an answer. My. Well, I won't offer my sort of thoughts, but, yeah, please, I'd love to know the answer if anybody's got one. Yeah, you're on. Let's do it. Thank you, James. What happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object? Thank you, Gerard. And 21 minutes after tolls. It's time. Robin is in. Warwick. Robin, question or answer? Question, please, James, carry on. So we have cheesemongers, fishmongers and Costa mongers and ironmongers. Why do we call a butcher a butcher and not a meat monger? Ah, well, I think it's because mongers just sell, whereas butchers do butchery. So that. So it's gone. The fish do that too. They don't really. They don't really. They might. They might fill it. A fish. Fill it. A fish fillet a fish. Or fill it or descale it or something like that. But they're not. I mean, they're not butchering it. You don't need. I mean, it's a skilled job, butchering, isn't it? Yeah, but fishmongers still, like, swap fish to make sure they're in the right condition. No, I know that, but I mean, it's the butchery that is the point of the butcher's job title. It's not the selling of the meat. That's sort of secondary, as it were. The butchery is a butcher. That fella, he's a butcher, he butchers animals. The other, the bloke over there, the fishmonger, he just sells fish, really. You might be able to clean them up for you a bit, if you want, but it's not, you know, I don't want to offend any fishmongers, but I suppose cutting up a massive fish has comparisons with butchery. But. But again, not really. You never go and buy like, a shoulder of cod, do you? Or you mean it's just pieces of fish, really, just chopping it up? It's not. It's not butchery, it's chopping. I mean, I don't know if you're going to get a answer to this that's better than the one I'm giving you, but I sense you're not satisfied with what I'm. What I'm saying. Not really. Well, that's charming, that is, isn't it? I don't know what else I mean. All right, why don't we call butchers meat mongers? That's the question. Yeah, right. But what I mean, then you could say, why don't we call fashion shops, clothesmongers? We could be here all day. Exactly. Why don't you call me gamesmonger when I'm knocking out mystery hour board games? I don't have one yet. Why don't we call bookshops bookmongers? I forget. That's a good question. Why wouldn't we? I don't know. I'll try to find out for you. Why don't we call butchers meat mongers? Thank you, Robin. I bet that question turns out to be really good, actually, and there's a reason it's probably I've come at it from the wrong angle. It's to do with when we use the word monger, not when we don't use the word monger, but anyway, 24 minutes after twelve is the time William is in pearly. Question or answer, William. I've got a question, James. I was just wondering, is there officially a most isolated place in the whole world? Yes, there is. Where is it? Liz Truss's sitting room. Where? Liz Truss's sitting room. Liz Truss? Liz Truss's sitting room. I read a book. Oh, yeah? Polar explorer called Tom Cream Crean. And he went to the Antarctic and he said, where you land on the Antarctic to cross to the south Pole, there's a range of mountains in between there. And he said only about a dozen people in the world have ever seen that range of mountains. I was just wondering if that's officially the most isolated place in the whole world that ranger mountains and the Antarctic. I'm just going to ignore my absolutely first class political satire, are we, William? Well, I thought maybe you were joking. I thought maybe you weren't serious. It was a really good joke. It was a really good, off the cuff, topical political joke that. I mean, with no warm up, no warning in advance. I just nailed it right in the moment. And you're just cracking on about Antarctica. Well, if it does turn out to be the most isolated place in the world, this trust is front room, then you can get a round of applause. Good luck to you. I'll just hand it over to you, then. No, you're on. I mean, what is your definition of isolated, though? Well, it's pretty hard to get to. It's further away from anywhere civilized place in the world. I mean, is that a good enough definition for the most isolated place in the world? Just tell me. You could say you've been there. The least visited place where furthest from human dwellings, from human residents. I don't know what the definition would be, but it seems important. So maybe there is. Maybe someone knows that there is a place? The most officially the most isolated place in the world. It's further away from anywhere else in the world anymore. Isolated spot in the whole world. It'd be like a little island, wouldn't it? Well, it's just that I like to sort of tick things off on my bucket list and if there is such a place, then I'll go there and that will be another thing ticked on. Are you serious? How will you get there? Well, I'll just find a way. Well, all right, I'll try and find out for you, but I don't want to be responsible if you get there and it's rubbish. Well, I'll accept your policies. Now then, if it is rubbish, carry on. That's a great question from William. What is the most isolated place in the world? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. It is 1226 and Amy is in Ealing. Amy, question or answer? Good afternoon, James. I've got a question for you. Carry on. So I was thinking back to the time of the Queen's passing and I was wondering how military personnel were selected for state and important event. And why I ask is because when the funeral was being arranged, I read that a couple of the Bera party had been flown back from their posts in Iraq specifically to be part of the bearer party. But I was thinking that more than likely there would be loads of other soldiers that are suitable to fulfill that role in London and throughout the UK. And I understand that it's probably a specific battalion that did that, but I'm curious to know how they're selected for such events and why these guys in particular were thrown back. Because, as I understand it, they were turned back to Iraq a few days after the funeral. Gosh. Yeah. It's a really good question. Who decides? How do they. How do they get the gig? Yeah, I know, I know it was two of them for sure of, I think, eight in the bear party, but, yeah, I just wondered why they were selected and they were flown over and then flown back quite soon. Do you know James Blunt? I do. The singer? No, not me. Yeah. Beautiful. That guy. Yeah, he, uh. He, he. I'm pretty sure he stood guard at the Queen Mother's coffin when she was lying in state 20 odd years ago. 20 years ago or so. So he would know if he's listening, that'd be a Ray Liotta, wouldn't it? Do you know why he did that? No, I don't. I mean, I'm just pointing out that it adds to your question, in a way, doesn't it? Yeah. Why would you get that nod when there's loads of people who might have been considered? How do they actually make the final, final decision? He was in the household cavalry, I think, or the lifeguard. Same thing, yeah. All right, you're on. I'll find out who. How do they decide who's going to do the pallbearing or the standing guard from the military at a royal funeral? Yes. Thank you. I like that question. 28 minutes after twelve is the time Amos is in wantage. Question or answer, Amos? Answer, please, James. It's the sun's rays question that you were confused about. Go on, then. Okay, so essentially, both answers are more or less correct for a given level of correct. So when the sun's rays leave the sun, they'll obviously fly off in all directions, but there's quite a long distance between sun and the earth, and so by the time they get here, they are more or less parallel and close enough to parallel to be able to make a good guess at the earth's circumference. Right. I still don't understand the question. So, yeah, if they were precisely parallel, you wouldn't get. Because the. I'm trying to come up with a. Yeah, you're very polite, because I'm trying to come up with a way of explaining it to someone who's really stupid, is what you were thinking then, isn't it? Not really, because it's quite hard to do that. But essentially, if you think, right, from the bottom of the sun hitting the top of the object. Yeah. And like, from the top of the sun hitting the bottom of the object, that's going to create the outer. Got it. The outer. I'm doing a diagram. I'm doing a diagram. Yeah. And then if you have the top of the sun lined up with the top of the object, top of the bottom, sun lined up with the bottom of the object, you have an inner shadow. And so if they. If the light was absolutely parallel, outer and inner, you'd only get top of the. You've got. So, yeah, so they're both correct. So they're both correct. Eratophanes, aristophanes. Eratosthenes. And the other statement as well. Yeah. So there's obviously going to be a small level of inaccuracy, because they're not going to be absolutely precisely, but by the time they reach Earth, they're so close together. They're so close. The ones that are going to be actually casting the shadows are so close together, they're as near as damn it to parallel. Precisely. Got it. I actually did get that last bit. Qualifications. Well, there you go. I'm an ex physics teacher. Round of applause for Amos. Thank you. Thank you. I hope that Mike is happy. 1231 is the time. And Lottie. Lottie. Lottie with an L. Lottie Morley is here with your headline. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero three four five six zero six zero nine seven three. Twelve. Thirty five is the time. You are listening to James O'Brien on LBC where questions still in need of answers include why we run anti clockwise around running races. We've done the sun. Why we say you're fired to people who are being dismissed from their job. What happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object? Why are butchers not called meat mongers? What is the most isolated place in the world? And how are members of the military selected for duty on the occasion of royal funerals? There's a lot there. That's nice. 1235. And Philip is in Inverness. Philip. Question or answer? Morning, James. I've got an answer. Carry on. It's about the military personnel for the funeral. Oh, yeah. So there's two parts to the question. So the first one I'll answer is in terms of all the personnel that you saw on parade were all part of Operation London Bridge. And so units that traditionally had links to the sovereign were invited to provide x number of people for certain roles. So the commanding officer would make the decision. Yeah. So each. So cat badge, regiment service, even so, air force, army, Navy for years and years about plans in place of how many people they would need and what they would do. And while there wasn't necessarily private John Smith was doing it, it was a company ex battalion will provide this many people. So those were all sort of prearranged. And then it came down to, you know, at the time of Her Majesty's passing, the units are then required to provide names to fill those roles. And then in terms of. I think there was a mention made about the Baylor party. So the lads that were carrying the coffin. Yes. So they all came from the Queen's company, first battalion Grenadier Guards, of which Her Majesty is traditionally the company commander. So they don't have. Normally you have a major command in an infantry company they are commanded by the sovereign. And then the. The company second in command, so to speak, is the major who would actually command them in operations and in battle and administration. And then that company was unique that for a long time you had to be a minimum height of six foot two to serve in the company. And the idea being that everyone was the same height, so that when you picked a bearer party, all the soldiers were the same height when they were carrying the coffin, so that it moved smoothly and looked correct and uniform. Yeah, that's a beautiful answer. Very comprehensive. Height restrictions now being dropped to five foot ten, has it, so. But they're still the tallest. Tallest company on average, in the british army. Qualifications? I've been in the army for twelve years and I'm an advanced drill instructor, which means I teach things like carrying coffins at funerals, unfortunately. Have you had any? You just teach it, you don't do it yourself. Thankfully, I so far haven't had to carry a coffin at nothing. You say that. Would it not be considered an honor, though? I mean, not. But clearly you don't fancy it, but other people would want to be. I mean, being part of London Bridge or the sovereign student would have been. Would have been a huge honor. Right. I was actually. I was out on operations at the time, so I wasn't involved. But I meant as in I've not had to carry, like, one of my friends or colleagues or anything like that. Yes, of course. So, yeah, so that's because that's normally where we teach it for, as opposed to, you know, a royal funeral, thankfully comes around very rarely, but, yeah, we have for the last ten or twelve years, had to do far too many of our own, so. So you, you are. I mean, I'm just thinking about how many drill instructors are there. I mean, I've had. I've had one thing before, James. I feel uncomfortable taking one again. So this is the military man, this is the military side, isn't it? The selflessness of the military man. Philip, I will decide whether you get another one or not. I don't care whether. I mean, I think we qualify probably. I think there's two courses a year of about 30 people, so it's like 60 of us new qualify every year. So it's not. It's not anything rare. All right then. Just a round of applause. It is, then. Thank you, Philip. Take care. It is 1239 and Steve is in Bromsgrove. Steve, question or answer? Question, please, James. Carry on. Steve, at what point of dressing as a police officer would it be classed as impersonating a police officer? So I'm not talking about being a good stripper here, I'm talking about, like, if you were wearing, like, black trousers, black shoes and had a jacket on with police on the back, would that be classed or is there a. What have you. What are you planning, Steve? What have you got planned? I'm just trying to get some ideas at the moment. Right. So I'm just seeing where my. Where the cut off is. I presume that the cut off is when you tell someone you are actually a police officer and you, you know, you want to take down their particulars or something. If you were in your car and you had a jacket on or something or with lapels or a hat that looked like a police hat, yeah. Would that be classed as impersonating a police officer because you wouldn't be able to tell them? I wouldn't have thought so. It's only. It's only when you then start telling other drivers to pull over or telling other drivers what to do that you would be impersonating a police officer. Impersonating a police officer. I don't know why I'm speaking so confidently, I'm making this up as I go along. But impersonating a police officer and dressing up as a police officer are not the same thing, are they? When you think about it, I don't know, if you're walking along the streets at night and you were looking as if you were a police officer, was that not. No, because that's just dressing up as a police officer. But the minute you go, hello, hello, hello, empty your pockets, then you're impersonating a police officer. Okay? I mean, I'm not going to take a round of applause, I'll wait for a police officer to tell us, but I am slightly concerned about what? What you've got planned. Well, no, no, nothing like that. That's what you would say. Now you can't wait to get off the phone. Steve, what's going on, mate? What's going on? Seriously, don't think very long and hard about this before you do anything foolish. I will, I will. Promise? Promise. All right, I'll try and get you an answer. Well, at what point does dressing up at a policeman become impersonating a policeman? Val's in Brighton. Val, question or answer? I have an answer. James, carry on. It's to the most remote place on planet Earth. Liz tosses sitting room that's more like it. You should have got a random report. I thought it was genius. Carried on regardless. Like I hadn't said anything anyway. You're wasted on his dreams. You wasted on us. So, yeah, the most isolated place on planet Earth isn't on land, it's in the Pacific Ocean and it's an area called Point Nemo. Oh, yeah. So if you say you're on a boat and you're at Point Nemo, you would have to travel well over a thousand miles to get to the nearest landmass or any other human beings. And then the qualification actually comes into this, because basically I love space and space travel. I'm quite fascinated by it. Point Nemo is also called a spacecraft graveyard because obviously, if you need to decommission a rocket or a satellite, you don't want it crashing onto land and therefore potentially hurting people. They plot the trajectory so that they aim for point Nemo because it's so massively isolated. They know that they're not going to harm anybody by crashing back down to earth. Funnily enough, if you are at point Emo, the closest human beings that you would encounter would actually be the astronauts on the international space Station if they would happen to be flying overhead at that point, because, yeah, it's just so isolated. They would be the closest people to you. I don't know whether or not the person that asked the question, William would accept or was looking for a land based answer to that, but he didn't say so. So you definitely. You definitely qualify. It's the most remote place. So, yeah, I mean, if that's the question, then that's the answer. And he would want to be. He'd have. If he wants to go there, he'd have to be on a boat. Yeah, essentially. Cool. It'd be very dangerous, though, because, you know, God forbid you want to sink. You're not going to. You're not going to get anywhere. You're not going to find anybody anytime soon. So. No, you're worth a thousand miles. We have to get a. I mean, it's a special kind of boat as well. What qualifications. You just look, you just know about it because of space. Yeah. I'm fascinated with space and sort of space travel and stuff. And like I said, it is the graveyard for spacecraft. There it is. Round of applause for Val, please. Lovely stuff. I like that a lot. Operation Nemo, you remember that, won't you? I just want to say sorry to Ian and Lorraine and indeed to any other angry fishmongers. The last thing I need at this point in my career is a vendetta from the fishmongering community. Ian and Lorraine Wright. Hello, James. We are fresh fishmongers and totally disagree with you. It takes many years to learn our trade. It's more intense than being a butcher. We'd love you to come to our shop and learn. Sorry, I take it all back. I mean, I don't know what came over me. It's utterly unnecessary and unjustified aspersions cast upon the professionalism and expertise of fishmongers. I couldn't chop up a fish in a satisfactory way in a million years. Whereas a pig would be a piece of cake, wouldn't it? You know? No, they'll leave it. Stop trying to turn fishmongers against butchers. The question anyway was, why aren't they called meatmongers? Glenn's embassildon. Glenn. Question or answer? Answer. Meat mongers. Yeah, go on. All right, mate. So basically, a monger is an old english anglo saxon expression for trades person. Yes. So an ironmonger, obviously, would be a blacksmith. Yes. Whereas things like butchery, baking, cooking, these were community services that were done in and amongst the community rather than a trade. So if you wanted to get to meet in, you would either buy an ox off a cow, off a cowherd or whatever, take it back to your village and your village would butcher it up and kill the meat as they need it. Cook what meat they wanted. Same with baking. It would be a community project or you do it in your own home. You wouldn't trade and sell bread. Generally in the anglo saxon period, the idea of butchering came about kind of, really, after norman conquest. It's a french word, butchery, I believe. And it's obviously after that we start to get more and more urbanized. Now you need specialist people who cut up the meat for you rather than doing it in your own home. Yeah. Makes perfect sense, doesn't it? They didn't eat a lot of meat back then anyway. They hardly ever had any because it was. It was only for the toss, pretty much. I mean, the toss might have had, you know, butchers themselves, but I don't think in the anglo saxon theory they would have referred to them as butchers. I've never come across anything like that in any of my studies. Beautifully done. Boucher, is it? Boucher. Boulangerie for bakery. Boucher. Boucher. Boucherie. Boucher for butcher in French. So it's come with the Normans, probably, yeah. Those terms would have come with the Normans, most likely, I would imagine. I don't speak French. I speak a little bit of old English. I know you do. I've never come across the word. I've come across Irumonger, which is blacksmith, you know, so I've never come across. I don't think I've come across fishmonger either, to be honest. That might have been applied after. But obviously as language, it changes in vowels with time. Anyway. Cheesemonger. Cheesemonger. Come across a cheese monger? No. No. But funny enough, you live in Chiswick, don't you? Yeah. And. Which means it used to be rural place, but later on meant village. Yeah. Or farm, even. So chicken would probably refer to a dairy. It was, yeah. Down by the old church. Cheese wick. There's a rather good cheese market now every other every month. Chesa witch in old English. I remember coming across that and thinking of you, actually. Chesa, which. I like it. I don't want everyone to think of me when they think of cheese. Have you got a board game yet? No, I've not given you one. Or you haven't bought one? No, I haven't bought one, no. I play loads of ball games. My flat mate. We like nerdy Star wars games and things like that. Warhammer and all that, so. Well, you're on the list. Qualifications? Qualifications. Scholar of anglo saxon language. Really? And, yeah, anglo saxon historical nerd, basically. Love it. Okay, Glenn, you're there. Another round of applause for Glenn, please. Thank you very much. Thank you. Please. Thank you. Ear on the monga. It's Chaucer in it. That's how you. The way you speak. I mean, it's a bit later probably, but that. The way he pronounced it reminded me of my Chaucer. That's why I used to hate Chaucer. 1246 is the time. Coming up at one on LBC, Sheila Fogarty left speechless by wretched conditions, the UK border authorities left asylum seekers in. An inspector calls. So, really lovely stuff, this. This week on Mister Hour, I feel illuminated and indeed educated. Oddly, one of the ones I thought would be ticked off first hasn't gone yet. Why do we run anti clockwise around a track? What's the origins of firing someone from a job? Why fire? Where does fire come from? What happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object? I thought Glenn's Munger's answer was brilliant. I hope Robin was satisfied. Similarly, Val, on the most isolated spot, point Nemo. That's lovely. I just heard a tweet. Just got a tweet of someone whose daughter went through it the other day on her honeymoon cruise. How lovely is that? That would be even lovelier if I could find it, wouldn't it? But I managed to blow that. Here we go. It's off cliff. My daughter Jessica sailed through point Nemo a week ago en route from Hawaii to Sydney on her honeymoon cruise. How delightful. The pallbearer's answer was brilliant from Philip. And we need another answer. We need an answer still to the question about at what point does dressing up as a police officer become impersonating a police officer? 1252 is the time Alexander is in King's Lynn. Question or answer, Alexander? It is an answer, James. And it's an answer to the police uniform question. Ah yes. Now that's governed by section 90, subsection two of the Police act of 1996. So it's set out in the statute and effectively it says if you wear articles of police uniform in circumstances which give you the appearance of resembling a police officer and it's so close that the conclusion would be you're intending to deceive people. Yes. Then you go to defense. That's a point when you're intending to deceive people. That's what I said. And it's got to be in circumstances. But there is a second point, a second part to the answer, of course, because you can pretend to be an officer without wearing an item of police clothing. So you could pretend, I suppose, to be a detective or something. And that's covered by subsection one of the fame act. And there it's the intent to deceive that matters rather than the circumstances. Fantastic qualifications. Ex CPS prosecutor, district crown prosecutor and 20 years as a criminal barrister. Did you ever prosecute anyone who had been impersonating a police officer? I never did prosecute that one though. What a shame. Do you follow Kingsley and FC by any chance? I'm not a football man I'm afraid. No, that's quite all right. It's just a big game coming up on the 12 November against kid and Mister Harris. We could have had a bovril together. Denied you a bit of a chat. Yes indeed. Round of applause for Alexander, please. Lovely stuff. Lovely answer. Steve. Be careful mate. I don't know what it is you've got planned, but I hope you understand the gravity of the offense that Alexander just described. It's all very well dressing up as a police officer, but the minute you start trying to persuade someone else that you are, or give the impression that you are, then you are breaking the law, my friend. Mike, Chennai. Question or answer? Mike? Oh hi James. It's an answer. Carry on. It's an answer to the. Well the question, as I remember it was an irresistible force meeting in it. Unmovable object goes back a long way and I remember it from the sixties actually, the old Superman DC comics. It used to come up as a plot device quite frequently and. Yeah, and also there was a song which I remember from the old movies. I can't remember if it's Frank Sinatra or somebody, but that was essentially what. And I'm not going to sing it. When an irresistible force such as you meet an immovable object like me, you can bet as sure as you live something's got to give. And I think that's the answer. Something's got to give. I can't give you a round of applause for that. It's a song lyric. I wanted some physics or something. I have finished, believe it or not, the old DC comics used to have a letter section and there was actually some discussion of that in the letter section and somebody wrote in with quite a sensible answer about the irresistible force, immovable object. And basically, they're mutually contradictory. Only one can exist. If something is irresistible, then something else can't be moved. Well. And vice versa. Exactly. I think you're correct. Qualifications? Well, I'm a retired pathologist, but I have a science background. Of course you do. You'd hope so. Yeah. Round of applause for Mike. Lovely stuff. Enjoying the time at Mike? Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. Better than working, I can imagine. Thank you, mate. Lovely stuff. And Josh is in Manchester. Josh, question or answer? Answer. If I could please carry on. So, through the question as to the terms backed and fired. Oh, yeah. So the person who. Sorry, go on. No, sorry. I was just making an encouraging noise. Oh, love it. The caller was correct in that fact is about being given a bag to put all your tools in. Yes. Because the term comes back from kind of old trades. And the idea is if you were sacked, you put your tools in, you could go and find a job somewhere else. Now, if you were fired, it's because you'd done something so egregious that your tools were actually going to be burned, be destroyed, and therefore you couldn't go and get a job anywhere else. So even though the terms are kind of synonymous now, there were different levels of losing your job. So if you're laid off, you were sacked, but if you'd done something to really deserve it, then you were fired. Oh, I like that. I bet. I mean, it's gone. It came from an old book that my. My dad had knocking about called Balderdash and piffle. Okay. That had basically the explanations of kind of all english phrases you could imagine from hoisted by your own petard. Happily happy as. I like that. I might borrow that title for my autobiography. I like that. I like that because it's like a sort of entry level, slightly more knockabout version of Brewer's dictionary, a phrase and fable or something like that. And that is. It makes sense in a way, doesn't it? Set fire to the tool so that you can't play your trade anymore. Yeah. So that you can't just walk down and get a job from the guy next door because you've done something really, really bad. I'm going to give you a round of applause for that. Josh, well played, mate. Oh, thank you. Sensational. Thank you. Time now, just coming up to 1258. Greg's in Kingston. Greg, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. Hello. I'm around the track anti clockwise, because at the first London Olympics, the monarch had to be on the finish line. And so they had to be. They built a stadium, they put the royal box in and it was at the end of the finishing straight, so there was the only one way that they could run. It would have been. Anyway. What? And now the final qualifications. I'm going to give you a round of applause. Well played. Why are you chuckling? Did you just make that up? Well, no, it's true. Absolutely true. London Olympics, the queen had to be at the finish line. Yeah, okay. I mean. I mean, I've given you a round of applause. We might have to trash the mystery ballgame. I'm pretty sure that's not the answer that we've got got on the card in the ball game, but never mind. It's late now and Sheila's ready to start. Well done, everybody. Doing a state visit to the radio show. Well done, everybody. I'm going to give the game to Glenn this week. I really enjoyed his answer about mongers. I nearly gave it to Robin, who asked the question. But Glenn has provided me with many, many satisfying answers drawn from his anglo saxon scholarship. So, the mystery out. If you want your own mystery out game, you can go to mysteryad dot co dot uk dot or Amazon or John Lewis. And remember, Christmas is coming and it's extremely good. That's it for me for another day. We'll be doing it again tomorrow morning from ten, here's Sheila Fogarty.