Why does my tea taste so awful?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Three minutes after twelve is the time. I wasn't exaggerating. There really is a mystery archive. We kind of. I say we. I don't go anywhere near it, but somebody chops out all the adverts and all of the other bits and you end up with pure, undiluted mystery hour. And there's loads of them now. There must be hundreds of them. Not in the archive. You can work. They're good for long journeys. Something for all the family. And of course, so successful has it proved over the years that it has even spawned a video game. I am going to a games fair next week. How exciting is that, man tv. Stephen Mulhern will be on the big sky games stand at the big games fair in. It's in Earl's court. So if you do, if you're in the business, if you're in that, do come and say hello. And speaking of the game, you can of course, win one by being the provider of my favorite contribution of the week, the full terms, conditions, to find out about that, because it is a proper competition on the proper radio station over at LBC Dot co dot UK. There's 500. It's really 500 episodes, give or take. So this is the 500th episode. Oh, we should. We should record messages from politicians, shouldn't we? And play back some. How come nobody. If you literally just noticed now that this is the 500th episode of Mystery, did anybody else notice? Did the producer notice this is the 500th mystery hour? We think it must be more than that. 500 since we started it. 500 since we started podcasting it. I think. I don't think podcasts were a thing when we started. It was so long ago. It was about 18 years ago, wasn't it? Back when we used to do beat the sweet? We used to do free for all Tuesdays. Does anyone remember free for all Tuesdays? I loved free for all Tuesdays. It was the laziest I have ever got away with being on the radio. I'd let you decide what we were talking about. I'd come on air at 10:00 on a Tuesday and say, what do you want to talk about today? And then you'd ring in and tell me what you wanted to talk about. And I'd pretend that we were taking some sort of democratic decision on whether or not we were going to continue with that topic or not. But really, I was just making it up as I went along. And what was the other one? Called treasure hunt. Oh, boy. Treasure hunt. That was when you'd ring in and tell me that you really needed to find something, but you couldn't find it anywhere. That shows how nascent the Internet was it in those days, because it actually worked on the radio. People might be missing a saucer from their nan's old tea set, or you might need a remote control for your telly. That shows. God, it shows how long we've been doing this. But anyway, this is the 500th podcasted edition of Mystery Hour, so it's a welcome aboard and you can of course buy a copy of the game at Mysteryhour Co UK or John Lewis and Amazon, various other places. But mysteryour dot co dot UK gives you the best descriptions of what it involves. It's a board game, mate, not a video game game. Sorry, I should have made that clear. I think I did. But someone's just asked, so it's a board game. Six minutes after twelve. Should we crack on? Should we do it? Should we do it? Are we good? Okay. Andrew's in Melton Mowbray. Andrew, question or answer? It's a question. Please, James, carry on. Yes. At Christmas, cooking a pan of Brussels sprouts and it was making that pun. Making that pungent smell, my partner said, drop a bay leaf into it and it will neutralize it. And it did. I want to know what's happening. What is the pungent smell? I've never really noticed that with sprouts. You mean that sort of brassica smells earthy, cabbagey? Yes, it is, yeah. It's quite like that. Yeah. I'll do you right. But if you put a bay leaf in, it takes the smell away. Straight away. It neutralizes the smell of it. Yeah. What is the chemical process that's happening? Why does the bay leaf work? I like that question a lot. Do you want to know a secret? Go on then. Do you want to know the best things that you can do with sprouts? Now, at this point, everyone listening is going, oh, here we go. Pancetta and chestnuts or bacon and chestnut. Right. That's what you just did, isn't it, Andrew? It was, yeah, absolutely. There you go, reading your mind live on the radio. Have you ever come across. I shared this. I thought I told them I'd given them an exclusive. I just did the podcast that Jessie Ware and her mum Lenny do the Table Manners podcast. I had a wonderful time. I went around to Lenny's house and she cooked me a lamb to Jean. I don't know when it's dropping. I've shared this with them, but apart from that, this is a world exclusive. Have you ever come across Saint Augustin cheese? Like the creamy blue cheese in the cheese? Right. Yeah, I have. Yeah. Stick a spoonful of that in with a bowl of sprouts and thank me later. What, when they're cooked or when they're cooking? No, when they're cooked. When they're all finished in the bowl. You can put a bit of butter if you want, but you could just go black pepper, cream, blue cream cheese, Santa Gustan cheese. And your socks will be knocked off. Nice one. I'll try later. Tell me how you get on. I swear. Will do. It's the first time I've invented a dish like properly. I know it's not really a complicated recipe. You get some shop bought cheese and chuck it in a bowl with some sprouts. But I don't think anyone else has ever done it. And it is. I tried it with Stilton. Doesn't quite work because it gets a bit curdy. You know, the Stilton, it melts a bit, but not. It's not the best cheese, but the scent. Augustin. Oh, Rob thought he said baileys. In fact, quite a lot of you thought he said baileys. Put a drop of baileys in with your sprouts to get rid of the sprouts. Well, it is Christmas, but no, he said bay leaf. So bay leaf and sprouts. Why does the former neutralize the latter? Zero. 345-606-0973 Matt's in Solihull. Matt, question or answer? Here's a question. Please, James, carry on, mate. Well, it's a question about beer. Okay. I like it already. I thought you might. I like the idea with the sprouts as well. So that's what I'm having for them. I cracked open one of my Christmas beers last night, and it said on the can that it was a porter. Yeah. So, dark beer. Quite a dark, rich beer, you know, and I've had a few of those before, but I've also got some beer in the fridge, which is a stout. And so now I'm wondering, what's the difference between a stout and a porter? Is it how they're brewed? Good question. Where they're from? Because to all intents and purposes, they're just a really dark beer. I think. And I think it is one of those questions that actually doesn't have an answer, but might have done once. Do you know what I mean? I think now there is. When we were kids, I don't know how old you are, but there was not a lot to choose from, was there, when it came to beer, really, you'd have a lager or a bitter or a stout pint of best. But now you've got. I mean, there's one around the corner from me, the black dog, that's got about 30 different pumps all the time, all year, all year round. You got. I had a strawberry beer the other day that was absolutely delicious. So I don't know that the words porter and stout are as distinct as they might once have been, but I've got. This was a marshmallow porter that I have. So if we're going. How was it? How was it? It was nice. Was it tiny rebel, stay puffed marshmallow porter. That sounds nice. I recommend it enough. That sounds lovely. I think somewhere in the back of my mind, I think one of them, I think you roast the barley before you brew with it, and with one of them, you don't. And Saint Augur, not St Augustine. Sorry, lads. Saint Augur is called Saint Agur. That was the one. That's the one you need for your sprouts. Lots of people texting me ag. You are. Sorry, sorry, sorry. But I think one of them is roasting and malting. They have different roasting and malting. Different relationships with roasting and malting the barley. So I guess which is which, I have no idea. And I can't remember which way around it is either, whether the one that's roasted isn't malted or whether the one that's not one that's malted isn't roasted. But. So I put it on the board. It's a lovely question, but in terms of your taste buds, there's no difference at all, really, is there? Now, apart from the one that's brewed in Ireland, you can always sell that one. Yeah, that's true. Lovely stuff. Thank you. Matt, what's the difference between a porter and a stout? And why does a bay leaf mitigate the fumes from sprouts? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. Jeff's in Hazelmere. Jeff, question or answer? It's a question. James, nice to talk to you again. This will be my fifth time, so I can retire from public life now. Well done. I think you're getting Obe. So, yes, a question. Why are the four blood groups. Why is there not just one blood group? There's 8 billion of us. Why the four different types? Planets, where they're one and then two and then three and then four and when's the fifth one coming? And I think this has come up before, but I'm dashed if I can remember what the answer. You know what, I looked through your board game this morning, so you don't need to send me one if I win. And I couldn't find it in there. So unless. Yes, it's very probably come up before it was an arc. I think the archive went the way of most features on this program and we just forgot to keep it up to date. There used to be an archive because we used the archive to do the board game, but I think when, yeah, we used to give it whenever anyone came in on work experience, we'd get them to update the mystery of these in your industry. They thought they'd be going to the House of Commons or interviewing the prime minister and the poor fellows had to sit there inputting data on. Yeah, why. Why are there four blood groups? You don't need to add, why is there not just white? It's not race or region related, it's not like the northern hemisphere, is it? Definitely not, no, no, it's not. So I give blood regularly and I asked the nurse relatively recently and she sort of looked at me as I was mad and I said, or maybe I'll call James O'Brien. And she went, oh yeah, that's a good idea. So there we're going to say. She said, who? I think you've had a knock on the head, mate. James. Ohuhu. We'll get you an answer to that. Why have we got four blood groups? Zero. 345-606-0973 is the. Is the number that you need blood groups? Beer and bay leaves. There's something there for everybody, all the major food groups. Chris is in Cowbridge in south Wales. Chris, question or answer? It's a question. James, great to speak to you. Likewise. My question is the following. Having been an avid scuba diver for many years and watching documentaries, it's occurred to me, why do marine mammals have a horizontal tail and fish a perpendicular tail? And I understand about evolution, but if evolution was in place, they'd have the same or variants of the same, but mammals have a horizontal and fish have an up and down perpendicular tail fin. Yeah, they do. And I don't understand why. No, well, I mean, you may have, you may have hinted at the answer unwittingly when talking about evolution and you'd expect it to be the same, but you wouldn't, would you, if. Well, why is it only mammals at the horizontal? If evolution was a part in it, then it would be whatever is most effective in the water. Correct. And some mammals would evolve a horizontal tail, but they don't. If you look at sharks and dolphins or sharks and whales. I am. Well, not literally. I'm thinking of them in my mind's eye. I'm looking at them. So why is it that fish. I understand the question, Chris. I'm not simple. I understand the question. You don't. I'm just thinking. I'm just pausing, you know, for a bit of dramatic effect and having a bit of a ruminant. I'm ruminating. I forget you do the voices in your book. I forget. You like a bit of drama. I do like a bit of drama. I do do the voices on the audio. They've gone down, rather. Paul Dacre in particular, people have been very, very delighted by. Although. Okay, you're on. Marine mammals have horizontal tail fins where fish have perpendicular ones. Why vertical? Is it vertical? Perpendicular, whatever. You know, they're upright. I don't know why that would be. I was thinking about living on land and sea, but that's. Amphibians. Is a mammal closer to the amphibian? Why am I even saying this out loud? 12:15 is the time. Thank you, Chris. And quite a few of you correcting my pronunciation, which is absolutely fine. Marty says, I know you're a pedant, so I would want you to be aware of the facts. It's pronounced San Aguur. Not, as I started off saying, Saint Augustino. So we've gone from Saint Augustino or something, auguran or something to. It's saint. It's spelt saint, but pronounced saint. Saint Agu. Agu. Saint Agu. And the point is, a spoonful of that on your sprouts will elevate them to heights that even sprout lovers have never scaled before. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. It is 19 minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. A little bit of breaking news for you. The government have been told off by the UK Statistics Authority for misleading you over the so called asylum backlog. This is the independent UK statistics author authority following the government being accused of lying about clearing part of the asylum backlog. The chairman, Sir Robert Choate, has warned that the episode may affect public trust. They write, the average member of the public is likely to interpret a claim to have cleared a backlog, especially when presented without context on social media, as meaning that it has been eliminated entirely. So it is not surprising that the government's claim has been greeted with scepticism and that some people may feel misled when these hard cases remain in the official estimates of the legacy backlog. This episode may affect public trust when the government sets targets and announces whether they have been met in other policy domains. It highlights the need for ministers and advisers to think carefully about how a reasonable person would interpret a quantitative claim of the sort and to consult the statistical professionals in their department. But that's not fair. Actually, it's not often I stick up from this government, but how on earth is Rishi Sunak going to be able to consider how an announcement may affect a reasonable person? He doesnt know any, does he? I mean have a look at. I mean did you know what they did yesterday? They put out a smear, Keir, which involved a picture of Keir Starmer and a mock up of a better call Saul. You remember the spin off from Breaking Bad because as a lawyer he gave some advice to a group that wasnt a terrorist group or a proscribed group when he gave them advice, but is now. He also prosecuted members of that group when he was DPP. But you know, this lot don't really care about the truth, do they? Or the facts, as indeed this reprimand from the UK statistics authority would prove. But it seems unfair to me, genuinely unfair to me, to expect Rishi Sunak's government to think carefully about how a reasonable person would interpret something they do because they literally don't know any reasonable people. That's how Lee Anderson ended up and Brendan Clark Sumter Smith ended up as deputy chairs of the party. I mean, there are no reasonable people. The inner circle is made up of weirdos from secretly funded think tanks, shills from right wing newspapers, a few australian propagandists thrown in for good measure. Where are the reasonable? Where on earth would Rishi Sunak go if he wanted to find out how a reasonable person would respond to something that he's about to do? I honestly have no idea. Oh, this has kicked off. It is actually pronounced Sant Agur. The t is pronounced because it's followed by a vowel. I thought that when I looked at it, like Mo et et Chandon, but there it is. Everyone's criticizing me for pronouncing a word that I even got wrong. I wish I never told you. You don't deserve me and my recipes. Putting a spoonful of Santa Ger on your sprouts is going to change your life and you're bombarding me with messages about my pronunciation. Just try the dish. Right. And then get back in touch with me. 22 after twelve. Mystery hour continues. Dan's in Falmouth. Dan, question or answer? Question. James. Carry on. So I drive around Devon and Cornwall for work. Oh, yeah. And I'm driving past. Are you a rally. Are you a rally driver? Nearly. No, I fix heat pumps, so I'm broken things. Yes. Frankie, you wouldn't want a broken heat pump at the moment, would you? Well, I'm up on a cold roof doing two now. Are you really? Well, be careful. Yeah, it's okay. Safe. Okay. Good man. Go on. So, yeah, I drive around Cornwall and there's every other town is St. Myth or St. Nat. You know, St. Austil, St. Clair. There's hundreds of them, it seems. And yet when I drive around Devon, there's next to zero. I think I can think of two. There's St. Giles on the heath and St. Judo. Yes. They're both near the Devon Cornwall border. So why is it cornish towns are named after saint. Why so many saints in Cornwall? Why are the towns named after the saints? That's what I mean. Yeah. You go all over the country and there's not that many places named saint. This ain't that. No, there is. I mean, there's a few. But there's a particular preponderance in Cornwall. I mean, so what you'd get is a church around which the dwelling has grown, or vice versa. So the area becomes known by the same name as the church. Wouldn't you? Yeah, but why doesn't that happen? I understand the question. I'm saying this to everybody now. I'm obviously in a bit of a bouncy mood today. I do apologize. I understand the question, Dan. I understand that they're named after. Yeah. Why so many? Why so many? Why so many? Is there Romans? Is there a lot of roman activity in Cornwall? But then you just mooring now? I would say definitely not. I'd say it's probably one place the Romans didn't have a lot of activity. The tin mines were roman, though, weren't they? Is it because Christianity came quite late to Cornwall? That's a good question. Why so many place names with saints in Cornwall? Yeah, love it. Good. Take care. Are you on top of the pump? So, I mean, do you know what the problem is? Oh, yeah, they've leaked all their refrigerant, so I need to. Why are they on the roof? Good question. Not a great place to put them, I wouldn't have thought. What did they say? Well, they thought it was the only place they could put them. Fair enough. Well, you take care of yourself. Wrap up warm. So I don't like to think of you out there on the roof, but I'm happy to be keeping you company. So why so many saint place names in Cornwall? I love Cornwall. And that is so far away, though, isn't it? You just. I don't get there very often. I do it when I retire. Why so many place names with Saint in Cornwall? Why do marine mammals have horizontal tail fin? They don't. All right. Lots of people writing about places and souls and flatfish. But apart from flatfish, I know the answer to this now, and I was right and I was knocking at the door of it. But I can't do that, can I? I can't retrospectively claim that. I just came into my head, literally. Then why are there four blood groups? What's the difference between poor and stout? And then he said, what's the difference between porter and sprouts? That'd be an easy round of applause, wouldn't it? One's a lovely green vegetable and the other's a pint of beer, mate. What's the difference between porter and stout? And why does a bay leaf neutralize sprout aromas during cooking? Michael's in Brentwood. Michael, question or answer? It's an answer for you, James. Good afternoon, by the way. Hello, Michael. Carry on. Answer to the beer question. Paul and stout. Yes. So, first and foremost, beer is all beer. Generally, unless you talk about ones, all beer is made up of four constituent ingredients. That's the grain, the water, the yeast and the. Oh, what else? The hops. Yes, I forgot for a second. The variants. Between the variants in those four ingredients can account for just about every different style of beer that there is, with additions. So, you know, a fruit beer or something like that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. Ignoring fruit, though, you know, all beers aren't fruited, come from those four ingredients. Now, specifically talking about porter and stout, so a little bit of history. Porter is a London beer. It was formed in Victorian England at the time. Yes. And it was brewed specifically that way to accommodate for all the horrible muck that was in the water at the time, because there wasn't very good sewage systems. And generally speaking, it was cleaner and healthier to drink beer than it was to drink water, which is why it has a low. Has quite a low abv. Traditionally, it would have been quite low in alcohol. And that is where the phrase, I believe small beer comes from. Yep. And also a pint of mould or, you know, a pint of strong owl, whatever. So you would hydrate with an alcoholic drink. Oddly, because it was. It was a. You were not going to get cholera. And it was cleaner. Yeah, it was much cleaner than water at the time. Because beer has to go through a boiling process. It boils out the impurities. Yep. But the porter specifically was brought about because sometimes just boiling it wasn't enough to kind of COVID up the flavor, ultimately. So they made dark, strong, heavy beers. Now, between. Speaking of ingredients, between a stout and a porter, the only real difference that I can think of as a brewer comes down to the water table itself. That is, the amount of minerals that are in the water naturally, potentially, depending on how much of a purist the beer maker wants to be. The grains that are used and how roasting. Roasting and malting play a part, albeit that there's no hard and fast rule or distinction between the two. Historically, roasting and malting both play parts, don't they? Correct. Yeah, that's. That's exactly what I was just saying. So, for darker beers, before, I believe just after they malt the grain. No. At some point, when they're malting the grains, they also roast the grains. Right. And generally, the longer they roast them or the hotter they roast them, the different. The different characteristics it kind of imparts into the beer itself, whether that is darker or caramel, whatever. But there's also the hops that they could use, whether kind of different bittering or flavoring hops. But you're never going to get a scenario where someone says, oh, have a porter, and someone else says, no, I think you'll find that's a stout. It's too blurred a distinction for that kind of conversation to kick in, really, isn't it? Yeah, yeah. And generally, I guess, the people that make the raw were the people that brew it, right? Yeah, exactly. If I want to say it's a porter, today, it's a porter. It's a stout. It's a stout, it's a stout. What are your qualifications? I know you've already told us, but we will go through the motions. I used to own a nano brewery, and I'm still very much a home brewer. What's your speciality? I'm mad. I make it all. I tend not to make the same thing twice, which I wasn't a very good nano brewer. Yeah, I was going to say that. You're not going to really encourage regular customers, are you, if you don't sell the same thing. And a lot of those factors I was talking about a moment ago also kind of add affected my ability to regularly make the same thing over and over again. Okay, got it. Because uniformity, right? Even kind of environmental. Absolutely. That's a really good point and it's a brilliant answer. Round of applause for Michael, please. Thank you very much for the day. Great work. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. Best way to do it is Santa gear. So think of Santa Gear. Santa gear, like a sack and some boots. Santa gear. So it's not Aguz, it's Santaguia, the cheese that I'm talking about that goes with your sprouts. Stop sending me messages telling me that there are lots of recipes out there involving cheese and blue cheese and sprouts. This is a very specific cheese and it is a very specific combination and it is one of the most delicious things you will ever taste in your life. And yes, you can also add some pancetta or some chestnuts, but you do not need to once you have tasted it. And obviously you can't have it with every dish because it's quite overpowering. I sometimes have it on its own. I have a bowl of sprouts with a dollop of Santa gear cheese and some bacon, some pancetta or some lardons. The smoked lardons from Morrisons do the job and some. And if I was an Olympic swimmer, that would be my snack of choice. You can keep your four or 5000 calories. I could live off sprouts and blue. If you've just tuned in, I should probably apologize. This is LBC, the nation's premier commercial talk station. This isn't some sort of weird fever dream that you're having. I accidentally tuned into the north Norfolk digital recipe hour or something, but there it is, back to normal tomorrow when the mayor of London, Siddiq Khan, will be taking your calls here on LBC. You can get your question in early by heading to LBC dot co dot UK question and submitting your inquiry ahead of the phone in via the online forum. And then you can either come and ask it on, come and ask it on. You can come on and ask it yourself or I'll ask it on your behalf. But the more questions we get, the merrier the whole experience will be. Back to Mistria. 1235 is the time. Dane is in Stoke on Trent. Dane, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on, mate. So it's why whale and dolphin tails move up and down instead of side to side? Yep. So it's because the up and down spine movement is the ancestral condition for mammals. So way back in sort of early dinosaur era. So 200 plus million years ago, mammals, the way we have our limbs oriented under the body, it's more efficient for us to move that way with our spines moving up and down, rather than side to side, the way lizards do. So that kind of set the template for the mammal body plan. So when they started moving into the water after the dinosaurs were gone, that up and down movement stayed. And it's kind of been taken to the extreme. So you look at otters, they kind of do the same thing the way they swim. Yeah. So it's. It's a holdover from when they used to be land mammals, when they had feet. It's a holdover from when they had feet. Yep. Fantastic. When they had hooves, specifically. Um, yeah. Qualifications? I'm a science educator in the city museum. Well, that'll do nicely, won't it? Uh, round of applause for Dane. Thanks very much. What's in the city museum in Stoke? What? So is it mostly pottery stuff or have you got a lot of other stuff going on? There's a lot of pottery stuff. We do have a few fossils. I'm actually working on some mammal bones and fossils at the moment, including whale teeth, funnily enough, where was night? This one doesn't have a label on it. I'm actually in the museum at the moment. And this one, annoyingly, this one doesn't actually have the details on it, but I've got hippo tusks and they don't have any connection with Stoke on Trent, do they? Not presently, but there used to be hippos and elephants and things living all over the british isle. I know that. I just wondered if they'd been found locally. I think some of it is that they've been found by local collectors and then brought back to Stokes as well. And whereabouts is the museum for anyone in the area who wants to visit Tim Hanley? So, city centre. Great stuff. Nice one. Thank you, Dane. I gave him a round. I gave him a round. Lovely stuff, that. 1237 is the time Charles is in Bagshot. Charles. Question or answer? Question. Carry on. Now, in cricket, when you're watching a test match or whatever and the ball gets broken or lost or something, they replace the ball. But you can't replace it with a new ball. You have to replace it with a ball that's faced just about the same amount of overs. So I'm wondering how they manage that. It's a good question, isn't it? I mean, it's pretty obvious, isn't it? But we want to hear it definitive from someone who really knows what they're talking. They must. Just, in training, after someone's bowled 50 overs with a ball, they must say, go and put that one in the 50 over box. And when someone's boiled 100, they're going to go and put that one in the 100 over box. But we don't know, do we, Charles? I'm not sure. I've always tested out because I love Test cricket and I've just always been fascinating about how that's managed. That's a great question, actually. Well, that's it. I shall find out for you. So we need to know, how did. How do they manage the need? How do they feed the need? The need for speed? No, how do they feed the need for aged balls? Matron. Matron. No, don't stop. Thank you, Charles. Aged balls. How do they do it? How do they age their balls? How do cricketers age their balls? 0345. We're on a sticky wicket here. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number that you need. That's a lovely question. Well done, Charles. What was the name of the nice gentleman who just got the. Dan, wasn't it? No. Who was in Stoke on Trent? Dane. Dane. I knew. It's funny that it's a visual glitch there. Dan asked the question about the saints in Cornwall, didn't he? Michelle's in Newport. Michelle, question or answer? Question, please. James. Carry on, Michelle. I'm not quite sure how I follow the aged balls question, please. Don't be smutty on this program, Michelle. Well, you've actually been instrumental in the creation of this question. So back when you were doing your book tour, my partner and I came to visit and he got to ask a question. Which one did you go to? Which one were you in bath. Oh, lovely. That was a lovely one, wasn't it? It was. It was really nice. And so he raised a question and at the end of his question, his name was given and he went, oh, of course it is, yeah. And his name is John Smith. John Smith, yes, of course. So I was being sarcastic, suggesting that he'd used an alias. Yes, indeed. So that is my question. What is the source of the name John Smith being used as an alias? I think. I think it's quite obvious when you think about it, but I could be wrong. I think it's just because it was so common. If you look for the most common surname in the country, it would certainly have been Smith. At one point. If it is. If it still isn't. And the most common christian name was John. So if you needed a sort of a random name. John Smith would be. Would be the. Would be the one. Then you're not. You don't sound convinced. It's been difficult since then. James. He's had a lot of emotional trauma. I can only apologize. I am the real. I couldn't make him stay for the book signing or anything. He was offended. Was. He was profoundly offended by my flippancy. Well, pass on my apologies to John Smith, if that is indeed his real name. And I shall try and get. So why do we use John Smith as an alias? Yeah. And a default in every form that you get. Yeah, that's the word I was looking for. As a default. I like that. Thank you, Michelle. Pass on my best to John. 1241 is the time. Susan is in Inverness. Susan. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. It's an answer to the question about the blood groups. Blood groups are determined by chemical structures on the surface of red blood cells called antigens. And they're of different types. There are hundreds of different red cell antigens. Okay, so there's more than four blood groups then? Sorry? There's more than four blood groups. Technically speaking, yes. But we lump them together. No. The reason the ABO groups are important are because there are what are called naturally occurring antibodies. An antibody is something that will react chemically with an antigen and potentially cause breakdown of that red blood cell. None of this was known until the start of blood transfusions. And because nobody knew that there were different blood groups, blood from one person was given to another person. Sometimes it worked. Sometimes it killed them. So, looking at the chemical structure on the surface of the red blood cells of people who had unfortunate reactions to transfusion. The ab antigens were discovered. The blood group. I think you've gone off a bit on. I mean, it's fascinating and. But why do we have so many blood groups? Are you actually answering that question? Genetically, it's all determined by your genetics. The ABO groups are. Well, the old group is. But is there? No, I mean, is there a way we can come at it? Why isn't there just one? Do we know why there are more than one blood? Well, that's like saying, why isn't there just one eye color? Why isn't there just one hair color? Oh, okay. That's it. That's fine then. So they were enzymatic changes to the red blood cell. Love it. Caused by different genes. That'll do nicely qualifications? 34 years as a transfusion medicine specialist. So just think of it as any other genetic variation. Yes. And it would have, you know, had its roots in. So at some point. So you can give birth to someone who's got a different blood group from you. Absolutely. So it just happened back in the day, and then it's kind of conglomerated into. Not into four blood groups, but as you've explained, four groupings that are determined by whether or not you can add one to the other. Yeah, but that's why they are important, because you can have a transfusion, a fatal transfusion reaction, without ever having been exposed to blood in the past. The other surface, red cell surface antigens have to be stimulated by previous exposure, either during pregnancy or transfusion. Round of applause for Susan, please. Thank you, Susan. It's a good one this week. Quite a clever one. Barry's in Stockport. Barry. Question or answer? Question, sir. Carry on, Barry. When we vote, why do we vote in pencil? Well, you don't have to. Oh, you do. You don't have to. You can take your own pen with you if you want. No one will tell you off. If you took your own pen, they would bin your vote. No, I don't think they would, because it all went a bit. You kippy during the Brexit referendum. And lots of people did take their own pens because they thought. They thought that the. What became known later as the tofu eating Wokarati would turn up with big sacks of rubbers and rub out all their votes. Well, I'm not sure about that because. Nor am I, actually, but I'm prepared to have a row about it. Well, I'm pretty certain that when you go to vote. Well, I know for a fact that when you go to vote, you vote in pencil. Yeah, because that's what they provide. Yeah, but you can take. Well, it's like if you. If you put a note in your voting, they would be in it. No, I promise you, you're wrong. Right, I'm coming into battle now. I've been polite so far. You're wrong, mate. I don't think so. No. Well, how much do you want to bet? Um. Five pounds. Five pounds? I bet you 20. And now you're going to prove it. Well, we'll get the electoral commission to tell us. Or I'll google it live on the radio. You google it then. All right. Can you bring your own pen or pencil to the polling station? Pencils are provided inside the polling stations, but you can choose to bring your own pen or pencil to cast your vote. There is no legal requirement for ballot papers to be marked with a pencil. You vote. You would google that pretty quick, sir. I had it ready, didn't I? I'm not stupid. I think you. I think you're kidding me. I'm not. That is the ads. That is. That is. I think you're kidding me. No, that is. That is new and Newham council on their frequently asked questions page, you look at. How can you still be arguing with me? Because I don't believe you, sir. I've gone definitive. Round of applause for me, please. Never mind that. You cannot not believe me. Not only can you not argue with. You owe me 20 pounds. I said a fiver. I said 20 pounds. It's my show. Go and you go and google it. I'll wait, I'll send you a fiver. Have you got. Have you got a computer handy? No, I haven't, sir. I'm busy. Not really supposed to google things on this program, but on this occasion, seeing as there was money involved, I made an exception. And it's true. And the reason I know, Barry, because you haven't asked, but the reason I know is because I did look it up when lots of quite strange people were adamant that their referendum vote was going to be erased. And they said there was a thing. You don't remember it? There was like a little national craze almost, of saying, well, I'm taking my own pen to the polling station. Yeah, but I mean. And they were allowed to, because we did it on the show. And I remember finding out in that moment whether or not they were allowed to do it and saying to them, no, there is nothing to stop you from taking your pen, you silly person. Well, I'm not. I'm not convinced, because how do we know screaming Lord such every time he stood. How do we know that he was getting 20,000 votes? Plus every time, who. How do screaming Lord such. Well, he didn't get anything like that. He got. He got. He got low, low, low. Thousands at the top. Anyway, that is the end of that bit. That is the. That is definitely. No. I had to google it to prove it, because I told him I was right. I proved I was right. I shared my qualifications and he still didn't believe me. So that is when I did the. I went nuclear and I placed a financial bet and then I googled it. But the reason why I know was because of all people that later became known as Gammon were adamant at the time that they would have to vote in Penn, because otherwise I think Jacques Delore had an enormous rubber and he was going to be able to erase. Oh, forget it. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1251 is the time, if Barry and Stockport is still listening. I think that you were told to take your own pen to vote during COVID weren't you? And wendy's been in touch. She is a presiding officer, Barry, at polling stations, and she says you are allowed to use your own pen. It was hilarious when we had the referendum, as some people really believed that someone was going to erase their vote. And it's my unfortunate duty to remind you that those people won. Possibly an indication of what was likely to follow. The people who thought that their votes were going to be erased if they used pencil actually came out on top. But there we are. On with mystery out. How do cricketers age their balls? Why is John Smith the default name? Sort of. It's John Doe in America, isn't it? Oh, no, that's different. Don't text me. I've done Barry's pencil question. Why does a bay leaf neutralize sprout smells? And why are so many places in Cornwall named after saints? Linda is in Finchley. Question or answer? Linda. Answer, please, Jane, carry on. It's the celtic question. And all the places in Cornwall. Cornwall being named after saints? Yeah. My understanding is that celtic Christianity spread to Great Britain from middle of Europe, from somewhere probably in Switzerland. It came from the east and it sort of spread across the continent, reaching Great Britain. And then these were kind of really holy men who were some type of very spiritual Christianity, and they wanted to get far away from civilization, as far to the west as they could. So lots and lots of sort of celtic saints. Well, they were monks originally, but then the definition of saints has kind of become more. Yeah, but that doesn't explain why so many place names in Cornwall. You're just saying that Cornwall had a disproportionate number of hermits. Yeah, but then they would have had monasteries, they would have had cells, they would have had places where. So the theory is that they were more ecclesiastical establishments in Cornwall than there were elsewhere in the country? Yes. Or maybe in just single cells. And I think the pattern is spread up the whole west coast of Great Britain and maybe even into Brittany in France, where, you know, you get the saints. Like, St David's in Wales is right on the far west coast, isn't it? Yeah. I think there's some islands off Scotland, single islands, where monks used to go and live. Oh, you're winning me around now. I was incredibly skeptical 90 seconds ago. I had. You should have seen my face. I look like Lee Anderson. I was incredibly. You needed to calm down. I did. I was quite cross with Barry. I don't know. I don't think. I don't think anybody. I think I got away with it. I don't think anybody noticed. It was great fun. I don't think anybody noticed. So, yeah. That would make some sense, wouldn't it? The furthest away from the point of arrival for cleric seeking an ascetic lifestyle. That's the one, yes. So all that west coast is very celtic and then, of course, eventually over to Ireland. But you're on. Yeah. Qualifications? Masters in theology. Cool. Blimey. Get you? Round of applause. It is. Thank you. That's lovely. I like that. Makes sense to me, as well. And there would just have been more churches and more monasteries and more individual sort of quasi hermits setting up in places that subsequently became. Became known after them. There might be more to it than that and it might be a question that doesn't have a definitive answer, but that has. That has absolute credibility. 1254 is the time. John is in Watts and. Well, what? Standwell? Hi. Yes. Hi, James. How do you pronounce what stand? Has it got a d in the middle of it, or is it just Wattstanwell? Yes. What stand? Well, what stand? Well, yes. What's that? Where's that come from, then, as a name? Do we know? Well, that's another question I've got to answer now. It is. Sorry about that. That it appears there's a number of answers, but the most popular one is there is a bridge that goes over the River Derwent here, which is part of the a six now. Right. And it was the toll bridge. And allegedly that one of the. One of the guys who operated the toll bridge was a guy called Walter Stonewall. Well, that is absolutely. Round of applause for that one. You've gone to qualifications. I live there. Walter Stanwell. Walter. Walter. And the answer you rang in to give. Well, can I just say that the famous resident we had here was Ellen McArthur, who sailed around the world in her yacht so many years ago. There you go. So, cricket balls. Yes. Basically every cricket match finishes, but they don't always finish at the end of a cricket ball's life. Yes. So in a 50 over match, for example, if a team is bowled out after 30 overs, then the ball is put away in a box that's marked 30 overs. Yes. Then in future, if the ball goes missing because it's been hit out of the ground, for example. Then the people at the ground will give to the third umpire a box that contains 30 other balls, the one that they can find closest to however many overs have already been played. So there'll be quite a few boxes in the pavilion. Yes. Yes. So he will take a box out and the umpires will look at the balls and pick the one that looks like it's in the most similar condition to the ball. So they keep an eye on the ball. Does the umpire look at the ball in normal play to keep an eye on how presumably? Yes. I can't definitively answer that. The best example of this being done is probably in Test match cricket, where often the bowling team, when they're struggling a little bit, will complain that the ball has gone out of shape. And then the umpire will bring out a gauge and then measure the ball to see if it's circular or not. And if it isn't, then again, they'll call for a new box of balls out and they will compare the two. Nature. I do know. I've actually seen that happen, now that you mention it. Qualification. I'm sure Charles has as well. Who asked the question. Qualifications. I watch a lot of cricket. I love it. Fantastic. And you get another round of applause. Thank you. Very rare moment, actually, Watson. Well, what a beautiful story. 1257 is the time Milan is in Paris. Millenn, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. We haven't got long. We haven't got long. Brussels sprouts. Why do they smell when they cook? Because they release hydrogen sulfide. When they cook, what does the bay leaf do? Bay leaves both concrete acid, which helps neutralize the smell and also release essential oils, which I think combat, which also compete. So it's a chemical reaction and simple perfumery. Yes. Qualifications? Chemist and cook. Round of applause for millen. Great work. Makes sense, actually. And finally, Wes in Tewkesbury. Question or answer? Wes. Yes. Hello. Answer. Carry on, quick. We've only got 33 seconds. Haha. It's to do with Cornwall. It's got it wrong. No. All the christians were sailed down the Irish Sea from Scotland, Ireland and Wales. They'd arrive at Cornwall on the north coast, get out the boat, walk across Cornwall, get on another boat and then sail down to France, to Lauderers and Santiago de Costa Pala. Spain. Yeah, that one. Santiago. And they basically walk across Cornwall and go, this is nice place. Let's start a church. They wouldn't go through Devonshire. So it was to do. So it was to do with sea routes, really? Yeah. Basically, you can have qualifications. All right. I love to go to Cornwall. Me holidays. I go three or four times a year. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for you as well. I'm not cancelling out Linda. I don't know who my friend favorites. Can I give it to the brute? It's getting harder every week. Sheila's waiting. Linda. Give it to Linda, please. The religious masters. I just liked. I liked her. Explanation. If you missed any of today's show, you can listen back on catch up on global player, where you can also pause and rewind. Live radio. All LBC shows are there to catch up on, as well as all of Global's live radio stations. Pause and rewind. Live radio on global player, where you're always in control. Of course, Tom Dean's new podcast will be on there very, very soon. On the 25 January. Tom Dean Metal machine. Pause and rewind. Live radio on global player, where you're always in control. Download for free from your App Store or head to globalplayer.com. Coming up at four, it's Tom Sawbrick. But now on LBC, it's Sheila Fogarty.