Why do I traditionally take my husband's name?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after twelve is the time and a rather unexpected mystery hour, given that we were legislating for a rather longer queen's speech and perhaps hoping for a little more detail. But no matter. There will no doubt be plenty of analysis and commentary coming up later in the day on LBC. We will. Do you know what this is? Have you worked it out yet? This is the last mystery hour of the decade. Not the last mystery hour of the year, not the last mystery hour of the month, not the last mystery hour of the week, but the last mystery hour of the decade. I kid you not. It's remarkable that I wonder we should dig out when the first one was. Anyway, I digress. And you may not have any idea what it is. If you do know what it is and you want to get involved, now's your chance. Zero. 345-606-0973 we didn't take calls for the last half an hour or so of the last hour, which, for reasons I've never fully understood, often means that it's a little bit slower to get things started once we reopen the switchboard. Take that as a. As a temptation, perhaps even an inducement. So this is what it is, okay. There is a question bubbling away in the back of your mind to which you are very keen to find an answer. You perhaps could find that answer by looking it up in a reference book or even, God forbid, employing a search engine. But because you, like me, believe in knowledge as an end in itself, not just as a means to an end. Knowing stuff is good, then you want to offer somebody else the opportunity to share with you and everybody else listening to this program something that they know. To wit, when you ring in with an answer, I'll ask you what your qualifications are and you will say to me something like, oh, well, I am the professor of public understanding at the University of Brighton. Public understanding of science at the University of Brighton, James. Or you may say, I saw it on the telly last night, bruv, and they are both equally valid answers to the question. So when I say, what are your qualifications? You don't have to, you know, divvy up a bag of gymnastics award for, or a cycling proficiency at Staport police station in 1986. It could just be the reason why you know something. It's my job, it's my hobby, it's my life. The number remains the same whether you're ringing in with a question or an answer, and that's it really? I think we shall, um, see how we get on. The proof of the pudding is, as ever in the eating. And if you want to bring a question with a particularly christmasy flavour, then that would be doubly welcome. Of course, today I did once conduct mystery hour in the Christmas season while dressed as Santa Claus, but I don't remember that person. I'm such a serious, level headed, earnest individual these days that I find it very hard to remember the mischief making, immature 40 something man who thought it was a good idea to dress up as Santa Claus while on the radio. Ho hum. Chris is in Epsom. Chris, question or answer a simple question. Artists get royalties, or possibly the writers on records. I want to know who gets the royalties on live Aids? Band aids. Do they know it's Christmas now? Who gets the royalties now? Yes. Well, the charity still exists, doesn't it? Is it? Didn't. It didn't. Yeah. Didn't it fall into comic relief or something like that? Yeah, but they said last night on the. On the radio. Yeah. That it's raised 150 million pounds. But I wonder who gets the royalties now? If the charity still gets it or if a particular person. Oh, it won't be so you. Crikey, I'd be amazed, because do you know who wrote it? I would imagine it was Bob Geldorf and mid year. Correct. It was. But if they're getting money for it, mate, I'll give you. I shall buy you a thousand mince pies. That's what I thought as well. Staggered. So, okay. Just more of a confirmatory referendum, perhaps, than an actual binary one. Where do the royalties go? I'm 99% certain that they will still go to whatever charity has evolved from the original Band Aid. But it's an interesting question, so we will try to find out for you. Eight minutes after twelve is the time you are listening to. What is it? Moyles was mocking me for yesterday. I've never noticed. I say eight minutes after twelve is the time. I don't say eight minutes after twelve. That is the time, do I? Apparently I do, yeah. There's even a drinking game. John's in Barnett. John, question or answer? Question. Carry on. Why do we put a penny or a coin in a Christmas pudding? For luck, isn't it? Well, I don't know. That's why I'm reading you. Yeah. Whoever finds it is lucky. No, but where does that originate from? Sorry? We're doing chicken and egg. We're doing chicken and egg. Not what does it mean when you find it, but why did we put it in in the first place? Yeah, I quite like that actually. Don't try and answer it yourself. Why not? You always do that. Yeah, you're still listening, so you must like it, you see. So what you're doing, you're ringing a feature to contribute to it because you love it. And now you're criticizing one of the reasons why you love it in the first place. I'd like an answer from someone else. Why? Because you always try and answer the questions. I usually get them right, mate. Do you want a right answer or do you want an answer from someone else? I want an answer. Well, if Professor Howells listen, I'd rather answer Christmas pudding. Well, it's got nothing to do with science putting coins in Christmas puddings. But isn't he the professor of like general knowledge or something? Or public knowledge? No, that's me. It's nine minutes after twelve dance in Bristol. Dan, question or answer? It's a question. Carry on. If you went back in time and were to draw a map of the earth, obviously back in dinosaur times and whatnot, you would just see continents and land masses and islands and whatnot. Yes, but at what point in time would we first have ever seen a man made land border? That's quite a strong question. By man made you mean man drawn or do you mean actual infrastructure? Well, as in an arbitrary division between two defined countries. So it wouldn't necessarily be policed? Well, no, but it's not. I'm not being a silly beggar, I was just sort of thinking of the great wall of China or. No, no, no, just. Just a line on a map that denotes two countries is one from the other that isn't just the sea and the land. Because like I said, if you go back far enough, you wouldn't have had lines on a map, you would just have had the outline of the continents. And you can still find borders, geographical borders, whether it's a mountain range or as you suggest, a river. But you mean. So if you look at Sykes Picot in the Middle East, I mean, literally a French and an english diplomat with pencils and rulers drew borders on a map. But you're only going back to the 19th century for that. Yeah, I love it, I love it, yeah. The first ever arbitrary human drawn border between two separate sovereign landmasses. Yeah, exactly. I want to know the answer. So do I now. And there must be an answer as well, isn't there? I would have thought, I assume so. Unless it happened so far. Well, okay, we'll try and find out the first ever man made land border. But not in the context of infrastructure, necessarily, just. Just so you would walk from one country to another because somebody said so. It's so weird when you think about it like that, isn't it? Alan is in Northumberland. Question or answer, Alan? Question, James. Carry on, mate. Why are supermarket ceilings so high? Pardon? Well, when you go to a supermarket these days, the ceilings are 20 odd foot high, but nobody could ever reach that high. And actually, to make the lights drop down from the top of the ceiling. When did you first notice this? A couple of weeks ago. And this would be a new supermarket, a new age. Yeah. I don't have a mental image, Alan. Well, you've got, you got one of these big hyper markets, big supermarkets, and they've got really high ceilings, which they don't need. I use any of the space. Well, it must be psychology, doesn't it? It must make us spend more money. Oh, most things are. Just. Just bear with me a minute, because my local budgens doesn't count. That's. That's just a glorified corner shop. The Waitrose on the high road, similarly, is just one of the little ones. So my local massive sainsburys, I walk in, I've never looked up. I've never looked up, Alan. Yeah, but these are, you know, it's these sort of out of town big supermarkets are purpose built to be supermarkets. Yeah, no, I know my big. My local Sainsbury's isn't out of town, but it's one of the big ones and I. Yeah, all right. I mean, it's one of those questions that I can't decide whether it's brilliant or awful. At the moment, I'm leaning towards brilliant supermarket ceilings. Why are they so high? Zero. 345-606-0973 John's in Dundee. John, question or answer? Hi. So, question. It's a Christmas question. Why do we market penguins with Christmas? Because Santa lives at the North Pole, but the penguins are from the south, so I knew you were going to do that. And that's the answer to your question, isn't it? Is that because people think penguins come from the North Pole? I don't know if it's just like, lazy, but where does it come from? Is it lazy, traditional kind of thinking? I don't understand. Well, of course you do. You already know the answer, clearly, that they are designed to convey the chilly atmosphere in which Father Christmas inhabits for the other 364 days of the year. Yeah, but what about that bigger thing? They're not that big a thing about Chris. No one really thinks of penguins when you say Christmas, but they're all over the place. I'm seeing them more and more, mate. You've got a bit of an obsession with penguins, mate. Or either that or they're following you. There is no particularly strong bond between Christmas and penguin. I'm just going to take a show of hands in the studio. There's no such thing as a Christmasy penguin, is there? You see them in the shops all over. It's like sun catchers, plush teddies. I mean, I just. I can't escape it. But then the answer is, because they come from a cold place and so does Father Christmas. There is no other admissible answer on this one. I just think it's lazy geography. Well, it might be lazy geography, but you can't ring in to complain about lazy geography. This is mystery hour, not flipping rent a rant or have a moan hour. That's every other hour of the week on the program. 1215 is the time. This is LBC. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call. Oh. Three, four, five, six, zero, six, zero, nine, seven, three, twelve, seventeen is the time. Where do the royalties go now from? Do they know it's Christmas? Did you know that Ethiopia is the home of one of the oldest christian communities in the world? So that when they asked in that song, do they know it's Christmas time at all? The answer would almost certainly have been yes. All right. Not as interesting as I thought it was, then I thought I might get a round of applause for that. Rounds of applause are on offer if you can answer that question. Or indeed what for me, is one of the finest mystery out questions of all time. When was the first hand drawn or man drawn? Drawn land border. That is an arbitrary line, not a river or a mountain range, between two countries? Two separate countries. That's a brilliant question. I really hope that there is an answer to it and indeed that we find it similarly. Things that you've never noticed before, but once they're pointed out, it's a thing that makes you go, hmm, why are supermarket ceilings so high? And I don't know that the christmasy penguin question actually counts, but I shall leave it on the board, never the less. Jim is in reading. Question or answer, Jim. Hello? It's an answer. James. Hang on. Jim, breaking news for you. We've just been told that the department for exiting the European Union will be wound up once the UK leaves the EU on the 31 January, as I predicted, on Monday. Carrie. Fantastic. Happy days. Go on, answer. Which question are you answering? It is on the royalties for. Do they know it's Christmas? Oh, yes. I have just looked on the PRS portal, which is an app that anyone who's a member can look on. No pose to look stuff up. But I will allow you to do this because you need to be qualified in order to access that particular app. Exactly. I was just double checking. I was right before ringing in. And unfortunately, I thought as well, because it's a high price you're paying. You owe that chap a thousand mince pies, I'm afraid, because it's 25% major, 25% Bob Geldof, 50% random publishing company. Are you winding me up? Not at all. Not the band aid trust or something like that? Apparently not. Perhaps they pass it on. They must. From what I can gather. I'm not giving any mince pies over yet. So, according to the PRS, the performing rights Society, the royalties that the song writing royalties from. Do they know it's Christmas? Go to the songwriters. Correct. 25%. Your 25% gold, 50% random publishing company. That I won't name on air. No, no, don't. But it is just a recognizable publishing company. Yes. I mean, crikey, I'd be a mate. Well, this is awkward, isn't it? I'm afraid so. And you know what? They even got a distribution this very morning. So they could be. They could be spending it as we speak, or they could give it all to charity as a matter of course. Every single year. And this is more of an accountancy issue than a charitable one, but we'll find out. Qualifications? They probably do give it away. Being the generous liberal. You'd hope so. Being the people that wrote a song to raise money for charity. More pertinently. I don't care about their politics. What. What are your qualifications? You kind of. Already. I've been a musician for my entire life. That'll do nicely. Round of applause for Jim. Well, not your entire life, Jim. What were you playing in the cradle? Yeah, actually. Okay, you got me there. But that's why they paid me the big. As soon as I could stand. Good man. 20 minutes after twelve is the time Mickey is in Islington. Question or answer, Mickey? Question. Carry on. How much does the world weigh? I quite like that as well, actually. And I'm not talking about because. Believe in Brexit or anything like that. It's just like, how much does it actually weigh? How much does the world weigh? How on earth would you find out? I know. Because, like, obviously, back in time when we didn't have all these buildings and things were still there. Yeah, but the world won't have changed its weight much, if at all, over the years. Well, the only thing that would have added to the weight of the world is the. Well, I was about to say like bones and skeletons of all the dead people. But considering that every body is going to be made up of energy that was already on it. No, no, the weight of the world will be the same as it always was. But what about when. Don't argue with me, Mickey, don't argue. I've been thinking about this. I've been moving my room around because all space is really heavy. No, but it can't be, because the everything that's on the Earth now was on the Earth before, but in a different form. Yeah, but in science, different matter forms to create other matter. And that's heavier in density. Is it one of us. One of us is out of our comfort zone now and I've got a feeling it's like water becoming ice. Yes, sort of. I don't know. But have you ever thought about. I have. No. I'm interested in how much the world weighs, but I don't think it would be any different now from it was when. You know, when the old queen was on the throne. 22 minutes after twelve is the time Rob's in little standing. Rob, question or answer? I've got an answer for you, James. Bring it on, Robert. It is about why supermarkets are so tall. So we're accepting the parameters of the question. The premise of the question are we? Yep. So they are built very high and the reason is quite simple, really, is that if they need to expand in the future, it's far cheaper to build a mezzanine floor so they can then put a second floor in the supermarket. That is to buy extra land to build. I have seen that happen. Not necessarily at a supermarket, but another out of town shopping centre that was expanding its range. I think it was a furniture shop and it opened a new floor for beds. Yes. Yep. So the biggest supermarkets, obviously the top three are. They all do it, by fact, so they can put like a clothing department upstairs if they need to. Well, I know qualifications. I sell. I mean, engineering company that sells the steel construction industry. Well, that's pretty perfect, isn't it, as a qualification? Because you need a steel to build a supermarket. Absolutely. And in fact, the bigger, the bigger. You can write this down, Rob. The bigger the supermarket, the more steel you'll need. Absolutely. Round of applause for Rob. Thank you. James is in Cambridge. James, question or answer? There's a question. Please, James. Carry on, mate. So, being Christmas time, everyone overeats. You indulge in all the nice things. And obviously everyone puts on a bit of extra timber. Yes. Why do certain body parts not get fat, such as your eyeballs. Your eyeballs. So you don't see all sort of. Why don't. Why doesn't fat get deposited? Because there isn't any fat in your eyeballs. Or things like your tongue, then? Similar, yes, but cells are made of lipids, which are fats. And why aren't there excess, excessive fat deposits in these areas? Because there aren't any fat deposits in your eyeballs or your tongue. So they wouldn't. The more fat that's in your body, none of it's going to be in the areas where there aren't any fat deposits, are there? No fat deposits, though? No. How do you know? Okay. Aidan Zincisyk. Aidan. Question or answer? Hello, James. Question, please. Yes, in theaters or tv studios. Why is the green room called the green room? I know this. Do you? I think I do, yeah. It is because the light would be green in the room. Because that would not cast, for some reason, onto the stage. Really? Yeah. You sound a bit skeptical, but aren't green rooms usually in the back, nowhere near the stage? Well, these days they are, but in the olden days, the green room was right next to the stage. Was essentially the backstage sort of area. Oh, okay. And so the light in there would not impinge upon the stage. They were painted green, I think, and they. And they also had a. I may have got this wrong. It's something to do with light. Okay. Are you going to accept that? I don't know if I would actually. Kill me with loads of confidence here. No. But I'm even running out of my own confidence, which doesn't happen to me very often. All right, we will find out. Why is the green room called a green room? Okay, thanks. Good man. Bills in Colchester, Bill. Question or answer? Question, please, mate. Carry on. Well, I know the queen ain't allowed to vote, but how far down the royal family would that go? Like, would Andrew be allowed vote? Or Edward or. I quite like that question. I don't know. No, I don't know either. What's the reasoning for not letting the queen have a vote? Do we know? No, I got a clue. It'd be something to do with Charles the first, probably, won't it? Probably. Your knowledge would be better than mine on that. But how far down the royal family tree. Does Eugenie and Beatrice be a letter? This is a great question. Let's find out for you. Thank you very much. Who's the most senior royal that is allowed to vote would be an easy way of doing it. Or the most junior royal that isn't? Zero. 345-606-0973 so we've got the man made land border. We've got the supermarket ceilings. That's been done, actually. We've got the silly question about penguins. How much does the world weigh? That's the kind of thing you might get asked at a sandhurst entrance exam. Actually, no, it's not. It's the kind of thing you might get asked at an Oxbridge entrance exam, because what you need to do is come up with a way to work out how you would. How could you weigh the world? I've got an answer. You'd need an enormous bath. And you put the world in the bath and see how much water was displaced and use that to calculate how much the world weighed. But that's probably not very plausible. Why are green rooms in theatrical and cinematic circles called green rooms? And how far down the family tree does the queen's inability to vote reach? Zero? 345-606-0973 is the number to call if you can answer any of those, or indeed, if you have a question of your own. Oh, and the first question we forgot to put up. Why did. Why did we put coins in Christmas puddings? Where does that tradition come from? I know that the finder of the coin is supposed to be lucky, but where did that come from? 27 minutes after twelve is a time Andy is in Greenwich. Andy, question or answer? Yeah, hi there, James. Yeah. I just wondered if you played an instrumental piano bit of music to an animal that was sad, like Chopin's funeral march. Like, would it feel sad or happy? But music, would it still happen? How would you know? How could you find out? How could. How could you know? You could do some sort of brain scan. But would it also be the same for an alien from outer space? Would they feel music being ridiculous? You're presuming the existence of aliens. If there were aliens, would they. It was borderline stupid before you brought aliens into it. Andy, I'm sure you can test if an animal was. Yeah, an animal, maybe, but again, I don't. Yes. Well, how would you measure it? Dogs get sad, don't they? But when they're missing their master or something, would they get sad? Could they get an emotional trigger from a piece of music? I'm sure they could play. Don't they play music to cows to make them milk? Well, that's your answer, isn't it? That's your answer. But do they feel happy? Well, no, you can't start specifying what emotions they feel. The question ultimately is, do animals have an emotional reaction to external, the same emotional oral stimuli? Well, I don't know that you'd be able to establish that, but we might be able to find out. I've got a lovely Christmas card off Doctor dog, so he might be. Vieri might be able to provide an answer to that, although not necessarily, I think would be the caveat I'd put in place. It's 1229. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Selection of questions all in need of answers. But before the break, before the news headlines, let's go to Dan, who's in Bromley. Dan, question or answer? It's an answer, James. Carry on, mate. It's not about the guy said, you put Christmas weight on. Why? There are only certain body parts get fatter. That point. It was quite an interesting question because I thought he was. But then he said, why doesn't your tongue get fat? And it all fell apart. Yeah, well, basically, you don't ever. You don't gain new fat cells, you have fat cells and the fatty you are, the more fat deposits inside these cells. So if a certain body part doesn't have fat cells, it won't get deposited with lipids. He was quite right when he says lipids. Clever version of what I said is that there aren't any fat. There aren't any fat deposits in your tongue or your eyeballs, so they can't get fatter. No, that's it. I mean, also, genetics determines where your body gets fat first. I mean, with me, it's always the gut, unfortunately. Yeah. So, you know, some people get it beneath their muscles, like you get the hard belly, some people get above their muscles, the soft belly. Very true. What are your qualifications, Dan? A very sad nutritional therapist. Is that a good advert or a bad advert for your profession? Well, there's lots of reasons why, mate. There's lots of reasons why. There's a round of applause. Thank you. There you go. 12:30 is the time. Tim Humphrey, how's your headlines? This is LBC. Got a steward's inquiry on a question rather than an answer, which I think might be a mystery hour first. But it has come from Kidderminster, which means I will pay it more heed than I would if it had come from anywhere else on this planet. Ken from Kidderminster writes, it shouldn't be how much does the planet Earth weigh, James? Rather, it should be what is the mass of planet Earth? Since weight is a computation involving mass and gravity in all its variations, mass is constant, but weight varies according to gravity. James's solution of putting the earth. Oh, Ken, don't spoil it, mate. I'm another son of Kiddemin's. James's solution of putting the earth into a bath full of water is wrong. The earth would simply displace its own volume. To measure its mass, the earth would have to float. The mass of the volume of water displaced by the floating object is equal to the mass of the floating object. Blimey, Ken, that's a strong play. So the question. I'm going to give you a round of applause and I'm going to give you another one for being from Kidderminster. And I'm going to change the parameters of the question, what is the mass of the earth? I wonder whether it is indeed knowable. 1235 is the time Chloe is in Chelmsford. Chloe, question or answer? Answer. Carry on, Chloe. So, in regards to the question about the dog, the behavioral reaction to music. Oh, yes, you'll be very surprised. Actually, animals reacting to my. Currently, my friend has already done well, she's finished her dissertation in literally this, except on horses. Really? What do horses respond to? Music. Yes. So you'll be surprised. Aren't you telling me? I would. In her dissertation, the horses reacted to rock and heavy metal music much better than classical music. What do you mean by much better? How do you measure a horse's happiness? Heart rate. So as horses are flight. Well, generally flight animals, when their sympathetic innovations kick in, their heart rate will increase, their respiration will increase. That's obviously very, very similar to other animals as well. And that means they're happy? No, when their heart rate increases, it means they're uncomfortable. It means they're unhappy. Yeah. So rock music would slow down a horse's heart while classical music would speed it up? Yeah. It made them uncomfortable. Yeah. And of course, if they're very, very sad, you can tell because of the long. No. Yeah. They feel very, very uncomfortable. You can tell. You can tell by their facial. What was the title of your friend's thesis? I'm not sure of the title. She's not with. She's not with you at the moment? No. No, she's not. Because if it had been her, she would have got a ray liotta, we would have given her the highest accolade because if you've done it, if someone asked a question about do mammals respond to music? And you've just finished your thesis, what. What level? PhD or undergraduate? I'm undergraduate. Okay. I'm an undergraduate, she's postgraduate. So this. This was a postgraduate thesis. A master's, actually. There's also many, many, many. How many studies? Many, many, many. There's loads of studies on this. So if you just go on science direct. No, I just need a yes or a no. And the answer is yes. Music does have an emotional impact on mammals. 100%. And there's many different pieces of science. How many evidence support that? Many, many. Round of applause for Chloe. Thank you. Many, many. Clap what's that size of me say? Many, many. 1238 is the time Neil is in Surbiton. Neil, question or answer? It's a question. James. Happy Christmas to you. Thank you. What I'd like to know is, I know Prince Albert bought Christmas cheese over Germany in the victorian times. Yeah. Thank you. Why did the Germans have Christmas trees in the first place? It's the origin of Christmas trees. Yeah, basically, yeah. I quite like that. Isn't it something to do with the druids? But then that wouldn't be german, would it? No, necessarily. All right, I bet there's a. Bet there's a pagan thrown in there somewhere. That's what I meant. More than jewish pagans. But I mean the germanic tribes. Trees, trees, trees. Dryads. Trees. It's not coming. It's not coming, Neil. It's not happening. Yeah, I've got a feeling. Someone told me once, but I think they were blagging me. But it's got something to do. The german pagans sacrificing people. Well, I never. But that's why I wanted to check. By hanging them from trees? By hanging them from trees? Burning them on against trees. Using humans instead of baubles. Yes. Human baubles. Human baubles. I got all their albums. Neil, I will do my damnedest to get you an answer at 1239. Origin of Christmas tree is also the origin of putting pennies in Christmas puddings. The members of the royal family who are not allowed to vote. How far down the line of succession does it go? Why are green rooms green? And how much does the world weigh? What's the mass of the world? We also have questions about penguins. And when was the first land border drawn by human hand? Zero. 345-606-0973 we're not going to get an answer to that. I've got a horrible feeling miles is in Brighton, Miles. Question or answer? Good afternoon. It's a question. Go on. My question is, how many taps would have to be run in one city before the water just stopped running? Oh, man. That's not a proper question. That's a proper question. Not a proper question. Well, it's a question to me. Well, it might be a question, but. I mean, it's just not. What wouldn't even be true in. In two cities. Would it would depend on pressure. It would. Well, do you know where the waters. Really. I'm just gonna go a bit partridge. Now. But this is information you'll thank me for one day. Do you know where the finest tap water in the world is? What city? No, where is it? Vienna. Vienna. Vienna, right. I had some lovely tap water in Austria. Well, there you go. There you go. Even better when you get to Vienna. Very hard to sell mineral water in Vienna because the stuff coming out of the taps is so delicious. That is a problem, isn't it? Yeah, it is, actually. You wouldn't want to open a mineral water shop in Vienna. But I don't know that. Your question is improving by the application of banter. No, but, yes. It must happen, though, right? So many taps will run. No, but how would you run out of water? It's a reservoir. It's miles away. Yeah, yeah, yeah, but. But how long have the taps. It wouldn't be. How many taps? Because theoretically, you could leave one tap on for long enough and then you'd run out. It's not a good question. It is. It's not a proper question. The parameters of the question are not. Are not proper. I'll put it on the board because it's Christmas, but it's rubbish, man. Absolutely rubbish. Absolute crud. Possibly the worst question ever in the history of question. How many taps would have to be running before you ran out of water? Honestly? 1241, Ian. 1241. Where's it all gone? We've got. We got 20 minutes left. Less than 20 minutes. And we've got loads of questions to answer, and we're wasting our time with questions about taps. Ian's in Guildford. Question or answer, Ian? It's an answer, James. Yes, I'm querying the answer. I'm not having queries on my program today. Is it a steward's inquiry? It is, really? Because I don't believe that the supermarket ceilings are as high as they are, because there might be further development. I believe it's to do with the structural design of the buildings. The structural what? Of malarkey? Design of the buildings? Well, no, but that's a bit like saying why? They like saying, because they are. No, if you want a wide space, then you need a greater depth in your beam above which you really need a structural designer to fully explain it to you because I'm not qualified for that. Although I did study structures. But I can have pillars. You could do. Then you're putting marks. You've got pillars all over the floor. Whereas in supermarket you want big open spaces. I've got pillars in my local waitrose because there's one bit by the milk where you have to go. You can only just squeeze a trolley. Trolley. You can only just squeeze a trolley through the gap between the milk and the pillar near the. But just between the milk and the wine at the back of the shop. But that may be pillar. Pillar, not pillow. But that's because of the design. If you think about. But I know a shop that had a high ceiling and it was on one floor and now it has a mezzanine. I actually know the shop. I can see it in my mind's eye. Yes. There's one here in Guildford as well. Well, that's why they build them so high. I don't think that was the original reason as to why they build them so high. It's because if you use high, if you use a higher roof space, you can use smaller structural members to create that. Oh no, you sound clever than using a deep beam, which you've then got to get services through. What are your qualifications? I've been in construction 40 years and I'm a member of the Chartered Institute of Buildings. Ah, okay. Well, that changes things slightly. So you're saying you can't, you can't stop it. You've set me off, you silly man. So what you're saying is that in order to have that breadth of a building, the length and the breadth of a building, you have to be high because of structural tensions. You do? Yes. I don't quite understand why. Because surely if I. Okay, whoa whoa whoa. Because you're then getting into things called the. Gosh, you're taking me back so many years. The ixx axis and the y axis and the design of a beam. Yes. Okay then. Okay. Okay. No, wait wait wait. Right. To get the width of space. Okay, so I've built a huge building, a hanger type structure. Right? Which has to be. Which you say has to be really high in order to be that long and wide. Yes. And now, hang on. Now I'm going to raise the floor using concrete, which means I could have it really long and wide with a low ceiling. Yes, but you've still got the depth of the beam in the overall structure. Yeah, but the ceiling is low. The ceilings like that. Wait there. Wait. Don't go away. Ian. Rob's in Hampshire. Rob, what's going on? Right. Volume inside a building is easy to control temperature because of air volume over movement of people, and to regulate in temperature, so they have more of a constant temperature. So the bigger the building, the easier it is to regulate the temperature and cheaper to regulate. Why? Just because it's easier to control cool and heat up. But you don't, and it maintains the heat. You don't necessarily render Ian wrong, do you? It could be both. It could be that the structural requirement is there, and one of the benefits of that structural requirement is the. Is the air circulation and the attendant heat related issues. Yes, but there is something. Back to Ian. Back to Ian. Back to Ian. To achieve that, I don't disagree with what gentleman is saying, but to achieve that, you need to move air around, and you'll need larger diameter duct work to carry the volume of air around the building and take out exhausted air and bring in new air. Yeah. Okay, so you're both right. Except, Rob, you're describing. I know you're both. I'm really confused now. And I've just had a complaint about you, Ian. Here you go. It's from Alex, who's in Guildford. He says he's lying. There is no mezzanine in Guilford. I won't take the name of it, tell you the name of the supermarkets. But it begins with an s. I mean, it's an odd thing for Alex to get excited about, isn't it? Although you should see the amount of complaints coming in claiming that Vienna's not even in the top ten. I'm completely wrong. It's. It's the shop in New Malden. Oh, my God. Fake news, Alex. Fake news from Ian. Well spotted, Alex. Okay. But it doesn't change the nature of your answer. I'm gonna give. Unfortunately, I go to all these blooming symphony. I'm gonna give you the round of. The round of applause, Ian. But I'm also gonna give one to rob, because it's Christmas and I'm feeling like Santa Claus. Thank you. You're both very welcome, Ian. First, ho, ho, ho. And Rob. Ho, ho, ho. And also, Alex, for the very good fact checking there and pointing out there is no metzanine in Guildford. Oh, I'm exhausted after all that clapping. We better take a break. Coming up at one on LBC Sheila Fogarty for the second time in nine weeks, the queen delivers a speech outlining the conservative government's proposed laws. This time, a new political era begins. Sheila Fogarty on LBC Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. 1250 is the time. Mystery hour is nearly over and I can't quite understand how it feels as if we've only just started. My thanks to Gav, who has tweeted to say the current debate on at Mister James Ob about why supermarket ceilings are so high. Would you believe as I started reading that tweet, my computer went down. Anyway, he was very kind and I agree. I thought it was hilarious as well. The current debate on at Mister James Ob's mystery hour about why supermarket ceilings are so high is the most brilliantly ridiculous bit of radio I've heard in a while. Martin is in Maidstone. Martin, question or answer? It's an answer. Please carry on, Martin, to the green room. Question. Oh, yes. It's to make people who tend to be nervous going on tv and in the theater to relax them, to reduce anxiety. It's a levolutionary psychology issue because people feel more comfortable in the sight of green pastures and green trees, because it reminds them of plentiful food and so forth. I thought that I remembered why. I thought it was to do with light, because limelight is relevant. They used to use lime to light up theatres, which gave a slightly greenish tinge to proceedings. So they painted the greener in green so that the actors could adjust more easily when they were coming on and off stage. Well, I can. That's where we get in the limelight from as well as a guest. Often the guests would ask the producers what the reason was and that was always the reason they gave. This was in tv land? Yes. So that's your qualification? Yes. I've done hundreds of tv programs. In what capacity? I was a judge on robot wars, on scrap heap challenge, tomorrow's World, Sky News, BBC News, cool beans and so on. Nice one. And I'd say, why is the green room green? Because it calms people down. Yes, I like that answer. I mean, I don't think I've heard it before. It seems most more plausible than the limelight one. Really? Then where does the word limelight come from, then? Oh, yes. It was very white and bright. Not particularly green green, but back in the day it was. How long have green rooms been around, I wonder? Longer than television? Martin. I can only speak for television, but I think it probably anything to do with anxiety and nervousness. I'm going to give you a round of applause because I like it and I think green is quite soothing. But I have a feeling that even in the sort of 17th century, they had green rooms, which. But that doesn't mean you're wrong. It could have been to calm down the actors. It doesn't imply that it's a tv issue, it only implies that it's a calming, relaxing colour. It's true. That's very nicely done, I think. Earns you a round of applause. I like that one. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Professor Martin. Yes, it is. I have no idea you had a multimedia career, despite your academic. Yes. Years ago, robots were very popular and I tended to be one of the guys. They often asked onto the program to come and do it. Well, that was back in the Craig Charles iteration rather than the Dara O'Brien one. Yes, indeed. Yes. Absolutely correct in all its different guises. Thank you, Professor Martin. I can't get through to JW Mistria. Well, no, you can't write in with answers. Sam is in Bristol. Sam, question or answer? Answer. Oh, go on, answer. It's about the green room question. Oh, no. So the ushers at the London palladium used to wear green jackets and they used to hang them up in the room and made it look green. Nah, I'm not having that. It is. It's true. The London palladium ushers used to wear green jackets. Well, that might be true, but it's not why it's called the green room. It is. And they hung them up on the walls on pegs, and they were. They were green. Listen, repeating it isn't going to make it true. It's not Brexit. There's a million different theories on this. That's not one of them. Well, my favorite. My favorite is that it's rhyming slang. Green gauge stage. Yeah, but it's not. It's not the London Palladian, because they've been around forever, either. It calms people down. But I think it's the limelights. The calcium oxide that was in the lights made everything green, so they painted the green rooms green so that you wouldn't get freaked out when you. But I'll give you a round of applause as well. Everyone can have a round of applause on this. There is no definitive answer. Keith does not like it. You should see his little face. He gets so cross. Is that because you value the round of applause? You've received so much and you think, well, you haven't received one, have you. So you just see it as such a big. Ah. So we're tarnishing it by handing them out Willy nilly. He's like, well, no, you can't have one, Keith. 1254 is the time Kim's in sterling. Kim, question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So, the math of the world. Yes. So the answer, I suppose, isn't strictly excited. It's a really big number. So 5.9 times ten to 24 kg. How do you know? I'm an astrophysicist as my undergraduate, which is not what I do now, but the really interesting bit is how we know. Yeah. So, in the 1770s, there was a guy called Neville Maskelyne, who was the astronomer royal at the time. Okay. And he took a commission to try and work out how much the world weighed. So he took his team up a large mountain in the middle of Scotland called Chehalion. Oh, yeah. And they built a pendulum, and by using calculations measuring how much the pendulum deflected away from the mountain, they came up with an answer, which. I can't remember exactly what their answer was, but it's very close to what we currently know from mathematical modelling, really. By swinging the pendulum up a mountain, he managed to work out the mass of the world. Absolutely. Wow. What was that again? 5.9 times what? Ten to the 24. Times ten to the power of 24. And that would be the mass. This is an answer of uncommon beauty, Kim. It is lovely. It's got a nice little bit in the car park when you go to climb up the mountain. That tells you all about the history, really. And your qualifications are your degree in astrophysics. And I've been up the mountain quite a few times. Well, a round of applause, then, for Kim, at least a round of applause. I think that's one of the nicest bits, though. One. The mountain translates from Gaelic. The speedy hill of the Caledonians. The fairy hill of the Caledonians. That's it. Oh, that's beautiful as well. Have another round of applause. Keith's out of his ears, so it's not my fault you've never got a round of applause, Keith. Kim just knows a lot of stuff, mate, and she's got a lovely turn of phrase. Rachel's in Twicken. A Rachel. Question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on, Rachel. Okay. It's the Christmas pudding question. Why do we put quonies and Christmas puddings coins? Yes. So my grandmother, who was born in 1901, she always used to cook her homemade Christmas pudding. We still do. And make them a. My mother in law doesn't have a bit of. A. Bit of a ceremony with my nephews and my daughters. It's rather pleasant. But anyway, I digress. Carry on. Sorry. I know my other family members make it, but I never have. But it dates. It dates back to Edward the. I think it would be the second. So hundreds and hundreds of years ago. And it used to be a pudding that was eaten on the 12th night, so not on Christmas day afterwards. And there would be a game and the winner would be the one that got the pea or a bean that had been baked in the pudding. So it was hard. So it was, you know, funny that someone found it and then they'd be treated as a king or queen for the rest of the day. So it was just a game and then it evolved into putting different things in. So we used to have charms and pennies putting out, but things like a symbol. If a woman found a thimble, then she'd be single for the rest of the next year. If you found a ring, you'd get married and all that sort of thing, and then it just evolved into pennies and. And superstition. Bringing you luck. Got round of applause for Rachel. Thank you. Don't be ridiculous. I'm moving on. Only because I want to squeeze in one more answer and that is going to come from Chris, who's in Worcester. Chris, question or answer? It's an answer. James. Merry Christmas. Up the Harriers. Up the Harriers. My. Well, yeah, tough times, tough times. But anyway, philly boots. So this is due with the first land border. Yes, this is actually the andorran border between France and Spain from around about the mid twelve hundreds. Are you serious? Yeah, it was a feudal thing because the co regents of Andorra co rulers are the french president and the spanish prime minister. It's a feudal thing. Going back to the 1200. And that is the first time that there was a line you could walk over, even though it didn't really mean anything except legally. Yeah. Qualifications? Yes. I wrote pub quizzes in Worcester and Birmingham and I actually used this question about six months ago. Did you really? Oh, no, I know Worcester and I can't ask you questions about local hostelries because Sheila Fogarty is here. No, I can't. Do you do one in the grape shop? Sadly not. The one I did in Worcester is at the old catablanca's wine bar, which, you know, called the all basin. Very smart. Thank you, Chris. Round of applause. Good work. Up the Harriers, here's Sheila Fogarty. I am indeed. Thank you. The Queen's speech, the second in two months, held no surprises, really, did it? Leaving the EU by the 31 January. New funding by law for the NHS. New, arguably unnecessary visas to fast track highly skilled doctors and other health professionals from abroad. A care system that does not require you to sell your home. The repeal of the fixed term Parliament act. Just some of the goodies on offer from this new majority conservative government. There was no small talk between Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn on the way through from the Commons to the Lords. But there'll definitely be some big talk later in the House of Commons, when both leaders will speak about the government's legislative plan. We'll bring that to you live. And this whole class thing, class thing in the Labour leadership debate, what does it say about us?