Where does the weight go when you lose it?

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. Four minutes after time was the time. Goodness me, is that already? Already? Where does it all go? This is mystery, your weekly opportunity, etcetera, etcetera. Zero. 345-606-0973 is the number you need if you have a question that is in search of an answer. I'd probably rather not do anything related to the cabinet reshuffle, but, you know, it's your show as much as mine, as I frequently remind you. So if you've got a question that needs an answer, ring the number. Now, if you hear somebody else ask a question to which you know the answer, the number remains the same. And if you're not familiar with this feature, it's great fun. It just is great fun. And oddly, sort of still surviving. It's not really about the exchange of information, it's more about the journey. It's more about the journey than the destination. But obviously we don't accept questions that are either really, really obvious or just not very interesting to anybody. Except you. For example, don't ring in and ask where your keys are. Have you looked in the key drawer? Would be the obvious answer to that. How much does that annoy you? Does your wife do that as well? Or your partner doing that as well? Have you seen my keys? Have you looked in the key pot? No, I haven't looked in the key pot, darling. When I'm looking for my keys, the last place I would ever think of looking is the place where my keys are supposed to be every 20 years of marriage. Still, that little exchange occurs on a several times a week. Five minutes after twelve is the time. So that's the way it works. Should I just crack on? Do you? Don't need any more rubric. Should we just. Yes, we will. Yes, we shall. Kevin is in Marbella. Kevin, do you want the good news or the bad news? Good news. The good news is you're up first on mystery hour and I'm about to ask you whether you have a question or answer. I have an answer, James. No, hang on. Bad news first. Clever clogs. No, it's a question and I'm proud to be first. Actually wanted this opportunity many times. Congratulations. Oh, sorry, I didn't realize there really was bad news. There really is bad news. A far right polemicist who is expected to run for the presidency has called in France for a ban on foreign sounding names such as Mohammed, Kevin and Jordan. Oh, no. Yes. Does that mean I'm not English? Anymore. I don't know what you are. I don't know why you are. Kevin. It's a welsh name. I was proud when I got my new passport. I thought, gosh, you know it's actually black. To be honest, it's not blue at all. Better than the old pesky purple ones, whatever color they were. Anyway, where were we? Question or answer? Soon to be banned question. James. Carry on, Kevin. Now, you could call me as foin soir from now on. Sorry? Distraction. Yes, absolutely. I think I'm in your first category of blinking. I was nearly swollen. Blinking obvious. But I've been thinking about it and I can't find an answer, so this is my opportunity. You know when you lose weight? Yeah, it's been a while, but I'm passively familiar with it. Post sort of COVID I've been thinking about it and losing weight, things like that, and I don't know where it goes. I don't know, that sounds ridiculous and obvious that I should do it my age, but I don't know where it goes. When you lose weight, people say, oh, I've lost weight. Like, where did it go? I like that question. The answer is going to be energy, isn't it? It's going to be based on energy. No, it's not. It is. No, that's. That's energy. That's not the actual weight. Yeah, but the weight. I mean, you're burning fat, ideally, and then if you get undernourished, you're then burning muscle and other parts of your body, but you're turning chemical energy into heat energy and kinetic energy. But that's not losing mass, is it? It is. No, it's not. It is. Really isn't. Honestly. All right, I think it is. Boy, come back. Say that again. You're not losing the molecules themselves, you're turning something into energy. Yeah, and then. And the heat. Or the. Or the kinetic. Kinetics. Always a bit of a tricky one. I'm trying to think out loud. Kevin, you've been thinking about this for days. I've only had it for two minutes. I've had loads of time and I can't get there. Hang on, where does the log. And you stick it on a fire. Yeah, right, the log. That's it. That's my example. That turns into heat. Yeah, but there's something left at the end of it, isn't it, Ash? Yeah, but there's something left at the end of your burning fat. No, there isn't. You go skinny and then you die. I see what you mean. Well, yeah, but if, you know. No, no, no, because if you got the temperature higher, there'd be no ash. No, there wouldn't. You'd get to a point, yeah, you'd have to spontaneously combust. If a human. And also carbon dioxide, we breathe out carbon dioxide. There's carbon in that, mate. That's our ash. Oh, that's our ash. That's our ash. The carbon dioxide that we breathe out is our ash. Genius. It sort of makes sense if it's carbon dioxide, doesn't it? Yeah, but is it or ash? A minute ago, you thought it was kinetic energy. No, it is as well. It's kinetic energy, heat energy and chemicals. You've only just studied the carbon dioxide. It's a work in progress. This is how human knowledge is. What I need is a biologist to tell me that you're right and then I'll give you a round of applause. No, fair enough. I like that. The ash thing was. That's one of my favorite ever misjam moments, that carbon. You'll go, you think. You thought you'd nailed it there with the ash, didn't you, kev? Thought you got me on the ropes there with the. Oh, yeah. What about the ash, then? And it's a carbon. Hey, what about the carbon, mate, that you breathe out in your carbon dioxide? Thanks to Julie for that. Julie who actually texted to say, we breathe out carbon. I didn't know what she was talking about. And then you said ash and it all fell into place. She's answered it. It all fell into place. So where does the weight goes? Water vapor, maybe. Maybe there's going to be some water vapor in there as well. Yeah, that's exactly right. It's all good. We're getting there. But you're right, you want someone to come along with a more formal qualification and neatly mop up all the brilliance that we've just shared. It sounds good to me, but if someone can come on and say, yes, they're both exactly right, especially Julie and you, then I'll round the applause for you. I'll play the bit yourself. I like it, Kevin. Thank you, mate. How's Marbella? Everything all right? Is it nice? We just had a huge fire. I mean, like, unbelievable. Started by a person, believe it or not. Not a natural one, but it's out now. Took four days and I'm looking now at a black mountain rather than a green one, which it should be. The sky's blue and life is out. So life is all good. Good man. Stay safe. Ten minutes after twelve, there's a lot of fires. I don't know Spain that well, but in Greece you can still see the next level when it all grows back. You can still see the occasional blackened stump. It's something really quite moving about the way that nature recovers from that sort of thing, but also something really depressing about seeing a once verdant hill or, or mountain genuinely charred. I was in north Berwick about a month ago and the volcanic rocks on the beach there are still black. Someone's going to text me now and say, oh, bless you, James. They're not black because they came out of a volcano 2 million years ago, but right now I still think they are. Ten minutes after twelve is a time Steve's in Nottingham. Steve, question or answer? It's a question, James. Please carry on. I'd like to know if there's anything remaining in british law that still requires a minimum age of 21. Oh, it's a good question. You know, like, you used to have to be 21, didn't you, to get married or whatever, you know. Keys to the door. Keys to the door. Keys to the door. Yeah. Yeah, I like it. And that's it. It's a really simple question. I don't know if there is anything or not. Well, I'm obviously stringing it out in the hope of coming up with an answer. Steve. I'm aware that it's a simple question. I'm not struggling to understand it, I'm just trying to. I'm just trying to create a little bit of space here to come up with. Joy. Joy? No. Might be some job, maybe becoming a vicar. I don't know. An MP. An MP? An MP. How old do you have to be to be an MP? Well, physically or mentally? Well, yeah, that would be here all day, wouldn't we? I don't think there is a limit on it, but anyway. Right, I'll find out. I wouldn't be surprised if MP's. If that. It's just one of those laws. They've never got bothered. They've never bothered to change. Like being able to, you know, drive a flock of sheep over London Bridge or whatever it is. Those old laws that no one ever enforces, but which are still actually in place, but I don't know, off the top of my head. Age, a consent at one point, presumably. Age. You could get married, join the army. None of them, but maybe MP. We'll find out. We will find out. Steve. It's a great question. I think until relatively recently, the age of consent for same sex couples, male same sex couples were still 21, I think, in my lifetime, sort of kind of living memory, you know? I think you're right, but we know it isn't now. Okay, you're on. I like that a lot. 21. What can't you do in the UK today until you are two? 10 345-606-0973 and when you lose weight, where does it go? Jade is in Gatwick. Jade, question or answer? I have a question. When you look at a flat map of the world, why is there a reason why it is split by the Pacific Ocean and not the Atlantic Ocean? Well, where are you looking at this flat map of the world? Well, generally. But generally where? Well, classrooms anytime. You know, if you go and visit places, what country are you? I'm in the UK. And what is smack in the middle of the map that you're looking at? Flat. Ah, the UK. And that is why the Pacific is where the Pacific is and the Atlantic is where the Atlantic is, because the thing that has been prioritized in the plotting of said map is the location of the UK. So if I go to America, then I'd see America in the middle. I don't know if it'd be in the middle. But if you went to, you know, out of Mongolia, the maps that they would be using in schools there, unless they obviously had all come from Britain, would not have Britain in the middle. Okay, it's a good answer, that you don't sound as impressed as I was hoping. No, I'm not. What, are you joking me? You've watched, like, I don't know, american films or, you know, any worldwide films, whether in the army or from whatever country they are making it up now, Jake, there's no way. What do you do? Press pause and get right up close to the screen and have a little try and have a little look at whether the UK. I haven't noticed it was different. Well, you wouldn't, would you? You wouldn't, would you? No, you wouldn't notice. But it's a brilliant answer, this. I hope it's correct. I can't prove it to you, but the. Or. Or, or Greenwich. So I'm still right, but Greenwich is the longitude and latitude. Middle right? Yeah. For all navigations like the international language of the sea. That, to me, is a bit more believable than the first answer. It's still actually no, but it's still correct to say that the map is arranged in the way that it is, because the UK is in the middle, where I lost my thread and some of my credibility. Was by claiming that that was because it was a map made in the UK. But of course, if Greenwich, if the meridian is in the UK, and that will also be in the middle of the map, ergo, I'm a flipping genius. I accept that. I accept that too. Thank you very much. Jade. Round of applause for me. Thank you very much. If that's not the reason, I'll give you the money myself. It's 1215, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call 034-560-6097 318 minutes after twelve is the time. Where does the weight go when you lose it? And is there anything left that you have to be 21 years of age before you are permitted to do it? A lot of you pointing out that Mari Black, the SNP MP, was 20 when she got elected. So my cautious suggestion that possibly, what should we call it? Possibly becoming an MP might still be a threshold of 21 years of age has fallen apart like a cheap suit. 1219 is the time, thankfully, I rescued my credibility with my brilliant answer to the last question about maps. Sally's in Epsom. Sally, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. Fantastic. Okay, my question is this. Does everybody say, achoo all around the world when they sneeze? Oh, boy, that's quite a good question. That could be linguistically or the sound they make, you know. No, I know. I quite like that question because, I mean, I'm thinking of animal noises. I know in France they don't say cockadoodle, do they say coca Rico? Which is probably more phonetically accurate. Cockery. Cock. Because cockerels can't say the duh, they can't say d. But for some reason we said, but I don't know. A sneeze is a reflex, because I know that could be learned behavior, couldn't it? It's really loud. Achieve really loud. Sometimes I just say hirsch. I say the word hirsch for some weird. Hirsch Hursch. Yeah, I sometimes. Do you ever do the one when you hold it in and you just get a sore? Do you ever do that? Yeah, that one as well. But when you've got a real one coming. Do you know, the producer this morning had a sneeze spoiled by one of our management team. She was just about to enjoy a really satisfying sneeze and Ben called over about some important managerial matter and it ruined her sneeze. Yeah, that can happen too. You've got to hate it when that happens, haven't you? But, yeah, okay, so. Because, you know, like, I don't know where it would have begun in a children's book or something like that. But you do. Do you consciously achieve. Do you consciously do it? I think I, I think I mind you make a very loud. No, it's more chew than the, ah, chew. That one is a bit performative. That's a bit showy offy, though. We know eskimos do the same thing. I don't know. I mean, they probably do more sneezing than we do. It's cold out there, isn't it? What was the other noise you make? Hirsch? Yeah, I say Hirsch, sometimes we shall find. We shall find. I love this question. I mean, all we need is one example to answer yes, isn't it? I mean, you see what I mean? But we will shortly find out. I like it. Thank you, Sally. Great. Top of the class. 21 after twelve, Darren's on the world. Darren, question or answer? I have an answer for you, James. Carry on, Darren. Okay, what happens? The question was, when you exercise, the fat molecules actually shrink because you're expelling the energy. Then you have a byproduct, which we. What's the byproduct? The byproduct is carbon and water. Right. So when you breathe. And some heat and movement as well. Yes, well, obviously the movement, because when you move, you use energy, so that's what you're using. But in terms of. He wanted the equivalent of ash, didn't he? So you've got carbon and water. You have the carbon and water. So when you breathe out, you get rid of the carbon when you go to the toilet and when you sweat, you're expelling the water, so. But that's what you've eaten and drunk as well. Yes, but what you eat and what you drink is you. If you're not using it, your body will then store it as fat because it's not being used. But no, but exercising doesn't make you go to the toilet more, does it? I didn't know. No, no, it doesn't. But when you do go to toilet, because you have an excess of water, well, you're putting water out of your gulp as well on you. When you, when you breathe out, why, you can see the vapor in there. So that, that is it. So the byproducts of weight loss are water and carbon. Yes. Yeah, I like. And oxygen, well, oxygen, you breathe in, it's carbon dioxide. You breathe out, you only breathe out. What do you think the dioxide bit means? The dioxide, that's a little bit above my qualification. That's carbon. It's CO2, isn't it? So it's one carbon molecule and two oxygen molecules. So for every carbon molecule, you breathe out. You're breathing out two oxygen molecules. I just think there must be oxygen in fat as well, because it's in almost every. I don't know, but that stroke must be. That's a little bit above my. Well, it's above mine as well. But it's in water, isn't it? Because it's h. Two o. So you're putting out great questions, great work. Qualifications? Qualifications is. I'm a qualified personal trainer and I specialize in nutritional weight management. Nice. I'm doing about six k on the rowing machine at the moment. In half an hour. I think that's quite healthy, isn't it? That's not bad. As long as you're moving, you're burning. I'm getting quite into it as well. Do you know what I do? You'll like this. I put on some tunes. What was. What was it? Quadrant park. How old are you, Darren? I'm 44. Did you ever go to quadrant park? No, I missed that evening. I was serving in the army at that time. Oh, now you made me feel like a right snowflake. You didn't even go to cream or anything like that. No, it was. I missed all. That's what I do. I put my tunes on, on my headphones, I get on the row machine and I go at it like Steve flipping red. Oh, good. Good for you. I mean, whatever works for you really works for me. But I was listening to a documentary about the rave culture and quadrant park feature quite a lot, so I thought. I thought that maybe we'd be able to bond over memories of being at Quadrant park. But you were out serving queen and country while I was on a flipping podium in the middle of Liverpool, making an absolute ass of myself. Yeah, well, I'm sure I've made a bigger ass of myself within the military. Not today. Not today, Darren. Today you've earned a round of applause. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's coming up to 1225 Frank's in Glasgow. Frank, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Can you tell me why? Can you tell me why the home counties are called the home counties? Whose home? And they named counties. Why are they called the home counties? It's a good question. It's quite offensive, actually. Yeah, possibly. Is it british values? British values? I don't. I don't think you were listening to the last hour, were you, Frank? It's always, yes, no, it just struck me that we had a long conversation about british values. I was 45 minutes into it before I recognized that we hadn't acknowledged the existence of Scotland. But you, I guess you're used to that, aren't you? I'm trying to be better. I'm trying to, I don't know, home counties, home counties. Home counties. I'm not an artist. No, but you don't need to be a nationalist to be a little bit peeved that we talk about british values without acknowledging the existence of a large part of Britain, do you? So, I mean, I can't remember, but it was a scottish fellow in Dad's army, wasn't there? But I don't remember much popping up in only fools and horses. And in Blackadder, it was almost straight out of a sort of jock mc, jock caricature type characterizer. Well, it's usually just a gangster or something. That's true. Does Taggart reflect british values? There's a question. Quite possibly. Quite possibly. Probably does. Nice work, Frank. I'll find out for you. It's a good question, that the home counties. Well, they're called the home counties. I don't live there. It's like, whose joke was it? Was it Peter K? He said, I'm not homophobic, I love my house. I always thought that was a brilliant joke. 26 minutes after twelve. Thank you, Frank. Joanna is in Stirling in Scotland, finally making up for all the embarrassments of ignoring Scotland in the last hour. Joanna, what would you like to say? I've got an answer for you about a true. Oh, good. I'm Polish. I've spoken to you before about the scottish independence. Yes, no, I remember. Yeah. So the polish sign is ap sheik. Oh, well, there's the answer. I can tell you that one. I don't know about other languages. I'm afraid you don't need to. We only needed once. Is it at you everywhere? And yours. Is that. What's the polish word for a tissue? For tissue. It's something else. It's nothing to do with that. Because some people were suggesting that is a short. Is a sort of way of saying, our tissue, a tissue, we all fall down. It was, wasn't it? To start with. That's chicken and egg. But you. So it's like that sound you make when air comes out through your mouth, so you take the breath in. Ah. And then, you know. So I think that's that I'm hearing. I promise. I can't check any of these. That's why I didn't take them by text, because I need to hear the actual noise, but suggestions that the Spanish say Jesus. Okay, well, we say bless you afterwards, because do you know why that everyone knows this, but I don't know whether you were taught it in Polish. In Polish, you'd say Novia, which is good health. Yeah, good. So, because it uses sigma, apparently, it's probably an old wives tale. One of the symptoms of the bubonic plague was sneezing. So if someone sneezed in that period, be the 17th century, they worried you'd got the plague, so they said bless you, because they thought you're going to be dead quite soon. Okay, but that's not very cheery. And Germans. Do we know what the Germans say? No, I don't know. Trying to rag my brain with. I can remember any. Well, you've got a round of applause, because the question was, do all countries say, achoo or hush? And you have provided categorical and definitive proof that. No, they don't, because in Poland they go, I see. If I get this right, tell me what my. How's my polish achieve? Yeah, that's more or less. What do you mean, more or less? It's spelled ap s I K, so it's a p. Oh, okay. Practically fluent. Joanna, have a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. Jj's in Glossop. JJ, that's two calls from Glossop this week. I used to live in Birch Vale, you know, many, many years ago, which just. Just down there. Yeah, we used to go swimming in Glossop. I'd have a toasted tea cake after going to. Oh, it's fabulous. That big old victorian place. Yes. I was so small, though I can barely remember it. But it was a proper family tradition. Anyway, where were we? Question or answer? Where were we? Well, funny enough, sir, this ties in with british values mentioned earlier, I'm sure, last night. Quite right, sir. I'm sure last night, like me, you were absolutely spellbound by the announcement of the orcas and this formation of Boris and Biden, etcetera. Yes, I was watching it live and I was watching the lectern, and I noticed, bizarrely for the first time in my adult life, that the British. The royal coat of arms has a unicorn on it. Yes, only since Brexit. Only since Brexit. Oh, right. Well, it must have got its blue passport. It's been put there because of Brexit. And it's an article of faith insisted upon by Boris, by Dominic Cummings, before he left government, that if we put a unicorn in the coat of arms, then unicorns might appear. And if unicorns can appear, then Brexit might go, well, do you know what? I'm really not thinking outside the box today, am I? I know the answer to this, and actually, you've managed. You're letting me claw back some of my credibility lost by talking about british values for 45 minutes without mentioning Scotland. You see? So I was wondering. I was wondering what mythical beings have to do with, you know, british values embodying the monarchy. I mean, the lion, I get dua, mondoit, I get that. I wrote my history, but no, the unicorn is the national animal of Scotland. Okay? So because you are the king of, you know, since James Vi ascended to the throne, the unicorn has been alongside the line. So it's the line of England and the unicorn of Scotland. You don't get supplementary questions, JJ, unfortunately. Well, obviously. Obviously you now want to know more about why, but that's not what I'm here for. I'm merely here to answer your question and accept my round of applause. The fictional the horned thing, the preserve of eight year old girls everywhere and gay men like myself, that is the emblem. Is it a big thing among gay men? The unicorn? Oh, God, yeah, yeah. I was a shelf stacker at B and M for years, and, like, the unicorn thing and the. Oh, yeah, it was like, oh, I'm not. You know, I'm not. I'm not sad. I'm a unicorn today. I'm just fabulous. You know, you live and learn, but that way. And you've learned today that it is. It is the scottish symbol. There we are. There we are. In fact, I think. Thank you, James. I think that the scottish coat of arms had two unicorns on it before the crown was merged with England. Two unicorns would be an extravagance, surely. I mean, it'd be quite nice. Symmetrically, it'd look quite nice, wouldn't it? But no, I mean, who needs two, you know, this, I think, I seem to chivalry. Chivalry. Chivalry, probably, or some such. Yeah, if you drop your sword. Yeah, you'd be. Don't really need a sword if you got a unicorn. You just need to point their head. Arguably not. Arguably not. Well done, JJ. I think. I'm delighted. Thank you. Cheers, mate. And also, I've demonstrated my british values, you see, by recognizing the importance of Scotland to any conversation about british values. Better late than never. 1231 is the time. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. It's 1235. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC, where mystery hour continues. Anything you can't do till you're 21 and we've done the sneeze. And why are the home counties called the home counties? That's all I've got. Have I missed anything? Just those two. The 21 and the home counties are the only two things. Are the only two things remaining on the list. Alex is in the Wirral. Alex, question or answer? It's an expansion on an earlier answer. James, do you know Darren? No. So it's a complete coincidence you both. You're both phoning from the Wirral? Yeah. It's a very. It's a very clever place for the Wirral. Clearly it is. Go on, then. What did Darren miss or not include in his answer? So I guess this is a long winded way of saying that you were ripe. Mainly. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Carry on. Basically, I guess, when you take in food, you're taking in mainly carbohydrate, protein and fat, of course fiber, which is negligible. There's also micronutrients. We can ignore those. Carbohydrates and fat are mainly carbohydrates and oxygen atoms. Protein as well as carbon, hydrogen. Oxygen has some sulfur and nitrogen, but that's minimal, that gets excreted. So the bulk of what you lose when you lose weight has to be carbon, hydrogen and oxygen atoms, and that comes out both as water and carbon dioxide. About 16% of the weight loss from that is the water. The fate remaining about 84% is actually breathed out as carbon dioxide. So the weight actually is mainly breathed out. Absolutely brilliant. So Darren keeps his round of applause, but you get an extra one. What are your qualifications? So, I'm a professor of small animal medicine at the University of Liverpool. I basically have a specialist interest in obesity and dogs and cats. I run a specialist weight management clinic and I've published over 150 articles in the peer reviewed press. Oh, go on, then. I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. And, of course, also this. Great. Were you expecting that? Because you kind of almost. Come on. You laid out those qualifications, Alex, that. Were you free? I've been sensing that, you know, the ante's been up recently for the radio, so I really did have to die with that. Was that. I mean, was a part of me. If I was in a less chirpy mood, I might have said, what a shame. The question wasn't about dogs and cats losing weight then. But I feel that I published quite a bit on that, but then. Oh, fantastic. Thank you. That was lovely stuff. Really lovely stuff. And you know, from both ends, Darren working at the personal trainer end of it, and Alex working at the academic end of it, the professorial end of it, no less. Tim's in Beverly. Tim, question or answer, James? Question, please. Cycling and wind. James, if I am, and I'll get you to a bit of. A bit of imagination here, if we have a 1 mile long stretch of road, we are cycling along it at, let's say 20 miles an hour. And we have a 20 miles an hour wind. If that wind is behind me, yes. I obviously have a benefit. So I will use slightly less effort than if I were to maintain the speed of 20 mph, correct? Yes. Okay. If there was no wind, I would have to use more effort than if there was than with that tail wind. Agreed? Yes. Agreed. If the wind is then the same wind, the same road, the same. Mate, this is like being back at school. This is awful. I'm actually getting weird flashbacks now. You're going to ask me why I'm not wearing a proper jacket in a minute or something like that, or tell me to get my shoes polished. Go on, carry on. So the same wind again. Now it's a headwind. Yeah. So it's coming towards me. It's coming towards me. So therefore I have to use more effort. Yes. Am I using more effort than I have gained coming the other way? Does that kind of make sense? So. So is it equal? So are they equal in opposite forces? Correct. That's. Thank you. That's wonderful. But is effort measurable in those terms? I suppose. Is it measurable? Yeah, it's got to be. So the. So the amount of pedaling. So, okay, so you're currently pedaling at 100 rotations a minute. Yep. And there's no wind at all. Yep. 20 mph wind goes up behind you and you're watching your speedometer and you notice that you are maintaining 20 mph, but you've gone down to 80 pedals a minute. Yep. And then that wind disappears and you notice that you, in order to maintain 20, you've gone back up to 100. And then the headwind arrives and it's blowing towards you at exactly the same speed as the previous wind that was behind you. And you notice that you have to go up to 120 pedals per minute in order to maintain a speed of 20 mph. So is it? Exactly. Why wouldn't it be the same? I don't know. Well, because, I mean, you're a cyclist as well, James. My gut feeling, technically I am. I ride a bicycle, but I don't own any Lycra or fancy water bottles. I had a sense that you might when you said that, but no, I'm unlikely ever to be troubling the scorers on my. I've got a rather nice handmade pashley bicycle, but it's beautiful. I don't think I'll be troubling anybody either, but I enjoy it and it's a health benefit, so there we go. My gut feeling, James, is you need more effort in the winter than you gain because of friction. Maybe, I don't know. I'd like. I'd like a scientific answer. Yeah, well, friction is a scientific answer. How dare you? Well, it's not good enough though, is it? Friction is a very scientific phenomenon. I'm sure also, you know a lot about friction if you're a cyclist. If you're a cyclist with a Quran. Exactly. Friction is chafing. But that's not the sort of friction that we're talking about. Moving rapidly on. Moving rapidly on. I'll try and find out for you. I like that a lot and I think we've done a half decent job of explaining the question. If you can. If you can lessen to maintain a constant speed of 20 mph with a wind behind you and then a wind in front of you, will those two forces be equal and opposite? In other words, the amount less pedalling that you have to do with the wind happily propelling you, is that the same as the more pedaling? Would the number be the same as the more pedalling with the wind coming towards you? And I think, like Tim, intuitively not. Because in a vacuum, maybe. Well, there's no wind in a vacuum. All right, I need a slightly better example. Aerodynamics is why Tim and I think that there might be a little bit more to it than that. Apologies to anyone else who just had a horrible flashback to O level or GCSE maths. John's in Guilford. John, question or answer? I have an answer for you. Carry on, John. So something that you have to be 21 years old or older to do currently in the UK is to adopt a child. Oh, beautifully done qualifications. Looked into it a few years ago when starting our family was going to be a little more complex than we had hoped and learned a lot about what our options were. Fantastic. Yeah, there it is. 21. Surprisingly young actually, isn't it? In a way. I mean, I suppose we legally let people have their own children earlier than that. Just surprisingly young. For the reason you mention in that the. Because I'm adopted myself and normally couples have tried. I suppose non same sex couples have tried the more obvious route to impregnation before they start wondering whether or not it's ever going to happen. And then you look into adoption. But actually that's me being a child of the 1970s, isn't it? If you want to adopt a child, there's no earthly reason why you should have to be older than you have to be to have one biologically. Except 16 sounds a bit young and 21 sounds a little bit more sensible. Well, that's a beautiful answer. I thought we were going to get a blank on that one. No worries. Happy to help. Well done. You didn't go down that path in the end. We didn't. We did a lot of research into what the options were that were available to us. We ended up having IVF and we're very lucky to have a four year old girl now. Same here. Congratulations. Round of applause for John. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I like that. That's lovely. And we'll be doing something. When are we doing the thing with Coram? Is it next week that we're going to be talking to Coram, putting some work in on encouraging people to think about adoption. Always happy to help out. Coram, one of my favourite organizations, named after Sir Thomas Coram, who built the foundling hospital in London. That is for fans of Jackie Wilson, Jacqueline Wilson. That is, of course, one of the main locales for the Hetty Feather series of books. God, it's a very erudite programme. I tell you what, you learn a lot, don't you? Tuning into the great british radio show every day. Jamie's in Chester. Jamie, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. So I've developed my first grey hair. Congratulations. This is a family program, so don't tell me where it is. Well, that's the question. The question is, why do they always. Why are grey hairs on men predominantly always start in either beards or sideburns, rather than on the top of your head? If you are fortunate enough to have hair on the top of your head. Yes. Is that true? I mean. I mean, I also have quite a nice. I'm quite pleased with my greatness in my beard, actually, and I don't have much on my head yet, but I didn't know. Is that. Is that a joke? Could it not be the other way around? Do we not? People who've got gray hair on their head and still got brown or black or ginger beards. I shouldn't really talk. My partner, she has. Be very careful. Jamie, mate, are you sure you want to do this? You're on live national radio. I won't tell. I was on the radio today. Fair enough. Go on. It just predominantly, like, most of the time, you see people with a good, good thick color of hair, but then their beard starts go grey or their sideburns. There's no reason why it shouldn't, but it'd be nice to have an explanation. It's a different type of hair and eyebrows as well. Like, I've got wispy grey eyebrows but nothing else. And one grey hair on my sideburns. Have you let. Is it still there or have you dealt with it? It is still there, but my partner, she has a weird fetish of pulling hairs out. So if I have a one hair on my chest, she said, oh, can I have it? And she pings it out. There's a technical name for it. Is there really? There is, yes. I'm not going to say it because I'll get it wrong. No, fair enough. I can see the appeal of squeezing a spot. Apologies to anyone having that. No, I can really see the appeal. I'd even consider squeezing someone else's spot, actually. Oh, God. What? Everyone just suddenly sat up on the studio. That's perfectly normal. This bloke's wife pulls hairs out of his naked chest. You think I'm weird? Unbelievable. I get you an answer. I like that. Thank you, Jamie. Lovely stuff. Regards to your wife. If indeed the relationship survives this revelation 1246. What needs answers? Home counties. I thought we'd have done that by now. The complicated bicycle question involving mathematics and physics. 0345-6060 973. The grey hairs. And we've done the 21. Anything else? I think that's the lot. 1246, mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Ten to one is the time. You're listening to? Well, just like the man said. Should we crack on? Peter is in Bedale. Peter, question or answer? Hi, James. It's a question. I have just spent a fortnight in St Lucia. Oh. And I was lying on the beach, which was lovely and white. Okay, yeah, very nice. Lying on the beach, lovely and white. And I thought to myself, why are the beaches on some volcanic islands white? And on other volcanic islands they're grey, or in fact black. Is St Lucia a volcanic island? Yeah. Is it? I didn't know that. Yeah. Lots of volcanic stuff down there. In fact, Antigua, where we stayed, very white beaches, but just over the way was an island with black beaches. I. Well, yeah, but it's just going to be the passage of time, isn't it? Not the passage of time, the passage of sand. More than the passage of time. So the black sand has all got washed away. I don't know, Peter. I don't know, mate. I shouldn't have said that out loud. I nearly phoned you last week, but it would have cost a fortune from the beach in St Lucia, from St Lounging. That would have been nice because I was talking about. I was on the. Not quite the same climate, but I was in north Berwick a month ago and the beach isn't black because it's rocks, but the big, big rocks that would have been blown out of the top of Berwick law and millions of years ago, they're still black, amazingly. Yeah. So why. So why is some white? I don't know. I've got a feeling the answer might be quite obvious if we get one. And in fact, this is going to be geology or something, isn't it? It's bound to be an ology of some sort, Peter. Most things are. Most things are. He's got an ology. Right, you're on. Welcome back as well. Glad you had a good holiday. Why are some volcanic. Why are some beaches on volcanic islands black and others are white? Why, in other words, why aren't they all black? That would make more sense. Williams in Warwick. William, question or answer? Answer, please, James. Carry on, William. It's about the cycling into a headwind or not into a headwind or on a still day. Yes. So on average, if you were to cycle on a still day, you would use less energy than if you had cycled with a headwind for half time and with a tailwind for half time. And the answer is, due to aerodynamic resistance. So aerodynamically, you've got a speed factor to aerodynamic resistance, which goes up quadratically with the speed of the wind. Yes. So if you'd been cycling along, let's say, 5 miles an hour, your sort of aerodynamic term, you'd square that five and that would give you 25. If you'd been cycling along with a 1 mile an hour tailwind. Yeah, you'd square that four now and that gives you 16. Or if you've been cycling on into a headwind, you'd square that six, so that would give you 36. So the tailwind makes you go slower. Sorry, I've got that back to one. But one of them makes you go faster and one of them makes you go slower. Headwind would either make you go slower or it'd make it harder to cycle. Yes. By a greater factor than the tailwind makes you go faster. Yeah, yeah. If you add those two factors together at 16 and 36 I talked about, you'd end up with 52, then average it. That would get you down to 26. 26 is bigger than 25, so mathematically you can prove. And that's because of aerodynamics. Yeah. Because of the resistance of the wind coming towards you, slowing you down. More than the same speed wind behind you speeds you up, because there's no resistance involved. In fact, the resistance makes you go faster. If the wind is behind you, the more resistance there is, the more velocity you would achieve, whereas, yeah, tailwind's always beneficial. Yeah, for sure. Great stuff. And then. Yeah. Okay. Do you know what, it fell into place there. I can see the answer. Whether or not I could write it down on an O level exam paper, I do not know. And that was always my great curse in these academic areas. I could somehow sometimes feel the answer. Couldn't always get it down on paper, but I can see it and feel it today. Great answer. Qualifications? I'm an aerodynamicist. I work at a car company. That's a cool job, isn't it? I mean, to be honest, don't take this the wrong way, but haven't you sort of come up with everything by now? Not everything, really. We're still working on new things. Don't. Isn't it a bit like working, being an aerodynamicist at a car company? Isn't it a bit like working at a razor company and just waiting another six months before someone says, hey, why don't we stick another razor on the Razr? And then, you know, then we could have a new marketing campaign. How can you make a car more aerodynamic than it already is? To be fair, wind tunnels and lots of computational analysis. Still a lot of work. Incremental improvement. Lovely answer. How many aerodynamicists are there roughly, working in the UK at the moment? In my company alone, there's about 20 and a bigger team. Well, you just talked yourself out of a ray Liotta, but you still get a round of applause and you also get credit for your honesty. Thank you. Is there something that people say to you when they find out what your job is that is really stupid, but happens all the time. Have you thought of if I just blow wind at things? Yeah, I was thinking of, like, when, you know, have you ever thought of doing this? You tell someone you've got insomnia and they say, have you tried counting sheep? And you go, no. Never thought of trying that. The most obvious flipping thing in the history of insomnia, working aerodynamics. Have you ever thought of, I don't know, greasing up the chassis or something? Anyway, I'm not quite sure why I went there. 1256 at time, Lauren, is annealing. Question or answer, Lauren. It's a bit of a spanish inquisition type thing. I think you mean stewards inquiry. But it depends how. It depends how aggressive. It depends. I'll tell you what, Lauren, I wasn't expecting the Spanish Inquisition. The spanish inquisition came along because I went on holiday, Scotland, as I go on, then what it was called. Yes. So with the maps, it's just sort of. Right. It was who was looking at them. However, the reason why the UK became the center of all the maps, you see, is because essentially, when there was more trade and we had the empire, and there was lots of trading through ships, people needed to standardize their maps where possible, so they can collaborate with other people, other ships and sailors in other countries. Because we're such a big empire, we had a lot of. There's a lot of countries using our version of the map. And so it was. And we had the political power and so I don't think this counts. It's because the Greenwich. It's because the longitude and latitude meets in Greenwich. It's because of the Greenwich meridian. That's just arbitrary. It could have been chosen to be anywhere. No, I know, but the fact that it was chosen to be there is the reason why it's in the middle of the map. But we're both right. But this is certainly not the Spanish Inquisition. No one ever said we're both right in the Spanish Inquisition. It would have been over in a heartbeat. I suppose the bit where you're not correct, is it not that it wouldn't be different across the world just because he was looking at it? Because it was. No, we established that. I'm feeling really sort of unkind now. We did establish I was wrong at first, but I corrected myself in the course of the conversation and became correct. Okay, well, anyway, regardless, to add to your answer, then there was. Well, obviously the reason why they needed maps that were standardized was so that everybody around the world would be sort of following the same map. But I'm going to give you a round of applause, but I'll be honest with you, Lauren, it's quite charitable squeezing one more. Roderick's in Glasgow. Question or answer? Roderick. Oh, it's an answer, I think James, you've got 20 seconds. Make it count. Right. Beaches are made up of sand, obviously, but the particles of the sand on a volcanic island could be from the rocks themselves. And they would tend to be dark. Yes, because pyroxene and olivine in the carnivorocks in St Lucia are dark coloured, whereas some of the beaches would be dominated by shell fragments and little particles of shells and they are white. That will do. Qualifications. I'm a geologist. I work at the University of Glasgow. That do very nicely. Roderick, have a round of applause. Just a great work. Just the home counties, was it that's left. And I thought that would be an easy one. Well, well, well, well. That's why it's a mystery. That's it from me for another day. I wasn't expecting the spanish inquisition. We'll do it again tomorrow from ten. The next voice you will hear on LBC belongs to magic Nawas.