High calibre mysteries

This is LBC from global leading Britain's conversation mystery hour with James O'Brien. It is four minutes after twelve and you are listening to James O'Brien on LBC. Mystery Hour is upon us. Your weekly opportunity to achieve the sort of satisfaction not ordinarily available anywhere else on your radio dial. I'm a bit dazed, I've got to be honest with you. I feel that the political milestrom in which we find ourselves has buffeted me and battered me a bit. So I'm particularly gleeful and grateful to be wading into the sillier end or the shallower end of our time together. But it remains a serious matter, of course, because there is a prize up for grabs. There is a brand spanking new box fresh mystery hour board game waiting for whoever is lucky enough to make my favourite or clever enough to make my favourite contribution to this week's game. You can get the full terms and conditions for that@lbc.net. But in the meantime, if you're not familiar with this feature, I think you're in for a bit of a pleasant surprise. I do, however, have something a bit strange to say first, and this is as much to my colleagues as it is to you. I'm expecting quite an important phone call from the passport office and they keep ringing me while I'm on air and they never ring back in the afternoon when I'm not on air. And therefore, if they ring in the next hour, I'm going to play you a clip of Max Hastings talking to Andrew Marr last night while I answer the phone to the passport office and deal with it with a deeply important matter. So can my colleagues just confirm that they've understood that I have said that if they ring, we'll play the Andrew Marr Max Hastings clip from last night, because it's really good. How long is it? Can we double check? It's only two minutes, 25. But in the course of that, I should be able to at least sort of make some sort of progress with the passport office. So there we go. Just give you a quick heads up about that. Of course, now that I've actually put in this very professional plan b, there's no way they've wronged me every day this week. And I just watch ringing in front of me while talking to you, thinking, I need to talk to you. I need to talk to you. I don't know what to do. But anyway, there we go. Six minutes after tossing. Should we just crack on? I think we should. Matt's in Norfolk. How do I pronounce that. Acle. Acle. Matt's in Acle. Acle. Where's Acle? In between Norwich and Yarmouth. But we have northern Yarmouth there. Okay. I like Yarmouth. It's a much maligned corner of the country. Great Yarmouth. It has its moments. I mean, it's a lovely beach walk. If you go and park near where that weird football golf game is and then walk down onto the beach from there, it's lovely. But I grant you some of the. Some of the other bits are a little bit, um. A little bit tired, aren't they? Yes. Question or answer. Right. Isn't. It's a question. And I hope you, with all your experience in media, can answer it. Yes. Why, on every single news bulletin, no matter what station you listen to or you watch, right. When they talk about the financial markets, why do they use the term and the phrase a short time ago in the city? It's never five minutes ago, it's never a certain time. It's always a short time ago in the city. Why that phrase? I don't think it's a mystery, is it? I think. I mean, they can't. Well, they can't be too specific. Good point. They can't be too specific because, you know, the game changes. Something might make its way up the bulletin. You might have originally planned to do the story third, at which point you'd have last checked the numbers four minutes ago, but you're going to do it first, in which case the numbers are only two minutes old. Or you might do it fifth, in which case the numbers would be six minutes old. So why not a specific time then? Why not time? I've told you. Oh, you mean like at 09:04 today? Exactly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know, really. I mean, that's what I mean by I don't know whether it's a mystery or not. It might just be a convention. Also, they're checking it. I mean, it's quite hard to change auto queue. No, it is. It's quite. I mean, genuinely is quite hard to change auto queue. You can't read the news on the telly without auto queue. It's quite hard to change it. And it's incredibly dangerous to change it mid bulletin. You can't go faffing about with the auto queue, Matt. Anything could happen. You could end up pausing as long as Liz Truss. It sounded like a Harold pin to play. If you're waiting for the. Waiting for the. Waiting for the auto queue to catch up. So saying a short time ago gives you a bit of wiggle room, I think. I'm not sure anything could be that bad, to be honest. You're not sure what? I'm not sure anything to be as bad as her, to be honest. No. I hear you. Probably most people would be able to cope with a changing auto queue without pausing for as long as Liz Truss does in the course of a perfectly normal interview. But I'll put it on the board. But I don't think you're going to achieve satisfaction. Fair enough. Well, I'll take your answer as. Take it for now. I'm not going to take a round of applause at the moment because we'll wait for someone who actually writes the bullies to tell us. We could possibly even get Simon Conway or Holly Harris involved in this, David, but might not even have noticed it. Thank you, Matt. In Acle. I've never heard of Acre. I thought I knew my way around that part of Norfolk. Really? Well, is it tiny acle, Matt? It's a little market town. Or market. It's a market town. How many pubs? Two. Okay. Yeah, all right. I think three pubs and above. I'd be familiar with it when we're in that particular corner of Norfolk. But a single pub? No guarantees. Thank you, mate. Samantha's in Harrow. Samantha, question or answer? It's a question, James. Carry on. Hi. This is very important. Just like your passport. Question. Aluminium foil. Yes, aluminium foil. When you have like cooking aluminium foil on a roll, it has a shiny side and a matte side. And which is the right side and why are they two different? The right side for what? For using it. So let's imagine a salmon steak, shall we, Sam? Yeah, Sam's salmon, we could call it. Exactly. If you are wrapping up a salmon steak before baking it in the oven with a. With a little sprinkle of oil and perhaps a slice of lemon, bit of salt and pepper. What. What should be on the outside, the shiny bit or the matte bit? Yeah. And there's no instructions on any of the boxes? No, I don't. Well, I presume it doesn't matter much. I don't think it matters much. But then why are they different? Why is one shiny and why is one matte? And I was all, that's a man. That's the manufacturing process, madam. No, but then there must be a right and wrong side. Why? But they can't both be the same because they're obviously different. They can. It's a manufacturing process that creates a matte side and a reflective side. That's how it happens. Right way or wrong way. Why must there be? Why must there be? Well, it's the same on. I've noticed on the cheese spread when you have the foil lit seal. Yeah. It's got a shiny side and a non shiny side. Yeah, but that doesn't mean that there's a right side and a wrong side. That just means there's a shiny side. Why must there? Why is this insistence that there must be? Why are they in base, not shiny or base, not matte? That's because of the manufacturing process. What I don't understand. Well, because they're made on big wheels, so the bit that's touching the wheel is going to be shinier than the bit that isn't. But then surely big hot wheels. Then the instructions on the box should, of the cooking foil should say, make sure the shiny side is outside. But why? It makes no difference. Well, then that doesn't make sense. It does. It makes perfect sense. The shiny side and the matte. I know nothing, by the way, I could be completely wrong. I apologize for my slightly robust. Hang on. I haven't finished telling you what I've made up yet. The shiny side and the matte side is a consequence of the production process, which almost certainly involves big hot wheels and melty metal. Right. And it has no bearing whatsoever upon the actual efficacy of the finished foil product. Therefore, ergo, Sam can wrap her salmon either with the shiny side out or the shiny side in, and it will have no bearing whatsoever upon the cooking process. Thank you very much. I've just realized I could have done an experiment and done two salmons. Two salmons. I think salmon. You'd need something better than, say, because salmon. It would be very hard to detect much difference, wouldn't it? With a 20 minutes salmon bait, you'd need. I'm not that expert cook. Listen, I think that I'm right, but there must be a reason. There must be a reason. There is. It's the production process. I don't think it is. But what is it, then? I think it's just one side is the right side and the other side is the wrong side, and they don't tell us which. Okay, well, you're clinging to that. This is a bit like dealing with infowars. You're just refusing to acknowledge any possibility that you might be wrong. It's just strange that there's a shiny side and a mat side. Someone's just texting me to say. Someone's just texting me to say, you were wrong about this. Last time the question was asked. James as well, so that doesn't bother. That might have been the last question. What was the last question? Short time ago. Okay, so that. That plays well. That looks. Looking good for you now, Sam. It's looking good for you now. I'll put. I'll put the question on my salmon. To be done correctly. I don't think it's going to make any difference to your salmon, but I will try and find out for you. I will. I will endeavor to. No, thank you very much. Foil. Right side or wrong side? Shiny side or matte side? 1213 is the time. Paul's in Colchester. Paul, question or answer? Hello, James. Why do we. Hello? Why do we say things are old? As in, it's a funny old game? It was a funny old. It's funny old weather. Wait there. Who put this through? Which one have you put this through? Sorry, Paul, I'm just. I'm just doing a little bit of team management. What funny old game. Why do we say. Why do we say things are old when we describing things? He gave me a funny old look. I don't know. No, neither do I. No, I know, but I don't think it's a question. Don't you know? Fair enough. No, I mean, I feel bad now. I mean, you know, they put you through like the first fella as well, short time ago. What was that? Well. Oh, I mean, we do say old in lots of context. Well, you do know what it means. I mean, in one sense, it's obviously a way to convey the fact that this is a long established trope. So it's a funny old game. Oh, football, eh? It's a funny old game. You've watched so much football over the years that you've been led to the conclusion that it's a funny old game. Therefore it's an old game. It's not just a funny game. Funny old weather. Well, because I think. I don't. I've never heard anyone say that. Weather forecasters say it. They do not. This is going to be, I have heard, can't be dealing in old weather. What use is that to everybody? They've got to give you the new weather, haven't they? It's a forecast, yes. So why do they say it's old weather? They do say that. I suppose the same thing applies, doesn't it? They've watched the weather for a long time. They've realized it's an unpredictable old business, even though their job is to predict it. And therefore they've concluded that it's a funny old business. The funny old weather. Okay, well, maybe. I don't know. Well, sorry if it wasn't. Sorry if it's. No, you do not. Do not you apologize. Paul. That is not. That is not how this works. It is. You got through quality control. That's not your fault. That's the fault of quality control. Okay, why do we say old when we say things like funny old game or apparently funny old weather? Zero 345-606-0973 yeah, it's not vintage so far. This week's mystery. Is it 1216 is the time. Mystery hour on LBC with James O'Brien. Call zero 345-606-0973 it is 19 minutes after twelve. You're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. I'm not going to recap on the questions that are on the board so far because they're a bit rubbish, so I'll wait. Pete's in Brentwood. Pete. Pressures on now. Question or answer? I've got a question for you, James. Yes. How do toenails, or indeed fingernails, grow back when they've been removed completely? Why wouldn't they? Well, I know they do. I want to know, how do they. Mine? Yeah. And I just can't see how it's coming back. Is there like a root or a follicle type thing and it grows from the base? How will it. What did you lose your toenail or your fingernail? I lost. I lost my big toenail. Oh. Did you drop something on it? I was trying to impress the kids. I just put up a basketball hoop in the garden and I said, hey, kids, look at this. And I went to slam dunk it. I was wearing a flip flop. Flip flopped my toe. Always flip flopped. Yeah. Stubbed my toe right into a brick step. Blood pouring out from underneath it. And over a period of two months, probably, it gradually sort of got looser and looser until a couple of days ago, I had to pull it off. Oh, that should have been a warning about that. It should not have gone there. I was not expecting that. Was there a lot of blood at the time? Yes. So the kids didn't laugh then? No, no, no. I went down in that estimation. If it wasn't for the blood, they'd have been having hysterics, I imagine, wouldn't they? But the blood sort of changes the picture. I've been watching old episodes of outnumbered, which I highly recommend to anybody who wants a proper belly laugh on a regular basis. Oh, that is great. So if the whole thing came out, what has the. What's the new one grown from, as it were. It's a better question than I thought at the moment. It's just like. I don't get too graphic. It's just like, a bit late for that. Yeah. So I'll just go all in there. It's sort of lumpy, harder than skin, but still a bit soft. But it's coming through and you keep it. Nothing at the moment, apart from this. Well, how do you know it's gonna grow back? Well, someone who lost one has told me that theirs grew back. Was that a big toenail? That was a big toenail. All right, so it does. It does happen, but I just can't see how it's going to happen. So you pull a hair out and you get the roots. Then the hair would not grow back. We imagine hair and toenails are made of the same stuff, aren't they? They're both made of keratin. I remember that from school. Um. All right, that was pretty gross, Pete, to be honest. You should have given me a quick. No, it can't be helped. It's all down to quality control. This should come with a trigger warning, really, that kind of contribution. So, what, how come it grows back? I mean, it's. It's. It's a fairly straightforward question. I didn't realize toes could cringe, but judging by my inbox at the moment, toes up and down the country have just gone. Yeah, Steve's in Swindon. Steve, question or answer? Got a question, please, James. Carry on, Steve. Why is a tea towel called a tea towel? Well, we need to distinguish it from other towels, don't we? If a wide tea towel, because it's what you have it with your tea. Obviously you have it in your breakfast as well. You do your breakfast. Not necessarily. You're thinking now as a tea towel is something to dry up with. Yeah, I think that might be your first mistake, Steve. I think of a tea towel as being something that goes over the teapot. That's a tea cozy tea towel. And you're from the midlands. Is that what they call them in Swindon? Swindon. I'll try and find out. Why is a tea towel called a tea towel? Why is it. Why is a tea towel called a tea towel? Because. Yeah, all right, you're on. I mean, it might be. I can't believe I've never thought about that before. I shall find out. I just thought of it the other day. I shall find out. Why can you never find one when you want one? Is another question that we could. Where do they go? They're up. Where the hell do they go? Steve? I shall do my best. Why do we call a tea towel a tea towel? How does a toenail grow back when the whole thing has been removed? Why do we say old in the context of funny old game or funny old weather foil? Is there a good side and a bad side, as in, should you be wrapping stuff a certain way to maximize cooking efficiency? And why do news readers say a short time ago, when they're talking about markets or currencies or matters fiscal? Jones in Potter's bar. Joan, question or answer? Question, Joan. Carry on, Joan. Hi. Thank you. Right, a candle. If you light a candle in a jar. Yankee candle, whatever. Where does the wax go once it's all gone? Does it go in the air? Do we breathe it in? I don't know where it goes. Is it a full moon, Mikey? At the moment. Is it a full moon, Mikey? At the moment? You know why I'm not. I'm just asking. Mikey. I'll be back with you in a minute, John. Is it a full moon? Is it a full moon at the moment? Is it? It is. Is it? I think it might be. Okay. Um. Well, where does wood go? Or coal or charcoal up the chimney? I don't know. Into the ETH? Into the atmosphere. Into the atmosphere. It's like. Think of the wax as a fuel. Where does petrol go? Okay, so we just breathe it all in. There's a chemical reaction that breaks it down into. Into gases which float away. Okay. Yeah. Right. Okay. Are you sure? I don't know, I'm just thinking of all this. Well, everything that burns, it's combustion. It's the same thing, isn't it? It's just. It's a chemical reaction. Yeah. Okay, so you'll probably get some water, which will go away as steam. You might get some, I don't know, some carbon dioxide. With petrol you get nitrous dioxide. There's all sorts of business going on, but they're solid, is being burnt. And just like with wood, you have a bit of ash left, you'll have a bit of candle wax left at the end, but most of it is going to have just. Is it sublimated? Is it sublimated, is that the word? When a solid turns into a gas? Nor have I, but it's. Anyway, it's combusted, is what it's done. Combusted. Okey dokey. So if you burn a lot of candles in your house, it doesn't matter because it just evaporates into the air. Well, no, no, I mean, it depends how many candles you wouldn't, you know, with the power cuts coming and things like that. You probably. Yeah, you'd need some ventilation, I'd imagine, if you had loads going like a sort of medieval banquet or something like that. But I don't think that's going to be much of an issue in Potter's bar in the near to middle distance. Joan. Yeah, I don't think so. All right. Okay. You got it? Yeah. You happy, though? Are you sure? I don't know. What do you mean? Not really where it goes. All right, let me try. It's. Well, I know wood solid, but if you're putting it in the fire, it just. It goes. The wax goes. What if it's not? What if it's not in a fireplace? What if you've accidentally set fire to some wood in the middle of the sitting room floor like a candle? Where does it. Yeah, but where does it go? Then it burns everything. Oh, no. All right, the candle wax. The candle wax goes to the same place in the sky that the petrol, the wood and the coal goes to. Okay. All right, all right. So we're doing. In the ozone layer. I'm taking. I can't. I'm taking a round of applause. Now, Joan, my work here is done, whether you realize it or not. Thank you. Thank you. Four nights ago, apparently, the full moon. That's near enough, isn't it? You can tell by the questions. Thank you, Joe. Have a good day. Anthony is in tring. Question or answer, Anthony. It's a question. James, listen, I'm thrilled to talk to you. I love your books and I love your show. Bless you. Thank you. And I'm fine. I'm finally on your radio station, but not from one of your discussions. But I've got a question, and it's maybe a bit of a theme that we're just talking about. Where do things go? Because. Well, listen to this one. Not long ago, I had some new tires fitted. Oh, yeah. And. Yeah. So obviously your tires have gone down. About a centimeter of rubber has disappeared. And there's millions of cars on the road, and I'm wondering, where has that rubber gone? So, yeah, it's not on the side of the road, because I've looked. Well, it might be, though. It isn't, but it will be. There's dust, isn't there? It could be a dust. It's going to be dust. But can you imagine how much rubber we're talking about here? Yes. And then it rains, of course. And it rains and it gets washed down the drains and it all disappears. That's why roads are, you know, irrigated or whatever the word is. Do you know what I feel like? Come on, tell me. What do you feel like? This mystery hour today. I feel like I'm. I feel like everyone else is stoned and I'm not. I can't hear you. Well, I didn't say anything. I'd finished. Oh, you see what I mean? You see what I mean? What do you mean? I just. The questions are all thematically similar, aren't they? I feel like this might have been planned in advance. Well, no, I think. I think you're. Where does all the candle wax go? And then I express a bit of dissatisfaction with that question. And up next, where does all the tie off rubber go? But, James, your staff wronged me to tell me to ask the question. They did not. No, I know they didn't. Conspiracy theories were in the last hour. Alex Jones on line four, asking, oh, my days. All right, where does all that. I mean, it obviously goes to where I said it goes. It can't possibly go anywhere else. It's like. It's like Jones candle wax, isn't it? You eliminate the impossible and whatever you're left with, it must be the truth, so that it comes off in small amounts. It gets. I get. So when there are no drains around, so we must find it. The wind, it blows away. It's in such tiny particles, isn't it? It's in such tiny quantities that the soldiers. Gray. And just tweeting me, you're overlooking the possibility of candle heaven. So it goes to tire rubber heaven and it goes with all the. With all the tire rubber angels to look after it. Oh, dear. Okay, I'll put it on the lid. I mean, where else could it go? If it doesn't just get caught up in the general atmosphere? Well, listen, I'm asking a question. I've got a q and a tonight at the bewdly festival. I hope the questions are better than this. I tell you, otherwise it's going to be trouble. 12:30 is the time. Amelia Cox is here now with your headlines. This is LBC Mystery hour with James O'Brien. Call zero three four five six, zero six zero nine seven three. Twelve. Thirty four is the time. A selection of questions awaiting answers. Questions of exceptional quality and class. Why do news readers say that? You know, Matt, mate, when you rang in, if you'd said to me this would be the best question you get for half an hour, I'd have laughed in your face. But here we are. Why do newsreaders say a short time ago when referencing the, could we tell Amelia Cox she's allowed to answer this question? I'm not going to get her again. Oh, next time I throw to her, it'll be Sheila will be doing it, not me, but the news readers, colleagues, friends, Romans are allowed to answer this question. Why is the foil shiny on one side and matte on the other? And, you know, subsequent questions. This is probably my favourite question. Why do we say old, as in funny old game or funny old weather? Toenails. How do toenails grow back when the whole thing has been removed? Why do we call tea towels tea tales? Where does candle wax go? I could give myself a round of applause for that. But, you know. And where does tire rubber go? Can we make. Can we just agree there'll be no more questions about why do we say dot dot dot and where does something go? Can we agree on that now? Thank you. Maybe have that as a permanent rule. Could we. One a week. One a week maximum. Why do we say and where does the. Did it go? Yeah. This is not a very good time to plug the board game, really, either, is it? I think I. There is a board game and it's actually brilliant. But if you're tuning into mystery hour for the first time today, you're gonna have to take my word for it. You can. You can get ahold of it at Mysteryhour dot co dot Uk. Even get a penny change out of the 20 pound note. It's superb. Christmas is coming as well. People are gonna get it on your Christmas lists, children. I'll make sure Santa has a. Has a capacious supply. Sand. There is a warehouse in Lapland awaiting delivery of mystery hour. Christmas is coming. Something for your dad, something for your mum, something for your auntie, something for everybody. 1236 is the time. Jeff's in Southport. Geoff, question or answer? It's an answer. Carry on. Well, after years of screaming answers at the radio when you're on. Yes, I've ended up with the answer to the toenail. Oh, sensational. The best that they can come up with through personal experience. Toenails do grow back and I've had mine surgically removed about four times until they take the nail bed off, which is part of the bone. And when they take that off, the nail never grows back again. So as long. As long as the nail bed is there, the toenail will grow, it'll keep on coming back. And unfortunately, when they do that. And you? I was a young ladder probably about 1718 with the nail removed on. All of it on a beach. Trust me, your big toe doesn't look like a big toe anymore. It looks more like an appendage that shouldn't be on your toe. It can be quite embarrassing. Yeah. What was your condition, if you don't mind me asking? What was your. It was, it was. It was the old fashioned thing, growing, Tony, was it? Four times, mate. I'd have thought after one you'd have been on your toes. Sorry, I thought you'd have been on guard. A bit more about the prospect of it, I think. I think because of it was being a fashion icon. Platforms. I had one pair of platforms when I was about 14 year old and it was. It was either them that did it or me. Birmingham bag. I'm not quite sure. Oh, yes. Winkle pickers. Gosh. Yeah. All right, you're on. I like it. No, so, I mean, and if it's gone as a result of someone dropping something on it, then the nail bed will be safe? The nail bed will be safe, yeah. It's just a bit of the bone on the end of the toe. With a nail, grow small. If they scrape that off or take that off, that's it. The nail will never come back again. Fantastic. If you just pull it, pull the nail out, it will come back again and again. Round of applause for Jeff and a bit wincy there. I'm glad we've done away with that one, mate, and good luck to you. What a debut. I look forward to your further contributions to the program. Satisfaction for Pete and a round of applause for Jeff Allen's in Amersham. Alan, question or answer? Try and answer, James. Carry on. Alan, good morning to you. Hello. It's an answer to the aluminium foil question. Oh, yes. Why is one side matte and the other side shiny in the manufacture? The aluminium is rolled between rollers to make it thinner and it's wound onto spools. And when they get down to the thickness they need, close to what they need for the foil, it's very difficult to roll it any thinner. So what they do is they put two strips together and roll the two of them together. The rolls are shiny and the shiny side is the side that's in contact with the rolls. And when they separate the two strips into two individual coils, the bit in the middle where the two bits of metal were in contact is the mat side, because it doesn't have the contact with the shiny rolls. So that would be the outer bit. When it's rolled, the matte side is the. Is the bit in between, in the middle of the sandwich. You imagine rolling as a sandwich, two bits of aluminium, and then peeling them apart where they peel them apart in the middle. It's the matte side, of course, the outside. See, I see, I see, I see. So they put the two sheets together for the production process and then separate them after. So I was basically. I mean, are the rollers hot? No. And the metal is not melting aluminium hot when it's very thick because it's much more efficient. But when you start getting down to foil, you've got to have it solid. It has to be cold. So apart from the bit warm in the mill, that's. Of course it does. It is basically a cold, rolling process. And so I was. I was right. But accidentally right, because it's got nothing to do with hot wheels or melty metal, but it has got everything to do with what comes right back in the beginning. Yeah, yeah. So it's all about what comes into contact with the roller. That's right, yeah. The shiny side is in contact with the roller and the. The mat side is where two rollers. Okay, so it's like a mangle. Yeah. That's the bit I missed. I had it like a mangle. Yeah, it's like a mangle. Good analogy. Thank you, mate. Yeah. The other thing is, I think she asked about which side was. Was best. There's no recommendation. Get in. As a. As a kind of somebody who's worked on surface technology. I would say that the rough side is more likely to stick to something than the shiny side. So if you want a salmon steak on it and you don't want. Put the shiny on the inside, put the shiny side away from the surface of the fish. The. There is such a thing as non stick foil, but we're not talking about that today. Yeah, there is non stick foil. We're not talking. We're not talking about that today. We're not talking. What are your qualifications, Alan? Although I think I know already, I worked for a long time in the aluminium industry and also worked with aluminium foil manufacturer. I can't say fairer than that. Big, big, big round of applause for Alan, please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And that has single handedly rescued this week's mystery hour. The quality of that answer, the detail and the qualifications combining to create a moment of mystery hour. Magic 1241 is the time. And I am right. If Sam is not satisfied with that, then she's not allowed to listen to mister for a month. All right. Jay's in Coventry. Jay, question or answer? It's a question. Jay's. Carry on, Jay. Okay, so why, when you have a mint or a strong mint and you drink cold water afterwards, why does the water seem a lot colder? I know this. It's menthol, isn't it? I think it's something to do with a menthol. It's not just water. What does that affect you? How does that affect you differently? It's not just water. Your mouth feels cooler when you eat a mint. Your whole mouth, everything is cool. Your mouth feels cooler in the same way that if you eat a chilli, your mouth feels hotter. You don't have to drink water to get the effects of a chilli kicking around your gob. It spreads it around a bit. Maybe because the molecules that are activating, the receptors are in there. Which receptors are those? You. They're your ph 24s, aren't they? Yeah, I think. I thought it's ph 23s. No, 24s, mate. 2023 are the other ones. Oh, yeah, that's the chili's ones, not the mental. I am right. Although I made up the ph 24 element of it, but the. Really? Yeah, no, I did. I know. Hard to believe I am right, but you are not obviously, going to be satisfied with my meanderings. You want to hear from someone who explains it in slightly more scientifically literate terms? Somebody knows. Yeah, yeah. Well, no, I know. I know, but I can't explain it in a way that conveys successfully that I know. Okay. That's not the same as not knowing, Jay. I think. I think it is. No, it's not. No, no, no, no. Because I know, but I cannot convey what I know in a way that successfully establishes that I know. Yeah. Okay. That makes perfect sense. Thank you, Jake. Yes. Should we see if there's anyone who does know the answer? No, no, no. We'll see if there's anybody who does know and they can successfully convey that they know in a way that demonstrates that they know. That's what we're actually looking for, Jay. Okay. I should have asked where the mint goes. Where does all the mintiness go when you've eaten a mint? Don't. Don't ask that. Don't know. Not funny. Don't put the phone down. Don't ring that. Thank you. Jay. Craig's in Batley. Craig. Question or answer? Question, please. Go on. Have you or have you ever seen a baby pigeon? Are you winding. You are all right. This is just winding me up, genuinely. It's not your fault. No, I know, I know, I know. I'm sorry. I have, I have, I have. I saw one the other day. Where? Honestly? Outside KFC in Brentford. Are you sure? Absolutely positive. Because there's some net they're nesting up above on the canopy and for reasons I wasn't party to, one fell out and this lovely bloke had picked it up and he was looking after it and they were trying to work out, using KFC furniture, whether or not he could get back up in order to put the baby pigeon back in what was clearly the pigeon's nest, I think, to take your questions, I mean, that is actually. I'll take a round of applause for that. That's bloody definitive. Thank you. I think that they must be. They must grow very, very quickly. That must be part. That must be part of it. And they nest quite carefully in order to avoid predators. They probably get. A magpie would go for a baby pigeon, probably. So they grow very quickly, they reach adolescence and they look like a grown up pigeon, very quickly. And when, for the small amount of time that they're actually in the nest, they're very carefully hidden away to avoid predators. I'll give you that one. I'll take another round of applause. Ah, you see, trying to sabotage. Yeah. Thank you, Craig. Good work, mate. 1245 is the time. Mystery hour with James O'Brien. This is LBC. Can't do this every week. I can't rely on my comedy chops to rescue an appalling selection of questions and turn it into radio gold. All right, back to Mister chair Roberts in Uddingston in Glasgow. Robert, question or answer? That's a question. James. Carry on. What ship? As a slice of pizza. It's a triangle. No, a triangle's got three sides. So a shape of pizza's got a curve at the bottom. Yeah. It's still a side. No, but it's. It's got to be three straight lines to be a triangle. Well, then it's a triangular prism. It is, it is. It's a triangular prism. What's your qualification? Say again? What's your qualifications? Genius. I know what a triangle is and I know what a prism is, and I'm 99.9% confident that the two con, the two geometrical concepts can be combined to create a triangular prism, which would be a three would. Yeah. So, yeah, yeah. I'm not buying the James. Really? No. All right, well, I mean, it's a great phrase. Well, you're not going to get anything better than that, are you? Well, I would have hoped that somebody had put a name to the shape. I just did. No, that's a. That's a combination of two names, isn't it? All right, then. How about a flattened cone? No. Well, a cone is a three dimensional shape. You know, flattened it. So it's a slice of pizza. Actually, you come to think it's a flattened cone? It's a flattened cone. I'm not buying it, James. All right, I think I know the answer, but only because someone sent it to me, so we're quite short of time. Right, okay. Do you want it? I'm cheating. I'm cheating. So I can't have a round of applause for this? So you. So you looked it up? No, I haven't looked it up. But ten people. I mean, sometimes my inbox. I get such repetition in my inbox that I think it must be true. Right, okay. Circular. It's. It's a circular sector. Oh, that's disappointing. It's not great, is it? But I don't know what you were expecting. Someone said a teardrop. That's the kind of thing you were looking for, isn't it? You were looking for a bit. Something a bit romantic. Yeah. Something with a kind of specific name. You know, I still think. I still think it's a triangular prism, right? But circular sector has come in a lot. Someone's written it's a sector. You prune. Prune. And a triangular prism is more like a piece of toblerone. It's nothing like a pizza. The circular sector. Adrian says circular sector. Right. So, circuit. You can't blame me if you don't like the answer. It's blooming Truman. It's just as if I was hoping to learn my new words or a new shape, but, yeah, but you have. You didn't realize those two words could go together before, so you've learned a new phrase? Yeah, yeah. Circular. Circular sector. Circular sector. A round of applause for everyone. Texting in. Thank you, Jim. No, thank you, Robert. Circular. No, you wanted something pithier. I know what you mean. You want. You wanted, like, a phrase you hadn't heard before, like a sort of, I don't know, a plea. A plea. A pleats. A pleatsa. What do you call a piece of pizza? What's the shape? It's a pizza. A pizza of pizza. David in Wallington. Question or answer? An answer. James. Tyre dust. Oh, marvelous. Carry on. It's a huge political issue across Europe at the moment, actually, where the stuff goes and how to manage it. Yeah, yeah, big deal. I was on a seminar in Brussels earlier on this week, and that was the first session of the whole thing on the sustainable development goals. But to answer the question, some of it gets airborne, around about 10% by mass gets airborne, and around about 90% by mass ends up on the road. But it's not just rubber on the road, it's a combination of rubber and minerals, because the tyre rubber interacts with the road to become a mixture of rubber and minerals. And that could be either pure rubber or pure mineral. And that stuff gets washed to the gutters at the side of the road. You get a lot more of it around junctions, around traffic lights. Because people are breaking. Because people are breaking. Yeah, exactly right. Exactly right. Because the grip, the energy of braking or cornering translates into the production of that tire dust. And so you tend to get these hotspots, so called, around, about different bits of traffic. Makes perfect sense. Yeah. And that's microplastics, if you like. And that just gets washed away. Now bring it back to the EU, because is it the airborne bits? Who'd have thought that they were involved? It gets washed away and it ends up in sludge farms, sewage sludge, it ends up in fields, it ends up in all sorts of places. It ends up in oceans and rivers. Okay, so what's the environmental concern? The airborne stuff or the land borne stuff, or both? Both. Because the. I mean, if you go to the Pacific northwest of the USA, look up coho, salmon coho, they're being killed by this stuff. Oh, lord. Because it gets into the sea. Because it gets into the sea. It gets into rivers. In the sea. Yeah. And some nasty stuff called six PPD leeches out of it, and that becomes highly toxic, so called. Yeah, it's a really hot topic, actually. What is your business? Well, it leads me to my final question. What are your qualifications? I run a company called Tire Industry Research, and this is probably the maximum topic at the moment in the whole industry. I mean, how many people are in your line of work, roughly? Is it literally just you? Pretty much. Right. Do you listen to mister, how often? Or did someone alert you to this question? No, I listen to it every week, and every week I listen out for tire questions. And your business is actually called tire industry research, and it's basically just, you tie with an eye, not tire with an it, work with a y. Okay, I've got a problem, David. Go on. You know that Ray Liotta is obviously in your mind at the moment, and it's in my mind. Well, you gave me one before. So did I. Really? What was that? Was that about tyres as well? It was, yeah. Well, I don't. Okay, well, that solved that. I remember. There's no reason why you can't have two. I just feel that this week's mischievous. Been a bit. A bit nasty. No, I know what you're saying. So I just thought you might be yanking my champion. I think that when. No, I know you're not. And that's why I'm going to give you another Ray Liotta. I think you deserve it because, I mean, it's insane that you would be. I mean, I know that you listen regularly. I forgot that you'd answered before, but you're clearly not part of some elaborate hoax that's been undertaken today by my own colleagues. I wish the passport office had rung this week, I tell you, I thought I was banking on that. Can we have a radio to fert? I'm Ray Liotta and you're listening to James O'Brien on LBC. If you build it, they will come. Fantastic. And a round of applause as well. Well played, David. Great stuff. Keep up the good work. Chris is in Croydon. Chris, question or answer? It's an answer, James. It's an answer. Good. Carry on. It's an answer to your menthol making your mouth feel cold. Question. Yes. It's Prp mate, not ph 13. It's prp. I knew it was a p. I've got my peas. What? Trp. Trp mate. Trp mate? Yeah. T for Timothy. T for Timothy. That's right. T. All right. I got it all wrong, then. Yeah. It's a protein in your mouth called TrPM eight or TRP mate, and it gets activated. I thought you were calling me mate, but it is actually called TRP mate. Mate. It is, yeah. I knew you'd like it. I do, mate, yeah. So, yeah, they get activated when menthol's in your mouth and when you drink water, it just activates more of them, so it tricks your mouth into thinking it's cold. Do we know what the evolutionary purpose of it is? There actually isn't, no, it's. It's just another sense that we have as humans. Yeah. I like it. Qualifications. I'm a biomedical sciences graduate. There we go. Trp mate all day long. Round of applause, please, for Chris. Squeezing another. John's in new cross. Question or answer? Answer. Carry on. So it's nice to. Pizza called a sectar. Yeah. On a 2d plate it's called a sector. Yeah, it would be a sector. A sector prison. On a 3d plane with it. Yeah. But it's called a sector. It's got arc and two radii qualifications betrayed at the primary school teacher about six years ago, and the ten year old asked me. So I looked it up then and always remembered. Yeah, I'll do. Have a round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. And finally, Andrew in Stockport. Question or answer? It's an answer, James, for a short time ago question. Oh, good man. Go on. So the bulletin is written a short time before it's read out. So by the time the news reader gets to the studio and reads out the latest FTSE 100 share index figure, it might be out of date. Yes. But the question then needs to address why they don't say at 858 this morning. Because that just sounds silly, doesn't it? It does sound a bit daft, doesn't it? But it's a fairly. I suppose it covers you. And also, if you said five minutes ago, the FTSE share index was up 23 at 5972, you'd sound like you were reading out of date news. Yeah. So you just say a short time ago. And also, you can't be. They can't have you for a short time ago, if you said five minutes ago, someone actually checked and it was six minutes ago and it had been going everywhere because quasi Quateng was chancellor the exchequer, it was going up and down like a fiddler's elbow. You could get yourself into all sorts of bother. I used to read the news on the BBC and I got the figure off Sifax five minutes before the bulletin, walked up to the studio and read it out. That's perfect. Perfect qualifications as well. Final round of applause. I feel we saved it, thanks to Andrew and others. I feel we saved it this week. But I'm not giving out a board game. It was too rubbish. I'm not giving. Can I do. Can I do that? What do you think? I should give one out early for Scrooge, isn't it? Yeah, you're right. I don't know who to give it to. Do you know? I give it to. Yeah. Well, it has to be the Rayleighota guy, doesn't it? It has to be David. He gets. He gets the ball game. Thank you, shilling.